ITEM 2. DESCRIPTION OF PROPERTIES.
					Summary
Magnus is a mineral exploration company that specializes in identifying, acquiring and developing precious and base metal properties. Magnus’ objective is to develop a balanced global portfolio of early-to-advanced stage projects and is currently focused on gold projects in China and Africa. In China, the Company’s key mineral project is the Huidong Property, in which the Company holds a 90% interest, which interest is expected to increase when Magnus’ Modification Agreement with Team 209 (described above) is consummated. In Africa, the Company has a 100% interest in two mineral properties in Uganda, Mubende and Lugazi, and has rights to three other mineral properties in Uganda, Mwerusandu, Mitoma and Mashonga.
Properties in China
					Huidong Property
The following disclosure with respect to the Huidong Property is based on the technical report dated June 30, 2007 (the “Huidong Technical Report”) prepared by Steven R. McMullan, which is attached to this annual report as an exhibit.
Property Description and Location
The Huidong Property is located in Sichuan Province of the People’s Republic of China, approximately 270 km north of Kunming, the capital city of Yunnan Province in southern China. The closest major population centre to the Property is the city of Dongchuan, approximately 70 km southwest. The center of the Property is approximately located at Latitude 26° 32’ North and Longitude 103° 00’ East.
				The Property comprises one mineral exploration license covering an area of 82.39 square kilometers and has not been legally surveyed. The original exploration license for the Property was registered to Team 404 of the Yunnan Nuclear Industry, and was transferred to Team 209 before Magnus became involved with the Property. As part of the Huidong Agreement between Team 209 and Magnus, the exploration license was subsequently transferred into Long Teng Mining. The anniversary date of the exploration license is 27 July and is due for renewal in 2009 for an additional two year term.
				Apart from the terms of the Huidong Agreement and Modification Agreement described above, there are no additional royalties, back-in rights, payments or other agreements to which the Huidong Property is subject. The natural environmental legacy from historical and active artisanal mining activity is considered a minor liability attached to the Huidong Property. In addition, part of the Huidong Property is located within a designated forestry protection area, and regulated compensation payments and reclamation for degradation of forest and ground vegetation is required for any construction project, including road building and mining.
Geological Setting
The oldest rocks in the Huidong area are Meso-Proterozoic Huili Group (which correlates to the Kunyang Group in Yunnan) which occurs in an erosional window surrounded by Palaeozoic and Mesozoic strata. The Kunyang Group is mainly comprised of carbonaceous shales, argillites, phyillites, slates, carbonates and minor mafic volcanics. Unconformably overlying the Kunyang Group is the NeoProterozoic Zhengdan (Sinian) Group consisting of dolostone, sandstone and conglomerate.
				Undifferentiated Palaeozoic and Mezozoic rocks conformably overlie the Proterozoic, but are only seen in the northeast and northwest corners of the license area. Intrusive phases of the Emeishan in the form of gabbros and diabases also occur in the area, mostly in the form of dykes and small intrusive stocks that follow the dominant north to northwesterly structural tend.
				The Huidong Property is structurally very complex with four major (and locally two minor) episodes of overlapping structural deformation recognized. The western and eastern parts of the Property have fundamentally different tectonic grain to the central area; however all areas share similar tectonic evolution. The Sujialu, Laowangshan and Laoshuijing areas are characterised by north-south folds and similarly oriented reverse and thrust faults, whereas the Dingjiaping and Ganghai areas of these structures are oriented east-west.
Mineralization
The Huidong Property is in its initial stage of exploration. The knowledge of primary mineralization in the Property is limited to the gold and copper bearing veins and shear zones exploited by small scale artisanal miners in the Dingjiaping and Laowangshan areas.
Dingjiaping Prospect - Dingjiaping is located in the northwest part of the Huidong license, where artisanal mining has been previously active. As many as 61 adits from less than 10 m to 60 m length have been mined along narrow quartz-carbonate veins that are concordant with the bedding of the host rock. The quartz veins average 1 m thick and contain pyrite, some of which reportedly carry visible gold, explaining the presence of alluvial gold miners in a tributary of the Daqiao River draining the immediate area. Gold grades from grab samples from road cuts and adits returned values generally less than 0.5 g/t but in one vein from 0.21 to 6.18 g/t gold (“Au”).
Laowangshan Prospect - Laowangshan is located in the south-central part of the Huidong Property. The prospect is the site of several adits up to 280 m length driven along narrow quartz and sulphide veins generally trending E-W. The adits follow brecciated zones in limestone raging in width from less than 1m to 10 m and usually mineralized with pyrite, malachite, chalcopyrite and covellite. Gold values from grab samples range from 0.20 g/t to 5.0 g/t. Several scattered surface showings of malachite and chalcopyrite occur in the area with some samples showing visible gold. Some artisanal mining is currently active in the area with the recovery of copper ore and gold. Quartz carbonate veins and mineralized shear zones up to 10 m width occur near the contact between limestone and underlying phyllites. As at Dingjiaping, the deposits are concordant with the bedding. Gold panning is active in the main drainage channel in the immediate vicinity.
Ganhai Prospect - Ganhai is west of Laowangshan but is significant as it is not in a drainage channel. The Ganhai target has two mapped artisanal mining sites, and is a strong and consistent geochemical anomaly up to 280 ppb in outcrop chip samples and 180 ppb in soils. Gold anomalies correlate with Ag, Ni, Co, Fe, Sb, Mn, Bi.
Laoshuijing Prospect - Laoshuijing is located in the northeastern corner of the Huidong Property. Unlike Dingjiaping and Laowangshan, there is no evidence of current or historical artisanal mining activities, but the area has anomalous Au, copper (“Cu”) and arsenic (“As”) soil geochemical anomalies up to 438 ppb Au.
Exploration
Significant exploration results on the Huidong Property are as follows:
Soil Sampling
The original low density survey identified anomalies up to 848 ppb Au with 33 of 2,326 samples considered highly anomalous at greater than two standard deviations (approximately 50 ppb) above the mean. The infill soil sampling survey identified anomalies up to 300 ppb, and the detailed anomaly infill survey identified anomalies up to 3,014 ppb (3 ppm) Au and 28,000,000 ppb (2800 ppm) Cu.
				Four distinct anomaly groupings were identified from the soil surveys: Dingjiaping, Laowangshan, Ganhai and Laoshuijing. Interpretation of multi-element analyses indicates Au is generally correlated to Ag, Cu
				and As in all areas, with other element correlations depending on the underlying bedrock and soil profile development.
				Soil sampling at Laowangshan - Ganhai has identified six major geochemical anomalies with strong concentrations of gold and copper in soil up to 3 g/t gold and greater than 1% copper. These soil anomalies are the most extensive on the Huidong Property, covering an area of approximately six square kilometres.
				Soil sampling at Laoshuijing identified three peaks with up to 0.438 ppm Au and 984 ppm Cu in an anomalous area of approximately 1.5 kilometres squared. Soils at Dingjiaping identified four peaks up to 0.973 ppm Au and 28,000 ppm Cu in an anomalous area of approximately two kilometres squared.
Drilling
A total of 3749.78 m of diamond core drilling was completed in 2006 on the Huidong Property. Seven holes were completed in the Dingjiaping area and five in the Laoshuijing area:
				At Dingjiaping, six of the holes were located on the steeply south-dipping north limb of the Malutang syncline to explore for downward extensions of east-west gold-bearing shear zones mapped on road cuts and also of concordant quartz carbonate veins with copper and gold values in old adits driven by artisanal miners. All of the seven holes drilled in Dingjiaping encountered narrow vein and breccia zones within units of phyllites, sandstone, siltstone, shales and some carbonaceous units.
				At the Laoshuijing prospect where the two smaller XY-4 drill rigs were deployed, five holes were drilled mainly to investigate coincident strong IP chargeability and gold soil anomalies. The initial drill program has intersected: zones of strong alteration, bleaching and quartz-carbonate veining; zones of well developed sulphides mineralisation - mainly pyrite but with some chalcopyrite and arsenopyrite; and narrow gold-mineralized structures.
				The results of the drill program include:
				Hole Intersection Interval Gold
				Number From (m) To (m) (meter) (g/t)
				DJP-1-06 79.36 80.2 0.84 2.36
				DJP-2-06 51.62 53.55 1.93 0.63
				DJP-3-06 183.75 184.95 1.2 1.03
				DJP-6-06 100.3 107.7 7.4 0.45
				including 100.3 104.4 4.1 0.60
Mineral Resources, Mineral Reserves and Mining Operations
There are no current mineral resources or mineral reserves. No mining operations have been conducted on the Huidong Property.
Future Plans
According to the Huidong Technical Report, the Huidong Property is considered favourable for the discovery of significant Au-Cu mineralization. The exploration program conducted by Magnus is preliminary in nature, and has not investigated all of the known targets identified from geochemistry, geological mapping, artisanal mining and geophysics. In particular, the Laowangshan area which has the highest soil geochemical anomalies on the Property (3 g/t gold and >1% copper), previous mining activity, electro-magnetic (“EM”) conductors interpreted to represent graphitic fault/shear zones, and structural alignment with Boka (Huidong-Boka Fault) was not drill tested. Accordingly, the Huidong Technical Report recommends an additional work program, including detailed geophysics, geological mapping and 5,000 m of diamond drilling for an estimated total expenditure of US$800,000.
Properties in Uganda
					Lugazi, Mubende, Mitoma and Mwerusandu Properties
The following disclosure with respect to the Lugazi, Mubende, Mitoma and Mwerusandu Properties is based on the technical report dated May 15, 2007 (the “Uganda Technical Report”) prepared by Martin J. Taylor, which is attached to this annual report as an exhibit..
Property Description and Location
The Lugazi, Mubende, Mitoma and Mwerusandu Properties comprising approximately 3,115.19 sq. km. are located in southern and southwestern Uganda in East Africa. The properties are covered by valid exploration licenses, 20 in total.
				Map of Uganda Identifying Trend Lines and the Company’s Properties
Lugazi Property
The Lugazi Property is located some 50 km east of the capital Kampala in the Mukono district of southern Uganda, and is approximately centred at Latitude 0° 18’N and Longitude 32° 52’E. The Property consists of five exploration licenses covering an area of approximately 1,620.17 sq. km.
Mubende Property
The Mubende Property is located some 100 km west-northwest of the capital Kampala in the Mubende and Kiboga administrative districts of south-central Uganda. The Property is approximately centred at Latitude 0° 34’N and Longitude 31° 46’E, and consists of three exploration licenses covering approximately 851.20 sq. km.
Mitoma Property
The Mitoma Property is located some 320 km southwest of the capital Kampala in the Bushenyi district of south-western Uganda. The Property is approximately centred at Latitude 0° 35’S and Longitude 30° 05’E. The property consists of eight exploration licenses covering an area of 438.49 sq. km.
Mwerusandu Property
The Mwerusandu Property is located some 380 km southwest of the capital Kampala in the Ntungamo district of south-western Uganda. The Property is approximately centred at Latitude 1° 00’S and Longitude 30° 10’E. The property consists of four Exploration Licenses covering an area of 205.33 sq. km.
Geological Setting
The Archaean Ugandan Craton is part of the African Plate, a large area of continental crust consisting of the accretion of small cratons (e.g. Uganda, Tanzania) welded together by Proterozoic mobile belts. Much of northern and central Uganda is underlain by Archaean basement gneisses. The southwest part of the country, including the exploration licenses of Magnus, is largely underlain by Proterozoic sediments, minor volcanics and intrusive granites. Major rift faulting commenced in the Tertiary and continued to the present. Tertiary volcanism of mafic to intermediate composition and minor carbonatites also occurred. This includes the formation of large shield volcanoes, the most prominent in Uganda being Mt. Elgon on the Kenyan border. Great thicknesses of Tertiary to Recent sediments fill the fault valleys, especially along the Western, or Albertine, Rift in western Uganda.
				Precambrian rocks underlie two-thirds of Uganda. Archaean rocks are exposed in the southeast where they are part of the extensive granite-greenstone terrane of the Tanzanian Craton. Three major Proterozoic belts underlie central and west Uganda: the Paleoproterozoic Buganda-Toro metasediments, the Mesoproterozoic Karagwe-Ankolean (Kibaran) Belt in the southwest of the country and Neoproterozoic Pan-African rocks. The Neoproterozoic includes the Bunyoro Series with tillites and argillites, and the undeformed shallow water sediments of the Bukoban Supergroup. Tertiary to Recent sediments have filled parts of the down-faulted Western Rift. Tertiary carbonatites and Cenozoic volcanics are related to rift activities and occur along the eastern and western borders of the country.
Mineralization
Lugazi Property
The style of gold mineralization at the Lugazi area is associated with a belt of sedimentary rocks comprising the Paleoproterozoic Buganda-Toro system, and surrounding granite gneisses. A thermal aureole granite (“TAG”) model is being used in an attempt to understand the mineralization where an Intrusion Related Gold system is expected along with skarn and pegmatite host rocks.
Mubende Property
The style of gold mineralization at the Mubende area is interpreted by the Company as being associated with the roof zones of large batholiths such as the Singo Granite. Greisen alteration has been identified by reconnaissance exploration and an Intrusion Related Gold (“IRG”) system is being modeled, with gold mineralization in disseminated and quartz stockwork styles in the upper roof zones of granites, or in large scale fault zones along the flanks of the intrusions. Tungsten and gold occurrences have been identified on the Singo granites and in surrounding meta-sediments.
Mitoma Property
The Mitoma area is characterized by the presence of historically economic tin, tungsten, beryllium and niobium-tantalum deposits hosted within the Mesoproterozoic metasediments located on the periphery of Proterozoic circular porphyritic granite intrusives. A TAG model is being used by the Company as a guide to the mineralization where an Intrusion Related Gold system is expected along with skarn and pegmatite host rocks. Disseminated sulphides have been observed in some quartzite and schistose lithologies on the property, supported by the numerous gold, tin, tantalum workings with alluvial gold panning has taken place on the license in the past.
Mwerusandu Property
The style of gold mineralization at the Mwerusandu area is associated with sedimentary rocks located in antiforms within the Karagwe-Ankolean system and in conjugate fracture sets in quartzites close to the contact with large granite batholiths termed arena granites. Disseminated sulphides have been observed in some quartzite and schistose lithologies on the property, supported by the numerous past gold, tin, tantalum and tungsten alluvial workings within the property. A light green, arsenic rich alteration phase identified as scorodite is also associated with gold mineralization at the Nyamulindira license. A TAG model is being used in an attempt to understand the mineralization where an Intrusion Related Gold system is expected along with skarn and pegmatite host rocks.
Exploration
Lugazi Property
Exploration work at Lugazi has comprised stream sediment (drainage) sampling, including both heavy mineral concentrates (“HMC”) and bulk leach extractable gold (“BLEG”), soil geochemistry, pitting, Thematic Mapper (“TM”) Landsat-Crosta alteration image interpretation and a fixed-wing airborne magnetics and radiometrics survey.
				A regional soil geochemistry survey comprising 859 samples discovered a new zone of anomalous gold-in-soil which extends over a length of some three km and appears to be open-ended to the west. A similar strength anomaly on a single line was also located to the south-east of the main anomaly, which could be the same zone of gold mineralization offset by faulting. Infill soil sampling consisting of 727 samples on 15 lines has since been completed to further define the gold anomaly. In addition, pits have been excavated to test the weathered profile for primary zones of mineralisation.
Mubende Property
In 2005 a total of 26 drainage sites were sampled within the granites and from the greisen zones. Sampling conditions in the drainages were far from ideal in spite of the rolling hills and high rainfall. In most cases no active primary drainage channel or alluvial sediment could be found, as the valleys have been covered with transported soil and have been either extensively tilled for farming or are choked with a mat of tussock grass or 2.5 m high elephant grass. 2 kg BLEG samples were collected from all 26 sites, and pH plus SO4 readings were taken. Seven of the sites provided sufficient suitable sediment for a HMC sample to be taken. Despite the adverse stream conditions, the BLEG and HMC sampling produced anomalous Au values together with elevated Cu and As,
				as could be expected with IRG-type greisen mineralization. The SO4 and pH values were anomalous over the granites, suggesting the presence of sulphides in the granites or the greisens.
Mitoma Property
Exploration activities at the Mitoma Property have comprised stream sediment (drainage) sampling (including HMC and BLEG); soil and rock geochemistry, pitting, detailed mapping and preliminary ground magnetics. Outcrops are scarce over the Property, requiring the use of exploration methods that can “see” through deep soil profiles.
				To date 2,546 soil samples have been collected over different areas of the property in seven phases. The samples were analyzed with the Terra Leach partial digest method and have delineated gold-in-soil anomalies at the Kahungye (EL 0023), Rugoma (EL 0025) and Rutaka (EL 0024) exploration licenses. Exploration is at an earlier stage at Kabira (EL 0005) and Kabira East (EL 0117), but areas of potential interest have been delineated from the 157 drainage samples, with some samples close to an area of historical alluvial/artisanal gold workings.
Mwerusandu Property
Exploration activity at the Mwerusandu Property has included: stream sediment sampling for both HMC and BLEG; terra leach (“TL”) soil and rock geochemistry; trenching and pitting; TM LandSat-Crosta alteration image interpretation; and detailed geological mapping of certain prospects.
				At the Nyamulindira license, rock grab sampling in 2005 identified gold values of 4 to 6 g/t gold in sericite schists near to a granite contact. Follow-up trenching intersected 20.4 g/t Au over 3.5 m in a quartz vein/ horizon. A 1 km long TL gold/arsenic-in-soil anomaly was outlined near the metasediment/granite contact, and remains open to the south. A program of soil sampling is currently in progress to define the anomaly at the contact further to the south. In December 2006 the geology of the Nyamulindira license (EL 0018) was mapped in detail. During the period December 2006 - February 2007 a total of 46 stream sediment samples were collected from the Kiana Mine (EL 0116) and adjacent Nyamulindira (EL 0018) licenses.
				At the Mwerusandu license, in October 2005 a total of 31 stream sediment sites were sampled. Sulphate (SO4) and water pH measurements were taken at all of the sites, as well as collecting HMC and BLEG samples. None of the HMC samples returned anomalous gold values, though one BLEG sample had a weakly anomalous gold value coincident with a strong tin (“Sn”)/W HMC anomaly. A further five sites had strong Sn anomalies. Subsequent follow-up included sampling 29 sites on the Kiana Mine license (EL 0116) and 12 on Mwerusandu West (EL 0022), none of which had anomalous gold values. In November 2006 a TL soil sampling program was carried out on the Mwerusandu West and Mwerusandu North (EL 0019) licenses. On the former, 138 samples were taken and sent for analysis together with six duplicates. On the latter, 46 samples plus two duplicates were taken. Multiple anomalous As values were detected, but no anomalous Au. Several anomalous Sn zones were identified in areas of no known tin mining.
Future Plans
The future plans with respect to the Uganda properties described below are based on the recommendations provided in the Uganda Technical Report and reflect the intentions of the Company as of the date of this Annual Report. However, the Company may change such future plans if warranted.
				On the Lugazi Property, the first priority of the Company will be to acquire the final data from the airborne geophysical survey that was completed in March 2007. The Company plans to have this data interpreted by a geophysicist with experience in East African geology and conditions. Ground EM will also be carried out on the soil anomalies in EL 0020. The Company intends to undertake a first phase of RC drilling, which will target the gold-in-soil anomalies. Regional soil sampling will be carried out on EL’s 0167, 0196, 0199 and 0200, initial soil anomalies will be infilled, and pits will be dug to investigate the depth continuity of the anomalies and the bedrock beneath the TL anomalies. Phase II will largely consist of additional RC drilling, contingent on the results of the first phase.
				On the Mubende Property Phase I exploration work will consist of a test program of augering and pitting in selected drainages, to select the best method of sampling the stream sediments across the area. Recovered gold particles will be examined to determine their provenance, and the anomalies resulting from the sediment sampling will be followed up with TL soil sampling. Phase II will consist of infill TL soil sampling and detailed geological mapping in the most promising areas, contingent on the results of the first phase.
				On the Mitoma Property Phase I will consist of shallow RC drilling to test the principal soil anomalies on the Kahungye and Rugoma licenses. Infill/confirming stream sediments will be taken on the Kabira licenses to the south, as well as TL soils to follow up the sediment anomalies. Phase II will include infill soil sampling at Kabira as well as additional RC drilling at Kahungye-Rugoma, contingent on the results of the initial holes, and at Kabira if warranted by gold-in-soil anomalies.
				On the Mwerusandu Property Phase I will include additional sediment sampling at Kiana and Mwerusandu, followed by TL soil sampling and mapping over areas of interest. The soil sampling will include extension to the south of the existing anomalous zone at Nyamulindira, with lines oriented both east-west and north-south to cover the soil anomaly and a major E-W structure. The major soil anomaly and trench mineralization at Nyamulindira will be tested with RC drilling. Contingent on the results of the initial drilling, a second phase of RC would be required to test the depth and strike extensions of the mineralization.
				The proposed total exploration budget outlined in the Uganda Technical Report for the Phase I exploration programs on all four properties is $1,031,000. The proposed budget for the Phase II exploration programs is $594,000, making the aggregate exploration budget on all four properties $1,625,000.
Mashonga Property
The following disclosure with respect to the Mashonga Property is based on the technical report dated October 10, 2007 (the “Mashonga Technical Report”) prepared by Martin J. Taylor, which is attached to this annual report as an exhibit.
Property Description and Location
The Mashonga Property is located some 320 km southwest of the capital Kampala in the Bushenyi district of southwestern Uganda. The property is approximately centred at Latitude 0° 25’S and Longitude 30° 10’E. The property consists of two Exploration Licenses covering an area of 460.50 sq. km, within which there are three contiguous Location Licenses (previously LL0065) totalling 0.37 sq. km that cover the workings of a mine (the “Mashonga Mine”) that was previously operated on the Property.
Geological Setting
The Mashonga region is largely underlain by Igara Group quartz-muscovite schists, quartzites and phyllites of the PalaeoProterozoic Buganda-Toro System. Younger granitic intrusions occur and there is evidence of mafic-ultramafic igneous intrusive bodies (gabbroic or diorite). North of the Mashonga Mine the Igara rocks are covered unconformably by Buhweju Group quartzites and conglomerates of the MesoProterozoic Karagwe-Ankolean System. North-south trending fold axes from isoclinal folded sequences are reported as well as N-S and E-W trending structures (shears?). The drainages in the mine area trend southeast, suggesting there is a regional structure parallel to this.
				The Buganda-Toro and Karagwe-Ankolean systems have been extensively folded into tight synclines and anticlines, with upright axial planes and, in the southern and central Mashonga area, the former has been intruded by synorogenic porphyritic gneissic adamellites to post-orogenic biotite-bearing alkaline granites and leucocratic, sub-alkaline, per-aluminous granites (“tin granites”). Historical economic Sn, tungsten (“W”), beryllium (“Be”), niobium (“Nb”)/tantalum (“Ta”) deposits occur in similar rocks to the south of the Mashonga Property, hosted within the metasediments on the periphery of the granites. The presence of
				abundant quartz veining, several gold occurrences and the Sn-W-Be-Ta mineralization in this environment support the typical hydrothermal and epithermal activity of the Intrusive-Related Gold model driving the exploration.
				Informal gold production from the Mashonga Mine is reported to come from an east-west trending sheared quartz-vein zone. The mineralized shear appears to be hosted by quartz-muscovite schist, at the contact between the schist and granitic rock. The wallrock of the mine pit, much of which is now filled by slumped material, is comprised of schist and kaolinitized granite with pegmatitic veins and quartz stockwork veining. In addition a quartz-mica schist that may be a recrystallized mafic (or ultramafic) rock was observed by Magnus and the author of the Mashonga Technical Report on the mine dumps that are reported to come from the pit/underground workings.
Mineralization
Artisanal gold production from the Mashonga Mine is reported to come from an east-west trending sheared-quartz vein zone, tentatively interpreted by Magnus to be a splay off a northwest-trending regional structure. The open cut that was being mined in 2006 has now slumped in after the heavy rains of the past nine months. The mineralized shear appears to be hosted by quartz-muscovite schist, or at the contact between the schist and granitic rock. Parts of the open cast wallrock are kaolinitized granite with pegmatitic veins and a quartz stockwork. There is abundant evidence of gold artisanal activity outside of the Mashonga Mine itself, none of which is well documented. Alluvial and colluvial mining is widespread, including reworked gravel beds or raised terraces.
				Previous work at Mashonga by exploration companies and UNDP/government surveys has placed the bedrock mineralization into one of two main styles: shear zone/vein-hosted or conglomerate-hosted (the Lubare ridge north of Mashonga). Rock sampling in the past has therefore targeted either quartz veining with alteration haloes and conglomerates at the contact with quartzites. The presence of anomalous platinum group elements (“PGE”) values in rock samples from the mine area and possibly anomalous Terra Leach soils from further east suggest the gold mineralization in the Buganda-Toro sediments may have a significant PGE association.
				In the Mashonga area the Company believes there is an Intrusive Related Gold (IRG) style of mineralization. This model takes into account both large veins which occur on the margins of granite bodies as well as granite hosted sheeted, stockwork or pegmatitic veins. In the larger veins such as mined at Mashonga, high gold grades can be expected. An economic deposit, however, is more likely to be a lower grade, granite hosted system which calls for alternative exploration techniques (multi-element geochemistry, IP to detect zones of silicification, magnetic halo anomalies, recognition of metal/element assemblages and unique features such as unidirectional solidification textures, greisens and pegmatites.
				The Mashonga area also bears some similarities to the Banro Corp. Twangiza deposit in the eastern Democratic Republic of the Congo (“DRC”), though the same level of sulphides has yet to be identified at Mashonga. Strongly anomalous arsenic-in-soil values in the vicinity of the Mashonga Mine suggest significant arsenopyrite does occur. The Twangiza auriferous sulphides (pyrite, arsenopyrite) are hosted in similar metasediments, along the hinge zone of an anticline with associated mafic and feldspar-porphyry intrusions. The sulphides occur both in quartz-carbonate veins and as disseminations through the metasediments and intrusives.
Exploration
The Company has carried out several limited due diligence programs on the Mashonga Property and has acquired the data for similar exercises in 2005-2007 by Flemish Investments Limited (“FIL”) and Oryx Mining and Exploration Ltd. (“Oryx”). The Company only started formal exploration on the Property in September 2007 with mapping of the mine area and regional soil sampling. Prior to the Company’s acquisition of the Property, the due diligence exploration activities conducted by FIL and Oryx comprised: stream sediment heavy mineral concentrate (HMC) sampling; Terra Leach and fire assay soil geochemistry; and rock grab sampling.
				In September 2005 FIL carried out a soil orientation program east and west of the Mashonga Mine to compare the TL and fire assay (“FA”) analytical methods. Samples were taken at 50 m intervals, closing to 25 m over the projected strike of the mineralization. Sampling lines were located 200 m east and 300 m west of the mine workings to avoid contamination. The soil profile on both lines was a deeply weathered red to light red clay soil.
				The Fire Assay results show several elevated values on both lines while the Terra Leach results exhibit stronger anomalous values over a broader zone. These soil results confirmed the soil anomaly discovered by a previous company that explored the Property, African Precious Metals (“APM”), and suggest the mineralization exposed in the mine workings is open to the west. Together with the APM gold-in-soil anomaly they have defined a drill target along a 1 km-wide zone trending from NW to SE, with a strike of at least 2 km and open to the southeast.
				In March 2007 a further 60 Terra Leach samples were collected by Oryx along the ridges to the west and east of the principal APM gold-in-soil anomaly. Given the known anomalous nature of the area sampled it was no surprise that the background levels for gold in particular as well as arsenic and bismuth were higher than would be expected for a regional survey. The principal gold anomaly on the eastern line (in samples Y3031-Y3043 inclusive) coincides with and corroborates the core of the previous APM gold-in-soil anomaly.
				In October 2006 Magnus collected a total of 16 rock grab samples as part of its due diligence process. In addition two samples (15406 and 15407), supposedly from the bottom of the Mashonga pit, were provided by the property owner, John Muruli. All of the samples were analyzed at SGS-Lakefield in Johannesburg for gold, PGE and base metals. None of the samples collected from the mine area by Magnus returned assays indicative of gold mineralization. One sample from Mashonga East, by artisanal workings on the west side of the APM gold-in-soil anomaly, returned a gold analysis of 9.74 ppm. The two samples of sulphide-rich quartz-muscovite schist provided by Mr. Muruli, however, returned very high gold values. Sample 15406, reportedly from the footwall to the main vein structure, gave 43.9 ppm Au, 1.89 ppm Pt and 1.84 ppm Pd. High values were also returned for Ag (170 ppm), As (120 ppm), Bi (2230 ppm), Pb (1560 ppm), Sn and W. Repeat assays on this sample in June 2007 closely confirmed the gold value. Platinum repeated at 0.16 and 0.45 ppm, while Pd gave 0.14 and 1.04 ppm. Sample 15407, reportedly from the hanging-wall to the main vein structure, also returned a very high gold value of 27.6 ppm Au. A Bi value of 2630 ppm was accompanied by 220 ppm Pb and elevated Sn, W, Pt and Pd.
				These results corroborate high grades reported by APM. The coordinates for the APM samples were never provided to Mr. Muruli, however.
				In February 2007 a further 10 rock samples were collected by Oryx from the vicinity of the mine during its due diligence on the Property. Two of these, both black schists from the mine dump, returned high precious-metal values. Sample L0643 gave 58.8 ppm Au, 4.15 ppm Pt, 3.68 ppm Pd, 672 ppb Rh, 97 ppb Ru, 117 ppb Ir, >1000 ppm Pb and elevated Bi, Sn and W. Sample L0645 gave 22.6 ppm Au, 0.64 ppm Pt. 0.77 ppm Pd, 92 ppb Rh, 37 ppb Ir, >1000 ppm Pb and elevated Bi, Sn and W. Both of these samples are dump grabs, supposedly the altered and sheared mafic rock from the mine. Neither Magnus nor the author of the Mashonga Technical Report was able to observe this lithology in-situ nor have the mine workings been channel-sampled.
				During June 2007, five rock grab samples and one HMC were collected from the mine dumps at Mashonga by Magnus. The samples collected were the same recrystallized mafic schists that reported high gold and PGE’s in sampling mentioned above (L0643 and L0645), as well as from granite pegmatite veins. Samples were submitted to SGS-Lakefield in Johannesburg. Two repeat analyses were also carried out on sample 15406 from the Mashonga Mine.
				In October 2006 Magnus collected 4 heavy-metal concentrate (HMC) from streams in the Mashonga Mine area. Three were collected from drainages on the east side of the APM gold-in-soil anomaly and one from southwest of the Mashonga Mine. One additional sample was collected in February 2007. The results of
				the HMC confirm elevated levels of gold in streams draining the area of the gold-in-soil anomaly. In one sample, 15419, high values of 537 ppm Au and 1.93 ppm Pd were returned from a stream draining past artisanal workings. This sample also had anomalous Bi and Cu values.
Future Plans
The future plans with respect to the Mashonga Property described below are based on the recommendations provided in the Mashonga Technical Report and reflect the intentions of the Company as of the date of this Annual Report. However, the Company may change such future plans if warranted.
				On the Mashonga Property Phase I exploration by Magnus should consist of shallow RC drilling to test the principal soil anomaly east of the mine, as well as drilling beneath and on strike close to the mine workings. Detailed mapping of the area east and west of the mine should be carried out as well as reconnaissance-scale mapping and soil sampling on EL 0059 south of the mine. The results of the 2006-2007 World Bank-sponsored airborne geophysics should be acquired for the Property area.
				Phase II would principally consist of additional RC drilling, contingent on the results of the initial holes, both deeper into the bedrock and to expand the area of mineralization. Any new soil anomalies would also be tested with shallow RC drilling. Detailed ground magnetic surveys may be appropriate to follow up the airborne results and consideration should be given to the use of IP. In the IP surveys the resistivity component can assist in interpreting structures and detecting quartz-vein systems.
				The proposed total exploration budget for the Mashonga Phase I exploration program is $319,000. The proposed budget for the Mashonga Phase II exploration program is $515,000, making the aggregate exploration budget on the Mashonga Property $834,000.
Leased Office Space
The Company currently leases four administrative offices: in Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada; in Kunming, China; in Las Vegas, Nevada; and in London, United Kingdom. These leased properties are described in the table below:
Address
Approximate Size
Lease Term
Approximate
								monthly cost
Suite 550-1055 West Hastings Street,
							Vancouver, BC, Canada V6E 2E9
4,900 Square feet
23 months (expires
							May 30, 2008)
Cdn.$9,422
Dushimingyuan Bldg., No. A-2708,
							Central Renmin Road, Kunming City, Yunnan Province 650031, People’s Republic of China
1,000 Square feet
1 year (expires
							March 31, 2008)
USD$1,520 per month
							until Dec. 31, 2007;
							USD$727 thereafter
101 Convention Center Drive, 7th Floor,
							Las Vegas, NV, USA 89109
Shared Space,
							2,500 square feet
One year (expires
							April 30, 2008)
USD$167
1 Berkeley Street, London, UK,
							W1J 8DJ
Shared Space, 1,500 square feet
Month to month
USD$500
ITEM 3.