ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
Introduction: Gold Processing Methods
Gold is extracted from naturally-oxidized ores by either heap leaching or milling, depending on the amount of gold contained in the ore and the amenability of the gold ore to treatment. Gold contained in ores that are not naturally oxidized can be directly milled if the gold is amenable to cyanidization, generally known as free milling ores. Ores that will not leach efficiently, known as refractory ores, require more costly and complex processing techniques than oxide or free milling ore. Higher-grade refractory ores are processed through either roasters or autoclaves. Roasters heat finely ground ore with air and oxygen to a high temperature and burn off the carbon and oxidize the sulfide minerals that encase the gold and prevent efficient leaching. Autoclaves use heat, oxygen and pressure to remove sulfide minerals from the ore.
Some gold bearing sulfide ores may be processed through a flotation plant or by bio-milling. In flotation, ore is finely ground, turned into slurry, then placed in a tank known as a flotation cell. Chemicals are added to the slurry causing the gold-containing sulfides to float in air bubbles to the top of the tank, where they can be separated from waste particles that sink to the bottom. The sulfides are removed from the cell and formed into a concentrate that can then be processed in an autoclave or roaster to fully recover the gold. Bio-milling incorporates patented technology that involves inoculation of suitable crushed ore on a leach pad with naturally occurring bacteria strains that oxidize the sulfides encasing the gold over a period of time. The ore is then processed through an oxide mill.
Free milled ores and some oxide ores are processed through mills where the ore is ground into a fine powder and mixed with water in slurry, which then passes through a cyanide leaching circuit where gold is extracted and collected on carbon followed by extraction from the carbon and electrowinning. Other ores are processed using heap leaching. The ore is crushed and stacked on impermeable pads, where weak cyanide solution is applied to the top surface of the heaps to dissolve the gold. The gold-bearing solution is collected and pumped to facilities to remove the gold by collection on carbon or zinc precipitation directly from leach solutions.
Production Properties
Set forth below is a description of the properties of Newmont and its subsidiaries, including the properties of Normandy and Franco-Nevada.
North America
Nevada
Production
Newmont has been mining gold in Nevada since 1965. Newmont's Nevada operations include Carlin, located west of Elko on the geological feature known as the Carlin Trend, and the Winnemucca Region, located 80 miles (129 kilometers) to the west of Carlin. The Carlin Trend is the largest gold district discovered in North America in the last 50 years. The Winnemucca Region includes the Twin Creeks mine located near Winnemucca,
the Lone Tree Complex located near Battle Mountain, and the Battle Mountain Complex, near Battle Mountain, where there are no currently active mining operations but where studies are ongoing with respect to the feasibility of developing a large gold/copper deposit, known as Phoenix. Following Newmont's acquisition of Normandy, our Nevada operations also include the Midas mine.
In 2001, ore was mined from nine open-pit deposits and five underground mines, including the Midas mine. Although the Deep Post open pit was mined out at the end of 2000, production from stockpiled ore continued into 2001. Production from the Deep Post underground mine, which is accessed through a decline near the bottom of the pit, commenced in March 2001.
Gold sales from Newmont's Nevada operations (excluding the Midas mine, which was acquired by Newmont in the Normandy acquisition) totaled approximately 2.7 million equity ounces at a cash cost of $222 per ounce for 2001. The Midas mine sold 138,900 ounces of gold in 2001. Total cash costs per ounce produced were $135.(/5/)
Underground production will continue to grow at Carlin, as preliminary underground mine development is expected to begin in 2002 at Leeville. Additionally, for the first time, underground mining will occur from the Gold Quarry open pit mine, where development of a small deposit, Chukar, began in January 2002, with production expected in November 2002.
Processing Facilities
Newmont's operations in Nevada have a number of different ore types and processing techniques. Newmont has developed a linear programming model to determine the best mix of ore types for each processing facility in order to obtain the maximum ounces of gold at the lowest cost from the ores. Approximately 74.6% of Newmont's 2001 year-end proven and probable gold reserves in Nevada (excluding the Midas mine) were refractory and the balance were oxide. Nevada's production has increasingly come from higher-cost refractory ores from both deep open pits and underground mines, as near- surface oxide ores have been depleted. Refractory ore treatment facilities are expected to generate approximately 76% of Nevada's gold production (excluding the Midas mine) in 2002, compared with 65% in 2001, and 68% in 2000.
Higher-grade oxide ores are processed at one oxide mill at Carlin, two at Twin Creeks and one at Lone Tree. Newmont is considering whether to continue operating the Midas mill, or close it and process the Midas ore at one of the oxide mills at Twin Creeks. Lower-grade oxide ores are processed using heap leaching. Higher-grade refractory ores are processed through either a roaster at Carlin or through autoclaves at Twin Creeks or Lone Tree. Lower grade sulfide ores are processed through a flotation plant at Lone Tree or at Carlin by bio-milling.
Gold-bearing activated carbon from Carlin's milling and leaching facilities is processed on site at a central carbon processing plant and adjacent smelting facilities. Separate carbon processing facilities are located in the North and South Areas at Twin Creeks with one smelter in the North Area. Lone Tree has two carbon processing facilities. Material from the Lone Tree carbon processing facilities is smelted at Carlin.
Other Facilities
Analytical laboratories, maintenance facilities and administrative offices are located at Carlin, Twin Creeks and the Lone Tree Complex. Newmont also has an advanced metallurgical research laboratory in Denver, Colorado. - -------- (5) Midas was acquired by Normandy effective April 1, 2001, prior to which it was owned and operated by Franco-Nevada.
Mineral Rights
Newmont owns, or controls through long-term mining leases and unpatented mining claims, all of the minerals and surface area within the boundaries of the present Carlin and Winnemucca Region mining operations. The long-term leases extend for at least the anticipated mine life of those deposits. With respect to a significant portion of the Gold Quarry mine at Carlin, Newmont owns a 10% undivided interest in the mineral rights and leases the remaining 90%, on which Newmont pays a royalty equivalent to 18% of the mineral production. The remainder of the Gold Quarry mineral rights are wholly-owned or controlled by Newmont, in some cases subject to additional royalties. With respect to certain smaller deposits in the Winnemucca Region, Newmont is obligated to pay royalties on production to third parties that vary from 3% to 5% of production.
Exploration
Exploration near existing mines was highlighted by underground drilling in the Deep Post/Deep Star corridor. Follow-up drilling will test for additional extensions and other targets in that region.
California
Newmont has one mine in Southern California, Mesquite. Mining operations at Mesquite ceased in the second quarter of 2001, with the depletion of the main ore body. Production from residual heap leaching resulted in sales of 92,600 ounces of gold at a total cash cost of $205 per ounce in 2001. Mesquite operations are transitioning to temporary shut-down and reclamation, and declining amounts of gold will be recovered from the inventory of ores on the heap leach pads. The permitting process for an expansion at Mesquite is continuing, but such expansion is dependent on higher gold prices.
Canada
Newmont's Canadian operations include two underground mines. The Golden Giant mine (100% owned), is located approximately 25 miles (40 kilometers) east of Marathon in Ontario, Canada and has been in production since 1985. The Holloway mine is located approximately 35 miles (56 kilometers) east of Matheson in Ontario, and about 400 miles (644 kilometers) northeast of Golden Giant. The Holloway mine is owned by a joint venture in which Newmont has an 84.65% interest. The remaining 15.35% interest is held by Teddy Bear Valley Mines.
The Golden Giant and Holloway mines together sold 373,100 equity ounces of gold in 2001 at a total cash cost of $192 per ounce.
Also see the TVX Normandy description on page 21 below for information on other Newmont property interests in Canada.
Mexico
Newmont has a 44% interest in La Herradura, which is located in northwest Sonora, Mexico, and operated by the Penoles group, Mexico's largest silver producer. The mine is an open pit operation with a two-stage crushing circuit and heap-leach recovery. Mine sales were 124,300 ounces of gold (54,700 equity ounces) in 2001. Total cash costs were $173 per ounce.
South America
Peru
The properties of Minera Yanacocha S.R.L. are located approximately 375 miles (604 kilometers) north of Lima and 28 miles (45 kilometers) north of the city of Cajamarca. Since the discovery of gold ores in 1986, the area has become the largest gold district in South America. Minera Yanacocha began production in 1993. Newmont holds a 51.35% interest in Minera Yanacocha. The remaining interest is held by Compania de Minas Buenaventura, S.A.A. (43.65%) and the International Finance Corporation (5%).
Minera Yanacocha has mining rights with respect to a large land position that includes multiple deposits as well as other prospects. Minera Yanacocha's mining rights were acquired through assignments of concessions granted by the Peruvian government to a related entity. The assignments have a term of 20 years, beginning in the early 1990s, renewable at the option of Minera Yanacocha for another 20 years. In October 2000, Newmont and Buenaventura unitized their land holdings in northern Peru, folding them into Minera Yanacocha. The unitization increased Minera Yanacocha's land position from 100 to 535 square miles.
Five open-pit mines, four leach pads, and two processing plants are in operation at Yanacocha. Gold sales for 2001 totaled 1.91 million ounces (983,100 equity ounces) at a total cash cost of $115 per ounce. Production from the La Quinua deposit commenced in the fourth quarter of 2001. By 2003, production from La Quinua is expected to reach one million ounces per year at an average total cash cost of approximately $125 per ounce.
Exploration at Minera Yanacocha is focused on further definition of covered oxide deposits and deeper copper/gold sulfide systems. Additional oxide mineralization was found during 2001 at Corimayo, on the western edge of La Quinua.
Bolivia
The Kori Kollo open pit mine is on the high plain in northwestern Bolivia near Oruro, on government mining concessions issued to a Bolivian corporation, Empresa Minera Inti Raymi S.A., of which Newmont has a 88% interest. The remaining 12% is owned by Zeland Mines, S.A. Inti Raymi owns and operates the mine. In 2001, the mine sold 312,300 ounces (274,800 equity ounces) of gold, while total cash costs declined 21% from 2000 to $158 per ounce.
Brazil and Chile
Newmont also has interests in two operating mines in Brazil and one in Chile. See the TVX Normandy discussion on page 21 below for more details.
Australia
Prior to our acquisition of Normandy, we owned a 50% interest in the Pajingo (Vera/Nancy) Mine discussed below. The remaining 50% interest in Pajingo (Vera/Nancy), and all other Australian properties described in this report, were acquired as part of our acquisition of Normandy.
Kalgoorlie
The Kalgoorlie operations comprise the Fimiston open pit (commonly referred to as the Super Pit) and Mt. Charlotte underground mine at Kalgoorlie-Boulder, 373 miles (600 kilometers) east of Perth. The mines are managed and run by Kalgoorlie Consolidated Gold Mines Pty Ltd for the joint venture owners, Newmont and Barrick, each of which holds 50%.
The Super Pit is Australia's largest gold mine, in terms of both gold production and total annual mining volumes. Mt. Charlotte is a large underground gold mine. In 2001, 768,700 ounces of gold (384,400 Normandy ounces) were sold at the combined Kalgoorlie operations. Total cash costs of production were $203 per ounce. The Mt. Charlotte operation closed in December 2001.
Boddington
Boddington, a large-scale open pit mining operation, is located 81 miles (130 kilometers) southeast of Perth in Western Australia. Boddington is operated by Worsley Alumina Pty Ltd on behalf of the joint venture owners, Newmont (44.4%), AngloGold Limited (33.3%) and Newcrest Mining Limited (22.2%). Mining operations ceased in November 2001, and facilities are being placed on care and maintenance, as the facilities may be used for a proposed expansion project pending the restructuring of current management arrangements as a prerequisite to any development. In 2001, 234,000 ounces of gold (104,000 Normandy ounces) were sold. Total cash costs of production were $195 per ounce.
Yandal
Newmont owns a 100% interest in Yandal, which consists of the Bronzewing, Jundee and Wiluna mines situated approximately 435 miles (700 kilometers) northeast of Perth in the Yandal Goldfields in Western Australia. The three operations collectively sold 835,500 ounces of gold in 2001. Normandy estimated that the average cash costs of production were $160 per ounce.
Tanami
The Tanami operations comprise The Granites treatment plant and associated mining operations, which are located in the Northern Territory approximately 342 miles (550 kilometers) northwest of Alice Springs, adjacent to the Tanami highway, and the Dead Bullock Soak mining operations, approximately 25 miles (40 kilometers) west of The Granites. The Tanami operations are owned by Normandy NFM Limited, a publicly listed, 87.45% owned subsidiary of Newmont.
The operation is predominantly focused on the Callie underground mine at Dead Bullock Ridge with mill feed supplemented by production from the Dead Bullock Ridge open pit and the Bunkers and Quorn pits at The Granites. Ore from all of these operations is processed through The Granites plant. The Tanami operations also include the Groundrush deposit, at which mining commenced in mid-September 2001. Ore from Groundrush is processed through the Tanami plant rather than The Granites plant.
In 2001, the Tanami operations sold 506,000 ounces of gold (442,500 Normandy ounces). Total cash costs of production were $144 per ounce.
Pajingo (Vera/Nancy)
The Pajingo gold mine is an underground mine located approximately 93 miles (150 kilometers) southwest of Townsville, Queensland and 45 miles (72 kilometers) south of the local township of Charters Towers. Prior to the Normandy acquisition, Newmont owned a 50% interest in Pajingo. Following the Normandy acquisition, Newmont owns 100% of Pajingo. In 2001, Pajingo sold 252,000 ounces of gold (126,000 equity ounces). Total cash costs of production were $105 per ounce.
In respect to the Pajingo mine, royalties are paid to the Queensland government at 4.0%-5.9% of revenues depending on the gold price. Royalties are also paid to traditional land owners consisting of 0.2% of revenues and a fixed payment upon exploration success.
Mt. Leyshon
The Mt. Leyshon open pit gold mine, near Charters Towers, Queensland, is owned by Leyshon Resources Ltd, which is a publicly listed company, of which Newmont owns 13.7%.
Mining ceased at Mt. Leyshon in February 2001. The operation is currently producing gold by treating existing low-grade stockpiles. Treatment of stockpiles is expected to be completed in early 2002, with operations expected to be closed by mid-2002.
A comprehensive mine closure and rehabilitation plan covering remaining operations, closure, rehabilitation, decommissioning, and post-closure monitoring has been implemented. As part of a restructuring of Leyshon Resources Ltd, Newmont will assume responsibility for mine closure and rehabilitation costs, as well as ongoing environmental obligations.
Golden Grove
Newmont owns 100% of the Golden Grove operation in Western Australia, approximately 217 miles (350 kilometers) north of Perth. The principal product is zinc concentrate. A high precious metal lead concentrate and low precious metal copper concentrate are also produced. Golden Grove has two underground mines at the Scuddles and Gossan Hill deposits, with a combined mining rate of 1.2 million tonnes per year. Golden Grove produced 182,700 tonnes of zinc concentrates containing 82,400 tonnes of payable zinc during the period July 1, 2000 to June 30, 2001. It also produced concentrates containing 242.5 million pounds of copper during the same period.
New Zealand
Newmont acquired an interest in the Martha gold mine as part of the Normandy acquisition. This mine is located within the town of Waihi, located approximately 68 miles (110 kilometers) southeast of Auckland, New Zealand. It is a joint venture between Newmont and Otter Gold Mines Limited. Newmont receives a management fee of 2% of gross revenues from Otter. The long term future for the Martha operation is based on the recently discovered Favona vein.
Normandy NFM Limited, an 87.45% owned subsidiary of Newmont, owns a 67.06% interest in the Martha mine. Otter owns the remaining 32.94% interest. On October 11, 2001, Normandy NFM announced a bid for Otter, and had received acceptances from approximately 83% of the Otter shares as of the date of this report. As a result, Newmont now has an approximate 90% interest in the Martha mine.
The operation sold 109,300 ounces of gold (78,900 Normandy ounces) in 2001. Total cash costs of production were $172 per ounce.
The Martha mine does not currently pay royalties. Under new royalty arrangements, the Martha mine will be required to pay a royalty on new discoveries such as Favona. The royalty rate is the greater of 1% of gross revenues from silver and gold sales or 5% of accounting profit.
Indonesia
Newmont has two operating properties in Indonesia, Minahasa, a gold operation, and Batu Hijau, a producer of copper/gold concentrates. Newmont owns 80% of Minahasa. The remaining 20% interest is a carried interest held by P.T. Tanjung Serapung, an unrelated Indonesian company. Newmont has a 45% equity interest in Batu Hijau through a partnership with an affiliate of Sumitomo Corporation, which holds a 35% interest. The remaining 20% is a carried interest held by P.T. Pukuafu Indah, an Indonesian company. We account for our investment in Batu Hijau as an equity investment due to each partner's significant participating rights in the business. Newmont is entitled to 56.25% of production until Newmont recovers the bulk of its investment, including interest.
Newmont's first project in Indonesia, Minahasa, on the island of Sulawesi, approximately 1,500 miles (2,414 kilometers) northeast of Jakarta, was a Newmont discovery and consisted of a multi-deposit operation. Production began in 1996 and mining was completed in October 2001. It is expected, however, that processing of stockpiled ore from this mine will continue through 2003. In 2001, Minahasa sold 341,500 equity ounces at a total cash cost of $142 per ounce.
Newmont's second project in Indonesia, Batu Hijau, is located on the island of Sumbawa, approximately 950 miles (1,529 kilometers) east of Jakarta. Batu Hijau is a large porphyry copper/gold deposit, which Newmont discovered in 1990. The mine contains reserves of 9.7 billion pounds of copper (5.5 billion equity pounds) and
11 million ounces of gold (6.1 million equity ounces). Development and construction activities began in 1997 and start-up took place in late 1999. In 2001, copper production increased 26% to 657 million pounds (370 million equity pounds), while gold production increased 65% to 524,600 ounces (295,100 equity ounces). Total cash costs in 2001 declined 37% to $0.36 per pound of copper after gold credits.
In Indonesia, rights are granted to foreign investors to explore for and to develop mineral resources within defined areas through Contracts of Work entered into with the Indonesian government. In 1986, Newmont entered into separate Contracts of Work with the government covering Minahasa and Batu Hijau, under which Newmont was granted the exclusive right to explore in the contract area, construct any required facilities, extract and process the mineralized materials, and sell and export the minerals produced, subject to certain requirements including Indonesian government approvals and payment of royalties to the government. Under the Contracts of Work, Newmont has the right to continue operating the projects for 30 years from operational start- up, or longer if approved by the Indonesian government.
Under Newmont's Contracts of Work, beginning in the sixth year after mining operations commenced (and continuing through the tenth year), a portion of each project not already owned by Indonesian nationals must be offered for sale to the Indonesian government or to Indonesian nationals, thereby potentially reducing Newmont's (and, in the case of Batu Hijau, Newmont's and Sumitomo's) ownership in each project to 49% by the end of the tenth year. The price at which such interest would be offered for sale to the Indonesian parties would be the highest of the then-current replacement cost, the price at which shares of the project company would be accepted for listing on the Jakarta Stock Exchange, or the fair market value of such interest in the project company as a going concern.
In April 1997, Newmont entered into a third Indonesian Contract of Work granting rights to explore an area located on Sulawesi near the Minahasa mine. Newmont owned 80% of this project, and P.T. Lebong Tandai, an Indonesian company, held the remaining 20%, as a carried interest. After several years of exploration, which resulted in the identification of mineralized areas but no resources sufficient to support a large-scale gold mining operation, Newmont solicited third party interest in this Contract of Work. As a result, in January 2002, we sold all of our interest in this Contract of Work to Avocet Mining Plc., a company based in London, which operates the Penjom gold mine in Malaysia. In addition to cash consideration, Avocet has agreed to pay Newmont the equivalent of a 4% NSR royalty on the first 500,000 ounces of gold produced from this Contract of Work area, if any gold is produced.
Uzbekistan
Newmont has a 50% interest in Zarafshan-Newmont. Ownership of the remaining 50% interest is divided between the State Committee for Geology and Mineral Resources and Navoi Mining and Metallurgical Combine, each a state entity of Uzbekistan. The joint venture produces gold by crushing and leaching ore from existing stockpiles of low-grade oxide ore from the nearby government-owned Muruntau mine. The gold produced by Zarafshan-Newmont is sold in international markets for U.S. dollars. Newmont provides technical and managerial support to Zarafshan-Newmont.
The State Committee and Navoi guaranteed to furnish Zarafshan-Newmont with 242 million tons of ore with an average grade of 0.036 ounces of gold per ton, containing approximately 8.6 million ounces of gold. In late 2000, the ore supply agreement was amended to add an additional 220 million tons of ore with an average grade of 0.05 ounces of gold per ton. To handle the additional ore, the joint venture is extending the leach pad and conveyor system. For 2001, the project sold 444,000 ounces of gold (222,000 equity ounces) at a total cash cost of $136 per ounce.
Turkey
The Ovacik gold mine is located on the western Aegean coast of Turkey and was acquired by Newmont through the acquisition of Normandy. Newmont owns 100% of the mine. The first gold was produced in June 2001. In 2001, Ovacik sold 48,200 ounces of gold. Total cash costs of production were $153 per ounce. The mine is the subject of lawsuits which could result in its closure.
Africa
The Ity gold mine is located in Cote d'Ivoire, West Africa. Normandy, prior to being acquired by Newmont, accepted an offer for the sale of its interest in the Ity gold mine. The sale was finalized on March 7, 2002, for $10.8 million paid at closing and an NSR royalty.
TVX Normandy
TVX Normandy was formed in June 1999 as a strategic alliance between Normandy and TVX Gold. TVX Normandy is 49.9% owned by Normandy and 50.1% owned by TVX Gold. TVX Normandy sold 857,500 ounces (192,400 Normandy ounces) in 2001. Total cash costs of production were $154 per ounce.
The principal assets of TVX Normandy are interests in the following operating gold mines in South America and Canada:
.Paracatu (51% Rio Tinto Limited; 49% economic interest TVX Normandy)
Rio Tinto is the operator of the mine, which is located in Brazil, 149 miles (240 kilometers) southeast of Brasilia. In 2001, Paracatu sold 191,400 ounces of gold. Total cash costs of production were $193 per ounce.
.Crixas (50% AngloGold; 50% economic interest TVX Normandy)
AngloGold is the operator of the mine, which is located in Brazil, 218 miles (350 kilometers) northwest of Brasilia. In 2001, Crixas sold 203,500 ounces of gold. Total cash costs of production were $109 per ounce.
.La Coipa (50% Placer Dome; 50% TVX Normandy)
Placer Dome is the operator of the mine, which is located in Northern Chile. In 2001, La Coipa's gold equivalent sold was 124,800 ounces. Total cash costs of production were $88 per ounce.
.Musselwhite (68.1% Placer Dome; 31.9% TVX Normandy)
Placer Dome is the operator of the mine, which is located 311 miles (500 kilometers) north of Thunder Bay in northwestern Ontario, Canada. In 2001, Musselwhite sold 229,600 ounces of gold. Total cash costs of production were $189 per ounce.
.New Britannia (50% High River Gold; 50% TVX Normandy)
TVX Normandy is the operator of the mine, which is located in Snow Lake, Canada, 436 miles (700 kilometers) north of Winnipeg in central Manitoba. In 2001, New Britannia sold 108,200 ounces of gold. Total cash costs of production were $188 per ounce.
Overseas Operations
Newmont Mining Corporation Operating Statistics
Batu Hijau Copper Production
Royalty Properties
The following is a description of Newmont's principal royalty interests, all of which were acquired as a result of the Franco-Nevada acquisition. Newmont's royalty interests are generally in the form of a net smelter return ("NSR") royalty that provides for the payment either in cash or physical metal ("in kind") of a specified percentage of production, less certain specified transportation and refining costs. In some cases, Newmont owns a net profit interest ("NPI") pursuant to which Newmont is entitled to a specified percentage of the net profits, as defined in each case, from a particular mining operation. The majority of NSR royalty revenue and NPI revenue can be received in kind at the option of Newmont.
North America
Nevada
Goldstrike
Newmont holds various NSR and NPI royalties at the Goldstrike Properties (Betze-Post and Meikle mines) located in the Carlin Trend gold mining area of northern Nevada. The Betze-Post and Meikle mines are owned and operated by a subsidiary of Barrick Gold Corporation.
The Betze-Post mine is a conventional open pit operation. The Betze-Post property consists of various claim blocks and Newmont's royalty interest in each claim block is different, ranging from 0% to 4% for the NSRs and 0% to 6% for the NPIs.
The Meikle mine is an underground operation comprising the Meikle, Rodeo, and Griffin deposits, located one mile north of the Betze-Post mine, which shares the Goldstrike processing facilities with the Betze-Post mine. Newmont holds a 4% NSR and a 5% NPI over 1,280 acres of the claims that cover the Meikle, Rodeo, and Griffin deposits.
Newmont is not obligated to fund any portion of the cost associated with the Betze-Post mine or the Meikle mine.
Barrick's mining sequence from various claim areas will cause fluctuations in Newmont's royalty receipts. The NSR royalties are based upon gross production from the mine, reduced only by the ancillary costs of smelter charges and transportation costs of about $2 per ounce. The determinants of the revenue received from
the NSRs covering the Betze-Post Mine are the number of ounces of gold produced, the spot price of gold, and the cost of shipping and smelting. The Betze-Post Goldstrike NPI began paying in October 1993, the month that the cumulative net profit from the Betze-Post and Goldstrike claims exceeded capital invested in those claims. Net profits are calculated as proceeds less costs. Proceeds equal the number of ounces of gold produced from the Betze- Post and Goldstrike claims and the Meikle mine, multiplied by the spot price of gold on the date gold is credited to Barrick's account at the refinery. Costs include operating and capital costs as incurred.
Montana
Stillwater
Newmont holds a 5% net smelter return royalty on a portion of the Stillwater mine and all of the East Boulder mine located near Nye, Montana. The Stillwater mine and East Boulder mine projects are owned and operated by Stillwater Mining Company. Stillwater produces palladium, platinum, and associated metals (platinum group metals or PGMs) from a geological formation known as the J-M Reef. Stillwater is the only significant producer of PGMs outside of South Africa and Russia. The J-M Reef is an extensive mineralized zone containing PGMs, which has been traced over a strike length of approximately 28 miles.
Newmont's royalty covers more than 80% of the combined reserves and mineralized material of the deposit, but does not cover a portion of the deposit at the Stillwater mine. The majority of production to date has been from the Stillwater mine. For that reason, the percentage of ore mined from the royalty lands has been lower than the 80% reserve percentage. For the years 1995 through 2000, the average annual percentage of total production from the royalty lands was 52.45%. The percentage of future production from the royalty lands will vary from year to year.
The royalty encompasses all of the reserves at the East Boulder mine, which is being developed approximately thirteen miles to the west of the Stillwater mine. Once the East Boulder mine is producing, the percentage of total production from the royalty lands will increase. Ultimately, the cumulative rate is expected to equal the percentage of reserves covered by the royalty. On November 8, 2001, Stillwater announced that in light of sharply lower prices for palladium and platinum, it was modifying mine plans for both the Stillwater and East Boulder mines.
Canada
Oil & Gas Interests
Newmont's oil and gas portfolio contains 1.8 million gross acres of producing and non-producing lands located in western Canada and the Canadian Arctic. The average royalty on these lands is 6%.
Investment Interests
Echo Bay Mines Limited
Newmont owns approximately $72.4 million principal amount of the 11% capital securities due April 2027 of Echo Bay Mines Limited. Echo Bay is a gold company, which produced 667,000 ounces in 2001 from four mines in the United States and Canada.
At September 30, 2001, the principal plus accrued interest on the Echo Bay capital securities owned by Newmont amounted to $115.3 million. It is Newmont's intention to convert all its Echo Bay capital securities into Echo Bay common shares, representing an approximate 49.5% equity interest in Echo Bay. The conversion is subject to the approval of Echo Bay stockholders. A stockholder meeting is currently scheduled for March 25, 2002.
Lihir Gold
Newmont owns 111.3 million shares of Lihir Gold, representing a 9.74% interest and reflected in marketable securities of Lihir as a cost investment available for sale. Lihir Gold operates a gold mine in Papua New Guinea.
Recent Dispositions
Prior to its acquisition by Newmont, Franco-Nevada disposed of its interests in Aber Diamond Corporation and in warrants of Inco Limited, realizing proceeds of approximately $112 million.
Proven and Probable Reserves
Newmont has a significant reserve base, having steadily increased its economic reserves over the past decade through a combination of exploration success, acquisitions, and lower production costs. In light of this, the company reduced its exploration expenditures in 2001 and directed its drilling program toward targets with a longer time horizon than the normal year-end reserve calculation.
As a result, Newmont ended 2001 with equity reserves of 59.6 million ounces of gold and 6 billion pounds of copper, representing declines of 10% and 2%, respectively, from year-end 2000. Depletion of 6.8 million ounces from production reflected an overall recovery rate of nearly 80%. As in 2000, reserves were calculated at a long-term gold price of $300 per ounce. Newmont's 2001 reserves would decline 6.9% to 55.5 million ounces if calculated at a $275 per ounce gold price, while an increase in the gold price to $325 per ounce would increase reserves by 5% to 62.6 million ounces.
At year-end, Newmont's North American gold reserves were 31.4 million equity ounces (including 29.0 million ounces in Nevada) compared with 35.2 million equity ounces (32.3 million ounces in Nevada) in 2000.
Overseas, year-end gold reserves of 28.2 million ounces compared with 31.1 million ounces a year earlier. In Peru, reserves at Minera Yanacocha decreased 6.5% to 34.2 million ounces (17.6 million equity ounces).
At Batu Hijau, gold reserves decreased 800,000 ounces to 10.9 million ounces (6.1 million equity ounces). Copper reserves declined slightly to 9.75 billion pounds (5.5 billion equity pounds).
With the acquisition in 2002 of Normandy Mining Limited, Newmont has worldwide equity gold reserves of 86.0 million ounces (based on Normandy's reported reserves as of June 30, 2001). Not included in reserves are Franco- Nevada's royalty interests, equivalent to 2 million ounces of gold, or Franco- Nevada's expected 49.5% interest in Echo Bay (equivalent to 1.9 million ounces). Franco-Nevada's acquisition of an equity interest in Echo Bay is subject to the approval of Echo Bay stockholders and is conditional on regulatory approvals. For more information see Item 2, Properties, on page 26 above.
Proven and probable reserves are based on extensive drilling, sampling, mine modeling and metallurgical testing from which economic feasibility has been determined. The price sensitivity of reserves depends upon several factors including grade, waste-to-ore ratio, and ore type. The reserves are estimated based on information available at the time the reserves are calculated. Included in Newmont's reserves are 680,794 ounces of gold committed under a prepaid forward sales contract. Recovery rates vary depending on the metallurgical properties of each deposit and the production process used. The reserve tables list the average recovery rate for each deposit, which takes into account the several different processing methods scheduled to be used. The cutoff grade, or lowest grade of mineralized material considered economic to process, varies with material type, metallurgical recoveries, and operating costs.
The proven and probable reserves figures presented herein are estimates, and no assurance can be given that the indicated levels of recovery of gold and copper will be realized. Ounces of gold or pounds of copper in the proven and probable reserves are prior to any losses during metallurgical treatment. Reserve estimates may require revision based on actual production experience. Market price fluctuations of gold, and copper, as well as increased production costs or reduced recovery rates, could render proven and probable reserves containing relatively lower grades of mineralization uneconomic to exploit and might result in a reduction of reserves.
Reserves are published once each year and will be recalculated as of December 31, 2002, for the entire company, taking into account depletion as well as any additions to reserves based on results of exploration and development work performed during 2002.
Newmont Mining Corporation Gold Proven and Probable Reserves(/1/)--U.S. Units--$300/oz Reflects only Gold Proven and Probable Reserves owned by Newmont Mining Corporation on December 31, 2001
Newmont Mining Corporation Copper Proven and Probable Reserves(/1/)--U.S. Units Reflects only Copper Proven and Probable Reserves owned by Newmont Mining Corporation on December 31, 2001
- -------- (1) The term "reserve" means that part of a mineral deposit which can be economically and legally extracted or produced at the time of the reserve determination.
The term "economically," as used in the definition of reserve, implies that profitable extraction or production has been established or analytically demonstrated to be viable and justifiable under reasonable investment and market assumptions.
The term "legally," as used in the definition of reserve, does not imply that all permits needed for mining and processing have been obtained or that other legal issues have been completely resolved. However, for a reserve to exist, there should be a reasonable certainty based on applicable laws and regulations that issuance of permits or resolution of legal issues can be accomplished in a timely manner.
The term "proven reserves" means reserves for which (a) quantity is computed from dimensions revealed in outcrops, trenches, workings or drill holes; (b) grade and/or quality are computed from the result of detailed sampling and (c) the sites for inspection, sampling and measurements are spaced so closely and the geologic character is sufficiently defined that size, shape, depth and mineral content of reserves are well established.
The term "probable reserves" means reserves for which quantity and grade are computed from information similar to that used for proven reserves but the sites for sampling are farther apart or are otherwise less adequately spaced. The degree of assurance, although lower than that for proven reserves, is high enough to assume continuity between points of observation.
Proven and probable reserves were calculated using different cutoff grades depending on each deposit's properties. The term "cut-off grade" means the lowest grade of mineralized rock that can be included in the reserve in a given deposit. Cut-off grades vary between deposits depending upon prevailing economic conditions, mineability of the deposit, amenability of the ore to gold extraction, and milling or leaching facilities available.
(2) Tonnages are after allowances for losses resulting from mining methods.
(3) Ounces or pounds are estimates of metal contained in ore tonnages and are before allowances for processing losses. Estimated losses from processing are expressed as recovery rates and represent the estimated amount of metal to be recovered through metallurgical extraction processes.
(4) Cutoff grades utilized in 2001 were as follows: oxide leach material not less than 0.006 ounce per ton; oxide mill cutoffs varied; refractory leach materials not less than 0.024 ounce per ton; refractory mill material not less than 0.055 ounce per ton.
(5) These reserves are approximately 74.6% refractory in nature, which are not amenable to the direct cyanidation recovery processes currently used for oxide material. Such ore must be oxidized before it is subjected to the normal recovery processes or concentrated for shipment to smelters.
(6) Mining completed in 2001. Remaining reserves are in-process on the leach pad.
(7) Calculated using a cut-off grade of 0.15 ounce per ton.
(8) Percentage reflects Newmont's equity interest in remaining reserves. In 2000, this percentage was 88.3%. Reserves calculated using a cutoff grade not less than 0.088 ounce per ton.
(9) Calculated using a cut-off grade of 0.010 ounce per ton. All ore is oxidized.
(10) Calculated using variable cut-off grades not less than 0.006 ounce of gold per ton. The cutoff grade is a function of both gold and silver content. All ore is oxidized.
(11) Calculated using a cut-off grade of 0.010 ounce per ton for oxide leach and not less than 0.023 for mill.
(12) Calculated using a cut-off grade of 0.12 ounce per ton.
(13) Material available to Zarafshan-Newmont for processing from designated stockpiles or from other specified sources. Tonnage and gold content of material available to Zarafshan-Newmont for processing from such designated stockpiles or from other specified sources are guaranteed by state entities of Uzbekistan. Material is crushed to liberate the gold and leached.
(14) Percentage reflects Newmont's economic interest in remaining reserves. In 2000, this percentage was 95.9%.
(15) Operations commenced in late 1999. Production is in the form of a copper- gold concentrate. Cut-off grade and recoveries vary depending on the gold and copper content. The cut-off grade used for reserve reporting is equivalent to 0.33% copper. Percentage reflects Newmont's economic interest in remaining reserves, unchanged from 2000.
(16) Included in the reserves are 680,794 ounces of gold committed under a pre-paid forward sales contract.
ITEM 3.