ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
We conduct all of our drilling, exploration and production activities in the United States. All of our crude oil assets are located in the United States, and all of our revenues are derived from sales to customers within the United States. During the year ended February 28, 2018, we were involved in continuing operations of an oilfield project in Kern County, California.
On October 31, 2016, we completed the sale of our crude oil and natural gas interest in the Twin Bottoms Field located in Lawrence County, Kentucky. As a result of this sale and the restructuring of its Balance Sheet, the Company recognized income of $394,623 on discontinued operations which includes; an approximate $1.96 million loss on the sale of oil and natural gas properties; a reduction of $4.5 million in debt associated with Kentucky; a loss on note receivable settlement of approximately $1.5 million; and gain on debt settlement of approximately $3.9 million with its lender Maximilian for the twelve months ended February 28, 2017.
In January 2017, Daybreak acquired a 30% working interest in 1,400 acres in the Michigan Basin where we have two shallow crude oil prospects. The leases have been secured and multiple targets have been identified through a 2-D seismic interpretation. A 3-D seismic survey was obtained in January and February of 2017 on the first prospect. An analysis of the 3-D seismic survey confirmed the first prospect identified on the 2-D seismic, as well as identified several additional drilling locations. We will obtain 3-D survey on the second prospect after drilling a well on the first prospect however, the two prospects are independent of each other and the success or failure of either one does not effect the other. The wells will be drilled vertically with conventional completions and no hydraulic fracturing will be required. The first well is expected to be drilled during the late summer of 2018.
We have not filed any estimates of total, proved net crude oil or natural gas reserves with any federal agency other than this report to the SEC for the fiscal year ended February 28, 2018. Throughout this Annual Report on Form 10-K, crude oil is shown in barrels (“Bbls”); natural gas is shown in thousands of cubic feet (“Mcf”) or British Thermal Units (“BTU”) unless otherwise specified, and hydrocarbon totals are expressed in barrels of oil equivalent (“BOE”).
Kern County, California (East Slopes Project)
The East Slopes Project is located in the southeastern part of the San Joaquin Basin near Bakersfield, California. Drilling targets are porous and permeable sandstone reservoirs that exist at depths of 1,200 feet to 4,500 feet. Since January 2009, we have participated in the drilling of 25 wells in this project. We have been the Operator at the East Slopes Project since March 2009.
Our 20 vertical crude oil wells in the East Slopes Project produce from five reservoirs at our Sunday, Bear, Black, Ball and Dyer Creek locations. The Sunday property has six producing wells, while the Bear property has nine producing wells. The Black property is the smallest of all currently producing reservoirs, and currently has two producing wells at this property. The Ball property also has two producing wells while the Dyer Creek property has one producing well. Our average working interest and NRI in these 20 producing crude oil wells is 36.6% and 28.5%, respectively.
There are several other similar prospects on trend with the Bear, Black and Dyer Creek reservoirs exhibiting the same seismic characteristics. Some of these prospects, if successful, would utilize the Company’s existing production facilities. In addition to the current field development, there are several other exploratory prospects that have been identified from the seismic data, which we plan to drill in the future.
Sunday Central Processing and Storage Facility
The crude oil produced from our acreage in California is considered heavy crude oil. The crude oil ranges from 14° to 16° API gravity. All of the crude oil from our five producing properties is processed, stored and sold from the Sunday central processing and storage facility. The crude oil must be heated to separate and remove water to prepare it to be sold. We constructed these facilities during the summer and fall of 2009 and at the same time established electrical service for our field by constructing three miles of power lines. In 2013, we completed an upgrade to this facility including the addition of a second crude oil storage tank to handle the additional crude oil production from the wells drilled in 2013.
By utilizing the Sunday centralized production facility our average operating costs have been reduced from over $40 per barrel in 2009 to approximately $13 per barrel of crude oil for the year ended February 28, 2018. With this centralized facility and having permanent electrical power available, we are ensuring that our operating expenses are kept to a minimum.
California Producing Properties
Sunday Property
In November 2008, we made our initial crude oil discovery drilling the Sunday #1 well. The well was put on production in January 2009. Production is from the Vedder Sand at approximately 2,000 feet. During 2009, we drilled three development wells including one horizontal well: the Sunday #2, Sunday #3 and Sunday #4H wells, respectively. During May and June 2013, we drilled two additional development wells: the Sunday #5 and Sunday #6. We have a 37.5% working interest with a 26.1% net revenue interest (“NRI”) in the Sunday #1 well. For the Sunday #2 and Sunday #3 wells, we have a 33.8% working interest with a 24.3% NRI. In the Sunday #4H well, we have a 33.8% working interest with a 27.1% NRI. In both the Sunday #5 and Sunday #6 wells we have a 37.5% working interest and a NRI of 30.1%. Our average working interest and NRI for the Sunday property six producing wells in aggregate is 35.6% and 27.0%, respectively. The Sunday reservoir is estimated to be approximately 35 acres in size with the potential for at least five more development wells to be drilled in the future.
Bear Property
In February 2009, we made our second crude oil discovery drilling the Bear #1 well, which is approximately one mile northwest of our Sunday discovery. The well was put on production in May 2009. Production is from the Vedder Sand at approximately 2,200 feet. In December 2009, we began a development program on this property by drilling and completing the Bear #2 well. In April 2010, we successfully drilled and completed the Bear #3 and the Bear #4 wells. In May and June 2013, we drilled three additional development wells, the Bear #5, Bear #6 and Bear #7, on this property. In November 2013, we drilled and put on production two additional development wells: the Bear #8 and Bear #9. We have a 37.5% working interest in all wells on the Bear property. Our NRI in the Bear #1, Bear #2, Bear #3 and Bear #4 wells is 26.1%. For the Bear #5, Bear #6 and Bear #7 wells our NRI is 30.1%. Our NRI in the Bear #8 and Bear #9 wells is 31.7%. The average working interest and NRI for the Bear property for the ten producing wells in aggregate is 37.5% and 28.7%, respectively. The Bear reservoir is estimated to be approximately 62 acres in size with the potential for at least ten more development wells to be drilled in the future.
Black Property
The Black property was acquired through a farm-in arrangement with a local operator. The Black property is just south of the Bear property on the same fault system. The Black #1 well was completed and put on production in January 2010. Production is from the Vedder Sand at approximately 2,200 feet. In May 2013, we drilled a development well, the Black #2, on this property. We have a 33.8% working interest with a 26.8% NRI in the two producing wells on this property. The Black reservoir is estimated to be approximately 13 acres in size with the potential for at least three more development wells to be drilled in the future.
Ball Property
The Ball #1-11 well was put on production in late October 2010. In June 2013 we drilled a development well, the Ball #2-11, on this property. Production on this property is from the Vedder Sand at approximately 2,500 feet. We have a 37.5% working interest with a 31.2% NRI in the two producing wells on this property. Our 3-D seismic data indicates a reservoir of approximately 38 acres in size with the potential for at least three more development wells to be drilled in the future.
Dyer Creek Property
The Dyer Creek #67X-11 (“DC67X”) well was also put on production in late October 2010. This well produces from the Vedder Sand and is located to the north of the Bear property on the same trapping fault. We have a 37.5% working interest with a 31.2% NRI in all wells on this property. The Dyer Creek property has the potential for at least one development well in the future.
California Drilling Plans
Planned drilling activity and implementation of our oilfield development plan will not begin until there is a sustained improvement in crude oil prices and additional financing is put in place. We plan to spend approximately $10,000 in new capital investments within the East Slopes Project area in the 2018-2019 fiscal year if no new financing is in place. If new financing is secured, we plan to drill four development wells for a total of $525,000.
Michigan Acreage Acquisition
In January 2017, Daybreak acquired a 30% working interest in 1,400 acres in the Michigan Basin where we have two shallow crude oil prospects. The leases have been secured and multiple targets have been identified through a 2-D seismic interpretation. A 3-D seismic survey was obtained in January and February of 2017. An analysis of the seismic survey confirmed the prospect identified on the 2-D seismic, as well as identified several additional drilling locations. We will obtain an additional 3-D survey to better delineate the other locations before a drilling program commences. The wells will be drilled vertically with conventional completions and no hydraulic fracturing will be required. The first well is expected to be drilled during the late summer of 2018.
Encumbrances
The Company’s debt obligations, pursuant to a credit facility loan agreement and promissory notes with Maximilian Resources LLC, a Delaware limited liability company and successor by assignment to Maximilian Investors LLC, a Delaware limited liability company, as lender, (either party, as appropriate, is referred to in this Annual Report on Form 10-K as “Maximilian”), and the Company are secured by a perfected first priority security interest in substantially all of the personal property of the Company, and two mortgages; one covering our leases in California and the other covering our leases in Michigan. For further information on the loan agreement refer to the discussion under the caption “Current debt (short-term borrowings)” in the MD&A portion of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Reserves
Crude oil is shown in barrels (“Bbls”); natural gas is shown in thousands of cubic feet (“Mcf”) or British Thermal Units (“BTU”) unless otherwise specified, and hydrocarbon totals are expressed in barrels of oil equivalent (“BOE”). The following table sets forth our estimated net quantities of proved reserves as of February 28, 2018.
On October 31, 2016, we sold our non-operated working interest in crude oil and natural gas properties located in the Twin Bottoms Field in Lawrence County, Kentucky. As of February 28, 2018, our total reserves were comprised of our working interest in East Slopes Project located in Kern County, California.
Changes in our estimated net proved reserves for the twelve months ended February 28, 2018 are set forth in the table below.
Revisions. Net upward revisions of 35,099 BOE in aggregate were due to higher realized hydrocarbons prices in California during the twelve months ended February 28, 2018 increasing the economic life of our proved reserves.
Discoveries and extensions. For the twelve months ended February 28, 2018, there were 24,639 BOE in extensions in California due to higher realized hydrocarbon prices.
Production. Production in California was 12,741 BOE in aggregate of proved reserves for the twelve months ended February 28, 2018.
As of February 28, 2018, our total proved undeveloped reserves were comprised of our interests in Kern County, California.
Changes in our estimated net proved undeveloped reserves for the twelve months ended February 28, 2018 are set forth in the table below.
Revisions. There were net upward revisions of 12,593 BOE in aggregate due to higher realized hydrocarbons prices during the twelve months ended February 28, 2018 increasing the economic life of our proved undeveloped reserves.
Discoveries and extensions. For the twelve months ended February 28, 2018, there were there were 24,639 BOE in extensions in California due to higher realized hydrocarbon prices.
Our estimated net proved developed producing reserves of continuing operations in California at February 28, 2018 are set forth in the table below.
Our estimated net proved undeveloped reserves of continuing operations in California at February 28, 2018 are set forth in the table below.
The Company has 29,940 Bbls of proved undeveloped reserves that have remained undeveloped for a period greater than five years. These proved undeveloped reserves have remained undeveloped due to the period of depressed crude oil and natural gas prices that we have experienced resulting in a lack of capital available for drilling. Under our current drilling plans, we intend to convert all 318,592 BOE or 100.0% of the proved undeveloped reserves disclosed as of February 28, 2018 to proved developed reserves within the next five years.
Our estimated proved reserves (BOE) and PV-10 valuation of continuing operations in California at February 28, 2018 are set forth in the table below.
The present value of future net cash flows from proved reserves, before deductions for estimated future income taxes and asset retirement obligations, discounted at 10% (“PV-10”), was approximately $3.2 million at February 28, 2018 a increase of approximately $1.5 million or 88.6% from the PV-10 reserve valuation at February 28, 2017. This increase is due to the increase from our average realized price of crude oil sales in comparison to the average realized price from the prior twelve month period. The commodity prices used to estimate proved reserves and their related PV-10 at February 28, 2018 were based on the 12-month unweighted arithmetic average of the first-day-of-the-month price for the twelve month period from March 2017 through February 2018. The benchmark average price for the twelve months ended February 28, 2018 was $52.89 per barrel of crude oil in comparison to $45.85 in the prior year reserve report.
These benchmark average prices were further adjusted for crude oil quality and gravity, transportation fees and other price differentials resulting in an average realized price in California for the February 28, 2018 reserve report of $50.29 in comparison to $35.91 in the February 28, 2017 reserve report. Adverse changes in any price differential would reduce our cash flow from operations and the PV-10 of our proved reserves. Operating costs were not escalated.
PV-10 is not a generally accepted accounting principal (“GAAP”) financial measure, but we believe it is useful as a supplemental disclosure to the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows presented in our financial statements. The PV-10 of proved reserves is based on prices and discount factors that are consistent for all companies and can be used within the industry and by securities analysts to evaluate proved reserves on a comparable basis.
Reserve Estimation
All of our estimated proved reserves of 428,067 BOE for the twelve months ended February 28, 2018 were derived from engineering reports prepared by PGH Petroleum and Environmental Engineers, LLC (“PGH”) of Austin, Texas in accordance with generally accepted petroleum engineering and evaluation principles and definitions and guidelines established by the SEC.
PGH is an independent petroleum engineering consulting firm registered in the State of Texas, and Frank J. Muser, a Petroleum Engineer, is the technical person at PGH primarily responsible for evaluating the proved reserves covered by their report. Mr. Muser graduated from the University of Texas at Austin with a Bachelor of Science degree in Chemical Engineering. He is a licensed Professional Engineer in the states of Texas, Alabama, Kansas, North Dakota and West Virginia and has been employed by PGH as a staff engineer since 2012. Mr. Muser has over 20 years of extensive crude oil and natural gas experience working in both private industry and for the State of Texas. The services provided by PGH are not audits of our reserves but instead consist of complete engineering evaluations of the respective properties. For more information about the evaluations performed by PGH, refer to the copy of their report filed as an exhibit to this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Our internal controls over the reserve reporting process are designed to result in accurate and reliable estimates in compliance with applicable regulations and guidance. Internal reserve preparation is performed by Bobby Ray Greer, Director of Field Operations. Mr. Greer is a 1984 graduate of University of Southern Mississippi in Hattiesburg, Mississippi with a Bachelor of Science Degree in Geology and is a certified Petroleum Geologist and a member, in good standing, of the American Association of Professional Geologists. Mr. Greer has over 30 years of experience in petroleum exploration, reservoir analysis, drilling rig construction, oilfield operations and management.
Although we believe that the estimates of reserves prepared by Mr. Greer have been prepared in accordance with professional engineering standards consistent with SEC and FASB guidelines, we engage an independent petroleum engineering consultant to prepare an annual evaluation of our estimated proved reserves. We provide to PGH for their analysis all pertinent data needed to properly evaluate our reserves. We consult regularly with PGH during the reserve estimation process to review properties, assumptions, and any new data available. Additionally, the Company’s senior management reviewed and approved all Daybreak reserve report information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Under current SEC standards, proved reserves are those quantities of crude oil and natural gas, which, by analysis of geoscience and engineering data, can be estimated with reasonable certainty to be economically producible from a given date forward, from known reservoirs, and under existing economic conditions, operating methods, and government regulations. The term “reasonable certainty” implies a high degree of confidence that the quantities of crude oil and/or natural gas actually recovered will equal or exceed the estimate. Reasonable certainty can be established using techniques that have been proved effective by actual production from projects in the same reservoir or an analogous reservoir or by other evidence using reliable technology that establishes reasonable certainty. Reliable technology is a grouping of one or more technologies (including computational methods) that have been field-tested and have demonstrated to provide reasonably certain results with consistency and repeatability in the formation being evaluated or in an analogous formation.
In order to establish reasonable certainty with respect to our estimated proved reserves, we employ technologies that have been demonstrated to yield results with consistency and repeatability. The technical data used in the estimation of our proved reserves include, but are not limited to, electrical logs, radioactivity logs, core analyses, geologic maps and available downhole and production data, seismic data and well test data. Generally, crude oil and natural gas reserves are estimated using, as appropriate, one or more of these available methods: production decline curve analysis, analogy to similar reservoirs or volumetric calculations. Reserves attributable to producing wells with sufficient production history are estimated using appropriate decline curves or other performance relationships. Reserves attributable to producing wells with limited production history and for undeveloped locations are estimated using performance from analogous wells in the surrounding area and technical data to assess the reservoir continuity. In some instances, particularly in connection with exploratory discoveries, analogous performance data is not available, requiring us to rely primarily on volumetric calculations to determine reserve quantities. Volumetric calculations are primarily based on data derived from geologic-based seismic interpretation, open-hole logs and completion flow data. When using production decline curve analysis or analogy to estimate proved reserves, we limit our estimates to the quantities of crude oil derived through volumetric calculations.
The accuracy of any reserve estimate is a function of the quality of available geological, geophysical, engineering and economic data, the precision of the engineering and geological interpretation and judgment. The estimates of reserves and future cash flows are based on various assumptions and are inherently imprecise. Although we believe these estimates are reasonable, actual future production, cash flows, taxes, development expenditures, operating expenses and quantities of recoverable crude oil reserves may vary substantially from these estimates. Also, the use of a 10% discount factor for reporting purposes may not necessarily represent the most appropriate discount factor, given actual interest rates and risks to which our business or the crude oil and natural gas industry in general are subject.
Delivery Commitments
As of February 28, 2018, we had no commitments to provide any fixed or determinable quantities of crude oil or natural gas in the near future under contracts or agreements.
Summary Operating Data
The following table sets forth our net share of annual production in each project for the periods shown. One barrel of crude oil equivalent (“BOE”) is roughly equivalent to 6,000 cubic feet or 6 Mcf of gas.
On October 31, 2016, we sold our non-operated working interest in crude oil and natural gas properties located in the Twin Bottoms Field in Lawrence County, Kentucky. As of February 28, 2018, our total reserves were comprised of our working interest in East Slopes Project located in Kern County, California.
The following table sets forth our net share of crude oil and natural gas revenue by project area for the periods shown.
The following table sets forth the average realized sales price from each project area for the periods shown.
The following table sets forth the average production expense (BOE) for the periods shown.
Gross and Net Acreage
The following table sets forth our interests in developed and undeveloped crude oil lease acreage in California and our undeveloped crude oil lease acreage in Michigan held by us as of February 28, 2018. These ownership interests generally take the form of working interests in crude oil leases that have varying terms. Developed acreage includes leased acreage that is allocated or assignable to producing wells. Undeveloped acreage includes leased acres on which wells have not been drilled or completed to a point that would permit the production of commercial quantities of crude oil, regardless of whether or not the acreage contains proved reserves. Gross acres represents the total number of acres in which we have an interest. Net acres represents the sum of our fractional working interests owned in the gross acres.
Undeveloped Acreage Expirations
The following table sets forth expiration dates of our gross and net undeveloped acres from continuing operations in California for the years shown.
In all cases the drilling of a commercial crude oil or natural gas well will hold acreage beyond the lease expiration date. In the past we have been able to, and expect in the future to be able to extend the lease terms of some of these leases. The expirations included in the table above do not take into account the fact that we may be able to extend the lease terms. We do not expect to lose significant lease acreage because of failure to drill due to inadequate capital, equipment or personnel. However, based on our evaluation of prospective economics, we have allowed acreage to expire from time to time and we expect to allow additional acreage to expire in the future. In California, we have previously determined that there is no likely benefit to pursuing any drilling opportunities on the majority of the expiring leases, so the expiration of these leases is expected to be immaterial to our operations. Further, none of our proved undeveloped reserves have been assigned to locations that are scheduled to be drilled after the expiration of the current leases. In California, all of our proved undeveloped reserves are assigned to leases that are currently held by production (“HBP”).
Producing Wells
The following table sets forth our gross and net productive crude oil wells from continuing operations in California as of February 28, 2018. Productive wells are producing wells and wells capable of production. Gross wells represent the total number of wells in which we have an interest. Net wells represent the sum of our fractional working interests owned in the gross wells.
Drilling Activity
The following table sets forth our exploratory and development well drilling activity from continuing operations in California for the periods shown.
ITEM 3.