ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
Gold and Copper Processing Methods
Gold is extracted from naturally-oxidized ores by either heap leaching or milling, depending on the amount of gold contained in the ore and the amenability of the ore to treatment. Higher grade oxide ores are generally processed through mills, where the ore is ground into a fine powder and mixed with water in slurry, which then passes through a cyanide leaching circuit. Lower grade oxide ores are generally processed using heap leaching. Heap leaching consists of stacking crushed or run-of-mine ore on impermeable pads, where a weak cyanide solution is applied to the top surface of the heap to dissolve the gold. In both cases, the gold-bearing solution is then collected and pumped to process facilities to remove the gold by collection on carbon or by zinc precipitation directly from leach solutions.
Gold contained in ores that are not naturally oxidized can be directly milled if the gold is amenable to cyanidization, generally known as free milling ores. Ores that are not amenable to cyanidization, known as refractory ores, require more costly and complex processing techniques than oxide or free milling ore. Higher-grade refractory ores are processed through either roasters or autoclaves. Roasters heat finely ground ore with air and oxygen to a high temperature, burn off the carbon and oxidize the sulfide minerals that prevent efficient leaching. Autoclaves use heat, oxygen and pressure to oxidize sulfide minerals in the ore.
Some gold-bearing sulfide ores may be processed through a flotation plant or by bio-milling. In flotation, ore is finely ground, turned into slurry, then placed in a tank known as a flotation cell. Chemicals are added to the slurry causing the gold-containing sulfides to float in air bubbles to the top of the tank, where they can be separated from waste particles that sink to the bottom. The sulfides are removed from the cell and converted into a concentrate that can then be processed in an autoclave or roaster to recover the gold. Bio-milling incorporates patented technology that involves inoculation of suitable crushed ore on a leach pad with naturally occurring bacteria strains, which oxidize the sulfides over a period of time. The ore is then processed through an oxide mill.
At Batu Hijau, mined ore containing copper and gold is crushed to a coarse size at the mine and then transported from the mine via conveyor to a concentrator. The ore is finely ground and then treated by successive stages of flotation, resulting in a concentrate of copper sulfides containing approximately 30% copper. The concentrate is transferred by pipeline to port facilities. At the port, the concentrate is dewatered and stored for later reclaiming and loading onto ships for transport to smelters.
Newmont Properties
Production Properties
Set forth below is a description of the significant production properties of Newmont and its subsidiaries. Total cash costs and total production costs for each operation are presented in a table in the next section of this Item 2. Total cash costs and total production costs represent measures of performance that are not calculated in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”). Management uses these non-GAAP financial measures to analyze the cash generating capacities and performance of Newmont’s mining operations. For a reconciliation of these non-GAAP measures to Costs Applicable to Sales as calculated and presented under GAAP, see Item 2, Properties, Operating Statistics.
North America
Nevada. Newmont has been mining gold in Nevada since 1965. Newmont’s Nevada operations include Carlin, located west of the city of Elko on the geologic feature known as the Carlin Trend, the Twin Creeks mine approximately 15 miles north of Golconda, the Lone Tree Complex near the town of Valmy, and the Midas mine near the town of the same name. Newmont also participates in the Turquoise Ridge joint venture with Placer
Dome, which utilizes mill capacity at Twin Creeks. The Phoenix gold/copper project located 10 miles south of Battle Mountain, is under construction with production expected in mid-2006.
Gold sales from Newmont’s Nevada operations totaled approximately 2.4 million equity ounces for 2004. Ore was mined from 13 open pit mines and four underground mines in 2004. In 2005, initial production will commence at Leeville on the Carlin Trend, the first shaft accessed mine constructed by Newmont in Nevada. Ore production is expected to begin in late 2005 with an annual production rate of 450,000 to 500,000 ounces. At Phoenix, construction commenced in 2004 for this gold/copper project. Upon completion in mid-2006, 370,000 to 420,000 ounces of gold and 16 to 40 million pounds of copper will be produced annually.
At year-end 2004, Newmont reported 34 million equity ounces of gold reserves in Nevada. These reserves are distributed 80% at open pit mines and 20% in underground mines. Process methods assumed over the reserve base are 74% refractory and 26% oxide. Refractory ores require more complex, higher cost processing methods. Refractory ore treatment facilities generated 66% of Nevada’s gold production in 2004, compared with 71% in 2003, and 66% in 2002. In 2005, the percentage of production from refractory treatment facilities is expected to be approximately 67%. Thereafter, the percentage of production from refractory ores is expected to range between 69%-75%.
Newmont’s Nevada operations produce gold from a variety of ore types requiring different processing techniques depending on economic and metallurgical characteristics. To schedule the best use of processing capacity, the Company uses a linear programming model to guide the flow of both mining sequence selection and routing of ore streams to various plants. Higher-grade oxide ores are processed by conventional milling and cyanide leaching at Carlin (Mill 5), Twin Creeks (Juniper) and Lone Tree. Lower-grade material with suitable cyanide solubility is treated on heap leach pads at Carlin, Twin Creeks and Lone Tree. Higher-grade refractory ores are processed through either a roaster at Carlin (Mill 6) or through autoclaves at Twin Creeks (Sage) and Lone Tree. Lower-grade refractory ores are processed by a flotation plant at Lone Tree and either bio-oxidation/flotation or direct flotation at Mill 5. Ore from the Midas mine is processed by conventional milling and Merrill-Crowe zinc precipitation. Activated carbon from the various leaching circuits is treated to produce gold ore at Carlin and Twin Creeks. Zinc precipitate at Midas is refined on-site.
Newmont owns, or controls through long-term mining leases and unpatented mining claims, all of the minerals and surface area within the boundaries of the present Nevada mining operations (except for Turquoise Ridge and Getchell described below). The long-term leases extend for at least the anticipated mine life of those deposits. With respect to a significant portion of the Gold Quarry mine at Carlin, Newmont owns a 10% undivided interest in the mineral rights and leases the remaining 90%, on which Newmont pays a royalty equivalent to 18% of the mineral production. The remainder of the Gold Quarry mineral rights are wholly-owned or controlled by Newmont, in some cases subject to additional royalties. With respect to certain smaller deposits in the Winnemucca Region, Newmont is obligated to pay royalties on production to third parties that vary from 2% to 5% of production.
Newmont has a 25% interest in a joint venture with a subsidiary of Placer Dome Inc. to operate the Turquoise Ridge and Getchell mines. Newmont has an agreement to provide up to 2,000 tons per day of milling capacity at Newmont’s Twin Creeks facility to the joint venture. Placer Dome is the operator of the joint venture for mining and ore delivery to process. Gold sales of 40,700 ounces were attributed to Newmont in 2004, based on its 25% ownership interest.
Newmont has an ore sale agreement with Barrick Goldstrike Mines to provide feed to the facilities operated by Barrick on the Carlin Trend. The agreement provides for the sale of whole ore to Barrick. Newmont recognizes attributed gold sales net of the sale price, resulting in gold sales of 28,200 ounces in 2004.
Canada. Newmont’s Canadian operations include two underground mines. The Golden Giant mine (100% owned) is located approximately 25 miles (40 kilometers) east of Marathon in Ontario, Canada, and has been in production since 1985. The Holloway mine is located approximately 35 miles (56 kilometers) east of Matheson
in Ontario, and about 400 miles (644 kilometers) northeast of Golden Giant, and has been in production since 1996. The Holloway mine is owned by a joint venture in which Newmont has an 84.65% interest. The remaining 15.35% interest is held by Teddy Bear Valley Mines. In 2004, the Golden Giant mine sold 160,000 equity ounces of gold, and the Holloway mine sold 67,400 equity ounces of gold.
Mexico. Newmont has a 44% interest in the La Herradura mine, which is located in Mexico’s Sonora desert. La Herradura is operated by Industriales Peñoles. The mine is an open pit operation with run-of-mine heap leach recovery. La Herradura sold 68,800 equity ounces of gold in 2004.
South America
Peru. The properties of Minera Yanacocha S.R.L. (“Yanacocha”) are located approximately 375 miles (604 kilometers) north of Lima and 30 miles (48 kilometers) north of the city of Cajamarca. Yanacocha began production in 1993. Newmont holds a 51.35% interest in Yanacocha. The remaining interests are held by Compañia de Minas Buenaventura, S.A.A. (43.65%) and the International Finance Corporation (5%).
Yanacocha has mining rights with respect to a large land position. Yanacocha’s mining rights were acquired through assignments of concessions granted by the Peruvian government to a related entity. These mining concessions provide for both the right to explore and exploit. However, Yanacocha must first obtain the respective exploration and exploitation permits, which are generally granted in due course. Yanacocha may retain mining concessions indefinitely by paying annual fees and, during exploitation, complying with production obligations or paying assessed fines. Mining concessions are freely assignable or transferable. In 2000, Newmont and Buenaventura consolidated their land holdings in northern Peru, folding them into Yanacocha. The consolidation increased Yanacocha’s land position from 100 to 535 square miles.
The Yanacocha operations contain the Minas Conga deposit, for which a feasibility study was completed in 2004. Yanacocha added 8.7 million ounces of gold (4.5 million equity ounces) and 2.2 billion pounds of copper (1.1 million equity pounds) to proven and probable reserves at Minas Conga in 2004.
Yanacocha has five separate open pit mines, Carachugo, San José, Maqui Maqui, Cerro Yanacocha and La Quinua. Reclamation and/or backfilling activities in the mining areas of Carachugo, San José and Maqui Maqui are currently underway. Cerro Yanacocha and La Quinua are still active pits. In addition, Yanacocha has four leach pads and three processing facilities. Yanacocha’s gold sales for 2004 totaled 3.04 million ounces (1.56 million equity ounces).
Cerro Quilish is one of the ore deposits within the Yanacocha complex. In July 2004, Yanacocha received a drilling permit for the Cerro Quilish deposit and commenced drilling activities to further define the deposit. During September 2004, individuals from the Cajamarca region conducted a sustained blockade of the road between the City of Cajamarca and the mine site, in protest of these exploration activities. Yanacocha suspended all drilling activities at Cerro Quilish and the blockade was resolved. At the request of Yanacocha, the Cerro Quilish drilling permit was revoked in November 2004. Yanacocha has reassessed the challenges involved in obtaining required permits for Cerro Quilish primarily related to increased community concerns. Based upon this reassessment, Yanacocha has reclassified 3.9 million ounces (1.98 million equity ounces) of gold from proven and probable reserves to mineralized material not in reserves as of December 31, 2004.
Bolivia. The Kori Kollo open pit mine is on a high plain in northwestern Bolivia near Oruro, on government mining concessions issued to a Bolivian corporation, Empresa Minera Inti Raymi S.A. (“Inti Raymi”), in which Newmont has an 88% interest. The remaining 12% is owned by Mrs. Beatriz Rocabado. Inti Raymi owns and operates the mine. In 2004, the mine sold 21,700 equity ounces of gold. Mining was completed and the mill closed in October 2003. Production has continued from residual leaching. Inti Raymi will begin processing oxide ores on leach pads from the Kori Chaca pit and reprocessing high-grade tailings on a new leach pad in 2005.
Australia/New Zealand
Prior to the acquisition of Normandy, Newmont owned a 50% interest in the Pajingo mine. The remaining 50% interest in Pajingo, and all other Australian and New Zealand properties described in this report, were acquired as part of the acquisition of Normandy in February 2002.
In Australia, mineral exploration and mining titles are granted by the individual states or territories. Mineral titles may also be subject to native title legislation. In 1992, the High Court of Australia held that Aboriginal people who have maintained a continuing connection with their land according to their traditions and customs may hold certain rights in respect of the land, such rights commonly referred to as native title. Since the High Court’s decision, Australia has passed legislation providing for the protection of native title and established procedures for Aboriginal people to claim these rights. The fact that native title is claimed with respect to an area, however, does not necessarily mean that native title exists, and disputes may be resolved by the courts.
Generally, under native title legislation, all mining titles granted before January 1, 1994 are valid. Titles granted between January 1, 1994 and December 23, 1996, however, may be subject to invalidation if they were not obtained in compliance with applicable legislative procedures, though subsequent legislation has validated some of these titles. After December 23, 1996, mining titles over areas where native title is claimed to exist became subject to legislative processes that generally give native title claimants the “right to negotiate” with the title applicant for compensation and other conditions. Native title holders do not have a veto over the granting of mining titles, but if agreement cannot be reached, the matter can be referred to the National Native Title Tribunal for decision.
Newmont does not expect that native title claims will have a material adverse effect on any of its operations in Australia. The High Court of Australia determined in an August 2002 decision, which refined and narrowed the scope of native title, that native title does not subsist in minerals in Western Australia and that the rights granted under a mining title would, to the extent inconsistent with asserted native title rights, operate to extinguish those native title rights. Generally, native title is only an issue for Newmont with respect to obtaining new mineral titles or moving from one form of title to another, for example, from an exploration title to a mining title. In these cases, the requirements for negotiation and the possibility of paying compensation may result in delay and increased costs for mining in the affected areas. Similarly, the process of conducting Aboriginal heritage surveys to identify and locate areas or sites of Aboriginal cultural significance can result in additional costs and delay in gaining access to land for exploration and mining-related activities.
In Australia, various ad valorem royalties are paid to state and territorial governments, typically based on a percentage of gross revenues.
Pajingo. The Pajingo mine is an underground mine located approximately 93 miles (150 kilometers) southwest of Townsville, Queensland and 45 miles (72 kilometers) south of the local township of Charters Towers. Prior to the Normandy acquisition, Newmont owned a 50% interest in Pajingo. Following the Normandy acquisition, Newmont owns 100% of Pajingo. In 2004, Pajingo sold 251,400 equity ounces of gold.
Yandal. In 2004, the Yandal operations consisted of the Bronzewing and Jundee mines situated approximately 435 miles (700 kilometers) northeast of Perth in Western Australia. The operations sold 379,300 equity ounces of gold in 2004. Newmont owns a 100% interest in Newmont Yandal Operations Pty Ltd, which owns and operates the Yandal mines and nearby mineral exploration licenses. The Wiluna mine, previously part of the Yandal operations, was sold in December 2003. The Bronzewing mine was sold during the third quarter of 2004.
Tanami. The Tanami operations include The Granites treatment plant and associated mining operations, which are located in the Northern Territory approximately 342 miles (550 kilometers) northwest of Alice Springs, adjacent to the Tanami highway, and the Dead Bullock Soak mining operations, approximately 25 miles (40 kilometers) west of The Granites. The Tanami operations also include the Groundrush deposit. Mining at the Groundrush open pit was completed in September 2004. Processing of stockpiles will continue through the first
quarter of 2005. The Tanami operations have been wholly-owned since April 2003, when Newmont acquired the minority interests in Newmont NFM by means of a scheme of arrangement and buy-back offer under Australian law.
The operations are predominantly focused on the Callie underground mine at Dead Bullock Soak, with mill feed supplemented by production stockpiles from the Dead Bullock Soak open pit and Windy Hill at The Granites. Ore from all of these operations is processed through The Granites plant with the exception of ore from Groundrush, which is processed through the Tanami plant. During 2004, the Tanami operations sold 658,000 equity ounces of gold.
Kalgoorlie. The Kalgoorlie operations comprise the Fimiston open pit (commonly referred to as the Super Pit) and Mt. Charlotte underground mine at Kalgoorlie-Boulder, 373 miles (600 kilometers) east of Perth. The mines are managed by Kalgoorlie Consolidated Gold Mines Pty Ltd for the joint venture owners, Newmont and Barrick Gold Corporation, each of which holds a 50% interest. The Super Pit is Australia’s largest gold mine, in terms of both gold production and total annual mining volume. During 2004, the Kalgoorlie operations sold 468,400 equity ounces of gold.
Martha. The Martha open pit mine is located within the town of Waihi, located approximately 68 miles (110 kilometers) southeast of Auckland, New Zealand. Newmont acquired the minority interests in the Martha mine in April 2003, giving it 100% ownership. During 2004, development commenced on the Favona underground deposit. Production from the Favona mine is scheduled for 2006. The operation sold 130,500 equity ounces of gold during 2004. The Martha mine does not currently pay royalties. Under new royalty arrangements, a royalty will apply to the Favona mine. The royalty rate is the greater of 1% of gross revenues from gold and silver sales, or 5% of accounting profit.
Boddington. Boddington is located 81 miles (130 kilometers) southeast of Perth in Western Australia. Boddington is owned by Newmont (44.4%), Anglo Gold Limited (33.3%) and Newcrest Mining Limited (22.2%). An updated feasibility study for the primary ore body is expected to be completed by the end of 2005, and restructuring of current management arrangements is under discussion.
Golden Grove. Golden Grove is located in Western Australia, approximately 217 miles (350 kilometers) north of Perth. The principal products are zinc and copper concentrates. Golden Grove has two underground mines at the Scuddles and Gossan Hill deposits. Golden Grove sold 43.5 million pounds of copper, 114.8 million pounds of zinc and 19,300 ounces of by-product gold during 2004.
Indonesia
Newmont operates Batu Hijau, a producer of copper/gold concentrates, in Indonesia. The Minahasa gold operation completed production in 2004.
Batu Hijau. Newmont has a 45% ownership interest in Batu Hijau. Newmont’s interest is held through a partnership with an affiliate of Sumitomo Corporation. Newmont has a 56.25% interest in the partnership and the Sumitomo affiliate holds the remaining 43.75%. The partnership, in turn, owns 80% of P.T. Newmont Nusa Tenggara (“PTNNT”), the subsidiary that owns Batu Hijau. The remaining 20% interest in PTNNT is a carried interest held by P.T. Pukuafu Indah, an unrelated Indonesian company. Through September 30, 2004, PTNNT recorded cumulative losses, therefore, Newmont has historically reported a 56.25% economic interest in Batu Hijau. As a result of higher metal prices, improved operating and financial results, and increased life of mine expectations regarding production, costs and economics, PTNNT’s cumulative losses had been recovered by the fourth quarter of 2004, thereby allowing for the payment of dividends. Under existing shareholder agreements, the Indonesian shareholder will be entitled to receive 6% of any dividends paid by PTNNT until such time as a loan to the Indonesia shareholder is fully repaid (including accrued interest). Newmont, therefore, decreased its reported interest in Batu Hijau to 52.875%, reflecting 56.25% of the 94% of PTNNT’s dividends payable to the Newmont/Sumitomo partnership.
Prior to January 1, 2004, we accounted for our investment in Batu Hijau as an equity investment due to each of PTNNT shareholders’ significant participating rights in Batu Hijau’s business. Newmont has identified the Batu Hijau operation as a variable interest entity because of certain capital structures and contractual relationships. Newmont has also determined that it is the primary beneficiary of Batu Hijau. Therefore, pursuant to FIN 46R, Newmont began to consolidate Batu Hijau effective January 1, 2004. See Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information.
Batu Hijau is located on the island of Sumbawa, approximately 950 miles (1,529 kilometers) east of Jakarta. Batu Hijau is a large porphyry copper/gold deposit, which Newmont discovered in 1990. Development and construction activities began in 1997 and start-up took place in late 1999. In 2004, copper sales were 378.8 million equity pounds, while gold sales were 396,300 equity ounces.
In Indonesia, rights are granted to foreign investors to explore for and to develop mineral resources within defined areas through Contracts of Work entered into with the Indonesian government. In 1986, Newmont entered into a Contract of Work with the central government covering Batu Hijau, under which Newmont was granted the exclusive right to explore in the contract area, construct any required facilities, extract and process the mineralized materials, and sell and export the minerals produced, subject to certain requirements including Indonesian government approvals and payment of royalties to the government. Under the Contract of Work, PTNNT has the right to continue operating the project for 30 years from operational start-up, or longer if approved by the Indonesian government.
Under the Batu Hijau Contract of Work, beginning in 2005, and continuing through 2010, a portion of the project must be offered for sale to the Indonesian government or to Indonesian nationals, equal to the difference between the following percentages and the percentage of shares already owned by the Indonesian government or Indonesian nationals (if such number is positive): 15%, by the end of the 2005; 23%, by the end of 2006; 30%, by the end of 2007; 37%, by the end of 2008, 44%, by the end of 2009; and 51%, by the end of 2010. The price at which such interest must be offered for sale to the Indonesian parties is the highest of the then-current replacement cost, the price at which shares of the project company would be accepted for listing on the Jakarta Stock Exchange, or the fair market value of such interest as a going concern.
An Indonesian national currently owns a 20% interest in Batu Hijau, which would require Newmont and Sumitomo to offer a 3% interest in Batu Hijau to the Indonesian government or to Indonesian nationals in 2006. Pursuant to this provision, it is possible that the ownership interest of the Newmont/Sumitomo partnership in Batu Hijau could be reduced to 49% by the end of 2010.
Minahasa. Newmont owns 80% of Minahasa. The remaining 20% interest is a carried interest held by P.T. Tanjung Serapung, an unrelated Indonesian company. Prior to November 2001, 100% of Minahasa’s gold production was attributed to Newmont. As of November 2001, Newmont had recouped a sufficient amount of its investment in Minahasa to entitle the Indonesian shareholder to receive 6% of any dividends distributed after that date. As a result, 94% of Minahasa’s gold production has been attributed to Newmont since November 2001.
Minahasa, on the island of Sulawesi, approximately 1,500 miles (2,414 kilometers) northeast of Jakarta, was a Newmont discovery. Production began in 1996 and mining was completed in late 2001. The remaining stockpiles were processed by August 2004. In 2004, Minahasa sold 70,200 equity ounces of gold. See Note 27 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding Minahasa.
Central Asia
Zarafshan. Newmont has a 50% interest in the Zarafshan-Newmont Joint Venture in Uzbekistan. Ownership of the remaining 50% interest is divided between the State Committee for Geology and Mineral Resources and the Navoi Mining and Metallurgical Combine, each a state entity of Uzbekistan. The joint venture produces gold by crushing and leaching ore from existing stockpiles of low-grade oxide material from the nearby
government-owned Muruntau mine, located in the Kyzylkum Desert. The gold produced by Zarafshan-Newmont is sold in international markets for U.S. dollars. Zarafshan-Newmont sold 210,100 equity ounces of gold in 2004.
The State Committee and Navoi furnish ore to Zarafshan-Newmont under an ore supply agreement. Under the agreement, the State Committee and Navoi are obligated to deliver 242.5 million tons of ore to Zarafshan- Newmont from various areas of the stockpiles designated into four different “Zones” under the agreement. As of December 31, 2004, approximately 140.1 million tons of ore have been delivered, leaving a balance of 102.4 million tons to be delivered from Zone 4. Initially, ore from all Zones was to be delivered regardless of the gold price and the price of the ore was dependent on the grade of ore delivered. In May 2003, the parties amended the grade and pricing structure of the ore supply agreement with respect to ore to be delivered from Zone 4. Under the May 2003 amendment the parties agreed to a mine plan designed to achieve an average grade of at least 0.036 ounce per ton for ore from Zone 4. The amount paid for this ore is dependent on the average grade of ore and the average gold price during the period in which the ore is processed. In the event the State Committee and Navoi supply ore from Zone 4 having an average grade less than 0.036 ounce per ton in a given month and the average gold price during such month is less than $320 per ounce, the price of such ore will be discounted. At certain combinations of low ore grade and at gold prices less than $320 per ounce, the computed price may result in a credit to Zarafshan-Newmont, which will be offset against free cash distributions or future ore purchase payments due to the State Committee and Navoi.
Ovacik. The Ovacik mine, located in western Turkey 12 miles from the Aegean Sea and 66 miles (106 kilometers) north of the city of Izmir, commenced production in May 2001 and sold 110,000 equity ounces of gold during 2004. Newmont acquired the Ovacik mine in February 2002 as part of the Normandy acquisition. In August 2004, the Ovacik mine suspended operations as a result of a court decision ordering suspension of operating permits pending completion of certain additional permitting requirements and the submission of an updated environmental impact assessment. On March 1, 2005, the Ovacik mine was sold to a subsidiary of Koza Davetiye, a Turkish conglomerate. For additional information, see Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Consolidated Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Results of Operations, below.
Africa
Newmont has two advanced development projects in Ghana, West Africa. The Ahafo project, located in the Brong Ahafo Region of Ghana, is 100% owned by Newmont following the acquisition of the remaining 50% of the Ntotoroso property from Moydow Mines International, Inc. in December 2003. Camp and infrastructure construction has commenced, as well as earth works preparation for the mill, the tailings facility and the water storage dam. Initial development costs at Ahafo are estimated at approximately $440 million, with gold production expected to commence in the second half of 2006. The Ahafo project is anticipated to generate steady-state annual gold sales of approximately 500,000 ounces, with higher production in the initial years. At December 31, 2004, the Ahafo project had reserves of 10.6 million ounces of gold.
Newmont also has an 85% interest in the Akyem project, located in the Eastern Region of Ghana. At year-end, the Akyem project had 5.4 million equity ounces of gold reserves. The remaining 15% interest is held by Kenbert Mines Limited. Newmont is currently updating and optimizing the feasibility study for Akyem with a view to making a development decision by mid-2005. Kenbert’s interest is a carried interest until completion of the feasibility update and optimization.
In December 2003, Ghana’s Parliament unanimously ratified an Investment Agreement between Newmont and the Government of Ghana. The Agreement establishes a fixed fiscal and legal regime, including fixed royalty and tax rates, for the life of any Newmont project in Ghana. Under the Agreement, Newmont will pay corporate income tax at a rate up to 32.5% and fixed gross royalties on gold production of 3.0% (3.6% for any production from forest reserve areas). The Government of Ghana is also entitled to receive 10% of a project’s net cash flow after Newmont has recouped its investment and may acquire up to 20% of a project’s equity at fair market value on or after the 15th anniversary of such project’s commencement of production. The Investment Agreement also contains commitments with respect to job training for local Ghanaians, community development, purchasing of local goods and services and environmental protection.
Operating Statistics
The following tables detail Newmont’s operating statistics related to gold production and sales.
(1)
Batu Hijau was accounted for using the equity method in 2003 and 2002, and was not included in the Company’s weighted average total cash costs per ounce for such years. 2003 and 2002 production costs per ounce/pound reflect the pro forma change to co-product accounting effective January 1, 2004. Co-product
accounting for copper and gold includes production costs identifiable for each product (royalties, freight, smelting and refining) and allocates the remaining costs in proportion to the sales revenue generated by each product. Newmont’s economic interest decreased to 52.875% from 56.25% on October 1, 2004.
(1)
See footnote (1) to operating statistics related to gold production and sales table above.
The following table details Newmont’s operating statistics related to copper and zinc production and sales.
(1)
See footnote (1) to operating statistics related to gold production and sales table above.
Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Measures
For all periods presented, total cash costs include charges for mining ore and waste associated with current period production, processing ore through milling and leaching facilities, by-product credits, production taxes, royalties and other cash costs. Certain gold mines produce silver as a by-product. Proceeds from the sale of by-products are reflected as credits to total cash costs. With the exception of Yanacocha and Golden Grove, such by-product sales have not been significant to the economics or profitability of the Company’s mining operations. See Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Consolidated Financial Condition and Results of Operations. All of these charges and by-product credits are included in Costs applicable to sales. Charges for reclamation are also included in Costs applicable to sales, but are not included in total cash costs. Reclamation charges are included in total production costs, together with total cash costs and Depreciation, depletion and amortization. A reconciliation of total cash costs to Costs applicable to sales in total and by segment is provided below. Total production costs provide an indication of earnings before interest expense and taxes for Newmont’s share of mining properties, when taking into account the average realized price received for production sold, as this measure combines Costs applicable to sales plus Depreciation, depletion and amortization, net of minority interest.
Total cash costs per ounce is a measure intended to provide investors with information about the cash generating capacities of these mining operations. Newmont’s management uses this measure for the same purpose and for monitoring the performance of its mining operations. This information differs from measures of performance determined in accordance with GAAP and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for measures of performance determined in accordance with GAAP. This measure was developed in conjunction with gold mining companies associated with the Gold Institute, a non-profit industry group no longer in existence, in an effort to provide a level of comparability; however, Newmont’s measures may not be comparable to similarly titled measures of other companies.
Reconciliation of Costs applicable to sales-Gold to total cash costs and total production costs per ounce (unaudited):
(1)
Includes 94.3 ounces sold from purchased concentrates, excluded for per ounce calculations.
(1)
Includes 94.3 ounces sold from purchased concentrates, excluded for per ounce calculations.
Reconciliation of Costs applicable to sales-Base Metals to total cash costs per base metal pound (unaudited):
Royalty Properties
The following is a description of Newmont’s principal royalty interests, all of which were acquired as a result of the Franco-Nevada acquisition. Newmont’s royalty interests are generally in the form of a net smelter return (“NSR”) royalty, which provides for the payment either in cash or physical metal (“in kind”) of a specified percentage of production, less certain specified transportation and refining costs. In some cases, Newmont owns a net profit interest (“NPI”) pursuant to which Newmont is entitled to a specified percentage of the net profits, as defined in each case, from a particular mining operation. The majority of NSR royalty revenue and NPI revenue can be received in kind (generally in the form of gold bullion) at the option of Newmont. Newmont also has a significant oil and gas royalty portfolio in Western Canada. In 2004, Newmont’s Royalty and dividend income was $65.8 million.
Nevada-Goldstrike. Newmont holds various NSR and NPI royalties at the Goldstrike properties (Betze-Post and Meikle mines) located on the Carlin Trend in northern Nevada. The Betze-Post and Meikle mines are owned and operated by a subsidiary of Barrick Gold Corporation. Newmont received $23.2 million in royalty income from the Goldstrike properties in 2004.
The Betze-Post mine is a conventional open pit operation. The Betze-Post property consists of various claim blocks and Newmont’s royalty interest in each claim block is different, ranging from 0% to 4% for the NSRs and 0% to 6% for the NPIs. The Meikle mine is an underground operation comprising the Meikle, Rodeo and Griffin deposits, located one mile north of the Betze-Post mine, with which it shares the Goldstrike processing facilities. Newmont holds a 4% NSR and a 5% NPI over 1,280 acres of the claims that cover most of the Meikle, Rodeo and Griffin deposits. Newmont is not obligated to fund any portion of the cost associated with the Betze-Post or the Meikle mines.
Montana-Stillwater. Newmont holds a 5% NSR royalty on a portion of the Stillwater mine and all of the East Boulder mine, both located near Nye, Montana and owned and operated by Stillwater Mining Company. Newmont received $8.2 million in royalty income from the Stillwater properties in 2004. Stillwater produces palladium, platinum, and associated metals (platinum group metals or PGMs) from a geological formation known as the J-M Reef. Stillwater is the only significant producer of PGMs outside of South Africa and Russia. The J-M Reef is an extensive mineralized zone containing PGMs, which has been traced over a strike length of approximately 28 miles. To date, the majority of production has been from the Stillwater mine, with East Boulder commencing production during 2001. For the year 2004, an average of approximately 81% of the total production from the Stillwater mine and 100% of the total production from the East Boulder mine was subject to Newmont’s royalty. Because Newmont’s royalty does not apply to a portion of the Stillwater properties the percentage of future production from the royalty lands will vary from year to year.
Canada-Oil and Gas Interests. Newmont’s oil and gas royalty portfolio covers 1.8 million gross acres of producing and non-producing lands located in western Canada and the Canadian Arctic. The average royalty on these lands is 6%. Newmont received $23.5 million in royalty income from these properties in 2004.
Investment Interests
Canadian Oil Sands Trust. In 2004, Newmont purchased marketable equity securities of Canadian Oil Sands Trust for approximately $199.6 million. Canadian Oil Sands Trust is traded on the Toronto Stock Exchange. As of December 31, 2004, the market value of Newmont’s interest in the trust was approximately $336.9 million.
Gabriel Resources, Ltd. In 2004, Newmont purchased marketable equity securities of Gabriel Resources Ltd., a Canadian mineral exploration company traded on the Toronto Stock Exchange, for approximately $19.2 million. Gabriel Resources, Ltd. owns 80% of the Rosia Montana project in Romania. As of December 31, 2004, the market value of Newmont’s interest in Gabriel Resources was approximately $19.4 million.
Kinross Gold Corporation. As a result of a combination of Kinross Gold Corporation, Echo Bay Mines Ltd. and TVX Gold Inc. in January 2003, Newmont acquired a 13.8% interest in the restructured Kinross. During the third quarter of 2003, Newmont sold approximately 28 million Kinross shares representing 66% of its investment for total cash proceeds of $224.6 million, and recorded a net loss of $7.4 million. At June 30, 2004, Newmont recognized a $38.5 million impairment charge on its investment in Kinross in (Loss) gain on investments, net for an other-than-temporary decline in value in accordance with SFAS No. 115, “Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities.” Newmont classified the remaining balance of its investment in Kinross as short-term, available-for-sale marketable securities at December 31, 2004. At December 31, 2004, the market value of the Kinross investment was approximately $101.5 million.
Proven and Probable Reserves
Newmont had proven and probable equity gold reserves of 92.4 million ounces as of December 31, 2004.
Gold reserves for 2004 were calculated at a $350, A$550 or NZD$650 per ounce gold price, except at Boddington and Kalgoorlie, where gold reserves were calculated using a gold price of A$425 and A$560, per ounce, respectively. Newmont’s 2004 reserves would decline by approximately 7%, or 6.0 million ounces, if
calculated at a $325 per ounce gold price. An increase in the gold price to $375 per ounce would increase reserves by approximately 6% or 5.3 million ounces.
At year-end 2004, Newmont’s North American equity gold reserves were 35.0 million ounces (including 34.0 million equity ounces in Nevada). Outside of North America, year-end equity gold reserves were 57.4 million ounces, including 15.1 million ounces in Australia/New Zealand, 16.6 million ounces in Peru and 16.0 million ounces in Ghana.
Newmont’s equity copper reserves at year-end 2004 were 8.9 billion pounds. Except at Boddington, copper reserves were calculated at a price of $0.90 or A$1.45 per pound.
Newmont’s equity zinc reserves at year-end 2004 were 730 million pounds. Zinc reserves were calculated at a price of A$0.62 per pound.
Under Newmont’s current mining plans, all reserves are located on fee property or mining claims or will be depleted during the terms of existing mining licenses or concessions, or where applicable, any assured renewal or extension periods for the licenses or concessions.
Proven and probable reserves are based on extensive drilling, sampling, mine modeling and metallurgical testing from which economic feasibility has been determined. The price sensitivity of reserves depends upon several factors including grade, metallurgical recovery, operating cost, waste-to-ore ratio and ore type. Metallurgical recovery rates vary depending on the metallurgical properties of each deposit and the production process used. The reserve tables below list the average metallurgical recovery rate for each deposit, which takes into account the several different processing methods to be used. The cut-off grade, or lowest grade of mineralized material considered economic to process, varies with material type, metallurgical recoveries and operating costs.
The proven and probable reserve figures presented herein are estimates based on information available at the time of calculation. No assurance can be given that the indicated levels of recovery of gold, copper and zinc will be realized. Ounces of gold or pounds of copper or zinc in the proven and probable reserves are calculated without regard to any losses during metallurgical treatment. Reserve estimates may require revision based on actual production experience. Market price fluctuations of gold, copper and zinc, as well as increased production costs or reduced metallurgical recovery rates, could render proven and probable reserves containing relatively lower grades of mineralization uneconomic to exploit and might result in a reduction of reserves.
Reserves are published once each year and will be recalculated as of December 31, 2005, for the entire Company, taking into account metal prices, divestments and depletion as well as any acquisitions and additions to reserves based on results of exploration, mine optimization and development work performed during 2005.
The following tables detail Newmont’s gold proven and probable reserves(1) reflecting only those reserves owned by Newmont on December 31, 2004 or 2003:
(1)
The term “reserve” means that part of a mineral deposit that can be economically and legally extracted or produced at the time of the reserve determination.
The term “economically,” as used in the definition of reserve, means that profitable extraction or production has been established or analytically demonstrated in a full feasibility study to be viable and justifiable under reasonable investment and market assumptions.
The term “legally,” as used in the definition of reserve, does not imply that all permits needed for mining and processing have been obtained or that other legal issues have been completely resolved. However, for a reserve to exist, the Company must have a justifiable expectation, based on applicable laws and regulations, that issuance of permits or resolution of legal issues necessary for mining and processing at a particular deposit will be accomplished in the ordinary course and in a timeframe consistent with the Company’s current mine plans.
The term “proven reserves” means reserves for which (a) quantity is computed from dimensions revealed in outcrops, trenches, workings or drill holes; (b) grade and/or quality are computed from the results of detailed sampling; and (c) the sites for inspection, sampling and measurements are spaced so closely and the geologic character is sufficiently defined that size, shape, depth and mineral content of reserves are well established.
The term “probable reserves” means reserves for which quantity and grade are computed from information similar to that used for proven reserves, but the sites for sampling are farther apart or are otherwise less adequately spaced. The degree of assurance, although lower than that for proven reserves, is high enough to assume continuity between points of observation.
Proven and probable reserves were calculated using different cut-off grades. The term “cut-off grade” means the lowest grade of mineralized material that can be included in the reserves in a given deposit. Cut-off grades vary between deposits depending upon prevailing economic conditions, mineability of the deposit, amenability of the ore to gold extraction, and type of milling or leaching facilities available.
2004 reserves were calculated at a $350, A$550 or NZD$650 per ounce gold price unless otherwise noted. 2003 reserves were calculated at a $325, A$545 or NZD$665 per ounce gold price unless otherwise noted.
(2)
Tonnages are after allowances for losses resulting from mining methods. Tonnages are rounded to the nearest hundred thousand.
(3)
Ounces or pounds are estimates of metal contained in ore tonnages and are before allowances for processing losses. Metallurgical recovery rates represent the estimated amount of metal to be recovered through metallurgical extraction processes. Ounces are rounded to the nearest ten thousand.
(4)
Cut-off grades utilized in 2004 were as follows: oxide leach material not less than 0.006 ounce per ton; oxide mill material not less than 0.060 ounce per ton; refractory leach material not less than 0.026 ounce per ton; refractory mill material not less than 0.021 ounce per ton.
(5)
Includes undeveloped reserves at Castle Reef, North Lantern and Emigrant deposits for combined total undeveloped reserves of 1,450,000 ounces.
(6)
Deposit is currently undeveloped except for minor leach production. Construction of facilities began in November 2004.
(7)
Includes partially developed reserves at Leeville, which contains a total reserve of 2,610,000 ounces.
(8)
Also contains reserves of over 18 million and 24 million ounces of silver at December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively, with a metallurgical recovery rate of 91% and 93%, respectively.
(9)
Reserve estimates provided by Placer Dome, the operator of the Turquoise Ridge Joint Venture.
(10)
Stockpiles are primarily material that has been set aside to allow processing of higher grade material in the mills. Stockpiles increase or decrease depending on current mine plans. Stockpiles are reported separately where tonnage or contained ounces are greater than 5% of the total site reported reserves and contained ounces are greater than 100,000 ounces.
(11)
Material in-process represents that material on leach pads at the end of the year from which gold remains to be recovered. Material in-process is reported separately where tonnage or contained ounces are greater than 5% of the total site reported reserves and contained ounces are greater than 100,000 ounces.
(12)
Cut-off grade utilized in 2004 of not less than 0.155 ounce per ton.
(13)
Percentage reflects Newmont’s weighted equity interest from 84.65% interest in the Holloway Joint Venture and 100% interest in remaining reserves. In 2003, this percentage was 91.5%. Property includes currently undeveloped reserves at the Blacktop deposit of 80,000 ounces. Cut-off grade utilized in 2004 of not less than 0.126 ounce per ton.
(14)
Cut-off grade utilized in 2004 of not less than 0.009 ounce per ton.
(15)
Reported reserves are based on Newmont’s 51.35% equity interest. Yanacocha is consolidated on a 100% basis for accounting purposes, then the minority interests of our partners are recognized. Reserves include currently undeveloped deposits at Corimayo and Chaquicocha Sur, which contain a combined undeveloped reserve of 2,970,000 equity ounces. Cut-off grade utilized in 2004 of not less than 0.006 ounce per ton.
(16)
Deposit is undeveloped. Cut-off grade and recoveries vary depending on the gold and copper content. Cut-off grade used for reserve reporting in 2004 was equivalent to 0.016 ounce per ton.
(17)
Reserves at Kori Chaca containing a total reserve of 300,000 equity ounces are currently being developed. Cut-off grade utilized in 2004 of not less than 0.010 ounce per ton.
(18)
As in 2003, reserves were calculated at a A$425 per ounce gold price, and accounted for on an equity basis. Deposit is currently undeveloped. Cut-off grade utilized in 2004 of not less than 0.011 ounce per ton.
(19)
Gold reported in reserves is contained within zinc and copper ore bodies. Cut-off grade and recoveries vary depending on the copper, gold and zinc content. The cut-off grades used for reserve reporting in 2004 were equivalent to 2.4% copper and 7.9% zinc.
(20)
Reserve based on A$560 per ounce gold price for 2004 and A$545 for 2003. Percentage reflects Newmont’s equity interest. Pro-rata consolidated for accounting purposes. Cut-off grade utilized in 2004 of not less than 0.026 ounce per ton.
(21)
Cut-off grade utilized in 2004 of not less than 0.093 ounce per ton.
(22)
Cut-off grade utilized in 2004 of not less than 0.045 ounce per ton.
(23)
Cut-off grade utilized in 2004 of not less than 0.021 ounce per ton.
(24)
Includes currently undeveloped reserves at the Favona deposit containing 350,000 ounces. Cut-off grade utilized in 2004 of not less than 0.022 ounce per ton.
(25)
Production is in the form of a copper/gold concentrate. Cut-off grade and recoveries vary depending on the gold and copper content. The cut-off grade used for reserve reporting in 2004 was equivalent to 0.28% copper.
(26)
Percentage reflects Newmont’s economic interest in remaining reserves.
(27)
Property sold March 1, 2005. Cut-off grade utilized in 2004 of not less than 0.092 ounce per ton.
(28)
Material made available to Zarafshan-Newmont for processing from designated stockpiles or from other specified sources. Tonnage and gold content of material made available to Zarafshan-Newmont for processing from such designated stockpiles or from other specified sources are guaranteed by state entities of Uzbekistan.
(29)
Deposits are currently undeveloped. Construction of facilities began in November 2004. Cut-off grade utilized in 2004 of not less than 0.014 ounce per ton.
(30)
Deposit is undeveloped. Cut-off grade utilized in 2004 of not less than 0.013 ounce per ton.
(31)
Property sold in 2004.
(32)
Processing of remaining stockpiles was completed in August 2004.
(33)
Property sold in 2004.
The following tables detail Newmont’s base metal proven and probable reserves(1) reflecting only those reserves owned by Newmont on December 31, 2004 or 2003:
(1)
See footnote (1) to the Gold Proven and Probable Reserve tables above. Copper reserves are calculated at a $0.90 or A$1.45 per pound copper price unless otherwise noted. 2003 reserves were calculated at a $0.75 or A$1.35 per pound copper price unless otherwise noted.
(2)
See footnote (2) to the Gold Proven and Probable Reserves Tables above.
(3)
See footnote (3) to the Gold Proven and Probable Reserves Tables above. Pounds are rounded to the nearest ten million. Tonnage amounts are rounded to the nearest one hundred thousand.
(4)
Deposit is currently undeveloped except for minor gold leach production. Construction of facilities began in November 2004.
(5)
Deposit is undeveloped.
(6)
Percentage reflects Newmont’s economic interest in remaining reserves.
Stockpiles are primarily material that has been set aside to allow processing of higher grade material in the mills. Stockpiles increase or decrease depending on current mine plans. Stockpiles are reported separately where tonnage or contained metal are greater than 5% of the total site reported reserves.
(7)
As in 2003, reserves are calculated at a A$1.25 per pound copper price, and accounted for on an equity basis. Deposit is undeveloped.
(8)
Zinc reserves are calculated at a A$0.62 per pound zinc price. 2003 reserves were calculated at a A$0.71 per pound zinc price. Tonnage amounts are rounded to the nearest one hundred thousand and zinc pounds are rounded to the nearest ten million.
The following table details Newmont’s reconciliation of December 2004 and December 2003 Gold Proven and Probable Reserves:
(1)
Reserves mined and processed in 2004.
(2)
Includes 1.0 million ounces from the sale of the Perama property. In addition, 1.98 million ounces at Cerro Quilish were reclassified from proven and probable reserves to mineralized material not in reserves.
(3)
Due to reserve conversions, optimizations, model updates and updated unit costs and recoveries.
ITEM 3.