ITEM 2. PROPERTIES (dollars in millions except per share, per ounce and per pound amounts)
Production and Development Properties
Newmont’s significant production and development properties are described below. Operating statistics for each operation are presented in a table in the next section of Item 2.
North America
Nevada, USA. We have been mining gold in Nevada since 1965. Nevada operations include Carlin, located west of the city of Elko on the geologic feature known as the Carlin Trend, the Phoenix mine, located 10 miles south of Battle Mountain, the Twin Creeks mine, located approximately 15 miles north of Golconda, and the Midas mine near the town of the same name. We also participate in the Turquoise Ridge joint venture with a subsidiary of Barrick Gold Corporation (“Barrick”), which utilizes mill capacity at Twin Creeks.
Gold production from Nevada was approximately 1.748 million ounces for 2012 with ore mined from nine open pit and seven underground mines. At December 31, 2012, we reported 35.1 million ounces of gold reserves in Nevada, with 77% of those ounces in open pit mines and 23% in underground mines. We are advancing several development opportunities in Nevada, including Long Canyon.
The Nevada operations produce gold from a variety of ore types requiring different processing techniques depending on economic and metallurgical characteristics. To ensure the best use of processing capacity, we use a linear programming model to guide the flow of both mining sequence selection and routing of ore streams to various plants. Refractory ores, which require more complex, higher cost processing methods, generated 82% of Nevada’s gold production in 2012, compared with 79% in 2011 and 79% in 2010. With respect to remaining reserves, we estimate that approximately
NEWMONT MINING CORPORATION
85% are refractory ores and 15% are oxide ores. Higher-grade oxide ores are processed by conventional milling and cyanide leaching at Carlin (Mill 5) and Twin Creeks (Juniper). Lower-grade material with suitable cyanide solubility is treated on heap leach pads at Carlin and Twin Creeks. Higher-grade refractory ores are processed through either a roaster at Carlin (Mill 6) or autoclaves at Twin Creeks (Sage). Lower-grade refractory ores are processed at Carlin by flotation or direct flotation at Mill 5. Mill 5 flotation concentrates are then processed at the Carlin roaster or the Twin Creeks autoclaves and additional gold is recovered from the flotation tails by cyanide leaching. The Phoenix mill produces a gravity gold concentrate and a copper/gold flotation concentrate and recovers additional gold from cyanide leaching of the flotation tails. Ore from the Midas mine is processed by conventional milling and Merrill-Crowe zinc precipitation. Activated carbon from the various leaching circuits is treated to produce gold doré at the Carlin or Twin Creeks refineries. Zinc precipitate at Midas is refined on-site.
We own, or control through long-term mining leases and unpatented mining claims, all of the minerals and surface area within the boundaries of the present Nevada mining operations (except for the Turquoise Ridge joint venture described below). The long-term leases extend for at least the anticipated mine life of those deposits. With respect to a significant portion of the Gold Quarry mine at Carlin, we pay a royalty equivalent to 16.2% of the mineral production. We wholly-own or control the remainder of the Gold Quarry mineral rights, in some cases subject to additional royalties. With respect to certain smaller deposits in Nevada, we are obligated to pay royalties on production to third parties that vary from 1% to 8% of production.
The Long Canyon exploration project is located approximately one hundred miles from the Company’s existing infrastructure at Carlin and we believe provides the potential for significant development and operating synergies. During 2012, the project entered into the selection and confirmation stage as we further develop our understanding of Long Canyon and the district. We have submitted a Plan-of-Operations to the BLM in support of our EIS for operations. We continue to make progress on the exploration program; total of 85 kilometers of drilling was completed in 2012 and we anticipate an additional 65 kilometers to be drilled in 2013. Our intention is to bring the project into production in 2017.
We have a 25% interest in a joint venture with Barrick in the Turquoise Ridge mine. We have an agreement to provide up to 2,000 tons per day of milling capacity at Twin Creeks to the joint venture. Barrick is the operator of the joint venture. Gold production of 48,000 ounces in 2012 were attributable to Newmont.
In Nevada, mining taxes are assessed on up to 5% of net proceeds of a mine. Net proceeds are calculated as the excess of gross yield over direct costs. Gross yield is determined as the value received when minerals are sold, exchanged for anything of value or removed from the state. Direct costs generally include the costs to develop, extract, produce, transport and refine minerals.
Mexico. We have a 44% interest in the La Herradura joint venture and related gold properties (Herradura, Soledad-Dipolos and Noche Buena), which are located in the Sonora desert. La Herradura is operated by Fresnillo PLC (which owns the remaining 56% interest) and comprises open pit operations with run-of-mine heap leach processing. Herradura has been in operation since 1998. Soledad-Dipolos is located 9 kilometers northwest of Herradura and commenced operations in January 2010. Noche Buena is located 23 kilometers northwest of Herradura and operations commenced in Q1 2012. La Herradura is building an oxide mill to improve recoveries on higher grade material with expected completion in the second half of 2013. La Herradura produced 212,000 attributable ounces of gold in 2012, and at December 31, 2012 we reported 2.6 million attributable ounces of gold reserves.
South America
The properties of Minera Yanacocha S.R.L. (“MYSRL”) include operations at Yanacocha and the Conga project. We hold a 51.35% interest in MYSRL with the remaining interests held by Compañia de Minas Buenaventura, S.A.A. (“Buenaventura”) (43.65%) and the International Finance Corporation (5%).
NEWMONT MINING CORPORATION
MYSRL has mining rights with respect to a large land position consisting of concessions granted by the Peruvian government to MYSRL and a related entity. These mining concessions provide for both the right to explore and exploit. However, MYSRL must first obtain the respective exploration and exploitation permits, which are generally granted in due course. MYSRL may retain mining concessions indefinitely by paying annual fees and, during exploitation, complying with production obligations or paying assessed fines. Mining concessions are freely assignable or transferable. Beginning October 1, 2011, mining companies are subject to a revised royalty and special mining tax, dependent on whether or not a stabilization agreement is in effect. The revised royalty and special mining taxes are based on a sliding scale between 5% to 7%.
Yanacocha, Peru. Yanacocha is located approximately 375 miles (604 kilometers) north of Lima and 30 miles (48 kilometers) north of the city of Cajamarca. Yanacocha began production in 1993 and currently has active open pit mines at Cerro Yanacocha, La Quinua, Chaquicocha, Maqui Maqui, Carachugo, and Cerro Negro. Yanacocha has four leach pads, three processing facilities, and one mill. Yanacocha’s gold production for 2012 was 1.346 million ounces (691,000 attributable ounces) and at December 31, 2012 we reported 3.0 million attributable ounces of gold reserves.
Conga, Peru. The Conga project is located within close proximity of existing operations at Yanacocha. Due to local political and community protests, construction and development activities at the Conga project were largely suspended in November 2011. The results of the Peruvian Central Government initiated Environmental Impact Assessment (“EIA”) independent review were announced on April 20, 2012 and confirmed our initial EIA met Peruvian and International standards. The review made recommendations to provide additional water capacity and social funds, which we have largely accepted. We announced our decision to move the project forward on a “water first” approach on June 22, 2012. During 2013 the project will be focused on building water reservoirs, completing the last engineering activities, and accepting delivery of the main equipment purchases. Should we be unable to continue with the current development plan at Conga, we may reprioritize and reallocate capital to development alternatives in Nevada, Australia, Ghana and Indonesia. If the project proceeds, average annual estimated attributable gold production of approximately 300,000 to 350,000 ounces and average annual estimated attributable copper production of approximately 80 to 120 million pounds per year are expected during the first five years of production. At December 31, 2012, we reported 6.5 million attributable ounces of gold reserves and 1,690 million attributable pounds of copper reserves.
La Zanja, Peru. We hold a 46.94% interest in La Zanja, a gold mine near the city of Cajamarca. The mine commenced operations in September 2010 and is operated by Buenaventura. The mine consists of two small open pits and one oxide leach pad. La Zanja produced 53,000 attributable gold ounces in 2012 and at December 31, 2012 we reported 0.2 million attributable ounces of gold reserves.
Merian, Suriname. We completed a positive feasibility study in the fourth quarter of 2012 and now own an 80% interest in the Merian project through a joint venture with a subsidiary of Alcoa. We continue to finalize the mineral agreement with the government of Suriname, expected in the first half of 2013. The development of the Merian project will allow Newmont to pursue a new district with upside potential and the opportunity to grow and extend the operating life of the South American region. First production is targeted for 2015 with initial estimated gold production (on a 100% basis) of 350,000 to 450,000 ounces per year. At December 31, 2012, we reported 2.9 million attributable ounces of gold reserves.
Asia Pacific
Australia/New Zealand. In Australia, mineral exploration and mining titles are granted by the individual states or territories. Mineral titles may also be subject to native title legislation or, in the Northern Territory, to Aboriginal freehold title legislation that entitles indigenous persons to
NEWMONT MINING CORPORATION
compensation calculated by reference to the gross value of production. In 1992, the High Court of Australia held that Aboriginal people who have maintained a continuing connection with their land according to their traditions and customs may hold certain rights in respect of the land (such rights commonly referred to as “native title”). Since the High Court’s decision, Australia has passed legislation providing for the protection of native title and established procedures for Aboriginal people to claim these rights. The fact that native title is claimed with respect to an area, however, does not necessarily mean that native title exists, and disputes may be resolved by the courts.
Generally, under native title legislation, all mining titles granted before January 1, 1994 are valid. Titles granted between January 1, 1994 and December 23, 1996, however, may be subject to invalidation if they were not obtained in compliance with applicable legislative procedures, though subsequent legislation has validated some of these titles. After December 23, 1996, mining titles over areas where native title is claimed to exist became subject to legislative processes that generally give native title claimants the “right to negotiate” with the title applicant for compensation and other conditions. Native title holders do not have a veto over the granting of mining titles, but if agreement cannot be reached, the matter can be referred to the National Native Title Tribunal for decision.
Native title claims are not expected to have a material adverse effect on any of our operations in Australia. The High Court of Australia determined in an August 2002 decision, which refined and narrowed the scope of native title, that native title does not subsist in minerals in Western Australia and that the rights granted under a mining title would, to the extent inconsistent with asserted native title rights, operate to extinguish those native title rights. Generally, native title is only an issue for Newmont with respect to obtaining new mineral titles or moving from one form of title to another, for example, from an exploration title to a mining title. In these cases, the requirements for negotiation and the possibility of paying compensation may result in delay and increased costs for mining in the affected areas. Similarly, the process of conducting Aboriginal heritage surveys to identify and locate areas or sites of Aboriginal cultural significance can result in additional costs and delay in gaining access to land for exploration and mining-related activities.
In Australia, various ad valorem royalties and taxes are paid to state and territorial governments, typically based on a percentage of gross revenues or earnings. Indigenous communities have negotiated royalty payments as a condition to granting access to areas where they have native title or other property rights. A carbon dioxide tax commenced in Australia on July 1, 2012, whereby the largest emitters of carbon dioxide are required to pay A$23.00 per metric ton of carbon dioxide released into the atmosphere. The carbon price is indexed for inflation through June 30, 2015, when a cap and trade system will be in place. Carbon costs are primarily driven by electricity and diesel fuel consumption.
Boddington. Boddington (100% owned) is located 81 miles (130 kilometers) southeast of Perth in Western Australia. Boddington has been wholly owned since June 2009 when Newmont acquired the final 33.33% interest from AngloGold Ashanti Australia Limited (“AngloGold”). Boddington poured its first gold in September 2009 and commenced commercial production in November 2009. Boddington produced 724,000 ounces of gold and 67 million pounds of copper in 2012, and at December 31, 2012 we reported 18.6 million ounces of gold reserves and 2,180 million pounds of copper reserves.
Kalgoorlie. Kalgoorlie (50% owned) comprises the Fimiston open pit (commonly referred to as the Super Pit) and Mt. Charlotte underground mine at Kalgoorlie-Boulder, 373 miles (600 kilometers) east of Perth in Western Australia. The mines are managed by Kalgoorlie Consolidated Gold Mines Pty Ltd for the joint venture owners, Newmont and Barrick. During 2012, Kalgoorlie produced 341,000 attributable ounces, and at December 31, 2012 we reported 4.2 million attributable ounces of gold reserves.
Jundee. Jundee (100% owned) is situated approximately 435 miles (700 kilometers) northeast of Perth in Western Australia. We mined ore solely from underground sources in 2012, with mill feed
NEWMONT MINING CORPORATION
supplemented from oxide stockpiles for blending purposes. Jundee produced 333,000 ounces of gold in 2012, and at December 31, 2012 we reported 0.5 million ounces of gold reserves.
Tanami. Tanami (100% owned) includes the Granites treatment plant and associated mining operations, which are located in the Northern Territory approximately 342 miles (550 kilometers) northwest of Alice Springs and the Dead Bullock Soak mining operations, approximately 25 miles (40 kilometers) west of the Granites. Operations are predominantly focused on the Callie underground mine at Dead Bullock Soak and ore is processed through the Granites treatment plant. We have decided to defer further development work on the Tanami Shaft Project, as we focus on (i) improving the execution and delivery at the existing operation, and (ii) gaining a better understanding of the impact of the nearer surface underground Auron discovery on the overall life-of-mine plan. We expect to reassess the restart date of the Tanami Shaft Project in 2015. During 2012, the Tanami operations produced 183,000 ounces, and at December 31, 2012 we reported 2.2 million ounces of gold reserves.
Waihi, New Zealand. Waihi (100% owned) is located within the town of Waihi, approximately 94 miles (150 kilometers) southeast of Auckland and currently consists of the Trio underground deposit and the Martha open pit mine. The Waihi operation produced 67,000 ounces of gold in 2012, and at December 31, 2012 we reported 0.3 million ounces of gold reserves.
Duketon. We have a 19.75% interest in Regis Resources Ltd. (“Regis”), which owns 100% of the Duketon gold project, located approximately 200 miles (320 kilometers) northeast of Kalgoorlie. Duketon commenced production on its first mine in the third quarter of 2010 and completed construction of its second mine in 2012 and produced 31,000 attributable ounces of gold in 2012, and at December 31, 2012 we reported 0.6 million attributable ounces of gold reserves.
Batu Hijau, Indonesia. Batu Hijau is located on the island of Sumbawa, approximately 950 miles (1,529 kilometers) east of Jakarta. Batu Hijau is a large porphyry copper/gold deposit, which Newmont discovered in 1990. Development and construction activities began in 1997 and start-up occurred in late 1999. In 2012, Batu Hijau produced 157 million pounds of copper (76 million attributable pounds) and 68,000 ounces of gold (33,000 attributable ounces). At December 31, 2012, we reported 3,500 million attributable pounds of copper reserves and 3.5 million attributable ounces of gold reserves.
We own 31.50% of Batu Hijau through Nusa Tenggara Partnership B.V. (“NTPBV”), which we own with an affiliate of Sumitomo Corporation of Japan. We have a 56.25% interest in NTPBV and the Sumitomo affiliate holds the remaining 43.75%. NTPBV in turn owns 56% of PT Newmont Nusa Tenggara (“PTNNT”), the Indonesian subsidiary that owns the Batu Hijau copper and gold mine. The remaining 44% interest in PTNNT is owned by PT Multi Daerah Bersaing (“PTMDB”), 24%; P.T. Pukuafu Indah (“PTPI”), 17.8%; and PT Indonesia Masbaga Investama (“PTIMI”), 2.2%.
On May 6, 2011, we announced that a definitive agreement was signed with an agency of the Indonesian Government’s Ministry of Finance for the sale of the final 7% divestiture stake, as required under the terms of PTNNT’s Contract of Work with the Indonesian Government. NTPBV entered into the agreement with Pusat Investasi Pemerintah (“PIP”). The Government of Indonesia designated PIP as the buyer for the final 7% interest by exercising a right of first refusal set out in the Contract of Work. Upon closing of the transaction, NTPBV’s interest in Batu Hijau will be reduced to 49%, as required under the Contract of Work. The price agreed for the 7% stake is approximately $247. Closing of the transaction is pending receipt of approvals from certain Indonesian government ministries. Subsequent to signing the agreement, a disagreement arose between the Ministry of Finance and the Indonesian parliament in regard to whether parliamentary approval was required to allow PIP to make the share purchase. The Ministry of Finance continues to dispute the need for parliamentary approval and further disputes may arise in regard to the divestiture of the 7% stake. NTPBV and PIP agreed to extend the period for satisfying the closing conditions of the agreement until April 2013. Our ownership interest in PTNNT following the closing of the transaction will be 27.56%.
NEWMONT MINING CORPORATION
We have identified Variable Interest Entities (“VIEs”) (see Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements) in connection with our economic interests in PTNNT due to certain funding arrangements and shareholder commitments. We have financing arrangements with PTPI and PTIMI, unrelated noncontrolling shareholders of PTNNT, whereby we agreed to advance certain funds to them in exchange for (i) a pledge of their combined 20% share of PTNNT, (ii) an assignment of dividends payable on the shares, net of withholding tax, (iii) a commitment from them to support the application of our standards to the operation of Batu Hijau, and (iv) as of September 16, 2011 in respect of PTPI only, powers of attorney to vote and sell PTNNT shares in support of the pledge, enforceable in an event of default as further security for the funding. As a result, PTPI and PTIMI were determined to be VIEs and our effective economic interest in PTNNT increased by 17% (20% interest net of withholding tax) to 48.50% during 2010. We currently manage Batu Hijau and our standards are applied at Batu Hijau.
In Indonesia, rights are granted to foreign investors to explore for and to develop mineral resources within defined areas through Contracts of Work entered into with the Indonesian government. In 1986, PTNNT entered into a Contract of Work with the Indonesian government covering Batu Hijau, under which PTNNT was granted the exclusive right to explore in the contract area, construct any required facilities, extract and process the mineralized materials, and sell and export the minerals produced, subject to certain requirements including Indonesian government approvals and payment of royalties to the government. Under the Contract of Work, PTNNT has the right to continue operating the project for 30 years from operational start-up, or longer if approved by the Indonesian government.
Under the Contract of Work our ownership interest in the Batu Hijau mine’s proven and probable reserves may be reduced in the future to as low as 27.56% and ownership interest of NTPBV in PTNNT could be reduced to 49%, thus potentially reducing our ability to control the operation at Batu Hijau or apply our operating standards. As part of the negotiation of the divestiture sale agreements with PTMDB, the parties executed an operating agreement under which each party recognizes the right of Newmont and Sumitomo to apply their operating standards at Batu Hijau and binds the parties to adhere to our standards for safety, environmental stewardship and community responsibility. The operating agreement remains in effect for so long as NTPBV owns more shares of PTNNT than PTMDB. If the operating agreement terminates, then we could lose effective control over the operations of Batu Hijau and will be at risk for operations conducted in a manner that could potentially reduce the value of PTNNT or result in safety, environmental or social standards below those adhered to by us. Such loss of control may cause us to deconsolidate PTNNT for accounting purposes, which would reduce our reported consolidated sales, cost applicable to sales, amortization, total assets and operating cash flow attributable to PTNNT. See Note 30 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Africa
Ahafo, Ghana. Ahafo (100% owned) is located in the Brong-Ahafo Region of Ghana, approximately 180 miles (290 kilometers) northwest of Accra. We currently operate four open pits at Ahafo with reserves contained in 11 pits and an underground mine presently in development. Commercial production in the fourth pit, Amoma, began in October 2010. The process plant consists of a conventional mill and carbon-in-leach circuit. Ahafo produced 561,000 ounces of gold in 2012, and at December 31, 2012 we reported 11.6 million ounces of gold reserves.
Akyem, Ghana. Akyem (100% owned) is located approximately 80 miles (125 kilometers) northwest of Accra. The construction activities continue to progress on schedule and on budget. First production is anticipated in late 2013 with approximately three to six months expected for ramp-up from construction completion to commercial production. Gold production is expected to be approximately 350,000 to 450,000 ounces per year for the first five years of the mine’s operating life of approximately 16 years (based on current gold reserves). At December 31, 2012, we reported 7.4 million ounces of gold reserves.
NEWMONT MINING CORPORATION
In December 2003, Ghana’s Parliament unanimously ratified an Investment Agreement (the “Investment Agreement”) between Newmont and the government of Ghana. The Investment Agreement establishes a fixed fiscal and legal regime, including fixed royalty and tax rates, for the life of any Newmont project in Ghana. Under the Investment Agreement, we will pay corporate income tax at the Ghana statutory tax rate (presently 35% but not to exceed 32.5%) and fixed gross royalties on gold production of 3.0% (3.6% for any production from forest reserve areas). The government of Ghana is also entitled to receive 10% of a project’s net cash flow after we have recouped our investment and may acquire up to 20% of a project’s equity at fair market value on or after the 15th anniversary of such project’s commencement of production. The Investment Agreement also contains commitments with respect to job training for local Ghanaians, community development, purchasing of local goods and services and environmental protection. In July 2009, the Minister of Finance implemented the National Fiscal Stabilization Levy, which is an additional tax of profits. Negotiations are ongoing with the commissioner of the Ghana Internal Revenue Service on the applicability of the levy, given Newmont’s Investment Agreement. While negotiations are pending, we have paid and included $39 in Income and mining tax expense to date under the levy.
In 2012, the government of Ghana enacted a law that increased the corporate income tax from 25% to 35%, eliminated the National Fiscal Stabilization Levy, and changed capital allowances to 20% over 5 years from the previously allowed 80% deduction in year one and then 50% per year on the remaining balance. Per our Investment Agreement, the increase in the corporate income tax rate would be limited to 32.5% and capital allowances remain at the old rates and basis. The government of Ghana also introduced a bill in Parliament that sought to impose a “windfall profit tax” of 10% on windfall profits of mining companies. The bill was later withdrawn from Parliament, and it is not clear if or when it will be returned to Parliament and passed into law. The windfall tax of 10% would not be applicable to our Ghana operations.
In addition, the government of Ghana recently established a Mining Review Committee (“MRC”) to review fiscal regimes and mining agreements with a view to ensuring that Ghana benefits adequately and fairly from gains in the mining sector. Newmont is currently in discussions with the MRC on certain aspects of the Investment Agreement which they would like to be reviewed. The discussions are in the early stages and we cannot determine the potential impact at this stage. See Risk Factor “Our operations are subject to risks of doing business” for a description of risks inherent in contracts with governments.
NEWMONT MINING CORPORATION
Operating Statistics
The following tables detail operating statistics related to gold production, sales and production costs per ounce:
NEWMONT MINING CORPORATION
NEWMONT MINING CORPORATION
The following table details operating statistics related to copper production, sales and production costs per pound.
(1) Ounces from the removal and production of de minimis saleable materials during development. Related sales are recorded in Other income, net of incremental mining and processing costs.
(2) Production costs do not include items that are included in sustaining costs such as General and administrative, exploration, Advanced Projects, Other expense and sustaining capital.
Proven and Probable Reserves
We had attributable proven and probable gold reserves of 99.2 million ounces at December 31, 2012, calculated at a gold price assumption of $1,400, A$1,400 or NZ$1,800 per ounce. Our 2012 reserves would decline by approximately 8% (7.6 million ounces), if calculated at a $1,300 per ounce gold price, all other assumptions remaining constant. An increase in the gold price to $1,500 per ounce would increase reserves by approximately 3% (2.8 million ounces), all other assumptions remaining constant. For 2011, reserves were calculated at a gold price assumption of $1,200, A$1,250 or NZ$1,600 per ounce.
At December 31, 2012, our proven and probable gold reserves in North America were 37.7 million ounces. Outside of North America, year-end attributable proven and probable gold reserves were 61.5 million ounces, including 29.9 million ounces in Asia Pacific, 19.0 million ounces in Africa and 12.6 million ounces in South America.
Our attributable proven and probable copper reserves at December 31, 2012 were 9,510 million pounds. For 2012, reserves were calculated at a copper price assumption of $3.25 or A$3.25 per pound, consistent with the copper price assumption used in 2011.
Our attributable proven and probable silver reserves at December 31, 2012 were 185.8 million ounces. For 2012, reserves were calculated at a silver price assumption of $30.00 or A$30.00 per ounce, increased from $22.00 or A$23.00 per ounce used in 2011. Silver reserves are generally a by-product of gold and/or copper reserves, with significant enough levels to be estimated and included in calculations for mine planning and operations.
NEWMONT MINING CORPORATION
Under our current mining plans, all of our reserves are located on fee property or mining claims or will be depleted during the terms of existing mining licenses or concessions, or where applicable, any assured renewal or extension periods for such licenses or concessions.
Proven and probable reserves are based on extensive drilling, sampling, mine modeling and metallurgical testing from which we determined economic feasibility. Metal price assumptions follow U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission guidance not to exceed a three year trailing average. The price sensitivity of reserves depends upon several factors including grade, metallurgical recovery, operating cost, waste-to-ore ratio and ore type. Metallurgical recovery rates vary depending on the metallurgical properties of each deposit and the production process used. The reserve tables below list the average metallurgical recovery rate for each deposit, which takes into account the relevant processing methods. The cut-off grade, or lowest grade of mineralized material considered economic to process, varies with material type, price, metallurgical recoveries, operating costs and co-or by-product credits.
The proven and probable reserve figures presented herein are estimates based on information available at the time of calculation. No assurance can be given that the indicated levels of recovery of gold and copper will be realized. Ounces of gold or pounds of copper included in the proven and probable reserves are calculated without regard to any losses during metallurgical treatment. Reserve estimates may require revision based on actual production. Market fluctuations in the price of gold and copper, as well as increased production costs or reduced metallurgical recovery rates, could render certain proven and probable reserves containing relatively lower grades of mineralization uneconomic to exploit and might result in a reduction of reserves.
We publish reserves annually, and will recalculate reserves at December 31, 2013, taking into account metal prices, changes, if any, in future production and capital costs, divestments and depletion as well as any acquisitions and additions during 2013.
NEWMONT MINING CORPORATION
The following tables detail gold proven and probable reserves reflecting only those reserves attributable to Newmont’s ownership or economic interest at December 31, 2012 and 2011:
NEWMONT MINING CORPORATION
(1) The term “reserve” means that part of a mineral deposit that can be economically and legally extracted or produced at the time of the reserve determination.
The term “economically,” as used in the definition of reserve, means that profitable extraction or production has been established or analytically demonstrated in a full feasibility study to be viable and justifiable under reasonable investment and market assumptions.
NEWMONT MINING CORPORATION
The term “legally,” as used in the definition of reserve, does not imply that all permits needed for mining and processing have been obtained or that other legal issues have been completely resolved. However, for a reserve to exist, Newmont must have a justifiable expectation, based on applicable laws and regulations, that issuance of permits or resolution of legal issues necessary for mining and processing at a particular deposit will be accomplished in the ordinary course and in a timeframe consistent with Newmont’s current mine plans.
The term “proven reserves” means reserves for which (a) quantity is computed from dimensions revealed in outcrops, trenches, workings or drill holes; (b) grade and/or quality are computed from the results of detailed sampling; and (c) the sites for inspection, sampling and measurements are spaced so closely and the geologic character is sufficiently defined that size, shape, depth and mineral content of reserves are well established.
The term “probable reserves” means reserves for which quantity and grade are computed from information similar to that used for proven reserves, but the sites for sampling are farther apart or are otherwise less adequately spaced. The degree of assurance, although lower than that for proven reserves, is high enough to assume continuity between points of observation.
Proven and probable reserves include gold, copper or silver attributable to Newmont’s ownership or economic interest.
Proven and probable reserves were calculated using different cut-off grades. The term “cut-off grade” means the lowest grade of mineralized material considered economic to process. Cut-off grades vary between deposits depending upon prevailing economic conditions, mineability of the deposit, by-products, amenability of the ore to gold, copper or silver extraction and type of milling or leaching facilities available.
2012 reserves were calculated at a gold price of $1,400, A$1,400 or NZ$1,800 per ounce unless otherwise noted.
2011 reserves were calculated at a gold price of $1,200, A$1,250 or NZ$1,600 per ounce unless otherwise noted.
(2) Tonnages include allowances for losses resulting from mining methods. Tonnages are rounded to the nearest 100,000.
(3) Ounces or pounds are estimates of metal contained in ore tonnages and do not include allowances for processing losses. Metallurgical recovery rates represent the estimated amount of metal to be recovered through metallurgical extraction processes. Ounces are rounded to the nearest 10,000.
(4) Gold cut-off grade varies with level of copper and silver credits.
(5) Reserve estimates provided by Barrick, the operator of the Turquoise Ridge joint venture.
(6) In-process material is the material on leach pads at the end of the year from which gold remains to be recovered. In-process material reserves are reported separately where tonnage or ounces are greater than 5% of the total site-reported reserves and ounces are greater than 100,000.
(7) Stockpiles are comprised primarily of material that has been set aside to allow processing of higher grade material in the mills. Stockpiles increase or decrease depending on current mine plans. Stockpile reserves are reported separately where tonnage or ounces are greater than 5% of the total site-reported reserves and ounces are greater than 100,000.
(8) Cut-off grades utilized in Nevada 2012 gold reserves were as follows: oxide leach material not less than 0.006 ounce per ton; oxide mill material not less than 0.017 ounce per ton; flotation material not less than 0.010 ounce per ton; and refractory mill material not less than 0.035 ounce per ton.
(9) Cut-off grade utilized in 2012 reserves not less than 0.006 ounce per ton.
(10) Project is currently under development. Gold cut-off grade varies with level of copper and silver credits.
NEWMONT MINING CORPORATION
(11) Reserves include currently undeveloped deposits at La Quinua Sur and Marleny, which contain attributable reserves of 0.48 million ounces and 0.05 million ounces, respectively. Cut-off grades utilized in 2012 reserves were as follows: oxide leach material not less than 0.004 ounce per ton; and oxide mill material not less than 0.012 ounce per ton.
(12) Reserve estimates provided by Buenaventura, the operator of the La Zanja project. Cut-off grade utilized in 2012 reserves not less than 0.006 ounce per ton.
(13) Project has completed feasibility and awaits construction decision. Percentage reflects Newmont’s economic interest at December 31, 2012. Gold cut-off grades utilized in 2012 reserves not less than 0.008 ounce per ton.
(14) Percentage reflects Newmont’s economic interest as of December 31, 2012.
(15) Reserve estimates provided by Regis Resources Ltd., in which Newmont holds a 19.75% interest, up from a 16.85% interest in 2011. Gold cut-off grades utilized in 2012 reserves not less than 0.009 ounce per ton.
(16) Cut-off grade utilized in 2012 reserves not less than 0.029 ounce per ton.
(17) Cut-off grade utilized in 2012 reserves not less than 0.026 ounce per ton.
(18) Cut-off grade utilized in 2012 reserves not less than 0.045 ounce per ton.
(19) Cut-off grade utilized in 2012 reserves not less than 0.015 ounce per ton.
(20) Includes undeveloped reserves at seven pits in the Ahafo trend totaling 3.2 million ounces. Cut-off grade utilized in 2012 reserves not less than 0.014 ounce per ton.
(21) Project is currently under development with test stopes extracted in 2012 totaling 11,000 ounces. Cut-off grade utilized in 2012 reserved no less than 0.099 ounce per ton.
(22) Project is currently under development with pre-stripping activities resulting in transferring 25,000 ounces from the pit into stockpile. Cut-off grade utilized in 2012 reserves not less than 0.013 ounce per ton.
The following tables detail copper proven and probable reserves reflecting only those reserves attributable to Newmont’s ownership or economic interest at December 31, 2012 and 2011:
NEWMONT MINING CORPORATION
(1) See footnote (1) to the Gold Proven and Probable Reserves tables above. Copper reserves for 2012 were calculated at a copper price of $3.25 or A$3.25 per pound. 2011 copper reserves were calculated at a copper price of $3.00 or A$3.15 per pound.
(2) See footnote (2) to the Gold Proven and Probable Reserves tables above. Tonnages are rounded to nearest 100,000.
(3) See footnote (3) to the Gold Proven and Probable Reserves tables above. Pounds are rounded to the nearest 10 million.
(4) Copper cut-off grade varies with level of gold and silver credits.
(5) Copper cut-off grade varies with level of leach solubility. Leach pad and associated facilities under construction.
(6) Project is currently under development. Copper cut-off grade varies with level of gold and silver credits.
(7) Percentage reflects Newmont’s economic interest as of December 31, 2012. Copper cut-off grade varies with level of gold and silver credits.
(8) Stockpiles are comprised primarily of material that has been set aside to allow processing of higher grade material in the mills. Stockpiles increase or decrease depending on current mine plans. Stockpiles are reported separately where tonnage or contained metal is greater than 5% of the total site reported reserves.
(9) Copper cut-off grade varies with level of gold credits.
The following tables detail silver proven and probable reserves reflecting only those reserves attributable to Newmont’s ownership or economic interest at December 31, 2012 and 2011:
NEWMONT MINING CORPORATION
(1) See footnote (1) to the Gold Proven and Probable Reserves tables above. Silver reserves for 2012 were calculated at a silver price of $30.00 or A$30.00 per ounce. Silver reserves for 2011 were calculated at a silver price of $22.00 or A$23.00 per ounce.
(2) See footnote (2) to the Gold Proven and Probable Reserves tables above. Tonnages are rounded to nearest 100,000 unless they are less than 50,000.
NEWMONT MINING CORPORATION
(3) See footnote (3) to the Gold Proven and Probable Reserves tables above.
(4) Stockpiles are comprised primarily of material that has been set aside to allow processing of higher grade material in the mills. Stockpiles increase or decrease depending on current mine plans. Stockpile reserves are reported separately where tonnage or ounces are greater than 5% of the total site-reported reserves and ounces are greater than 100,000.
(5) In-process material is the material on leach pads at the end of the year from which silver remains to be recovered. In-process material reserves are reported separately where tonnage or ounces are greater than 5% of the total site-reported reserves and ounces are greater than 100,000.
(6) Percentage reflects Newmont’s economic interest as of December 31, 2012.
The following table reconciles 2012 and 2011 gold, copper and silver proven and probable reserves:
(1) Reserves mined and processed in 2012.
(2) Revisions and additions are due to reserve conversions, optimizations, model updates, metal price changes and updated operating costs and recoveries.
Mineralized Material
We had attributable gold Mineralized Material of 1,114 million tons at an average grade of 0.020 ounces per ton at December 31, 2012, calculated at a gold price assumption of $1,600, A$1,600 or NZ$2,050 per ounce.
At December 31, 2012, our gold Mineralized Material included 429 million tons in North America, 131 million tons in South America, 458 million tons in Asia Pacific and 96 million tons in Africa.
At December 31, 2012, our attributable copper Mineralized Material of 721 million tons at a grade of 0.15% copper was calculated at a copper price assumption of $3.50 or A$3.50 per pound.
At December 31, 2012, our attributable silver Mineralized Material of 468 million tons at a grade of 0.113 ounces per ton was calculated at a silver price assumption of $35.00 or A$35.00 per ounce. Silver Mineralized Material is generally a by-product of gold and/or copper Mineralized Material estimates, with significant enough levels to be estimated and included in future calculations of potential economic extraction.
All of our Mineralized Material is located on fee property or mining claims. Mineralized material is a mineralized underground body which has been intersected by a sufficient number of closely spaced drill holes and or underground sampling to support sufficient tonnage and average grade of metal(s) to warrant further exploration-development work. The deposit does not qualify as a commercially minable orebody until it could be legally and economically extracted or produced at the time of the reserve determination. Metal price assumptions are based on up to a twenty percent premium over reserve prices.
The Mineralized Material figures presented herein do not include that part of our Mineralized Material that have been converted to Proven and Probable Reserves as shown above (they are reported exclusive of reserves), and have been estimated based on information available at the time of calculation. Market fluctuations in the price of gold, copper and silver, as well as increased production
NEWMONT MINING CORPORATION
costs or reduced metallurgical recovery rates, could render certain Mineralized Material containing relatively lower grades of mineralization as potentially uneconomic to exploit and might result in a reduction of Mineralized Material.
We will publish Mineralized Materials annually, and will recalculate them at December 31, 2013, taking into account metal prices, changes, if any, in future production and capital costs, divestments and conversion to reserves, as well as any acquisitions and additions during 2013.
The following table details Mineralized Material reflecting only those that are attributable to Newmont’s ownership or economic interest at December 31, 2012:
(1) Mineralized Material is reported exclusive of reserves. “Mineralized Material” as used in this annual report, although permissible under SEC’s Industry Guide 7, does not indicate “reserves” by
NEWMONT MINING CORPORATION
SEC standards. Newmont cannot be certain that any part of the reported mineralized material will ever be confirmed or converted into SEC Industry Guide 7 compliant “reserves”. Investors are cautioned not to assume that all or any part of the mineralized material will ever be confirmed of converted into reserves or that mineralized material can be economically or legally extracted.
(2) Mineralized Material for 2012 calculated at a gold price of $1,600, A$1,600 or NZ$2,050 per ounce. Mineralized material for 2012 calculated at a copper price of $3.50 or A$3.50 per pound. Mineralized material for 2012 calculated at a silver price of $35.00 or A$35.00 per ounce. Tonnage amounts have been rounded to the nearest 100,000.
(3) Mineralized Material estimates were provided by Barrick, the operator of the Turquoise Ridge Joint Venture.
(4) Stockpiles are comprised primarily of Mineralized Material that has been set aside during mining activities. Stockpiles can increase or decrease depending on changes in metal prices and other mining and processing cost and recovery factors.
(5) Mineralized Material estimates were provided by Buenaventura, the operator of the La Zanja project.
(6) Percentage reflects Newmont’s economic interest as of December 31, 2012.
(7) Mineralized Material estimates were provided by Regis Resources Ltd., in which Newmont holds a 19.75% interest.
ITEM 3.