ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
Gold Processing Methods
Gold is extracted from naturally-oxidized ores by either heap leaching or milling, depending on the amount of gold contained in the ore and the amenability of the ore to treatment. Gold contained in ores that are not naturally oxidized can be directly milled if the gold is amenable to cyanidization, generally known as free milling ores. Ores that are not amenable to cyanidization, known as refractory ores, require more costly and complex processing techniques than oxide or free milling ore. Higher-grade refractory ores are processed through either roasters or autoclaves. Roasters heat finely ground ore with air and oxygen to a high temperature, burn off the carbon and oxidize the sulfide minerals that prevent efficient leaching. Autoclaves use heat, oxygen and pressure to oxidize sulfide minerals in the ore.
Some gold-bearing sulfide ores may be processed through a flotation plant or by bio-milling. In flotation, ore is finely ground, turned into slurry, then placed in a tank known as a flotation cell. Chemicals are added to the slurry causing the gold-containing sulfides to float in air bubbles to the top of the tank, where they can be separated from waste particles that sink to the bottom. The sulfides are removed from the cell and converted into a concentrate that can then be processed in an autoclave or roaster to recover the gold. Bio-milling incorporates patented technology that involves inoculation of suitable crushed ore on a leach pad with naturally occurring bacteria strains, which oxidize the sulfides over a period of time. The ore is then processed through an oxide mill.
Higher-grade oxide ores are processed through mills, where the ore is ground into a fine powder and mixed with water in slurry, which then passes through a cyanide leaching circuit. Lower grade oxide ores are processed using heap leaching. Heap leaching consists of stacking crushed or run-of-mine ore on impermeable pads, where a weak cyanide solution is applied to the top surface of the heaps to dissolve the gold. In both cases, the gold-bearing solution is then collected and pumped to facilities to remove the gold by collection on carbon or by zinc precipitation directly from leach solutions.
Newmont Properties
Production Properties
Set forth below is a description of the significant production properties of Newmont and its subsidiaries. Total cash costs and total production costs for each operation are presented in a table in the next section of this Item 2. Total cash costs and total production costs represent measures of performance that are not calculated in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”). Management uses these non-GAAP financial measures to analyze the cash generating capacities and performance of Newmont’s mining operations. For a reconciliation of these non-GAAP measures to Costs Applicable to Sales as calculated and presented under GAAP, see Item 2, Properties, Operating Statistics.
North America
Nevada. Newmont has been mining gold in Nevada since 1965. Newmont’s Nevada operations include Carlin, located west of Elko on the geologic feature known as the Carlin Trend, and the Winnemucca Region, located 80 miles (129 kilometers) to the west of Carlin. The Carlin Trend is the largest gold district discovered in North America in the last 50 years. The Winnemucca Region includes the Twin Creeks mine located near Winnemucca, the Lone Tree Complex located near Battle Mountain, and the Battle Mountain Complex, near Battle Mountain, where a large gold/copper deposit known as Phoenix is under development. Our Nevada operations also include the Midas underground mine, acquired in February 2002.
Gold sales from Newmont’s Nevada operations totaled approximately 2.5 million equity ounces for 2003. Ore was mined from 12 open pit deposits and five underground mines in 2003. Production began in 2003 at Section 30 at Twin Creeks and at the Gold Quarry South Layback on the Carlin Trend. Underground mine development is expected to continue in 2004 at the Leeville underground mine, with annual gold production of approximately 500,000 ounces expected to commence in late 2005. At the Phoenix project, full-scale annual production is expected to be between 400,000 to 450,000 ounces of gold and 18 to 20 million pounds of copper and is scheduled to begin in mid-2006.
Newmont’s operations in Nevada have a number of different ore types and processing techniques. Newmont has developed a linear programming model to determine the best mix of ore types for each processing facility in order to optimize the value of the ore deposits. Approximately 71% of Newmont’s 2003 year-end proven and probable gold reserves in Nevada are refractory and the remainder are oxide. Refractory ores require more complex, higher cost processing methods. Refractory ore treatment facilities generated 71% of Nevada’s gold production in 2003, compared with 66% in 2002, and 65% in 2001. In 2004, the percentage of production from refractory treatment facilities is expected to be approximately 66% of Nevada’s gold production, as ore is processed from two new, predominantly oxide, ore laybacks at Gold Quarry and Twin Creeks. Over the next several years, however, the percentage of production from refractory treatment facilities is expected to increase.
Higher-grade oxide ores are processed at one oxide mill at Carlin, one at Twin Creeks and one at Lone Tree. Lower-grade oxide ores are processed using heap leaching. Higher-grade refractory ores are processed through either a roaster at Carlin or through autoclaves at Twin Creeks and Lone Tree. Lower-grade sulfide ores are processed through a flotation plant at Lone Tree and through bio-milling at Mill 5. Ore from the Midas mine is processed by conventional milling and Merrill-Crowe zinc precipitation. Gold-bearing activated carbon from Carlin’s milling and leaching facilities is processed on-site at a central carbon processing plant and adjacent refining facilities. Loaded carbon from the Twin Creeks and Lone Tree mines is processed at the Twin Creeks refinery. Zinc precipitate at Midas is refined on site.
Newmont owns, or controls through long-term mining leases and unpatented mining claims, all of the minerals and surface area within the boundaries of the present Carlin, Winnemucca Region and Midas mining operations (except for Turquoise Ridge and Getchell described below). The long-term leases extend for at least the anticipated mine life of those deposits. With respect to a significant portion of the Gold Quarry mine at Carlin, Newmont owns a 10% undivided interest in the mineral rights and leases the remaining 90%, on which Newmont pays a royalty equivalent to 18% of the mineral production. The remainder of the Gold Quarry mineral rights are wholly-owned or controlled by Newmont, in some cases subject to additional royalties. With respect to certain smaller deposits in the Winnemucca Region, Newmont is obligated to pay royalties on production to third parties that vary from 2% to 5% of production.
In 2003, Newmont formed a joint venture with a subsidiary of Placer Dome Inc. under which Newmont acquired a 25% interest in the Turquoise Ridge and Getchell mines, in return for providing up to 2,000 tons per day of milling capacity at Newmont’s Twin Creeks facility and the extinguishment of a 2% net smelter return royalty payable by Placer Dome as it relates to the joint venture property. Placer Dome operates the joint venture.
California. During most of 2003, Newmont had one mine in California, Mesquite. Mining operations at Mesquite ceased in the second quarter of 2001, with the depletion of the main ore body. Production from residual heap leaching resulted in gold sales of 49,200 ounces during Newmont’s ownership in 2003. Newmont sold the Mesquite operations to Western Goldfields, Inc. in November 2003.
Canada. Newmont’s Canadian operations include two underground mines. The Golden Giant mine (100% owned) is located approximately 25 miles (40 kilometers) east of Marathon in Ontario, Canada, and has been in production since 1985. The Holloway mine is located approximately 35 miles (56 kilometers) east of Matheson in Ontario, and about 400 miles (644 kilometers) northeast of Golden Giant, and has been in production since 1996. The Holloway mine is owned by a joint venture in which Newmont has an 84.65% interest. The remaining 15.35% interest is held by Teddy Bear Valley Mines. In 2003, the Golden Giant mine sold 229,700 ounces of gold, and the Holloway mine sold 65,100 equity ounces of gold.
During January 2003, Newmont owned an interest in the TVX Newmont Americas joint venture, which owned gold operations in Canada and South America. Newmont’s interest in TVX Newmont Americas was sold as of January 31, 2003. For additional information, see Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Consolidated Financial Condition and Results of Operations, below.
Mexico. Newmont has a 44% interest in the La Herradura mine, which is located in Mexico’s Sonora desert. La Herradura is operated by Industriales Peñoles, Mexico’s largest silver producer. The mine is an open pit operation with a two-stage crushing circuit and heap leach recovery. La Herradura sold 67,800 equity ounces of gold in 2003.
South America
Peru. The properties of Minera Yanacocha S.R.L. (“Yanacocha”) are located approximately 375 miles (604 kilometers) north of Lima and 30 miles (48 kilometers) north of the city of Cajamarca. Since the discovery of gold in 1986, the area has become the largest gold district in South America. Yanacocha began production in 1993. Newmont holds a 51.35% interest in Yanacocha. The remaining interests are held by Compañia de Minas Buenaventura, S.A.A. (43.65%) and the International Finance Corporation (5%).
Yanacocha has mining rights with respect to a large land position that includes multiple deposits as well as other prospects. Yanacocha’s mining rights were acquired through assignments of concessions granted by the Peruvian government to a related entity. The assignments have a term of 20 years, beginning in the early 1990s, renewable at the option of Yanacocha for another 20 years. In October 2000, Newmont and Buenaventura consolidated their land holdings in northern Peru, folding them into Yanacocha. The consolidation increased Yanacocha’s land position from 100 to 535 square miles.
Five open pit mines, four leach pads, and two processing plants are in operation at Yanacocha. Yanacocha’s gold sales for 2003 totaled 2.86 million ounces (1.47 million equity ounces).
Bolivia. The Kori Kollo open pit mine is on a high plain in northwestern Bolivia near Oruro, on government mining concessions issued to a Bolivian corporation, Empresa Minera Inti Raymi S.A., in which Newmont has an 88% interest. The remaining 12% is owned by Mrs. Beatriz Rocabado. Inti Raymi owns and operates the mine. In 2003, the mine sold 158,500 equity ounces of gold. As higher-grade ores have been exhausted at Kori Kollo, mining ceased in October 2003, with leach production to continue until stockpiles are depleted. Potential development of another pit, Kori Chaca, is currently being evaluated.
Other. During January 2003, Newmont owned an interest in the TVX Newmont Americas joint venture, which owned gold operations in Canada and South America. Newmont’s interest in TVX Newmont Americas was sold as of January 31, 2003. For additional information, see Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Consolidated Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Results of Operations, below.
Australia
Prior to the acquisition of Normandy, Newmont owned a 50% interest in the Pajingo mine discussed below. The remaining 50% interest in Pajingo, and all other Australian properties described in this report, were acquired as part of the acquisition of Normandy in February 2002.
In Australia, mineral exploration and mining titles are granted by the individual states or territories. Mineral titles may also be subject to native title legislation. In 1992, the High Court of Australia held that Aboriginal people who have maintained a continuing connection with their land according to their traditions and customs may hold certain rights in respect of the land, such rights commonly referred to as native title. Since the High Court’s decision, Australia has passed legislation providing for the protection of native title and established procedures for Aboriginal people to claim these rights. The fact that native title is claimed with respect to an area, however, does not necessarily mean that native title exists, and disputes may be resolved by the courts.
Generally, under native title legislation, all mining titles granted before January 1, 1994 are valid. Titles granted between January 1, 1994 and December 23, 1996, however, may be subject to invalidation if they were not obtained in compliance with applicable legislative procedures, though subsequent legislation has validated
some of these titles. After December 23, 1996, mining titles over areas where native title is claimed to exist became subject to legislative processes that generally give native title claimants the “right to negotiate” with the title applicant for compensation and other conditions. Native title holders do not have a veto over the granting of mining titles, but if agreement cannot be reached, the matter will be referred to the National Native Title Tribunal for decision.
Newmont does not expect that native title claims will have a material adverse effect on any of its operations in Australia. The High Court of Australia determined in an August 2002 decision, which refined and narrowed the scope of native title, that native title does not extend to minerals in Western Australia and that the rights granted under a mining title would, to the extent inconsistent with asserted native title rights, operate to extinguish those native title rights. Generally, native title is only an issue for Newmont with respect to obtaining new mineral titles or moving from one form of title to another, for example, from an exploration title to a mining title. In these cases, the requirements for negotiation and the possibility of paying compensation may result in delay and increased costs for mining in the affected areas. Similarly, the process of conducting Aboriginal heritage surveys to identify and locate areas or sites of Aboriginal cultural significance can result in delay in gaining access to land for exploration and mining-related activities.
In Australia, various ad valorum royalties are paid to state and territorial governments and to traditional land owners, typically based on a percentage of gross revenues.
Pajingo. The Pajingo gold mine is an underground mine located approximately 93 miles (150 kilometers) southwest of Townsville, Queensland and 45 miles (72 kilometers) south of the local township of Charters Towers. Prior to the Normandy acquisition, Newmont owned a 50% interest in Pajingo. Following the Normandy acquisition, Newmont owns 100% of Pajingo. In 2003, Pajingo sold 330,300 ounces of gold.
Kalgoorlie. The Kalgoorlie operations comprise the Fimiston open pit (commonly referred to as the Super Pit) and Mt. Charlotte underground mine at Kalgoorlie-Boulder, 373 miles (600 kilometers) east of Perth. The mines are managed by Kalgoorlie Consolidated Gold Mines Pty Ltd for the joint venture owners, Newmont and Barrick Gold Corporation, each of which holds a 50% interest. The Super Pit is Australia’s largest gold mine, in terms of both gold production and total annual mining volume. During 2003, the Kalgoorlie operations sold 404,700 equity ounces.
Yandal. The Yandal operations consist of the Bronzewing, Jundee and Wiluna mines situated approximately 435 miles (700 kilometers) northeast of Perth in Western Australia. The three operations collectively sold 565,600 equity ounces of gold in 2003. Newmont owns a 100% interest in Newmont Yandal Operations Pty Ltd, which owns and operates the Bronzewing and Jundee mines. The Wiluna mine was sold in December 2003. Depletion of Bronzewing reserves is anticipated to occur in March 2004, at which time production will cease. For additional information, see Item 1, Business, Hedging Activities, above, and Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Consolidated Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Results of Operations, Investing Activities, below.
Tanami. The Tanami operations include The Granites treatment plant and associated mining operations, which are located in the Northern Territory approximately 342 miles (550 kilometers) northwest of Alice Springs, adjacent to the Tanami highway, and the Dead Bullock Soak mining operations, approximately 25 miles (40 kilometers) west of The Granites. The Tanami operations also include the Groundrush deposit. The Tanami operations have been wholly-owned since April 2003, when Newmont acquired the minority interests in Newmont NFM by means of a scheme of arrangement and buy-back offer under Australian law.
The operations are predominantly focused on the Callie underground mine at Dead Bullock Soak, with mill feed supplemented by production from the Dead Bullock Soak open pit and the Bunkers and Quorn pits at The Granites. Ore from all of these operations is processed through The Granites plant. Ore from Groundrush is
processed through the Tanami plant rather than The Granites plant. During 2003, the Tanami operations sold 588,600 equity ounces of gold.
Boddington. Boddington is located 81 miles (130 kilometers) southeast of Perth in Western Australia. Boddington is owned by Newmont (44.4%), AngloGold Limited (33.3%) and Newcrest Mining Limited (22.2%). Mining operations ceased in November 2001. A proposed expansion project is being optimized, and restructuring of current management arrangements is under discussion.
Golden Grove. Newmont owns 100% of the Golden Grove operation in Western Australia, approximately 217 miles (350 kilometers) north of Perth. The principal products are zinc and copper concentrates. A high precious metal lead concentrate is also produced. Golden Grove has two underground mines at the Scuddles and Gossan Hill deposits. Golden Grove sold 74.3 million pounds of copper and 104.7 million pounds of zinc during 2003.
New Zealand
Newmont acquired an interest in the Martha gold mine as part of the Normandy acquisition. This mine is located within the town of Waihi, located approximately 68 miles (110 kilometers) southeast of Auckland, New Zealand. Newmont acquired the minority interests in the Martha mine in April 2003, giving it 100% ownership. For additional information, see Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Consolidated Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Results of Operations, Investing Activities, below.
The operation sold 108,900 equity ounces of gold during 2003. The Martha mine does not currently pay royalties. Under new royalty arrangements, a royalty will apply to Favona, a new discovery. The royalty rate is the greater of 1% of gross revenues from silver and gold sales or 5% of accounting profit.
Indonesia
Newmont has two operating properties in Indonesia, Minahasa, a gold operation, and Batu Hijau, a producer of copper/gold concentrates.
Newmont owns 80% of Minahasa. The remaining 20% interest is a carried interest held by P.T. Tanjung Serapung, an unrelated Indonesian company. Prior to November 2001, 100% of Minahasa’s gold production was attributed to Newmont. As of November 2001, Newmont had recouped a sufficient amount of its investment in Minahasa to entitle the Indonesian shareholder to receive 6% of any dividends distributed after that date. As a result, only 94% of Minahasa’s gold production has been attributed to Newmont since November 2001.
Minahasa, on the island of Sulawesi, approximately 1,500 miles (2,414 kilometers) northeast of Jakarta, was a Newmont discovery and consisted of a multi-deposit operation. Production began in 1996 and mining was completed in late 2001. However, processing of stockpiled ore from this mine will continue until mid-2004. In 2003, Minahasa sold 92,200 equity ounces of gold.
Newmont has a 45% ownership interest in Batu Hijau. Newmont’s interest is held through a partnership with an affiliate of Sumitomo Corporation. Newmont owns 56.25% of the partnership and the Sumitomo affiliate holds the remaining 43.75%. The partnership, in turn, owns 80% of P.T. Newmont Nusa Tenggara (“PTNNT”), the subsidiary that owns Batu Hijau. The remaining 20% interest in PTNNT is a carried interest held by P.T. Pukuafu Indah, an unrelated Indonesian company. To date, PTTNT has recorded cumulative losses. Due to the cumulative losses, no dividends have yet been paid, although repayments of shareholder loans made by the Newmont/Sumitomo partnership to PTNNT have been made. Therefore, Newmont has historically reported a 56.25% economic interest in Batu Hijau. As a result of higher metal prices, improved operating and financial results, and increased life of mine expectations regarding production, costs and economics, PTNNT is expected to report positive retained earnings and begin paying dividends during 2004. Under existing shareholder agreements, the Indonesian shareholder is entitled to receive 6% of any dividends paid by PTNNT. Newmont
will, therefore, decrease its reported interest in Batu Hijau to 52.875%, reflecting 56.25% of the 94% of PTNNT’s dividends payable to the Newmont/Sumitomo partnership. We account for our investment in Batu Hijau as an equity investment due to each PTNNT shareholder’s significant participating rights in Batu Hijau’s business. Newmont has identified the Batu Hijau operation as a VIE because of certain capital structures and contractual relationships. Newmont has also determined that it is the primary beneficiary of the Batu Hijau operation. Newmont therefore expects to consolidate Batu Hijau effective January 1, 2004. See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information.
Batu Hijau is located on the island of Sumbawa, approximately 950 miles (1,529 kilometers) east of Jakarta. Batu Hijau is a large porphyry copper/gold deposit, which Newmont discovered in 1990. Development and construction activities began in 1997 and start-up took place in late 1999. In 2003, copper sales were 343.4 million equity pounds, while gold sales, treated as by-product credits, were 328,900 equity ounces.
In Indonesia, rights are granted to foreign investors to explore for and to develop mineral resources within defined areas through Contracts of Work entered into with the Indonesian government. In 1986, Newmont entered into separate Contracts of Work with the central government covering Minahasa and Batu Hijau, under which Newmont was granted the exclusive right to explore in the contract area, construct any required facilities, extract and process the mineralized materials, and sell and export the minerals produced, subject to certain requirements including Indonesian government approvals and payment of royalties to the government. Under the Contracts of Work, Newmont has the right to continue operating the projects for 30 years from operational start-up, or longer if approved by the Indonesian government.
Under Newmont’s Minahasa and Batu Hijau Contracts of Work, beginning in the fifth year after mining operations commenced, and continuing through the tenth year, a portion of each project must be offered for sale to the Indonesian government or to Indonesian nationals, equal to the difference between the following percentages and the percentage of shares already owned by Indonesian nationals (if such number is positive): 15%, by the end of the fifth year; 23%, by the end of the sixth year; 30%, by the end of the seventh year; 37%, by the end of the eighth year; 44%, by the end of the ninth year; and 51%, by the end of the tenth year. The price at which such interest must be offered for sale to the Indonesian parties is the highest of the then-current replacement cost, the price at which shares of the project company would be accepted for listing on the Jakarta Stock Exchange, or the fair market value of such interest in the project company as a going concern.
In accordance with its Contract of Work, and given that an Indonesian national owns a 20% interest in Minahasa, Newmont offered of a 3% interest in Minahasa in 2002 and a 10% interest in 2003, but received no interest in these offers due in large part, we believe, to the imminent closure of the operation. In the case of Batu Hijau, an Indonesian national currently owns a 20% interest, which would require Newmont and Sumitomo to offer a 3% interest in Batu Hijau to Indonesian nationals in 2006. Pursuant to this provision of the Batu Hijau Contract of Work, it is possible that the ownership interest of the Newmont/Sumitomo partnership in Batu Hijau could be reduced to 49% by the end of 2010.
See Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding Newmont’s interest in the Indonesian operating properties.
Uzbekistan
Newmont has a 50% interest in the Zarafshan-Newmont Joint Venture in Uzbekistan. Ownership of the remaining 50% interest is divided between the State Committee for Geology and Mineral Resources and the Navoi Mining and Metallurgical Combine, each a state entity of Uzbekistan. The joint venture produces gold by crushing and leaching ore from existing stockpiles of low-grade oxide material from the nearby government-owned Muruntau mine, located in the Kyzylkum Desert. The gold produced by Zarafshan-Newmont is sold in international markets for U.S. dollars. Zarafshan-Newmont sold 218,100 equity ounces of gold in 2003.
The State Committee and Navoi furnish ore to Zarafshan-Newmont under an ore supply agreement. Under the agreement, the State Committee and Navoi are obligated to deliver 242.5 million tons of ore to Zarafshan-
Newmont from various areas of the stockpiles designated into four different “Zones” under the agreement. As of December 31, 2003, approximately 124.3 million tons of ore have been delivered, leaving a balance of 118.2 million tons to be delivered (8.9 million tons from Zone 3 and 109.3 million tons from Zone 4). Initially, ore from all Zones was to be delivered regardless of the gold price and the price of the ore was dependent on the grade of ore delivered. In May 2003, the parties amended the grade and pricing structure of the ore supply agreement with respect to ore to be delivered from Zone 4. Under the May 2003 amendment the parties have agreed to a mine plan designed to achieve an average grade of at least 0.036 ounce of gold per ton for ore from Zone 4. The amount paid for this ore is dependent on the average grade of ore and the average gold price during the period in which the ore is processed. In the event the State Committee and Navoi supply ore from Zone 4 having an average grade less than 0.036 ounce per ton in a given month and the average gold price during such month is less than $320 per ounce, the price of such ore will be discounted. At certain combinations of low ore grade and at gold prices less than $320 per ounce, the computed price may result in a credit to Zarafshan-Newmont, which will be offset against free cash distributions or future ore purchase payments due to the State Committee and Navoi.
Turkey
The wholly-owned Ovacik mine, located in western Turkey 12 miles from the Aegean Sea and 66 miles (106 kilometers) north of the city of Izmir, commenced production in May 2001 and sold 168,200 ounces of gold during 2003. Newmont acquired the Ovacik mine as part of the Normandy acquisition. At Ovacik, ore is mined from open pit operations and transported for processing in a 600,000 ton per annum grinding circuit and modified carbon-in-leach recovery plant. The Ovacik mine has a long history of legal challenges to the operation of the mine and, in particular, for its use of cyanide in gold production, which could result in closure of the mine or interruption of mining activities. For additional information, see Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Consolidated Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Results of Operations, below.
Ghana
Newmont has two advanced development projects in Ghana. The Ahafo project, located in the Brong Ahafo Region of Ghana, is 100% owned by Newmont following the acquisition of the remaining 50% of the Ntotoroso property from Moydow Mines International, Inc. in December 2003. At year-end, the Ahafo project had reserves of 7.6 million ounces of gold. In December 2003, following the Government of Ghana’s approval of Newmont’s Investment Agreement (described below), Newmont announced that it was proceeding with development of the project. Development costs at Ahafo are estimated at approximately $350 million, with gold production expected to commence in the second half of 2006. The Ahafo project is anticipated to generate steady-state annual gold sales of approximately 500,000 ounces, with higher production in the initial years.
Newmont also has an 85% interest in the Akyem project, located in the Eastern Region of Ghana. At year-end, the Akyem project had 4.3 million equity ounces of gold reserves. The remaining 15% interest in the Akyem project is held by Kenbert Mines Limited. Newmont is currently updating and optimizing the feasibility study for Akyem with a view to making a development decision in late 2004.
In December 2003, Ghana’s Parliament unanimously ratified an Investment Agreement between Newmont and the Government of Ghana. The Agreement establishes a fixed fiscal and legal regime, including fixed royalty and tax rates, for the life of any Newmont project in Ghana. Under the Agreement, Newmont will pay corporate income tax at a fixed rate of 32.5% and fixed gross royalties on gold production of 3.0% (3.6% for any production from forest reserve areas). The Government of Ghana is also entitled to receive 10% of a project’s net cash flow after Newmont has recouped its investment and may acquire up to 20% of a project’s equity at fair market value on or after the 15th anniversary of such project’s commencement of production. The Investment Agreement also contains commitments with respect to job training for local Ghanaians, community development, purchasing of local goods and services and environmental protection.
Operating Statistics
The following tables detail Newmont’s operating statistics related to gold production and sales.
North American Operations
Overseas Operations
Batu Hijau Copper Production
Golden Grove Copper and Zinc Production
Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Measures
For all periods presented, total cash costs include charges for mining ore and waste associated with current period production, processing ore through milling and leaching facilities, by-product credits, production taxes, royalties and other cash costs. Certain gold mines produce silver as a by-product, and Batu Hijau produces gold as a by-product. Proceeds from the sale of by-products are reflected as credits to total cash costs. With the
exception of Nevada, Yanacocha, Golden Grove and Batu Hijau, such by-product sales have not been significant to the economics or profitability of the Company’s mining operations. See Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Consolidated Financial Condition, Results of Operations. All of these charges and by-product credits are included in Costs applicable to sales. Charges for reclamation are also included in Costs applicable to sales, but are not included in total cash costs. Reclamation charges are included in total production costs, together with total cash costs and Depreciation, depletion and amortization. A reconciliation of total cash costs to Costs applicable to sales in total and by segment is provided below. Total production costs provide an indication of earnings before interest expense and taxes for Newmont’s share of mining properties, when taking into account the average realized price received for production sold, as this measure combines Costs applicable to sales plus Depreciation, depletion and amortization, net of minority interest.
Total cash costs per ounce is a measure intended to provide investors with information about the cash generating capacities of these mining operations. Newmont’s management uses this measure for the same purpose and for monitoring the performance of its mining operations. This information differs from measures of performance determined in accordance with GAAP and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for measures of performance determined in accordance with GAAP. This measure was developed in conjunction with gold mining companies associated with the Gold Institute, a non-profit industry group no longer in existence, in an effort to provide a level of comparability; however, Newmont’s measures may not be comparable to similarly titled measures of other companies.
Reconciliation of Costs applicable to sales to total cash costs and total production costs per ounce (unaudited):
Reconciliation of PTNNT Costs applicable to sales to total cash costs and total production costs per pound or ounce, as applicable (unaudited):
Reconciliation of Golden Grove Costs applicable to sales (“CAS”) to total copper and zinc cash costs per pound (unaudited):
Royalty Properties
The following is a description of Newmont’s principal royalty interests, all of which were acquired as a result of the Franco-Nevada acquisition. Newmont’s royalty interests are generally in the form of a net smelter return (“NSR”) royalty, which provides for the payment either in cash or physical metal (“in kind”) of a specified percentage of production, less certain specified transportation and refining costs. In some cases, Newmont owns a net profit interest (“NPI”) pursuant to which Newmont is entitled to a specified percentage of the net profits, as defined in each case, from a particular mining operation. The majority of NSR royalty revenue and NPI revenue can be received in kind (generally in the form of gold bullion) at the option of Newmont. In 2003, Newmont’s royalty revenues were $56.3 million.
Nevada-Goldstrike. Newmont holds various NSR and NPI royalties at the Goldstrike properties (Betze-Post and Meikle mines) located on the Carlin Trend in northern Nevada. The Betze-Post and Meikle mines are owned and operated by a subsidiary of Barrick Gold Corporation. Newmont received $25.4 million in royalty revenues from the Goldstrike properties in 2003.
The Betze-Post mine is a conventional open pit operation. The Betze-Post property consists of various claim blocks and Newmont’s royalty interest in each claim block is different, ranging from 0% to 4% for the NSRs and 0% to 6% for the NPIs.
The Meikle mine is an underground operation comprising the Meikle, Rodeo and Griffin deposits, located one mile north of the Betze-Post mine, with which it shares the Goldstrike processing facilities. Newmont holds a 4% NSR and a 5% NPI over 1,280 acres of the claims that cover most of the Meikle, Rodeo and Griffin deposits. Newmont is not obligated to fund any portion of the cost associated with the Betze-Post or the Meikle mines.
Barrick’s mining sequence from various claim areas will cause fluctuations in Newmont’s royalty receipts. The NSR royalties are based upon gross production from the mine reduced only by ancillary smelter charges and transportation costs of about $2 per ounce. Revenue received from the NSRs covering the Betze-Post and Meikle mines is dependent on the number of ounces of gold produced, the spot price of gold and the cost of shipping and smelting. The Betze-Post NPI began paying in October 1993, the month that the cumulative net profit from the Betze-Post claims exceeded capital invested in those claims. The Meikle mine NPI began paying in the fourth quarter of 1996. Net profits are calculated as proceeds less costs. Proceeds equal the number of ounces of gold produced from the Betze-Post claims and the Meikle mine, multiplied by the spot price of gold on the date gold is credited to Barrick’s account at the refinery. Costs include operating and capital costs as incurred.
Montana-Stillwater. Newmont holds a 5% NSR royalty on a portion of the Stillwater mine and all of the East Boulder mine, both located near Nye, Montana. The Stillwater and East Boulder mines are owned and operated by Stillwater Mining Company. Newmont received $5.8 million in royalty revenues from the Stillwater properties in 2003. Stillwater produces palladium, platinum, and associated metals (platinum group metals or PGMs) from a geological formation known as the J-M Reef. Stillwater is the only significant producer of PGMs outside of South Africa and Russia. The J-M Reef is an extensive mineralized zone containing PGMs, which has been traced over a strike length of approximately 28 miles. Newmont’s royalty covers more than 80% of the combined reserves and mineralized material of the aggregate deposit, but does not cover a portion of the deposit at the Stillwater mine. The majority of production to date has been from the Stillwater mine. For that reason, the percentage of ore mined from the royalty lands has been lower than the 80% reserve percentage. For the year 2003, an average of 63.9% of the total production of the Stillwater mine was subject to Newmont’s royalty. The percentage of future production from the royalty lands will vary from year to year. The royalty encompasses all of the reserves at the East Boulder mine, which commenced production during 2001 and is located approximately thirteen miles to the west of the Stillwater mine.
Canada-Oil and Gas Interests. Newmont’s oil and gas royalty portfolio covers 1.8 million gross acres of producing and non-producing lands located in western Canada and the Canadian Arctic. The average royalty on these lands is 6%. Newmont received $18.8 million in royalty revenues from these properties in 2003.
Investment Interests
Echo Bay Mines Ltd. On January 31, 2003, Kinross Gold Corporation, Echo Bay Mines Ltd. and TVX Gold Inc. were combined, and TVX Gold acquired Newmont’s 49.9% interest in the TVX Newmont Americas joint venture. Under the terms of the combination and acquisition, Newmont received a 13.8% interest in the restructured Kinross in exchange for its 45.67% interest in Echo Bay, and $180 million for its interest in TVX Newmont Americas.
Kinross Gold Corporation. During the third quarter of 2003, Newmont sold approximately 28 million Kinross shares representing 66% of its investment in Kinross for total cash proceeds of $224.6 million, and recorded a net loss of $7.4 million.
Australian Magnesium Corporation. At December 31, 2002, Newmont’s interest in Australian Magnesium Corporation (“AMC”) was composed of a 22.8% equity and voting interest and a loan receivable in the amount
of A$38 million (approximately $20.1 million) including interest. In addition, Newmont subsidiaries had obligations to contribute to AMC A$100 million in equity by January 31, 2003 and a further A$90 million in equity, contingent upon the Stanwell Magnesium Project not achieving certain specified production and operating criteria by December 2006. On January 3, 2003, Newmont purchased an additional 167 million AMC shares at A$0.60 per share for a total of A$100 million (approximately $56.2 million) increasing its ownership to 40.9%, thereby satisfying its January 2003 equity contribution obligation. However, due to additional equity contributions by other shareholders on January 31, 2003, Newmont’s interest was diluted to 27.8%. As a result of this equity dilution of its interest in AMC, Newmont recorded an increase of $7.0 million to Additional paid-in-capital during 2003.
AMC’s primary asset was the Stanwell Magnesium Project (the “Project”). The original funding arrangements for the Project amounted to approximately A$1.5 billion (approximately $1.0 billion), including contingencies and cost overrun reserves. On April 17, 2003, AMC announced that it was unlikely that it would reach agreement with its independent engineering firm for a fixed price contract for the development of the Project. Following this announcement, AMC’s share price declined substantially to A$0.24 per share on May 8, 2003. As a result, Newmont wrote down the carrying value of its investment at March 31, 2003 to the quoted market price of the AMC shares at that date of A$0.43 per share, and recorded a loss in Equity loss and impairment of Australian Magnesium Corporation for an other-than-temporary decline in market value of $11.0 million.
On June 5, 2003, AMC requested suspension of its securities on the ASX. Subsequently, on June 13, 2003, AMC announced a restructuring agreement with the project’s major creditors, including Newmont (the “Agreement”). The Agreement was designed to give AMC time to assess the project’s development options and to search for either a corporate or project partner. Work on the Project has ceased and the site is in care and maintenance status. It is not known if or when the Project or any other magnesium project will be developed by AMC. In addition, as part of the Agreement, AMC (i) settled outstanding obligations to its outside creditors from existing cash reserves; (ii) cancelled the senior debt facilities associated with the Project and the associated foreign exchange and interest rate hedging contracts; and (iii) agreed to release Newmont from the above-mentioned A$90 million (approximately $60.1 million) contingent funding commitment. Newmont agreed to forgive its then A$38 million (approximately $24.8 million) loan receivable, provide support in the form of an A$10 million (approximately $6.6 million) contingent, subordinated credit facility and to maintain the existing guarantee in relation to the QMC Finance Pty Ltd (“QMC”) finance facilities, as described below. In September 2003, Newmont made available to AMC A$5 million ($3.3 million) under the credit facility. Newmont had guaranteed a $30.0 million obligation payable by AMC to Ford Motor Company (“Ford”) in the event the Project did not meet certain specified production and operating criteria by November 2005. AMC agreed to indemnify Newmont for this obligation, but this indemnity was unsecured. As of June 30, 2003, Newmont and Ford agreed to settle the liability in relation to the guarantee for $10.0 million in exchange for a release of the guarantee. Newmont has agreed not to seek recovery of this amount from AMC.
As a result of the foregoing Agreement, Newmont recorded an additional write-down in the second quarter of 2002 of $107.8 million in Equity loss and impairment of Australian Magnesium Corporation reducing the carrying value of its investment in AMC to zero. The write-down was attributable to the following: (i) $72.7 million representing the book value of its investment at June 30, 2003; (ii) $24.8 million for the forgiven loan receivable from AMC; (iii) $10.0 million charge to settle Newmont’s guarantee of the Ford contract (see discussion above); (iv) $6.6 million relating to the contingent credit facility; and (v) $1.1 million for various other items, offset by a $7.4 million income tax benefit.
During the third quarter of 2003, AMC issued additional shares to a shareholder other than Newmont. As a result, Newmont’s interest in AMC was diluted to 26.9%. Subsequently, in October 2003, AMC issued additional shares to a shareholder other than Newmont. As a result, Newmont’s interest in AMC was diluted to 26.7%. During the fourth quarter of 2003, Newmont sold its entire interest in AMC, for a nominal amount to Deutsche Bank AG and to Magtrust Pty Ltd, a company owned and controlled by the directors of AMC.
Magtrust purchased approximately 19.9% of the AMC ordinary shares held by Newmont, with Deutsche Bank purchasing the remaining approximately 6.8% of the AMC ordinary shares held by Newmont. If Deutsche Bank sells its interest in AMC to a third party in the future, it must pay Newmont 90% of the sales proceeds.
Newmont is also the guarantor of a A$71.0 million (approximately $53.2 million) amortizing loan facility of QMC, of which A$65.2 million (approximately $48.9 million) was outstanding as of December 31, 2003. The QMC loan facility, which is collateralized by the assets of Queensland Magnesium Project (“QMAG” see below), expires in November 2006. QMC is also a party to hedging contracts that have been guaranteed by Newmont. The contracts include a series of foreign exchange forward contracts and bought put options, the last of which expire in June 2006. As of December 31, 2003, the fair value of these contracts was positive A$4.7 million (approximately $3.5 million).
The guarantees under the QMC loan facility and hedging contracts could be called in the event of a default by QMC. Newmont’s liability under QMC loan facility guarantee is limited to the total amount of outstanding borrowings under the facility at the time the guarantee is called. Newmont’s maximum potential liability under its guarantee of the QMC hedging contracts, however, would depend on the market value of the hedging contracts at the time the guarantee is called upon. The principal lender and counterparty under the QMC loan and hedging facilities, respectively, also have security interests over the assets of QMAG. In the event the guarantees are called, Newmont would have a right of subrogation to the lender under Australian law.
During the fourth quarter of 2003, Newmont recorded a $30.0 million charge in Loss on guarantee of QMC debt and established a corresponding reserve in Other current liabilities. Newmont reduced the amount accrued for this contingent obligation by the estimated fair value of the QMAG assets that would be subrogated to Newmont in the event the guarantee is called.
Proven and Probable Reserves
Newmont has a significant reserve base, having steadily increased its reserves over the past decade through a combination of exploration success, acquisitions and mine optimization and development work. Newmont had worldwide equity gold reserves of 91.3 million ounces as of December 31, 2003.
Gold reserves for 2003 were calculated at a $325, A$545 or NZD$665 per ounce gold price, except at Boddington, where gold reserves were calculated using a gold price of A$425 per ounce. Newmont’s 2003 reserves would decline by approximately 5%, or 4.4 million ounces, if calculated at a $300 per ounce gold price, while an increase in the gold price to $350 per ounce would increase reserves by approximately 4% or 3.8 million ounces.
At year-end 2003, Newmont’s North American equity gold reserves were 35.2 million ounces (including 33.7 million equity ounces in Nevada). Outside of North America, year-end equity gold reserves were 56.1 million ounces, including 16.9 million ounces in Australia/New Zealand, 16.3 million ounces in Peru and 11.9 million ounces in Ghana.
Newmont’s equity copper reserves at year-end 2003 were 7.5 billion pounds. Except at Boddington, copper reserves were calculated at a price of $0.75 or A$1.35 per pound.
Newmont’s equity zinc reserves at year-end 2003 were 480 million pounds. Zinc reserves were calculated at a price of A$0.71 per pound.
Under Newmont’s current mining plans, all reserves are located on fee property or mining claims or will be depleted during the terms of existing mining licenses or concessions, or where applicable, any assured renewal or extension periods for the licenses or concessions.
Proven and probable reserves are based on extensive drilling, sampling, mine modeling and metallurgical testing from which economic feasibility has been determined. The price sensitivity of reserves depends upon several factors including grade, metallurgical recovery, operating cost, waste-to-ore ratio and ore type. Metallurgical recovery rates vary depending on the metallurgical properties of each deposit and the production process used. The reserve tables below list the average metallurgical recovery rate for each deposit, which takes into account the several different processing methods to be used. The cut-off grade, or lowest grade of mineralized material considered economic to process, varies with material type, metallurgical recoveries and operating costs.
The proven and probable reserve figures presented herein are estimates based on information available at the time of calculation. No assurance can be given that the indicated levels of recovery of gold and copper will be realized. Ounces of gold or pounds of copper or zinc in the proven and probable reserves are calculated without regard to any losses during metallurgical treatment. Reserve estimates may require revision based on actual production experience. Market price fluctuations of gold, copper and zinc, as well as increased production costs or reduced metallurgical recovery rates, could render proven and probable reserves containing relatively lower grades of mineralization uneconomic to exploit and might result in a reduction of reserves.
Reserves are published once each year and will be recalculated as of December 31, 2004, for the entire company, taking into account divestments and depletion as well as any acquisitions and additions to reserves based on results of exploration, mine optimization and development work performed during 2004.
The following tables detail Newmont’s gold proven and probable reserves(1) reflecting only those reserves owned by Newmont on December 31, 2003 and 2002:
(1)
The term “reserve” means that part of a mineral deposit that can be economically and legally extracted or produced at the time of the reserve determination.
The term “economically,” as used in the definition of reserve, means that profitable extraction or production has been established or analytically demonstrated in a full feasibility study to be viable and justifiable under reasonable investment and market assumptions.
The term “legally,” as used in the definition of reserve, does not imply that all permits needed for mining and processing have been obtained or that other legal issues have been completely resolved. However, for a reserve to exist, the Company must have a justifiable expectation, based on applicable laws and regulations, that issuance of permits or resolution of legal issues necessary for mining and processing at a particular deposit will be accomplished in the ordinary course and in a timeframe consistent with the Company’s current mine plans.
The term “proven reserves” means reserves for which (a) quantity is computed from dimensions revealed in outcrops, trenches, workings or drill holes; (b) grade and/or quality are computed from the results of detailed sampling; and (c) the sites for inspection, sampling and measurements are spaced so closely and the geologic character is sufficiently defined that size, shape, depth and mineral content of reserves are well established.
The term “probable reserves” means reserves for which quantity and grade are computed from information similar to that used for proven reserves, but the sites for sampling are farther apart or are otherwise less adequately spaced. The degree of assurance, although lower than that for proven reserves, is high enough to assume continuity between points of observation.
Proven and probable reserves were calculated using different cut-off grades depending on each deposit’s properties. The term “cut-off grade” means the lowest grade of mineralized material that can be included in the reserves in a given deposit. Cut-off grades vary between deposits depending upon prevailing economic conditions, mineability of the deposit, amenability of the ore to gold extraction, and type of milling or leaching facilities available.
2003 reserves were calculated at a U.S.$325, A$545 or NZD$665 per ounce gold price unless otherwise noted. 2002 reserves were calculated at a U.S.$300, A$545 or NZD$665 per ounce gold price unless otherwise noted.
(2)
Tonnages are after allowances for losses resulting from mining methods. Tonnages are rounded to the nearest hundred thousand.
(3)
Ounces or pounds are estimates of metal contained in ore tonnages and are before allowances for processing losses. Metallurgical recovery rates represent the estimated amount of metal to be recovered through metallurgical extraction processes. Ounces are rounded to the nearest ten thousand.
(4)
Includes undeveloped reserves at Castle Reef, Crow, North Lantern and Emigrant deposits for combined total undeveloped reserves of 1,560,000 ounces.
(5)
Cut-off grade utilized in 2003 of not less than 0.018 ounce per ton. 2002 reserves were calculated at a U.S.$250 per ounce gold price. Deposit is undeveloped.
(6)
Includes reserves at Leeville, containing a total reserve of 2,570,000 ounces. Leeville is in development.
(7)
Also contains reserves of over 24 million and 26 million ounces of silver at December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively, with a metallurgical recovery rate of 93% at the end of each period.
(8)
Reserves estimates were provided by Placer Dome, which operates the Turquoise Ridge Joint Venture.
(9)
These reserves are approximately 70.9% (66.4% in 2002) refractory in nature. Refractory ores are not amenable to the direct cyanidation recovery processes currently used for oxide material. Such ore must be oxidized before it is subjected to recovery processes or concentrated for shipment to smelters. Cut-off grades utilized in 2003 reserves were as follows: oxide leach material not less than 0.006 ounce per ton; oxide mill material not less than 0.059 ounce per ton; refractory leach material not less than 0.026 ounce per ton; refractory mill material not less than 0.018 ounce per ton.
(10)
In 2002, included the Mesquite mine where mining was completed in 2001. Mesquite was sold in 2003.
(11)
Cut-off grade utilized in 2003 of not less than 0.150 ounce per ton.
(12)
Cut-off grade utilized in 2003 of not less than 0.132 ounce per ton. Percentage reflects Newmont’s weighted equity interest of 84.65% in the Holloway Joint Venture and 100% in remaining reserves. Property includes undeveloped reserves at the Blacktop deposit of 90,000 equity ounces.
(13)
Cut-off grade utilized in 2003 of not less than 0.010 ounce per ton.
(14)
Reported reserves are based on Newmont’s 51.35% equity interest. Yanacocha is consolidated on a 100% basis for accounting purposes, then the minority interest of our partners is recognized. 2003 reserves calculated using variable cut-off grades of not less than 0.006 ounce per ton. The cut-off grade is a function of both gold and silver content. 2003 reserves include undeveloped deposits at Corimayo, Cerro Quilish, Cerro Negro, Quecher, Chaquicocha Sur, and Antonio, for combined total undeveloped reserves of 5,320,000 equity ounces.
(15)
Cut-off grade utilized in 2003 of not less than 0.010 ounce per ton. Mining was completed in 2003. Reserves include ounces on leach pads and in stockpiles, and undeveloped reserves at Kori Chaca containing 300,000 equity ounces.
(16)
As in 2002, reserves calculated at a A$425 per ounce gold price and treated on an equity basis and not consolidated for accounting purposes. Cut-off grade utilized in 2003 of not less than 0.011 ounce per ton. Deposit is undeveloped.
(17)
Gold reported in reserves is contained within zinc and copper ore bodies. Cut-off grade and recoveries vary depending on the copper, gold and zinc content. The cut-off grades used for reserve reporting in 2003 were equivalent to 2.2% copper and 4.5% zinc.
(18)
Cut-off grade utilized in 2003 of not less than 0.026 ounce per ton. Newmont applies pro-rata consolidation for accounting purposes.
(19)
Cut-off grade utilized in 2003 of not less than 0.117 ounce per ton.
(20)
Became wholly-owned after purchase of minority interests in 2003. At December 31, 2002, Newmont’s equity interest was 85.86%. Cut-off grade utilized in 2003 of not less than 0.036 ounce per ton.
(21)
Previously combined in Yandal, which included Jundee, Bronzewing and Wiluna mines. Wiluna was sold in 2003. Cut-off grade utilized in 2003 of not less than 0.021 ounce per ton at Jundee and 0.020 ounce per ton at Bronzewing.
(22)
Became wholly-owned after purchase of minority interests in 2003. At December 2002, this percentage was 92.28%. Includes undeveloped reserves at the Favona deposit containing 350,000 ounces. Cut-off grade utilized in 2003 of not less than 0.022 ounce per ton.
(23)
Production is in the form of a copper-gold concentrate. Cut-off grade and recoveries vary depending on the gold and copper content. The cut-off grade used for reserve reporting in 2003 was equivalent to 0.33% copper. Percentage reflects Newmont’s adjusted economic interest for purposes of reserve reporting. At December 31, 2002 Newmont’s economic interest was 56.25%.
(24)
Mining was completed in 2001 and remaining reserves are in stockpiles.
(25)
Cut-off grade utilized in 2003 of not less than 0.080 ounce per ton.
(26)
Cut-off grade utilized in 2003 of not less than 0.042 ounce per ton. Sale pending, contingent on buyer financing. Deposit is undeveloped.
(27)
Material made available to Zarafshan-Newmont for processing from designated stockpiles or other designated sources. Tonnage and gold content of material available to Zarafshan-Newmont for processing from such designated stockpiles or other specified sources are guaranteed by state entities of Uzbekistan.
(28)
Cut-off grade utilized in 2003 of not less than 0.015 ounce per ton. Deposit is undeveloped.
(29)
Become wholly-owned after Newmont’s acquisition of remaining 50% of Ntotoroso in 2003. At December 31, 2002, Newmont’s weighted equity interest was 85.6%. Deposit is undeveloped. Cut-off grade utilized in 2003 of not less than 0.016 ounce per ton.
(30)
Interests in Echo Bay and TVX Newmont Americas were exchanged and sold, respectively, as of January 31, 2003. 2002 reserve estimates were provided by Kinross Gold Corporation.
The following tables detail Newmont’s base metal proven and probable reserves(1) reflecting only those reserves owned by Newmont on December 31, 2003 and 2002:
(1)
See footnote (1) to the Gold Proven and Probable Reserves Tables above. 2003 copper reserves were calculated at a U.S.$0.75 or A$1.35 per pound copper price unless otherwise noted. 2002 reserves were calculated at a U.S.$0.75 or A$1.36 per pound copper price unless otherwise noted. 2003 zinc reserves were calculated at a A$1.71 per pound zinc price and in 2002 a price of $A0.85 per pound zinc was used.
(2)
See footnote (2) to the Gold Proven and Probable Reserves Tables above.
(3)
See footnote (3) to the Gold Proven and Probable Reserves Tables above. Pounds are rounded to the nearest ten thousand.
(4)
Cut-off grade and recoveries vary depending on the gold and copper content. The cut-off grade used for reserve reporting in 2003 was equivalent to 0.018 ounce of gold per ton. 2002 reserves were calculated at $0.95 per pound copper price. Deposit is undeveloped.
(5)
Percentage reflects Newmont’s adjusted economic interest for purposes of reserve reporting. At December 31, 2002 Newmont’s economic interest was 56.25%. Cut-off grade and recoveries vary depending on the gold and copper content. The cut-off grade used for reserve reporting in 2003 was equivalent to 0.33% copper.
(6)
As in 2002, reserves were calculated at a A$425 per ounce gold price and A$1.25 per pound copper price and accounted for on an equity basis. Cut-off grade varies depending on the gold and copper content. The cut-off grade used for reserve reporting in 2003 was equivalent to 0.011 ounce of gold per ton. Deposit is undeveloped.
(7)
Cut-off grade and recoveries vary depending on the copper, zinc and gold content. The cut-off grades used for reserve reporting in 2003 were not less than 2.2% copper and 4.5% zinc.
The following table details Newmont’s reconciliation of December 2002 and December 2003 Gold Proven and Probable Reserves:
(1)
Depletion represents reserves processed in 2003.
(2)
Equity divestments include 3,650,000 ounces from the sale of Newmont’s interest in the TVX Newmont Americas joint venture and the exchange of Newmont’s interest in Echo Bay Mines Ltd. for a non-equity accounted interest in Kinross Gold Corporation, 80,000 ounces combined from the sale of the Mesquite and Wiluna mines, and 420,000 ounces from the adjustment to Newmont’s economic interest in Batu Hijau.
(3)
Equity acquisitions include 1,200,000 ounces from the Turquoise Ridge joint venture, 550,000 ounces from the purchase of the remaining 50% of Ntotoroso and 510,000 ounces from the purchases of minority interests at Tanami and Martha.
(4)
Revisions and additions due to reserve conversions, optimizations, model updates and updated unit costs and recoveries.
ITEM 3.