ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
Gold Processing Methods
Gold is extracted from naturally-oxidized ores by either heap leaching or milling, depending on the amount of gold contained in the ore and the amenability of the ore to treatment. Gold contained in ores that are not naturally oxidized can be directly milled if the gold is amenable to cyanidization, generally known as free milling ores. Ores that are not amenable to cyanidization, known as refractory ores, require more costly and complex processing techniques than oxide or free milling ore. Higher-grade refractory ores are processed through either roasters or autoclaves. Roasters heat finely ground ore with air and oxygen to a high temperature, burn off the carbon and oxidize the sulfide minerals that prevent efficient leaching. Autoclaves use heat, oxygen and pressure to remove sulfide minerals from the ore.
Some gold-bearing sulfide ores may be processed through a flotation plant or by bio-milling. In flotation, ore is finely ground, turned into slurry, then placed in a tank known as a flotation cell. Chemicals are added to the slurry causing the gold-containing sulfides to float in air bubbles to the top of the tank, where they can be separated from waste particles that sink to the bottom. The sulfides are removed from the cell and converted into a concentrate that can then be processed in an autoclave or roaster to recover the gold. Bio-milling incorporates patented technology that involves inoculation of suitable crushed ore on a leach pad with naturally occurring bacteria strains, which oxidize the sulfides over a period of time. The ore is then processed through an oxide mill.
Free-milled ores and high grade oxide ores are processed through mills, where the ore is ground into a fine powder and mixed with water in slurry, which then passes through a cyanide leaching circuit. Other ores are processed using heap leaching. The ore is crushed and stacked on impermeable pads, where weak cyanide solution is applied to the top surface of the heaps to dissolve the gold. In both cases, the gold-bearing solution is then collected and pumped to facilities to remove the gold by collection on carbon or by zinc precipitation directly from leach solutions.
Production Properties
Set forth below is a description of the properties of Newmont and its subsidiaries. Total cash costs and total production costs for each operation are presented in a table beginning on page 30. Total cash costs and total production costs represent measures of performance that are not calculated in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”). Management uses these non-GAAP financial measures to analyze the cash generating capacities and performance of Newmont’s mining operations. For a reconciliation of these non-GAAP measures to Costs Applicable to Sales as calculated and presented under GAAP, see Item 2, Properties, Operating Statistics on page 30.
North America
Nevada. Newmont has been mining gold in Nevada since 1965. Newmont’s Nevada operations include Carlin, located west of Elko on the geological feature known as the Carlin Trend, and the Winnemucca Region, located 80 miles (129 kilometers) to the west of Carlin. The Carlin Trend is the largest gold district discovered in North America in the last 50 years. The Winnemucca Region includes the Twin Creeks mine located near Winnemucca, the Lone Tree Complex located near Battle Mountain, and the Battle Mountain Complex, near Battle Mountain, where there are no currently active mining operations but where optimization work is ongoing with respect to a large gold/copper deposit known as Phoenix. Our Nevada operations also include the Midas underground mine, acquired in February 2002.
In 2002, ore was mined from 14 open-pit deposits and five underground mines, including Midas. Gold sales from Newmont’s Nevada operations totaled approximately 2.7 million equity ounces for 2002.
Underground production will continue to grow at Carlin, as underground mine development is expected to continue in 2003 at Leeville. Additionally, for the first time, underground mining occurred from the Gold Quarry open pit mine, where development of a small deposit, Chukar, began in January 2002.
Newmont’s operations in Nevada have a number of different ore types and processing techniques. Newmont has developed a linear programming model to determine the best mix of ore types for each processing facility in order to obtain the maximum ounces of gold at the lowest cost from the ores. Approximately 66.4% of Newmont’s 2002 year-end proven and probable gold reserves in Nevada were refractory and the balance were oxide. Nevada’s production has increasingly come from higher grade, but higher cost refractory ores from both deep open pits and underground mines, as near-surface oxide ores have been depleted. Refractory ore treatment facilities are expected to generate approximately 70% of Nevada’s gold production in 2003, compared with 66% in 2002, 65% in 2001, and 68% in 2000.
Higher-grade oxide ores are processed at one oxide mill at Carlin, two at Twin Creeks and one at Lone Tree. Lower-grade oxide ores are processed using heap leaching. Higher-grade refractory ores are processed through either a roaster at Carlin or through autoclaves at Twin Creeks or Lone Tree. Lower grade sulfide ores are processed through a flotation plant at Lone Tree. Ore from the Midas mine is processed at an on-site treatment plant using a conventional crushing, grinding and gravity circuit and cyanide leaching process.
Gold-bearing activated carbon from Carlin’s milling and leaching facilities is processed on-site at a central carbon processing plant and adjacent smelting facilities. Separate carbon processing facilities are located in the North and South Areas at Twin Creeks with one refinery in the North Area. Material from two carbon processing facilities located at Lone Tree is refined at Carlin or Twin Creeks. Gold-bearing solutions from Midas are processed through a Merrill Crowe plant and adjacent smelting facility.
Analytical laboratories, maintenance facilities and administrative offices are located at Carlin, Twin Creeks and the Lone Tree Complex. Newmont also has an advanced metallurgical research laboratory in Denver, Colorado.
Newmont owns, or controls through long-term mining leases and unpatented mining claims, all of the minerals and surface area within the boundaries of the present Carlin, Winnemucca Region and Midas mining operations. The long-term leases extend for at least the anticipated mine life of those deposits. With respect to a significant portion of the Gold Quarry mine at Carlin, Newmont owns a 10% undivided interest in the mineral rights and leases the remaining 90%, on which Newmont pays a royalty equivalent to 18% of the mineral production. The remainder of the Gold Quarry mineral rights are wholly owned or controlled by Newmont, in some cases subject to additional royalties. With respect to certain smaller deposits in the Winnemucca Region, Newmont is obligated to pay royalties on production to third parties that vary from 3% to 5% of production.
California. Newmont has one mine in California, Mesquite. Mining operations at Mesquite ceased in the second quarter of 2001, with the depletion of the main ore body. Mesquite operations have transitioned to temporary shutdown and reclamation, and declining amounts of gold will be recovered from the inventory of ores on the heap leach pads. Production from residual heap leaching resulted in gold sales of 57,100 ounces in 2002. The permitting process for an expansion at Mesquite was completed in 2002, but such expansion is dependent on higher gold prices. Final gold production from inventory on the existing heap leach pads is expected in 2004.
Canada. Newmont’s Canadian operations include two underground mines. The Golden Giant mine (100% owned) is located approximately 25 miles (40 kilometers) east of Marathon in Ontario, Canada, and has been in production since 1985. The Holloway mine is located approximately 35 miles (56 kilometers) east of Matheson in Ontario, and about 400 miles (644 kilometers) northeast of Golden Giant, and has been in production since 1996. The Holloway mine is owned by a joint venture in which Newmont has an 84.65% interest. The remaining 15.35% interest is held by Teddy Bear Valley Mines. In 2002, the Golden Giant mine sold 281,500 equity ounces of gold, and the Holloway mine sold 97,700 equity ounces of gold.
Also see the TVX Newmont Americas description on page 23 below for information on other Newmont property interests in Canada owned in 2002. Newmont sold its interest in TVX Newmont Americas on January 31, 2003.
Mexico. Newmont has a 44% interest in La Herradura, which is located 250 miles (400 kilometers) southeast of Mesquite in Mexico’s Sonora desert. La Herradura is operated by Industriales Peñoles, Mexico’s largest silver producer. The mine is an open pit operation with a two-stage crushing circuit and heap-leach recovery. Mine sales were 145,900 ounces (64,200 equity ounces) of gold in 2002.
South America
Peru. The properties of Minera Yanacocha S.R.L. are located approximately 375 miles (604 kilometers) north of Lima and 30 miles (48 kilometers) north of the city of Cajamarca. Since the discovery of gold in 1986, the area has become the largest gold district in South America. Minera Yanacocha began production in 1993. Newmont holds a 51.35% interest in Minera Yanacocha. The remaining interests are held by Compañia de Minas Buenaventura, S.A.A. (43.65%) and the International Finance Corporation (5%).
Minera Yanacocha has mining rights with respect to a large land position that includes multiple deposits as well as other prospects. Minera Yanacocha’s mining rights were acquired through assignments of concessions granted by the Peruvian government to a related entity. The assignments have a term of 20 years, beginning in the early 1990s, renewable at the option of Minera Yanacocha for another 20 years. In October 2000, Newmont and Buenaventura consolidated their land holdings in northern Peru, folding them into Minera Yanacocha. The consolidation increased Minera Yanacocha’s land position from 100 to 535 square miles.
Five open-pit mines, four leach pads, and two processing plants are in operation at Minera Yanacocha. Gold sales for 2002 totaled 2.29 million ounces (1.2 million equity ounces).
Bolivia. The Kori Kollo open pit mine is on a high plain in northwestern Bolivia near Oruro, on government mining concessions issued to a Bolivian corporation, Empresa Minera Inti Raymi S.A., in which Newmont has an 88% interest. The remaining 12% is owned by Mrs. Beatriz Rocabado. Inti Raymi owns and operates the mine. In 2002, the mine sold 283,400 ounces (249,400 equity ounces) of gold. Because higher grade ores have been exhausted at Kori Kollo, it is expected that mining will cease in 2003, with leach production to continue until stockpiles are depleted.
Brazil and Chile. In 2002, Newmont had interests in two operating mines in Brazil and one in Chile. See the TVX Newmont Americas discussion on page 23 below for more details.
Australia
Prior to the acquisition of Normandy, Newmont owned a 50% interest in the Pajingo (Vera/Nancy) mine discussed below. The remaining 50% interest in Pajingo, and all other Australian properties described in this report, were acquired as part of the acquisition of Normandy. With the exception of Pajingo, information related to Australian operations for 2002 reflects activity from February 16, 2002.
In Australia, mineral exploration and mining titles are granted by the individual states or territories. Mineral titles may also be subject to native title legislation. In 1992, the High Court of Australia held that Aboriginal people who have maintained a continuing connection with their land according to their traditions and customs may hold native title. Since the High Court’s decision, Australia has passed legislation providing for the protection of native title and established procedures for Aboriginal people to claim these rights. The fact that native title is claimed with respect to an area, however, does not necessarily mean that native title exists, and disputes may be resolved by the courts.
Generally, under native title legislation, all mining titles granted before January 1, 1994 are valid. Titles granted between January 1, 1994 and December 23, 1996, however, are subject to invalidation if they were not obtained in compliance with applicable legislative procedures, though subsequent legislation has validated some of these titles. After December 23, 1996, mining titles over areas where native title is claimed to exist became subject to legislative processes that generally give native title claimants the “right to negotiate” with the title applicant for compensation and other conditions. Native title holders do not have a veto over the granting of mining titles, but if agreement cannot be reached, the matter will be referred to the National Native Title Tribunal for decision.
Newmont does not expect that native title claims will have a material adverse effect on any of its operations in Australia. The High Court of Australia determined in an August 2002 decision that native title does not extend to minerals in Western Australia and that the rights granted under a mining title would, to the extent inconsistent with asserted native title rights, operate to extinguish those native title rights. Generally, native title is only an issue for Newmont with respect to obtaining new mineral titles or moving from one form of title to another, for example, from an exploration title to a mining title. In these cases, the requirements for negotiation and the possibility of paying compensation may result in delay and increased costs for mining in the affected areas. Similarly, the process of conducting Aboriginal heritage surveys to identify and locate areas or sites of Aboriginal cultural significance can result in delay in gaining access to land for exploration and mining-related activities.
In Australia, various ad valorum royalties are paid to state and territorial governments and to traditional land owners, typically based on a percentage of gross revenues.
Pajingo (Vera/Nancy). The Pajingo gold mine is an underground mine located approximately 93 miles (150 kilometers) southwest of Townsville, Queensland and 45 miles (72 kilometers) south of the local township of Charters Towers. Prior to the Normandy acquisition, Newmont owned a 50% interest in Pajingo. Following the Normandy acquisition, Newmont owns 100% of Pajingo. In 2002, Pajingo sold 296,400 equity ounces of gold.
Kalgoorlie. The Kalgoorlie operations comprise the Fimiston open pit (commonly referred to as the Super Pit) and Mt. Charlotte underground mine at Kalgoorlie-Boulder, 373 miles (600 kilometers) east of Perth. The mines are managed by Kalgoorlie Consolidated Gold Mines Pty Ltd for the joint venture owners, Newmont and Barrick Gold Corporation, each of which holds a 50% interest. The Super Pit is Australia’s largest gold mine, in terms of both gold production and total annual mining volume. During the relevant period in 2002, the Kalgoorlie operations sold 324,700 equity ounces.
Yandal. Newmont owns a 100% interest in Newmont Yandal Operations Limited, which owns and operates the Bronzewing, Jundee and Wiluna mines situated approximately 435 miles (700 kilometers) northeast of Perth in Western Australia. The three operations collectively sold 611,100 ounces of gold in the relevant period of 2002. The Wiluna mine was the subject of a sales contract that contained certain conditions that were not satisfied as of March 14, 2003, resulting in termination of the sales contract. See Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Consolidated Financial Condition and Results of Operations, at page 48 for more details.
Tanami. The Tanami operations include The Granites treatment plant and associated mining operations, which are located in the Northern Territory approximately 342 miles (550 kilometers) northwest of Alice Springs, adjacent to the Tanami highway, and the Dead Bullock Soak mining operations, approximately 25 miles (40 kilometers) west of The Granites. The Tanami operations are owned by Newmont NFM a publicly listed company of which Newmont owns approximately 85.9%.
The operations are predominantly focused on the Callie underground mine at Dead Bullock Soak, with mill feed supplemented by production from the Dead Bullock Soak open pit and the Bunkers and Quorn pits at The Granites. Ore from all of these operations is processed through The Granites plant. The Tanami operations also include the Groundrush deposit. Ore from Groundrush is processed through the Tanami plant rather than The Granites plant.
During the relevant period of 2002, the Tanami operations sold 526,800 ounces (452,400 equity ounces) of gold.
In November 2002, Newmont and Newmont NFM announced a proposal that, if approved by Newmont NFM shareholders and the Federal Court of Australia, would result in Newmont NFM becoming a wholly owned subsidiary of Newmont. The proposal involves a scheme of arrangement and buy-back offer which, if successful, would result in Newmont having 100% ownership of the Tanami operations in April 2003. See Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Consolidated Financial Condition and Results of Operations, at page 48 for more details.
Boddington. Boddington is located 81 miles (130 kilometers) southeast of Perth in Western Australia. Boddington is owned by Newmont (44.4%), AngloGold Limited (33.3%) and Newcrest Mining Limited (22.2%). Mining operations ceased in November 2001. A proposed expansion project is being optimized, and restructuring of current management arrangements is underway.
Golden Grove. Newmont owns 100% of the Golden Grove operation in Western Australia, approximately 217 miles (350 kilometers) north of Perth. The principal products are zinc and copper concentrates. A high precious metal lead concentrate is also produced. Golden Grove has two underground mines at the Scuddles and Gossan Hill deposits. Golden Grove sold 45.7 million pounds of copper and 148.0 million pounds of zinc during the relevant period of 2002.
New Zealand
Newmont acquired an interest in the Martha gold mine as part of the Normandy acquisition. This mine is located within the town of Waihi, located approximately 68 miles (110 kilometers) southeast of Auckland, New Zealand. It is owned by Newmont and Otter Gold Mines Limited.
The operation sold 116,400 ounces of gold (107,800 equity ounces) in the relevant period of 2002. The Martha mine does not currently pay royalties. Under new royalty arrangements, Martha will be required to pay a royalty on new discoveries such as Favona. The royalty rate is the greater of 1% of gross revenues from silver and gold sales or 5% of accounting profit.
In December 2002, Newmont NFM announced a takeover offer for all of the shares and options in Otter Gold Mines Limited that Newmont NFM did not already own, and it now owns 100% of Otter Gold Mines Limited. Newmont owns 67.06% of the Martha gold mine and Newmont NFM, of which Newmont owns approximately 85.9%, owns 32.94% of Martha. If the Newmont and Newmont NFM arrangement mentioned under the Tanami section above is approved, Newmont will own 100% of the Martha mine.
Indonesia
Newmont has two operating properties in Indonesia, Minahasa, a gold operation, and Batu Hijau, a producer of copper/gold concentrates. Newmont owns 80% of Minahasa. The remaining 20% interest is a carried interest held by P.T. Tanjung Serapung, an unrelated Indonesian company. Prior to November 2001, 100% of Minahasa’s gold production was attributed to Newmont. Since then, 94% has been attributed to Newmont as we have recouped some of our investment in accordance with existing loan agreements. Newmont has a 45% equity interest in Batu Hijau through a partnership with an affiliate of Sumitomo Corporation, which holds a 35% interest. The remaining 20% is a carried interest held by P.T. Pukuafu Indah, an unrelated Indonesian company. We account for our investment in Batu Hijau as an equity investment due to each partner’s significant participating rights in the business. 56.25% of production is attributed to Newmont until we recover the bulk of our investment, including interest.
Minahasa, on the island of Sulawesi, approximately 1,500 miles (2,414 kilometers) northeast of Jakarta, was a Newmont discovery and consisted of a multi-deposit operation. Production began in 1996 and mining was completed in late 2001. However, processing of stockpiled ore from this mine will continue until the fourth quarter of 2003. In 2002, Minahasa sold 147,200 equity ounces of gold.
Batu Hijau is located on the island of Sumbawa, approximately 950 miles (1,529 kilometers) east of Jakarta. Batu Hijau is a large porphyry copper/gold deposit, which Newmont discovered in 1990. Development and construction activities began in 1997 and start-up took place in late 1999. In 2002, copper sales were 362.3 million equity pounds, while gold sales, treated as by-product credits, were 278,000 equity ounces.
In Indonesia, rights are granted to foreign investors to explore for and to develop mineral resources within defined areas through Contracts of Work entered into with the Indonesian government. In 1986, Newmont entered into separate Contracts of Work with the government covering Minahasa and Batu Hijau, under which Newmont was granted the exclusive right to explore in the contract area, construct any required facilities, extract and process the mineralized materials, and sell and export the minerals produced, subject to certain requirements including Indonesian government approvals and payment of royalties to the government. Under the Contracts of Work, Newmont has the right to continue operating the projects for 30 years from operational start-up, or longer if approved by the Indonesian government.
Under Newmont’s Minahasa and Batu Hijau Contracts of Work, beginning in the sixth year after mining operations commenced (and continuing through the tenth year), a portion of each project not already owned by Indonesian nationals must be offered for sale to the Indonesian government or to Indonesian nationals, thereby potentially reducing Newmont’s (and, in the case of Batu Hijau, Newmont’s and Sumitomo’s) ownership in each project to 49% by the end of the tenth year. The price at which such interest must be offered for sale to the Indonesian parties is the highest of the then-current replacement cost, the price at which shares of the project company would be accepted for listing on the Jakarta Stock Exchange, or the fair market value of such interest in the project company as a going concern. In accordance with its Contract of Work, Newmont made an offer of a 3% interest in Minahasa in 2002, but received no interest in the offer due in large part, we believe, to the imminent closure of the operation.
Uzbekistan
Newmont has a 50% interest in the Zarafshan-Newmont Joint Venture in Uzbekistan. Ownership of the remaining 50% interest is divided between the State Committee for Geology and Mineral Resources and Navoi Mining and Metallurgical Combine, each a state entity of Uzbekistan. The joint venture produces gold by crushing and leaching ore from existing stockpiles of low-grade oxide ore from the nearby government-owned Muruntau mine, located in the Kyzylkum Desert. The gold produced by Zarafshan-Newmont is sold in international markets for U.S. dollars. Zarafshan-Newmont sold 511,600 ounces (255,800 of equity ounces) of gold in 2002.
The State Committee and Navoi furnish ore to Zarafshan-Newmont under an ore supply agreement. Under the agreement, the State Committee and Navoi are obligated to deliver 220 million metric tons of ore to Zarafshan-Newmont. As of December 31, 2002, approximately 98.1 million metric tons of ore have been delivered, leaving a balance of 121.9 million metric tons. Initially, ore was to be delivered regardless of the gold price and the price of the ore was dependent on the grade of ore delivered. In 2000, however, the ore supply agreement was amended to modify the required grades and pricing structure. Under the 2000 amendment, the grade of ore that the State Committee and Navoi are obligated to provide is dependent on the forecasted gold price as determined by the board of directors of Zarafshan-Newmont, and the price is dependent on the average gold price during the period the ore is processed. Thus, at higher gold prices, the State Committee and Navoi may deliver lower grade ore, but receive a higher price. In October 2002, the parties reached tentative agreement to further amend the ore supply agreement. Under the new amendment, the pricing terms for approximately 99.5 million metric tons of the remaining 121.9 million metric tons will be determined by a formula whereby the amount paid for ore is dependent on the average grade of ore and the average gold price during the period which the ore is processed. At certain combinations of ore grade and gold price, the computed price may result in a credit to Zarafshan-Newmont, which will be offset against future ore purchase payments or free cash flow distributions to Navoi and the State Committee.
Turkey
The wholly owned Ovacik mine, located in western Turkey 12 miles (19 kilometers) from the Aegean Sea and 66 miles (106 kilometers) north of the city of Izmir, commenced production in May 2001. Ovacik sold 125,700 ounces of gold during the relevant period of 2002. Newmont acquired the Ovacik mine as part of the Normandy acquisition.
Africa
Newmont has two advanced exploration projects located in southwestern Ghana. The Ahafo (formerly Yamfo-Sefwi) project, in which Newmont holds an 85.6% equity interest, had reserves of 3.3 million equity ounces of gold at December 31, 2002. The remaining interest in Ahafo is held by Moydow Mines International Inc. On March 24, 2003, Moydow and Newmont announced the signing of a letter of intent for Newmont to acquire Moydow’s interest in Ahafo. Newmont also has an 85% interest in the Akyem project, which had 1.6 million equity ounces of gold reserves at year-end. The remaining interest in Akyem is held by Kenbert Mines Limited. Newmont will continue to study the development and optimization of both projects in 2003. At the time a production decision is reached for a project in Ghana, the Ghanaian government becomes entitled to receive a 10% free carried interest in the project, which entitles the government to 10% of the dividends payable from corporate surplus cash flow after Newmont has recouped its investment.
Newmont also had an interest in the Ity gold mine located in Cote d’Ivoire, in West Africa. Prior to being acquired by Newmont, however, Normandy accepted an offer for the sale of its interest in the Ity mine. The sale was finalized on March 7, 2002, for $10.8 million paid at closing and a net smelter return royalty.
TVX Newmont Americas Joint Venture
Through the Normandy acquisition, Newmont acquired an equity interest in TVX Newmont Americas, a joint venture between Normandy and TVX Gold. The venture, subsequently renamed TVX Newmont Americas,
was 49.9% owned by Newmont and 50.1% owned by TVX Gold. TVX Newmont Americas sold 368,000 gold equivalent ounces (183,500 equity ounces) in 2002. On January 31, 2003, TVX Gold acquired Newmont’s 49.9% interest in TVX Newmont Americas. Under the terms of the acquisition, Newmont received $180 million for its interest.
The principal assets of TVX Newmont Americas were interests in the following operating gold mines in South America and Canada:
•
Paracatu (51% Rio Tinto Limited; 49% economic interest TVX Newmont Americas)
Rio Tinto is the operator of the mine, which is located in Brazil, 149 miles (240 kilometers) southeast of
Brasilia. In 2002, Paracatu produced 193,400 ounces of gold.
•
Crixas (50% AngloGold; 50% economic interest TVX Newmont Americas)
AngloGold is the operator of the mine, which is located in Brazil, 218 miles (350 kilometers) northwest
of Brasilia. In 2002, Crixas produced 164,000 ounces of gold.
•
La Coipa (50% Placer Dome; 50% TVX Newmont Americas)
Placer Dome is the operator of the mine, which is located in northern Chile. In 2002, La Coipa’s gold
equivalent production was 171,000 ounces.
•
Musselwhite (68.1% Placer Dome; 31.9% TVX Newmont Americas)
Placer Dome is the operator of the mine, which is located 311 miles (500 kilometers) north of Thunder
Bay in northwestern Ontario, Canada. In 2002, Musselwhite produced 178,900 ounces of gold.
•
New Britannia (50% High River Gold; 50% TVX Newmont Americas)
TVX is the operator of the mine, which is located in Snow Lake, Canada, 436 miles
(700 kilometers) north of Winnipeg in central Manitoba. In 2002, New Britannia produced 96,300
ounces of gold.
Newmont Mining Corporation Operating Statistics
Gold Production and Sales
North American Operations
Overseas Operations
Newmont Mining Corporation Operating Statistics
Batu Hijau Copper Production
Golden Grove Copper and Zinc Production
For all periods presented, total cash costs include charges for mining ore and waste associated with current period production, processing ore through milling and leaching facilities, by-product credits, production taxes, royalties and other cash costs. Certain gold mines produce silver as a by-product, and Batu Hijau produces gold as a by-product. Proceeds from the sale of by-products are reflected as credits to total cash costs. All of these charges and by-product credits are included in Costs applicable to sales. Charges for reclamation are also included in Costs applicable to sales, but are not included in total cash costs. Reclamation charges are included in total production costs, together with total cash costs and Depreciation, depletion and amortization. A reconciliation of total cash costs to Costs applicable to sales in total and by segment is provided below. Total production costs provide an indication of earnings before interest expense and taxes for Newmont’s share of mining properties, when taking into account the average realized price received for production sold, as this measure combines Costs applicable to sales plus Depreciation, depletion and amortization, net of minority interest.
The total cash costs per ounce is a measure intended to provide investors with information about the cash generating capacities of these mining operations. Newmont’s management uses this measure for the same purpose and for monitoring the performance of its mining operations. This information differs from measures of performance determined in accordance with GAAP and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for measures of performance determined in accordance with GAAP. This measure was developed in conjunction with gold mining companies associated with the Gold Institute, a non-profit industry group, in an effort to provide a level of comparability; however, Newmont’s measures may not be comparable to similarly titled measures of other companies.
Reconciliation of Costs applicable to sales to total cash costs and total production costs per ounce (unaudited):
Reconciliation of PTNNT Costs applicable to sales to total cash costs and total production costs per pound or ounce, as applicable (unaudited):
Reconciliation of Golden Grove Costs applicable to sales (“CAS”) to total copper and zinc cash costs per pound (unaudited):
Royalty Properties
The following is a description of Newmont’s principal royalty interests, all of which were acquired as a result of the Franco-Nevada acquisition. Newmont’s royalty interests are generally in the form of a net smelter return (“NSR”) royalty, which provides for the payment either in cash or physical metal (“in kind”) of a specified percentage of production, less certain specified transportation and refining costs. In some cases, Newmont owns a net profit interest (“NPI”) pursuant to which Newmont is entitled to a specified percentage of the net profits, as defined in each case, from a particular mining operation. The majority of NSR royalty revenue and NPI revenue can be received in kind at the option of Newmont. In 2002, Newmont’s royalty revenues were $35.7 million.
North America
Nevada-Goldstrike. Newmont holds various NSR and NPI royalties at the Goldstrike properties (Betze-Post and Meikle mines) located in the Carlin Trend gold mining area of northern Nevada. The Betze-Post and Meikle mines are owned and operated by a subsidiary of Barrick Gold Corporation.
The Betze-Post mine is a conventional open pit operation. The Betze-Post property consists of various claim blocks and Newmont’s royalty interest in each claim block is different, ranging from 0% to 4% for the NSRs and 0% to 6% for the NPIs.
The Meikle mine is an underground operation comprising the Meikle, Rodeo, and Griffin deposits, located one mile north of the Betze-Post mine, with which it shares the Goldstrike processing facilities. Newmont holds a 4% NSR and a 5% NPI over 1,280 acres of the claims that cover the Meikle, Rodeo, and Griffin deposits. Newmont is not obligated to fund any portion of the cost associated with the Betze-Post or the Meikle mines.
Barrick’s mining sequence from various claim areas will cause fluctuations in Newmont’s royalty receipts. The NSR royalties are based upon gross production from the mine reduced only by ancillary smelter charges and transportation costs of about $2 per ounce. The determinants of the revenue received from the NSRs covering the Betze-Post and Meikle mines are the number of ounces of gold produced, the spot price of gold, and the cost of shipping and smelting. The Betze-Post Goldstrike NPI began paying in October 1993, the month that the cumulative net profit from the Betze-Post and Goldstrike claims exceeded capital invested in those claims. The Meikle mine NPI began paying in the fourth quarter of 1996. Net profits are calculated as proceeds less costs. Proceeds equal the number of ounces of gold produced from the Betze-Post and Goldstrike claims and the Meikle mine, multiplied by the spot price of gold on the date gold is credited to Barrick’s account at the refinery. Costs include operating and capital costs as incurred.
Montana-Stillwater. Newmont holds a 5% NSR royalty on a portion of the Stillwater mine and all of the East Boulder mine, both located near Nye, Montana. The Stillwater and East Boulder mines are owned and operated by Stillwater Mining Company. Stillwater produces palladium, platinum, and associated metals (platinum group metals or PGMs) from a geological formation known as the J-M Reef. Stillwater is the only significant producer of PGMs outside of South Africa and Russia. The J-M Reef is an extensive mineralized zone containing PGMs, which has been traced over a strike length of approximately 28 miles.
Newmont’s royalty covers more than 80% of the combined reserves and mineralized material of the deposit, but does not cover a portion of the deposit at the Stillwater mine. The majority of production to date has been from the Stillwater mine. For that reason, the percentage of ore mined from the royalty lands has been lower than the 80% reserve percentage. For the year 2002, 52.48% of total production came from lands subject to Newmont’s royalty. The percentage of future production from the royalty lands will vary from year to year.
The royalty encompasses all of the reserves at the East Boulder mine, which commenced production during 2001 and is located approximately thirteen miles to the west of the Stillwater mine. On February 18, 2003, Stillwater announced that in 2003, it expects PGM production to total approximately 615,000 ounces, 450,000 ounces from the Stillwater Mine and 165,000 ounces from the East Boulder Mine.
Canada-Oil and Gas Interests. Newmont’s oil and gas royalty portfolio covers 1.8 million gross acres of producing and non-producing lands located in western Canada and the Canadian Arctic. The average royalty on these lands is 6%.
Investment Interests
Echo Bay Mines Ltd.
On January 31, 2003, Kinross Gold Corporation, Echo Bay Mines Ltd. and TVX Gold Inc. were combined, and TVX Gold acquired Newmont’s 49.9% interest in the TVX Newmont Americas joint venture. Under the terms of the combination and acquisition, Newmont received a 13.8% interest in the restructured Kinross in exchange for its 45.67% interest in Echo Bay, and $180 million for its interest in TVX Newmont Americas.
Australian Magnesium Corporation
As of December 31, 2002, Newmont had a 22.8% voting interest in Australian Magnesium Corporation (“AMC”). Since then, AMC has raised additional equity to support the development of the Stanwell Magnesium Project, a proprietary chemical and dehydration process for producing anhydrous magnesium chloride as feed for an electrolytic cell to produce molten magnesium metal and magnesium alloys. Northerly Equities Pty Ltd, a wholly owned subsidiary of Newmont Australia Limited (“NAL”), contributed A$100 million (approximately $56 million) in equity to AMC on January 3, 2003, increasing our ownership percentage to 40.9%. However, due to additional equity contributions by third-party shareholders, our voting interest decreased to 27.8% on January 31, 2003. NAL and its wholly owned subsidiary, Nottacar Investments Pty Ltd, had also provided to AMC a A$90 million (approximately $51 million) contingent equity commitment in the event the project does not achieve certain specified production and operating criteria by December 2006. Subsequent to year-end, however, this contingent equity commitment was renegotiated to require instead that NAL and Nottacar Investments provide AMC with an A$75 million (approximately $42 million) contingent convertible debt and equity facility.
NAL has also guaranteed a $30 million obligation payable by AMC to Ford Motor Company in the event the project does not meet certain specified production and operating criteria by November 2005. AMC has indemnified NAL for this obligation, but the indemnity is unsecured.
NAL and certain of its wholly owned subsidiaries are also guarantors of an $A71 million (approximately $40 million) amortizing loan facility of AMC’s subsidiary, QMC Finance Pty Ltd. (“QMC”), of which A$69.8 million (approximately $39 million) was outstanding as of December 31, 2002. The QMC loan facility expires in November 2006.
QMC also is a party to a series of foreign exchange hedging contracts. All obligations related to these contracts have been guaranteed by NAL and certain of its wholly owned subsidiaries. The contracts include a series of foreign exchange forward contracts and bought put options, the last of which expire in June 2006. As of December 31, 2002, the fair value of these contracts was a negative A$12.7 million (approximately $7 million).
The Ford guarantee and the guarantees under the QMC loan and hedging facilities arose in connection with NAL’s support of the project as an investor in AMC and its predecessor entities. The guarantees under the QMC loan facility and hedging contracts could be called in the event of a default by QMC. NAL’s liability under the QMC loan facility guarantee is limited to the total amount of outstanding borrowings under the facility at the time the guarantee is called. NAL’s maximum potential liability under its guarantee of the QMC hedging contracts, however, would depend on the market value of the hedging contracts at the time the guarantee is exercised. The principal lender and counterparty under the QMC loan and hedging facilities also has a fixed and floating charge over certain assets of AMC. In the event the guarantees are called, NAL would have a right of subrogation to the lender under Australian law.
We face risks related to our investment in AMC. See the discussion in Item 1A, Risk Factors on page 10 above, and the discussion in Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Consolidated Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Australian Magnesium Corporation (“AMC”), on page 72 below.
Lihir Gold
Until April 2002, Newmont owned 111.3 million shares of Lihir Gold, representing a 9.74% interest and reflected in marketable securities of Lihir as a cost investment available for sale. Lihir Gold operates a gold mine in Papua New Guinea. Newmont sold its investment in Lihir Gold on April 12, 2002 to Macquarie Equity Capital Markets Limited in Australia for approximately $84 million. See Note 4 to Consolidated Financial Statements beginning on page 103 below.
Proven and Probable Reserves
Newmont has a significant reserve base, having steadily increased its reserves over the past decade through a combination of exploration success, acquisitions, and lower production costs. With the acquisition in 2002 of Normandy Mining Limited, Newmont had worldwide equity gold reserves (inclusive of Newmont’s equity interests in TVX Newmont Americas and Echo Bay Mines Ltd) of 86.9 million equity ounces as of December 31, 2002. For more information on TVX Newmont Americas and Echo Bay, see Note 28 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, beginning at page 159. Excluding its interests in TVX Newmont Americas and Echo Bay, Newmont had reserves of 83.2 million equity ounces.
As in 2001, gold reserves were calculated at a gold price of $300 per ounce, except at the Phoenix project and Boddington, where gold reserves were calculated using a gold price of $250 per ounce and A$425 per ounce, respectively. Newmont’s 2002 reserves (not including TVX Newmont Americas and Echo Bay) would decline approximately 10%, or 8.4 million ounces, if calculated at a $275 per ounce gold price, while an increase in the gold price to $325 per ounce would increase reserves approximately 7% or 6.1 million ounces.
At year-end 2002, Newmont’s North American equity gold reserves were 32.8 million ounces (including 30.7 million ounces in Nevada, and excluding TVX Newmont Americas and Echo Bay). Overseas, year-end equity gold reserves (excluding TVX Newmont Americas) were 50.4 million ounces, including 17.2 million equity ounces in Australia and 16.7 million equity ounces in Peru.
Newmont’s equity copper reserves at year-end 2002 were 7.6 billion pounds. Except at Newmont’s Phoenix project, copper reserves were calculated at a price of $0.75 per pound.
Under Newmont’s current mining plans, all reserves are located on fee property or will be depleted during the terms of existing mining licenses or concessions, or where applicable, any assured renewal or extension periods for the licenses or concessions.
Proven and probable reserves are based on extensive drilling, sampling, mine modeling and metallurgical testing from which economic feasibility has been determined. The price sensitivity of reserves depends upon several factors including grade, waste-to-ore ratio, and ore type. The reserves are estimated based on information available at the time of calculation. Recovery rates vary depending on the metallurgical properties of each deposit and the production process used. The reserve tables list the average recovery rate for each deposit, which takes into account the several different processing methods to be used. The cutoff grade, or lowest grade of mineralized material considered economic to process, varies with material type, metallurgical recoveries, and operating costs.
The proven and probable reserve figures presented herein are estimates, and no assurance can be given that the indicated levels of recovery of gold and copper will be realized. Ounces of gold or pounds of copper or zinc in the proven and probable reserves are prior to any losses during metallurgical treatment. Reserve estimates may require revision based on actual production experience. Market price fluctuations of gold and copper, as well as increased production costs or reduced recovery rates, could render proven and probable reserves containing relatively lower grades of mineralization uneconomic to exploit and might result in a reduction of reserves.
Reserves are published once each year and will be recalculated as of December 31, 2003, for the entire company, taking into account depletion as well as any additions to reserves based on results of exploration, mine optimization and development work performed during 2003.
Newmont Mining Corporation
Gold Proven and Probable Reserves(1)
Reflects Reserves owned by
Newmont Mining Corporation on December 31, 2002 and December 31, 2001 (pro forma)(2)
Newmont Mining Corporation
Gold Proven and Probable Reserves(1)
Reflects Reserves owned by
Newmont Mining Corporation on December 31, 2002 and December 31, 2001 (pro forma)(2)
(continued)
(1)
The term “reserve” means that part of a mineral deposit that can be economically and legally extracted or produced at the time of the reserve determination.
The term “economically,” as used in the definition of reserve, implies that profitable extraction or production has been established or analytically demonstrated in a full feasibility study to be viable and justifiable under reasonable investment and market assumptions.
The term “legally,” as used in the definition of reserve, does not imply that all permits needed for mining and processing have been obtained or that other legal issues have been completely resolved. However, for a reserve to exist, the Company must have a justifiable expectation, based on applicable laws and regulations, that issuance of permits or resolution of legal issues necessary for mining and processing at a particular deposit will be accomplished in the ordinary course and in a timeframe consistent with the Company’s current mine plans.
The term “proven reserves” means reserves for which (a) quantity is computed from dimensions revealed in outcrops, trenches, workings or drill holes; (b) grade and/or quality are computed from the results of detailed sampling; and (c) the sites for inspection, sampling and measurements are spaced so closely and the geologic character is sufficiently defined that size, shape, depth and mineral content of reserves are well established.
The term “probable reserves” means reserves for which quantity and grade are computed from information similar to that used for proven reserves, but the sites for sampling are farther apart or are otherwise less adequately spaced. The degree of assurance, although lower than that for proven reserves, is high enough to assume continuity between points of observation.
Proven and probable reserves were calculated using different cutoff grades depending on each deposit’s properties. The term “cut-off grade” means the lowest grade of mineralized rock that can be included in the reserves in a given deposit. Cut-off grades vary between deposits depending upon prevailing economic conditions, mineability of the deposit, amenability of the ore to gold extraction, and milling or leaching facilities available.
Reserves were calculated at a US$300 per ounce gold price unless otherwise noted.
(2)
The tables for gold and base metal reserves as of December 31, 2001 present pro forma information assuming that Newmont Mining Corporation had acquired both Normandy Mining Limited and Franco-Nevada Mining Corporation Limited, and that Franco-Nevada had acquired its 45.3% interest in Echo Bay Mines Ltd., in each case as of December 31, 2001. With respect to the pro forma reserve information for properties owned by Normandy, the reserves reported by Normandy as of June 30, 2001 have been adjusted to reflect (a) depletion during the period between July 1, 2001 and December 31, 2001; (b) additional technical data collected by Normandy during that period; and (c) a gold price of $300/oz. (except for Kalgoorlie and Boddington, where Normandy’s price assumptions have been retained).
(3)
Tonnages are after allowances for losses resulting from mining methods.
(4)
Ounces or pounds are estimates of metal contained in ore tonnages and are before allowances for processing losses. Estimated losses from processing are expressed as metallurgical recovery rates and represent the estimated amount of metal to be recovered through metallurgical extraction processes.
(5)
Cut-off grades utilized in 2002 were as follows: oxide leach material not less than 0.005 ounce per ton; oxide mill material not less than 0.108 ounce per ton; refractory leach material not less than 0.055 ounce per ton; refractory mill material not less than 0.105 ounce per ton.
(6)
Includes currently undeveloped reserves at the Pete, Castle Reef, Crow and Emigrant deposits for a combined total undeveloped reserve of 1,970,000 ounces.
(7)
Reserve based on $250/oz. gold price pit design and $0.95/lb copper price. Deposit is currently undeveloped.
(8)
Includes undeveloped reserves at Leeville, containing a total reserve of 2,740,000 ounces.
(9)
Reserves also include over 26 million ounces of silver with a metallurgical recovery rate of 93%.
(10)
These reserves are approximately 66.4% refractory in nature, which are not amenable to the direct cyanidation recovery processes currently used for oxide material. Such ore must be oxidized before it is subjected to the normal recovery processes or concentrated for shipment to smelters.
(11)
Mining completed in 2001. Remaining reserves are in-process on the leach pad.
(12)
Cut-off grade utilized in 2002 of not less than 0.088 ounce per ton.
(13)
Cut-off grade utilized in 2002 of not less than 0.088 ounce per ton. Percentage reflects Newmont’s weighted equity interest from 84.65% interest in Holloway Joint Venture and 100% interest in remaining reserves. Property includes currently undeveloped reserves at the Blacktop deposit of 100,000 ounces.
(14)
Cut-off grade utilized in 2002 of 0.010 ounce per ton. All ore is oxidized.
(15)
Calculated in 2002 using variable cut-off grades not less than 0.005 ounce per ton. The cut-off grade is a function of both gold and silver content. Reserves include currently undeveloped deposits at Corimayo, Cerro Quilish and Cerro Negro, for combined total undeveloped reserves of 2,840,000 equity ounces.
(16)
Cut-off grade utilized in 2002 of not less than 0.010 ounce per ton. Includes undeveloped reserves at Kori Chaca of 300,000 equity ounces.
(17)
Reserve based on A$425/oz gold price. Deposit is currently undeveloped.
(18)
Gold reported in reserves is that contained within zinc orebodies only.
(19)
Cut-off grade utilized in 2002 of 0.026 ounce per ton.
(20)
Cut-off grade utilized in 2002 of not less than 0.073 ounce per ton.
(21)
Cut-off grade utilized in 2002 of not less than 0.020 ounce per ton. Percentage reflects Newmont’s equity interest in Newmont NFM’s remaining reserves. In December 2001 this pro forma percentage was 86.49%.
(22)
Cut-off grade utilized in 2002 of not less than 0.020 ounce per ton.
(23)
Cut-off grade utilized in 2002 of not less than 0.022 ounce per ton. Percentage reflects Newmont’s equity interest in remaining reserves. In December 2001 this pro forma percentage was 82.22%. Includes currently undeveloped reserves at the Favona deposit containing 300,000 equity ounces.
(24)
Production is in the form of a copper-gold concentrate. Cut-off grade and recoveries vary depending on the gold and copper content. The cut-off grade used for reserve reporting is equivalent to 0.33% copper. Percentage reflects Newmont’s economic interest in remaining reserves, unchanged from 2001.
(25)
Percentage reflects Newmont’s economic interest in remaining reserves. Mining was completed in 2001 and remaining reserves are primarily from stockpiles at the process facility.
(26)
Calculated in 2002 using a cut-off grade of not less than 0.080 ounce per ton.
(27)
Deposit is currently undeveloped.
(28)
Material available to Zarafshan-Newmont for processing from designated stockpiles or from other specified sources. Tonnage and gold content of material available to Zarafshan-Newmont for processing from such designated stockpiles or from other specified sources are guaranteed by state entities of Uzbekistan.
(29)
Deposit is currently undeveloped.
(30)
Percentage reflects Newmont’s weighted equity interest of 50% in Ntotoroso and 100% in remaining reserves. Deposit is currently undeveloped.
(31)
Interests in Echo Bay and TVX Newmont Americas were sold/exchanged as of January 31, 2003. Reserves as shown are estimates provided by Kinross Gold Corporation; final results may vary.
Newmont Mining Corporation
Base Metal Proven and Probable Reserves(1)
Reflects Reserves owned by
Newmont Mining Corporation on December 31, 2002 and December 31, 2001 (pro forma)(2)
(1)
See footnote (1) to the Gold Proven and Probable Reserves Tables on page 40 above.
(2)
See footnote (2) to the Gold Proven and Probable Reserves Tables on page 40 above.
(3)
See footnote (3) to the Gold Proven and Probable Reserves Tables on page 40 above.
(4)
See footnote (4) to the Gold Proven and Probable Reserves Tables on page 40 above.
(5)
Reserve based on $250/oz. gold price pit shell and a 0.95/oz. copper price. Deposit is currently undeveloped.
(6)
Percentage reflects Newmont’s economic interest in remaining reserves, unchanged from 2001. Copper reserves calculated at $0.75/lb. copper price.
(7)
Reserve based on A$425/oz. gold price and A$1.25/lb. copper price. Deposit is currently undeveloped.
(8)
Copper reserves based on $0.75/lb. copper price. Zinc reserves based on $0.47/lb. zinc price.
Reconciliation of December 2001 and December 2002 Gold Reserves
(1)
Does not include TVX Newmont Americas or Echo Bay equity interests.
(2)
Depletion represents 2001 reserves processed in 2002.
(3)
Revisions and additions due to reserve conversions, optimizations, model updates and updated unit costs and recoveries.
ITEM 3.