ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
During the year ended February 28, 2011, we were involved in an onshore oil project in Kern County, California. In the year ended February 28, 2010, we were involved in onshore oil and gas projects in Alabama, California and Louisiana. Our involvement in the Alabama and Louisiana projects has ended and information presented on these projects is intended to meet disclosure requirements or be for comparative purposes only. Unless otherwise noted, all of our discussion refers only to our continuing operations in California. We have not filed any estimates of total, proved net oil or gas reserves with any federal agency other than this report to the SEC for the fiscal year ended February 28, 2011. Throughout this Annual Report on Form 10-K, oil is shown in barrels (“Bbls”), and natural gas is shown in thousands of cubic feet (“Mcf”) unless otherwise specified.
California (East Slopes Project, East Slopes North Project and Expanded AMI Project)
Kern and Tulare Counties. In May 2005, we agreed to jointly explore an area of mutual interest (“AMI”) in the southeastern part of the San Joaquin Basin near Bakersfield, California. As our exploration work has continued, this project has been divided into three major areas referred to as the “East Slopes Project” and the “East Slopes North Project”, both located in Kern County, and the “Expanded AMI Project” located in Tulare County. Drilling targets are porous and permeable sandstone reservoirs which exist at depths of 1,200 feet to 4,000 feet.
East Slopes Project, Kern County, California. On September 17, 2010, the Company exercised a preferential right to acquire an additional 16.67% working interest from another working interest owner in the East Slopes Project. Since the purchase of the additional working interest our average monthly revenue from the five wells affected by this purchase has increased by approximately 75.8% or $19,345 per month over the last six months of the year ended February 28, 2011. With this purchase of additional working interest and the completion of two additional wells in October 2010, the average net revenue interest in our eleven producing wells in Kern County, California is now 29.85%. Our average working interest is 40.15% for these same wells.
The installation of electrical power service to our permanent production facilities for the Sunday, Bear and Black property locations was completed in September 2010. In March 2011, we completed the installation of electrical service to our production facilities and wells at the Dyer Creek Field location. Our 3-D seismic data evaluation is continuing and the reprocessing of the data to enhance the quality of prospects is expected to yield more than the current eight to ten exploration prospects already identified on this acreage. Refer to the discussion below for additional information on our producing properties in the East Slopes Project area.
We believe the Company is now well positioned to expand its operations in the East Slopes Project. We currently have production from five reservoirs at our Bear, Sunday, Black, Ball and Dyer Creek locations. The Sunday and Bear locations each have four producing wells. The Black reservoir is the smallest of all currently producing reservoirs, and we will most likely drill only one or two more development wells. The Dyer Creek and Ball reservoirs were put on production in late October 2010. There are several other similar prospects on trend with the Bear, Black and Dyer Creek reservoirs exhibiting the same seismic characteristics. Some of these prospects, if successful, would utilize the Company’s existing production facilities. In addition to the current field development, there are several other exploratory prospects that have been identified from the seismic data, which we plan to drill in the future.
Sunday Property
In November 2008, we made our initial oil discovery drilling the Sunday #1 well. The well was put on production in January 2009. Production is from the Vedder sand at approximately 2,000 feet. During 2009, we drilled three development wells including one horizontal well. The Sunday reservoir is estimated to be approximately 34.6 acres in size with the potential for at least three more development wells to be drilled in the future. With the acquisition of the additional 16.67% working interest in the East Slopes Project in September 2010, we have a 41.67% working interest with a 29.0% net revenue interest in the Sunday #1 well. We continue to have a 37.5% working interest with a 27% net revenue interest in each of the Sunday #2 and #3 wells. In the Sunday #4H well, we own a 37.5% working interest with a 30.1% net revenue interest.
Bear Property
In February 2009, we made our second oil discovery drilling the Bear #1 well which is approximately one mile northwest of our Sunday discovery. The well was put on production in May 2009. Production is from the Vedder sand at approximately 2,200 feet. In December 2009, we began a development program by drilling and completing the Bear #2 well. In April 2010, we successfully drilled and completed the Bear #3 and the Bear #4 wells. The Bear reservoir is estimated to be approximately 62 acres in size with the potential for at least three more development wells to be drilled in the future including one planned for the summer of 2011. With the acquisition of the additional 16.67% working interest in the East Slopes Project in September 2010, we have a 41.67% working interest with a 29.0% net revenue interest in each of the Bear wells in this property.
Black Property
The Black property was acquired through a farm-in arrangement with a local operator. The Black location is just south of the Bear location on the same fault system. The Black #1 well was completed and put on production in January 2010. Production is from the Vedder sand at 2,150 feet. The Black reservoir is estimated to be approximately 13.4 acres in size with the potential for at least two more development wells to be drilled in the future. We have a 37.5% working interest with a 29.8% net revenue interest at this property.
Sunday Central Processing and Storage Facility
The oil produced from our acreage is considered heavy oil. The oil ranges from 14° to 16° API gravity. All of our oil from the Sunday, Bear and Black locations is processed, stored and sold from the Sunday Central Processing and Storage Facility. The oil must be heated to separate and remove water to prepare it to be sold. We constructed these facilities during the summer and fall of 2009 and at the same time established electrical service for our field by constructing three miles of power lines. As a result, our average operating costs have been reduced from over $32 per barrel to below $20 per barrel of oil after accounting for the loss of certain oil processing credits that ceased with our purchase of an additional 16.67% working interest in September 2010. By having this central facility and permanent electrical power available, we are ensuring that our operating expenses are kept to a minimum.
Ball Property
The Ball #1-11 well was put on production in late October 2010. Our 3-D seismic indicates a reservoir approximately 37.5 acres in size with the potential for at least two development wells to be drilled in the future including one in the summer of 2011. Production from the Ball #1-11 well is being processed at the Dyer Creek production facility. We have a 41.67% working interest with a 34.69% net revenue interest at this property.
Dyer Creek Property
The Dyer Creek #67X-11 well was also put on production in late October 2010. This well is producing from the Vedder sand and is located to the north of the Bear reservoir on the same trapping fault. The Dyer Creek reservoir has the potential for at least one development well in the future. Production from the Dyer Creek #67X-11 well is also being processed at the Dyer Creek production facility. We have a 41.67% working interest with a 34.69% net revenue interest at this property.
Dyer Creek Processing and Storage Facility
The Dyer Creek Processing and Storage Facility serves the Dyer Creek and Ball properties and includes previously abandoned infrastructure that we have refurbished. We have completed the installation of electrical service to this location, thereby reducing operating costs by eliminating the use of rental equipment. Our oil processing costs at this facility should now decline significantly. The oil produced into this facility has similar API gravity to the oil at the Sunday production facility and the oil must also be heated to separate and remove water in preparation for sale.
Bull Run Prospect
This prospect is located in the southern portion of our acreage position. The drilling targets are the Etchegoin and Santa Margarita sands located between 800 and 1,200 feet deep. We plan to drill an exploratory well on this prospect during the summer of 2011. Based on wells drilled by previous operators and our recently reprocessed 3-D seismic data, we estimate that the Bull Run Prospect is approximately 280 acres in size with a gross reserve potential of 6 million barrels of oil. The Bull Run wells will require a pilot steam flood and additional production facilities. We have a 41.67% working interest in this prospect.
Glide-Kendall Prospect
This prospect is located in the southern portion of our acreage position. The drilling targets are the Olcese and Eocene sands between 1,000 and 2,000 feet deep. We plan to drill an exploratory well in the fall of 2011. We estimate that the Glide Kendall prospect is 200 acres in size with a gross reserve potential of 500,000 barrels of oil. We have a 41.67% working interest in this prospect.
Sherman Prospect
This prospect is located in the southern portion of our acreage position. The drilling targets are the Olcese and Etchegoin sands between 1,000 and 2,000 feet deep. We plan to drill an exploratory well in early 2012. We estimate that the Sherman Prospect is 100 acres in size with a gross reserve potential of 300,000 barrels of oil. We have a 41.67% working interest in this prospect.
Baker Prospect
This prospect is located in the northern portion of our acreage position approximately one mile south of our Sunday property. This drilling target is the Vedder sand which is approximately 2,000 feet deep. We plan to drill an exploratory well in early 2012. We estimate that the Baker prospect is 70 acres in size with a gross reserve potential of 200,000 barrels of oil. We have a 41.67% working interest in this prospect.
Breckenridge-Chimney Prospect
This prospect is located in the central portion of our acreage position. The drilling targets are the Vedder and Eocene sands between 2,000 and 2,500 feet deep. We plan to drill an exploratory well in 2012. We estimate that the Breckenridge-Chimney prospect is 60 acres in size with a gross reserve potential of 1.5 million barrels of oil. We have a 41.67% working interest in this prospect.
Tobias Prospect
This prospect is located in the central portion of our acreage position. The drilling targets are the Vedder and Eocene sands between 2,000 and 2,500 feet deep. We plan to drill an exploratory well in 2012. We estimate that the Tobias prospect is 60 acres in size with a gross reserve potential of 700,000 barrels of oil. We have a 41.67% working interest in this prospect.
We plan to spend approximately $1,800,000 in new capital investments within the East Slopes Project area in the current fiscal year.
Production, Revenue and LOE
Our net production volume, net revenue and net lease operating expenses (“LOE”) by property location for the three months and years ended February 28, 2010 and February 28, 2011 in Kern County, California is set forth in the table below. Due to certain oil processing credits that we received from December 2009 through August 2010, our overall production costs for the Sunday #1 well and all four Bear wells during that time period were significantly less than the overall production costs for the other Sunday wells and the Black #1 well. These oil processing credits ended September 1, 2010 with our acquisition of a portion of a third party’s working interest in this project. Initial LOE costs for the Ball and Dyer Creek locations were higher than average during the first four months of production because of the use of rental equipment to supply power to the wells and production facilities. Electrical power installation has now been completed for these wells and the associated production facility.
Reserves
All of our estimated proved reserves of 237,820 barrels of oil at March 1, 2011 were derived from engineering reports prepared by Lonquist & Co. LLC (“Lonquist”) of Austin and Houston, Texas in accordance with generally accepted petroleum engineering and evaluation principles and definitions and guidelines established by the SEC.
Lonquist is an independent petroleum engineering consulting firm registered in the State of Texas, and Tereasa Montemayor, a Senior Petroleum Engineer, is the technical person at Lonquist primarily responsible for evaluating the proved reserves covered by their report. Ms. Montemayor graduated from the University of Texas at Austin with a degree in Petroleum Engineering. She is a member in good standing of the Society of Petroleum Engineers and has over 23 years experience in evaluating oil and gas reserves. Ms. Montemayor has been employed by Lonquist for over four years, most recently as a reservoir engineer since 2009. The services provided by Lonquist are not audits of our reserves but instead consist of complete engineering evaluations of the respective properties. For more information about the evaluations performed by Lonquist, refer to the copy of their report filed as an exhibit to this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Our internal controls over the reserve reporting process are designed to result in accurate and reliable estimates in compliance with applicable regulations and guidance. Internal reserve preparation for the Company is performed by Robert Martin, the Senior Vice-President - Exploration. Mr. Martin is a 1977 graduate of McGill University in Montreal, Quebec, Canada with an Honors Bachelor of Science Degree in Geological Science and is a member, in good standing, of the Association of Professional Engineers Geologists and Geophysicists of Alberta (APEGGA) and entitled to the designation “Professional Geologist” in Alberta. Mr. Martin has over 30 years of experience in petroleum exploration and management.
Although we believe that the estimates of reserves prepared by Mr. Martin have been prepared in accordance with professional engineering standards consistent with SEC and FASB guidelines, we engage an independent petroleum engineering consultant to prepare an annual evaluation of our estimated proved reserves. We provide to Lonquist for their analysis all pertinent data needed to properly evaluate our reserves. Mr. Martin consults regularly with Lonquist during the reserve estimation process to review properties, assumptions, and any new data available. Additionally, the Company’s senior management reviewed and approved all Daybreak reserve report information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Under current SEC standards, proved reserves are those quantities of oil and natural gas, which, by analysis of geoscience and engineering data, can be estimated with reasonable certainty to be economically producible from a given date forward, from known reservoirs, and under existing economic conditions, operating methods, and government regulations. The term “reasonable certainty” implies a high degree of confidence that the quantities of oil and/or natural gas actually recovered will equal or exceed the estimate. Reasonable certainty can be established using techniques that have been proved effective by actual production from projects in the same reservoir or an analogous reservoir or by other evidence using reliable technology that establishes reasonable certainty. Reliable technology is a grouping of one or more technologies (including computational methods) that have been field tested and have demonstrated to provide reasonably certain results with consistency and repeatability in the formation being evaluated or in an analogous formation.
In order to establish reasonable certainty with respect to our estimated proved reserves, we employ technologies that have been demonstrated to yield results with consistency and repeatability. The technical data used in the estimation of our proved reserves include, but are not limited to, electrical logs, radioactivity logs, core analyses, geologic maps and available downhole and production data, seismic data and well test data. Generally, oil and gas reserves are estimated using, as appropriate, one or more of these available methods: production decline curve analysis, analogy to similar reservoirs or volumetric calculations. Reserves attributable to producing wells with sufficient production history are estimated using appropriate decline curves or other performance relationships. Reserves attributable to producing wells with limited production history and for undeveloped locations are estimated using performance from analogous wells in the surrounding area and technical data to assess the reservoir continuity. In some instances, particularly in connection with exploratory discoveries, analogous performance data is not available, requiring us to rely primarily on volumetric calculations to determine reserve quantities. Volumetric calculations are primarily based on data derived from geologic-based seismic interpretation, open-hole logs and completion flow data. When using production decline curve analysis or analogy to estimate proved reserves, we limit our estimates to the quantities of oil and gas derived through volumetric calculations.
The accuracy of any reserve estimate is a function of the quality of available geological, geophysical, engineering and economic data, the precision of the engineering and geological interpretation and judgment. The estimates of reserves and future cash flows are based on various assumptions and are inherently imprecise. Although we believe these estimates are reasonable, actual future production, cash flows, taxes, development expenditures, operating expenses and quantities of recoverable oil and natural gas reserves may vary substantially from these estimates. Also, the use of a 10% discount factor for reporting purposes may not necessarily represent the most appropriate discount factor, given actual interest rates and risks to which our business or the oil and natural gas industry in general are subject.
Our estimated quantities of proved oil reserves as of February 28, 2011 are set forth in the table below. All of our proved reserves are located in Kern County, California.
Changes in our estimated proved developed oil reserves for the year ended February 28, 2011 are set forth in the table below.
Extensions and discoveries. Extensions and discoveries for the year ended February 28, 2011 added 23,507 barrels of oil of proved reserves, replacing 180.7% of our fiscal year production. These additions resulted primarily from our development drilling program in the Bear Field and new discoveries in the Ball Field. Of the total reserve additions, proved developed reserves accounted for 100% of the extensions and discoveries.
Revisions. Net upward revisions of 21,549 barrels of oil resulted from new information derived by additional interpretation of existing 3-D seismic data.
Purchases of minerals-in-place. In September 2010, we acquired from a third party an additional 16.67% working interest in five producing oil wells in Kern County, California. This purchase resulted in a 18,146 barrel increase in our proved oil reserves.
The following table summarizes changes in our estimated proved undeveloped reserves for the year ended February 28, 2011.
We added 148,980 barrels of proved undeveloped oil reserves from extensions and discoveries in Kern County, California. We also converted 23,507 barrels of proved undeveloped reserves to proved developed reserves as of February 28, 2011. We have no amounts of proved undeveloped reserves that have remained undeveloped for a period greater than five years.
East Slopes North Project, Kern County, California. This acreage is located immediately north of our East Slopes Project area in Kern County, California. We have currently dropped plans to hold this acreage and conduct a seismic survey on this acreage while we concentrate on developing additional prospects in the East Slopes Project.
Tulare County, California. The Expanded AMI Project, also located in the San Joaquin Basin, is in Tulare County and is a separate project area from the East Slopes Project in Kern County. We have currently dropped plans to hold and develop this acreage while we concentrate on developing additional prospects in the East Slopes Project.
Alabama (East Gilbertown Field) - Discontinued Operations
Choctaw County. In December 2006, we acquired a working interest in an existing oilfield project, the East Gilbertown Field, which produces relatively heavy oil (approximately 18° API). During the year ended February 28, 2010 we made the decision to exit this project. On March 15, 2010, we finalized the sale to a third party of our 12.5% working interest in this field. For the year ended February 28, 2011, we did not receive any oil sales revenue from this project. In connection with the sale, the Company recognized a gain from sale of oil and gas properties for the year ended February 28, 2011 of $10,285 which is presented under “Discontinued Operations” in the Statement of Operations. This sale has allowed us to focus on projects that better meet our corporate goals and objectives.
Louisiana (Krotz Springs Field) - Past Operations
St. Landry Parish. The Krotz Springs Field is a gas play with production coming from a Cockfield Sands reservoir. When production commenced in May of 2007, the unitized field operator of the Krotz Springs Field became the operator of this well. During the year ended February 28, 2010, we withdrew from this project and effectively ended all further involvement in this project. In the year ended February 28, 2011 we received approximately $104,017 from the Field Operator as a one-time adjustment to gas sales revenue that occurred from May 2007 through December 2009. This revenue is included in the “Oil and Gas Sales” caption on the Statement of Operations.
Summary Operating Data
The production volume shown in the following table is our net share of annual production in each project for the past three fiscal years. One barrel of oil equivalent (“BOE”) is roughly equivalent to 6,000 cubic feet or 6 Mcf of gas. Our involvement in the Alabama and Louisiana projects has ended and information presented on these discontinued projects is intended to only meet disclosure requirements. We do not have any fixed delivery commitment for oil or gas at any project.
The oil and gas sales revenue shown in the table below is our net share of annual revenue in each project for the past three fiscal years.
The table below shows the average sales price we received for oil and natural gas in aggregate from each project area on a BOE basis for the past three fiscal years.
The table below shows the average cost of production for the past three fiscal years on a BOE basis.
The table below shows the developed and undeveloped oil and gas lease acreage held by us as of February 28, 2011. Undeveloped acres are on lease acreage that wells have not been drilled or completed to a point that would permit the production of commercial quantities of oil and gas. Gross acres are the total number of acres in which we have an interest. Net acres are the sum of our fractional interests owned in the gross acres.
The table below summarizes our productive oil and gas wells as of February 28, 2011. Productive wells are producing wells and wells capable of production. Gross wells are the total number of wells in which we have an interest. Net wells are the sum of our fractional interests owned in the gross wells.
Property Location
Gross
Net
Kern County, California
4.4
Total
4.4
The table below shows our exploratory and development well drilling activity for the past three fiscal years. We had no drilling activity in either of our Alabama or Louisiana projects during this time.
ITEM 3.