ITEM 2.
PROPERTIES (dollars in millions except per share, per ounce and per pound amounts)
Gold and Copper Processing Methods
Gold is extracted from naturally-oxidized ores by either heap leaching or milling, depending on the amount of gold contained in the ore, the amenability of the ore to treatment and related capital and operating costs. Higher grade oxide ores are generally processed through mills, where the ore is ground into a fine powder and mixed with water in slurry, which then passes through a carbon-in-leach circuit. Lower grade oxide ores are generally processed using heap leaching. Heap leaching consists of stacking crushed or run-of-mine ore on impermeable pads, where a weak cyanide solution is applied to the surface of the heap to dissolve the gold. In both cases, the gold-bearing solution is then collected and pumped to process facilities to remove the gold by collection on carbon or by zinc precipitation.
Gold contained in ores that are not naturally oxidized can be directly milled if the gold is amenable to cyanidation, generally known as free milling sulfide ores. Ores that are not amenable to cyanidation, known as refractory ores, require more costly and complex processing techniques than oxide or free milling ore. Higher-grade refractory ores are processed through either roasters or autoclaves. Roasters heat finely ground ore to a high temperature, burn off the carbon and oxidize the sulfide minerals that prevent efficient leaching. Autoclaves use heat, oxygen and pressure to oxidize sulfide ores.
Some sulfide ores may be processed through a flotation plant or by bio-milling. In flotation, ore is finely ground, turned into slurry, then placed in a tank known as a flotation cell. Chemicals are added to the slurry causing the gold-containing sulfides to float attached to air bubbles to the top of the tank. The sulfides are removed from the cell and converted into a concentrate that can then be processed in an autoclave or roaster to recover the gold. Bio-milling incorporates patented technology that involves inoculation of suitable crushed ore on a leach pad with naturally occurring bacteria strains, which oxidize the sulfides over a period of time. The ore is then processed through an oxide mill.
At Batu Hijau, ore containing copper and gold is crushed to a coarse size at the mine and then transported from the mine via conveyor to a concentrator, where it is finely ground and then treated by successive stages of flotation, resulting in a concentrate containing approximately 30% copper. The concentrate is dewatered and stored for loading onto ships for transport to smelters.
Production Properties
Set forth below is a description of Newmont’s significant production properties. Operating statistics for each operation are presented in a table in the next section of Item 2.
Nevada
We have been mining gold in Nevada since 1965. Nevada operations include Carlin, located west of the city of Elko on the geologic feature known as the Carlin Trend, the Twin Creeks mine, located approximately 15 miles north of Golconda, and the Midas mine near the town of the same name. We also participate in the Turquoise Ridge joint venture with a subsidiary of Barrick Gold Corp. (“Barrick”), which utilizes mill capacity at Twin Creeks. The Phoenix mine, located 10 miles south of Battle Mountain, commenced commercial production in the fourth quarter of 2006. The Leeville underground mine, located on the Carlin Trend northwest of the Carlin East underground mine, also commenced commercial production in the fourth quarter of 2006.
Gold sales from Nevada totaled approximately 2.2 million ounces for 2008 with ore mined from nine open pit and five underground mines. At year-end 2008, we reported 28.1 million equity ounces of gold reserves in Nevada, with 81% of those ounces in open pit mines and 19% in underground mines.
The Nevada operations produce gold from a variety of ore types requiring different processing techniques depending on economic and metallurgical characteristics. To ensure the best use of processing capacity, we use a linear programming model to guide the flow of both mining sequence selection and routing of ore streams to various plants. Refractory ores, which require more complex, higher cost processing methods, generated 72% of Nevada’s gold production in 2008, compared with 75% in 2007, and 72% in 2006. With respect to remaining reserves, we estimate that approximately 81% are refractory ores and 19% are oxide ores. Higher-grade oxide ores are processed by conventional milling and cyanide leaching at Carlin (Mill 5) and Twin Creeks (Juniper). Lower-grade material with suitable cyanide solubility is treated on heap leach pads at Carlin and Twin Creeks. Higher-grade refractory ores are processed through either a roaster at Carlin (Mill 6) or autoclaves at Twin Creeks (Sage). Lower-grade refractory ores are processed at Carlin by either bio-oxidation/flotation or direct flotation at Mill 5. Ore from the Midas mine is processed by conventional milling and Merrill-Crowe zinc precipitation. Activated carbon from the various leaching circuits is treated to produce gold ore at the Carlin or Twin Creeks refineries. Zinc precipitate at Midas is refined on-site.
We own, or control through long-term mining leases and unpatented mining claims, all of the minerals and surface area within the boundaries of the present Nevada mining operations (except for the Turquoise Ridge joint venture described below). The long-term leases extend for at least the anticipated mine life of those deposits. With respect to a significant portion of the Gold Quarry mine at Carlin, we own a 10% undivided interest in the mineral rights and lease the remaining 90%, on which we pay a royalty equivalent to 18% of the mineral production. We wholly-own or control the remainder of the Gold Quarry mineral rights, in some cases subject to additional royalties. With respect to certain smaller deposits in Nevada, we are obligated to pay royalties on production to third parties that vary from 1% to 8% of production.
We have a 25% interest in a joint venture with Barrick to operate the Turquoise Ridge mine. Newmont has an agreement to provide up to 2,000 tons per day of milling capacity at Twin Creeks to the joint venture. Barrick is the operator of the joint venture. Gold sales of 50,065 ounces in 2008, 62,844 ounces in 2007 and 58,300 ounces in 2006 were attributable to Newmont, based on our 25% ownership interest.
We have ore sale agreements with Barrick and Yukon-Nevada Gold Corp. (“Yukon-Nevada”) to process the Company’s ore. We recognized attributable gold sales, net of treatment charges, of 8,012 ounces in 2008, 58,624 ounces in 2007, and 99,500 ounces in 2006, pursuant to these
agreements. During 2008, Yukon-Nevada discontinued operations and it is unclear when they will resume.
We have sales and refining agreements with Gerald Metals, Peñoles, Johnson Matthey, Just Refiners and Glencore to process intermediate gold bearing product.
Yanacocha, Peru
The properties of Minera Yanacocha S.R.L. (“Yanacocha”) are located approximately 375 miles (604 kilometers) north of Lima and 30 miles (48 kilometers) north of the city of Cajamarca, in Peru. Yanacocha began production in 1993. We hold a 51.35% interest in Yanacocha with the remaining interests held by Compañia de Minas Buenaventura, S.A.A. (43.65%) and the International Finance Corporation (5%).
Yanacocha has mining rights with respect to a large land position consisting of concessions granted by the Peruvian government to Yanacocha and a related entity. These mining concessions provide for both the right to explore and exploit. However, Yanacocha must first obtain the respective exploration and exploitation permits, which are generally granted in due course. Yanacocha may retain mining concessions indefinitely by paying annual fees and, during exploitation, complying with production obligations or paying assessed fines. Mining concessions are freely assignable or transferable.
Yanacocha currently has three active open pit mines, Cerro Yanacocha, La Quinua and Chaquicocha. Reclamation and/or backfilling activities at Carachugo, San José and Maqui Maqui are currently underway. Yanacocha has four leach pads, three processing facilities, and a new mill, which achieved commercial production in the second quarter of 2008. Yanacocha’s gold sales for 2008 totaled 1.8 million ounces (0.9 million equity ounces). At year-end 2008, we reported 12.8 million equity ounces of gold reserves at Yanacocha, including 6.1 million equity ounces at Conga.The Yanacocha district contains the Conga deposit, for which we continue to evaluate the development plan for Conga.
Yanacocha, along with other mining companies in Peru, agreed with the central government in 2006 to contribute 3.75% of its net profits to fund social development projects for a period of up to five years, contingent upon metal prices remaining high.
Australia/New Zealand
In Australia, mineral exploration and mining titles are granted by the individual states or territories. Mineral titles may also be subject to native title legislation or, in the Northern Territory, to Aboriginal freehold title legislation that entitles indigenous persons to compensation calculated by reference to the gross value of production. In 1992, the High Court of Australia held that Aboriginal people who have maintained a continuing connection with their land according to their traditions and customs may hold certain rights in respect of the land (such rights commonly referred to as “native title”). Since the High Court’s decision, Australia has passed legislation providing for the protection of native title and established procedures for Aboriginal people to claim these rights. The fact that native title is claimed with respect to an area, however, does not necessarily mean that native title exists, and disputes may be resolved by the courts.
Generally, under native title legislation, all mining titles granted before January 1, 1994 are valid. Titles granted between January 1, 1994 and December 23, 1996, however, may be subject to invalidation if they were not obtained in compliance with applicable legislative procedures, though subsequent legislation has validated some of these titles. After December 23, 1996, mining titles over areas where native title is claimed to exist became subject to legislative processes that generally give native title claimants the “right to negotiate” with the title applicant for compensation and other conditions. Native title holders do not have a veto over the granting of mining titles, but if agreement cannot be reached, the matter can be referred to the National Native Title Tribunal for decision.
We do not expect that native title claims will have a material adverse effect on any of our operations in Australia. The High Court of Australia determined in an August 2002 decision, which refined and narrowed the scope of native title, that native title does not subsist in minerals in Western Australia and that the rights granted under a mining title would, to the extent inconsistent with asserted native title rights, operate to extinguish those native title rights. Generally, native title is only an issue for Newmont with respect to obtaining new mineral titles or moving from one form of title to another, for example, from an exploration title to a mining title. In these cases, the requirements for negotiation and the possibility of paying compensation may result in delay and increased costs for mining in the affected areas. Similarly, the process of conducting Aboriginal heritage surveys to identify and locate areas or sites of Aboriginal cultural significance can result in additional costs and delay in gaining access to land for exploration and mining-related activities.
In Australia, various ad valorem royalties are paid to state and territorial governments, typically based on a percentage of gross revenues and earnings.
Tanami. The Tanami operations (100% owned) include The Granites treatment plant and associated mining operations, which are located in the Northern Territory approximately 342 miles (550 kilometers) northwest of Alice Springs, adjacent to the Tanami highway, and the Dead Bullock Soak mining operations, approximately 25 miles (40 kilometers) west of The Granites. The Tanami operations have been wholly-owned since April 2003, when Newmont acquired the minority interests.
The Tanami operations are predominantly focused on the Callie underground mine at Dead Bullock Soak. Ore from the Tanami operations is processed through The Granites treatment plant. During 2008, the Tanami operations sold 364,900 ounces of gold. At year-end 2008, we reported 1.5 million equity ounces of gold reserves at Tanami.
Kalgoorlie. The Kalgoorlie operations comprise the Fimiston open pit (commonly referred to as the Super Pit) and Mt. Charlotte underground mine at Kalgoorlie-Boulder, 373 miles (600 kilometers) east of Perth. The mines are managed by Kalgoorlie Consolidated Gold Mines Pty Ltd for the joint venture owners, Newmont and Barrick, each of which holds a 50% interest. The Super Pit is one of Australia’s largest gold mines in terms of gold production and annual mining volume. During 2008, the Kalgoorlie operations sold 304,400 equity ounces of gold. At year-end 2008, we reported 4.4 million equity ounces of gold reserves at Kalgoorlie.
Jundee. The Jundee operation (100% owned) is situated approximately 435 miles (700 kilometers) northeast of Perth in Western Australia. We mined ore at Jundee solely from underground sources in 2008, with mill feed supplemented from oxide stockpiles for blending purposes. Jundee sold 376,900 ounces of gold in 2008. At year-end 2008, we reported 1.3 million equity ounces of gold reserves at Jundee.
Waihi. The Waihi operations (100% owned) are located within the town of Waihi, located approximately 68 miles (110 kilometers) southeast of Auckland, New Zealand and consist of the Favona underground deposit and the Martha open pit. The Waihi operation sold 141,000 ounces of gold in 2008. At year-end 2008, we reported 0.4 million equity ounces of gold reserves at Waihi.
Boddington. Boddington is a development project located 81 miles (130 kilometers) southeast of Perth in Western Australia. At December 31, 2008, Boddington was owned by Newmont (66.67%) and AngloGold Ashanti Limited (“AngloGold”) (33.33%). On January 27, 2009, the Company entered into a definitive sale and purchase agreement with AngloGold to acquire its 33.33% interest in the Boddington project. Upon expected completion of the acquisition, Newmont will own 100% of the project. Development of the Boddington project was approximately 89% complete as of December 31, 2008, with mill start-up expected in mid-2009. At year-end 2008, we reported 13.4 million equity ounces of gold reserves at Boddington.
Batu Hijau, Indonesia
The Batu Hijau mine is located on the island of Sumbawa, approximately 950 miles (1,529 kilometers) east of Jakarta. Batu Hijau is a large porphyry copper/gold deposit, which Newmont discovered in 1990. Development and construction activities began in 1997 and start-up occurred in late 1999. In 2008, copper sales were 289.7 million pounds (130.4 million equity pounds), while gold sales were 298,900 ounces (134,500 equity ounces). At year-end 2008, we reported 3,950 million equity pounds of copper reserves and 4.1 million equity ounces of gold reserves at Batu Hijau.
We own 45% of the Batu Hijau mine through the Nusa Tenggara Partnership (“NTP”) with an affiliate of Sumitomo Corporation of Japan. We have a 56.25% interest in NTP and the Sumitomo affiliate holds the remaining 43.75%. NTP in turn owns 80% of P.T. Newmont Nusa Tenggara (“PTNNT”), the Indonesian subsidiary that owns Batu Hijau. The remaining 20% interest in PTNNT is owned by P.T. Pukuafu Indah (“PTPI”), an unrelated Indonesian company. We are the operator of the Batu Hijau mine.
In Indonesia, rights are granted to foreign investors to explore for and to develop mineral resources within defined areas through Contracts of Work entered into with the Indonesian government. In 1986, PTNNT entered into a Contract of Work with the Indonesian government covering Batu Hijau, under which PTNNT was granted the exclusive right to explore in the contract area, construct any required facilities, extract and process the mineralized materials, and sell and export the minerals produced, subject to certain requirements including Indonesian government approvals and payment of royalties to the government. Under the Contract of Work, PTNNT has the right to continue operating the project for 30 years from operational start-up, or longer if approved by the Indonesian government.
Under the Contract of Work, beginning in 2006 and continuing through 2010, a portion of PTNNT’s shares must be offered for sale, first, to the Indonesian government or, second, to Indonesian nationals, equal to the difference between the following percentages and the percentage of shares already owned by the Indonesian government or Indonesian nationals (if such number is positive): 23% by March 31, 2006; 30% by March 31, 2007; 37% by March 31, 2008; 44% by March 31, 2009; and 51% by March 31, 2010. The price at which such interest must be offered for sale to the Indonesian parties is the highest of the then-current replacement cost, the price at which shares would be accepted for listing on the Indonesian Stock Exchange, or the fair market value of such interest as a going concern, as agreed with the Indonesian government. Pursuant to this provision, it is possible that the ownership interest of NTP in PTNNT could be reduced to 49%.
PTPI has owned and continues to own a 20% interest in PTNNT, and therefore NTP (the Newmont-Sumitomo partnership) was required to offer a 3% interest in PTNNT for sale in 2006 and an additional 7% interest in each of 2007 and 2008. In accordance with the Contract of Work, an offer to sell a 3% interest was made to the Indonesian government in 2006 and an offer for an additional 7% interest was made in each of 2007 and 2008. While the central government declined to participate in the 2006 and 2007 offers, local governments in the area in which the Batu Hijau mine is located have expressed interest in acquiring shares, as have various Indonesian companies and nationals. In January 2008, NTP agreed to sell, under a carried interest arrangement, 2% of PTNNT’s shares to Kabupaten Sumbawa, one of the local governments, subject to satisfaction of closing conditions. The Indonesian government has subsequently stated that it will not approve the transfer of shares under this agreement. On February 11, 2008, PTNNT received notification from the Department of Energy and Mineral Resources (“DEMR”) alleging that PTNNT is in breach of its divestiture requirements under the Contract of Work and threatening to issue a notice to terminate the Contract of Work if PTNNT did not agree to divest the 2006 and 2007 shares, in accordance with the direction of the DEMR, by February 22, 2008, which date was extended to March 3, 2008. A second Notice of Default was received relating to the alleged failure to divest the 2008 shares as well. On March 3, 2008, the Indonesian government filed for international arbitration, as did PTNNT, as provided under the Contract of Work. In the arbitration proceeding, PTNNT seeks a declaration that the Indonesian government is not entitled to terminate the Contract of Work and additional declarations pertaining to
the procedures for divesting the shares. For its part, the Indonesian government seeks declarations that PTNNT is in default of its divestiture obligations, that the Government may terminate the Contract of Work, and that PTNNT must cause shares subject to divestiture to be sold to certain local governments. An international arbitration panel was appointed and an arbitration hearing was held in Jakarta in December 2008. We anticipate a ruling will be issued in the first half of 2009. Newmont and Sumitomo believe there is no basis under the Contract of Work for the notifications and no grounds for terminating the Contract of Work, and PTNNT is vigorously defending the matter.
In 1997, to enable development of the Batu Hijau project, PTNNT secured an aggregate $1,000 in financing from the United States Export-Import Bank, the Japan Bank for International Cooperation (formerly the Japan Export-Import Bank), and Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (the German Export-Import Bank) (collectively, the “Senior Lenders”). The Senior Lenders required PTNNT’s shareholders to pledge 100% of the shares of PTNNT as security for repayment of the loans and interest. As part of that process, on October 30, 1997, the Minister of Energy and Mineral Resources approved the share pledge arrangements.
Subsequent to an additional 7% interest in PTNNT being offered by NTP for sale on March 28, 2008 (as required under the Contract of Work), the Director General of Mineral, Coal and Geothermal Resources at DEMR claimed that PTNNT breached its obligations under the Contract of Work by allowing shares to be offered for sale that are pledged to the Senior Lenders as security for the repayment of the senior debt. In the letter, the Director General claimed that NTP would be in default under the Contract of Work if the shares of PTNNT offered for sale in March 2008, together with the shares offered in 2006 and 2007, were not in the possession of “Indonesian government and/or government owned entities,” free of any such senior pledge, by July 13, 2008. Consequently, on July 10, 2008, PTNNT filed a notice to commence an additional international arbitration proceeding, as provided for under the Contract of Work, to resolve the claim that PTNNT breached its obligations under the Contract of Work by allowing shares to be offered that are subject to pledge obligations to the Senior Lenders. This pledge of shares issue has since been incorporated into, and will be resolved as part of the initial arbitration proceeding.
In addition, PTNNT has been in discussions to extend the forest use permit (called a “Pinjam Pakai”) for over three years. In 2005, Indonesian governmental authorities reviewed the contractual requirements for extension of the Pinjam Pakai and determined that PTNNT met those requirements. This permit is a key requirement to continue to operate Batu Hijau efficiently, in addition to the ultimate life of the mine and recoverability of reserves. However, the permit extension has not been received as of the date of this Annual Report. The resulting delay has adversely impacted Batu Hijau, and may adversely impact future operating and financial results, including deferment or cancellation of future mine development and operations.
Africa
Ahafo. The Ahafo operation (100% owned) is located in the Brong-Ahafo Region of Ghana, approximately 180 miles (290 kilometers) northwest of Accra. Ahafo poured its first gold on July 18, 2006 and commenced commercial production in August 2006. Ahafo sold 520,800 ounces of gold in 2008.
We currently operate three open pits at Ahafo with reserves contained in 17 pits. The process plant consists of a conventional mill and carbon-in-leach circuit. Ahafo reserves as of December 31, 2008, were 9.3 million equity ounces.
In December 2003, Ghana’s Parliament unanimously ratified an Investment Agreement between Newmont and the Government of Ghana. The Agreement establishes a fixed fiscal and legal regime, including fixed royalty and tax rates, for the life of any Newmont project in Ghana. Under the Agreement, we will pay corporate income tax at the Ghana statutory tax rate (presently 25% but not to exceed 32.5%) and fixed gross royalties on gold production of 3.0% (3.6% for any production from forest reserve areas). The Government of Ghana is also entitled to receive 10% of a project’s net cash flow after we have recouped our investment and may acquire up to 20% of a project’s equity at
fair market value on or after the 15th anniversary of such project’s commencement of production. The Investment Agreement also contains commitments with respect to job training for local Ghanaians, community development, purchasing of local goods and services and environmental protection.
Akyem. We have one development project in Ghana, currently the subject of further optimization studies. The Akyem project (100% owned) is located approximately 80 miles (125 kilometers) northwest of Accra. We continue to evaluate the development plan for Akyem.
Other Operations
Bolivia. The Kori Kollo open pit mine is on a high plain in northwestern Bolivia near Oruro, on government mining concessions issued to a Bolivian corporation, Empresa Minera Inti Raymi S.A. (“Inti Raymi”), in which we have an 88% interest. The remaining 12% is owned by Mrs. Beatriz Rocabado. Inti Raymi owns and operates the mine. The mill was closed in October 2003 and production continued from residual leaching. In 2005, additional material from the stockpiles and Lla Llagua pit were placed on the existing leach pad and ore from the Kori Chaca pit was processed on a new leach pad. In 2008, Inti Raymi sold 75,300 equity ounces of gold. At year-end 2008, we reported 0.2 million equity ounces of gold reserves at Inti Raymi.
Mexico. We have a 44% interest in La Herradura, which is located in Mexico’s Sonora desert. La Herradura is operated by Fresnillo PLC (which owns the remaining 56% interest) and comprises an open pit operation with run-of-mine heap leach processing. La Herradura sold 95,200 equity ounces of gold in 2008. At year-end 2008, we reported 1.9 million equity ounces of gold reserves at La Herradura.
Other Property
Hope Bay. With the successful completion of the acquisition of Miramar Mining Corporation in March 2008, we now own 100% of the Hope Bay project, a large undeveloped gold project in the Nunavut Territory of Canada. The acquisition and development of the Hope Bay project is consistent with the Company’s strategic focus on generating value through exploration and project development and was acquired with the intention of adding higher grade ore reserves and developing a new core gold mining district in a AAA-rated country.
Operating Statistics
The following tables detail operating statistics related to gold production, sales and production costs.
(1)
Incremental start-up includes the removal and production of de minimis saleable materials during development and is recorded as Other income, net of incremental mining and processing costs.
The following table details operating statistics related to Batu Hijau copper production, sales and production costs.
Proven and Probable Equity Reserves
We had proven and probable gold reserves of 85.0 million equity ounces as of December 31, 2008.
For 2008, reserves were calculated at a $725, A$850 or NZ$1,000 per ounce gold price assumption. Our 2008 reserves would decline by approximately 10% (8.2 million ounces), if calculated at a $675 per ounce gold price. An increase in the gold price to $775 per ounce would increase reserves by approximately 4% (3.3 million ounces), all other assumptions remaining constant. For 2007, reserves were calculated at a $575, A$750 or NZ$850 per ounce gold price assumption.
As of December 31, 2008, our proven and probable gold reserves in Nevada were 28.1 million equity ounces. Outside of Nevada, year-end proven and probable gold reserves were 56.9 million equity ounces, including 20.9 million equity ounces in Australia/New Zealand, 17.0 million equity ounces in Ghana, 12.8 million equity ounces in Peru, 4.1 million equity ounces in Indonesia and 2.1 million equity ounces at Other Operations.
Our proven and probable copper reserves as of December 31, 2008 were 7,780 million equity pounds. For 2008, reserves were calculated at a price of $2.00 or A$2.40 per pound assumption. For 2007, reserves were calculated at a price of $1.75 or A$2.00 per pound assumption.
Under our current mining plans, all of our reserves are located on fee property or mining claims or will be depleted during the terms of existing mining licenses or concessions, or where applicable, any assured renewal or extension periods for such licenses or concessions.
Proven and probable equity reserves are based on extensive drilling, sampling, mine modeling and metallurgical testing from which we determined economic feasibility. The price sensitivity of reserves depends upon several factors including grade, metallurgical recovery, operating cost, waste-to-ore ratio and ore type. Metallurgical recovery rates vary depending on the metallurgical properties of each deposit and the production process used. The reserve tables below list the average metallurgical recovery rate for each deposit, which takes into account the several different processing methods that we use. The cut-off grade, or lowest grade of mineralized material considered economic to process, varies with material type, metallurgical recoveries and operating costs.
The proven and probable equity reserve figures presented herein are estimates based on information available at the time of calculation. No assurance can be given that the indicated levels of recovery of gold and copper will be realized. Ounces of gold or pounds of copper included in the proven and probable reserves are calculated without regard to any losses during metallurgical treatment. Reserve estimates may require revision based on actual production. Market fluctuations in the price of gold and copper, as well as increased production costs or reduced metallurgical recovery
rates, could render certain proven and probable reserves containing relatively lower grades of mineralization uneconomic to exploit and might result in a reduction of reserves.
We publish reserves annually, and we will recalculate reserves as of December 31, 2009, taking into account metal prices, changes, if any, in future production and capital costs, divestments and depletion as well as any acquisitions and additions to reserves during 2009.
The following tables detail gold proven and probable equity reserves(1)
reflecting only those reserves owned by Newmont as of December 31, 2008 and 2007:
(1)
The term “reserve” means that part of a mineral deposit that can be economically and legally extracted or produced at the time of the reserve determination.
The term “economically,” as used in the definition of reserve, means that profitable extraction or production has been established or analytically demonstrated in a full feasibility study to be viable and justifiable under reasonable investment and market assumptions.
The term “legally,” as used in the definition of reserve, does not imply that all permits needed for mining and processing have been obtained or that other legal issues have been completely resolved. However, for a reserve to exist, Newmont must have a justifiable expectation, based on
applicable laws and regulations, that issuance of permits or resolution of legal issues necessary for mining and processing at a particular deposit will be accomplished in the ordinary course and in a timeframe consistent with Newmont’s current mine plans.
The term “proven reserves” means reserves for which (a) quantity is computed from dimensions revealed in outcrops, trenches, workings or drill holes; (b) grade and/or quality are computed from the results of detailed sampling; and (c) the sites for inspection, sampling and measurements are spaced so closely and the geologic character is sufficiently defined that size, shape, depth and mineral content of reserves are well established.
The term “probable reserves” means reserves for which quantity and grade are computed from information similar to that used for proven reserves, but the sites for sampling are farther apart or are otherwise less adequately spaced. The degree of assurance, although lower than that for proven reserves, is high enough to assume continuity between points of observation.
References to “equity ounces” or “equity pounds” mean that portion of gold or copper produced, sold or included in proven and probable reserves that is attributable to our ownership or economic interest.
Proven and probable equity reserves were calculated using different cut-off grades. The term “cut-off grade” means the lowest grade of mineralized material considered economic to process. Cut-off grades vary between deposits depending upon prevailing economic conditions, mineability of the deposit, by-products, amenability of the ore to gold or copper extraction, and type of milling or leaching facilities available.
2008 reserves were calculated at a $725, A$850 or NZ$1,000 per ounce gold price unless otherwise noted.
2007 reserves were calculated at a $575, A$750 or NZ$850 per ounce gold price unless otherwise noted.
(2)
Tonnages include allowances for losses resulting from mining methods. Tonnages are rounded to the nearest 100,000.
(3)
Ounces or pounds are estimates of metal contained in ore tonnages and do not include allowances for processing losses. Metallurgical recovery rates represent the estimated amount of metal to be recovered through metallurgical extraction processes. Ounces are rounded to the nearest 10,000.
(4)
Cut-off grades utilized in Nevada 2008 reserves were as follows: oxide leach material not less than 0.006 ounce per ton; oxide mill material not less than 0.025 ounce per ton; refractory leach material not less than 0.025 ounce per ton; and refractory mill material not less than 0.052 ounce per ton.
(5)
Includes undeveloped reserves at Castle Reef and Emigrant deposits for combined total undeveloped reserves of 1.4 million ounces.
(6)
Also contains reserves of 5.9 million ounces of silver with a metallurgical recovery of 88%.
(7)
Gold cut-off grade varies with level of copper credits.
(8)
Reserve estimates provided by Barrick, the operator of the Turquoise Ridge joint venture.
(9)
In-process material is the material on leach pads at the end of the year from which gold remains to be recovered. In-process material reserves are reported separately where tonnage or ounces are greater than 5% of the total site-reported reserves and ounces are greater than 100,000.
(10)
Stockpiles are comprised primarily of material that has been set aside to allow processing of higher grade material in the mills. Stockpiles increase or decrease depending on current mine plans. Stockpile reserves are reported separately where tonnage or ounces are greater than 5% of the total site-reported reserves and ounces are greater than 100,000.
(11)
Deposit is currently undeveloped. Gold cut-off grade varies with level of copper credits.
(12)
Reserves include the currently undeveloped deposit at Corimayo, which contains reserves of 1.2 million equity ounces. Cut-off grades utilized in 2008 reserves were as follows: oxide leach material not less than 0.004 ounce per ton; and oxide mill material not less than 0.030 ounce per ton.
(13)
Deposit is currently being developed. Mill startup is expected in mid-2009. Gold cut-off grade varies with level of copper credits. In March 2009, we expect to close the acquisition transaction for the additional 33.33% interest in Boddington from AngloGold Ashanti Ltd., which would increase Newmont’s share to 100% and add approximately 6.7 million ounces to our equity reserves.
(14)
Cut-off grade utilized in 2008 reserves not less than 0.020 ounce per ton.
(15)
Cut-off grade utilized in 2008 reserves not less than 0.026 ounce per ton.
(16)
Cut-off grade utilized in 2008 reserves not less than 0.029 ounce per ton.
(17)
Cut-off grade utilized in 2008 reserves not less than 0.023 ounce per ton.
(18)
Gold cut-off grade varies with level of copper credits.
(19)
Includes undeveloped reserves at Amoma, Yamfo South, Yamfo Central, Techire West, Subenso South, Subenso North, Yamfo Northeast and Susuan totaling 3.7 million ounces. Cut-off grade utilized in 2008 reserves not less than 0.018 ounce per ton.
(20)
Deposit is undeveloped. Cut-off grade utilized in 2008 reserves not less than 0.012 ounce per ton.
(21)
Cut-off grade utilized in 2008 reserves not less than 0.004 ounce per ton.
(22)
Cut-off grade utilized in 2008 reserves not less than 0.009 ounce per ton.
The following tables detail copper proven and probable equity reserves(1)
reflecting only those reserves owned by Newmont as of December 31, 2008 and 2007:
(1)
See footnote (1) to the Gold Proven and Probable Equity Reserves tables above. Copper reserves for 2008 were calculated at a $2.00 or A$2.40 per pound copper price. Copper reserves for 2007 were calculated at a $1.75 or A$2.00 per pound copper price.
(2)
See footnote (2) to the Gold Proven and Probable Equity Reserves tables above. Tonnages are rounded to nearest 100,000.
(3)
See footnote (3) to the Gold Proven and Probable Equity Reserves tables above. Pounds are rounded to the nearest 10 million.
(4)
Copper cut-off grade varies with level of gold credits.
(5)
Stockpiles are comprised primarily of material that has been set aside to allow processing of higher grade material in the mills. Stockpiles increase or decrease depending on current mine plans. Stockpiles are reported separately where tonnage or contained metal are greater than 5% of the total site reported reserves.
(6)
Deposit is currently being developed. Mill startup is expected in mid-2009. Copper cut-off grade varies with level of gold grade. In March 2009, we expect to close the acquisition transaction for the additional 33.33% interest in Boddington from AngloGold Ashanti Ltd., which would increase Newmont’s share to 100% and add approximately 640 million pounds to our equity reserves.
(7)
Deposit is undeveloped. Copper cut-off grade varies with level of gold grade.
(8)
Copper cut-off grade varies with level of gold grade.
The following table reconciles year-end 2008 and 2007 gold proven and probable equity reserves:
(1)
Reserves mined and processed in 2008.
(2)
Revisions and additions are due to reserve conversions, optimizations, model updates, metal price changes and updated operating costs and recoveries.
ITEM 3.