ITEM 2.PROPERTIES (dollars in millions, except per share, per ounce and per pound amounts)
Production and Development Properties
Newmont’s significant production and development properties are described below. Operating statistics for each region are presented in a table in the Operating Statistics section.
North America
The North America region maintains its headquarters in Elko, Nevada. The region operates four sites - Carlin, Phoenix, Twin Creeks and Cripple Creek & Victor.
In Nevada, mining taxes are assessed on up to 5% of net proceeds of a mine. Net proceeds are calculated as the excess of gross yield over direct costs. Gross yield is determined as the value received when minerals are sold, exchanged for anything of value or removed from the state. Direct costs generally include the costs to develop, extract, produce, transport and refine minerals.
Carlin, Nevada, USA. (100% owned) The Carlin property is located 25 miles west of Elko, Nevada off of Interstate 80 and can be accessed by paved highway. Newmont either owns the private fee land and unpatented mining claims or controls the land through long term mining leases, with regard to the minerals and surface area within the boundaries of the present operations. Properties held under long term mining leases expire at varying dates over the next 40 years. With respect to a portion of the Gold Quarry pit, we pay a royalty equivalent to 16.2% of the mineral production. With respect to various other Carlin deposits, we pay third party royalties that vary from 1% to 8% of production.
Carlin’s integrated mining operations consist of three open pits and four underground mines. The open pits include the Emigrant pit and the Gold Quarry pit in the South end of the Carlin Trend and the Silverstar pit at the North end of the Carlin Trend. The underground mines include Leeville, which is a shaft mine, along with Chukar, Pete Bajo and Exodus, which are portal mines. The majority of the underground ore as well as higher-grade surface refractory ores are processed through the roaster (Mill 6) which consists of a grinding circuit, roasting circuit and a conventional carbon-in leach circuit. Mill 6 processed approximately 3.5 million tons of ore in 2015. Higher-grade surface oxide ores are processed by conventional milling and cyanide leaching at Mill 5.
Additionally, Mill 5 operates as a flotation mill treating lower grade, non-carbonaceous, sulfidic refractory ore to produce a gold/pyrite concentrate. Mill 5 processed approximately 5 million tons of ore in 2015. Lower-grade surface material with suitable cyanide solubility is treated on one of four heap leach pads. Carlin’s available mining fleet consists of six shovels and fifty-four haul trucks which range from 150 to 250 tons. We have been mining gold at Carlin since 1965.
Carlin is a sediment-hosted disseminated gold deposit. Work has been completed to expand underground airflow at the Leeville mine to allow for increased mining rates and future mine expansion. Near-mine exploration and development of new reserves is ongoing.
Power is supplied by Wells Rural Electric Company (“WREC”) in the southern section of the property and in the northern section of the property power is partially supplied by a power plant Newmont built and placed in operations in 2008. Power generated is sold to NV Energy and then repurchased by the operations.
Carlin’s gross Property, plant and mine development at December 31, 2015 was $3,887. Carlin produced 886,000 ounces of gold in 2015, and at December 31, 2015, reported 16.8 million ounces of gold reserves.
Phoenix, Nevada, USA. The Phoenix property is comprised of the Phoenix operations and the Lone Tree operations, both of which are 100% owned. The Phoenix and Lone Tree properties are owned through fee property and unpatented mining claims.
Phoenix is an open pit operation, located approximately 10 miles south of Battle Mountain, Nevada and can be accessed by paved highway to a Newmont maintained dirt road. Phoenix was acquired through the Battle Mountain Gold merger and began operations in 2006.
Phoenix is a skarn-hosted polymetallic massive sulfide replacement deposit. The Phoenix mill produces a gravity gold concentrate and a copper/gold flotation concentrate and recovers additional gold from cyanide leaching of the flotation tails. The Phoenix surface mine’s available mining fleet consists of three shovels and sixteen 240 ton haul trucks. Process facilities include a flotation mill which processed approximately 11 million tons of ore in 2015, a carbon-in-leach plant, a copper leach pad and solvent extraction electrowinning (“SX/EW”) plant. The copper leach and SX/EW plant was constructed in 2013, which allows for the production of copper cathode. Near-mine exploration and development of new reserves is ongoing.
Lone Tree is an open pit operation, located approximately 20 miles northwest of Battle Mountain, Nevada and can be accessed by paved highway. Lone Tree was acquired through the Santa Fe merger and began operations in 1991. Mining was completed in 2007, with residual leaching and ongoing reclamation activities. Lone Tree’s available mining fleet consists of four haul trucks, which range from 150 tons to 190 tons, to rehandle leach material for residual leaching operations. The site also has an autoclave and flotation mill, which are currently on care and maintenance.
Power is partially supplied by a power plant Newmont built and placed in operations in 2008. Power generated is sold to NV Energy and then repurchased by the operations.
The Phoenix operations gross Property, plant and mine development at December 31, 2015 was $1,261. The Phoenix operations produced 205,000 ounces of gold and 46 million pounds of copper in 2015, and at December 31, 2015, reported 5.1 million ounces of gold reserves and 1,750 million pounds of copper reserves.
Twin Creeks, Nevada, USA. The Twin Creeks property is comprised of the Twin Creeks mine and the Turquoise Ridge Joint Venture.
Twin Creeks (100% owned) is an open pit operation, located approximately 15 miles north of Golconda, Nevada and can be accessed by paved highway to a Newmont maintained dirt road. The Twin Creeks mine is an open pit mine that began operations in 1987 and was acquired through the Santa Fe merger in 1997. The property is owned through fee property and unpatented mining claims.
Twin Creeks is a sediment-hosted disseminated gold deposit. Higher-grade oxide ores are processed by conventional milling and cyanide leaching at the Juniper mill. The autoclaves (Sage) process higher-grade refractory ores and lower-grade material with suitable cyanide solubility is treated on heap leach pads. Twin Creeks’ available mining fleet consists of three shovels and fourteen 240 ton haul trucks. The process facilities include an autoclave which processed approximately 3.7 million tons of ore in 2015, an oxide mill which processed 1.2 million tons of ore in 2015 and three leach pads. Near-mine exploration and development of new reserves is ongoing.
Power is partially supplied by a power plant Newmont built and placed in operations in 2008. Power generated is sold to NV Energy and then repurchased by the operations.
We have a 25% interest in a joint venture with a subsidiary of Barrick Gold Corporation (“Barrick”) in Turquoise Ridge. Turquoise Ridge Joint Venture is an underground gold mine located in Golconda, Nevada. Operations at Turquoise Ridge consist of an underground mine. We report our interest in Turquoise Ridge on a pro rata basis. Turquoise Ridge is a refractory ore deposit which utilizes the Twin Creeks autoclave for processing. We have an agreement to provide up to 2,000 tons per day of milling capacity at Twin Creeks to the joint venture. Barrick is the operator of the joint venture. In 2015, gold production of 68,000 ounces was attributable to Newmont from the joint venture.
The Twin Creeks operations gross Property, plant and mine development at December 31, 2015 was $1,462. The Twin Creeks operation produced 471,000 ounces of gold in 2015, and at December 31, 2015, reported 5.4 million ounces of attributable gold reserves.
Long Canyon, Nevada, USA. (100% owned) Long Canyon is located approximately 75 miles east of Elko, Nevada off of Interstate 80 and can be accessed by paved highway. The Long Canyon Project was acquired in 2011 through the purchase of Fronteer Gold Inc. Newmont owns the private fee land and unpatented mining claims, with regard to all of the minerals and surface area within the boundaries of the present operations.
Long Canyon is a sediment-hosted disseminated gold deposit which will utilize heap leaching to recover the minerals. Construction is underway to construct an open pit operating mine with leach facilities. Near-mine exploration and development of new reserves is ongoing.
Power is supplied by WREC.
Long Canyon’s gross Property, plant and mine development at December 31, 2015 was $1,015. At December 31, 2015, Long Canyon reported 1.2 million ounces of gold reserves.
Cripple Creek & Victor, Colorado, USA. (100% owned) Cripple Creek &Victor (“CC&V”) is an open pit operation, located next to the town of Victor, Colorado and can be accessed by paved highway. On August 3, 2015, Newmont acquired CC&V through a purchase from AngloGold Ashanti Limited. The vast majority of the property is controlled through fee patented mining claims as well as long term mining leases. Royalties on various sections of the deposit vary up to 5% of production.
CC&V is an epithermal alkalic deposit which utilizes heap leaching to recover the minerals. A newly constructed mill is used to recover higher grade ore. CC&V’s available mining fleet consists of three shovels and thirty-one haul trucks with capacity ranges from 85 tons to 240 tons. The process facilities include a newly built mill, a leach pad currently under construction and one operating leach pad. Construction of the mill was completed in early 2015 while work continues to complete the construction of the new leach pad and second recovery plant. Near-mine exploration and development of new reserves is ongoing.
Power is supplied by Black Hills Energy.
CC&V’s gross Property, plant and mine development at December 31, 2015 was $740. CC&V produced 81,000 ounces of gold from August through December 2015, and at December 31, 2015, CC&V reported 3.8 million ounces of gold reserves.
South America
The properties of Minera Yanacocha S.R.L. (“MYSRL”) include operations at Yanacocha and the Conga Project. We hold a 51.35% interest in MYSRL with the remaining interests held by Compañia de Minas Buenaventura, S.A.A. (“Buenaventura”) (43.65%) and the International Finance Corporation (5%).
MYSRL and a related entity have mining concessions granted by the Peruvian mining authority. Mining concessions grant MYSRL an exclusive and irrevocable right to carry out exploration and exploitation activities within a specified area. MYSRL must obtain the corresponding exploration and exploitation permits as well as the rights over the surface lands. General obligations to keep the concessions in good standing include the payment of an annual license fee and complying with a minimum annual production obligation. For mining concessions granted prior to 2008, if the production obligations are not met by the end of 2028, the mining concessions will expire. For mining concessions granted in 2008 or thereafter, if minimum production is not attained by the 20th year
from the date of grant, the mining concession will expire. Beginning October 1, 2011, mining companies are subject to a revised royalty and special mining tax, dependent on whether or not a stabilization agreement is in effect. The revised royalty and special mining taxes are based on a sliding scale, between 1% and 12%.
Yanacocha, Peru. Yanacocha is located approximately 375 miles (604 kilometers) north of Lima and 30 miles (48 kilometers) north of the city of Cajamarca and is primarily accessible by paved and dirt roads. Yanacocha began production in 1993 at Carachugo. The Yanacocha property consists of the following open-pit mines: Chaquicocha, Maqui Maqui, Cerro Yanacocha, La Quinua Complex (La Quinua, El Tapado, Tapado Oeste), Cerro Negro Este, Western Oxide pits (La Quinua Sur and Cerro Negro Oeste), Eastern Oxide pits (Marleny and Carachugo Alto). Yanacocha has four leach pads (Carachugo, Maqui Maqui, Cerro Yanacocha and La Quinua) and four processing facilities (Pampa Larga, Yanacocha Norte, La Quinua and the Yanacocha Gold Mill).
The Carachugo complex mined material from the Chaquicocha Sur pit. The Carachugo open-pit mine ceased mining operations in 2004, although the leach pad remains in operation. Marleny started mining operations in May 2013 and ceased operations in April 2014. There is now a plan to restart mining at Marleny in April 2016, deepening the pit, which is scheduled to be completed by the middle of 2016. The ore from the Chaquicocha pit was primarily placed on the Carachugo leach pad or in stockpiles for further processing.
Mining operations at Maqui Maqui began in October 1994 and ceased in September 2000. The Maqui Maqui East expansion commenced operations in 2010 and is expected to continue until the first quarter of 2016. Gold recovery from the leach pad at Maqui Maqui continues. The ore from Maqui Maqui was primarily placed on the Maqui Maqui leach pad or in stockpiles for further processing.
Cerro Yanacocha began operations in 1997. Cerro Yanacocha has had limited mining operations in recent years and expects to increase mining operations in 2016. The ore from Cerro Yanacocha was placed on the Yanacocha leach pad or in stockpiles for further processing.
The La Quinua complex is currently mining material from the La Quinua Sur, Tapado Oeste, Tapado Oeste Layback and Cerro Negro Oeste pits. The La Quinua complex operations began in 2001. La Quinua Sur commenced mining activities in May 2014 and is scheduled to finish in 2019. Tapado Oeste commenced mining activities in 2001 and is expected to complete operations by the middle of 2016. Tapado Oeste Layback commenced mining activities during the first quarter of 2015, and is currently focused on stripping areas and mining is expected to be completed in 2019. Mining activities commenced in Cerro Negro Oeste in 2010 and are scheduled to finish in 2016. The ore from these pits is primarily placed on the La Quinua leach pad or in stockpiles for further processing.
Leach pads are located at Carachugo (372 million tonne capacity), Maqui Maqui (64 million tonne capacity), Cerro Yanacocha (426 million tonne capacity) and La Quinua (581 million tonne capacity, including the Western Oxides). Each of these leach pads includes at least two leach solution storage ponds and storm water ponds located down gradient from each leach pad. The Cerro Yanacocha site has two additional solution ponds for the segregation of solution generated from the treatment of transition ores. A raw water pond is used both for storm containment and to store excess solution during the wet season.
Yanacocha has four processing facilities: Pampa Larga, Yanacocha Norte, La Quinua and the Yanacocha Gold Mill. The processing facilities can be used to process gold-bearing solutions from any of the leach pads through a network of solution pumping facilities located adjacent to the solution storage ponds or, in the case of the Yanacocha Gold Mill, to process high-grade gold ore to produce a gold-bearing solution for treatment at the La Quinua processing plant. The Yanacocha Gold Mill commenced operations in March 2008, and it processes between 5.5 and 6.0 million tonnes per year.
Yanacocha’s mining activities encompass 507,050 acres (205,196 hectares) covered by 327 mining concessions. Of these 507,050 acres (205,196 hectares), another entity by the name of S.M.R.L. Chaupiloma Dos de Cajamarca holds the mining rights related to 218,604 acres (88,466 hectares), covered by 137 mining concessions. MYSRL holds the mining rights related to 116,730 hectares covered by 190 concessions. Chaupiloma has assigned these mining concessions to Yanacocha pursuant to several assignments of mining rights, each with an initial term of 20 years and one agreement with extension of 17 years, which are renewable at Yanacocha’s request for an additional 17 and 20 year terms, respectively. Yanacocha has three processing concessions from the Ministry of Energy and Mines for its processing plants: Cerro Yanacocha (Yanacocha Gold Mill, Cerro Negro, La Quinua and Yanacocha), Yanacocha (Carachugo and Pampa Larga) and China Linda (non-metallic). The processing concessions have indefinite terms, subject to the payment of an annual fee based on nominal capacity for the processing plant.
The material mined is from an epithermal type deposit of high sulfidation hosted in volcanic rock formations. Gold is associated with iron-oxides and pyrite. Material that has suitable cyanide solubility is placed on leach pads whereas non-leachable material is
placed in stockpiles for processing through the Yanacocha Gold Mill. Solutions generated by the leach pad and the mill are further processed through the processing facilities. Mining and processing of oxide mineralization has been ongoing since the mine opened in 1993. Studies are underway to evaluate the potential for mining sulfide gold and copper mineralization. Near-mine exploration and development of new reserves is ongoing. The development of an underground exploration tunnel commenced in November 2015.
Power is supplied to the operation primarily by Duke Energy Company.
Yanacocha’s gross Property, plant and mine development at December 31, 2015 was $4,482. Yanacocha produced 918,000 ounces of gold (471,000 attributable ounces of gold) in 2015, and at December 31, 2015, reported 2.6 million attributable ounces of gold reserves.
Conga, Peru. The Conga Project is located approximately 16 miles (25 kilometers) northeast of Yanacocha, within close proximity of existing operations, and is accessible by paved and dirt roads. The project is planned to be an open pit mine. Newmont received Conga from CEDIMIN as part of the Minera Yanacocha unitization in 2001 and conducted comprehensive reviews of data and subsequent drilling campaigns through 2011.
Conga's mining activities would encompass 35,427 acres (14,337 hectares) covered by a mining concession called "Acumulacion Minas Conga." S.M.R.L. Chaupiloma Dos de Cajarma has assigned "Acumulacion Minas Conga" to MYSRL pursuant to assignment of mining, and renewal with a term of 20 years.
The Conga Project is a copper-gold porphyry deposit. Conga contains economic gold and copper mineralization associated with intense quartz veining felsic porphyries. Locally, magnetite-dominated skarns contain economic gold and copper mineralization and garnet dominated skarns are enriched in zinc, lead and silver. At Chailhuagon and Perol economic gold and copper mineralization is associated with stock works of quartz veinlets and copper sulfides, particularly chalcopyrite, bornite and digenite.
Following the approval of the Environmental Impact Assessment in 2010, the Project’s design and construction work began. As a result of a series of demonstrations staged in Cajamarca, at the request of the Central Government, in November 2011, the Company suspended all Conga Project construction activities. The results of the Peruvian Central Government initiated Environmental Impact Assessment (“EIA”) independent review were announced on April 20, 2012 and confirmed our initial EIA met Peruvian and International standards. The review made recommendations to provide additional water capacity and social funds, which we have largely accepted. We announced our decision to move the project forward on a “water first” approach on June 22, 2012. In the first half of 2014, a Conga Restart Study was completed to identify and test alternatives to advancing development of the project. Following this assessment, a new plan was developed to reduce spending to focus on only the most critical work - protecting people and assets, engaging with communities, and maintaining existing project infrastructure - while maintaining optionality. Newmont will not proceed with the full development of Conga without social acceptance, solid project economics and potentially another partner to help defray costs and risk; it is currently difficult to predict when or whether such events may occur. Under the current social and political environment, the Company does not anticipate being able to develop Conga for the foreseeable future. The continued delay and evaluation of other alternatives may result in a potential accounting impairment or further reclassification of Mineralized Material.
There is no exploration and/or development of new reserves as development of the project is on hold for the foreseeable future. See Item 1A, Risk Factors, above for a description of political risks related to the project’s development and the recent reclassification of previously declared reserves to Mineralized Material.
Merian, Suriname. The Merian Gold Project (“Merian”) is owned 75% by Surgold (100% indirectly owned by Newmont Mining corporation) and 25% by Staatsolie (a company wholly owned by the Republic of Suriname). Merian is located in East Suriname, approximately 40 miles (66 kilometers) south of the town of Moengo and 19 miles (30 kilometers) north of the Nassau Mountains, close to the French Guiana border. The site is accessible by paved road from Paramaribo to Moengo and a compacted laterite road maintained mainly by the Merian project crews. Construction began in August 2014, and is planned to be in commercial production in the fourth quarter of 2016. The project is planned to have two open pits and a process plant that will consist of conventional gold processing flowsheet with a carbon-in-leach circuit.
Surgold and Staatsolie have a Right of Exploitation for Merian as defined in a Mineral Agreement approved by the Surinamese National Assembly in November 2013 and signed by the parties in August 2014. The Right of Exploitation is for an area of 41,484 acres (16,788 hectares), for the period of twenty five years, recorded on November 7, 2014. Surgold is subject to a 6% net smelter return royalty to the Republic of Suriname. The government can choose to take metal in kind or receive cash.
All of the resource gold mineralization at Merian occurs within saprolite, saprock or fresh rock and is closely associated to quartz veining within siltstone and sandstone formations.
The Project has progressed to a 61% completion at the end of 2015. The project includes processing facilities with a capacity of 12 million tonnes per year reducing later to 8 million tonnes per year when the mill feed will be entirely from fresh rock. A power plant with initial installed capacity of 44.5MW will enable the operations to be self-sufficient in power generation. The mine will initially operate the Merian 2 open pit, currently being prepared for full production. In late 2018, the Maraba pit is scheduled to be added to the production stream. Maintenance facilities, camp facilities with a capacity of 1,200 workers, and various offices complete the project site. Near-mine exploration and development of new reserves is ongoing. All equipment is new and of proven technology and size.
Power for the property is self-generated using on-site heavy fuel oil driven generators.
Merian is currently included in Corporate and other in Note 4 of the Consolidated Financial Statements. Merian’s gross Property, plant and mine development at December 31, 2015 was $626. At December 31, 2015, Merian reported 3.8 million attributable ounces of gold reserves.
Asia Pacific
In Australia, mineral exploration and mining titles are granted by the individual states or territories. Mineral titles may also be subject to native title legislation or, in the Northern Territory, to Aboriginal freehold title legislation that entitles indigenous persons to compensation calculated by reference to the gross value of production and with Aboriginal Freehold Title indigenous people have a right of consent. In 1992, the High Court of Australia held that Aboriginal people who have maintained a continuing connection with their land according to their traditions and customs may hold certain rights in respect of the land (such rights commonly referred to as “native title”). Since the High Court’s decision, Australia has passed legislation providing for the protection of native title and established procedures for Aboriginal people to claim these rights. The fact that native title is claimed with respect to an area, however, does not necessarily mean that native title exists, and disputes may be resolved by the courts.
Generally, under native title legislation, all mining titles granted before January 1, 1994 are valid. Titles granted between January 1, 1994 and December 23, 1996, however, may be subject to invalidation if they were not obtained in compliance with applicable legislative procedures, though subsequent legislation has validated some of these titles. After December 23, 1996, mining titles over areas where native title is claimed to exist became subject to legislative processes that generally give native title claimants the “right to negotiate” with the title applicant for compensation and other conditions. Native title holders do not have a veto over the granting of mining titles, but if agreement cannot be reached, the matter can be referred to the National Native Title Tribunal for decision.
Native title claims are not expected to have a material adverse effect on any of our operations in Australia. The High Court of Australia determined in an August 2002 decision, which refined and narrowed the scope of native title, that native title does not subsist in minerals in Western Australia and that the rights granted under a mining title would, to the extent inconsistent with asserted native title rights, operate to extinguish those native title rights. Generally, native title is only an issue for Newmont with respect to obtaining new mineral titles or moving from one form of title to another, for example, from an exploration title to a mining title. In these cases, the requirements for negotiation and the possibility of paying compensation may result in delay and increased costs for mining in the affected areas. Similarly, the process of conducting Aboriginal heritage surveys to identify and locate areas or sites of Aboriginal cultural significance can result in additional costs and delay in gaining access to land for exploration and mining-related activities.
In Australia, various ad valorem royalties and taxes are paid to state and territorial governments, typically based on a percentage of gross revenues or earnings. Indigenous communities have negotiated compensation/royalty payments as a condition to granting access to areas where they have native title or other property rights.
Boddington, Australia. (100% owned) Boddington is located 81 miles (130 kilometers) southeast of Perth in Western Australia and is accessible primarily by paved road. Mining operations consist of two open pit operations located adjacent to each other. The milling plant has a nominal capacity to process approximately 39 million tonnes of ore per year. Other major facilities include an emulsion plant, residue disposal area (tailings facility), maintenance workshops and a 2,300 room accommodation camp. Additionally, 31 residential properties are owned in Boddington as employee housing. Boddington has been wholly owned since June 2009 when Newmont acquired the final 33.33% interest from AngloGold Ashanti Australia Limited.
The Boddington project area comprises 46,260 acres (18,721 hectare) of mining tenure leased from the State of Western Australia, of which 20,644 acres (8,354 hectare) is subleased from the South 32 Worsley Joint Venturers. Royalties are paid to the state government at 2.5% for gold and 5% for copper based on revenue. Shipping and Treatment and Refining costs are allowable deductions from revenue for royalty calculations for copper. There is an additional profit based royalty payable to AngloGold Ashanti. This royalty is capped at $100 (of which approximately $72 has been paid out). The remaining royalty of approximately $28 is payable quarterly and is equal to 50% of the amount by which the average margin for the quarter exceeds $600 per ounce (on a by-product basis) multiplied by 33.3% of gold ounces sold in that quarter. Mining tenure terms vary between 4 to 21 years, with renewal options available on all core mining tenements. Newmont owns 74,474 acres ( 30,139 hectare) of rural freehold property, some of which overlaps the mining tenure.
Boddington consists of greenstone diorite hosted mineralization and activities continue to develop the known reserve.
The mine operates two pits (North & South Pits) utilizing three Electric Rope shovels as its prime ex-pit material movers with a production haul truck fleet of 40 and fleet of ancillary equipment as required. Boddington has a current capacity to mine approximately 235,000 tonnes of material per day. The milling plant includes a three stage crushing facility (two Primary crushers, six Secondary crushers and four high pressure grinding rolls), four ball mills, a flotation circuit and carbon-in-leach circuit. The flotation circuit process recovers copper concentrate and a portion of the gold in a copper concentrate before the material is then processed by a traditional carbon-in-leach circuit where the remaining gold is recovered.
Boddington’s process plant poured its first gold in September 2009 and commenced commercial production in November 2009. October 2015 saw the approval of the next major layback in the South Pit which commenced in January 2016. There is a limited near mine exploration program currently underway.
Power for the operation is sourced through the local power grid under a long term power purchase agreement.
Boddington’s gross Property, plant and mine development at December 31, 2015 was $3,950. Boddington produced 794,000 ounces of gold and 79 million pounds of copper in 2015, and at December 31, 2015, reported 11.7 million ounces of gold reserves and 1,310 million pounds of copper reserves.
Kalgoorlie, Australia. Newmont has 50% ownership in Kalgoorlie. We report our interest in Kalgoorlie on a pro rata basis. The mines are managed by Kalgoorlie Consolidated Gold Mine Pty Ltd (“KCGM”) for the joint venture owners, Newmont and Barrick. On May 1, 2015, Newmont assumed management oversight of the Kalgoorlie operations, under the new Management Services Agreement signed by the joint venture partners. Kalgoorlie is located 373 miles (600 kilometers) east of Perth in Western Australia and is accessible primarily by paved road. Kalgoorlie comprises the Fimiston open pit (commonly referred to as the Super Pit) and Mt Charlotte underground mines. The milling plant includes Fimiston processing plant on site at the edge of Kalgoorlie town and Gidji plant 30km outside of town. The plant has the capacity to process approximately 12.5 million tonnes of ore per year (at 100%). Gold was first discovered in the area in 1893. In 1989, KCGM was formed to manage the assets and operations of the joint venture partners. Newmont acquired its ownership in the mine in 2002, as a result of the merger with Normandy.
Kalgoorlie consists of greenstone dolerite hosted mineralization. Near-mine exploration and development of new reserves is ongoing at both the Mt Charlotte underground operation and testing for extensions to the open pit Fimiston operation.
The Kalgoorlie operation encompasses approximately 83,956 acres (33,976 hectares), comprising 62,899 acres (25,454 hectares) of mining leases and other general purpose leases, 15,074 acres (6,100 hectares) of exploration and prospecting licenses and 5,983 acres (2,421 hectares) of miscellaneous licenses held for easements and rights-of-way. We are obligated to pay royalties on production to the State Government of 2.5%. Mining and processing operations and facilities are located on properties held under leases which expire at varying dates over the next 21 years. All core mining leases contain options to renew.
Kalgoorlie's processing plant was first commissioned in mid-1989 and has since undergone two major expansions (1991 and 1995) as well as de-commissioning of the Gidji roasters in 2015 to arrive at its current configuration. The Fimiston plant processes ore from the Super Pit and underground ore from the Mt Charlotte mine. Both ores are processed via two milling circuits which consist of two Semi-autogenous (SAG) and associated ball mills which are capable of treating up to 40,000 tonnes per day. After crushing and milling, the ores are processed via gravity and undergo bulk sulfide flotation to produce a gold-bearing sulfide flotation concentrate which is subsequently leached after ultra-fine grinding at either Fimiston or is filtered and trucked to the Gidji ultra-fine grinding processing plant. The flotation tailings are also leached at Fimiston by two carbon in pulp leaching circuits. Loaded carbon from both Fimiston and Gidji is treated at the centralized Fimiston elution (stripping) and electrowinning facility. The gold sludge from the electrowinning circuits is removed periodically from the cathodes and smelted to produce doré gold bars. Excess concentrate which is
unable to be treated on site is sold to overseas smelters for processing. In 2015, the two roasters at Gidji were de-commissioned and a new 30 tonne per hour (tph) ultra-fine grinding mill was installed. This was in addition to the already existing 10 tph ultra-fine grinding mills at Gidji since 2000 and at Fimiston processing plant since 2002. In conjunction with this project, a new carbon regeneration kiln (for a total of three) and scrubbing system was installed at Fimiston. In addition a retort and mercury collection system was commissioned at the Fimiston Gold Room.
Open pits have a fleet of four shovels, one loader, 40 haul trucks, as well as other ancillary equipment. The Mt Charlotte underground mine has underground loaders, a combination of 50 and 60 tonne trucks and drills to enable ore extraction.
Power for the operations is supplied through Newmont Power Pty Ltd (a wholly owned Newmont entity). Newmont Power Pty Ltd sources the power through a combination of purchase from the gas fired power plant in which Newmont holds a 50% interest and through purchase from the local power grid.
Kalgoorlie’s gross Property, plant and mine development at December 31, 2015 was $425. Kalgoorlie produced 316,000 attributable ounces of gold in 2015, and at December 31, 2015, reported 4.2 million attributable ounces of gold reserves.
Tanami, Australia. (100% owned) Tanami is located in the Northern Territory approximately 342 miles (550 kilometers) northwest of Alice Springs. The underground mining infrastructure and operation is located at Dead Bullock Soak. The processing infrastructure is located 25 miles (40 kilometers) to the east of the mining operations at the Granites. Ore is transported by road train to the processing plant. Supply of materials for the operations is done primarily by road while the workforce for Tanami utilizes a fly-in/fly-out program. Gold was first discovered and mined in the area around 1900. Mining Tenements were granted in 1983 and have continued to this date. Newmont acquired its ownership in the mine in 2002, as a result of the merger with Normandy.
The Newmont Tanami Operations has an area of 928,570 acres (375,939 hectares) of exploration licenses and 12,840 acres (5,196 hectares) of mining leases granted as per the Northern Territory Mineral Titles Act. The operation has been granted authorization as per the Northern Territory Mining Management Act to undertake mining activities on these mineral leases. For the exploration licenses, Tanami is required to make an annual payment to the Central Land Council of an administration payment for each Deed (17) and a payment equal to 5% of in ground exploration. The Mining Lease expiry dates range between 2034 and 2036, with the ability to renew. Expiration date for MLS8 (processing plant mineral lease) is May 2034 and MLS154 (mine mineral lease) is February 2036.
As per the Northern Territory Mineral Royalties Act, the operation is obliged to pay a profit based royalty of 20% to the Northern Territory government. The operation is located on Aboriginal Freehold Land as per the Northern Territory Aboriginal Land Rights Act which requires the operation to hold a mining agreement with the Traditional Owners on which the operation is located. The Mining Agreement is managed by the Central Land Council as per the statutory requirements of the Aboriginal Land Rights Act. This agreement dictates the required royalty payment of 2.5% of the gross value of the product to be paid to the traditional owners.
Mining operations are predominantly focused on the Callie and Auron ore bodies in the underground mine at Dead Bullock Soak. Tanami consists of sediment hosted sheeted quartz vein mineralization. Exploration is ongoing with the main focuses being underground ore definition drilling of the Auron ore body and drilling of the Federation ore body with the intention of declaring first probable reserves from this ore body by the end of 2016.
Tanami, as an underground mining operation, has a fleet of underground loaders and 18 dump trucks, each with a 60 tonne payload. The processing plant, originally commissioned in 1986, has undergone numerous expansions to reach its current capacity to process 2.3 million tonnes of ore per year. The processing plant currently consists of a crushing plant, a grinding circuit, gravity carbon in pulp tanks and a conventional tailings disposal facility. During the fourth quarter of 2015, Newmont approved the Tanami Expansion Project which includes building a second decline in the underground mine and additional plant capacity. Building a second decline at Tanami will support a step change in mining rates. The processing plant expansion includes adding a ball mill, thickener and gravity circuit to improve recoveries and expand mill capacity to 2.6 million tonnes per year. The Tanami Expansion Project is expected to be complete in 2017 with first commercial production anticipated in the second half of 2017.
Power for the operations is exclusively sourced from diesel generators which are owned and operated by a business partner.
Tanami’s gross Property, plant and mine development at December 31, 2015 was $1,109. Tanami produced 436,000 ounces of gold in 2015, and at December 31, 2015, reported 3.5 million ounces of gold reserves.
Waihi, New Zealand. (100% owned) The sale of Waihi to OceanaGold Corporation was completed on October 29, 2015. Prior to the sale, the Waihi operation produced 119,000 ounces of gold in 2015.
Batu Hijau, Indonesia. Newmont owns 31.50% of Batu Hijau through Nusa Tenggara Partnership B.V. (“NTPBV”), which we own with an affiliate of Sumitomo Corporation of Japan. We have a 56.25% interest in NTPBV and the Sumitomo affiliate holds the remaining 43.75%. NTPBV in turn owns 56% of PT Newmont Nusa Tenggara (“PTNNT”), the Indonesian subsidiary that owns the Batu Hijau copper and gold mine. The remaining 44% interest in PTNNT is owned by PT Multi Daerah Bersaing (“PTMDB”), 24%; P.T. Pukuafu Indah (“PTPI”), 17.8%; and PT Indonesia Masbaga Investama (“PTIMI”), 2.2%. Batu Hijau is located on the island of Sumbawa, approximately 950 miles (1,529 kilometers) east of Jakarta. The site is accessible by a paved road from the port facility at Benete Bay. The workforce can access the site by ferry from Lombok or by sea plane from both Lombok and Denpasar Bali. Batu Hijau is a large open pit porphyry copper/gold deposit mined using traditional truck and shovel techniques. The mill includes two SAG Mills and four ball mills with a flotation circuit. The deposit was discovered by Newmont in 1990. Development and construction activities began in 1997 and production of copper and gold concentrate commenced in late 1999.
On May 6, 2011, we announced that a definitive sale and purchase agreement was signed with Pusat Investasi Pemerintah (“PIP”), an agency of the Indonesian Government’s Ministry of Finance, for 7% of PTNNT’s shares, the final stake required to be divested by the foreign shareholders to Indonesian parties under the terms of PTNNT’s Contract of Work. Subsequent to signing the agreement, a disagreement arose between the Ministry of Finance and the Indonesian parliament in regard to whether parliamentary approval was required to allow PIP to make the share purchase, and the transaction has never closed.
We have identified Variable Interest Entities (“VIEs”) (see Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements) in connection with our economic interests in PTNNT due to certain funding arrangements and shareholder commitments. We have financing arrangements with PTPI and PTIMI, unrelated noncontrolling shareholders of PTNNT, whereby we agreed to advance certain funds to them in exchange for (i) a pledge of their combined 20% share of PTNNT; (ii) an assignment of dividends payable on the shares, net of withholding tax; (iii) a commitment from them to support the application of our standards to the operation of Batu Hijau; and (iv) as of September 16, 2011, in respect of PTPI only, powers of attorney to vote and sell PTNNT shares in support of the pledge, enforceable in an event of default as further security for the funding. As a result, PTPI and PTIMI were determined to be VIEs and our effective economic interest in PTNNT increased by 17% (20% interest net of withholding tax) to 48.50% during 2010.
In Indonesia, prior to the 2009 mining law, rights were granted to foreign investors to explore for and to develop mineral resources within defined areas through Contracts of Work entered into with the Indonesian government. In 1986, PTNNT entered into a Contract of Work with the Indonesian government covering Batu Hijau, under which PTNNT was granted the exclusive right to explore in the contract area, construct any required facilities, extract and process the Mineralized Materials, and sell and export the minerals produced, subject to certain requirements including Indonesian government approvals and payment of royalties to the government. Under the Contract of Work, PTNNT has the right to continue operating the project for 30 years from operational start-up, or longer if approved by the Indonesian government. Effective May 27, 2011, PTNNT entered into a $600 revolving credit facility with a syndicate of banks. The Credit Facility matures in March 2017. PTNNT’s moveable assets, trade receivables and cash and cash equivalents in pledged bank accounts are pledged as collateral.
The deposit is hosted by a central stock of multiple tonalite porphyries intruded into older diorite and andesite volcanic wallrocks and activities continue to develop the reserve.
The Batu Hijau operation is currently extracting Phase 6 ore utilizing a mining fleet of 111 trucks, six electric shovels and three excavators which are capable of moving an average of 815,000 tonnes of material per day. The Batu Hijau Operation is currently undertaking a Definitive Feasibility Study relating to a Phase 7 layback, with Phase 7 ore within existing declared reserves. Execution of the Phase 7 investment could extend the life of the operation to 2033, with 2,200 million pounds of copper (1,067 million attributable pounds) and 3 million ounces of gold (1.5 million attributable ounces). A decision to proceed with Phase 7 is dependent upon project economics, financing and successful completion of the Contract of Work amendment.
Power for the operations is sourced from a coal and diesel fired power station owned by the Company.
Batu Hijau’s gross Property, plant and mine development at December 31, 2015 was $2,998. Batu Hijau produced 494 million pounds of copper (240 million attributable pounds) and 676,000 ounces of gold (328,000 attributable ounces) in 2015, and at December 31, 2015, reported 2,610 million attributable pounds of copper reserves and 2.7 million attributable ounces of gold reserves.
Our ownership interest in PTNNT may be reduced in the future to as low as 27.5625%, with NTPBV’s interest in PTNNT reduced to 49%, thus potentially reducing our ability to control the operations at Batu Hijau or apply our operating standards. As part
of the negotiation of the divestiture sale agreements with PTMDB, the parties executed an operating agreement under which each party recognizes the right of Newmont and Sumitomo to apply their operating standards at Batu Hijau and binds the parties to adhere to our standards for, among other things, safety, environmental stewardship and community responsibility. The operating agreement remains in effect for so long as NTPBV owns more shares of PTNNT than PTMDB. If the operating agreement terminates, then we could lose effective control over the operations of Batu Hijau and could be at risk for operations conducted in a manner that reduces the value of PTNNT or for safety, environmental or social standards below those adhered to by us. Such loss of effective control may cause us to deconsolidate PTNNT for accounting purposes, which would reduce our reported consolidated sales, cost applicable to sales, amortization, total assets and operating cash flow attributable to PTNNT. See Note 30 to the Consolidated Financial Statements and Item 1A, Risk Factors.
Africa
In December 2003, Ghana’s Parliament unanimously ratified an Investment Agreement (“IA”) between Newmont and the government of Ghana. The IA established a fixed fiscal and legal regime, including fixed royalty and tax rates, for the life of any Newmont project in Ghana. Under the IA, we would pay corporate income tax not to exceed 32.5% and fixed gross royalties on gold production of 3.0% (3.6% for any production from forest reserve areas). The government of Ghana was also entitled to receive 10% of a project’s net cash flow after we had recouped our investment and could acquire up to 20% of a project’s equity at fair market value on or after the 15th anniversary of such project’s commencement of production. The IA also contained commitments with respect to job training for local Ghanaians, community development, purchasing of local goods and services and environmental protection.
In 2012, the government of Ghana enacted a law that increased the corporate income tax from 25% to 35%, eliminated the National Fiscal Stabilization Levy, and changed capital allowances to 20% over 5 years from the previously allowed 80% deduction in year one and then 50% per year on the remaining balance. Per the IA, the increase in the corporate income tax rate would be limited to 32.5% and capital allowances remain at the old rates and basis. The government of Ghana also introduced a bill in Parliament that sought to impose a “windfall profit tax” of 10% on windfall profits of mining companies. The Company believed that the windfall tax of 10% would not be applicable to our Ghana operations due to our IA.
In addition, in 2012, the government of Ghana established a Mining Review Committee to review fiscal regimes and mining agreements with a view to ensuring that Ghana benefits adequately and fairly from the mining sector. Newmont was the first mining company in Ghana called to review its IA. In response, a review team was formed between Newmont and the Government concluding and recommending in November 2014, certain changes to the terms of the IA. After consideration and advancement to Parliament by the Cabinet, changes needed to be ratified and approved by Ghana’s Parliament to become effective. Until then, the current IA of 2003 remained effective and binding.
In December 2015, Ghana’s Parliament ratified the Revised Investment Agreements (“Ghana Investment Agreement” or “Revised IAs”). Key changes to the Revised IA include a change in tax stabilization from life of mine to 15 years from commercial production for each mine. After the stability period concludes, an extension is possible if the company commits to invest at least $300 per mine in mining projects. The maximum corporate income tax rate remains at 32.5%. The Revised IAs introduced a sliding scale royalty system that is based on monthly gold prices. The rates range from 3% to 5% of revenues. The additional 0.6%, as detailed in the IA described above, remains in effect for ounces mined in the forest reserve area. The government of Ghana is also entitled to receive 1/9th of the total amount paid as dividends to Newmont shareholders. Advanced payments on these amounts of 0.6% of total revenues are paid to the government when the average quoted gold price exceeds $1,300 per ounce within the calendar year. The IAs also still contain commitments with respect to job training for local Ghanaians, community development, purchasing of local goods and services and environmental protection. See Item 1A, Risk Factors for a description of risks inherent in contracts with governments.
The Ahafo and Akyem mines operate using electrical power generated by the Volta River Authority and transmitted to the sites by the Ghana Grid Company. Ghana has experienced power generation challenges, which has resulted in power rationing. The Ghana Power Project added 27MW in a co-generation diesel power capacity mode to enable uninterrupted operation of the Ahafo and Akyem processing plants and allow safe, sustainable production in the Africa Region.
Ahafo, Ghana. (100% owned) The Ahafo mine is located near Kenyasi in the Brong Ahafo Region of Ghana, approximately 180 miles (290 kilometers) northwest of the national capital city of Accra. The site is accessible by paved roads. The Ahafo Mine began with the 1997 acquisition by La Source of a 40% share in Rank Mining Company Limited (“Rank”) and the Rank JV Farm-In Agreement with Moydow Mines International Inc (“Moydow”) the holder of the remaining 60% of Rank, covering the Ntotoroso concessions. La Source increased its holding to 50% in 2001 by funding exploration and development in accordance with the agreement. In 2002, Newmont Mining Inc. merged with Normandy Mining Limited and as a result acquired the assets of Normandy
Ghana Gold Limited including 100% of Yamfo-Sefwi and 50% of Ntotoroso property. In 2003, Newmont purchased Moydow’s interest in Rank thereby making it a solely owned subsidiary. The Ahafo mine commenced commercial production in 2006 and currently operates a mill and three pits.
The Ahafo operations has an area of approximately 137,000 acres (55,000 hectares) for the mining lease concession with current mine take area of approximately 18,700 acres (7,600 hectares) that has been fully compensated and approximately 6,500 acres (2,600 hectares) of mining area that has not been fully compensated (i.e. payment would be necessary to move people from their land). Ahafo pays a royalty of 2% on Net Smelter Returns to Franco-Nevada for all gold ounces recovered from the Rank Mining Concession and a sliding scale royalty based on the monthly gold price ranging from 3% to 5% on gold production to the government.
The Ahafo mine is composed of three orogenic gold deposits that have oxide and primary mineralization. The gold is hosted in brittle shear zones cutting granitic intrusives that have kilometer-scale vertical and lateral extent. Gold occurs primarily in pyrite and secondarily as native gold in quartz veins.
The mining method at the Ahafo mine involves removal of ore and waste rock from an open pit mine. Ahafo has three open pits (Subika, Amoma and Awonsu), with current mining from the Amoma and Subika pits. Subika is in the third stage of a four stage pit, whereas Amoma is in the final stage of a two-stage pit. Ahafo’s available mining fleet consists of open pit loaders and 38 dump trucks, each with a 144 tonne payload. The processing plant was commissioned in 2006 to process 7.5 million tonnes of primary and oxide ore per year. Currently with the depletion of oxide ore, the plant throughput has decreased to 6.5 million tonnes per year. The processing plant consists of a crushing plant, a grinding circuit, carbon in leach tanks, elution circuit, counter current decantation circuit and a tailings disposal facility.
Ongoing development projects include Subika Underground, Ahafo Mill Expansion, Ahafo North and Apensu Deeps. The Subika Underground is currently in Definitive Feasibility Study Stage and is being evaluated for full funds approval in the second half of 2016. The Ahafo Mill Expansion has the potential to expand the existing plant by 3.2 million tonnes per year through the installation of a new crusher, coarse ore stockpile, a single stage SAG mill and two leach tanks. The Ahafo Mill Expansion is being evaluated for full funds approval in the second half of 2016. The expansion would maximize synergies between the Ahafo Mill expansion and Subika underground project at Ahafo and allow for a staged execution approach. Ahafo North is aiming to reduce the risks associated with the project. There is opportunity for Apensu Deeps to develop into an independent underground mine leveraging existing and planned infrastructure as well as site and regional overheads.
Ahafo’s gross Property, plant and mine development at December 31, 2015 was $1,779. Ahafo produced 332,000 ounces of gold in 2015, and at December 31, 2015, reported 9.3 million ounces of gold reserves.
Akyem, Ghana. (100% owned) The Akyem mine is located in Birim North District of the Eastern Region of Ghana, approximately 80 miles (125 kilometers) northwest of the national capital city of Accra. The site is accessible by paved roads. In August 2002, Normandy Mining Limited, an Australian company of which La Source SAS was a subsidiary, was acquired by Newmont Mining Corporation and its name changed to Newmont La Source. In line with this acquisition, Golden Ridge Resources which was 85% owned by La Source, became a Newmont subsidiary with the other 15% owned by Kenbert Mines Ltd. In 2006, Newmont, through its subsidiary Newmont La Source, acquired the remaining 15% from Kenbert Mines Ltd. With the 100% ownership, the company's name was changed from Golden Ridge Resources to Newmont Golden Ridge Ltd. In June 2014, the 100% ownership of Newmont Golden Ridge Ltd was changed from Newmont La Source to Newmont Golden Ridge Holdings which is also a wholly owned subsidiary of Newmont. The Akyem operations are comprised of one mill and one open pit mine, and was completed and commenced commercial production in October 2013.
The Akyem operations have an area of approximately 15,500 acres (6,000 hectares) for the mining lease concession. The Akyem Mine is situated on two mining leases between the Government of Ghana and Newmont Golden Ridge Limited in the Birim North District of the Eastern Region. The leases grant the exclusive rights to work, develop and produce gold in the lease area for a term of fifteen years, including the processing, storing and transportation of ore and materials together with the rights and powers reasonably incidental thereto. The leases by law require Akyem to respect or perform certain financial and statutory reporting obligations. Akyem pays a sliding scale royalty based on the monthly gold price ranging from 3.6% to 5.6% on gold production to the government.
The Akyem mine is an orogenic gold deposit that has oxide and primary mineralization. The gold is found in shear zones within greenschist-facies metasediments that have kilometer-scale vertical and lateral extent. Gold occurs primarily in pyrite and secondarily as native gold in quartz veins.
The mining method at the Akyem mine involves removal of ore and waste rock from an open pit mine. The open pit is an elongated structure consisting of a large western lobe (Main Pit) and a small eastern lobe (East Pit), connected near the surface. The planned pit covers an area of approximately 345 acres (139 hectares). The available mining fleet consists of 18 136 tonne haul trucks loaded by two shovels and two excavators with bucket size of 18 cubic meters. The daily production rate is approximately 90,000 metric tons. The Akyem gold processing plant was commissioned in 2013 to treat an average of 8.5 million tonnes of ore annually. The processing plant currently consists of a crushing plant, a SAG and ball milling circuit, carbon-in-leach, elution and bullion smelting facilities, and a tailings storage facility.
Exploration efforts at Akyem are focused on defining the extension of the known mineralization below the planned pit shell.
Akyem’s gross Property, plant and mine development at December 31, 2015 was $1,254. Akyem produced 473,000 ounces of gold in 2015, and at December 31, 2015, reported 3.7 million ounces of gold reserves.
Operating Statistics
The following tables detail operating statistics related to gold production, ounces sold and production costs per ounce:
The following table details operating statistics related to copper production, pounds sold and production costs per pound.
(1)
Ounces from the removal and production of de minimis saleable materials during development. Related sales are recorded in Other income, net of incremental mining and processing costs.
(2)
Production costs do not include items that are included in sustaining costs such as General and administrative; Exploration; Advanced projects, research and development; Other expense, net and Sustaining capital.
(3)
All-In Sustaining Costs is a non-GAAP financial measure. See Non-GAAP Financial Measures beginning on page 82.
Proven and Probable Reserves
We had attributable proven and probable gold reserves of 73.7 million ounces at December 31, 2015, calculated at a gold price assumption of $1,200 or A$1,500. Our 2015 reserves would decline by approximately 5.1% (3.8 million ounces), if calculated at a $1,100 per ounce gold price, all other assumptions remaining constant. An increase in the gold price to $1,300 per ounce would increase reserves by approximately 6.3% (4.6 million ounces), all other assumptions remaining constant. For 2014, reserves were calculated at a gold price assumption of $1,300, A$1,415 or NZ$1,735 per ounce.
At December 31, 2015, our attributable proven and probable gold reserves in North America were 32.4 million ounces. Outside of North America, year-end attributable proven and probable gold reserves were 41.3 million ounces, including 6.4 million ounces in South America, 22.0 million ounces in Asia Pacific and 12.9 million ounces in Africa.
Our attributable proven and probable copper reserves at December 31, 2015 were 5,670 million pounds. For 2015, reserves were calculated at a copper price assumption of $2.75 or A$3.45 per pound. For 2014, reserves were calculated at a copper price assumption of $3.00 or A$3.25 per pound.
Our attributable proven and probable silver reserves at December 31, 2015 were 113.3 million ounces. For 2015, reserves were calculated at a silver price assumption of $19.00 per ounce. For 2014, reserves were calculated at a silver price assumption of $20.00 per ounce. Silver reserves are generally a by-product of gold and/or copper reserves, with significant enough levels to be estimated and included in calculations for mine planning and operations.
Under our current mining plans, all of our reserves are located on fee property or mining claims or will be depleted during the terms of existing mining licenses or concessions, or where applicable, any assured renewal or extension periods for such licenses or concessions.
Proven and probable reserves are based on extensive drilling, sampling, mine modeling and metallurgical testing from which we determined economic feasibility. Metal price assumptions, adjusted for our exchange rate assumption, follow U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) guidance not to exceed a three year trailing average. The price sensitivity of reserves depends upon several factors including grade, metallurgical recovery, operating cost, waste-to-ore ratio and ore type. Metallurgical recovery rates vary depending on the metallurgical properties of each deposit and the production process used. The reserve tables below list the average metallurgical recovery rate for each deposit, which takes into account the relevant processing methods. The cut-off grade, or lowest grade of Mineralized Material considered economic to process, varies with material type, price, metallurgical recoveries, operating costs and co- or by-product credits.
The proven and probable reserve figures presented herein are estimates based on information available at the time of calculation. No assurance can be given that the indicated levels of recovery of gold and copper will be realized. Ounces of gold or pounds of copper included in the proven and probable reserves are those contained prior to losses during metallurgical treatment. Reserve estimates may require revision based on actual production. Market fluctuations in the price of gold and copper, as well as increased production costs or reduced metallurgical recovery rates, could render certain proven and probable reserves containing higher cost reserves uneconomic to exploit and might result in a reduction of reserves.
We publish reserves annually, and will recalculate reserves at December 31, 2016, taking into account metal prices, changes, if any, future production and capital costs, divestments and depletion as well as any acquisitions and additions during 2016.
The following tables detail gold proven and probable reserves reflecting only those reserves attributable to Newmont’s ownership or economic interest at December 31, 2015, and 2014:
(1)
The term “reserve” means that part of a mineral deposit that can be economically and legally extracted or produced at the time of the reserve determination.
The term “economically,” as used in the definition of reserve, means that profitable extraction or production has been established or analytically demonstrated in a feasibility study to be viable and justifiable under reasonable investment and market assumptions.
The term “legally,” as used in the definition of reserve, does not imply that all permits needed for mining and processing have been obtained or that other legal issues have been completely resolved. However, for a reserve to exist, Newmont must have a justifiable expectation, based on
applicable laws and regulations, that issuance of permits or resolution of legal issues necessary for mining and processing at a particular deposit will be accomplished in the ordinary course and in a timeframe consistent with Newmont’s current mine plans.
The term “proven reserves” means reserves for which (a) quantity is computed from dimensions revealed in outcrops, trenches, workings or drill holes; (b) grade and/or quality are computed from the results of detailed sampling; and (c) the sites for inspection, sampling and measurements are spaced so closely and the geologic character is sufficiently defined that size, shape, depth and mineral content of reserves are well established.
The term “probable reserves” means reserves for which quantity and grade are computed from information similar to that used for proven reserves, but the sites for sampling are farther apart or are otherwise less closely spaced. The degree of assurance, although lower than that for proven reserves, is high enough to assume continuity between points of observation. Newmont classifies all reserves as Probable on its development projects until a year of production has confirmed all assumptions made in the reserve estimates.
Proven and probable reserves include gold, copper or silver attributable to Newmont’s ownership or economic interest.
Proven and probable reserves were calculated using different cut-off grades. The term “cut-off grade” means the lowest grade of Mineralized Material considered economic to process. Cut-off grades vary between deposits depending upon prevailing economic conditions, mineability of the deposit, by-products, amenability of the ore to gold, copper or silver extraction and type of milling or leaching facilities available.
2015 reserves were calculated at a gold price of $1,200, or A$1,500 per ounce unless otherwise noted.
2014 reserves were calculated at a gold price of $1,300, A$1,415 or NZ$1,735 per ounce unless otherwise noted.
(2)
Tonnages include allowances for losses resulting from mining methods. Tonnages are rounded to the nearest 100,000 unless they are less than 50,000.
(3)
Ounces or pounds are estimates of metal contained in ore tonnages and do not include allowances for processing losses. Metallurgical recovery rates represent the estimated amount of metal to be recovered through metallurgical extraction processes. Ounces are rounded to the nearest 10,000.
(4)
Property was sold to OceanaGold Corporation on October 29, 2015.
(5)
Gold cut-off grade varies with level of copper and silver credits.
(6)
Project is currently being developed. Cut-off grade utilized in 2015 reserves not less than 0.007 ounce per ton.
(7)
Reserve estimates provided by Barrick, the operator of the Turquoise Ridge joint venture.
(8)
Leach pad material is the material on leach pads at the end of the year from which gold remains to be recovered.
(9)
Stockpiles are comprised primarily of material that has been set aside to allow processing of higher grade material in the mills. Stockpiles increase or decrease depending on current mine plans.
(10)
Cut-off grades utilized in 2015 reserves were as follows: oxide leach material not less than 0.006 ounce per ton; oxide mill material not less than 0.023 ounce per ton; flotation material not less than 0.018 ounce per ton; and refractory mill material not less than 0.080 ounce per ton.
(11)
Cut-off grade utilized in 2015 insitu reserves not less than 0.006 ounce per ton.
(12)
Cut-off grades utilized in 2015 reserves were as follows: oxide leach material not less than 0.006 ounce per ton; oxide mill material not less than 0.015 ounce per ton; and refractory mill material not less than 0.045 ounce per ton.
(13)
Cut-off grades utilized in 2015 reserves were as follows: oxide leach material not less than 0.003 ounce per ton; and oxide mill material not less than 0.014 ounce per ton.
(14)
Project is currently under development. Percentage reflects Newmont’s economic interest at December 31, 2015. Gold cut-off grades utilized in 2015 reserves not less than 0.010 ounce per ton. Merian is currently included in Corporate and Other in Note 4 of the Consolidated Financial Statements.
(15)
Reserve estimates were provided by staff at KCGM, a 50/50 Joint Venture with Barrick. Cut-off grade utilized in 2015 reserves not less than 0.026 ounce per ton.
(16)
Cut-off grade utilized in 2015 reserves not less than 0.082 ounce per ton.
(17)
Percentage reflects Newmont’s economic interest as of December 31, 2015.
(18)
Project is partially developed with on-going studies being completed prior to a production decision. Cut-off grade utilized in 2015 reserves not less than 0.076 ounce per ton.
(19)
Includes undeveloped reserves at six pits in the Ahafo trend totaling 2.6 million ounces. Cut-off grade utilized in 2015 reserves not less than 0.014 ounce per ton.
(20)
Cut-off grade utilized in 2015 reserves not less than 0.013 ounce per ton.
(21)
Reserve balances reported for Conga in 2014 were reclassified to Mineralized Material in 2015.
(22)
Total Gold reserves balances were decreased by 120,000 ounces and 460,000 ounces of gold reserves for ounces removed related to La Zanja (46.94%) and Duketon (19.45%), respectively, which were included previously. For more detail on La Zanja reserves please refer to the Buenaventura website. For more detail on Duketon reserves please refer to the Regis Resources website.
(23)
Cut-off grade utilized in 2015 reserves not less than 0.008 ounce per ton.
(24)
Cut-off grade utilized in 2015 reserves not less than 0.019 ounce per ton.
The following tables detail copper proven and probable reserves reflecting only those reserves attributable to Newmont’s ownership or economic interest at December 31, 2015 and 2014:
(1)
See footnote (1) to the Gold Proven and Probable Reserves tables above. Copper reserves for 2015 were calculated at a copper price of $2.75 or A$3.45 per pound. Copper reserves for 2014 were calculated at a copper price of $3.00 or A$3.25 per pound.
(2)
See footnote (2) to the Gold Proven and Probable Reserves tables above. Tonnages are rounded to nearest 100,000.
(3)
See footnote (3) to the Gold Proven and Probable Reserves tables above. Pounds are rounded to the nearest 10 million.
(4)
Copper cut-off grade varies with level of gold and silver credits.
(5)
Copper cut-off grade varies with level of leach solubility. Leach pad and associated facilities construction completed in 2013.
(6)
Copper cut-off grade varies with level of gold credits.
(7)
Stockpiles are comprised primarily of material that has been set aside to allow processing of higher grade material in the mills. Stockpiles increase or decrease depending on current mine plans. Stockpiles are reported separately where tonnage or contained metal is greater than 5% of the total site reported reserves.
(8)
Percentage reflects Newmont’s economic interest as of December 31, 2015. Copper cut-off grade varies with level of gold and silver credits.
(9)
Reserve balances reported for Conga in 2014 were reclassified to Mineralized Material in 2015.
The following tables detail silver proven and probable reserves reflecting only those reserves attributable to Newmont’s ownership or economic interest at December 31, 2015 and 2014:
(1)
See footnote (1) to the Gold Proven and Probable Reserves tables above. Silver reserves for 2015 were calculated at a silver price of $19.00. Silver reserves for 2014 were calculated at a silver price of $20.00.
(2)
See footnote (2) to the Gold Proven and Probable Reserves tables above. Tonnages are rounded to nearest 100,000 unless they are less than 50,000.
(3)
See footnote (3) to the Gold Proven and Probable Reserves tables above.
(4)
Stockpiles are comprised primarily of material that has been set aside to allow processing of higher grade material in the mills. Stockpiles increase or decrease depending on current mine plans. Stockpile reserves are reported separately where tonnage or ounces are greater than 5% of the total site-reported reserves and ounces are greater than 100,000.
(5)
Leach Pad material is the material on leach pads at the end of the year from which silver remains to be recovered. In-process material reserves are reported separately where tonnage or ounces are greater than 5% of the total site-reported reserves and ounces are greater than 100,000.
(6)
Percentage reflects Newmont’s economic interest as of December 31, 2015.
(7)
Reserve balances reported for Conga in 2014 were reclassified to Mineralized Material in 2015.
The following table reconciles 2015 and 2014 gold, copper and silver proven and probable reserves:
(1)
Reserves mined and processed in 2015.
(2)
Revisions and additions are due to reserve conversions, reclassification of reserves to Mineralized Material, optimizations, model updates, metal price changes and updated operating costs and recoveries.
(3)
Acquisitions includes the CC&V gold mining business which the Company acquired on August 3, 2015.
(4)
Divestments are related to the sale of the Waihi mine, which the Company sold on October 29, 2015.
Mineralized Material
We had attributable gold Mineralized Material of 2,192 million tons at an average grade of 0.017 ounces per ton at December 31, 2015, calculated at a gold price assumption of $1,400 or A$1,650 per ounce. For 2014, attributable gold Mineralized Material was calculated at a gold price assumption of $1,400, A$1,475 or NZ$1,795 per ounce.
At December 31, 2015, our gold Mineralized Material included 457 million tons in North America, 444 million tons in South America, 1,228 million tons in Asia Pacific, and 64 million tons in Africa.
At December 31, 2015, our attributable copper Mineralized Material of 1,797 million tons at a grade of 0.27% was calculated at a copper price assumption of $3.50 or A$4.15 per pound. For 2014, attributable copper Mineralized Material was calculated at a copper price assumption of $3.50 or A$3.70 per pound.
At December 31, 2015, our attributable silver Mineralized Material of 1,540 million tons at a grade of 0.06 ounces per ton was calculated at a silver price assumption of $24.00 per ounce. For 2014, attributable silver Mineralized Material was calculated at a silver price assumption of $25.00. Silver Mineralized Material is generally a by-product of gold and/or copper Mineralized Material estimates, with significant enough levels to be estimated and included in future calculations of potential economic extraction.
All of our Mineralized Material is located on fee property or mining claims. Mineralized Material is a mineralized ore body which has been intersected by a sufficient number of closely spaced drill holes and/or underground sampling to support sufficient tonnage and average grade of metal(s) to warrant further exploration-development work. The deposit does not qualify as a commercially minable ore body until it can be legally and economically extracted or produced at the time of the reserve determination. Metal price assumptions are based on approximately a twenty to thirty percent premium over reserve prices.
The Mineralized Material figures presented herein do not include that part of our Mineralized Material that have been converted to Proven and Probable Reserves as shown above (they are reported exclusive of reserves), and have been estimated based on information available at the time of calculation. Market fluctuations in the price of gold, copper and silver, as well as increased production costs or reduced metallurgical recovery rates, could render certain Mineralized Material containing lower grades of mineralization uneconomic to exploit and might result in a reduction of Mineralized Material.
We will publish Mineralized Materials annually, and will recalculate them at December 31, 2016, taking into account metal prices, changes, if any, in future production and capital costs, divestments and conversion to reserves, as well as any acquisitions and additions during 2016.
Mineralized Material is reported exclusive of reserves. “Mineralized Material” as used in this annual report, although permitted by the SEC, does not indicate “reserves” as defined in the SEC’s Industry Guide 7. Newmont cannot be certain that any part of the reported Mineralized Material will ever be confirmed or converted into SEC Industry Guide 7 compliant “reserves.” Investors are cautioned not to assume that all or any part of the Mineralized Material will ever be confirmed of converted into reserves or that Mineralized Material can be economically or legally extracted.
The following tables detail Mineralized Material reflecting only those that are attributable to Newmont’s ownership or economic interest at December 31, 2015 and 2014:
(1)
Mineralized Material is reported exclusive of reserves. “Mineralized Material” as used in this annual report, although permitted by the SEC, does not indicate “reserves” as defined in the SEC’s Industry Guide 7. Newmont cannot be certain that any part of the reported Mineralized Material will ever be confirmed or converted into SEC Industry Guide 7 compliant “reserves.” Investors are cautioned not to assume that all or any part of the Mineralized Material will ever be confirmed of converted into reserves or that Mineralized Material can be economically or legally extracted.
(2)
Mineralized Material for 2015 was calculated at a gold price of $1,400 or A$1,650 per ounce and at gold price of $1,400, A$1,475 or NZ$1,795 per ounce for 2014. Mineralized Material for 2015 was calculated at a copper price of $3.50 or A$4.15 per pound and at a gold price of $3.50 or A$3.70 per pound for 2014. Mineralized Material for 2015 was calculated at a silver price of $24.00 per ounce and at a silver price of $25.00 per ounce for 2014. Tonnage amounts have been rounded to the nearest 100,000.
(3)
Mineralized Material estimates were provided by Barrick, the operator of the Turquoise Ridge Joint Venture.
(4)
Stockpiles are comprised primarily of Mineralized Material that has been set aside during mining activities. Stockpiles can increase or decrease depending on changes in metal prices and other mining and processing cost and recovery factors.
(5)
Reserve balances reported for Conga in 2014 were reclassified to Mineralized Material in 2015.
(6)
Merian is currently included in Corporate and Other in Note 4 of the Consolidated Financial Statements.
(7)
Mineralized Material estimates were provided by staff at KCGM, a 50/50 Joint Venture with Barrick
(8)
Percentage reflects Newmont’s economic interest as of December 31, 2015
(9)
Total Gold Mineralized Material balances were decreased by 0.9 million tons, 16.0 million tons, and 14.8 million tons of gold Mineralized Material for tons removed related to La Zanja, Duketon and McPhillamys, respectively, which were included previously. For more detail on La Zanja Mineralized Material please refer to the Buenaventura website. For more detail on Duketon and McPhillamys Mineralized Material please refer to the Regis Resources website.
ITEM 3.