ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
We conduct all of our drilling, exploration and production activities in the United States. All of our oil and natural gas assets are located in the United States, and all of our revenues are derived from sales to customers within the United States. During the year ended February 28, 2015, we were involved in oilfield projects in Kern County, California and Lawrence County, Kentucky. During the year ended February 28, 2013, we received revenue only from our oilfield project in Kern County, California having commenced production activities in Lawrence County, Kentucky during the year ended February 28, 2014. We have not filed any estimates of total, proved net oil or natural gas reserves with any federal agency other than this report to the SEC for the fiscal year ended February 28, 2015. Throughout this Annual Report on Form 10-K, oil is shown in barrels (“Bbls”); natural gas is shown in thousands of cubic feet (“Mcf”) or British Thermal Units (“BTU”) unless otherwise specified, and hydrocarbon totals are expressed in barrels of oil equivalent (“BOE”).
Kern County, California (East Slopes Project)
The East Slopes Project is located in the southeastern part of the San Joaquin Basin near Bakersfield, California. Drilling targets are porous and permeable sandstone reservoirs that exist at depths of 1,200 feet to 4,500 feet. Since January 2009, we have participated in the drilling of 25 wells in this project. During the twelve months ended February 28, 2015 we had production from 20 wells. We have been the Operator at the East Slopes Project since March 2009.
We currently have production from five reservoirs at our Sunday, Bear, Black, Ball and Dyer Creek locations. The Sunday property has six producing wells, while the Bear property has nine producing wells. The Black property is the smallest of all currently producing reservoirs, and currently has two producing wells at this property. The Ball property also has two producing wells while the Dyer Creek property has one producing well. There are several other similar prospects on trend with the Bear, Black and Dyer Creek reservoirs exhibiting the same seismic characteristics. Some of these prospects, if successful, would utilize the Company’s existing production facilities. In addition to the current field development, there are several other exploratory prospects that have been identified from the seismic data, which we plan to drill in the future. We plan to spend approximately $675,000 in new capital investments within the East Slopes Project area in the 2015 - 2016 fiscal year.
Producing Properties
Sunday Property
In November 2008, we made our initial oil discovery drilling the Sunday #1 well. The well was put on production in January 2009. Production is from the Vedder Sand at approximately 2,000 feet. During 2009, we drilled three development wells including one horizontal well: the Sunday #2, Sunday #3 and Sunday #4H wells, respectively. During May and June 2013, we drilled two additional development wells: the Sunday #5 and Sunday #6. We have a 37.5% working interest with a 26.1% net revenue interest (“NRI”) in the Sunday #1 well. For the Sunday #2 and Sunday #3 wells, we have a 33.8% working interest with a 24.3% NRI. In the Sunday #4H well, we a 33.8% working interest with a 27.1% NRI. In both the Sunday #5 and Sunday #6 wells we have a 37.5% working interest and a NRI of 30.1%. Our average working interest and NRI for the Sunday property in aggregate is 35.6% and 27.0%, respectively. The Sunday reservoir is estimated to be approximately 35 acres in size with the potential for at least five more development wells to be drilled in the future.
Bear Property
In February 2009, we made our second oil discovery drilling the Bear #1 well, which is approximately one mile northwest of our Sunday discovery. The well was put on production in May 2009. Production is from the Vedder Sand at approximately 2,200 feet. In December 2009, we began a development program on this property by drilling and completing the Bear #2 well. In April 2010, we successfully drilled and completed the Bear #3 and the Bear #4 wells. In May and June 2013, we drilled three additional development wells, the Bear #5, Bear #6 and Bear #7, on this property. In November 2013, we drilled and put on production two additional development wells: the Bear #8 and Bear #9. We have a 37.5% working interest in all wells on the Bear property. Our NRI in the Bear #1, Bear #2, Bear #3 and Bear #4 wells is 26.1%. For the Bear #5, Bear #6 and Bear #7 wells our NRI is 30.1%. Our NRI in the Bear #8 and Bear #9 wells is 31.7%. The average working interest and NRI for the Bear property in aggregate is 37.5% and 28.7%, respectively. The Bear reservoir is estimated to be approximately 62 acres in size with the potential for at least ten more development wells to be drilled in the future.
Black Property
The Black property was acquired through a farm-in arrangement with a local operator. The Black property is just south of the Bear property on the same fault system. The Black #1 well was completed and put on production in January 2010. Production is from the Vedder Sand at approximately 2,200 feet. In May 2013, we drilled a development well, the Black #2, on this property. We have a 33.8% working interest with a 26.8% NRI in all wells on this property. The Black reservoir is estimated to be approximately 13 acres in size with the potential for at least three more development wells to be drilled in the future.
Ball Property
The Ball #1-11 well was put on production in late October 2010. In June 2013 we drilled a development well, the Ball #2-11, on this property. Production on this property is from the Vedder Sand at approximately 2,500 feet. We have a 37.5% working interest with a 31.2% NRI in all wells on this property. Our 3-D seismic data indicates a reservoir of approximately 38 acres in size with the potential for at least three more development wells to be drilled in the future.
Dyer Creek Property
The Dyer Creek #67X-11 (“DC67X”) well was also put on production in late October 2010. This well is producing from the Vedder Sand and is located to the north of the Bear property on the same trapping fault. We have a 37.5% working interest with a 31.2% NRI in all wells on this property. The Dyer Creek property has the potential for at least one development well in the future.
Sunday Central Processing and Storage Facility
The oil produced from our acreage is considered heavy oil. The oil ranges from 14° to 16° API (American Petroleum Institute) gravity. All of the oil from our five producing properties is processed, stored and sold from the Sunday Central Processing and Storage Facility. The oil must be heated to separate and remove water to prepare it to be sold. We constructed these facilities during the summer and fall of 2009 and at the same time established electrical service for our field by constructing three miles of power lines. We have completed an upgrade program to this facility including the addition of a second oil storage tank to handle the additional oil production from the wells drilled in 2013.
By utilizing the Sunday centralized production facility our average operating expenses have been reduced from over $40 per barrel in 2009 to an average monthly expense of approximately $11 per barrel of oil for the twelve months ended February 28, 2015. With this centralized facility and having permanent electrical power available, we have been able to decrease our operating expenses relating to oil processing and storage.
Exploration Properties
Bull Run Prospect
This prospect is located in the southern portion of our acreage position. The drilling targets are the Etchegoin and Santa Margarita sands located between 800 and 1,200 feet deep. Utilizing the data received from a previously drilled well that was not commercially successful, we expect to drill another exploratory well on this prospect. Future Bull Run wells would require a pilot steam flood and additional production facilities. We estimate that the Bull Run prospect is 70 acres in size. We have a 37.5% working interest in this prospect.
Glide-Kendall Prospect
This prospect is also located in the southern portion of our acreage position. The drilling targets are the Olcese and Eocene sands between 1,000 and 2,000 feet deep. We estimate the Glide Kendall prospect is 200 acres in size. We have a 37.5% working interest in this prospect.
Sherman Prospect
This prospect is located in the southern portion of our acreage position. The drilling targets are the Olcese and Etchegoin sands between 1,000 and 2,000 feet deep. We estimate the Sherman prospect is 100 acres in size. We have a 37.5% working interest in this prospect.
Tobias Prospect
This prospect is located in the central portion of our acreage position. The drilling targets are the Vedder and Eocene Sands between 2,500 and 4,500 feet deep. We estimate the Tobias prospect is 60 acres in size. We have a 37.5% working interest in this prospect.
California Drilling Plans
Future drilling plans include a combination of both exploratory drilling and development well drilling. Planned drilling activity will be undertaken after all applicable regulatory permits are received, additional financing is in place, and there is an improvement in crude oil prices.
Lawrence County, Kentucky (Twin Bottoms Field)
The Twin Bottoms Field, comprising approximately 7,300 acres in two large contiguous blocks, is located in the Appalachian Basin of eastern Kentucky. Log data from existing vertical gas wells in the field indicate the existence of proved oil reserves in the Berea Sand, located at approximately 2,000 feet. The lateral leg of each well will be between 2,000 feet and 4,500 feet in length. We have an approximate 25% working interest and an approximate NRI of 21.9% in all horizontal wells in this project. The oil produced from our acreage in Kentucky is light crude oil measuring between 42° and 44° API gravity. We are not the Operator of the Twin Bottoms Field project, but we rely on the experience of the current Operator and their knowledge of this Field.
At February 28, 2015, we had 13 producing horizontal oil wells in the Twin Bottoms Field. Our first well, the Grove #H-1, was put on production in October 2013. During the year ended February 28, 2014, three additional oil wells, the Grove #H-3, Grove #H-4 and Grove #H-5, were put on production. Nine additional horizontal oil wells, the Dillon #H-6, Grove #H-7, Grove #H-8, Grove #H-9, Grove #H-10, Jackson #H-20, Lyons #H-23, Lyons #H-24 and the Dillon #H-22, were put on production during the year ended February 28, 2015. Our average working interest and NRI in these 13 producing horizontal oil wells is 22.4% and 19.6%, respectively.
Kentucky Drilling Plans
Future drilling activity in Kentucky will be undertaken after all applicable regulatory permits are received, additional financing is in place, and there is an improvement in crude oil prices. We plan to spend approximately $1.4 million in new capital investments in the Twin Bottoms Field Project area in the 2015 - 2016 fiscal year.
Encumbrances
The Company’s debt obligations, pursuant to a loan agreement with Maximilian Resources LLC, a Delaware limited liability company and successor by assignment to Maximilian Investors LLC, a Delaware limited liability company, as lender, (either party, as appropriate, is referred to in this Annual Report on Form 10-K as “Maximilian”), and the Company are secured by a perfected first priority security interest in substantially all of the personal property of the Company, and a mortgage on our leases in Kern County, California encompassing the Sunday, Bear, Black, Ball and Dyer Creek properties. For further information on the loan agreement refer to the discussion under the caption “Non-current Borrowings” in the MD&A portion of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Reserves
The following table sets forth our estimated net quantities of proved reserves as of February 28, 2015.
(1)
Natural gas reserves have been converted to oil equivalents at the ratio of six Mcf of gas to one Bbl of oil
The following table summarizes changes in our estimated net proved reserves for the year ended February 28, 2015.
Revisions. Net upward revisions of 88,882 BOE in aggregate were a result of producing reservoir performance offset by lower hydrocarbon prices during the year ended February 28, 2015.
Discoveries and extensions. For the year ended February 28, 2015, extensions of 90,627 BOE were a result of our drilling activity in the Twin Bottoms Field in eastern Kentucky. There were no extensions for the year ended February 28, 2015 added in California.
Production. Production in California was 16,052 BOE and 25,499 BOE in Kentucky representing 41,551 BOE in aggregate of proved reserves for the year ended February 28, 2015.
The following table summarizes changes in our estimated net proved undeveloped reserves for the year ended February 28, 2015.
Revisions. There were net upward revisions of 86,846 BOE in aggregate for the year ended February 28, 2015.
Discoveries and extensions. For the year ended February 28, 2015, extensions of 73,363 BOE were a result of our drilling activity in the Twin Bottoms Field in eastern Kentucky. There were no extensions for the year ended February 28, 2015 in California.
Reclassification. We converted 52,774 BOE of proved undeveloped reserves to proved developed reserves for the year ended February 28, 2015 due to our drilling program in Kentucky.
The following table sets forth our estimated net proved developed reserves as of February 28, 2015 by project location.
The following table sets forth our estimated net proved undeveloped reserves as of February 28, 2015 by project location.
The Company has no proved undeveloped reserves that have remained undeveloped for a period greater than five years. Under our current drilling plans, we intend to convert all 593,551 BOE or 100.0% of the proved undeveloped reserves disclosed as of February 28, 2015 to proved developed reserves within five years of the date they were initially first disclosed as proved undeveloped reserves.
The following table sets forth our estimated proved reserves (BOE) and PV-10 valuation by project area.
The present value of future net cash flows from proved reserves, before deductions for estimated future income taxes and asset retirement obligations, discounted at 10% (“PV-10”), was approximately $17.5 million at February 28, 2015 a decline of approximately $3.9 million or 18.3% from the year ended February 28, 2014. This decline is due entirely to the decline in hydrocarbon prices. The commodity prices used to estimate proved reserves and their related PV-10 at February 28, 2015 were based on the 12-month unweighted arithmetic average of the first-day-of-the-month price for the period from March 2014 through February 2015. The benchmark average price for the year ended February 28, 2015 was $87.73 per barrel of oil and $3.90 per Mcf for natural gas.
These benchmark average prices were further adjusted for quality, transportation fees and other price differentials resulting in an average realized price of $85.49 for oil in California and $41.41 BOE in Kentucky. Adverse changes in any price differential could reduce our cash flow from operations and the PV-10 of our proved reserves. Operating costs were not escalated.
PV-10 is not a generally accepted accounting principal (“GAAP”) financial measure, but we believe it is useful as a supplemental disclosure to the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows presented in our financial statements. The PV-10 of proved reserves is based on prices and discount factors that are consistent for all companies and can be used within the industry and by securities analysts to evaluate proved reserves on a comparable basis.
Reserve Estimation
All of our estimated proved reserves of 888,136 BOE for the year ended February 28, 2015 were derived from engineering reports prepared by PGH Petroleum and Environmental Engineers, LLC (“PGH”) of Austin, Texas in accordance with generally accepted petroleum engineering and evaluation principles and definitions and guidelines established by the SEC.
PGH is an independent petroleum engineering consulting firm registered in the State of Texas, and Frank J. Muser, a Petroleum Engineer, is the technical person at PGH primarily responsible for evaluating the proved reserves covered by their report. Mr. Muser graduated from the The University of Texas at Austin with a Bachelor of Science degree in Chemical Engineering. He is a licensed Professional Engineer in the states of Texas, Alabama, Kansas, North Dakota and West Virginia and has been employed by PGH as a staff engineer since 2012. Mr. Muser has over 20 years of extensive oil and natural gas experience working in both private industry and for the State of Texas. The services provided by PGH are not audits of our reserves but instead consist of complete engineering evaluations of the respective properties. For more information about the evaluations performed by PGH, refer to the copy of their report filed as an exhibit to this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Our internal controls over the reserve reporting process are designed to result in accurate and reliable estimates in compliance with applicable regulations and guidance. Internal reserve preparation is performed by Bobby Ray Greer, Director of Field Operations. Mr. Greer is a 1984 graduate of University of Southern Mississippi in Hattiesburg, Mississippi with a Bachelor of Science Degree in Geology and is a certified Petroleum Geologist and a member, in good standing, of the American Association of Professional Geologists. Mr. Greer has over 30 years of experience in petroleum exploration, reservoir analysis, drilling rig construction, oilfield operations and management.
Although we believe that the estimates of reserves prepared by Mr. Greer have been prepared in accordance with professional engineering standards consistent with SEC and FASB guidelines, we engage an independent petroleum engineering consultant to prepare an annual evaluation of our estimated proved reserves. We provide to PGH for their analysis all pertinent data needed to properly evaluate our reserves. We consult regularly with PGH during the reserve estimation process to review properties, assumptions, and any new data available. Additionally, the Company’s senior management reviewed and approved all Daybreak reserve report information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Under current SEC standards, proved reserves are those quantities of oil and natural gas, which, by analysis of geoscience and engineering data, can be estimated with reasonable certainty to be economically producible from a given date forward, from known reservoirs, and under existing economic conditions, operating methods, and government regulations. The term “reasonable certainty” implies a high degree of confidence that the quantities of oil and/or natural gas actually recovered will equal or exceed the estimate. Reasonable certainty can be established using techniques that have been proved effective by actual production from projects in the same reservoir or an analogous reservoir or by other evidence using reliable technology that establishes reasonable certainty. Reliable technology is a grouping of one or more technologies (including computational methods) that have been field-tested and have demonstrated to provide reasonably certain results with consistency and repeatability in the formation being evaluated or in an analogous formation.
In order to establish reasonable certainty with respect to our estimated proved reserves, we employ technologies that have been demonstrated to yield results with consistency and repeatability. The technical data used in the estimation of our proved reserves include, but are not limited to, electrical logs, radioactivity logs, core analyses, geologic maps and available downhole and production data, seismic data and well test data. Generally, oil and natural gas reserves are estimated using, as appropriate, one or more of these available methods: production decline curve analysis, analogy to similar reservoirs or volumetric calculations. Reserves attributable to producing wells with sufficient production history are estimated using appropriate decline curves or other performance relationships. Reserves attributable to producing wells with limited production history and for undeveloped locations are estimated using performance from analogous wells in the surrounding area and technical data to assess the reservoir continuity. In some instances, particularly in connection with exploratory discoveries, analogous performance data is not available, requiring us to rely primarily on volumetric calculations to determine reserve quantities. Volumetric calculations are primarily based on data derived from geologic-based seismic interpretation, open-hole logs and completion flow data. When using production decline curve analysis or analogy to estimate proved reserves, we limit our estimates to the quantities of oil and natural gas derived through volumetric calculations.
The accuracy of any reserve estimate is a function of the quality of available geological, geophysical, engineering and economic data, the precision of the engineering and geological interpretation and judgment. The estimates of reserves and future cash flows are based on various assumptions and are inherently imprecise. Although we believe these estimates are reasonable, actual future production, cash flows, taxes, development expenditures, operating expenses and quantities of recoverable oil and natural gas reserves may vary substantially from these estimates. Also, the use of a 10% discount factor for reporting purposes may not necessarily represent the most appropriate discount factor, given actual interest rates and risks to which our business or the oil and natural gas industry in general are subject.
Delivery Commitments
As of February 28, 2015, we had no commitments to provide any fixed or determinable quantities of oil or natural gas in the near future under contracts or agreements, other than through customary marketing arrangements that require us to nominate estimated volumes of natural gas production for sale during periods of one month or less.
Summary Operating Data
The following table sets forth our net share of annual production in each project for the periods shown. One barrel of oil equivalent (“BOE”) is roughly equivalent to 6,000 cubic feet or 6 Mcf of gas.
The following table sets forth our net share of oil and natural gas revenue by project area for the periods shown.
The following table sets forth the average realized sales price from each project area for the periods shown.
The following table sets forth the average production cost (BOE) for the periods shown.
The following table sets forth the developed and undeveloped oil and natural gas lease acreage held by us as of February 28, 2015. Undeveloped acres are on lease acreage that wells have not been drilled or completed to a point that would permit the production of commercial quantities of oil and natural gas. Gross acres are the total number of acres in which we have an interest. Net acres are the sum of our fractional working interests owned in the gross acres.
The following table sets forth expiration dates of the leases of our gross and net undeveloped acres for the years shown.
Acres expiring are based on contractual lease maturities. We may extend the leases prior to their expiration based upon planned activities or for other business activities. In California, we have previously determined that there is no likely benefit to pursuing any drilling opportunities on the majority of the expiring leases, so the expiration of these leases is expected to be immaterial to our operations. Further, none of our proved undeveloped reserves have been assigned to locations that are scheduled to be drilled after the expiration of the current leases. All of our proved undeveloped reserves are assigned to leases that are currently held by production (HBP).
The following table sets forth our productive oil and gas wells by the property and in aggregate as of February 28, 2015. Productive wells are producing wells and wells capable of production. Gross wells are the total number of wells in which we have an interest. Net wells are the sum of our fractional working interests owned in the gross wells.
The following table sets forth our exploratory and development well drilling activity for the periods shown.
ITEM 3.