ITEM 2.PROPERTIES (dollars in millions, except per share, per ounce and per pound amounts)
Production and Development Properties
Newmont’s significant production and development properties are described below. Operating statistics for each region are presented in a table in the Operating Statistics section. In addition, Newmont holds investment interests in Canada, Colombia, Mexico and various other locations.
North America
The North America region maintains its headquarters in Elko, Nevada and operates five sites, Carlin, Phoenix, Twin Creeks, Long Canyon and Cripple Creek & Victor.
In Colorado and Nevada, various mining specific taxes are paid to state and local governments. These taxes are generally assessed on gross income from mining in Colorado at a rate of 2.25% or net proceeds from mining in Nevada at a rate of 5%.
Carlin, Nevada, USA. (100% owned) Carlin is located 25 miles west of Elko, Nevada off of Interstate 80 and can be accessed by paved highway. Newmont has been mining gold at Carlin since 1965 and either owns the private fee land and unpatented mining claims, which are renewed annually, or controls the land through long-term mining leases associated with the minerals and surface area within the boundaries of the present operations. Properties held under long-term mining leases expire at varying dates over the next 40 years. With respect to a portion of the Gold Quarry pit, we pay a royalty equivalent to 16.2% of the mineral production. With respect to various other Carlin deposits, we pay third-party royalties that vary from 1% to 8% of production.
The Carlin complex consists of four open pits and four underground mines. The open pits include the Emigrant and the Gold Quarry pits in the South end of the Carlin Trend and the Silverstar and Goldstar pits in the North end of the Carlin Trend. The Emigrant open pit ceased mining operations in December 2018 while residual leaching of gold continues. The underground mines include Leeville, which is a shaft mine, along with Chukar, Pete Bajo and Exodus, which are portal mines. The majority of the underground ore as well as higher-grade surface refractory ores are processed through the roaster at Mill 6, which consists of a grinding circuit, roasting circuit and a conventional carbon-in leach circuit. Mill 6 processed approximately 3.3 million tons of ore in
2018. Higher-grade surface oxide ores are processed by conventional milling and cyanide leaching at Mill 5. Additionally, Mill 5 operates as a flotation mill treating lower grade, non-carbonaceous, sulfidic refractory ore to produce a gold/pyrite concentrate. Mill 5 processed approximately 4.9 million tons of ore in 2018. Lower-grade surface material with suitable cyanide solubility is treated on one of four heap leach pads. Carlin is a sediment-hosted disseminated gold deposit with an available mining fleet consisting of six shovels and 47 haul trucks, which range from 150 to 250 tons.
Brownfield exploration and development for new reserves is ongoing.
Power is supplied by Wells Rural Electric Company (“WREC”) in the southern section of the property and in the northern section of the property power is partially supplied by a power plant Newmont built and placed in operations in 2008. Power generated is sold to NV Energy and then repurchased by the operations.
Carlin’s gross property, plant and mine development at December 31, 2018 was $4,331. Carlin produced 927,000 ounces of gold in 2018 and reported 12.5 million ounces of gold reserves at December 31, 2018.
Phoenix, Nevada, USA. (100% owned) Phoenix is comprised of the Phoenix operations and the Lone Tree operations. The Phoenix and Lone Tree properties are owned through fee property and unpatented mining claims, which are renewed annually.
Phoenix is an open pit operation, located approximately 10 miles south of Battle Mountain, Nevada and can be accessed by paved highway to a Newmont maintained dirt road. Phoenix was acquired through the Battle Mountain Gold merger and began operations in 2006.
Phoenix is a skarn-hosted polymetallic massive sulfide replacement deposit. The Phoenix mill produces a gravity gold concentrate and a copper/gold flotation concentrate and recovers additional gold from cyanide leaching of the flotation tails. The Phoenix surface mine’s available mining fleet consists of three shovels and twenty 240-ton haul trucks. Process facilities include a flotation mill, which processed approximately 12.2 million tons of ore in 2018, a carbon-in-leach plant, a copper leach pad and a solvent extraction electrowinning (“SX/EW”) plant. The copper leach and SX/EW plant allows for the production of copper cathode.
Brownfield exploration and development for new reserves is ongoing.
Lone Tree is an open pit operation, located approximately 20 miles northwest of Battle Mountain, Nevada and can be accessed by paved highway. Lone Tree was acquired through the Santa Fe merger and began operations in 1991.
Mining was completed in 2007, with residual leaching and ongoing reclamation activities. Lone Tree’s available mining fleet consists of two haul trucks, which range from 150 tons to 190 tons, to handle leach material for residual leaching operations. The site also has an autoclave and flotation mill, which are currently on care and maintenance.
Power is partially supplied by a power plant built by Newmont and placed in operations in 2008. Power generated is sold to NV Energy and then repurchased by the operations.
The Phoenix operations’ gross property, plant and mine development at December 31, 2018 was $1,308. The Phoenix operations produced 241,000 ounces of gold and 32 million pounds of copper in 2018. At December 31, 2018, the Phoenix operations reported 2.9 million ounces of gold reserves and 890 million pounds of copper reserves.
Twin Creeks, Nevada, USA. The Twin Creeks property is comprised of the Twin Creeks mine (100% owned) and the Turquoise Ridge joint venture (25% owned).
Twin Creeks is comprised of an open pit and an underground operation. The Twin Creeks open pit is located approximately 15 miles north of Golconda, Nevada and can be accessed by paved highway to a dirt road maintained by Newmont. The Twin Creeks open pit mine began operations in 1987 and was acquired through the Santa Fe merger in 1997. The Twin Creeks underground mine is located below and north of the Vista Pit within the Twin Creeks open pit footprint. First production for the underground mine began in August 2017 and commercial production began in July 2018. The property is owned through fee property and unpatented mining claims, which are renewed annually.
Twin Creeks is a sediment-hosted disseminated gold deposit. Higher-grade oxide ores are processed by conventional milling and cyanide leaching at the Juniper mill. Higher-grade refractory ores are processed in the Sage autoclave and lower-grade material
with suitable cyanide solubility is treated on heap leach pads. Twin Creeks’ available mining fleet consists of two shovels and fourteen 240-ton haul trucks. The process facilities include an autoclave, which processed approximately 4.1 million tons of ore in 2018, an oxide mill, which processed 926,000 tons of ore in 2018, and three leach pads.
Brownfield exploration and development for new reserves is ongoing.
Power is partially supplied by a power plant Newmont built and placed in operations in 2008. Power generated is sold to NV Energy and then repurchased by the operations.
Turquoise Ridge is an underground gold mine located in Golconda, Nevada and can be accessed by a paved highway to a dirt road maintained by Newmont. Turquoise Ridge is a joint venture with a subsidiary of Barrick Gold Corporation (“Barrick”), where Barrick is the operator. We have a 25% interest in Turquoise Ridge and we report our interest on a pro rata basis. The operation includes a refractory ore deposit, which utilizes the Twin Creeks autoclave for processing. Additionally, we have a toll milling agreement with Barrick for processing capacity at Twin Creeks. The agreement has a term of seven years and provides milling capacity to Turquoise Ridge of 850,000 tons per year in 2018 and 2019 and 1.2 million tons per year from 2020 through 2024.
The Twin Creeks operations’ gross property, plant and mine development at December 31, 2018 was $1,308. The Twin Creeks operation produced 359,000 ounces of gold in 2018 and reported 5.5 million ounces of attributable gold reserves at December 31, 2018.
Long Canyon, Nevada, USA. (100% owned) Long Canyon is an open pit operation located approximately 75 miles east of Elko, Nevada off of Interstate 80 and can be accessed by paved highway. Long Canyon was acquired in 2011 through the purchase of Fronteer Gold Inc. The property is owned through fee property and unpatented mining claims, which are renewed annually. Commercial production at Long Canyon was achieved in November 2016.
Long Canyon is a sediment-hosted disseminated gold deposit. Oxide ore with suitable cyanide solubility is treated on a heap leach pad. The Long Canyon available mining fleet consists of two shovels and twelve 240-ton haul trucks. Gold recovered from the leach pad is transferred as gold-bearing carbon to Carlin for refining and shipment.
Brownfield exploration and development for new reserves is ongoing.
Power is supplied by WREC.
Long Canyon’s gross property, plant and mine development at December 31, 2018 was $1,155. The Long Canyon operation produced 170,000 ounces of gold in 2018 and reported 1.0 million ounces of gold reserves at December 31, 2018.
Cripple Creek & Victor, Colorado, USA. (100% owned) Cripple Creek &Victor (“CC&V”) is an open pit operation, located next to the town of Victor, Colorado and can be accessed by paved highway. Newmont acquired CC&V through a purchase from AngloGold Ashanti Limited in 2015. The vast majority of the property is controlled through fee patented mining claims as well as long-term mining leases. Properties held under long-term mining leases expire at varying dates over the next 20 years. Royalties on various sections of the deposit vary up to 5% of production.
CC&V is an epithermal alkalic deposit with heap leaching and milling processing facilities located on site. Heap leaching is used to process lower-grade ore, while the mill is used to process higher-grade ore. CC&V’s available mining fleet consists of two shovels and twenty-two 240-ton haul trucks. The process facilities include a mill, which processed 1.7 million tons of ore in 2018, and two valley leach facilities. Beginning in February 2018, gold concentrate inventory from CC&V is shipped and processed in Carlin, Nevada.
Brownfield exploration and development for new reserves is ongoing.
Power is supplied by Black Hills Energy.
CC&V’s gross property, plant and mine development at December 31, 2018 was $830. CC&V produced 360,000 ounces of gold in 2018 and reported 3.5 million ounces of gold reserves at December 31, 2018.
South America
The South America region maintains its headquarters in Miami, Florida and operates two sites, Yanacocha and Merian.
Yanacocha, Peru. (51.35% owned) Yanacocha is owned by Minera Yanacocha S.R.L. (“Yanacocha” or “MYSRL”), which is 51.35% owned by Newmont. The remaining interest in MYSRL is held by Compañia Minera Condesa S.A, which is 100% owned by Compañia de Minas Buenaventura S.A.A. (“Buenaventura”) (43.65%) and Summit Global Management II VB (5%), a subsidiary of Sumitomo. For further information about ownership transactions during 2017 and 2018, see Note 12 to our Consolidated Financial Statements.
MYSRL and S.M.R.L. Chaupiloma Dos de Cajamarca (“Chaupiloma”) (a related third party) have mining concessions granted by Peru’s Geological, Mining and Metallurgical Institute. Mining concessions grant MYSRL an exclusive and irrevocable right to carry out exploration and exploitation activities within a specified area. In order to maintain these concessions, MYSRL must (i) obtain the appropriate permits and rights over the surface lands, (ii) pay annual license fees and (iii) comply with a minimum annual production obligation. For mining concessions granted prior to 2008, concessions will expire if the production obligations are not met by the end of 2028. For mining concessions granted in 2008 or thereafter, concessions will expire if minimum production is not attained by the 20th year from the date of grant.
In Peru, a revised royalty and special mining tax was introduced in October 2011. This tax is dependent on whether or not a stabilization agreement is in effect and is based on a sliding scale, between 1% and 12%. A stabilization agreement was in effect through December 2018 for operations in the La Quinua Complex.
Yanacocha is located approximately 375 miles (604 kilometers) north of Lima and 30 miles (48 kilometers) north of the city of Cajamarca and is primarily accessible by paved roads. The Yanacocha property began production in 1993 and consists of the following open pit mines: the La Quinua Complex, the Yanacocha Complex, the Carachugo Complex and Maqui Maqui. In addition, Yanacocha has four leach pads (La Quinua, Yanacocha, Carachugo and Maqui Maqui), three gold processing plants (Pampa Larga, Yanacocha Norte and La Quinua), one limestone processing facility (China Linda) and one mill (Yanacocha Gold Mill).
Yanacocha’s mining activities encompass 301,000 acres (121,810 hectares) that are covered by 185 mining concessions. MYSRL holds the mining rights related to 96,338 acres (38,987 hectares), covered by 73 concessions. Chaupiloma holds the mining rights to the remaining acres and concessions and has assigned these mining concessions to Yanacocha. Each concession has an initial term of 17 to 30 years, which are renewable at Yanacocha’s request for an additional 17 to 20 year term.
The La Quinua Complex is currently mining material from the La Quinua Sur and the Tapado Oeste Layback and is scheduled to finish mining operations in 2019.
The Yanacocha Complex mines material from the Yanacocha Layback and Yanacocha Pinos, which are scheduled to finish mining operations in 2019 and 2020, respectively. The Yanacocha Complex began operations in 1997 and has had limited mining operations in recent years.
The Carachugo Complex and Maqui Maqui mined material from multiple mines that are no longer in operation and de minimis residual leaching of gold continues. In addition, the Carchugo Complex processes material from the Quecher Main project, which is a new open pit within the existing footprint of Yanacocha. This project will add oxide production at Yanacocha and will extend the life of the Yanacocha operation to 2027.
Yanacocha has three processing concessions from Peru’s Ministry of Energy and Mines for its processing facilities: Cerro Yanacocha (La Quinua and Yanacocha leach pads, La Quinua and Yanacocha Norte gold recovery plants and Yanacocha Gold Mill), Yanacocha (Carachugo and Maqui Maqui leach pads and Pampa Larga gold recovery plant) and China Linda (non-metallic processing concessions). Yanacocha’s gold processing plants are located adjacent to the solution storage ponds and are used to process gold-bearing solutions from Yanacocha’s leach pads through a network of solution-pumping facilities. The Yanacocha Gold Mill processes high-grade gold ore to produce a gold-bearing solution for treatment at the La Quinua processing plant. The Yanacocha Gold Mill processes between 5.5 and 6.0 million tonnes per year.
Yanacocha is an epithermal type deposit of high sulfidation hosted in volcanic rock formations. Gold is associated with iron-oxides and pyrite. Material is evaluated for gold grade and cyanide solubility and then placed on leach pads or in stockpiles for
processing through the Yanacocha Gold Mill accordingly. Yanacocha’s available mining fleet consists of two shovels, four excavators, two loaders and thirty-one 240-tonne haul trucks.
Brownfield exploration and development for new reserves is ongoing, including the development of the Quecher Main project within the existing footprint of Yanacocha. In addition, we continue to evaluate the potential for mining sulfide gold and copper mineralization.
Power is supplied to the operation by Engie Energia Peru SA.
Yanacocha’s gross property, plant and mine development at December 31, 2018 was $4,490. Yanacocha produced 515,000 ounces of gold (271,000 attributable ounces of gold) in 2018 and reported 3.8 million attributable ounces of gold reserves and 740 million pounds of copper reserves at December 31, 2018.
MYSRL also owns the Conga project, which is located approximately 16 miles (25 kilometers) northeast of Yanacocha and is currently in care and maintenance. Due to uncertainty surrounding the project and political risks related to the project’s development, the Company has allocated its exploration and development capital to other projects in recent years. Should the Company be unable to develop the Conga project, the Company may have to consider other alternatives for the project, which may result in a future impairment charge for the project. See Item 1A, Risk Factors, above for further information.
Merian, Suriname. (75% owned) The Merian gold mine (“Merian”) is owned 75% by Newmont Suriname, LLC (“Newmont Suriname”) (formerly known as Suriname Gold Company LLC and 100% indirectly owned by Newmont Mining Corporation) and 25% by Staatsolie (a company wholly owned by the Republic of Suriname).
Merian is located in Suriname, approximately 40 miles (66 kilometers) south of the town of Moengo and 19 miles (30 kilometers) north of the Nassau Mountains, close to the French Guiana border. The site is accessible by paved road from Paramaribo to Moengo and a dirt road maintained mainly by the Company.
Newmont’s interest in the Merian mine was acquired through a Right of Exploitation as defined in a Mineral Agreement. The Right of Exploitation was registered in November 2014, spans a period of 25 years and covers an area of 41,484 acres (16,788 hectares). Newmont Suriname is subject to a 6% net smelter return royalty to the Republic of Suriname payable in gold bullion or cash distributions at the election of the government.
Merian reached commercial production in October 2016 and the operation currently includes the Merian 2 open pit and the Maraba open pit. The Maraba pit was added in January 2018 and a third pit is expected to be added in 2021. All of the gold mineralization at Merian is closely associated with quartz veining within siltstone and sandstone formations. Merian’s available mining fleet consists of two shovels, four mining excavators and thirty-five 150-tonne haul trucks.
Merian includes processing facilities that utilize a conventional gold mill, primary crusher and processing plant, consisting of a comminution plant, including gravity and cyanide leach processes, with recovery by carbon-in-leach, elution, electrowinning and induction furnace smelting to produce a gold doré product. It has a nameplate capacity of 12 million tonnes per year, reducing later to 10 million tonnes per year when the mill feed will be predominantly from fresh rock. Maintenance facilities, camp facilities with a capacity of 1,650 workers and various offices complete the site.
Brownfield exploration and development for new reserves is ongoing.
Power for the property is self-generated using on-site heavy fuel oil driven generators.
Merian’s gross property, plant and mine development at December 31, 2018 was $1,046. Merian produced 534,000 ounces of gold (400,000 attributable ounces of gold) in 2018 and reported 3.7 million attributable ounces of gold reserves at December 31, 2018.
Australia
The Australia region maintains its headquarters in Perth, Australia and operates three sites, Boddington, Tanami and Kalgoorlie.
Aboriginal land rights in Australia, which recognize the traditional rights and customs of Aboriginal people, are governed by the Commonwealth Native Title Act and certain other Acts specific to individual states and territories. The Commonwealth Native Title
Act was enacted in 1993 following a decision in the High Court of Australia, which held that Aboriginal people, who have maintained a continuing connection with their land according to their traditional laws and customs, may hold certain rights which should be recognized under Australian common law. In the Northern Territory, where the Tanami operation is located, the Aboriginal Land Rights Act (“ALRA”) was introduced in 1976, which established an Aboriginal Land rights regime. Under the ALRA, approximately 50% of the land in the Northern Territory is Aboriginal freehold land.
All of Newmont’s operations in Australia take place on land that falls under the custodianship of Aboriginal people. Newmont does not consider that native title claims or determined areas where rights have been established are an impediment to the operation of existing mines. Newmont has existing agreements with the traditional owners of the land utilized by our Tanami and Boddington operations. A number of overlapping native title claims have been registered in the Goldfields region of Western Australia, which is where our Kalgoorlie operations are located. Any future agreements would depend on a determination of native title, which is likely to take many years. If successful, a native title determination could give rights to compensation claims in the future. Throughout Australia, new exploratory and mining tenements may require native title agreements to be entered into and will be subject to a negotiation process, which often gives rise to compensation payments and heritage survey protocols.
In Australia, various ad valorem royalties and taxes are paid to state and territorial governments, typically based on a percentage of gross revenues or earnings. Aboriginal groups have negotiated compensation/royalty payments as a condition to granting access to areas where native title rights are determined or where they own the land.
Boddington, Australia. (100% owned) Boddington is located 81 miles (130 kilometers) southeast of Perth in Western Australia and is accessible primarily by paved road. Boddington has been wholly owned since June 2009 when Newmont acquired the final 33.33% interest from AngloGold Ashanti Australia Limited.
The Boddington project area comprises 46,697 acres (18,898 hectares) of mining tenure leased from the State of Western Australia, of which 21,018 acres (8,506 hectares) is subleased from the South 32 Worsley Joint Venturers. The total project area is comprised of multiple leases that expire between 2020 and 2039. Royalties are paid to the state government at 2.5% for gold and 5% for copper based on revenue. Shipping and treatment and refining costs are allowable deductions from revenue for royalty calculations for copper. The additional profit based royalty payable to AngloGold Ashanti was capped at $100 and was paid in full. Newmont owns 74,474 acres (30,139 hectares) of rural freehold property, some of which overlaps existing mining tenure.
Boddington consists of greenstone diorite hosted mineralization and activities continue to develop the known reserve. The mine operates two pits (North and South Pits), utilizing three electric rope shovels as its prime ex-pit material movers with a fleet of 39 production haul trucks and a fleet of ancillary equipment as required. Boddington has a current capacity to mine approximately 235,000 tonnes of material per day. The milling plant includes a three-stage crushing facility (two primary crushers, six secondary crushers and four high-pressure grinding rolls), four ball mills, a flotation circuit and a carbon-in-leach circuit. The flotation circuit process recovers gold-copper concentrate before the material is then processed by a traditional carbon-in-leach circuit where the remaining gold is recovered to produce doré.
Mining operations consist of two open pit operations located adjacent to each other. The processing plant has a nominal capacity to process approximately 40 million tonnes of ore per year with optimization projects underway to further increase this capacity.
Brownfield exploration and development for new reserves is ongoing.
Power for the operation is sourced through the local power grid under a long-term power purchase agreement with Bluewaters Power.
Boddington’s gross property, plant and mine development at December 31, 2018 was $4,168. Boddington produced 709,000 ounces of gold and 77 million pounds of copper in 2018. At December 31, 2018, Boddington reported 12.4 million ounces of gold reserves and 1,250 million pounds of copper reserves.
Tanami, Australia. (100% owned) Tanami is located in the Northern Territory approximately 342 miles (550 kilometers) northwest of Alice Springs. The underground mining infrastructure and operation is located at Dead Bullock Soak (“DBS”). The processing infrastructure is located 25 miles (40 kilometers) to the east of the mining operations at the Granites. Ore is transported by road train from DBS underground to the processing facility at the Granites. Supply of materials for the operations is done primarily by road, while the workforce for Tanami utilizes a fly-in/fly-out program. Gold was first discovered and mined in the area around 1900. Newmont’s landholdings at Tanami consist of mineral leases and exploration licenses. Additionally, Newmont operates through
agreements with the Central Land Council who represent the Warlpiri people. Newmont acquired its ownership in the mine in 2002, as a result of the merger with Normandy Mining Limited (“Normandy”).
The Newmont Tanami Operations has an area of 1,010,167 acres (408,800 hectares) of exploration licenses and 12,837 acres (5,195 hectares) of mineral leases granted pursuant to the Northern Territory Mineral Titles Act. The total project area is comprised of multiple leases and licenses that expire between 2019 and 2036. The operation has been granted authorization via the Northern Territory Mining Management Act to undertake mining activities on these mineral leases. For the exploration licenses, Tanami is required to make an annual administration payment to the Central Land Council for each of the Deeds for Exploration, equivalent to 5% of the audited exploration costs incurred in the relevant year minus a minimum payment made in the first quarter of each year.
In accordance with the Northern Territory Mineral Royalties Act, Newmont is obligated to pay a profit based royalty of 20% to the Northern Territory government. The operation is located on Aboriginal Freehold Land granted under the Northern Territory Aboriginal Land Rights Act which requires Newmont to hold a mining agreement with the traditional owners on which the operation is located. The Mining Agreement is managed by the Central Land Council as per the statutory requirements of the Aboriginal Land Rights Act. This agreement also provides for compensation payments to the traditional owners.
Mining operations are predominantly focused on the Callie and Auron ore bodies in the underground mine at DBS. Tanami consists of sediment hosted sheeted quartz vein mineralization.
Tanami, as an underground mining operation, has a fleet of 10 underground loaders and 20 haul trucks, each with a 60-tonne payload. The processing plant was originally commissioned in 1986. The processing plant facilities were expanded and upgraded during the third quarter of 2017 and currently consist of a crushing plant, a grinding circuit, gravity carbon in pulp tanks and a conventional tailings disposal facility.
Brownfield exploration and development for new reserves is ongoing with the main focus being underground ore definition drilling of the Auron ore body and drilling of the Federation ore body.
Power for the operations is exclusively sourced from diesel generators which are owned and operated by Pacific Energy Pty (KPS) Ltd. In December 2017, the Board of Directors approved the full funding of the Tanami Power project. Beginning in the first half of 2019, the Tanami Power project will lower power costs, mitigate fuel supply risk and reduce carbon emissions through the construction of a 280 mile (450 kilometer) natural gas pipeline connecting the Tanami site to the Amadeus Gas Pipeline, and construction and operation of two on-site power stations. The gas supply, gas transmission and power purchase agreements are for a ten year term with options to extend.
Tanami’s gross property, plant and mine development at December 31, 2018 was $1,651. Tanami produced 496,000 ounces of gold in 2018 and reported 4.7 million ounces of gold reserves at December 31, 2018.
Kalgoorlie, Australia. (50% owned) Kalgoorlie is located 373 miles (600 kilometers) east of Perth in Western Australia and is accessible primarily by paved road. Kalgoorlie is a joint venture with Barrick and Newmont is the operator. We report our interest in Kalgoorlie on a pro rata basis.
Kalgoorlie comprises the Fimiston open pit (commonly referred to as the Super Pit) and the Mt Charlotte underground mine. The processing plant includes the Fimiston processing plant, adjacent to the City of Kalgoorlie-Boulder and the Gidji processing plant, located approximately 12 miles (20 kilometers) north of the Fimiston processing plant in the City of Kalgoorlie-Boulder. The Fimiston processing plant is licensed to process approximately 14.5 million tonnes of ore per year. Gold was first discovered in the area in 1893. In 1989, Kalgoorlie Consolidated Gold Mine Pty Ltd (“KCGM”) was formed to manage the assets and operations of the joint venture partners. Newmont acquired its ownership in the mine in 2002 as part of the merger with Normandy.
Kalgoorlie consists of greenstone dolerite hosted mineralization. The Kalgoorlie operation encompasses approximately 82,026 acres (33,195 hectares), comprising 63,726 acres (25,789 hectares) of mining leases and other general purpose leases, 17,693 acres (7,160 hectares) of exploration and prospecting licenses and 5,995 acres (2,426 hectares) of miscellaneous licenses held for easements and rights-of-way. The Kalgoorlie operation is obligated to pay a 2.5% royalty on production to the Western Australia state government. Mining and processing operations and facilities are located on properties held under leases which expire at varying dates over the next 21 years. All core mining leases contain options to renew.
The Fimiston plant processes ore from the Super Pit and Mt Charlotte mine. Both ores are processed via two milling circuits which consist of two semi-autogenous grinding (“SAG”) mills and associated ball mills which are capable of treating up to 44,000 tonnes per day. After crushing and during milling, gold is extracted via gravity processes. The remaining material is processed via bulk sulfide flotation to produce a gold-bearing sulfide concentrate, which is subsequently leached after ultra-fine grinding at Fimiston, or is filtered and moved to the Gidji ultra-fine grinding processing plant. The flotation tailings are also leached at Fimiston by two carbon in pulp leaching circuits. Loaded carbon from both Fimiston and Gidji is treated at the centralized Fimiston elution and electrowinning facility. The gold-bearing deposits from the electrowinning circuits are removed periodically from the cathodes and smelted to produce doré gold bars. Excess concentrate, which is unable to be treated on site, is sold to overseas smelters for processing. Concentrate is treated at Gidji through 35-tonne-per-hour (tph) and 10 tph ultra-fine grinding mills and at Fimiston through a 13 tph ultra-fine grinding mill. The open pit operations utilize a fleet of three shovels, one loader, 40 haul trucks, as well as other ancillary equipment. The Mt Charlotte underground mine utilizes underground loaders, a combination of 50 and 60 tonne trucks and drills to enable ore extraction.
Brownfield exploration and development for new reserves is ongoing at both the Mt Charlotte underground operation and the Fimiston open pit operation.
Power for the operations is supplied through Newmont Power Pty Ltd (a wholly-owned Newmont entity). Newmont Power Pty Ltd sources the power through a combination of purchase from the gas fired power plant in which Newmont holds a 50% interest and through purchase from the local power grid.
Kalgoorlie’s gross property, plant and mine development at December 31, 2018 was $473. Kalgoorlie produced 318,000 attributable ounces of gold in 2018 and reported 3.7 million attributable ounces of gold reserves at December 31, 2018.
Africa
The Africa region maintains its headquarters in Accra, Ghana and operates two sites, Ahafo and Akyem.
In December 2003, Ghana’s Parliament unanimously ratified an Investment Agreement (“IA”) between Newmont and the government of Ghana. The IA established a fixed fiscal and legal regime, including fixed royalty and tax rates, for the life of any Newmont project in Ghana. In December 2015, Ghana’s Parliament ratified the Revised Investment Agreements (“Ghana Investment Agreements” or “Revised IAs”). Currently, the maximum corporate income tax remains at 32.5% and royalties are paid on a sliding scale system that is based on average monthly gold prices. The rates range from 3% to 5% of revenues (plus an additional 0.6% for any production from forest reserve areas). The government of Ghana is also entitled to receive 10% of a project’s net cash flow after reaching specific production milestones by receiving 1/9th of the total amount paid as dividends to Newmont shareholders. When the average quoted gold price exceeds $1,300 per ounce within a calendar year, an advance payment on these amounts of 0.6% of total revenues is required. The Ghana Investment Agreements also contain commitments with respect to job training for local Ghanaians, community development, purchasing of local goods and services and environmental protection.
The Ghana Investment Agreements also include a change in tax stabilization from life of mine to 15 years from commercial production for each mine. In October 2017, the government of Ghana approved Newmont’s request to extend the stability period of the Revised IAs at the Ahafo operations for five years to December 31, 2025. The extension was approved based on Newmont’s commitment to invest at least $300 for the Subika Underground and Ahafo Mill Expansion projects. This commitment was completed during the fourth quarter of 2018.
See Item 1A, Risk Factors for a description of risks inherent in contracts with governments.
The Ahafo and Akyem mines operate using electrical power generated by the Volta River Authority along with supplemental power generation capacity built by Newmont.
Ahafo, Ghana. (100% owned) Ahafo is located near Kenyasi in the Brong Ahafo Region of Ghana, approximately 180 miles (290 kilometers) northwest of the national capital city of Accra, and is accessible by paved roads. In 2002, Newmont acquired 50% of Ahafo as a result of the merger with Normandy. In 2003, Newmont purchased the remaining interest from Moydow Mines International Inc. (“Moydow”), thereby making it a wholly owned subsidiary. The Ahafo mine commenced commercial production in 2006 and currently operates a mill, two pits and an underground operation.
The Ahafo operations cover an area of approximately 137,000 acres (55,000 hectares) for the mining lease concession with current mine take area of approximately 18,700 acres (7,600 hectares) that has been fully compensated and approximately 6,500 acres (2,600 hectares) of mining area that has not been fully compensated (i.e. payment would be necessary to move people from their land). The Ahafo mine operates on three mining leases between the Government of Ghana and Newmont Ghana Gold Ltd. The leases grant the exclusive rights to work, develop and produce gold in the lease area, including the processing, storing and transportation of ore and materials. The leases require Ahafo to respect or perform certain financial and statutory reporting obligations and expire in approximately 13 years and are renewable subject to certain conditions. Ahafo pays a royalty of 2% on net smelter returns to Franco-Nevada for all gold ounces recovered from areas previously owned by Moydow and a sliding scale royalty based on the average monthly gold price up to 5% on gold production to the government of Ghana.
The Ahafo mine is composed of three orogenic gold deposits that have oxide and primary mineralization. Gold occurs primarily in pyrite and secondarily as native gold in quartz veins. Ahafo has two active open pits, Subika and Awonsu. Subika added an underground operation, which reached commercial production in November 2018, and Awonsu is progressing towards future laybacks. The available mining fleet for surface mining consists of three shovels and thirty-eight 141-tonne haul trucks. The available mining fleet for underground mining consists of five underground loaders and eight haul trucks, each with a 60-tonne payload. The daily production rate is approximately 95,000 tonnes. The processing plant was commissioned in 2006 to process 7.5 million tonnes of primary and oxide ore per year. With the depletion of oxide ore, the current plant throughput has decreased to 6.5 million tonnes per year. The processing plant consists of a crushing plant, a grinding circuit, carbon in leach tanks, elution circuit, counter current decantation circuit and a tailings disposal facility.
The Ahafo Mill Expansion, an ongoing development project, will expand the existing plant by approximately 3.5 million tonnes per year through the installation of a new crusher, a single stage SAG mill and two leach tanks.
Ahafo’s gross property, plant and mine development at December 31, 2018 was $2,218. Ahafo produced 436,000 ounces of gold in 2018 and reported 9.7 million ounces of gold reserves at December 31, 2018.
Akyem, Ghana. (100% owned) Akyem is located in Birim North District of the Eastern Region of Ghana, approximately 80 miles (125 kilometers) northwest of the national capital city of Accra, and is accessible by paved roads. In 2002, Newmont acquired 85% of Akyem as a result of the merger with Normandy. In 2006, Newmont acquired the remaining 15% from Kenbert Mines Ltd. The Akyem operations are comprised of one mill and one open pit mine, and commenced commercial production in October 2013.
The Akyem operations have an area of approximately 15,500 acres (6,000 hectares) for the mining lease concession. The Akyem mine operates on two mining leases between the Government of Ghana and Newmont Golden Ridge Limited. The leases grant the exclusive rights to work, develop and produce gold, including processing, storing and transportation of ore and materials. The leases require Akyem to respect or perform certain financial and statutory reporting obligations and expire in approximately 6 years and are renewable subject to certain conditions. Akyem pays a sliding scale royalty to the government based on the average monthly gold price up to 5% on gold production. The Company also pays an additional 0.6% for mining in a forest reserve area.
The Akyem mine is an orogenic gold deposit that has oxide and primary mineralization. The deposit is localized in the Akyem fault zone and gold mineralization is controlled by a series of brittle fracture zones located within the fault zone. The Akyem mine is an open pit mine consisting of a large main pit and a smaller east pit, connected near the surface. The planned pit covers an area of approximately 345 acres (139 hectares). The available mining fleet consists of two shovels, two excavators and nineteen 136-tonne haul trucks. The daily production rate is approximately 88,000 tonnes. The Akyem processing plant was commissioned in 2013 to treat an average of 8.5 million tonnes of ore annually. With the depletion of oxide ore, the current plant throughput has decreased to 7.7 million tonnes per year. The processing plant consists of a crushing plant, a SAG and ball milling circuit, carbon-in-leach, elution and bullion smelting facilities and a tailings storage facility.
Exploration efforts at Akyem are focused on defining the extension of the known mineralization below the planned pit shell as well as investigating the underground potential of the deposit.
Akyem’s gross property, plant and mine development at December 31, 2018 was $1,410. Akyem produced 414,000 ounces of gold in 2018 and reported 2.2 million ounces of gold reserves at December 31, 2018.
Operating Statistics
The following tables detail operating statistics related to gold production, ounces sold and production costs per ounce of our continuing operations:
The following table details operating statistics related to copper production, pounds sold and production costs per pound.
(1)
Production costs do not include items that are included in sustaining costs such as General and administrative; Exploration; Advanced projects, research and development; Other expense, net and Sustaining capital.
(2)
All-In Sustaining Costs is a non-GAAP financial measure. See Non-GAAP Financial Measures beginning on page 80.
Proven and Probable Reserves
We had attributable proven and probable gold reserves of 65.4 million ounces at December 31, 2018. For 2018 and 2017, reserves were calculated at a gold price assumption of $1,200 or A$1,600 per ounce. Our 2018 reserves would increase by 7% (5 million ounces), or decline by 13% (8 million ounces), if calculated at a $1,300 and $1,100 per ounce gold price, respectively, with all other assumptions remaining constant.
At December 31, 2018, our attributable proven and probable gold reserves in North America were 25.2 million ounces. Outside of North America, year-end attributable proven and probable gold reserves were 40.2 million ounces, including 7.5 million ounces in South America, 20.7 million ounces in Australia and 12.0 million ounces in Africa.
Our attributable proven and probable copper reserves at December 31, 2018 were 2,880 million pounds. For 2018 and 2017, reserves were calculated at a copper price assumption of $2.50 or A$3.35 per pound.
Our attributable proven and probable silver reserves at December 31, 2018 were 85.7 million ounces. For 2018 and 2017, reserves were calculated at a silver price assumption of $16 per ounce. Silver reserves are generally a by-product of gold and/or copper reserves, with significant enough levels to be estimated and included in calculations for mine planning and operations.
Under our current mining plans, all of our reserves are located on fee property or mining claims or will be depleted during the terms of existing mining licenses or concessions, or where applicable, any assured renewal or extension periods for such licenses or concessions.
Proven and probable reserves are based on extensive drilling, sampling, mine modeling and metallurgical testing from which we determined economic feasibility. Metal price assumptions, adjusted for our exchange rate assumption, follow SEC guidance not to exceed a three year trailing average. The price sensitivity of reserves depends upon several factors including grade, metallurgical recovery, operating cost, waste-to-ore ratio and ore type. Metallurgical recovery rates vary depending on the metallurgical properties of each deposit and the production process used. The reserve tables below list the average metallurgical recovery rate for each deposit, which takes into account the relevant processing methods. The cut-off grade, or lowest grade of mineralization considered economic to process, varies with material type, price, metallurgical recoveries, operating costs and co- or by-product credits.
The proven and probable reserve figures presented herein are estimates based on information available at the time of calculation. No assurance can be given that the indicated levels of recovery of gold and copper will be realized. Ounces of gold or pounds of copper included in the proven and probable reserves are those contained prior to losses during metallurgical treatment. Reserve estimates may require revision based on actual production. Market fluctuations in the price of gold and copper, as well as increased
production costs or reduced metallurgical recovery rates, could render certain proven and probable reserves containing higher cost reserves uneconomic to exploit and might result in a reduction of reserves.
We publish reserves annually, and will recalculate reserves at December 31, 2019, taking into account metal prices, changes, if any, to future production and capital costs, divestments and depletion as well as any acquisitions and additions during 2019.
The following tables detail gold proven and probable reserves reflecting only those reserves attributable to Newmont’s ownership or economic interest at December 31, 2018 and 2017:
(1)
The term “reserve” means that part of a mineral deposit that can be economically and legally extracted or produced at the time of the reserve determination.
The term “economically,” as used in the definition of reserve, means that profitable extraction or production has been established or analytically demonstrated in a feasibility study to be viable and justifiable under reasonable investment and market assumptions.
The term “legally,” as used in the definition of reserve, does not imply that all permits needed for mining and processing have been obtained or that other legal issues have been completely resolved. However, for a reserve to exist, Newmont must have a justifiable expectation, based on applicable laws and regulations, that issuance of permits or resolution of legal issues necessary for mining and processing at a particular deposit will be accomplished in the ordinary course and in a timeframe consistent with Newmont’s current mine plans.
The term “proven reserves” means reserves for which (a) quantity is computed from dimensions revealed in outcrops, trenches, workings or drill holes; (b) grade and/or quality are computed from the results of detailed sampling; and (c) the sites for inspection, sampling and measurements
are spaced so closely and the geologic character is sufficiently defined that size, shape, depth and mineral content of reserves are well established.
The term “probable reserves” means reserves for which quantity and grade are computed from information similar to that used for proven reserves, but the sites for sampling are farther apart or are otherwise less closely spaced. The degree of assurance, although lower than that for proven reserves, is high enough to assume continuity between points of observation. Newmont classifies all reserves as Probable on its development projects until a year of production has confirmed all assumptions made in the reserve estimates.
Proven and probable reserves include gold, copper or silver attributable to Newmont’s ownership or economic interest.
Proven and probable reserves were calculated using different cut-off grades. The term “cut-off grade” means the lowest grade of mineralized material considered economic to process. Cut-off grades vary between deposits depending upon prevailing economic conditions, mineability of the deposit, by-products, amenability of the ore to gold, copper or silver extraction and type of milling or leaching facilities available.
2018 and 2017 reserves were calculated at a gold price of $1,200, or A$1,600 per ounce unless otherwise noted.
(2)
Tonnages include allowances for losses resulting from mining methods. Tonnages are rounded to the nearest 100,000.
(3)
Ounces are estimates of metal contained in ore tonnages and do not include allowances for processing losses. Metallurgical recovery rates represent the estimated amount of metal to be recovered through metallurgical extraction processes. Ounces may not recalculate as they are rounded to the nearest 10,000.
(4)
Cut-off grades utilized in 2018 reserves were as follows: oxide leach material not less than 0.006 ounce per ton; oxide mill material not less than 0.030 ounce per ton; flotation material not less than 0.016 ounce per ton; and refractory mill material not less than 0.041 ounce per ton.
(5)
Leach pad material is the material on leach pads at the end of the year from which gold remains to be recovered. In-process reserves are reported separately where ounces exceed 100,000 and are greater than 5% of the total site-reported reserves.
(6)
Stockpiles are comprised primarily of material that has been set aside to allow processing of higher grade material in the mills. Stockpiles increase or decrease depending on current mine plans. Stockpile reserves are reported separately where ounces exceed 100,000 and are greater than 5% of the total site-reported reserves.
(7)
Cut-off grade utilized in 2018 reserves not less than 0.048 ounce per ton.
(8)
Gold cut-off grade varies with level of copper and silver credits.
(9)
Reserve estimates provided by Barrick, the operator of the Turquoise Ridge joint venture, as of February 13, 2019.
(10)
Cut-off grades utilized in 2018 reserves were as follows: oxide leach material not less than 0.008 ounce per ton; oxide mill material not less than 0.016 ounce per ton; and refractory mill material not less than 0.046 ounce per ton.
(11)
Cut-off grade utilized in 2018 reserves not less than 0.007 ounce per ton.
(12)
Cut-off grades utilized in 2018 reserves were as follows: oxide mill material not less than 0.040 ounce per ton and leach material not less than 0.007 ounce per ton.
(13)
Gold cut-off grades utilized in 2018 reserves were as follows: oxide leach material not less than 0.004 ounce per ton; oxide mill material not less than 0.013 ounce per ton; and refractory mill material not less than 0.040 ounce per ton.
(14)
Gold cut-off grades utilized in 2018 reserves not less than 0.054 ounce per ton.
(15)
Cut-off grade utilized in 2018 reserves not less than 0.010 ounce per ton.
(16)
Gold cut-off grade varies with level of copper credits.
(17)
Cut-off grade utilized in 2018 reserves not less than 0.047 ounce per ton.
(18)
Cut-off grade utilized in 2018 in situ reserves not less than 0.026 ounce per ton.
(19)
Cut-off grade utilized in 2018 reserves not less than 0.019 ounce per ton.
(20)
Cut-off grade utilized in 2018 reserves not less than 0.064 ounce per ton.
(21)
Includes undeveloped reserves at six pits in the Ahafo trend totaling 3.4 million ounces. Cut-off grade utilized in 2018 reserves not less than 0.014 ounce per ton.
(22)
Cut-off grade utilized in 2018 reserves not less than 0.016 ounce per ton.
The following tables detail copper proven and probable reserves reflecting only those reserves attributable to Newmont’s ownership or economic interest at December 31, 2018 and 2017:
(1)
See footnote (1) to the Gold Proven and Probable Reserves tables above. Copper reserves for 2018 and 2017 were calculated at a copper price of $2.50 or A$3.35 per pound.
(2)
See footnote (2) to the Gold Proven and Probable Reserves tables above. Tonnages are rounded to nearest 100,000.
(3)
See footnote (3) to the Gold Proven and Probable Reserves tables above. Pounds may not recalculate as they are rounded to the nearest 10 million.
(4)
Copper cut-off grade varies with level of gold and silver credits.
(5)
Copper cut-off grade varies with level of gold and silver credits.
(6)
Copper cut-off grade varies with level of gold credits.
(7)
Stockpiles are comprised primarily of material that has been set aside to allow processing of higher grade material in the mills. Stockpiles increase or decrease depending on current mine plans. Stockpiles are reported separately where pounds exceed 100 million and are greater than 5% of the total site reported reserves.
The following tables detail silver proven and probable reserves reflecting only those reserves attributable to Newmont’s ownership or economic interest at December 31, 2018 and 2017:
(1)
See footnote (1) to the Gold Proven and Probable Reserves tables above. Silver reserves for 2018 and 2017 were calculated at a silver price of $16.
(2)
See footnote (2) to the Gold Proven and Probable Reserves tables above. Tonnages are rounded to nearest 100,000.
(3)
See footnote (3) to the Gold Proven and Probable Reserves tables above.
(4)
Stockpiles are comprised primarily of material that has been set aside to allow processing of higher grade material in the mills. Stockpiles increase or decrease depending on current mine plans. Stockpile reserves are reported separately where ounces exceed 100,000 and are greater than 5% of the total site-reported reserves.
(5)
Leach Pad material is the material on leach pads at the end of the year from which silver remains to be recovered. In-process material reserves are reported separately where tonnage or ounces are greater than 5% of the total site-reported reserves and ounces are greater than 100,000.
The following table reconciles 2018 and 2017 gold, copper and silver proven and probable reserves:
(1)
Revisions are due to reclassification of reserves to mineralized material, optimizations, model updates, metal price changes and updated operating costs and recoveries. The 3.6 million ounces of negative gold revisions were largely at the Carlin (1.6 million ounces) and Phoenix (1.1 million ounces) open pit mines in North America. The Carlin revisions were due to the removal of a layback at the Gold Quarry mine which was driven by an updated pit design and geotechnical assumptions. Other revisions at Carlin were due to increased costs, lower recovery and other model changes. The Phoenix revisions were due to an updated resource model that was based on recent drilling and reduced mill recovery assumptions based on actual plant performance. A portion of the Carlin revisions and the Phoenix revisions have been reclassified as mineralized material. Future positive revisions, if any, remain subject to improvements in costs, recovery, gold price or a combination of these and other factors. The copper and silver revisions in 2018 were primarily related to the model update at Phoenix in North America.
(2)
Additions are due to reserve conversions from mineralized material due to new drilling information and successful feasibility studies for first time declarations. The copper and silver additions were for first time declarations at Yanacocha.
(3)
Divestments relate to the Yanacocha 5% ownership interest sale to a subsidiary of Sumitomo, reducing Newmont’s ownership to 51.35%.
Mineralized Material
All of our mineralized material is located on fee property or mining claims. Mineralized material is a mineralized ore body which has been intersected by a sufficient number of closely spaced drill holes and/or underground sampling to support sufficient tonnage and average grade of metal(s) to warrant further exploration development work. The deposit does not qualify as a commercially minable ore body until it can be legally and economically extracted or produced at the time of the reserve determination. Metal price assumptions are based on approximately a twenty to thirty percent premium over reserve prices.
We had attributable gold mineralized material of 1,956 million tons at an average grade of 0.020 ounces per ton at December 31, 2018. For 2018 and 2017, attributable gold mineralized material was calculated at a gold price assumption of $1,400 or A$1,750 per ounce.
At December 31, 2018, our gold mineralized material included 995 million tons in North America, 475 million tons in South America, 428 million tons in Australia and 58 million tons in Africa.
We had attributable copper mineralized material of 1,584 million tons at a grade of 0.29% at December 31, 2018. For 2018 and 2017, attributable copper mineralized material was calculated at a copper price assumption of $3.25 or A$4.00 per pound.
We had attributable silver mineralized material of 1,135 million tons at a grade of 0.11 ounces per ton at December 31, 2018. For 2018 and 2017, attributable silver mineralized material was calculated at a silver price assumption of $20 per ounce. Silver mineralized material is generally a by-product of gold and/or copper mineralized material estimates, with significant enough levels to be estimated and included in future calculations of potential economic extraction.
The mineralized material figures presented herein do not include that part of our mineralized material that has been converted to Proven and Probable Reserves as shown above, as they are reported exclusive of reserves, and have been estimated based on information available at the time of calculation. Market fluctuations in the price of gold, copper and silver, as well as increased production costs or reduced metallurgical recovery rates, could render certain mineralized material containing lower grades of mineralization uneconomic to exploit and might result in a reduction of mineralized material.
We will publish mineralized materials annually, and will recalculate them at December 31, 2019, taking into account metal prices, changes, if any, in future production and capital costs, divestments and conversion to reserves, as well as any acquisitions and additions during 2019.
Mineralized material is reported exclusive of reserves. Mineralized material as used in this annual report, although permitted by the SEC, does not indicate “reserves” as defined in the SEC’s Industry Guide 7. Newmont cannot be certain that any part of the
reported mineralized material will ever be confirmed or converted into SEC Industry Guide 7 compliant “reserves.” Investors are cautioned not to assume that all or any part of the mineralized material will ever be confirmed or converted into reserves or that mineralized material can be economically or legally extracted.
The following tables detail mineralized material reflecting only those that are attributable to Newmont’s ownership or economic interest at December 31, 2018 and 2017:
(1)
Mineralized material is reported exclusive of reserves. “Mineralized material” as used in this annual report, although permitted by the SEC, does not indicate “reserves” as defined in the SEC’s Industry Guide 7. Newmont cannot be certain that any part of the reported mineralized material will ever be confirmed or converted into SEC Industry Guide 7 compliant “reserves.” Investors are cautioned not to assume that all or any part of the mineralized material will ever be confirmed or converted into reserves or that mineralized material can be economically or legally extracted.
(2)
Mineralized material for 2018 and 2017 was calculated at a gold price of $1,400 or A$1,750 per ounce. Mineralized material for 2018 and 2017 was calculated at a copper price of $3.25 or A$4.00 per pound. Mineralized material for 2018 and 2017 was calculated at a silver price of $20 per ounce. Tonnage amounts have been rounded to the nearest 100,000.
(3)
Stockpiles are comprised primarily of Mineralized material that has been set aside during mining activities. Stockpiles can increase or decrease depending on changes in metal prices and other mining and processing cost and recovery factors. Stockpile Mineralized material are reported separately where tonnage exceeds 100,000 and is greater than 5% of the total site-reported mineralized material.
(4)
Mineralized material estimates were provided by Barrick, the operator of the Turquoise Ridge Joint Venture.
(5)
Mineralized material estimates were provided by Teck Resources, the operator of Galore Creek.
ITEM 3.