ITEM 2. PROPERTIES.
We currently lease office space located at Suite 100, 2441 W. Horizon Ridge Parkway, Henderson, NV 89052 at a rate of $5,975 per month. The lease terms expired on August 31, 2008, and we continue to rent the existing space on a month-to-month basis.
We currently own an interest in, or rights to, two mineral projects that we refer to as the Columbus Project and the Red Mountain Project.
THE COLUMBUS PROJECT
The Columbus Project is a sediment hosted gold and silver exploration project located in western Nevada. It is comprised of 584 mining and millsite claims which cover 48,938 acres and an additional 80 acres of private land, for a total of 49,018 acres. It includes a permitted and operational pilot plant and mine site. We currently own a 100% stake in 149 of the claims (which we refer to as the “CSM Claims”), 100% stake in additional 288 claims (which we refer to as the “Ireland Claims”), with rights to an additional 147 peripheral claims (which we refer to as the “DDB Claims”).
LOCATION
The mineral claims that make up the Columbus Project are located in the Columbus Salt Marsh, Esmeralda County, Nevada, northwest of Coaldale Junction, approximately 50 miles west of Tonopah (Fig. 1) halfway between Las Vegas and Reno. Access is from the junction of US6 and Nevada Highway 95, approximately 10 miles north of Coaldale Junction, to a gravel road westerly to the mill site and to the remains of the town of Columbus.
The Columbus Salt Marsh is an enclosed basin and is a dry lake bed for the majority of the year. All surface drainage from a surrounding 360 square mile area flows into the Columbus Salt Marsh.
Figure 1: Location of Columbus Project
TITLE AND OWNERSHIP RIGHTS TO THE CSM CLAIMS, IRELAND CLAIMS AND THE DDB CLAIMS
The CSM Claims and the Ireland Claims are wholly owned by Columbus S.M., LLC (“CSM”). CSM is a wholly owned subsidiary of Columbus Minerals Inc., which is a wholly owned subsidiary of Ireland Inc.
The DDB Claims are wholly owned by a mining syndicate known as the DDB Syndicate. Lawrence E. Chizmar, Jr., a former member of our Board of Directors (and a former director of Columbus Brine Inc. (“CBI”), the former owner of CSM and the CSM claims) and a limited liability company controlled by Douglas D.G. Birnie, our President and Chief Executive Officer, and a member of our Board of Directors, are each the owners of a 1/8 interest in the DDB Syndicate. The remaining members of the DDB Syndicate are made up of the former officers and directors of CBI, the brother of a former officer and director of CBI, and certain affiliates of Nanominerals Corp. (“Nanominerals”). Nanominerals is a significant shareholder in our Company. Mr. Birnie also owns a 3.5% interest in Nanominerals. The DDB Claims were located by the DDB Syndicate in February 2007, prior to Mr. Birnie’s, Nanominerals’ or Mr. Chizmar’s involvement with our Company. Mr. Birnie also acquired his interest in Nanominerals prior to his involvement with our Company.
Figure 2: Columbus Project Property Map
Our rights to the DDB Claims are pursuant to the terms of a mining lease with the DDB Syndicate dated November 30, 2007 (the “DDB Agreement”). The DDB Agreement provides us with a five year lease on the DDB Claims, ending on November 29, 2012, with an option to purchase the DDB Claims at anytime during the lease period. To date, we have paid the DDB Syndicate $220,000 under the terms of the DDB Agreement. Under the option rights provided under the DDB Agreement, we may purchase the DDB Claims at any time by either:
(a)
paying the DDB Syndicate the purchase price of $400,000 (with all previously made rental payments credited against such purchase price); or
(b)
paying the DDB Syndicate $10, plus granting the DDB Syndicate a royalty of 2% of net smelter returns on the DDB Claims.
Current budget includes a payment to the DDB Syndicate of $180,000 in 2012 to fulfill the purchase agreement for the DDB claims.
ACCESS AND INFRASTRUCTURE
The Columbus Project contains an operational pilot plant, lab and living facilities with power supplied by generators and water from an onsite well. Water used for processing is available from existing wells located on the surrounding basin (the “Columbus Basin”). There is also a high voltage grid located at the Candelaria Mines, approximately three miles from the Columbus Project.
Permits have been obtained for the extraction of precious metals and the production of calcium carbonate from an area of interest consisting of approximately 378 acres, including millsite, roads and mineable acreage.
HISTORY
The Columbus area has had mining activity for over 100 years. Silver was discovered in 1863 in the area of the Candelaria Mine, to the northwest of the Columbus Basin. These deposits were mined intermittently by different companies through 1999, producing large quantities of silver and minor gold. Salt was first mined in the Columbus Salt Marsh in 1864, followed by borax in 1871. Precious metals were thought to exist in the basin sediments as early as the late 19th century but no production is documented. Mining ceased in the Columbus Marsh around the beginning of the 20th century.
The Columbus Project is located in an area that has historically been known as a well mineralized region. A silver and gold mining operation known as the Candelaria Mine is located approximately five miles northwest of the Columbus Project. The Round Mountain project is a gold operation located approximately 60 miles northeast of the Columbus Project. The Clayton Valley Brine Project, a lithium extraction project, is located approximately 25 miles southeast of the Columbus Project.
GEOLOGY
The Columbus Project covers a flat enclosed basin with a surface composed of salt deposits and is primarily devoid of vegetation. Older sediments, which host the silver deposits of Candelaria, underlie several sequences of volcanic rocks, with the youngest being the 15Ma Gilbert Andesite. The region has undergone older thrust faulting, which hosts the Candelaria deposits, and later extensional faulting as a result of movement along the Walker Lane. The Columbus Basin is one of several structural basins in the region caused by right lateral movement along the Walker Lane and the subsequent clockwise rotation and oblique extensional down dropping of the blocks within this structural domain.
EXPLORATION ACTIVITIES
Exploration and development work to date has identified three different host materials (sand, clay, brine) each of which could potentially contain commercial quantities of gold and silver mineralization within the project area. The sand zones outcrop on the western side of the Columbus basin and dip gently eastward. The clay zones also outcrop and overlay the sand zones. The brine zone occurs as an aquifer at some 400 feet depth underlying the sand/clay zones. Our exploration efforts to date have focused on drilling both the sand and clay zones within the approximately 5,000 acre Columbus Project Area of Interest outlined by previous geochemical exploration work. Our recent work has focused on the North Sand Zone.
To date, 34 holes have been drilled in the North Sand Zone. Analyses of drill samples have outlined a deposit covering approximately 0.67 square miles, to a depth of 200 feet beneath the surface of the Columbus Marsh Basin, with a weight mean average head grade of .034 opt Au and 0.179 opt Ag (.038 opt AuE. We estimate the drill-inferred tonnage of mineralized sands within this zone at approximately 145 million (MM) tons. In addition, the drill-inferred tonnage of the mineralized sands within the South Sand Zone, to a depth of 100 feet, is currently estimated at approximately 29 MM tons with a weight mean average head grade of 0.036 opt Au and 0.182 opt Ag (0.041 opt AuE) , resulting in a total of 174MM tons. Previous drilling has indicated that the mineralized sands in both North and South Sand Zones extend below 200 feet in depth.
We have been granted the permit for our 2012 drill program, which will consist of 31 drill holes to a depth of at least 200 feet. The drill program will cover an additional 0.48 square miles adjacent to the North Sand Zone. The goal of this program is to expand the boundaries of the North and South Sand Zones. Following completion of the 2012 drill program, we will re-evaluate the boundaries of the sand zones, the quantity of the tonnage contained therein and the quality of the mineralization estimates within these areas.
Figure 3: Map of North and South Sand Zones
Historical Surface Sampling Program and Drill Programs
Near surface basin sediment samples were taken in late 2006 and early 2007 and analyzed by Arrakis Inc. (“Arrakis”), an independent engineering lab based in Denver, Colorado. 64 surface samples, four shallow boring samples, and a bulk sample were taken and analyzed using a four acid total digestion and atomic absorption analysis. Samples were analyzed for Au, Ag, Cu, and Fe. This work led to the discovery of a 5,000 acre surface gold anomaly in the northwestern part of the basin. This gold anomaly is the primary focus of current exploration and development work. The Permitted Mine Area (320 acres) is situated in the north end of this zone.
An 18-hole hollow stem auger drill program was undertaken in Q3 2007 in the Permitted Mine Area to establish mineral potential at depth. Samples were 18” in length, taken every 10’ with a split spoon sampler. Material was analyzed by Arrakis using a 3-acid modified version of aqua regia. A split was analyzed by CBI staff at the onsite facility using a standard fire assay and it was found that standard fire assay was ineffective. Repeated firing of the slag showed that various amounts of the metals remained in the slag after each firing.
Encouraging results warranted a second drill program, managed by independent consultants McEwen Geological LLC (“McEwen”), which took place in Q2-Q3 2008, consisting of 39 widely spaced holes and a total of just less than 10,000 feet using sonic drilling technology. 25 holes were drilled in the ‘A’ program, 14 holes in the ‘B’ program. For this program, holes were drilled to a maximum depth of 400’. The sonic drilling resulted in continuous sample material, therefore providing an improved representation of each drill interval. Samples were sent to Arrakis and AuRIC for analysis under chain of custody protocols.
A follow up drilling program was initiated in Q2 of 2009 to delineate mineralized zones and further define the extent of gold and silver mineralization potential in the project area. 58 holes, for a total of 15,270 feet, were drilled as a follow up to the ~10,000 feet drilled in 2008. Sample intervals were changed from 10’ to 20’ because of the homogeneity of the sample material. Again, the drill material was stored in polyethylene bags in the onsite core facility. Samples were submitted to AuRIC for caustic fusion analysis under chain of custody protocols. In addition, 211 clay samples were taken at various depths for density determinations.
In 2010, we drilled 28 holes in the North Sand Zone and 147 short holes in the permitted mine clay zone. As the sand zones are the focus of the technical program, the samples from the clay zone drilling have been inventoried and will be analyzed later.
To date, 34 holes have been drilled in the North Sand Zone. Analyses of drill samples have outlined a deposit covering approximately 0.67 square miles, to a depth of 200 feet beneath the surface of the Columbus Marsh Basin, with a weight mean average head grade of 0.038 opt AuE. We estimate the drill-inferred tonnage of mineralized sands within this zone at approximately 145 million (MM) tons. In addition, the drill-inferred tonnage of the mineralized sands within the South Sand Zone, to a depth of 100 feet, is currently estimated at approximately 29 MM tons of 0.041 opt AuE, resulting in a total of 174MM tons. Previous drilling has indicated that the mineralized sands in both North and South Sand Zones extend below 200 feet in depth.
2012 Drill Program
We have been granted the permit for our 2012 drill program, which will consist of 31 drill holes to a depth of at least 200 feet. The drill program will cover an additional 0.48 square miles adjacent to the North Sand Zone. The goal of this program is to expand the North and South Sand Zones. Following completion of the 2012 drill program, the Company will re-evaluate the boundaries of the sand zones, the quantity of the tonnage contained therein and the quality of the resource definition within these areas.
MINERALIZATION MODEL
Geologic Model
The lakebed clay varies in color, moisture content, texture, and organic content. Because of the wide drill hole spacing, it is not possible to correlate between individual clay units. At present, the clay will not be sub-classified and will be referred to as a single unit. Average dry bulk density of the clay, taken from the 200+ samples, is 1.198 tons/yd3 (1.423 tonnes/m3).
Along the western edge of the project area, alluvial material occurs as ‘fans’ which descend beneath the clay toward the center of the basin. The depth to this sand was gridded and contoured. This information is very useful for determining where this sand unit might be encountered during future drilling. In general, changes in sand depth parallel the basin. The average dry bulk density of the sands is 1.165 ton/yd³ (1.383 tonnes/m³). The sand zone averages 91.4% -1/4” as determined from 258 screen analysis of sonic drill samples from 0-200 ft. depth.
Mineralization Model
Results from the drill program in the North Sand Zone were used by us to estimate the drill-inferred tonnage of mineralized sands within this zone at approximately 145 million (MM) tons, with a weight mean average gold equivalent (AuE) head grade of 0.038 ounces per ton (opt). In addition, the drill-inferred tonnage of the mineralized sands within the South Sand Zone, to a depth of 100 feet, is currently estimated at approximately 29 MM tons of 0.041 opt AuE, resulting in a total of 174MM tons. Previous drilling has indicated that the mineralized sands in both North and South Sand Zones extend below 200 feet in depth. All results are reported in total Au equivalent (AuE), calculated using the formula Au(opt)+0.025Ag(opt)=AuE(opt) (based on $/oz Au:$/oz Ag=40:1).
Zone Million tons (short) Sample Grade (AuE opt)
North Sand Zone 0.038
South Sand Zone 0.041
TOTAL 0.039
The North Sand Zone is comprised of mostly sand, but also contains some silt and clays. The South Sand Zone is also in the sand unit, with consistently high assays. Even though the South Sand Zone is two dimensional, it is highly likely that these zones are contemporaneous and this southern zone is of exploration significance.
We had also previously identified 5 mineralized zones totaling approximately 230 million tons of material within the clays of the Columbus Basin. These areas are currently not the focus of our technical program due to their high clay/carbon content and more difficult metallurgy.
Analytical Methodology
All reported drill results were determined by caustic fusion assay and analysis of the extracted metal for gold and silver. Sampling and analyses were conducted by qualified independent professionals, under chain of custody procedures, and included blind labeling of samples, the insertion of blanks, standard reference material and repeats to ensure the quality of results.
Independent metallurgists engaged in extensive research and testing before they determined the best pyrometallurgical and hydrometallurgical methodologies for extracting gold and silver from the organic carbon rich clays and sand at the Columbus Project.
Caustic fusion is a standard pyrometallurgical method used for rock dissolution and subsequent analysis. A caustic fusion protocol was selected as the preferred method for head grade assays, because it has proven to be very effective in liberating and collecting gold and silver, as metal-in-hand, from the Columbus organic carbon rich clays. Independent work has shown that conventional fire assaying, another standard pyrometallurgical method, extracts extremely low gold and silver values from the Columbus Project material.
Thiosulphate leaching is a relatively new, environmentally friendly, hydrometallurgical method for extracting gold and silver from ores. Again, independent work has shown that thiosulphate leaching, followed by resin or carbon extraction, has been very effective in bench and pilot scale tests for the extraction of gold and silver, as “metal-in-hand”, at the Columbus Project. Aqua regia and cyanide leaching tests of head ore proved ineffective and resulted in extremely low gold and silver extraction. It is the thiosulphate leach system that is currently being tested onsite to determine the feasibility of leaching both the clay and sand deposits.
As mentioned previously, the entombment of the precious metals in the organic carbon and clays at the Columbus Project can cause problems of detection by many methods of analysis. In January 2010, the Nevada Bureau of Mines and Geology (NBMG) reported they found no economically significant amounts of gold and silver in five surface samples from the Columbus Salt Marsh using a variety of assay methods. These results are consistent with the values initially found by our independent consultants using similar methods. However, further research and testing led to the development of a caustic fusion protocol, a thiosulphate leach process and, more recently, a gravity concentrating circuit that has extracted economically significant values of gold and silver as “metal-in-hand,” from samples where conventional fire assay, aqua regia leach and cyanide leach of head ore extracted very low values.
The best assay of any geological sample is by quantifying the extracted metal. That is why we and our consultants rely only on extracted gold and silver as “metal-in-hand” for reporting assay results. The caustic fusion and thiosulphate leach provide “metal-in-hand” on head ore as do caustic fusion, thiosulphate leach and cyanide leach on gravity concentrates. Using these assay methods, together with the quality assurances and quality controls of the drill program, we and our consultants are confident of the results that we have reported from head ore and concentrate samples.
MINING AND RECOVERY METHODOLOGY
The Company currently has a production permit for the Columbus Project. The production permit allows for the extraction of precious metals and the production of calcium carbonate on the 378 acre site (320 acre mine site and 58-acre mill site) at a mine rate of up to 792,000 tons per year. During the period from 2008-2011 the Company developed a dredge mine, constructed a pilot plant and began operations to develop and prove the extractive metallurgy for the Columbus Project. Initial metallurgical testing was primarily focused on extracting gold and silver from the clay material. As previously reported, problems with organic material interfered with the extraction of precious metals from the clays, and this has led us to focus our current efforts on extraction of the precious metals from the sands.
The Company recently announced the results of tests completed by AuRIC Metallurgical Laboratories of Salt Lake City, Utah. AuRIC completed three bulk tests (194 lb., 220 lb., 3,000 lb.) on sand material collected from a single site within the North Sand Zone using a new gravity concentration circuit. The weight mean average results on the tests were: 13:1 concentration ratio; 121% Au recovery; and 42% Ag recovery (0.100 opt AuE2, 0.084 opt Au and 0.642 opt Ag).
The purpose of these bulk tests is to determine the net recovery of gold and silver from the Columbus sands. The focus has been on optimizing the new gravity concentration circuit developed specifically for these sands. Readers are cautioned not to place undue weight on the metal grades reported in these tests. The recent gravity concentration tests were completed on material that was probably significantly higher in head grade than the overall average head grade of the North Sand Zone. The area from which these samples were taken may represent an anomaly within the North Sand Zone and may not be representative of the entire zone. The head grade of the sands tested has varied, and will probably continue to vary, at each sample location. The varied head grade of the sands has little relevance, because the contained gold and silver has the same concentrating characteristics. Based on the limited bulk test results, to date, we can make no new assumptions or assertions regarding the overall head grade of the North Sand Zone. Additional gravity concentration tests on bulk samples from different sites within the North Sand Zone are planned.
These test results all exceeded our 75% gold extraction rate goals for the Columbus Project. These gravity concentration tests also indicated that more gold was extracted by leaching concentrates derived from large head samples (88,330 g - 1,363,636 g) than was predicted by the many caustic fusion assays performed on small head samples (5 g each). These results are consistent with the ‘nugget effect’ common in alluvial deposits such as those discovered at the Columbus Project and continue to indicate the need to process large samples and extract the gold and silver in order to best determine the head grade.
AuRIC is currently completing the metallurgical tests and design work in support of the new gravity concentration circuit to be installed at the on-site pilot plant at the Columbus Project. To date, the test work at AuRIC has focused on optimization and scale-up of the capacity of the gravity concentration circuit. The reliability of this new concentrating circuit continues to be verified by the extraction of limited quantities of gold and silver during the course of this work, as previously disclosed.
____________________________________
2 AuE opt = Au opt + Ag/40 opt
We are currently installing the framework for upgrades to the Columbus Project on-site pilot plant, and we will move forward with the upgrades upon completion of AuRIC’s tests. After the installation and performance assessment of the on-site gravity concentration circuit, we will commence the bulk testing of up to 2,000 tons of sand material.
If the operation of the pilot plant proves, to our satisfaction, that the Columbus Project is economically viable, we may seek to expand the production permitted area, reconfigure the production process and/or construct additional production circuits within the mill site to increase production capacity. The production model for the Columbus Project is anticipated to be a low cost, high volume mining operation.
Readers are cautioned that, although we believe that the results of our exploration activities to date have been sufficiently positive to proceed with the installation and operation of a pilot processing facility at the Columbus Project millsite, we have not yet established any probable or proven reserves. Additional exploration work will be required before probable or proven reserves can be established. There are no assurances that the results of our pre-feasibility and technical programs will result in a decision to enter into commercial production.
THE RED MOUNTAIN PROJECT
The Red Mountain Project is a potential gold, silver and tungsten project that consists of 60 mineral claims covering approximately 13,729 acres, all located in San Bernardino County and Kern County, California. Title to these mineral claims is currently recorded in the names of a number of individuals who, together, make up a mining syndicate known as Red Mountain Mining (“RMM”). We have been notified that some of the claims making up the Red Mountain Project may conflict with other existing mineral claims and other property rights covering the location of the project. We intend to work with RMM in order to resolve these issues.
RIGHTS TO THE RED MOUNTAIN PROJECT
On July 20, 2011, we entered into an amended and restated option agreement for the Red Mountain Project (the “Amended Red Mountain Option”). The Amended Red Mountain Option replaces the Red Mountain Letter Agreement under which we had previously earned a 30.6% undivided interest in the Red Mountain Project. Under the terms of the Amended Red Mountain Option, we have the option (the “Buyout Option”) to buyout all of the optionor’s interest in the Red Mountain Project by paying to the optionor $200,000 in cash and (i) if the Buyout Option is exercised on or before March 31, 2012, issuing to the optionor $2,800,000 worth of our common stock, or (ii) if the Buyout Option is exercised after March 31, 2012, issuing to the optionor $3,800,000 worth of our common stock. If we exercise the Buyout Option, of which there is no assurance, we will own 100% of the Red Mountain Project. We have until December 31, 2016 to exercise the Buyout Option.
To maintain the Buyout Option, we must (i) pay the optionor the sum of $8,000 per month, and (ii) spend a total of $600,000 on the Red Mountain Project. For every $2,000 that we spend on the Red Mountain Project, we will earn an additional 0.1% undivided interest, up to an additional 29.4% undivided interest (which would bring our total undivided interest in the Red Mountain Project to 60.0%) . On execution of the Amended Red Mountain Option, we prepaid $35,000 to the optionor to be applied against the monthly payment amounts.
The project acreage of all claims under the Red Mountain Option Agreement now totals 13,729.
LOCATION AND ACCESS
The Red Mountain Project is located at the base of Red Mountain, which is 27 miles south of Ridgecrest in San Bernardino County and Kern County, California, approximately 75 miles northeast of Los Angeles. The Red Mountain Project can be accessed by using a gravel road that bisects the project from northwest to southeast.
The Red Mountain Project does not contain any useable infrastructure other than a water well.
Figure 6: Location of the Red Mountain Project
HISTORY
The Red Mountain Project is east of and adjacent to the Rand Mining District, initially discovered in 1894. The Rand Mining District was mined off and on until just recently for gold, silver and tungsten. The majority of the mines in the area consisted of small independent operations. There is currently no commercial mining occurring on the Red Mountain Project site.
GEOLOGY
The area surrounding the Red Mountain Project is highly mineralized with recorded production of gold, silver and tungsten.
Nanominerals had Arrakis review the Red Mountain Project, including the existing reports on work previously done by RMM. RMM has excavated over 100 test pits at the project site and has gravity concentrated the bulk samples taken from these pits. The results of RMM’s tests show values ranging from less than 0.01 troy ounces of gold per ton to over 1.00 troy ounces of gold per ton. Those test results reportedly show an average of 0.06 opt. Arrakis reported that the grades were similar to other grades that have been reported in the area on similar mine sites.
Based on their review of the existing reports and a field visit to the Red Mountain Project site, Arrakis has recommended that we proceed with an exploration program to verify the reported gold grades in RMM’s studies and to test the recoverability in order to assess the economic viability of the Red Mountain Project.
CURRENT EXPLORATION
Our exploration and development program for the Red Mountain Project currently consists of a drilling and sampling program. Currently the Red Mountain Project is not in active development. We have set a budget of $100,000 for the Red Mountain Project for the 12 months ending December 31, 2012.
ITEM 3.