ITEM 2. PROPERTIES.
We currently lease office space located at Suite 100, 2441 W. Horizon Ridge Parkway, Henderson, NV 89052 at a rate of $4,625 per month. The lease terms expired on August 31, 2008, and we continue to rent the existing space on a month-to-month basis.
We currently own an interest in, or rights to, two mineral projects that we refer to as the Columbus Project and the Red Mountain Project.
THE COLUMBUS PROJECT
The Columbus Project is a sediment hosted gold and silver exploration project located in western Nevada. It is comprised of 296 mining and millsite claims which cover 43,178 acres and an additional 80 acres of private land, for a total of 43,258 acres. We currently own a 100% stake in 149 of the claims (which we refer to as the “CSM Claims”), with rights to an additional 147 peripheral claims (which we refer to as the “DDB Claims”).
LOCATION
The mineral claims that make up the Columbus Project are located in the Columbus Salt Marsh, Esmeralda County, Nevada, northwest of Coaldale Junction, approximately 50 miles west of Tonopah (Fig. 1) halfway between Las Vegas and Reno. Access is from the junction of US6 and Nevada Highway 95, approximately 10 miles north of Coaldale Junction, to a gravel road westerly to the mill site and to the remains of the town of Columbus.
The Columbus Salt Marsh is an enclosed basin and is a dry lake bed for the majority of the year. All surface drainage from a surrounding 360 square mile area flows into the Columbus Salt Marsh.
TITLE AND OWNERSHIP RIGHTS TO THE CSM CLAIMS AND THE DDB CLAIMS
The CSM Claims are wholly owned by Columbus S.M., LLC (“CSM”). CSM was a wholly owned subsidiary of Columbus Minerals Inc., which is a wholly owned subsidiary of Ireland Inc. The DDB Claims are wholly owned by a mining syndicate known as the DDB Syndicate. Lawrence E. Chizmar, Jr., a former member of our Board of Directors (and a former director of Columbus Brine Inc. (“CBI”), the former owner of CSM and the CSM claims) and a limited liability company controlled by Douglas D.G. Birnie, our President and Chief Executive Officer, and a member of our Board of Directors, are each the owners of a 1/8 interest in the DDB Syndicate. The remaining members of the DDB Syndicate are made up of the former officers and directors of CBI, the brother of a former officer and director of CBI, and certain affiliates of Nanominerals Corp. (“Nanominerals”).
Nanominerals is a significant shareholder in our Company. Mr. Birnie also owns a 3.5% interest in Nanominerals. The DDB Claims were located by the DDB Syndicate in February 2007, prior to Mr. Birnie’s, Nanominerals’ or Mr. Chizmar’s involvement with our Company. Mr. Birnie also acquired his interest in Nanominerals prior to his involvement with our Company.
We acquired our interest in the CSM Claims and the DDB Claims from Nanominerals pursuant to an assignment by Nanominerals of its rights to both the Columbus Project and the Red Mountain Project under the terms of two letter agreements (the “Columbus Letter Agreement” and the “Red Mountain Letter Agreement,” respectively). In August 2007, Nanominerals completed the assignment of its rights and interests under both the Columbus Letter Agreement and the Red Mountain Letter Agreement to us, in consideration for which we:
(a)
issued an aggregate of 30,000,000 shares of our common stock to Nanominerals and certain business associates of Nanominerals (including 1,200,000 shares to Robert D. McDougal, our current Chief Financial Officer, Treasurer and a member of our Board of Directors);
(b)
granted Nanominerals a 5% royalty on any net smelter returns from either of the Columbus Project or the Red Mountain Project, or any other mineral projects that Nanominerals may assign or transfer to us in the future;
(c)
assumed all of Nanominerals obligations under the Columbus Letter Agreement and the Red Mountain Letter Agreement; and
(d)
agreed to reimburse Nanominerals for any properly documented expenditures made by it on either the Columbus Project or the Red Mountain Project.
In addition to the consideration paid by us, Lorrie Ann Archibald, then our Chief Executive Officer, Treasurer and sole director, and our principal shareholder, sold to Nanominerals 18,200,000 shares of our common stock, being all of the shares of our common stock owned by Ms. Archibald at that time, for an aggregate of $45,500. Mr. Birnie was appointed as our Chief Executive Officer, President and Secretary, and Mr. McDougal was appointed as our Chief Financial Officer pursuant to the terms our agreement with Nanominerals.
By December 2007, under the terms of the Columbus Letter Agreement, we had earned a 15% operating interest in the Columbus Project by:
(a)
paying a total $24,000 per month split amongst CSM, John T. Arkoosh (the former President and a former director of CBI) and William Maghan (a former director of CBI) until December 31, 2007; and
(b)
spending a total of $3,000,000 on examining, testing, exploring or developing the Columbus Project before December 31, 2007 (the “CP Expenditures”).
In February 2008, we increased our ownership of the Columbus Project to 100% by merging CBI with and into our wholly owned subsidiary incorporated for the sole purpose of acquiring CBI, CBI Acquisition, Inc. Subsequent to the completion of the merger, CBI Acquisition, Inc.’s name was changed to Columbus Minerals Inc. To complete the merger, we issued to the former stockholders of CBI an aggregate of 10,440,087 shares of our common stock and share purchase warrants to acquire an additional 5,220,059 shares of our common stock. The warrants issued are exercisable at a price of $2.39 per share and expire on February 19, 2013. After August 19, 2010, if our common stock trades at an average price of 150% of the exercise price of the warrants over a period of 20 consecutive trading days, than we may accelerate the expiration date to a date that is 30 days after the date that we send notice of our intention to exercise the acceleration right. The warrants issued to the former stockholders of CBI provide the holder with a cashless exercise right. In addition, we agreed to honor the terms of an option previously granted by CBI to one of its former stockholders, and to extend that option to June 29, 2010. As a result, this person may exercise an option to purchase 79,719 shares of our common stock at a price of $1.36 per share on or before June 29, 2010.
After completing the acquisition of CBI, we acquired CBI’s rights under the terms of a mining lease that CBI entered into with the DDB Syndicate in November 2007 (the “DDB Agreement”). The DDB Agreement provides us with a 5 year lease on the DDB Claims, ending on November 29, 2012, with an option to purchase the DDB Claims at anytime during the lease period. During the year ended December 31, 2008, we paid the DDB Syndicate $130,000 under the terms of the DDB Agreement, and we must pay the DDB Syndicate rental payments of $30,000 per year, payable on June 30, 2009, 2010 and 2011 respectively in order to maintain our lease rights. Under the option rights provided under the DDB Agreement, we may purchase the DDB Claims by either:
(a)
paying the DDB Syndicate the purchase price of $400,000, less any rental payments previously made prior to exercise of the option right; or
(b)
paying the DDB Syndicate $10, plus granting the DDB Syndicate a royalty of 2% of net smelter returns on the DDB Claims.
ACCESS AND INFRASTRUCTURE
The Columbus Project contains an existing mill site with power generator sets and an onsite fresh water well. Water used for processing is available from existing wells located on the surrounding basin (the “Columbus Basin”). There is also a high voltage grid located at the Candelaria Mines, approximately three miles from the Columbus Project.
Permits have been obtained for the extraction of precious metals and the production of calcium carbonate from an area of interest consisting of approximately 378 acres, including millsite, roads and mineable acreage.
HISTORY
The Columbus area has had mining activity for over 100 years. Silver was discovered in 1863 in the area of the Candelaria Mine, to the northwest of the Columbus Basin. These deposits were mined intermittently by different companies through 1999, producing large quantities of silver and minor gold. Salt was first mined in the Columbus Salt Marsh in 1864, followed by borax in 1871. Precious metals were thought to exist in the basin sediments as early as the late 19th century but no production is documented. Mining ceased in the Columbus Marsh around the beginning of the 20th century.
The Columbus Project is located in an area that has historically been known as a well mineralized region. A silver and gold mining operation known as the Candelaria Mine is located approximately five miles northwest of the Columbus Project. The Round Mountain project is a gold operation located approximately 60 miles northeast of the Columbus Project. The Clayton Valley Brine Project, a lithium extraction project, is located approximately 25 miles southeast of the Columbus Project.
GEOLOGY
The Columbus Project covers a flat enclosed basin with a surface composed of salt deposits and is primarily devoid of vegetation. Older sediments, which host the silver deposits of Candelaria, underlie several sequences of volcanic rocks, with the youngest being the 15Ma Gilbert Andesite. The region has undergone older thrust faulting, which hosts the Candelaria deposits, and later extensional faulting as a result of movement along the Walker Lane. The Columbus Basin is a one of several structural basins in the region caused by right lateral movement along the Walker Lane and the subsequent clockwise rotation and oblique extensional down dropping of the blocks within this structural domain.
EXPLORATION AND DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITIES CONDUCTED ON THE COLUMBUS PROJECT TO DATE
Surface Sampling Program and Initial Metallurgical Work
Near surface basin sediment samples were taken in late 2006 and early 2007 and analyzed by Arrakis Inc. (“Arrakis”), an independent engineering lab based in Denver, Colorado. Sixty four surface samples, four shallow boring samples, and a bulk sample were taken and analyzed using a four acid total digestion and atomic absorption analysis. Samples were analyzed for Au, Ag, Cu, and Fe. This work led to the discovery of a 5,000 acre surface gold anomaly in the northwestern part of the basin. This gold anomaly is the primary focus of current exploration and development work. The Permitted Mine Area (320 acres) is situated in the north end of this zone.
Drilling Program
An 18-hole hollow stem auger drill program was undertaken in Q3 2007 in the Permitted Mine Area to establish mineral potential at depth. Samples were 18” in length, taken every 10’ with a split spoon sampler. Material was analyzed by Arrakis using a 3-acid modified version of aqua regia. A split was analyzed by CBI staff at the onsite facility using a standard fire assay and it was found that standard fire assay was ineffective. Repeated firing of the slag showed that various amounts of the metals remained in the slag after each firing.
Encouraging results warranted a second drill program, managed by independent consultants McEwen Geological LLC (“McEwen”), which took place in Q2-Q3 2008, consisting of 39 widely spaced holes and a total of just less than 10,000 feet using sonic drilling technology. Twenty five holes were drilled in the ‘A’ program, 14 holes in the ‘B’ program. For this program, holes were drilled to a maximum depth of 400’. The sonic drilling resulted in continuous sample material, therefore providing an improved representation of each drill interval. Samples were sent to Arrakis and AuRIC Metallurgical Laboratories (“AuRIC”) for analysis under chain of custody protocols.
A follow up drilling program was initiated in Q2 of 2009 to delineate mineralized zones and further define the extent of gold and silver mineralization potential in the project area. Fifty eight holes, for a total of 15,270 feet, were drilled as a follow up to the ~10,000 feet drilled in 2008. Sample intervals were changed from 10’ to 20’ because of the homogeneity of the sample material. Again, the drill material was stored in polyethylene bags in the onsite core facility. Samples were submitted to AuRIC for caustic fusion analysis under chain of custody protocols. In addition, 211 clay samples were taken at various depths for density determinations.
MODELING RESULTS
The following discussion is based upon geologic and mineralization modeling prepared for us by McEwen.
Geologic Model
The lakebed clay varies in color, moisture content, texture, and organic content. Because of the wide drill hole spacing, it is not possible to correlate between individual clay units. At present, the clay will not be sub-classified and will be referred to as a single unit. Average dry bulk density of the clay, taken from the 200+ samples, is 1.423 tonnes/m3.
Along the western edge of the project area, alluvial material occurs as ‘fans’ which descend beneath the clay toward the center of the basin. The depth to this sand was gridded and contoured. This information is very useful for determining where this sand unit might be encountered during future drilling. In general, changes in sand depth parallel the basin.
Mineralization Model
Results from the computer generated mineralization model developed by McEwen were used to determine zones of potentially economic metal concentration. Seven distinct zones were identified for further evaluation. These zones will be prioritized by us for further exploration and development based on their spatial distribution, overall estimated metal content, and proximity to the existing facilities. All results are reported in total Au equivalent (AuE), calculated using the formula Au(opt)+0.013Ag(opt)=AuE(opt) (based on $900/oz Au and $12/oz Ag). A head grade cutoff value of 0.03opt was chosen based on recent metallurgical results from AuRIC.
Zone Million tons (short) Sample Grade (AuE opt)
S North 83.5
0.038
S South 29.5
0.035
A West 44.5
0.042
A East 42.0
0.037
B Central 63.4
0.045
C West 24.5
0.037
C East 56.5
0.042
TOTAL 343.9 0.040
Of all seven zones identified to date, four are laterally continuous and three are two dimensional. Zones S South, B Central, and C West are two dimensional and the confidence for mineralization estimation is less than for the other zones. The most favorable zone is the S North zone. This zone is a mixed sand/clay zone. The assay results for the sand are for the most part >0.02opt, with a high value of 0.055opt AuE. Zone S South is also in the sand unit, with consistently high assay. Even though zone S South is two dimensional, it is highly likely that these zones are contemporaneous and this southern zone is of exploration significance.
Zone A West could be thought of as an eastern extension of the S North zone. It is comprised of clay and is two dimensional with lateral extension to the south side. It appears that the trend of the blocks >0.03opt dips to the east, with the anomalous values becoming deeper. This is, however, a function of the vertical exaggeration and just an expression of the natural topography. It is presently thought that this zone is along the trend of an inferred northwesterly subsurface structure. This zone is distinguished from the S North zone by the absence of sand above 100’ depth.
Zone A East is laterally continuous, with a void between the southern and northern blocks. It is of lower concentrations and shows moderate potential. Zones B Central and C West are both two dimensional, with no lateral extension. At this time, not enough information exists to determine if these zones are of potentially sufficient concentration, thus placing them of lowest priority.
Zone C East is, like A West, laterally continuous in a single block to the north. It contains a similar average concentration, larger tonnage potential, and is open to the east and south. This makes it of interest for continued exploration. However, because of its location and distance from the existing infrastructure, it is lower in priority than the A West zone.
2010 Drill Program
Our 2010 drill program is being designed to determine the grade and tonnage consistency between the drill holes in the mineralized zones of most economic interest with the goal of upgrading the mineralization estimates for inclusion in the project pre-feasibility study. Drilling is expected to be focused around the Zone S North, Zone A West and Zone S South areas based on our working geologic model, average assay results within those areas and the proximity of those areas to our Permitted Mine Area. We expect to begin the process of obtaining exploratory drill permits in Q2 of 2010.
Analytical Methodology
All reported drill results were determined by caustic fusion assay and analysis of the extracted metal for gold and silver. Sampling and analyses were conducted by qualified independent professionals, under chain of custody procedures, and included blind labeling of samples, the insertion of blanks, standard reference material and repeats to ensure the quality of results.
Independent metallurgists engaged in extensive research and testing before they determined the best pyrometallurgical and hydrometallurgical methodologies for extracting gold and silver from the organic carbon rich clays at the Columbus Project.
Caustic fusion is a standard pyrometallurgical method used for rock dissolution and subsequent analysis. A caustic fusion protocol was selected as the preferred method for head grade assays, because it has proven to be very effective in liberating and collecting gold and silver, as metal-in-hand, from the Columbus organic carbon rich clays. Independent work has shown that conventional fire assaying, another standard pyrometallurgical method, extracts extremely low gold and silver values from the Columbus Project material.
Thiosulphate leaching is a relatively new, environmentally friendly, hydrometallurgical method for extracting gold and silver from ores. Again, independent work has shown that thiosulphate leaching, followed by resin or carbon extraction, has been very effective in bench and pilot scale tests for the extraction of gold and silver, as “metalin-hand”, at the Columbus Project. Aqua regia and cyanide leaching tests proved ineffective and resulted in extremely low gold and silver extraction. It is the thiosulphate leach system that is currently being installed onsite to prove the feasibility of the Columbus Project.
As mentioned previously, the entombment of the precious metals in the organic carbon and clays at the Columbus Project can cause problems of detection by many methods of analysis. The Nevada Bureau of Mines and Geology (NBMG) recently reported they found no economically significant amounts of gold and silver in five surface samples from the Columbus Salt Marsh using a variety of assay methods. These results are consistent with the values initially found by our independent consultants using similar methods. However, further research and testing led to the development of a caustic fusion protocol, a thiosulphate leach process and, more recently, a modified fire assay method that did extract economically significant values of gold and silver as “metal-in-hand”, from samples where conventional fire assay, aqua regia leach and cyanide leach extracted very low values.
The best assay of any geological sample is by quantifying the extracted metal. That is why we and our consultants rely only on extracted gold and silver as “metal-in-hand” for reporting assay results. Both the caustic fusion and the thiosulphate leach provide “metal-in-hand” and, together with the quality assurances and quality controls of the drill program, we and our consultants are confident of the results that we have reported.
Pilot and Bench Scale Leach Test Results
In the first quarter of 2009, AuRIC conducted a pilot scale leach test on 1,738 pounds of material extracted from our Permitted Mine Area by Arrakis under chain of custody protocols. No mineral processing operations, such as crushing, grinding, drying or screening, were performed on the sample prior to leaching. The material was analyzed using a caustic fusion technique and reported head grades of 0.055 ounces per ton (opt) gold (Au) and 0.520 opt silver (Ag). The material was then leached, resulting in the extraction of 0.047 opt Au and 0.464 opt Ag into solution. The precious metals were subsequently collected on resins and processed to produce Au and Ag bullion, for a net extraction of 0.038 opt Au and 0.385 opt Ag. This represents leach extraction of 86.2% of Au into solution and 69.1% of Au recovered as metal. This also represents leach extraction of 89.2% of Ag into solution and 74% of Ag recovered as metal. The overall extraction was 0.043 opt AuE. Upon completion of the test, the precious metal beads were delivered to us.
In the second quarter of 2009, AuRIC conducted bench scale leach tests on composite drill samples taken from Zone B Central by McEwen. The tested materials were composited from previously submitted and analyzed drill samples taken during our 2008 drilling program. The results of these bench scale leach tests were consistent with the results obtained from the bulk leach test conducted on materials extracted from the Permitted Mine Area in the first quarter of 2009.
In the third quarter of 2009, AuRIC conducted additional bench scale leach tests and a pilot scale leach test on samples taken from Zone B Central by McEwen. The bulk materials for the pilot scale test assayed 0.070 opt Au and 0.302 opt Ag, or 0.074 opt AuE. The pilot scale leach test on those material extracted 0.066 opt Au and 0.181 opt Ag, or 0.068 opt AuE. The extracted precious metals were then collected on activated carbon and processed to produce Au and Ag bullion for a net extraction of 0.060 opt Au and 0.168 opt Ag, or 0.062 opt AuE. This represents leach extraction of 92.4% of AuE into solution and 84.1% of AuE as metal in hand.
All bench scale leach tests were conducted on composite samples taken from the Permitted Mine Area or the 2008 and 2009 drill programs. AuRIC created 5.5 pound composites for each of the mineralized intervals tested. The composites were then assayed using a caustic fusion technique, and then leached. The leach results indicate that the mineralogy of the Permitted Mine Area and Zone B Central are consistent with each other.
Parameter / Zone
Test
Size
(lbs)
Head
Grade
(opt AuE) AuE
Recovered
into Solution
(opt)
% Recovered
into Solution AuE
Recovered
as Metal
(opt)1
% Recovered
as Metal
Permitted Mine Area 1,738 0.062 0.053 85.9% 0.043 69.6%
S South - S1B Composite 5.5
0.041 0.037 89.9% n/a
n/a
B Central - S9B Composite 5.5
0.074 0.066 89.8% n/a
n/a
B Central - S12B Composite 5.5
0.057 0.046 81.3% n/a
n/a
B Central - S12B Composite 5.5
0.057 0.054 94.0% n/a
n/a
B Central - S9B 5.5
0.074 0.055 74.7% n/a
n/a
B Central - S9B 1.8
0.074 0.058 78.7% n/a
n/a
B Central - S9B 2,000 0.074 0.068 92.4% 0.062 84.1%
We are continuing to work on optimizing the leach and extraction process in order to maximize precious metal extraction rates.
Pilot Plant Installation and Surface Dredge Operations
Our pilot production plant was installed in the Permitted Mine Area by Arrakis is October 2008. The precious metals leach extraction circuit was recently added to the onsite pilot plant and is currently being tested and optimized. The pilot production process consists of a pilot scale production and processing circuit that we are using to test the commercial viability of mining and extracting precious metals the Columbus Project. We currently have a production permit from Nevada Division of Environmental Protection that allows us to produce calcium carbonate and extract precious metals at the Permitted Mine Area at a rate of up to 792,000 tons per year.
__________________________
1 Bench Scale Tests are too small to be recovered as metal with resins or activated carbon.
We are currently using a low cost surface dredge mining method at the Permitted Mine Area. The clays are mined by dredge and handled as a slurry throughout the production process. Once the clays have been slurried, we use thiosulfate leaching and carbon-in-pulp for extraction of the precious metals. This mining process has, to date, proven to be very successful and is our preferred method of mining as the cost per ton is low. The final extraction method is expected to involve leaching chemicals to recover the minerals from the materials. In March 2010, we completed the installation of the leach circuit. The metallurgical data generated from operating the leach plant will be used in the pre-feasibility study for the project.
Readers are cautioned that, although we believe that the results of our exploration activities to date have been sufficiently positive to proceed with the installation and operation of a pilot processing facility at the Columbus Project millsite, we have not yet established any probable or proven reserves. Additional exploration work will be required before probable or proven reserves can be established. There are no assurances that the results of our pre-feasibility and technical programs will result in a decision to enter into commercial production.
THE RED MOUNTAIN PROJECT
The Red Mountain Project is a potential gold, silver and tungsten project that consists of 60 mineral claims covering approximately 7,500 acres, all located in San Bernardino County and Kern County, California. Title to these mineral claims is currently recorded in the names of a number of individuals who, together, make up a mining syndicate known as Red Mountain Mining (“RMM”). We have been notified that some of the claims making up the Red Mountain Project may conflict with other existing mineral claims and other property rights covering the location of the project. We intend to work with RMM to in order to resolve these issues.
RIGHTS TO THE RED MOUNTAIN PROJECT
We acquired our rights to the Red Mountain Project on August 14, 2007, pursuant to an assignment to us by Nanominerals of its rights and interests under the Red Mountain Letter Agreement between it and RMM. For a description of the consideration paid by us to Nanominerals in exchange for the assignment of its rights under the Red Mountain Letter Agreement, as well as its rights under the Columbus Letter Agreement, please see our description of the Columbus Project, provided above, and below at “Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence.”
The Red Mountain Letter Agreement provides that we are to:
(a)
pay $5,000 per month to RMM until December 31, 2011;
(b)
spend a total of $200,000 by December 31, 2008 on examining, testing, exploring or developing the Red Mountain Project (the “RMP Phase 1 Expenditures”); and
(c)
spend a total of $1,000,000 by December 31, 2011 on examining, testing, exploring or developing the Red Mountain Project (the “RMP Phase 2 Expenditures”).
For each $100,000 spent by us on the RMP Phase 1 or RMP Phase 2 Expenditures, we will earn a 5% interest in the Red Mountain Project (or a proportionate fractional interest for expenditures in denominations of less than $100,000). We will earn a maximum 60% interest in the Red Mountain Project if we spend the full $1,200,000 of the RMP Phase 1 and RMP Phase 2 Expenditures by the deadlines set out above.
In addition, at any time, we may acquire a 100% interest in the Red Mountain Project (the “RM Acquisition Rights”) by:
The Acquisition Price to be used to calculate the aggregate number of shares and share purchase warrants to be issued to RMM under the terms of the Red Mountain Letter Agreement will be the average closing price of our common stock during the 60 days prior to the acquisition date, provided, however, that the Acquisition Price shall not be lower than $0.25 and shall not be greater than $5.00.
As of December 31, 2009, the date of our most recently available financial statements, we had spent $619,292 on the Red Mountain Project, meaning that, as of December 31, 2009, we owned a 30.6% interest in the project.
LOCATION AND ACCESS
The Red Mountain Project is located at the base of Red Mountain, which is 27 miles south of Ridgecrest in San Bernardino County and Kern County, California, approximately 75 miles northeast of Los Angeles. The Red Mountain Project can be accessed by using a gravel road that bisects the project from northwest to southeast.
The Red Mountain Project does not contain any useable infrastructure other than a water well.
HISTORY
The Red Mountain Project is east of and adjacent to the Rand Mining District, initially discovered in 1894. The Rand Mining District was mined off and on until just recently for gold, silver and tungsten. The majority of the mines in the area consisted of small independent operations. There is currently no commercial mining occurring on the Red Mountain Project site.
GEOLOGY
The area surrounding the Red Mountain Project is highly mineralized with recorded production of gold, silver and tungsten.
Nanominerals had Arrakis review the Red Mountain Project, including the existing reports on work previously done by RMM. RMM has excavated over 100 test pits at the project site and has gravity concentrated the bulk samples taken from these pits. The results of RMM’s tests show values ranging from less than 0.01 troy ounces of gold per ton to over 1.00 troy ounces of gold per ton. Those test results reportedly show an average of 0.06 opt. Arrakis reported that the grades were similar to other grades that have been reported in the area on similar mine sites.
Based on their review of the existing reports and a field visit to the Red Mountain Project site, Arrakis has recommended that we proceed with an exploration program to verify the reported gold grades in RMM’s studies and to test the recoverability in order to assess the economic viability of the Red Mountain Project.
CURRENT EXPLORATION
Our exploration and development program for the Red Mountain Project currently consists of a drilling and sampling program. Currently the Red Mountain Project is not in active development. We have set a budget of $240,000 for the exploration and development program at Red Mountain in 2010. However this program is contingent on certain milestones being achieved at our lead project, the Columbus Project. We have reallocated funds originally budgeted towards the Red Mountain Project in order to provide us with maximum flexibility in achieving our technical milestones at our lead project.
ITEM 3.