ITEM 2. PROPERTIES.
We currently lease office space located at 2360 W. Horizon Ridge Parkway Suite 100, Henderson, NV 89052 at a rate of $5,057 per month.
We currently own an interest in, or rights to, one mineral project that we refer to as the Columbus Project.
THE COLUMBUS PROJECT
The Columbus Project is a sediment hosted gold and silver exploration project located in western Nevada. It is comprised of 466 unpatented placer federal mining and millsite claims on BLM land which cover 23,418 acres and an additional 80 acres of private land, for a total of 23,498 acres. It includes a permitted and operational pilot plant and mine site. We currently own a 100% stake in all 466 claims that make up the Columbus Project. Our current Area of Interest approximates 2,000 acres on the west side of our Project claims.
LOCATION
The mineral claims that make up the Columbus Project are located in the Columbus Salt Marsh, Esmeralda County, Nevada, northwest of Coaldale Junction, approximately 50 miles west of Tonopah (Fig. 1) halfway between Las Vegas and Reno. Access is from the junction of US6 and Nevada Highway 95, approximately 10 miles north of Coaldale Junction, to a gravel road westerly to the mill site and to the remains of the town of Columbus.
The Columbus Salt Marsh is an enclosed basin and is a dry lake bed for the majority of the year. All surface drainage from a surrounding 360 square mile area flows into the Columbus Salt Marsh.
TITLE AND OWNERSHIP RIGHTS TO THE CSM CLAIMS, IRELAND CLAIMS AND THE DDB CLAIM
Figure 2: Columbus Project Property Map
The Columbus Project is comprised of 466 unpatented placer federal mining and millsite claims on BLM land which cover 23,418 acres and an additional 80 acres of private land, for a total of 23,498 acres.
On August 31, 2014, we elected to allow 198 mineral claims that previously formed part of our Columbus Project mineral property to lapse by declining to pay the BLM main ntenance fees for the abandoned claims. The abandoned claims represented the eastern portion and the southernmost portions of the Columbus Project as previously constituted, and were not a significant focus of our exploration efforts. As originally constituted, the Columbus Project was comprised of 664 mineral claims covering approximately 50,538 acres, plus an additional 80 acres of private land, for a total of 50,618 acres.
We acquired our initial interest in 73 claims (which we refer to as the “CSM Claims”) and an additional 57 claims (which we refer to as the“DDB Claims”) in 2007 from Nanominerals pursuant to an assignment by Nanominerals of its rights to the Columbus Project. In February 2008 we acquired a 100% interest in the CSM claims by merging the previous owner of the CSM Claims, Columbus Brine Inc. (“CBI”) with and into our wholly owned subsidiary incorporated for the sole purpose of acquiring CBI, CBI Acquisition Inc. Upon completion of the merger, CBI Acquisition Inc. changed its name to Columbus Minerals Inc.
The DDB Claims were previously owned by a mining syndicate known as the DDB Syndicate. Douglas D.G. Birnie, our President and Chief Executive Officer and a member of our Board, is the owner of a 1/8 interest in the DDB Syndicate. The remaining members of the DDB Syndicate are made up of the former directors and officers of CBI (including one of our former directors), the brother of a former officer and director of CBI, and certain affiliates of Nanominerals Corp. (“Nanominerals”). Nanominerals is a significant shareholder in our Company.
Mr. Birnie also owns a 3.5% interest in Nanominerals. The DDB Claims were located by the DDB Syndicate in February 2007, prior to Mr. Birnie’s and Nanominerals’ involvement with our Company. Mr. Birnie also acquired his interest in Nanominerals prior to his involvement with our Company.
Our rights to the DDB Claims were held under the terms of a mining lease with the DDB Syndicate dated November 30, 2007 (the “DDB Agreement”). The DDB Agreement provided us with a five year lease on the DDB Claims, ending on November 29, 2012, with an option to purchase the DDB Claims at any time during the lease period. Under the option rights provided under the DDB Agreement, we had the right to purchase the DDB Claims at any time by either:
(a)
paying the DDB Syndicate the purchase price of $400,000 (with all previously made rental payments credited against such purchase price); or
(b)
paying the DDB Syndicate $10, plus granting the DDB Syndicate a royalty of 2% of net smelter returns on the DDB Claims.
On November 20, 2012, we elected to exercise the purchase option on the DDB Claims, paying the balance of $180,000 to the DDB Syndicate, being the purchase price of $400,000 less the $220,000 in rental payments previously made under the DDB Agreement.
An additional 336 claims (which we refer to as the “Ireland Claims”) were staked by us.
As of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we own a 100% interest in all of the CBI Claims, DDB Claims and Ireland Claims.
Each of the CSM, Ireland and DDB Claims are unpatented placer federal claims. In order to maintain these claims, we are required to pay annual maintenance fees to the US Bureau of Land and Minerals (the “BLM”) by September 1 of each year. The annual claim maintenance fees paid to the BLM for 2015 and 2014 claim years totaled $187,807 and $187,797 respectively. A summary of the Columbus Project Claims is included as an exhibit to our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed with the SEC on November 19, 2014.
ACCESS AND INFRASTRUCTURE
The Columbus Project contains an operational pilot plant, onsite laboratory, and living facilities with power supplied by generators and water from an onsite well. Water used for processing is available from existing wells located on the surrounding basin (the “Columbus Basin”). There is also a high voltage grid located near the Candelaria Mine, approximately three miles from the Columbus Project.
Permits have been obtained for the extraction of precious metals and the production of calcium carbonate from an area of approximately 380 acres, including millsite, roads and mineable acreage.
HISTORY
The Columbus area has had mining activity for over 100 years. Silver was discovered in 1863 in the area of the Candelaria Mine, to the northwest of the Columbus Basin. These deposits were mined intermittently by different companies through 1999, producing large quantities of silver and minor gold. Salt was first mined in the Columbus Salt Marsh in 1864, followed by borax in 1871. Precious metals were thought to exist in the basin sediments as early as the late 19th century but no production is documented. Mining ceased in the Columbus Marsh around the beginning of the 20th century.
The Columbus Project is located in an area that has historically been known as a well mineralized region. A silver and gold mining operation known as the Candelaria Mine is located approximately five miles northwest of the Columbus Project. The Round Mountain project is a gold operation located approximately 60 miles northeast of the Columbus Project. The Clayton Valley Brine Project, a lithium extraction project, is located approximately 25 miles southeast of the Columbus Project. The Mineral Ridge project, a gold mining operation that achieved commercial production status in January 2012, is approximately 20 miles southwest of the Columbus Project.
GEOLOGY
The Columbus Project covers a flat enclosed basin with a surface composed of salt deposits and is primarily devoid of vegetation. Older sediments, which host the silver deposits of Candelaria, underlie several sequences of volcanic rocks, with the youngest being the 15Ma Gilbert Andesite. The region has undergone older thrust faulting, which hosts the Candelaria deposits, and later extensional faulting as a result of movement along the Walker Lane. The Columbus Basin is one of several structural basins in the region caused by right lateral movement along the Walker Lane and the subsequent clockwise rotation and oblique extensional down dropping of the blocks within this structural domain.
EXPLORATION ACTIVITIES
Exploration work to date has identified three different host materials (sand, clay, brine) each of which could potentially contain commercial quantities of gold and silver mineralization within the project area. The sand zones outcrop on the western side of the Columbus basin and dip gently eastward. The clay zones also outcrop and overlay the sand zones. The brine zone occurs as an aquifer at some 400 feet depth underlying the sand/clay zones.
Our most recent exploration efforts have focused on the sand material, specifically in a 2,000 acre area of interest on the west side of our project site. Through three drill programs, we have identified The North Sand Zone and the South Sand Zone. The North Sand Zone has been the site of the source material for our recent extraction tests.
To date, 34 holes have been drilled in the 0.67 square mile (429 acres) North Sand Zone, and 3 holes in the 0.48 square mile (307 acres) South Sand Zone. Drilling has been completed to depths ranging from 165 feet to 400 feet in both sand zones. We have yet to drill through the sand zone with any of our drilling to date.
We have been granted the permit for our Phase Four drill program, which will consist of 31 drill holes to a depth of at least 200 feet. The drill program will cover an additional 0.48 square miles adjacent to the southern boundary of the North Sand Zone. The goal of this program is to expand the boundaries and improve the definition of the North Sand Zone. Following completion of the Phase Four drill program, we will re-evaluate the boundaries of the sand zones, the quantity of the tonnage contained therein and the quality of the mineralization estimates within these areas. It is anticipated that additional drill programs will follow after Phase Four. We are currently devoting the majority of our resources on testing and modifying our mining and recovery methodology for the Columbus Project to determine if our planned extraction process for the Columbus Project is commercially viable. In addition, we plan on re-assaying all North and South Sand Zone drill samples using a new extraction process developed for the Columbus Project in order to update the mineralization grade. After effective operating parameters for the on-site pilot plant have been fully implemented and the pilot plant is operating continuously, we intend to initiate the Phase Four drilling program.
Figure 3: Map of North and South Sand Zones
Historical Surface Sampling Program and Drill Programs
Near surface basin sediment samples were taken in late 2006 and early 2007. 64 surface samples, four shallow boring samples, and a bulk sample were taken and analyzed using a four acid total digestion and atomic absorption analysis. Samples were analyzed for Au, Ag, Cu, and Fe. This work led to the discovery of a 5,000 acre surface gold anomaly in the northwestern part of the basin. This gold anomaly is the primary focus of current exploration work. The Permitted Mine Area (380 acres) is situated in the north end of this zone.
2007 Drill Program
An 18-hole hollow stem auger drill program was undertaken in Q3 2007 in the Permitted Mine Area to establish mineral potential at depth. Samples were 18” in length, taken every 10’ with a split spoon sampler. Material was analyzed using a 3-acid modified version of aqua regia, followed by atomic absorption analysis. A split was analyzed by CBI staff at the onsite facility using a standard fire assay and it was found that standard fire assay was ineffective. Repeated firing of the slag showed that various amounts of the metals remained in the slag after each firing. The results from the 2007 drill program have been discounted by us as the analytical methodology used then did not rely on metal-in-hand of gold or silver.
2008 and 2009 Drill Programs
Encouraging results from the 2007 drill program warranted a second drill program, which took place in Q2-Q3 2008, consisting of 39 widely spaced holes and a total of just less than 10,000 feet using sonic drilling technology. 25 holes were drilled in the ‘A’ program, 14 holes in the ‘B’ program. For this program, holes were drilled to depths ranging from 200 feet to 400 feet. The sonic drilling resulted in continuous sample material, therefore providing an improved representation of each 10 ft. drill interval. Samples of the 10 ft. composites were sent for analysis under chain of custody protocols.
A follow up drilling program was initiated in Q2 of 2009 to delineate mineralized zones and further define the extent of gold and silver mineralization potential in the project area. 58 holes, for a total of 15,270 feet, were drilled as a follow up to the ~10,000 feet drilled in 2008. Sample composite intervals were changed from 10’ to 20’ because of the homogeneity of the sample material. Again, the drill material was stored in polyethylene bags in the onsite core facility. Samples were analysed using caustic fusion assay under chain of custody protocols. In addition, 211 clay samples were taken at various depths for density determinations.
2010 Drill Program
In 2010, we drilled 28 holes in the North Sand Zone and 147 short holes in the permitted mine clay zone. As the sand zones are the focus of the technical program, the samples from the clay zone drilling have been inventoried and will be analyzed later. Sampling protocol remained at 20 ft. composite intervals.
Mineralized Intervals
To determine the mineralized intervals in the North and South Sand Zone, we chose a minimum grade of 0.015 opt Au to identify mineralized material, and identification of at least three contiguous mineralized samples indicated a mineralized zone. Upon completion of a feasibility study, a commercial grade mineralized cut off will be determined and mineralized zones will be recalculated. The caustic fusion assay results from the 2008, 2009 and 2010 drilling programs are listed below, broken down by area. It should be noted that because of the nature of the geology, the material must be mined from the surface down, so therefore, mineralized averages that start at depth rather than at the surface, may appear higher than they would be in production.
To date, 34 holes have been drilled in the North Sand Zone. Drilling in the North Sand Zone covered approximately 0.67 square miles, to depths ranging from 165 feet to 400 feet beneath the surface of the Columbus Marsh Basin, In addition, three holes have been drilled in the South Sand Zone, to depths of between approximately 200 to 400 feet.
Mineralized Intervals - North Sand Zone (Caustic Fusion Assay)
Mineralized Intervals - South Sand Zone (Caustic Fusion Assay)
After completion of the pilot plant testing, we intend to re-assay all drill samples from the North and South Sand Zones.. We had intended to have the reassaying of the drill samples completed in 2015. However, reassaying is being delayed as we focus on the pilot plant testing, which we believe to be more significant to the overall technical program.
Sampling Procedures
An onsite core facility was constructed for logging and sampling of the material from the drill programs. Core intervals were set up on tables for geological logging. Once logged, the intervals were sampled by taking a continuous wedge of material from the outside to the center of the core. A smaller split was taken at random intervals. These samples were placed in standard heavy duty Ziploc bags. A slice of the core was taken at depths of approximately 50’ intervals. These were weighed wet and their dimensions were taken and documented for density determination. Sample splits were then sent to an independent laboratory for analysis.
QA/QC Procedures
Quality control for the Columbus Project was established during the 2008 drill program to guarantee the quality of the analytical results for that and all subsequent drilling/sampling programs on this project. All samples were submitted in random order to monitor laboratory precision. This is done to check for instrument variation, or ‘drift’, and cross contamination during the analytical process. Duplicate samples, standard reference material (standards), and blanks were introduced at approximately 1 for every 20 samples. Duplicate samples are used to evaluate the sample variability and stability of the analytical method. The standards are comprised of material that has been subjected to analysis from numerous labs around the world and is of an accepted concentration of gold with a very slight variance. The blanks are nothing more than pulverized environmental grade silica sand and should contain negligible concentrations of metals.
GEOLOGIC MODEL
The SEC’s Industry Guide 7 sets out the reporting and disclosure requirements for issuers engaged in mineral exploration activities. Under the provisions of Industry Guide 7, only proven or probable reserves may be disclosed in filings with the SEC. “Reserves” are defined as that “part of a mineral deposit which could be economically and legally extracted or produced at the time of the reserve determination.” The calculation of reserves requires the preparation of a feasibility study demonstrating the economic and legal feasibility of mining and processing the mineralization at the project site. We do not currently have any proven or probable reserves. Industry Guide 7 does not permit us to disclose of inferred, indicated or measured resources in our filings with the SEC.
The North Sand Zone, our focus area for sampling and drilling operations, covers a surface area of approximately 0.67 mi2. The South Sand Zone covers a surface area of approximately 0.48 mi2. The location of the North and South Sand Zones is shown in Figure 3.
These Sand Zones, located along the western edge of the project area, are alluvial material occurring as ‘fans’ which descend beneath the clay toward the center of the basin. The depth to this sand was gridded and contoured. This information is very useful for determining where this sand unit might be encountered during future drilling. In general, changes in sand depth parallel the basin. The average dry bulk density of the sands is 1.165 ton/yd³ (1.383 tonnes/m³). The sand zone averages 91.4% -1/4” as determined from 258 screen analysis of sonic drill samples from 0-200 ft. depth.
The lakebed clay varies in color, moisture content, texture, and organic content. Because of the wide drill hole spacing, it is not possible to correlate between individual clay units. At present, the clay will not be sub-classified and will be referred to as a single unit. Average dry bulk density of the clay, taken from the 200+ samples, is 1.198 tons/yd3 (1.423 tonnes/m3).
The North Sand Zone and South Sand Zone are comprised of mostly sand, but also contains some silt and clays. Even though the South Sand Zone is two dimensional, it is highly likely that these zones are contemporaneous and this southern zone is of exploration significance.
Analytical Methodology
All previously reported drill results were determined by caustic fusion assay and analysis of the extracted and weighed metal for gold and silver. Sampling and analyses were conducted by qualified independent professionals, under chain of custody procedures, and included blind labeling of samples, the insertion of blanks, standard reference material and repeats to ensure the quality of results.
Prior to our 2007 - 2010 drill programs, we had engaged in extensive research and testing before determining that caustic fusion (on head ore and concentrates) and thiosulphate or cyanide leaching (on concentrates) were the best pyrometallurgical and hydrometallurgical methodologies for extracting gold and silver from the refractory sands and clays that encapsulate these metals at the Columbus Project. However recent research suggests that using a thermal pre-treatment (“TP”) followed by autoclave or open vessel leaching (“AC”) may yield greater extraction results.
Caustic fusion is a standard pyrometallurgical method that uses chemical fluxes melted at low temperature to dissolve the sample rock and liberate the contained minerals or metals for subsequent extraction and/or analysis. Caustic fusion was developed in South Africa over 100 years ago and was first used to liberate diamonds from their refractory kimberlites. It has since been used to quantify other minerals/metals in rocks by analyzing the fused product. We have confirmed the reliability of our caustic fusion protocols during subsequent bulk leach tests (±200-3000 lb.) conducted offsite, whereby the amount of gold and silver extracted as metal-in-hand by thiosulphate leaching of bulk samples has been comparable to caustic fusion assay results on representative splits from the same samples. Caustic fusion has therefore been proven to be a very effective method for extracting gold and silver from the refractory minerals (organics, silicates) in the sand and clay at Columbus.
Thiosulphate leaching technology is over 100 years old. It was first used for dissolving silver from silver chloride deposits. In recent years, thiosulphate leaching has been extensively studied as an alternative to cyanide because it is an environmentally friendly, hydrometallurgical method for extracting gold and silver from ores. Barrick Gold Corporation’s Goldstrike mine in Nevada uses a thiosulfate leaching circuit that went into commercial production in 2015. Our work showed that thiosulphate leaching of head ore concentrates, followed by resin extraction, was very effective in bench and pilot scale tests conducted off site for the extraction of gold and silver, as “metal-in-hand” from materials extracted from the Columbus Project. Aqua regia and cyanide leaching tests of head ore and aqua regia leaching of concentrates had previously proved ineffective and resulted in extremely low gold and silver extraction. However, both thiosulphate and cyanide leaching of concentrates have extracted commercial values on samples extracted from the Columbus Project. It is the thiosulphate leach system that was installed at the on-site pilot plant in 2013 to determine the feasibility of leaching both the sand and clay deposits.
To ensure the reliability of our results, unless specifically stated otherwise, we have instituted rigorous QA/QC protocols, including blind random sampling, and the inclusion of blanks, standards and duplicates. To further ensure reliability, we measure only the actual amount of gold and silver physically extracted from our test samples when reporting assay results. Caustic fusion provides “metal-in-hand” on head ore and concentrates as do thiosulphate leach and cyanide leach on gravity concentrates. Using these assay methods, together with the quality assurances and quality controls of the drill program, we and our consultants are confident of the previous results that we have reported from head ore and concentrate samples.
Fire assaying is the most common pyrometallurgical method used for extracting gold and silver from rock. Fire assaying relies on the use of standardized chemical fluxes to reduce the melting point of the minerals entombing the gold and silver so that they can be liberated and collected in a lead “button” and examined. Although this process works well for extracting gold entombed in sulfides (e.g. pyrite) and silica, such as that found in Carlin-type gold deposits, the chemical fluxes used in fire assaying methods are ineffective at liberating the gold and silver from refractory minerals (organics and silicates (Fe-Mg-Al-Si-Ox)) as are found at the Columbus Project. These refractory silicates are similar in composition to the crucibles used during the firing process, which also do not melt. As a result, in our tests, fire assaying has shown to be ineffective at extracting gold and silver from the sand and clay from the Columbus Project.
As mentioned previously, the entombment of the precious metals in the refractory organics and silicates at the Columbus Project can cause problems of extraction, and therefore detection by many methods of analysis. The early test work (2006-2009) completed by our metallurgists demonstrated that fire assaying and multi-acid digesting were ineffective at extracting commercial values of gold and silver from the head samples of sand and clay from the Columbus. In January 2010, the Nevada Bureau of Mines and Geology (the “NBMG”) reported that they had conducted a small sampling program on our claims.1 It should be noted that the location of the NBMG sample sites were approximately one to three miles away from our current area of operations and testing, and in a different geology. We have not conducted our own tests on sample materials extracted from this location. However, the results reported by the NBMG are consistent with our expectations based on our work using similar assaying methods. According to the report prepared by the NBMG, they took five near surface samples, taken to a depth of 30-52 cm (approx. one ft.), from the Columbus Salt Marsh. Splits of each of the samples were then reportedly analyzed by fire assay (Au and Ag), fire assay fusion followed by instrumental neutron activation finish (Au and Ag), fire assay and inductively coupled plasma atomic emission (Au), four acid near total digestion (Ag) and aqua regia digestion (Au and Ag). The NBMG reported that they found small quantities of gold (0.00035 opt to 0.000029 opt) and silver (0.00233 opt to 0.00029 opt) for four acid digestion - other tests were reportedly below their detection limits.
During 2014-2015, Dr. Charles A. Ager, working in conjunction with a third party mining technology firm, developed a process that we believe resolves the problems posed by the refractory minerals encapsulating the gold and silver found at the Columbus Project. This new process (“TPAC”) involves first using a thermal pre-treatment (“TP”) on the sample material, followed by autoclave or open vessel leaching (“AC”). Initial results on 100g and 500g splits taken from bulk samples extracted from a single drill hole (10S7A) in the North Sand Zone resulted in the following extractions under laboratory conditions:
______________________________
Nevada Bureau of Mines and Geology Open-File Report 10-1: Geochemical Sampling of Selected Playas in Nevada: Alkali Lake (Esmeralda County), Columbus Salt Marsh (Esmeralda County). Rhodes Salt Marsh (Mineral County), and Winnemucca Dry Lake (Washoe County).
Test 1: 500g (17.6oz) head sand - 0.314 opt Au (TP and AC at offsite laboratory)
Test 2: 100g (3.5oz) head sand - 0.203 opt Au (TP at Columbus, AC at offsite laboratory)
Weight Mean Average=0.296 opt Au; Average=0.259 opt Au
(See cautionary language below regarding reliance on these test results.)
These results are contrasted with 0.057 opt Au extracted from splits from the same drill hole under laboratory conditions using caustic fusion assay, and as reported in November 2015, led to our decision to re-equip and re-start the pilot plant and, if successful, then to re-assay all of our previous North and South Sand Zone drill samples to establish an updated gold grade using the TPAC method.
Originally, the TPAC process was expected to result in significantly higher material processing costs. Since then, modifications have been made to the TPAC process that are expected to lower operating costs compared to the original TPAC process, with higher gold recoveries than those achieved using the originally planned gravity concentraction followed by thiosulphate (STS) leaching process. Laboratory tests using the modified TPAC process on Columbus sands resulted in extractions of >0.25 opt Au from 100g (3.5oz) to 2500g (88.1oz) sized samples. (See cautionary language below regarding reliance on these test results.) Samples for these most recent laboratory tests were taken from the same general area as the laboratory tests for the pre-modification TPAC process. It was determined that these results were sufficiently promising to introduce the modified TPAC process to the onsite pilot plant. (See “Mining and Recovery Methodology - Installation and Testing of On-Site Leach Process”.) Onsite testing of the modified TPAC process on sample sizes between 100 lbs. to 2000 lbs. has begun and is ongoing.
Because testing of the modified TPAC process is ongoing, we have not yet determined our targeted precious metals extraction rates for this modified TPAC extraction method.
Readers are cautioned that third party chain of custody protocols were not observed during testing of the TPAC process (original TPAC process and modified TPAC process) as Company personnel assisted in sample collection and preparation. In addition, the results of laboratory testing of the TPAC process may not be representative of extraction rates for the rest of the North Sand Zone or the Columbus Project as a whole. The tests were also conducted under laboratory conditions and not on-site. In the past, we have encountered difficulties when attempting to translate extraction results achieved in laboratory conditions at the on-site pilot plant.
The TPAC process was developed by Dr. Ager and a third party mining technology firm, and is proprietary to Nanominerals. Nanominerals has granted us the right to use this process at the Columbus Project.
MINING AND RECOVERY METHODOLOGY
The Company currently has a Water Pollution Control permit granted by the Nevada Division of Environmental Protection for the Columbus Project. This permit allows for the extraction of precious metals and the production of calcium carbonate on the 380 acre site (320 acre mine site and 60-acre mill site) at a mine rate of up to 792,000 tons per year to a depth of 40 feet. During the period from 2008-2011, the Company developed a dredge mine, constructed a pilot plant and began operations to develop and prove the extractive metallurgy for the Columbus Project. Initial metallurgical testing was primarily focused on extracting gold and silver from the clay material. As previously reported, problems with organic material interfered with the extraction of precious metals from the clays, and this has led us to focus our current efforts on extraction of the precious metals from the sands.
From 2012 to 2014 we were engaged in the process of transferring the gold and silver extraction process that achieved our targeted extraction rates when operated under laboratory conditions offsite to the on-site pilot plant. Recoveries from our tests using the on-site extraction process did not reach our then targeted recovery rate. Our efforts to finalize the mining and recovery methodology were based on a methodical two-pronged approach consisting of: (a) replicating on-site the extraction process that achieved our then targeted extraction rates when operated offsite; and (b) modifying this extraction process to attain our recovery rate objectives.
The Columbus Project extraction process was originally designed to be a low cost method that consists of three steps:
1.
First, a gravity concentration circuit that processes between two and five tons of raw material to generate one ton of concentrates.
2.
Next, the concentrates are leached, then filtered and then loaded onto resins at the on-site pilot plant.
3.
The resins are then ashed to determine the quantity of gold and silver recovered.
This process was designed around extensive offsite laboratory testing that successfully extracted gold from samples taken from the North Sand Zone in excess of our targeted extraction rate. However, when installed and operated onsite, the process was not able to reach our then targeted extraction rate.
Installation of Gravity Concentration Circuit and Laboratory Tests on Leach Process
In Q4 2011 and Q1 2012, we announced the results of three bulk tests (194 lb., 220 lb., 3,000 lb.) completed on sand material collected from a single site within the North Sand Zone, then sent offsite and processed through our gravity concentration circuit under laboratory conditions. The total results of the tests were: 13:1 concentration ratio; 121% Au recovery; and 42% Ag recovery (0.096 opt AuE2, 0.084 opt Au and 0.642 opt Ag).
Since the beginning of 2012, we have been conducting bulk sample tests on sand materials extracted from the same site in the North Sand Zone. The first tests were conducted using the offsite gravity concentration circuit under laboratory conditions. In Q2 2012, gravity concentration equipment was installed at the onsite pilot plant, and subsequent bulk tests were processed using the onsite gravity concentration circuit. During 2012, 48,919 lbs. (24.45 tons) from four separate sand material tests was sent offsite for leaching, resin collection and metal extraction. The combined results of the tests resulted in an average extraction of 0.046 opt Au and 0.143 opt Ag, or 0.049 AuE. The test results each met or exceeded our then extraction goal of 0.03 opt AuE. Each test was run under different operating variables, and none of the tests were optimized based on previous test results.
Summary of Bulk Sand Leach Tests (Laboratory Conditions)
The purpose of these bulk tests was to demonstrate the continued effectiveness of the onsite gravity concentration components of the precious metals extraction circuit, while also assisting in the determination of which operating parameters increase or decrease precious metals extraction. Readers should note that the tests referred to above were all from a single bulk sample test site and may not be representative of grades or recovery rates that can be expected for the overall North Sand Zone. The area from which these samples were taken may represent an anomaly within the North Sand Zone and may not be representative of grades or recovery rates for the entire zone. Additional gravity concentration tests on bulk samples from different sites within the North Sand Zone will follow.
__________________________________
AuE opt = Au opt + Ag/55 opt
Installation and Testing of On-Site Leach Process
In Q4 2012, we finalized operating parameters for the gravity concentration components of the onsite pilot plant. In Q4 2012 and Q1 2013, we installed equipment for the leaching and metal extraction components of the onsite extraction circuit. In April 2013, we commenced our first series of multi-ton batch extraction tests, and conducted additional test series through 2013. A “test series” consists of three to five individual tests run semi-concurrently under very similar operating parameters. Results from these test series produced small amounts of gold and silver (<0.01opt Au).
In December 2013, we installed new leach filtration equipment on-site. This equipment is a duplicate of the filter used in our offsite laboratory tests. In January 2014, the concentrating equipment used for laboratory tests in Salt Lake City was also relocated to the Columbus Project site, operating alongside the concentrating equipment that was installed in 2012.
After the installation of the new leach filtration and concentrating equipment, two concentration and leach tests (1,000 lbs. each) were run through the extraction circuit and the loaded resins ashed. These tests also did not achieve our then targeted recovery rate. However, the information derived from these tests has allowed us to determine several additional operational adjustments.
The gravity concentration circuit was checked by shipping bulk concentrates produced at the Columbus pilot plant to offsite facilities for thiosulphate leaching and resin extraction. These tests produced 1.1134 oz. Au and 3.4814 oz. Ag from 24 tons of head ore extracted from the 10S3A drill hole in the North Sand Zone for a calculated extractable head grade of 0.046 opt Au and 0.143 opt Ag. These results indicated that the gold extraction problems that we had experienced at the Columbus pilot plant were isolated to the on-site leach circuit.
As a result of the low extraction rates experienced at the Columbus pilot plant, we engaged in an extensive research program to isolate the problem. The exhaustive testing by our metallurgical team included scanning electron microscope (SEM), energy dispersive spectroscopy (EDS), transmission electron microscope (TEM), UV-VIS-NIR spectroscopy, atomic absorption (AA), graphite furnace AA (GFAA), inductive coupled plasma (ICP), ICP mass spectrometry (ICP-MS), zeta potential (ZP), electrophoresis (EP), electro-winning (EW), precipitation, resin analysis, X-ray diffraction (XRD), thermal pre-treatment (TP) and autoclave leaching (AC). Various leach chemicals, water supplies, head ore samples (North Sand Zone), gravity (ITC) concentrates, leach-PLS and caustic fusion-PLS were all examined in detail. The results of these tests not only identified the leach problems, as mentioned above, but also uncovered the mineralogy of the gold in the sand and the metallurgy of the gold in the leach PLS at Columbus.
Electron microscope work (SEM/EDS, TEM) identified that the gold in the sand occurs as clusters, generally <1000 nm, of refractory coated nanogold particles (<30nm) further entombed in silicate minerals. Occasionally grains of aggregated clusters (<200µ) were also found in the ITC concentrates. The SEM micrograph and EDS spectrum clearly show the gold and its coatings in the sands. Analysis of the PLS in 2014, using TEM (+300,000x magnification) and zeta potential, identified that the gold in both the caustic fusion and leach PLS occurred as negative charged colloids and not as ionic complexes.
It was also found that the pilot plant ground potential was +9 volt DC as delivered by on-site generators and/or the Columbus Basin itself. In other words, the grounded stainless steel leach tanks were positively charged instead of neutral (0 volts). During leaching, the negative charged gold colloids were apparently plated out of solution to the tank walls, swept into the solids by agitation and deposited into the tails during filtration. As a consequence, only minor gold was left in the pregnant leach solution (PLS) for capture by the resins as depicted in the Flow Diagrams below.
This work led to the development of the TPAC extraction process. Early test work using the TPAC process resulted in a significant increase in gold extraction on splits taken from the 10S7A drill hole location of the North Sand Zone. (See “Analytical Methodology”, above.)
As was reported in our last technical update in November 2015, the results in laboratory scale testing of the TPAC process was consistent enough to warrant larger scale testing in the onsite pilot plant. In order to ensure reliability of on-site laboratory results in support of the pilot plant operations, new laboratory equipment was installed and all laboratory equipement was thoroughly tested and calibrated. This work was completed in January 2016.
Thermal Pretreatment (TP) equipment with sufficient capacity for the pliot plant was required to be designed and built by our technical team and Nanominerals. The design work for this equipment commenced in November 2015, and installation of this equipment in the pilot plant was completed in March 2016. This pilot plant scale TP equipment was tested in March 2016 and analytical results from material processed through the pilot TP equipment were consistent with results obtained from the laboratory scale equipment.
To support the pilot plant operations and increase the productivity within the technical program, three additional on-site personnel were hired in the first quarter of 2016. During the design and implementation of the larger TP equipment, pilot plant scale tests (approximately 1,000 lbs in size) were completed. During these tests, the material was not subjected to the TP process. The resulting PLS concentrates were then analysed in the on-site laboratory. Generally, extraction rates were approximately 0.10 opt Au lower for materials not subjected to the TP process prior to leaching when compared to extraction rates achieved on materials that were subjected to the TP process in separate tests. These results confirmed that TP treatment of the head material is necessary for optimal extraction.
The TPAC method was originally expected to significantly increase the cost of processing material from the Columbus Project. However, as a result of tests completed over the past nine months, we have developed a modified TPAC process that is expected to result in lower operating costs than the original TPAC process. Offsite laboratory scale testing of this modified TPAC process has averaged >0.25 opt Au from 100(3.5oz) to 2500g (88.1oz) sized samples. Similar results have been achieved in on-site laboratory tests of PLS samples of screened materials subjected to the TP process prior to leaching. (See cautionary language below regarding reliance on these test results.) These results led to the addition of more pilot plant equipment to allow for the processing of the entire volume of the PLS from each plant run. Work is now underway with additional pilot plant scale testing to optimize gold extraction from the entire volume of PLS from each run.
We will release the results from all of these internally generated tests when we complete the extraction from all of the PLS on a meaningful number of pilot plant test runs.
Readers are cautioned that third party chain of custody protocols were not observed during testing of the TPAC process (original TPAC process and modified TPAC process) and are not being observed during current onsite pilot plant scale testing as Company personnel are assisting in sample collection and preparation. In addition, the results of small scale laboratory testing of the TPAC process may not be representative of extraction rates for the rest of the North Sand Zone or the Columbus Project as a whole. In addition, in the past, we have encountered difficulties when attempting to translate extraction results achieved in laboratory conditions at the on-site pilot plant.
Readers are further cautioned that, although we believe that the results of our exploration activities to date have been sufficiently positive to proceed with the installation and operation of a pilot processing facility at the Columbus Project millsite (including installation of equipment for the modified TPAC process), we have not yet established any probable or proven reserves and we have not yet completed a preliminary economic assessment, pre-feasibility or feasibility study. Additional exploration work will be required before probable or proven reserves can be established. There are no assurances that the results of our exploration programs will result in a decision to enter into commercial production.
ITEM 3.