ITEM 2. PROPERTIES.
We currently lease office space located at Suite 100, 2441 W. Horizon Ridge Parkway, Henderson, NV 89052 at a rate of $5,975 per month. The lease terms expired on August 31, 2008, and we continue to rent the existing space on a month-to-month basis.
We currently own an interest in, or rights to, two mineral projects that we refer to as the Columbus Project and the Red Mountain Project.
THE COLUMBUS PROJECT
The Columbus Project is a sediment hosted gold and silver exploration project located in western Nevada. It is comprised of 584 unpatented placer federal mining and millsite claims on BLM land which cover 48,938 acres and an additional 80 acres of private land, for a total of 49,018 acres. It includes a permitted and operational pilot plant and mine site. We currently own a 100% stake in all 584 claims that make up the Columbus Project. Our current Area of Interest approximates 2,000 acres on the west side of our Project claims.
LOCATION
The mineral claims that make up the Columbus Project are located in the Columbus Salt Marsh, Esmeralda County, Nevada, northwest of Coaldale Junction, approximately 50 miles west of Tonopah (Fig. 1) halfway between Las Vegas and Reno. Access is from the junction of US6 and Nevada Highway 95, approximately 10 miles north of Coaldale Junction, to a gravel road westerly to the mill site and to the remains of the town of Columbus.
The Columbus Salt Marsh is an enclosed basin and is a dry lake bed for the majority of the year. All surface drainage from a surrounding 360 square mile area flows into the Columbus Salt Marsh.
Figure 1: Location of Columbus Project
TITLE AND OWNERSHIP RIGHTS TO THE CSM CLAIMS, IRELAND CLAIMS AND THE DDB CLAIMS
The Columbus Project is comprised of 584 unpatented placer federal mining and millsite claims on BLM land which cover 48,938 acres and an additional 80 acres of private land, for a total of 49,018 acres.
We acquired our initial interest in 149 claims (which we refer to as the “CSM Claims”) and an additional 147 claims (which we refer to as the “DDB Claims”) in 2007 from Nanominerals pursuant to an assignment by Nanominerals of its rights to the Columbus Project. In February 2008 we acquired a 100% interest in the CSM claims by merging the previous owner of the CSM Claims, Columbus Brine Inc. (“CBI”) with and into our wholly owned subsidiary incorporated for the sole purpose of acquiring CBI, CBI Acquisition Inc. Upon completion of the merger, CBI Acquisition Inc. changed its name to Columbus Minerals Inc.
The DDB Claims were previously owned by a mining syndicate known as the DDB Syndicate. A limited liability company controlled by Douglas D.G. Birnie, our President and Chief Executive Officer and a member of our Board, is the owner of a 1/8 interest in the DDB Syndicate. The remaining members of the DDB Syndicate are made up of the former directors and officers of CBI (including one of our former directors), the brother of a former officer and director of CBI, and certain affiliates of Nanominerals Corp. (“Nanominerals”). Nanominerals is a significant shareholder in our Company. Mr. Birnie also owns a 3.5% interest in Nanominerals. The DDB Claims were located by the DDB Syndicate in February 2007, prior to Mr. Birnie’s and Nanominerals’ involvement with our Company. Mr. Birnie also acquired his interest in Nanominerals prior to his involvement with our Company.
Our rights to the DDB Claims were held under the terms of a mining lease with the DDB Syndicate dated November 30, 2007 (the “DDB Agreement”). The DDB Agreement provided us with a five year lease on the DDB Claims, ending on November 29, 2012, with an option to purchase the DDB Claims at any time during the lease period. Under the option rights provided under the DDB Agreement, we had the right to purchase the DDB Claims at any time by either:
(a)
paying the DDB Syndicate the purchase price of $400,000 (with all previously made rental payments credited against such purchase price); or
(b)
paying the DDB Syndicate $10, plus granting the DDB Syndicate a royalty of 2% of net smelter returns on the DDB Claims.
On November 20, 2012, we elected to exercise the purchase option on the DDB Claims, paying the balance of $180,000 to the DDB Syndicate, being the purchase price of $400,000 less the $220,000 in rental payments previously made under the DDB Agreement.
An additional 288 claims (which we refer to as the “Ireland Claims”) were staked by us in September 2011.
As of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we own a 100% interest in all of the CBI Claims, DDB Claims and Ireland Claims.
Each of the CSM, Ireland and DDB Claims are unpatented placer federal claims. In order to maintain these claims, we are required to pay annual maintenance fees to the US Bureau of Land and Minerals (the “BLM”) by September 1 of each year. The annual claim maintenance fees paid to the BLM for the 2012 claim year totalled $446,259. A summary of the Columbus Project Claims is included as an exhibit to this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
ACCESS AND INFRASTRUCTURE
The Columbus Project contains an operational pilot plant, onsite laboratory, operated by Western Analytical Consultants, and living facilities with power supplied by generators and water from an onsite well. Water used for processing is available from existing wells located on the surrounding basin (the “Columbus Basin”). There is also a high voltage grid located near the Candelaria Mine, approximately three miles from the Columbus Project.
Permits have been obtained for the extraction of precious metals and the production of calcium carbonate from an area of approximately 380 acres, including millsite, roads and mineable acreage.
HISTORY
The Columbus area has had mining activity for over 100 years. Silver was discovered in 1863 in the area of the Candelaria Mine, to the northwest of the Columbus Basin. These deposits were mined intermittently by different companies through 1999, producing large quantities of silver and minor gold. Salt was first mined in the Columbus Salt Marsh in 1864, followed by borax in 1871. Precious metals were thought to exist in the basin sediments as early as the late 19th century but no production is documented. Mining ceased in the Columbus Marsh around the beginning of the 20th century.
The Columbus Project is located in an area that has historically been known as a well mineralized region. A silver and gold mining operation known as the Candelaria Mine is located approximately five miles northwest of the Columbus Project. The Round Mountain project is a gold operation located approximately 60 miles northeast of the Columbus Project. The Clayton Valley Brine Project, a lithium extraction project, is located approximately 25 miles southeast of the Columbus Project.
GEOLOGY
The Columbus Project covers a flat enclosed basin with a surface composed of salt deposits and is primarily devoid of vegetation. Older sediments, which host the silver deposits of Candelaria, underlie several sequences of volcanic rocks, with the youngest being the 15Ma Gilbert Andesite. The region has undergone older thrust faulting, which hosts the Candelaria deposits, and later extensional faulting as a result of movement along the Walker Lane. The Columbus Basin is one of several structural basins in the region caused by right lateral movement along the Walker Lane and the subsequent clockwise rotation and oblique extensional down dropping of the blocks within this structural domain.
EXPLORATION ACTIVITIES
Exploration work to date has identified three different host materials (sand, clay, brine) each of which could potentially contain commercial quantities of gold and silver mineralization within the project area. The sand zones outcrop on the western side of the Columbus basin and dip gently eastward. The clay zones also outcrop and overlay the sand zones. The brine zone occurs as an aquifer at some 400 feet depth underlying the sand/clay zones.
Our recent exploration efforts have focused on the sand material, specifically in a 2,000 acre area of interest on the west side of our project site. Through three drill programs, we have identified The North Sand Zone and the South Sand Zone. The North Sand Zone has been the site of the source material for our recent extraction tests.
To date, 34 holes have been drilled in the 0.67 square mile (429 acres) North Sand Zone, and 3 holes in the 0.48 square mile (307 acres) South Sand Zone. Drilling has been completed to depths ranging from 165 feet to 400 feet in both sand zones. We have yet to drill through the sand zone with any of our drilling to date.
We have been granted the permit for our Phase Four drill program, which will consist of 31 drill holes to a depth of at least 200 feet. The drill program will cover an additional 0.48 square miles adjacent to the southern boundary of the North Sand Zone. The goal of this program is to expand the boundaries and improve the definition of the North Sand Zone. Following completion of the Phase Four drill program, we will re-evaluate the boundaries of the sand zones, the quantity of the tonnage contained therein and the quality of the mineralization estimates within these areas. It is anticipated that additional drill programs will follow.
Figure 3: Map of North and South Sand Zones
Historical Surface Sampling Program and Drill Programs
Near surface basin sediment samples were taken in late 2006 and early 2007. 64 surface samples, four shallow boring samples, and a bulk sample were taken and analyzed using a four acid total digestion and atomic absorption analysis. Samples were analyzed for Au, Ag, Cu, and Fe. This work led to the discovery of a 5,000 acre surface gold anomaly in the northwestern part of the basin. This gold anomaly is the primary focus of current exploration work. The Permitted Mine Area (380 acres) is situated in the north end of this zone.
2007 Drill Program
An 18-hole hollow stem auger drill program was undertaken in Q3 2007 in the Permitted Mine Area to establish mineral potential at depth. Samples were 18” in length, taken every 10’ with a split spoon sampler. Material was analyzed using a 3-acid modified version of aqua regia, followed by atomic absorption analysis. A split was analyzed by CBI staff at the onsite facility using a standard fire assay and it was found that standard fire assay was ineffective. Repeated firing of the slag showed that various amounts of the metals remained in the slag after each firing. The results from the 2007 drill program have been discounted by us as the analytical methodology used then did not rely on metal-in-hand of gold or silver.
2008 and 2009 Drill Programs
Encouraging results from the 2007 drill program warranted a second drill program, which took place in Q2-Q3 2008, consisting of 39 widely spaced holes and a total of just less than 10,000 feet using sonic drilling technology. 25 holes were drilled in the ‘A’ program, 14 holes in the ‘B’ program. For this program, holes were drilled to depths ranging from 200 feet to 400 feet. The sonic drilling resulted in continuous sample material, therefore providing an improved representation of each 10 ft. drill interval. Samples of the 10 ft. composites were sent for analysis under chain of custody protocols.
A follow up drilling program was initiated in Q2 of 2009 to delineate mineralized zones and further define the extent of gold and silver mineralization potential in the project area. 58 holes, for a total of 15,270 feet, were drilled as a follow up to the ~10,000 feet drilled in 2008. Sample composite intervals were changed from 10’ to 20’ because of the homogeneity of the sample material. Again, the drill material was stored in polyethylene bags in the onsite core facility. Samples were submitted to AuRIC Metallurgical Laboratories (“AuRIC”) for caustic fusion analysis under chain of custody protocols. In addition, 211 clay samples were taken at various depths for density determinations.
2010 Drill Program
In 2010, we drilled 28 holes in the North Sand Zone and 147 short holes in the permitted mine clay zone. As the sand zones are the focus of the technical program, the samples from the clay zone drilling have been inventoried and will be analyzed later. Sampling protocol remained at 20 ft. composite intervals.
Mineralized Intervals
To determine the mineralized intervals in the North and South Sand Zone, we chose a minimum grade of 0.015 opt Au to identify mineralized material, and identification of at least three contiguous mineralized samples indicated a mineralized zone. Upon completion of a feasibility study a commercial grade mineralized cut off will be determined and mineralized zones will be recalculated. The caustic fusion assay results from the 2008, 2009 and 2010 drilling programs are listed below, broken down by area. It should be noted that because of the nature of the geology, the material must be mined from the surface down, so therefore, mineralized averages that start at depth rather than at the surface, may appear higher than they would be in production.
To date, 34 holes have been drilled in the North Sand Zone. Drilling in the North Sand Zone covered approximately 0.67 square miles, to depths ranging from 165 feet to 400 feet beneath the surface of the Columbus Marsh Basin, In addition, 3 holes have been drilled in the South Sand Zone, to depths of between approximately 200 to 400 feet.
Mineralized Intervals - North Sand Zone
Hole ID From
(ft.)
to (ft.)
Au opt
Ag opt
CS-09-S1A 0.044 0.194
CS-09-S2A 0.039 0.179
CS-09-S3A 0.038 0.175
CS-09-S4A 0.040 0.170
CS-09-S5A 0.036 0.157
CS-09-S7A 0.038 0.170
CS-10-S1A 0.038 0.199
CS-10-S2A 0.038 0.152
CS-10-S3A 0.049 0.332
CS-10-S4A 0.043 0.238
CS-10-S5A 0.045 0.236
CS-10-S6A 0.036 0.163
CS-10-S8A 0.045 0.234
CS-10-S9A 0.047 0.301
0.050 0.304
CS-10-S10A 0.036 0.145
CS-10-S12A 0.050 0.268
CS-10-S13A 0.060 0.105
CS-10-S14A 0.046 0.261
CS-10-S15A 0.050 0.320
CS-10-S16A 0.040 0.215
CS-10-S17A 0.042 0.246
CS-10-S18A 0.050 0.303
CS-10-S19A 0.032 0.189
CS-10-S20A 0.040 0.213
CS-10-S21A 0.029 0.153
0.029 0.152
CS-10-S22A 0.020 0.092
CS-10-S23A 0.038 0.196
CS-10-S24A 0.053 0.326
CS-10-S25A 0.034 0.152
0.053 0.326
CS-10-S26A 0.031 0.189
0.038 0.234
CS-10-S27A 0.031 0.145
CS-10-S28A 0.029 0.164
Mineralized Intervals - South Sand Zone
Hole ID from (ft.) to (ft.) Au opt Ag opt
CS-08-S1B 0.046 0.233
CS-09-S1B 0.038 0.186
CS-09-S2B 0.041 0.192
Sampling Procedures
An onsite core facility was constructed for logging and sampling of the material from the drill programs. Core intervals were set up on tables for geological logging. Once logged, the intervals were sampled by taking a continuous wedge of material from the outside to the center of the core. A smaller split was taken at random intervals. These samples were placed in standard heavy duty Ziploc bags. A slice of the core was taken at depths of approximately 50’ intervals. These were weighed wet and their dimensions were taken and documented for density determination. Sample splits were then sent to an independent laboratory for analysis.
QA/QC Procedures
Quality control for the Columbus Project was established during the 2008 drill program to guarantee the quality of the analytical results for that and all subsequent drilling/sampling programs on this project. All samples were submitted in random order to monitor laboratory precision. This is done to check for instrument variation, or ‘drift’, and cross contamination during the analytical process. Duplicate samples, standard reference material (standards), and blanks were introduced at approximately 1 for every 20 samples. Duplicate samples are used to evaluate the sample variability and stability of the analytical method. The standards are comprised of material that has been subjected to analysis from numerous labs around the world and is of an accepted concentration of gold with a very slight variance. The blanks are nothing more than pulverized environmental grade silica sand and should contain negligible concentrations of metals.
GEOLOGIC MODEL
The SEC’s Industry Guide 7 sets out the reporting and disclosure requirements for issuers engaged in mineral exploration activities. Under the provisions of Industry Guide 7, only proven or probable reserves may be disclosed in filings with the SEC. “Reserves” are defined as that “part of a mineral deposit which could be economically and legally extracted or produced at the time of the reserve determination.” The calculation of reserves requires the preparation of a feasibility study demonstrating the economic and legal feasibility of mining and processing the mineralization at the project site. We do not currently have any proven or probable reserves. Industry Guide 7 does not permit us to disclose of inferred, indicated or measured resources in our filings with the SEC.
The North Sand Zone, our focus area for sampling and drilling operations, covers a surface area of approximately 0.67 mi2. The South Sand Zone covers a surface area of approximately 0.48 mi2. The location of the North and South Sand Zones is shown in Figure 3.
These Sand Zones, located along the western edge of the project area, are alluvial material occurring as ‘fans’ which descend beneath the clay toward the center of the basin. The depth to this sand was gridded and contoured. This information is very useful for determining where this sand unit might be encountered during future drilling. In general, changes in sand depth parallel the basin. The average dry bulk density of the sands is 1.165 ton/yd³ (1.383 tonnes/m³). The sand zone averages 91.4% -1/4” as determined from 258 screen analysis of sonic drill samples from 0-200 ft. depth.
The lakebed clay varies in color, moisture content, texture, and organic content. Because of the wide drill hole spacing, it is not possible to correlate between individual clay units. At present, the clay will not be sub-classified and will be referred to as a single unit. Average dry bulk density of the clay, taken from the 200+ samples, is 1.198 tons/yd3 (1.423 tonnes/m3).
The North Sand Zone and South Sand Zone are comprised of mostly sand, but also contains some silt and clays. Even though the South Sand Zone is two dimensional, it is highly likely that these zones are contemporaneous and this southern zone is of exploration significance.
Analytical Methodology
All reported drill results were determined by caustic fusion assay and analysis of the extracted and weighed metal for gold and silver. Sampling and analyses were conducted by qualified independent professionals, under chain of custody procedures, and included blind labeling of samples, the insertion of blanks, standard reference material and repeats to ensure the quality of results.
AuRIC and our metallurgists engaged in extensive research and testing before they determined the best pyrometallurgical and hydrometallurgical methodologies for extracting gold and silver from the refractory sands and clays that warehouse these metals at the Columbus Project.
Our research has indicated that caustic fusion (on head ore and concentrates) and thiosulphate or cyanide leaching (on concentrates) are the best pyrometallurgical and hydrometallurgical methods for extracting gold and silver from the Columbus Project. Caustic fusion is a standard pyrometallurgical method that uses chemical fluxes melted at low temperature to dissolve the sample rock and liberate the contained minerals or metals for subsequent extraction and/or analysis. Caustic fusion was developed in South Africa over 100 years ago and was first used to liberate diamonds from their refractory kimberlites. It has since been used to quantify other minerals/metals in rocks by analyzing the fused product. The caustic fusion assay protocol utilized by AuRIC for our analytical methodology has not been sent to other third parties for testing. We have confirmed the reliability of our caustic fusion protocols during subsequent bulk leach tests (±200-3000 lb.), whereby the amount of gold and silver extracted as metal-in-hand by thiosulphate leaching of bulk samples has been comparable to caustic fusion assay results on representative splits from the same samples. Caustic fusion has therefore been proven to be a very effective method for extracting gold and silver from the refractory minerals (organics, silicates) in the sand and clay at Columbus.
Thiosulphate leaching technology is over 100 years old. It was first used for dissolving silver from silver chloride deposits. In recent years, thiosulphate leaching has been extensively studied as an alternative to cyanide because it is an environmentally friendly, hydrometallurgical method for extracting gold and silver from ores. Barrick Gold Corporation is currently in the process of converting its Goldstrike mine in Nevada to use thiosulphate, and is scheduled to be online in 2014. Our work has shown that thiosulphate leaching of head ore concentrates followed by resin extraction, has been very effective in bench and pilot scale tests for the extraction of gold and silver, as “metal-in-hand”, at the Columbus Project. Aqua regia and cyanide leaching tests of head ore and aqua regia leaching of concentrates have proved ineffective and resulted in extremely low gold and silver extraction. However, both thiosulphate and cyanide leaching of concentrates have extracted commercial values at Columbus. It is the thiosulphate leach system that is currently being tested onsite to determine the feasibility of leaching both the sand and clay deposits.
To ensure the reliability of our results, we have instituted rigorous QA/QC protocols, including blind random sampling, and the inclusion of blanks, standards and duplicates. To further ensure reliability, we measure only the actual amount of gold and silver physically extracted from our test samples when reporting assay results. Caustic fusion provides “metal-in-hand” on head ore and concentrates as do thiosulphate leach and cyanide leach on gravity concentrates. Using these assay methods, together with the quality assurances and quality controls of the drill program, we and our consultants are confident of the results that we have reported from head ore and concentrate samples.
Fire assaying is the most common pyrometallurgical method used for extracting gold and silver from rock. Fire assaying relies on the use of standardized chemical fluxes to reduce the melting point of the minerals entombing the gold and silver so that they can be liberated and collected in a lead “button” and examined. Although this process works well for extracting gold entombed in sulfides (e.g. pyrite) and silica, such as that found in Carlin-type gold deposits, the chemical fluxes used in fire assaying methods are ineffective at liberating the gold and silver from refractory minerals (organics and silicates (Fe-Mg-Al-Si-Ox)) as are found at the Columbus Project. These refractory silicates are similar in composition to the crucibles used during the firing process, which also do not melt. As a result, in our tests, fire assaying has shown to be ineffective at extracting gold and silver from the sand and clay from the Columbus Project.
As mentioned previously, the entombment of the precious metals in the refractory organics and silicates at the Columbus Project can cause problems of extraction, and therefore detection by many methods of analysis. The early test work (2006-2009) completed by AuRIC and our metallurgists demonstrated that fire assaying and multi-acid digesting were ineffective at extracting commercial values of gold and silver from the head samples of sand and clay from the Columbus. In January 2010, the Nevada Bureau of Mines and Geology (the “NBMG”) reported that they had conducted a small sampling program on our claims.2 It should be noted that the location of the NBMG sample sites were approximately 1 to 3 miles away from our current area of operations and testing, and in a different geology. We have not conducted our own tests on sample materials extracted from this location. However, the results reported by the NBMG are consistent with our expectations based on our work using similar assaying methods. According to the report prepared by the NBMG, they took 5 near surface samples, taken to a depth of 30-52 cm (approx. 1 ft.), from the Columbus Salt Marsh. Splits of each of the samples were then reportedly analyzed by fire assay (Au and Ag), fire assay fusion followed by instrumental neutron activation finish (Au and Ag), fire assay and inductively coupled plasma atomic emission (Au), four acid near total digestion (Ag) and aqua regia digestion (Au and Ag). The NBMG reported that they found small quantities of gold (0.00035 opt to 0.000029 opt) and silver (0.00233 opt to 0.00029 opt for four acid digestion -other tests were reportedly below their detection limits).
________________________
Nevada Bureau of Mines and Geology Open-File Report 10-1: Geochemical Sampling of Selected Playas in Nevada: Alkali Lake (Esmeralda County), Columbus Salt Marsh (Esmeralda County). Rhodes Salt Marsh (Mineral County), and Winnemucca Dry Lake (Washoe County).
MINING AND RECOVERY METHODOLOGY
The Company currently has a Water Pollution Control permit granted by the Nevada Division of Environmental Protection for the Columbus Project. This permit allows for the extraction of precious metals and the production of calcium carbonate on the 380 acre site (320 acre mine site and 60-acre mill site) at a mine rate of up to 792,000 tons per year to a depth of 40 feet. During the period from 2008-2011, the Company developed a dredge mine, constructed a pilot plant and began operations to develop and prove the extractive metallurgy for the Columbus Project. Initial metallurgical testing was primarily focused on extracting gold and silver from the clay material. As previously reported, problems with organic material interfered with the extraction of precious metals from the clays, and this has led us to focus our current efforts on extraction of the precious metals from the sands.
In Q4 2011 and Q1 2012, we announced the results of tests completed by AuRIC Metallurgical Laboratories (“AuRIC”) of Salt Lake City, Utah. AuRIC completed three bulk tests (194 lb., 220 lb., 3,000 lb.) on sand material collected from a single site within the North Sand Zone using our gravity concentration circuit. The total results of the tests were: 13:1 concentration ratio; 121% Au recovery; and 42% Ag recovery (0.096 opt AuE3, 0.084 opt Au and 0.642 opt Ag).
Since the beginning of 2012, we have been conducting bulk sample tests on sand materials extracted from the same site in the North Sand Zone using the gravity concentration circuit. The first tests were conducted using the gravity concentration circuit under laboratory conditions at AuRIC’s facilities in Salt Lake City. In Q2 2012, gravity concentration equipment was installed at the onsite pilot plant, and subsequent bulk tests were processed using the onsite gravity concentration circuit. During 2012, 48,919 lbs. (24.45 tons) from four separate sand material tests was sent to AuRIC for leaching, resin collection and metal extraction. The combined results of the tests resulted in an average extraction of 0.046 opt Au and 0.143 opt Ag, or 0.049 AuE. The test results each met or exceeded our extraction goal of 0.03 opt AuE. Each test was run under different operating variables, and none of the tests were optimized based on previous test results.
Summary of Bulk Sand Leach Tests
___________________
3 AuE opt = Au opt + Ag/55 opt
The purpose of these bulk tests was to demonstrate the continued effectiveness of the onsite gravity concentration components of the precious metals extraction circuit, while also assisting in the determination of which operating parameters increase or decrease precious metals extraction. Readers should note that the tests referred to above were all from a single bulk sample test site and may not be representative of grades or recovery rates that can be expected for the overall North Sand Zone. The area from which these samples were taken may represent an anomaly within the North Sand Zone and may not be representative of grades or recovery rates for the entire zone. Additional gravity concentration tests on bulk samples from different sites within the North Sand Zone will follow.
In October 2012, we finalized operating parameters for the gravity concentration components of the onsite pilot plant. In November 2012, we successfully installed equipment for the leaching and metal recovery components of the extraction circuit at the onsite pilot plant, after which we commenced technology transfer from AuRIC to our onsite laboratory and pilot plant.
During the first quarter of 2013, we upgraded the onsite water supply to improve its compatibility with thiosulphate leaching. Work included comparative analysis of the municipal water supply utilized by AuRIC at its Salt Lake City laboratory and the water provided by the onsite well at the Columbus Project. Based on information derived from these analyses, we completed the installation of a new water conditioning circuit at the Columbus Project in order to supply process water to the leach circuit similar in character to the water utilized in tests conducted at AuRIC’s Salt Lake City facilities. During the quarter, we also completed upgrades to the onsite gravity concentration circuit in an effort to improve efficiency and reduce potential abrasive wear on the equipment.
Current mining and recovery methodology efforts are focused on transferring the operating parameters developed for the leaching and precious metals recovery components of the extraction circuit from AuRIC’s laboratory to the onsite facilities. As part of this process, we expect to continue to produce and leach concentrates at the pilot plant in approximately one ton batches (five tons of head material), followed by filtration, resin extraction and metal production. In addition, during this period, we expect to continue to upgrade the precious metals extraction equipment for the pilot plant as necessary to improve operating efficiencies and circuit capacity. Once batch extraction rates have been established to our satisfaction, we intend to begin the phase in of operating the pilot plant circuit on a continuous basis, with a target of processing up to 20 tons of head material per day.
We are currently focusing mining and recovery methodology efforts on commencing continuous operations for the pilot plant in 2013. However, this timeline will be dictated by process results, and the availability of personnel and equipment.
If the operation of the pilot plant proves, to our satisfaction, that the Columbus Project is economically viable, we may seek to expand the production permitted area, reconfigure the production process and/or construct additional production circuits within the mill site to increase production capacity. The production model for the Columbus Project is anticipated to be a low cost, high volume mining operation.
Readers are cautioned that, although we believe that the results of our exploration activities to date have been sufficiently positive to proceed with the installation and operation of a pilot processing facility at the Columbus Project millsite, we have not yet established any probable or proven reserves and we have not yet completed a preliminary economic assessment, pre-feasibility or feasibility study. Additional exploration work will be required before probable or proven reserves can be established. There are no assurances that the results of our exploration programs will result in a decision to enter into commercial production.
THE RED MOUNTAIN PROJECT
The Red Mountain Project is a potential gold, silver and tungsten project that consists of 100 unpatented placer federal mineral claims on BLM land covering approximately 13,729 acres, all located in San Bernardino County and Kern County, California. Title to these mineral claims is currently recorded in the names of a number of individuals who, together, make up a mining syndicate known as Red Mountain Mining (“RMM”). We have been notified that some of the claims making up the Red Mountain Project may conflict with other existing mineral claims and other property rights covering the location of the project. We intend to work with RMM in order to resolve these issues.
RIGHTS TO THE RED MOUNTAIN PROJECT
On July 20, 2011, we entered into an amended and restated option agreement for the Red Mountain Project (the “Amended Red Mountain Option”). The Amended Red Mountain Option replaces the Red Mountain Letter Agreement under which we had previously earned a 30.6% undivided interest in the Red Mountain Project. Under the terms of the Amended Red Mountain Option, we have the option (the “Buyout Option”) to buyout all of the optionor’s interest in the Red Mountain Project by paying to the optionor $200,000 in cash and (i) if the Buyout Option is exercised on or before March 31, 2012, issuing to the optionor $2,800,000 worth of our common stock, or (ii) if the Buyout Option is exercised after March 31, 2012, issuing to the optionor $3,800,000 worth of our common stock. If we exercise the Buyout Option, of which there is no assurance, we will own 100% of the Red Mountain Project. We have until December 31, 2016 to exercise the Buyout Option.
To maintain the Buyout Option, we must (i) pay the optionor the sum of $8,000 per month, and (ii) spend a total of $600,000 on the Red Mountain Project. For every $2,000 that we spend on the Red Mountain Project, we will earn an additional 0.1% undivided interest, up to an additional 29.4% undivided interest (which would bring our total undivided interest in the Red Mountain Project to 60.0%). On execution of the Amended Red Mountain Option, we prepaid $35,000 to the optionor to be applied against the monthly payment amounts.
The project acreage of all claims under the Red Mountain Option Agreement now totals 13,729.
Each of the claims making up the Red Mountain Project are unpatented placer federal claims. In order to maintain these claims, we are required to pay annual maintenance fees to the “BLM” by September 1 of each year. Beginning in 2012, the 2012 claim maintenance fees related to association placer claims increased significantly. Previously, we paid $140 per year per placer claim. Claims can be up to 160 acres each. The new regulations require placer claimants to pay a fee of $140 for each twenty acres of a placer claim. The fee for a 160 acre placer claim rose from $140 to $1,120 per claim and our current obligation for the Red Mountain claimed property increased to $96,287 for the 2012 claim year. We are responsible for paying the claim maintenance fees for the Red Mountain claims. Amounts paid to maintain the claims are counted against the amounts we are obligated to spend on the project to maintain our option rights. A summary of the Red Mountain Project Claims was included as an exhibit to this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
LOCATION AND ACCESS
The Red Mountain Project is located at the base of Red Mountain, which is 27 miles south of Ridgecrest in San Bernardino County and Kern County, California, approximately 75 miles northeast of Los Angeles. The Red Mountain Project can be accessed by using a gravel road that bisects the project from northwest to southeast.
The Red Mountain Project does not contain any useable infrastructure other than a water well.
Figure 6: Location of the Red Mountain Project
HISTORY
The Red Mountain Project is east of and adjacent to the Rand Mining District, initially discovered in 1894. The Rand Mining District was mined off and on until just recently for gold, silver and tungsten. The majority of the mines in the area consisted of small independent operations. There is currently no commercial mining occurring on the Red Mountain Project site.
GEOLOGY
The area surrounding the Red Mountain Project is highly mineralized with recorded production of gold, silver and tungsten.
Nanominerals reviewed the Red Mountain Project, including the existing reports on work previously done by RMM. RMM has excavated over 100 test pits at the project site and has gravity concentrated the bulk samples taken from these pits.
Based on a review of the existing reports and a field visit to the Red Mountain Project site, we developed an exploration program to verify the reported gold grades in RMM’s studies and to test the recoverability in order to assess the economic viability of the Red Mountain Project.
CURRENT EXPLORATION
Our exploration program for the Red Mountain Project consists of a drilling and sampling program. The Red Mountain Project is not currently active. We have set a budget of $196,287 for the Red Mountain Project for the 12 months ending December 31, 2013.
ITEM 3.