ITEM 2. Properties.
Description of our Mineral Property Interests
The Peru Property
Our property interests located in Peru are in the exploration stage and we refer to these properties as the "Peru Property." These properties are without known reserves and the proposed plan of exploration detailed below is exploratory in nature. These properties are described below.
We entered into a Mineral Right Option Agreement with Temasek Investments Inc. (“Temasek”), a company incorporated under the laws of Panama, on September 29, 2008 (the “Effective Date”), as amended and supplemented by Amendment No. 1, dated May 12, 2009 (“Amendment No. 1”), Amendment No. 2, dated October 29, 2009 (“Amendment No. 2”), and Amendment No. 3, dated April 8, 2010 (“Amendment No. 3” and collectively, the “Option Agreement”), in order to acquire four separate options from Temasek, each providing for the acquisition of a twenty-five percent interest in certain mineral rights (the “Mineral Rights”) in certain properties in Peru, that after each of the options were exercised would result in our acquisition of an aggregate one hundred percent of the Mineral Rights.
A description of the Mineral Rights is set forth below:
- 19 -
We exercised the initial twenty-five percent option, which provided for the acquisition of a twenty-five percent interest in the Mineral Rights, by paying Temasek a total of $750,000 and issuing 2,000,000 shares of our common stock to Temasek, on or about October 23, 2008 in accordance with the terms of the Option Agreement.
We exercised the second twenty-five percent option, resulting in our acquisition of an aggregate of a fifty percent interest in the Mineral Rights, by paying Temasek an additional $750,000 and issuing an additional 2,500,000 shares of our common stock to Temasek, on or about November 2, 2009 in accordance with the terms of the Option Agreement.
On April 23, 2010, we announced that we completed the exercise of the third and fourth twenty-five percent options, resulting in our acquisition of an aggregate 100% interest in the Mineral Rights, by fulfilling the following conditions:
·
Payment to Temasek of US$1,000,000;
·
Issuance to Temasek of a total of 6,000,000 shares of our common stock (of which Temasek acknowledged that 2,000,000 shares were previously issued to Temasek in November 2009); and
·
Issuance of a convertible note for US$7,000,000 (the “Convertible Note”) payable to the order and the direction of Temasek.
Subsequent to the reporting period on January 20, 2011, $6,300,000 of the principal of the Convertible Note was extinguished and converted into units (the “Units”) using the conversion price of $0.10 per Unit. Each Unit consists of one (1) share of common stock, par value $0.001 per share (“Common Stock”) and one (1) warrant to purchase one (1) share of Common Stock (“Warrant”). Each Warrant is exercisable for a period of eight (8) months from the date of issuance at a price of $0.10 per share. The $700,000 remaining principal of the Convertible Note outstanding has a term of three years and accrues interest at a rate of 12% per annum. Interest under the Convertible Note is payable annually and the principal is payable upon maturity. Any interest and principal due under the Convertible Note is convertible (at Temasek's option) into units which consist of one (1) share of our common stock and one (1) warrant to purchase one (1) share of our common stock at an exercise price of $1.10 per share. The conversion price per unit is fixed at $0.80 per unit.
In connection with our acquisition of an aggregate 100% interest in the Mineral Rights, Temasek is entitled to an annual 2.5% net returns royalty related to the Mineral Rights.
The Mineral Rights are owned by Compañía Minera Marañón S.A.C. (“Minera Marañón”). Bacon Hill Invest Inc. (“Bacon Hill”), a corporation incorporated under the laws of Panama, owns 999 shares of the 1,000 shares of Minera Marañón that are issued and outstanding. The single remaining share of Minera Marañón by Temasek as nominee and on trust for our exclusive and sole benefit and interest. Temasek is obligated at all times to exercise all rights in respect of the share of Minera Marañón it holds strictly in accordance with our instructions. The acquisition of 100% interest in the Mineral Rights occurred through the transfer by Temasek to us of all of the outstanding shares of Bacon Hill.
- 20 -
Expansion of Peru Property
On January 25, 2010 (the “Effective Date”), we entered into a Mineral Rights Option Agreement (the “Option Agreement”) with Temasek. Pursuant to the Option Agreement, we acquired three separate options from Temasek, each providing for the acquisition of an approximately one-third interest in certain mineral rights (the “Mineral Rights”), in certain properties in Peru that abut the other property interests we own in Peru described above. Pursuant to the Option Agreement, the exercise of all three options would result in our acquisition of one hundred percent of the Mineral Rights. The Mineral Rights are currently owned by Minera Saramiriza S.A.C. (“Minera Saramiriza”), a corporation incorporated under the laws of Peru. Woodburn Investments, Inc. (“Woodburn”), a wholly-owned subsidiary of Temasek, owns 999 shares of the 1,000 shares of Minera Saramiriza that are issued and outstanding. Temasek owns the single remaining share of Woodburn. Our acquisition of each thirty-three percent interest in the Mineral Rights is structured to occur through the transfer to us of thirty-three percent of the outstanding shares of Woodburn upon the exercise of each of the three options.
A description of the Mineral Rights is set forth below:
We may exercise the initial option to acquire a thirty-three percent interest in the Mineral Rights by fulfilling the following conditions:
·
Issuance of 500,000 shares of our common stock to Temasek within thirty (30) days from the Effective Date (issued March 19, 2010);
·
Payment of $250,000 to Temasek within twelve months of the Effective Date (paid on January 24, 2011); and
·
Issuance of 1,000,000 shares of our common stock to Temasek or its designee within twelve months of the Effective Date (issued January 27, 2011).
Subsequent to the reporting period, we exercised the initial thirty-three percent option and acquired a thirty-three percent interest in the Mineral Rights by paying to Temasek the balance of the consideration required to exercise the initial thirty-three percent option. Since the execution of the Option Agreement, we have paid a total of $250,000 and have issued 1,500,000 shares of our common stock to Temasek in accordance with the terms of the Option Agreement.
We may exercise the second option to acquire the second, thirty-three percent interest in the Mineral Rights, resulting in the acquisition of a sixty-six percent interest in the Mineral Rights, by fulfilling the following conditions:
- 21 -
·
Exercise of the initial option to acquire a thirty-three percent interest in the Mineral Rights;
·
Payment of an additional $1,000,000 to Temasek within twenty-four months of the Effective Date (January 25, 2012); and
·
Issuance of an additional 1,000,000 shares of our common stock to Temasek or its designee within twenty-four months from the Effective Date (January 25, 2012).
We may exercise the third option to acquire the final, thirty-four percent interest in the Mineral Rights, resulting in the acquisition of a one-hundred percent interest in the Mineral Rights, by fulfilling the following conditions:
·
Exercise of the first and second options to acquire an aggregate sixty-six percent interest in the Mineral Rights;
·
Payment of an additional $2,000,000 to Temasek within thirty-six months of the Effective Date (January 25, 2013); and
·
Issuance of an additional 2,000,000 shares of our common stock to Temasek or its designee within thirty-six months from the Effective Date (January 25, 2013).
Upon our acquisition of a 100% interest in the Mineral Rights, Temasek is entitled to an annual 2.5% net returns royalty. However, if we pay Temasek an additional $2,000,000 within ninety (90) days of its acquisition of a 100% interest in the Mineral Rights, Temasek will only be entitled to an annual 1.0% net returns royalty from us.
If we exercise the second, thirty-three percent option, resulting in the acquisition of a sixty-six percent interest in the Mineral Rights, but fail to exercise the final option and fail to acquire a 100% interest in the Mineral Rights, we and Temasek will form a joint venture in which we will be wholly responsible for developing a feasible mining project and all necessary facilities and Temasek shall retain a carried free interest in the mining rights. If we do not develop a feasible mining project within three years of the Effective Date, we will be required to pay Temasek an advance minimum mining royalty of $500,000 per year, which will be deducted from Temasek's net return royalty.
Exploration Program
Shortly after our initial acquisition of the property interests in Peru in September 2008, we commenced the initial stages of our exploration and development program and carried out the following activities:
·
Completed an initial social base line study to document all surface rights owners and people resident in the project area;
·
Implemented a community relations program to inform local communities of the project and what potential opportunities that may exist for community involvement in the implementation phases of the development program;
·
Submitted a Declaración de Impacto Ambiental to the Ministry of Mines and Energy in Peru and received approval to start the exploration;
·
Completed the field work for the Evaluación de Impacto Ambiental semidetallado which, if approved by the Peruvian Ministry of Mines & Energy, will allow us to undertake extensive drilling and bulk sampling programs;
·
Acquired churn drilling equipment for further evaluation and development of resources;
·
Set-up an operational base in the project area in the town of Saramiriza to continuously review the exploration program and prior experiences gained operating in this difficult terrain;
·
Contracted various consulting firms and experienced and knowledgeable individuals with specific skills in the exploration of alluvial deposits to assist us with the exploration and development of the Peru property; and
·
Commissioned and subsequently received a preliminary master plan which indicated the size and scope of our projected operations and areas where more information is required.
- 22 -
The principle objective of our planned exploration and development program is to bring a dredge and appropriately matched floating plant onto the property to assist us in conducting trial mining tests which requires that we undertake the following actions:
·
Drill an area on the property where known mineralization exists at closely-spaced centers in accordance with mining industry standards;
·
Extend the resource though a wider-spaced program of reconnaissance drilling so as to indicate the potential size of the deposit;
·
Perform additional geotechnical and metallurgical studies to complement existing information in order to prepare the optimum processing route to be adopted in the exploitation phase; and
·
Prepare scoping, prefeasibility, and full feasibility studies.
In the first quarter of 2009, a churn drill and ancillary equipment were purchased in the United States and shipped to Peru. The equipment cost approximately $85,000 and we acquired such funds through the issuance of securities in private equity offerings. After the process of importation and transport to site, the initial phase of the drilling program on the project commenced in late July 2009. Drilling capabilities were increased by the purchase of a second-hand bangka drilling rig at a cost of $15,000.
Gold bearing gravels were intersected in virtually all of the twenty-six (26) holes drilled as part of this initial drilling program with the better mineralized horizons returning values in the 60 to 200 mg/m3 range (generally, grades in excess of 60 mg/m3 are considered economically viable) with reconnaissance holes up to 15 km apart indicating the widespread distribution of gold throughout the Marañón basin.
Concurrent with the drilling, pitting was carried out at locations where significant gold mineralization was encountered in drilling. Pitting on the same site as one of the bangka holes gave comparable gold values for the bulk sample from the pit and the bangka drill sample, 213 mg/m3 and 208 mg/m3 respectively, indicating that bangka drilling appears to be an effective evaluation method. In addition, river bank gravel outcrops and artisanal mine workings have been channel sampled and sedimentological studies have been carried out. Again, virtually all samples taken in these programs have contained some level of gold. Channel sampling of exposures in artisanal workings in paleo channels indicate average grades in the range of 120 to 350 mg/m3 with local accumulations of gold up to 550 mg/m3.
In the fourth quarter of 2009, we retained the services of an internationally recognized alluvial expert to direct and monitor the on-going exploration program, review results and ensure procedures conform to industry standards.
Detailed processing of the heavy mineral concentrates from the samples indicated a relationship between gold values and magnetite content, the two minerals being deposited together in “alluvial traps” (paleo channels) within the Marañón’s immense braided river system. The association of the gold with magnetic minerals provides a potential means of locating concentrations of mineralization. During the first quarter of 2010, we completed ground magnetic surveys over areas where mineralized gravels have been identified in order to obtain a “magnetic fingerprint”.
Based on the results from the initial phase of the drilling program and the ground magnetic surveys, we planned a Phase II drilling campaign that commenced in April 2010 and was recently completed in October 2010. In preparation for commencing this second phase of drilling activity, we further increased our drilling capabilities by purchasing two additional bangka drills that were manufactured and delivered to the property site in April 2010. The objective of this drilling was to determine if we can define reserves of sufficient size to sustain a fleet of high capacity dredges and floating plants in the future. The Phase II drilling campaign cost approximately US$500,000 to complete. The Phase II 100-hole program consisted of definition drilling within a 2.5 square kilometer grid “GSDG1” situated over a large paleo channel that was successfully drilled during the 26-hole initial phase of the drilling program referenced above. The grid was comprised of 4 lines, equally spaced at 250 meters apart. Along each line, holes were drilled every 100 meters to depths of up to 15 meters. Bulk samples collected by excavating small pits and shafts were used for metallurgical testing as well as to confirm drill results.
- 23 -
As a result of the Phase II drilling campaign, we have been able to identify three large, variable-grade systems of mineralization. These systems lie near the surface and are at least 100 meters wide, an average of 2.5 meters deep and no less than 600 meters in length. The first system of gold mineralization, which we refer to as “HBD-33”, was discovered near the mid-point of GSDG1. Five holes were drilled using hand Banka drills at 20-meter spacing. The drilling yielded average gold grades of 159.3mg/cubic meter (within a range of 101.1 to 216.0 mg/cubic meter). The width of the potential pay horizons averages 3.07 meters (10.07 feet) with a range of 2.2 meters to 4.70 meters. The gold is contained in volcanic-quartz type fluvial gravels beneath an average of only 2.73 meters (8.95 feet) of sandy overburden. The second system of gold mineralization, which we refer to as “HBD-XX” trends northeast-southwest through GSDG1. Drilling, at 30-meter spacing, during the Phase II program outlined an average grade of 86 mg/cubic meter along a linear 110 meter (361 feet) channel with an average width of 40 meters (131 feet). The third system of gold mineralization returned values as high as 286.5 mg/m3 over a width of 60m and a thickness of 2.0 meters.
In the absence of significant additional drilling, we will be unable to quantify the boundaries of the alluvial gold mineralization and identify concentrations associated with paleo channels. We caution that results we received from the Phase II drilling campaign do not in any way indicate the presence of a commercially viable mineral deposit. Our exploration program is building data in order to compile an estimate of probable reserves and make a later determination as to whether a commercially viable mineral deposit exists on the properties underlying our mineral property interests in Perú. A great deal of further exploration is required before a final evaluation as to the economic and legal feasibility of future exploration is determined.
Based on these results, we sought to implement a small-scale test mining operation on the 2.5 square kilometer grid that was the subject of our Phase II drilling campaign as a preliminary step towards determining the feasibility of full-scale production. We believe that a pilot operation should deliver important data that reflects on the potential dredging and gold separation possibilities of this project. A small-scale test mining operation will also be helpful to determine if the proposed gold separation equipment is viable in the project's environment and if the recoverable grades of gold are sufficient to sustain such an operation.
On January 18, 2011, we entered into an Agreement (the “Agreement”) with Swiss Mining S.A., a limited liability company organized and incorporated under the laws of Perú (“Swiss Mining”). Pursuant to the Agreement, Swiss Mining will carry out a test mining operation on the MIKA 2 concession located in the Peruvian Province of Datem del Marañon, District of Manseriche (the “MIKA 2 Concession”). The area encompassing the MIKA 2 concession is the 2.5 square kilometer grid that was the subject of the our Phase II drilling campaign.
Swiss Mining will be responsible and liable for all work, services, labor, materials, equipment, supplies and other related costs necessary to implement the test mining operation. The costs related to this test mining operation, which is expected to involve the processing of approximately 150,000 cubic meters of placer material, are anticipated to be approximately US $425,000. The parties have agreed to an allocation of revenues, if any, from the sale or other disposition of ores, concentrates or minerals produced from the MIKA 2 concession (“Net Returns”) equal to thirty percent (30%) to us and seventy percent (70%) to Swiss Mining until the agreed upon costs of US $425,000 are fully covered. Thereafter, any Net Returns beyond this cost recovery shall be divided equally between Swiss Mining and us on a 50/50 basis. Notwithstanding the foregoing, we agree to negotiate a different allocation of Net Returns so long as Swiss Mining has not recovered its costs of US $425,000 should the price of gold drop below US $1300 per ounce or increase above $1500 per ounce for at least 5 consecutive business days.
The test mining operation commenced on March 28, 2011 and we anticipate it will continue for a duration of six months. Under the terms of the Agreement, we have the right to monitor, at our own expense, all activities performed by Swiss Mining or its subcontractors under this Agreement including, but not be limited to, the right to make site inspections at any time, to bring experts and consultants onsite to examine or evaluate work in progress or completed work, to examine the books, ledgers, documents, papers, and records pertinent to this Agreement and to observe personnel in every phase of their performance of the related work.
Initial results from the test mining operation appear to be favorable, but we caution that these results have not been independently verified and could be the product of isolated hot spots indicating higher than usual gold yields in the material mined. For this reason, we are not going to extrapolate any data based upon the yields to date or reach any conclusions about potential alluvial gold yields based on the limited data we have received from just a few weeks from the test mining operation. We will require significantly more data in order to determine whether the objectives of the test mining operations have been satisfied.
- 24 -
In the event that the foregoing test mining operation on the MIKA 2 concession provides data that reflects positively on the potential dredging and gold separation possibilities of this project, we plan to design a Phase III drilling campaign to expand the Phase II drill program beyond the initial 2.5 square kilometer exploration area to other areas of suspected high mineralization within the Peru Property consisting of a total of 461 square kilometers in order to further define the resource and potential of the project. However, the implementation of any further drilling activity is dependent on our ability to a secure additional financing. If we are unable to secure additional financing for these activities, we will be unable to commence a Phase III drilling campaign until such time that we are able to secure sufficient financing.
In addition to the foregoing drilling program, we intend to carry out the geophysical evaluation of the property and plan to continue drilling and test pitting for a period of at least 18 months. We are also conducting mine development planning, process design, and other engineering studies will be conducted with a view toward completing a feasibility study within a twenty-four month period. Permitting is anticipated to be initiated as early in the exploration and development cycle as possible, so that trial or pilot dredging can be started as soon as feasibility has been established.
In May 2010, we initiated the process for expanding our drill permits and also are concluding the Environmental Impact permit, which will allow us to explore the entire area that comprises the Peru Property and allow for drilling of up to 428 additional holes.
While we have commenced our planned exploration program, we must secure additional financing in order to be able to sustain drilling activity beyond the scope of the foregoing test mining operation and commence a Phase III drilling campaign or we will be forced to cease our exploration and development program. We anticipate that we will incur the following exploration costs for the year ending December 31, 2011:
Location and Access
At this time, the Gold Sands Project in Peru is our principal project. It comprises an area of 46,100 ha (461 kilometers) along the interface of the Andean chain and the Amazon foreland basin in northeastern Peru. We have established land positions in two out of the three alluvial camps that exist in this area (the Alegría, Condorcanqui, and Manseriche Alluvial Camps). Of these, the Manseriche Camp is the largest. These camps straddle the boundary of the Loreto (eastern) and Amazonas (western) departments of Northeastern Peru approximately 350 kilometers from the regional center of Iquitos (population 400,000) which lies on the Amazon River. Both Iquitos to the east, as well as Tarapoto to the south are served with daily flights from Lima. The project area can be reached from either of these towns by charter flights while supplies and heavy equipment can be barged in from either Yurimaguas (on the Rio Huallaga) or Iquitos, or trucked in from Bagua on a fair weather road to the village of Saramiriza located in the center of the Manseriche Alluvial Camp along the southwestern bank of the Rio Marañón, roughly in the center of the project area. We have established a logistics and administration base in the village of Saramiriza located in the center of the Manseriche field on the southeastern bank of the Rio Marañón.
- 25 -
The following map shows the general location of the Mineral Rights we initially acquired in Peru:
- 26 -
The following map shows the general location of the mineral rights that abut the Mineral Rights depicted above which we acquired to expand our property interests in Peru:
- 27 -
Previous Exploration History
A description of the work carried out on the property which comprises the Mineral Rights since its discovery is as follows:
Geology and Mineralization
According to reports of the Ministry of Mines & Energy (MEM), Peru annually produces some six million ounces of gold. Of this, nearly fifty percent is derived from Peru’s largest gold mine, Yanacocha (Newmont), and close to ten percent comes from the alluvial workings in the Madre de Dios river system. Alluvial production in Peru has recently risen from about 200000 oz Au in 1991 to over 500000 oz Au in 2005.
- 28 -
Although Peru has numerous small alluvial gold occurrences, it is generally agreed that there are only four major alluvial gold fields: Marañón-Santiago, Iquitos, Ucayali, and Madre de Dios. Large scale alluvial gold deposits tend to form in environments associated with convergent plate boundaries, particularly at the interface between fold belts and foreland basins. In addition, a necessary requirement for the development of such gold deposits is a metaliferous (gold-rich) hinterland and a river system that can transfer gold from the zone of production in the upper reaches of the drainage basin, along the main trunk of the river system (zone of transfer) to the zone of deposition, usually where the river profile flattens-out at the limit between the highlands and alluvial plains.
In the case of the Manseriche Alluvial Camp, the Marañón and Santiago rivers rise from peak elevations of 2900 meters and 3500 meters respectively, and travel a distance of some 900 kilometers before converging at the Manseriche Gorge which lies at an elevation of 170 m asl. From there, the Marañón (and later the Amazon) must travel another 4000 kilometers before reaching the Atlantic Ocean. With respect to a metalliferous hinterland, the Marañón-Santiago drainage basin is home to some of the largest gold deposits and gold mining operations in the world. These include Newmont’s Yanacocha (40 m oz Au), Goldfield’s Cerro Corona (which currently produce 350000 oz Au per annum), and Aurelian’s Fruta del Norte deposit (14 m oz Au).
While the geology of the project area has no effect on the gold mineralization other than the morphological control of the Rio Marañón, it is the sequence of geological events which has importance in the formation of the “gold sands” in the Manseriche Camp.
The age of most of the gold mineralization in the highlands of the Marañón-Santiago river system is tertiary, and specifically Miocene. However, Eocene-aged tectonism resulted in the formation of the eastern foothills of the Andes which effectively formed a barrier directing all erosion from the hinterland towards a basin on the western side of the Manseriche Gorge. Glacial erosion of the gold deposits in the hinterland resulted in tills and moraines which were subsequently concentrated in glacio-fluvial deposits by melting ice and intense rains in interglacial periods of which a number have been identified in Peru. These sediments were retained by the eastern fold belt of anticlines.
What may have been a key event was the Pajacuas thrust event during the Pliocene Era, which led to the breaching of the closed basin and the subsequent formation of the Manseriche Gorge. This released the gold-rich glacio-fluvial sediments to be reconcentrated and deposited in the Rio Marañón flood plain east of the Gorge.
The sequence of constant erosion, glacio-fluvial concentration, fluvial transport, collection in an intermediate (or series of intermediate) basin(s), and final alluvial concentration in the Rio Marañón flood plain, provided the mixing and concentration which accounts for the regular gold values in the sands and gravels as indicated by the Cia Monica de Iquitos report.
Termination of Agreement Relating to Possible Acquisition of Nevada Mineral Claims and Leasehold Interests
On September 27, 2010, we announced the mutual termination of the previously announced Asset Purchase Agreement, dated as of April 1, 2010, as amended by Amendment No. 1, dated as of July 13, 2010 (collectively, the “Purchase Agreement”), with Seabridge Gold Corporation, a Nevada corporation (“Seabridge”), Pacific Intermountain Gold Corporation, a Nevada corporation (“PIGC”), and Seabridge Gold Inc., a Canadian corporation (“SEA”) (collectively, Seabridge, PIGC and SEA are referred to as “Seabridge”). The Purchase Agreement set forth the terms under which we were to have purchased all of Seabridge’s interests in certain exploration properties located in Nevada, along with certain data and contracts related thereto. The parties agreement to terminate the Purchase Agreement was effective as of September 23, 2010. Under the terms of the Purchase Agreement, we are not entitled to recover: (i) our $302,260 payment to Seabridge for property fees due to the Bureau of Land Management in July 2010, (ii) our $200,000 payment to Seabridge made in exchange for a no-shop provision in the letter of intent entered into between the parties, and (iii) our $25,000 payment made on August 20, 2010, or a total of $527,260.
- 29 -
Termination of Assignment Agreements for Argentinean Properties
On December 12, 2007, we entered into an assignment agreement with Proyectos Mineros S.A. (“PMSA”) (formerly Recursos Maricunga S.A.) to acquire PMSA’s right to explore and an option to purchase certain mineral rights on properties known as the Atena Gold Project located in the Salta Province of Argentina (the “Atena Property”). Effective March 17, 2008, we entered into an assignment agreement with PMSA, whereby PMSA assigned to us PMSA’s right to explore and an option to purchase a 90% interest in the mineral rights of three mining properties referred to as “Amira”, “Amira Norte” and “Esparta II”, located in the Province of Salta, Argentina (the “Amira-Esparta Properties”). On January 8, 2008, we entered into an assignment agreement with PMSA to acquire PMSA’s right to explore and option to purchase certain mineral rights on properties known as the Cerro Amarillo Property located in the Departamento Malargue, Province of Mendoza, Argentina (the “Cerro Amarillo Property”). We collectively refer to the Atena, Amira-Esparta and Cerro Amarillo Properties as the “Argentinean Properties.”
In light of the current economic environment, our management, in the second quarter of fiscal 2009, determined that it was necessary to reassess the Company’s current direction and proposed plans for exploration. In connection with this review, we announced that we were suspending our exploration program on the Argentinean Properties for at least the remainder of 2009 and would allocate our resources exclusively to pursue the exploration and development of our property interests in northeastern Peru.
We continued to monitor the current economic environment globally and within Argentina and noted an increasing trend toward instability within Argentina. Rising and excessive inflation rates in Argentina significantly increased the costs of our proposed operations in Argentina beyond our initial expectations. After further evaluation, we noted that Argentinean governmental bodies were pursing policies and regulations which would have adversely impacted our planned operations in Argentina. The existence of a working capital deficiency added support to our conclusion that it is presently not the best allocation of our resources to conduct exploration activities in two different countries. For the foregoing reasons, we determined it to be in our best interest to seek to dispose of our interests in the Argentinean Properties as soon as practicable so as to prevent any default on any of these underlying option agreements.
We reviewed our available alternatives and canvassed a number of qualified parties in an attempt to dispose of our interests in the Argentinean properties for value. As a result of our inability to locate an interested party to enter into a transaction to dispose of our interests in the Argentinean Properties for value, we determined to terminate each of the assignment agreements under which we held the option to acquire the mineral and mining rights underlying these Argentinean properties. We determined that terminating these assignment agreements at this time was in our best interests in order to avoid incurring any additional obligations under each of the respective assignment agreements. In November 2009, we sent each of the notice of termination letters. The termination of the assignment agreement relating to Atena and Amira-Esparta Properties was effective immediately and the termination date of the assignment agreement relating to the Cerro Amarillo Property was effective thirty days following the date of the termination notice.
As a result of our termination of each of the assignment agreements under which we held the option to acquire the mineral and mining rights underlying properties located in the Salta and Mendoza provinces of Argentina, our rights under these agreements reverted back to the assignor and we are not be entitled to recover any of the consideration we have paid, which is an aggregate of 4,100,000 shares of our common stock and $70,000 in cash. Proyectos Mineros S.A. (“PMSA”) (formerly Recursos Maricunga S.A.) is the assignor for each of the properties located in the Salta and Mendoza provinces of Argentina. Dr. Willem Fuchter, who served as our Chief Executive Officer and member of our board of directors from January 10, 2008 until his resignation from both positions on September 25, 2009, is the president and director of PMSA and holds a 50% ownership interest in the voting securities of PMSA.
- 30 -
ITEM 3.