ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
Gold Hill Projects
Overview
We hold leasehold interests within the Gold Hill Mining District in Tooele County, Utah, consisting of 247 unpatented mining claims, of which 246 are lode claims, and one is an unpatented mill site claim. This includes 42 patented claims, and three Utah state mineral leases located on state trust lands, all covering approximately 12 square miles. We have assembled all of our claims and leases in this district to create a sizeable, contiguous property package on which to conduct regional-scale exploration. Therefore, we intend to maintain our leasehold interest in the remaining mining claims for future exploration, if warranted.
During the year ended December 31, 2009, we entered into a Joint Venture Agreement with the Moeller Family Trust for the lease of the Trust’s Yellow Hammer property in the Gold Hill Mining District of Utah. Pursuant to the agreement, if we do not place the Yellow Hammer property into commercial production within a three-year period we will be required to make annual penalty payments to the Trust of $50,000. The Yellow Hammer property operated for several months in 2011. Under the terms of the Joint Venture Agreement, we are required to pay a 6% net smelter royalty on the production of base metals and a net smelter royalty on gold and silver based on a sliding scale of between 2% and 15% based on the price of gold and silver, as applicable. There were no sales and no royalty expense on this property in 2016 or in 2015. This property has been fully reclaimed with reclamation approval received by the State of Utah and the property has been released back to the Moeller Family Trust.
Also, during the year ended December 31, 2009, we entered into a Joint Venture Agreement with the Clifton Mining Company and the Woodman Mining Company for the lease of their property interests in the Gold Hill Mining District of Utah. Under the terms of the Joint Venture Agreement, we are required to pay a 4% net smelter royalty on base metals in all other areas except for production from the Kiewit gold property and a net smelter royalty on gold and silver, except for production from the Kiewit gold property, based on a sliding scale of between 2% and 15% based on the price of gold or silver, as applicable. We are also required to pay a 6% net smelter return on any production from the Kiewit gold property. Additionally, if we do not place the Kiewit property, the Clifton Shears-Smelter Tunnel property, and the Cane Springs property into commercial production within a three year period, we will be required to make annual penalty payments to Clifton Mining in the amount of $50,000 per location. The Cane Springs property penalty payment was not made in 2013 and this claim was released back to Clifton Mining at that time. We had not begun commercial production and the annual penalty payments due on July 24, 2014 were made on July 22, 2014 and accepted by Clifton Mining for the Clifton Shears and Kiewit properties.
On January 6, 2014, we obtained the final permit necessary to commence construction of the heap leach pad and process facility. On February 20, 2014, the Kiewit reclamation bond in the amount of $1,348,000 was posted with the State of Utah, Division of Oil, Gas and Mining. We constructed a 750,000 square foot heap leach facility and a carbon column process plant near the Kiewit site to accommodate the disseminated gold material from the Kiewit project. Construction was substantially complete by September 2014. On July 7, 2016, we replaced the $1,348,000 cash reclamation bond with a surety bond in the same amount. A condition of the surety bond was the deposit of 50% of the bond amount ($674,000) into an escrow account with the bonding company. The surety bond carries an annual bonding fee of $40,400, which is expensed as a financing fee. Total reclamation bonds posted at December 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015 are $752,754 and $1,418,070, respectively, which consists of the above escrowed amount along with certificate of deposits held with the State of Utah for the remaining bonds on the property, including exploration bonds..
We have commenced extraction of mineralized material from the Kiewit lode claims and we earned gross revenue in 2016 in the amount of $1,278,726. Royalties and mining severance tax based on production were due to Clifton Mining Company and the State of Utah, respectively, beginning in November 2014 and initial payments have been made. Severance tax and royalties have been paid on revenue through December 2016. At December 31, 2016, we had currently accrued but unpaid royalties of $3,354 that were subsequently paid in 2017. Our first metal sales from the Kiewit property occurred in October 2014. Due to ongoing financial problems associated with our lender, DMRJ Group, we suspended operations in the fall of 2017. After terminating our agreement with DMRJ Group in March of 2018, we are working towards restarting the operation.
We do not have any current plans to conduct material exploration activity on the remaining Utah claims until and unless we are able to generate revenue from planned activities on our Kiewit project claims. At this time we do not consider these additional claims to be material to our current operating plan.
Project Location and Access
The Gold Hill Mining District is located in the Gold Hill and the Clifton 7½ minute quadrangles in western Utah. The district includes the north end of the Deep Creek Mountains, one of the nearly north-south ranges that are common in the Great Basin. On the east and north, the mountain area is separated by gravel slopes from the flat plain of the Great Salt Lake Desert, and on the west it is bounded by the Deep Creek Valley and groups of irregular low hills. It is approximately 190 miles west-southwest of Salt Lake City, Utah, and approximately 56 miles south southeast of Wendover, Utah. The project is reached by taking Alternate 93A south from Wendover approximately 28 miles and turning east on to the Ibapah Highway, a paved two lane road. Approximately 17 miles east is a maintained two lane county road which provides access to the property approximately 11 miles southeast to the town of Gold Hill, Utah. Each of the claims and the mill site are accessible by dirt roads maintained year-round by us and Tooele County. Access to the property is maintained all year and we likewise intend to maintain roadways between the mining claims, the mill site and paved roads all year.
Mineral extraction activities on the property at this time will be open-pit with heap leach processing. We anticipate conducting underground exploration in the future.
History
The Gold Hill area is one of the oldest mining districts in the State of Utah. It reflects 43 known historical producing deposits mined primarily from the mid-1800s until the end of World War II. These deposits included gold, silver, copper, bismuth, lead, zinc, tungsten, arsenic, molybdenum, cobalt, and beryllium. Exploration and mining activities commenced in the mid-1800s as travel westward through the area to California was at its peak. Lead mineralization first attracted the attention of travelers prompting early prospecting. Placer gold was first discovered in the Gold Hill area in 1858. These early prospectors were hampered by repeated attacks of local Native American tribes and the area was abandoned until 1869 when the settlements of Gold Hill and Clifton were reestablished.
A lead smelter was constructed at Clifton in 1872 and relocated to Gold Hill in 1874. However, mining activity did not commence in earnest until 1892 when a mill and smelter were constructed at Gold Hill. Substantial quantities of gold and silver ore were processed at this site between 1892 and 1896. Mining activity gradually diminished until 1905 when exploration for copper revived the area. With the outbreak of World War I and the completion of the Deep Creek Railroad between Gold Hill and Wendover, a new revival of interest in the area commenced. Gold, silver, copper and lead were produced and approximately 3,000 residents lived in Gold Hill and Clifton at the time.
Tungsten was produced beginning in 1912. Significant amounts of gold and bismuth were also reportedly extracted during this period. Two mines produced tungsten in 1914 and 1917 and were operated primarily for the strategic requirement of tungsten during the two world wars. Gold and silver mining ceased completely with the beginning of World War II since the few remaining miners focused their attention on the production of strategic metals such as arsenic and tungsten to support the war effort.
Arsenic was produced beginning with the outbreak of World War I and was used primarily for pesticides in the cotton fields of the south. Two former copper producers also produced arsenic between 1923 and 1925. One of the mines reopened during World War II to produce arsenic for the war effort. None of the arsenic deposits previously mined are located on our claims.
The first large-scale geological study of the area was published in 1935 by T. B. Nolan as U.S. Geological Survey Professional Paper 177 and is referred to herein as the Nolan Report. The Nolan Report provided the first detailed data on the mining district.
The mining district remained largely dormant during the period after World War II through the mid-1970s. Between this period and the mid-1990s, several mining companies began to consolidate the fragmented land holdings in the area and a more regional-scale exploration operation was conducted. In 1993 Clifton Mining Company acquired several of the mining claims in the area and subsequently purchased Woodman Mining Company which also held claims in the district. After purchase of the claims, Clifton Mining commenced additional exploration activities and in 1997 developed road access up the Clifton Hills area. Clifton completed construction of a 50 ton per day mill at the Cactus Mill site and started construction of a 500 ton per day gravity-flotation mill at the same location. In 1999 Clifton Mining borrowed funds which financed upgrades to the mill.
Between 1994 and 1997 Kennecott Utah Copper, now owned by Rio Tinto, explored a large region of the district. In December 2002 Clifton Mining and Woodman Mining entered into an option-joint venture agreement with Dumont Nickel Inc., which in 2010 changed its name to DNI Metals Inc. The joint venture ultimately covered approximately 10.3 square miles of mineral properties but did not include the Yellow Hammer claims which were controlled by the Moeller family. In 2003 Dumont commenced exploring the properties with the objective of identifying bulk mineable gold, copper and silver targets through regional work as well as several drill programs. Beginning in 2004 Dumont completed a regional-scale grid and reconnaissance rock and soil sampling exploration program with detailed, targeted exploration work over the Clifton Shears Corridor, the Kiewit Zone and the prior zone owned by Kennecott. Ultimately, Dumont determined that the scale of the project was too small and decided to sell its interest in the project. In July 2009 Dumont completed the sale of all its mineral properties in this area to Clifton Mining Company for $255,000 cash and a 0.5% net smelter return royalty against future production proceeds from the Cane Springs Property and from portions of the Kiewit project claims. The joint venture and the option agreement were both dissolved and terminated.
Climate and Vegetation
The Gold Hill area lies within the region of the interior drainage that includes western Utah and most of Nevada, and, like the remaining portions of that area, is a high desert semiarid climate. The area is composed of a highly dissected group of hills of relatively low relief. The elevation of Gold Hill village is 5,321 feet. The Gold Hill area is bounded on the east by the Great Salt Lake Desert at an altitude of about 4,300 feet, on the north by Dutch Mountain with a higher elevation of 7,735 feet, on the west by Clifton Flat at an approximate elevation of 6,600 feet, and on the south by Montezuma Peak with an elevation of 7,369 feet.
Pronounced differences in temperatures between night and day are common, with the dryness of the air mitigating the high temperatures which predominate the summer days. Annual precipitation averages approximately 12 inches with about half falling in the months from February to May. Rainfall during summer to early fall is commonly in the form of severe thunderstorms. Snow may be expected between October and May. Fieldwork in the area is generally permitted throughout most of the year.
The higher portions of the Deep Creek Range and small areas near the summits of the adjoining mountains support a fairly heavy growth of yellow pine. The lower slopes of these mountains have a sparse covering of juniper and piñon trees. On the lower hills and on the gravel slopes surrounding them these trees give way to sagebrush. The floor of the Great Salt Lake Desert in the north-east corner of the district is almost completely barren of vegetation.
Title to the Claims
There are significant differences between the ownership rights associated with patented mining claims and those associated with unpatented mining claims. The granting of a patent is a relinquishment by the United States of its ownership of the land patented, and is the origin of private ownership of such land. Thus, the owner of a patented mining claim has a fee simple title to the mining claim so patented. The original locator and each subsequent owner of an unpatented mining claim, on the other hand, has only “possessory” title which is dependent upon maintaining possession and is subject to a paramount title of the United States. A mining claim locator’s possessory right is established by the physical act of “location” of an unpatented mining claim for minerals such as gold and silver on un-appropriated public land that is open to mineral location, and remains valid so long as the unpatented mining claim is maintained in compliance with the Mining Law of 1872, as amended, and other federal and state laws and regulations. Such laws and regulations require a mineral discovery, the making of the mining claim on the ground in a specific way, and the making of annual payments to the U.S. Department of the Interior, Bureau of Land Management, referred to herein as the BLM, in order to maintain the unpatented mining claim. Because possessory title is dependent upon the factual basis of these requirements, a determination that appropriate documents have been recorded in the county in which the mining claim is located and filed with the BLM does not ensure valid possessory title.
A valid unpatented mining claim may be held indefinitely and the mineral deposit mined without obtaining a patent from the United States. There is no requirement that royalties be paid to the United States for minerals produced from unpatented mining claims. However, proposals repeatedly have been introduced into Congress that would substantially modify the Mining Law of 1872 which could require, among other things, the payment of royalties to the United States.
We believe that we hold valid leasehold interests in all of our Utah mining claims and state leases, in particular, the seven unpatented lode mining claims known as the Kiewit claims, and the unpatented mill site on the Cactus Mill property. Nevertheless, there may exist conflicting interests in these claims. In 1996 Clifton Mining obtained possessory title to the Cactus Mill site under a quitclaim deed from American Consolidated Mining Co., which had previously quitclaimed the site to another entity which recorded the deed after Clifton Mining. Because Utah has a race notice recording statute and the Clifton Mining deed was recorded first, management believes Clifton Mining holds valid possessory title to the site which has been leased to us. In addition, a quitclaim deed recorded in 2009 from International Minerals & Metals Inc. and IMM-Dworkin Holdings, LLC to Clifton Mining references a royalty agreement granting a 0.5% royalty in favor of the grantors over a portion of the claims including the Kiewit claims. No royalty deed has been recorded and management has been unable to locate the royalty deed. Nevertheless, this royalty obligation may exist in favor of the original grantors. Management does not believe that any of the exceptions to clear possessory title to the claims raises a material risk to planned operations and Clifton Mining has agreed to indemnify and hold us harmless from certain potential encumbrances.
Glossary
Development: A development project is one which is undergoing preparation of an established commercially mineable deposit for its extraction, but which is not yet in production. This stage occurs after completion of a feasibility study.
Exploration: An exploration prospect is one which is not in either the development or production stage.
Fault: A break in the continuity of a body of rock. It is accompanied by a movement on one side of the break or the other so that what were once parts of one continuous rock stratum or vein are now separated. The amount of displacement of the parts may range from a few inches to thousands of feet.
Fold: A curve or bend of a planar structure such as rock strata, bedding planes, foliation, or cleavage.
Formation: A distinct layer of sedimentary rock of similar composition.
Heap Leach: A mineral processing method involving the crushing and stacking of an ore on an impermeable liner upon which solutions are sprayed that dissolve metals such as gold and copper; the solutions containing the metals are then collected and treated to recover the metals.
Mapped or Geological: The recording of geologic information such as the distribution and nature of rock.
Mapping: Units and the occurrence of structural features, mineral deposits, and fossil localities.
Mineral: A naturally formed chemical element or compound having a definite chemical composition and, usually, a characteristic crystal form.
Mineralization: A natural occurrence in rocks or soil of one or more metal yielding minerals.
Mineralized Material: The term “mineralized material” refers to material that is not included in the reserve as it does not meet all of the criteria for adequate demonstration for economic or legal extraction.
Mining: Mining is the process of extraction and beneficiation of mineral reserves to produce a marketable metal or mineral product. Exploration continues during the mining process and, in many cases, mineral reserves are expanded during the life of the mine operations as the exploration potential of the deposit is realized.
Production Stage: A “production stage” project is actively engaged in the process of extraction and beneficiation of mineral reserves to produce a marketable metal or mineral product.
Sedimentary: Formed by the deposition of sediment.
Shear: A form of strain resulting from stresses that cause or tend to cause contiguous parts of a body of rock to slide relatively to each other in a direction parallel to their plane of contact.
Vein: A thin, sheet-like crosscutting body of hydrothermal mineralization, principally quartz.
Geology
Our Gold Hill project is underlain by Carboniferous limestone and shale units of the Ochre Mountain Limestone, Manning Canyon, and Ochre Formations. Two distinctly separate igneous plutons intrude the sediments: a Jurassic granodiorite in the north and an Oliglocene quartz-monzonite in the south. Intense structural preparation is exhibited in different forms throughout the property with extensive primary north south fracturing exhibited in most areas. Considerable east-west fracturing exists in the center of the project area and appears to control and/or host mineral occurrences. Generally, economic mineralization exhibits a close special relation to the Jurassic granodiorite with economic mineralization occurring both along the sediment contacts and the fractures within the intrusive. Nevertheless, there are no proven or probable reserves which would substantiate an established commercially minable deposit for extraction. The close, special relationship of the granodiorite to many of the mineral occurrences suggests it is the primary source of the mineralization. The Nolan Report described several separate faulting, folding, and mineralizing events in the district.
The Kiewit occurrence has been characterized as a hydrothermal disseminated gold zone in a highly fractured granodiorite intrusion. A specific horizon or low angle fault structure manifests itself as an anomalous gold blanket within the intrusion. We believe it may be part of an IOGC (Iron Oxide Copper Gold) System.
Exploration Activities
Systematic exploration is ongoing at the Kiewit site on a limited basis. In addition, several other prospects including Oquirrh Springs the Frankie, the Lucy L and the Rustler have previously been sampled and evaluated. We do not have any current plans to conduct material exploration activities on the remaining Utah claims until and unless we are able to generate revenue from planned activities on our Kiewit project claims.
In the Kiewit area, based upon our calculation of mineralized material based on drill results from prior drilling performed by Dumont Nickel Inc. from 2004 to 2006 and recent metallurgical test work by McClellan Laboratories, we concluded that sufficient mineralized material was present to justify removing the material by open pit and processing it by leaching at a facility to be constructed near the Kiewit claims. McClellan Laboratories completed a column leach test which resulted in 70% gold recovery on minus 1/8th material and with modest reagent consumptions due to the nature of the deposit (granodiorite).
In 2011 we completed a 43-101 compliant resource calculation for the Kiewit deposit. The report included historical resource estimates as well as a general project summary.
Mineralization in the project area is manifested as: contact-metasomatic in and around limestone-granodiorite contacts (skarns), as fissure quartz-carbonate-adularia veins within the intrusive body itself, and as copper-gold replacement deposits within both the limestone and the intrusion. The report concluded that together these styles of mineralization are indicative of epithermal and related porphyry systems. Underlying thrust faults such as the Ochre Mountain thrust fault and the North Pass thrust fault along with numerous Mesazoic cross-cutting low-angle faults would have allowed magmatic or hydrothermal fluids emanating from the intrusion to migrate far from the intrusion and deep into surrounding wall rock. Clastic shale units within the property may have acted to form traps where migrating fluids would have deposited metals. More recent work tends to instead indicate the deposits could be related to an IOGC System.
Exploration Plans
Development of processing activities on the Kiewit Claims was completed in 2014. Set forth below is a brief discussion of the material plans relating to these projects:
Kiewit Gold Claims. Based on prior exploration work performed by Dumont Nickel between 2004 and 2006, management believes that mineralized material located on the Kiewit claims is a highly oxidized, highly fractured, highly disseminated and cyanide amenable hydrothermal gold deposit, with very minimal silver occurrences with the gold. Independent metallurgical testing by McClelland Laboratories in Reno, Nevada, has shown recoveries of 70% of gold are achievable with very low reagent consumptions but with the need for very fine crushing. We are mining and crushing material and are using a cyanide heap leach operation to recover gold and silver. Mining, haulage operations, and placement of the material on the leach pad are performed in-house as is crushing. The claims are located approximately 3,000 feet northeast of the leaching facility. Permitting for this project was received in January 2014 and the Reclamation bond was posted in February 2014. Development of the heap leach pad and process facility is complete with production of gold realized in fourth quarter of 2014.
Kiewit Heap Leach Facility. We process mineralized material extracted from the Kiewit claims through a heap leach facility constructed approximately 3,000 feet to the southwest of the Kiewit claims on patented claims we currently lease. The project included the construction of a 750,000 square foot clay and plastic lined pad and pond and a 650 gallon per minute capacity carbon column recovery facility.
Cactus Mill Pilot Plant Rebuild. The Cactus Mill site is located approximately 1/3 mile north and west of the town site of Gold Hill and approximately four miles north of the Yellow Hammer claims. All needed access roads are already in place. Milling began on this site in about 1919. Prior to our recently completed rebuild project, the site consisted of two buildings with a concentrated storage area. Water for the area comes from the Cane Springs, located approximately 1,000 feet southwest of the pilot mill site and is piped to the pilot mill.
The pilot plant is comprised of a copper flotation circuit followed by flotation and gravity circuit for tungsten. After spending approximately $1,000,000 on the remodel and reconstruction of the pilot plant, we tested the facility during September 2010 and commenced processing mineralized material in October 2010 and continued operations until December 2011.
We have given up our lease on the Yellow Hammer property and no longer have an interest in this property. The Cactus Mill Pilot Plant is suitable for processing of other ores in the district, including those from the Clifton Shears-Smelter Tunnel property.
Permits
Utah regulations stipulate that, as long as any exploration projects on state lands are limited to an area within ten acres, there are no requirements to perform an extensive environmental assessment or compose a Plan of Operation. Larger projects would require a Plan of Operation which would consist of a reclamation plan and bond. The Bureau of Land Management (“BLM”) has shifted some of its land management and authority to state agencies, such as the Utah Division of Oil, Gas and Mining (“DOGM”) which regulates mining activities on state and private lands. DOGM also shares authority with the BLM to stipulate and enforce environmental protection measures which are generally regulated by the Utah Department of Environmental Quality. Our proposed exploration activities are located in the State of Utah and therefore require various filings with DOGM. DOGM requires all large mining operations to have an approved notice of intention and an approved reclamation contract in place and a surety bond posted. All small mining operations and exploration projects must have a complete notice of intention filed with the Division.
After retaining North American Exploration, Inc. of Kaysville, Utah and JBR Environmental Consultants, Inc. of Sandy, Utah to assist us we obtained the final permit necessary to commence construction and development for operations. This permit was received in first quarter 2014 and the reclamation bond was posted in February 2014. Development of the project used funding provided by DMRJ Group. The property is located in an historical mining district that has existing disturbances and mine wastes and is in a very arid, desolate area. The property is also adjacent to, and uphill from, the Dugway Proving Grounds and Air Force Gunnery Range that is deemed an environmentally insensitive area, with low water quality. Management believes that through our leased patented claims we have adequate private land for process facilities. There is no material access from any metropolitan area or community. Management believes that no previous work by any operator has been contested by regulators or others. On March 20, 2013, the Confederated Tribes of the Goshute Reservation outlined in a letter to the BLM their review of the Kiewit Mine Project Draft Environmental Assessment. The letter alleged the Environmental Assessment is flawed in the development and analysis of alternatives, conformance with applicable BLM land use plans, and disclosure, analysis and mitigation of impacts on cultural resources, Native American values and many other environmental resources. On January 6, 2014 the permit was issued by the BLM and on February 6, 2014 the Tribes filed an appeal to the issuance of the permit. The appeal remains in place but a request for a stay was denied.
Set forth below is a summary of the status of the permitting process for the various segments of the project:
Cactus Mill Site: We currently hold a Large Mining Operations Permit from DOGM for the pilot plant which allows flotation and gravity concentration. This permit was granted in October 1995 to Ivanhoe Joint Venture and was ultimately assigned to us on April 6, 2009. We have also entered into a Reclamation Contract with the Division which was originally effective August 9, 2002, and transferred to us on April 6, 2010. We have also posted a reclamation bond in the amount of $42,802 for this project with DOGM. Mineralized material for this pilot plant was generated exclusively from the Yellow Hammer claims under the above-referenced Small Mining Operations Permit. Operations at this plant are currently suspended. This mill is suitable for processing of other ores in the district including those of the Clifton Shears-Smelter Tunnel property.
Kiewit Project: This deposit exists entirely on BLM unpatented mining claims from which an environmental assessment was previously completed by Dumont Nickel, a predecessor operator, on the affected area. The heap leach pad and process area are located on patented mining claims approximately 3,000 feet to the southwest of the Kiewit claims.
In February 2010 we filed an application with DOGM for a Large Mining Operations Permit to commence large mining operations for three open pit mines and a heap leach gold facility. Final approval was received in November 2012. In February 2010 we also submitted a Plan of Operation to the BLM. Final approval was received in January 2014 and the approval is currently being appealed, as indicated above. A separate Groundwater Discharge Permit through the Utah Department of Environmental Quality was issued on December 7, 2010.
In addition to completing the notice of intent filing, the BLM requires an analysis of our Plan of Operation in compliance with the National Environmental Protection Act (“NEPA”). Approval of the Environmental Assessment was issued in January 2014 and development of the project began in February 2014 after posting a reclamation Bond in the amount of $1,348,000. The bond has since been replaced with a surety bond in the same amount, a condition of which was the deposit of $674,000 (50% of the bond amount) into escrow with the bonding company.
Yellow Hammer Small Mining Operations Permit: This permit was absorbed into the new Kiewit Large Mine permit.
Yellow Hammer Exploration: This permit was absorbed into the Kiewit Large Mine permit.
Kiewit Exploration Permit: This permit was originally transferred from Dumont Nickel. It covers approximately 1,500 acres around the Kiewit pit. A $27,120 bond is in place to cover existing disturbance.
Water and Power
Pursuant to our lease agreement with Clifton Mining, we have access to Cane Springs, a natural flowing spring approximately 1,000 feet southwest of the Cactus Mill site, as well as the Cane Springs mine shaft located approximately ¼ mile south of the Cactus Mill. We have reconstructed pipe lines from Cane Springs and the Cane Springs shaft to the Cactus Mill pilot plant. Management believes the water from these two sources will be sufficient to operate the pilot plant and limited operations at the Kiewit heap leach, if needed. We have been granted a one cubic foot per second water right from the Utah Division of Water Rights to provide water to the proposed Kiewit heap leach facility, which management believes will be sufficient to operate the proposed facility. We have constructed a well adjacent to the facility to provide this water. We are exploring additional alternatives for power to the property.
Offices and Other Facilities
Our corporate office is located in Reno, Nevada and Mr. Havenstrite, our President, operates from this office and also works on site at our mining property in Tooele County, Utah. Monthly rent for the office space in Reno is $1,000. Financial and engineering activities are performed in this office and rent includes use of the business equipment and supplies needed to perform these functions. This office space is used primarily for RMH Overhead, LLC and Overhead Door Co. of Sierra Nevada/Reno, Inc., businesses owned by Mr. Havenstrite. Agreements for the use of the office space facilities with these parties are month-to-month and can be cancelled at any time. Because of limited cash resources, these rents accrued in 2013 and the first two months of 2014 rather than being paid. Beginning March of 2014 through current, the rents were paid as charged with the exception of four months. Total accrued and unpaid rent for office space in Reno, Nevada at December 31, 2016 is $17,750, which includes $4,000 in unpaid rent from 2016.
We rent a core-logging facility located on the Tooele County airport grounds in Wendover, Utah. The facility includes a separate core splitting and sawing room, field supply storage rooms and sufficient floor space for logging tables and racks to hold over 21,000 feet of HQ core boxes. Monthly rent for this space is $350 and the rental arrangement is terminable at any time.
ITEM 3.