ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
Kiewit Project, Utah
The Kiewit gold property located in the Gold Hill Mining District in Tooele County, Utah, is our principal mineral property and is an exploration stage property. In June 2019 we also acquired 20 patented mining claims contiguous to our Kiewit property, known as the JJS Property. We have not determined to what extent we will develop these new claims. We were attracted to the Gold Hill Mining District because of its similarities to productive mining districts and its past positive exploration results. The gold potential of the Gold Hill Mining District is enhanced by similarities to surrounding gold deposits. We believe the scale, number and frequency of the Gold Hill Mining District gold-bearing exposures and geochemical anomalies compare favorably to similar attributes of other productive mining districts.
Location, Infrastructure, and Geography of Kiewit
The Gold Hill Mining District is in Tooele County, Utah, located at 40º 07’ 00” North latitude, 113º 49’ 40” West longitude. The district includes the north end of the Deep Creek Mountains, one of the nearly north-south ranges that are common in the Great Basin. On the east and north, the mountain area is separated by gravel slopes from the flat plain of the Great Salt Lake Desert, and on the west, it is bounded by the Deep Creek Valley and groups of irregular low hills. It is approximately 190 miles west-southwest of Salt Lake City, Utah, and approximately 56 miles south southeast of Wendover, Utah. The project is reached by taking Alternate 93A south from Wendover approximately 28 miles and turning east on to the Ibapah Highway, a paved two-lane road. Approximately 17 miles east is a maintained two-lane county road which provides access to the property approximately 11 miles southeast to the town of Gold Hill, Utah. The Kiewit mine and the mill site are accessible by dirt roads maintained year-round. Access to the property is maintained all year.
Power is supplied by the Company’s diesel generators and water for mining operations is supplied from an existing groundwater well. Drinking water is obtained from a local vendor.
At April 5, 2021 we had 29 full-time and 3 part-time employees. All employees are assigned to work at the Kiewit site, with the exception of the officers, a bookkeeper and one engineer, who work from the corporate office in Reno, Nevada, with periodic site visits.
The Gold Hill area lies within the region of the interior drainage that includes western Utah and most of Nevada, and, like the remaining portions of that area, is a high desert semi-arid climate. The area is composed of a highly dissected group of hills of relatively low relief. The elevation of the Kiewit Mine is approximately 5,500 feet. The Gold Hill area is bounded on the east by the Great Salt Lake Desert at an altitude of about 4,300 feet, on the north by Dutch Mountain with a higher elevation of 7,735 feet, on the west by Clifton Flat at an approximate elevation of 6,600 feet, and on the south by Montezuma Peak with an elevation of 7,369 feet.
Pronounced differences in temperatures between night and day are common, with the dryness of the air mitigating the high temperatures which predominate the summer days. Annual precipitation averages approximately 12 inches with about half falling in the months from February to May. Rainfall during summer to early fall is commonly in the form of severe thunderstorms. Snow may be expected between October and May. Fieldwork in the area is generally permitted throughout most of the year.
The higher portions of the Deep Creek Range and small areas near the summits of the adjoining mountains support a fairly heavy growth of yellow pine. The lower slopes of these mountains have a sparse covering of juniper and piñon trees. On the lower hills and on the gravel slopes surrounding them, these trees give way to sagebrush. The floor of the Great Salt Lake Desert in the north-east corner of the district is almost completely barren of vegetation.
Kiewit Mining Claims
The Kiewit mining claims consist of 66 unpatented and surface rights to 10 patented mining claims covering approximately 3 square miles located in the Gold Hill Mining District in Tooele County, Utah.
The Kiewit mining claims were part of a larger group of mining claims leased from Clifton Mining Company and its subsidiary, The Woodman Mining Company, in July of 2009. The original lease with Clifton was amended in June of 2010. In March 2019, the lease agreement was again amended by a Second Amended and Restated Lease Agreement (the “Amended Lease”). Under the terms of the Amended Lease, the Company relinquished its leasehold interest in all but the current Kiewit patented and unpatented claims. The lease term is 20 years and for so long thereafter as the mining claims are being actively used by the Company for commercial mining purposes. The Company is required to pay all property payment and payment obligations with respected to the leased premises.
Under the terms of the Amended Lease, Clifton’s right to receive a 6% royalty interest from production on the Kiewit project was terminated. The Company also acquired from third parties and cancelled the remaining 1% outstanding royalty interest thereon, for which the Company paid each of two parties $50,000.
As consideration for entering into the Amended Lease, the Company issued 5,500,000 shares of its common stock with a fair value of $2,200,000 which increased the carrying value of the mineral properties and interests. The Company also paid $13,390 in satisfaction of delinquent amounts owed Clifton and $42,802 in a reclamation bond transfer. In addition, the Company and Clifton entered into a Registration Rights Agreement to register for resale the shares issued to Clifton which requires the Company to register the shares within 18 months (which is September 7, 2020) following the Initial Funding. In the event the Company does not register the shares within the 18-month period, the Company is obligated to pay Clifton a royalty equal to 2.5% of the net smelter returns from the minerals generated from the Company’s mining claims. The registration of these shares was filed and became effective on April 14, 2020. The Company has agreed to maintain the effectiveness of the Registration Rights Agreement for a period of three years.
Desert Hawk may mortgage or pledge its leasehold interest under the Amended Lease for purposes of financing exploration, development, and mining operations on the leased premises, including corporate overhead for such operations, but it cannot otherwise encumber the leased premises without Clifton’s prior, written discretionary consent. In connection with the PDK funding, the Company granted to PDK a security interest in all of the assets of the Company and issued and recorded a Leasehold Deed of Trust which included an assignment of leases, rents, as extracted collateral and contracts, a security agreement and fixture filing.
The Amended Lease cannot be assigned or subleased without the prior written consent of Clifton. Further, PDK may, without Clifton’s consent, hold a foreclosure sale, take title to the Company’s interest under the Amended Lease, or transfer or assign the Company’s interest under the Amended Lease. The Company may surrender the Amended Lease as to all or any part of the leased premises, after proper reclamation of all portions of the land to be surrendered affected by its operations. However, so long as any mortgage of PDK remains in effect, the Amended Lease cannot be modified, and Clifton will not accept a surrender of any of the leased premises or a termination or release of the Amended Lease, without the prior written consent of PDK, which consent cannot be unreasonably withheld or delayed.
Kiewit Geology and Mineralization
The Gold Hill area hosts lithologic units ranging in age from the Cambrian through to Quaternary Periods including six Paleozoic sedimentary formations of Carboniferous-age from the Cordilleran miogeosyncline. Geology of the Gold Hill Mining District is dominated by a large Jurassic granodiorite stock intruding the Carboniferous sedimentary package consisting of carbonates (limestone and dolomite) and lesser clastic sequences, notably shale and quartzite. The contact between the granodiorite and sediments is clearly intrusive at many localities. In other exposures, the contact is a post-intrusive fault contact or localized detachment fault.
Other lithologies in the District include silica breccias, jasperoids and assorted (locally tuffaceous) volcanics, minor small, intrusive plugs and dikes of probable Tertiary age also occur in the area. Most of the present-day surface is covered with colluvial slope wash and the canyons and narrow washes have alluvial fill of various thicknesses.
The Kiewit historic gold zone is hosted within a structural zone traceable on the surface for a distance of approximately 2.5 miles across the full length of the Kiewit project area and beyond. This structure trends north-north-easterly with a gentle westerly dip ranging 20-30 degrees, often occupying dip-slopes across the area. The zone comprises a 30 to 165-foot-thick, gently westerly dipping gold bearing oxidized quartz stockwork section in granodiorite. The zone is mostly exposed on the surface and occupies the dip-slope located at the southern part of the Kiewit project area. Projected western and northern extensions of the stockwork dip under Carboniferous Sedimentary rocks, although it is ultimately truncated by the Rodenhouse Fault located approximately 2,500 feet to the west.
The Kiewit gold zone is part of a typical low-sulfidation gold bearing epithermal system. It is manifested as a zone of quartz and quartz-carbonate veining and stockworks within the more laterally extensive (2.5 miles long and up to 1,650 feet wide) Kiewit structural zone fault/fracture system. The Kiewit structural zone comprises a group of lithologies overlying a major fault zone that is manifested as a three to 16 feet thick silica breccia unit in granodiorite. A basal three to six-foot thick quartz-carbonate vein overlies this basal silica breccia and is followed up-section by a fault-bounded interval of relatively unaltered granodiorite that forms the footwall of the stockworks. At some locations, this footwall granodiorite is absent and the stockwork zone is instead in fault-contact with the basal quartz-carbonate vein. The footwall of the stockwork zone is defined by faulting, with a north-north-easterly trend and shallow westerly dip. The “footwall” fault appears to have developed after the stockwork and served to juxtapose altered and mineralized rocks of the historic gold zone over relatively mineralized and fresh granodiorite. The amount of displacement along this fault is unknown and the structure may be regarded as a detachment zone.
Precious metals mineralization at Kiewit occurs primarily as electrum and is hosted in a stockwork zone associated with a low angle fault zone. The stockwork zone comprises argillic-propylitic altered granodiorite with randomly oriented to anastomosing veinlets, as well as veins with variable mix of white to grey chalcedony/quartz and white to beige carbonate and adularia. The veins are commonly less than two centimeters wide but larger veins with apparent thickness up to one meter or greater are present on surface and in diamond drill core. The larger veins display typical epithermal style open space fillings and have variable textures.
The mineralized stockwork is reported by Dumont to generally contain up to 30 randomly oriented veinlets making up 30% of the rock volume. The highest gold grades are also reported by Dumont to generally be associated with the larger veins or where vein density is greatest which suggests that the gold mineralization is spatially associated with the quartz-carbonate veins.
Kiewit Exploration Programs and Mining Activities
The Kiewit mining claims are without known reserves but beginning in 2014 the Company started extraction of gold without determining mineral reserves. The Kiewit mine is a small open pit, heap leach operation that produces gold and silver. Initial production at Kiewit commenced in June 2014 and was suspended in June 2016. Production was suspended due to low metal prices and undercapitalized operations. A fresh water well failure in July 2016, due to suspected sabotage, caused a complete leach pad shut-down. Fresh water pumping was re-started in mid-March 2017 mostly to reduce solution volumes as no sodium cyanide (NaCN) was being added. The mine resumed leaching activities in the spring of 2018 and recovered some gold but suspended operations again in October 2018 to secure funding for continued operations. In April 2019 we recommenced mining operations with our first sale in September 2019. During fourth quarter 2020, we also commenced processing ore for a third party under our existing mining permit, which allowed for 5,000 tons of this ore to be processed and has since then been increased to 30,000 tons.
History of Previous Mining Activities
The Gold Hill area is one of the oldest mining districts in the State of Utah. It reflects 43 known historical producing deposits mined primarily from the mid-1800s until the end of World War II. These deposits included gold, silver, copper, bismuth, lead, zinc, tungsten, arsenic, molybdenum, cobalt, and beryllium. Exploration and mining activities commenced in the mid-1800s as travel westward through the area to California was at its peak. Lead mineralization first attracted the attention of travelers prompting early prospecting. Placer gold was first discovered in the Gold Hill area in 1858. These early prospectors were hampered by repeated attacks of local Native American tribes and the area was abandoned until 1869 when the settlements of Gold Hill and Clifton were re-established.
A lead smelter was constructed at Clifton in 1872 and relocated to Gold Hill in 1874. However, mining activity did not commence in earnest until 1892 when a mill and smelter were constructed at Gold Hill. Substantial quantities of gold and silver ore were processed at this site between 1892 and 1896. Mining activity gradually diminished until 1905 when exploration for copper revived the area. With the outbreak of World War I and the completion of the Deep Creek Railroad between Gold Hill and Wendover, a new revival of interest in the area commenced. Gold, silver, copper and lead were produced and approximately 3,000 residents lived in Gold Hill and Clifton at the time.
Tungsten was produced beginning in 1912. Significant amounts of gold and bismuth were also reportedly extracted during this period. Two mines produced tungsten in 1914 and 1917 and were operated primarily for the strategic requirement of tungsten during the two world wars. Gold and silver mining ceased completely with the beginning of World War II since the few remaining miners focused their attention on the production of strategic metals such as arsenic and tungsten to support the war effort.
Arsenic was produced beginning with the outbreak of World War I and was used primarily for pesticides in the cotton fields of the south. Two former copper producers also produced arsenic between 1923 and 1925. One of the mines reopened during World War II to produce arsenic for the war effort. None of the arsenic deposits previously mined are located on our claims.
The first large-scale geological study of the area was published in 1935 by T. B. Nolan as U.S. Geological Survey Professional Paper 177 and is referred to herein as the Nolan Report. The Nolan Report provided the first detailed data on the mining district.
The mining district remained largely dormant during the period after World War II through the mid-1970s. Between this period and the mid-1990s, several mining companies began to consolidate the fragmented land holdings in the area and a more regional-scale exploration operation was conducted. In 1993 Clifton Mining Company acquired several of the mining claims in the area and subsequently purchased Woodman Mining Company which also held claims in the district. After purchase of the claims, Clifton Mining commenced additional exploration activities and in 1997 developed road access up the Clifton Hills area. Clifton completed construction of a 50 ton per day mill at the Cactus Mill site and started construction of a 500 ton per day gravity-flotation mill at the same location. In 1999 Clifton Mining borrowed funds which financed upgrades to the mill.
Between 1994 and 1997 Kennecott Utah Copper, now owned by Rio Tinto, explored a large region of the district. In December 2002 Clifton Mining and Woodman Mining entered into an option-joint venture agreement with Dumont Nickel Inc., which in 2010 changed its name to DNI Metals Inc. The joint venture ultimately covered approximately 10.3 square miles of mineral properties but did not include the Yellow Hammer claims which were controlled by the Moeller family. In 2003 Dumont commenced exploring the properties with the objective of identifying bulk mineable gold, copper and silver targets through regional work as well as several drill programs. Beginning in 2004 Dumont completed a regional-scale grid and reconnaissance rock and soil sampling exploration program with detailed, targeted exploration work over the Clifton Shears Corridor, the Kiewit Zone and the prior zone owned by Kennecott. Ultimately, Dumont determined that the scale of the project was too small and decided to sell its interest in the project. In July 2009 Dumont completed the sale of all its mineral properties in this area to Clifton Mining Company for $255,000 cash and a 0.5% net smelter return royalty against future production proceeds from the Cane Springs Property and from portions of the Kiewit project claims. The joint venture and the option agreement were both subsequently dissolved and terminated.
Processing Plant and Mining Equipment
The Kiewit mine is an open pit mine using conventional open pit mining methods with drilling, blasting, loading with a wheeled loader and truck haulage to the ore stockpile near the crusher. We recommenced operation of the mine in April 2019. We also use a top hammer drill for all blast holes and a dozer to move waste and for road building, as required. We also use a grader and water truck for haul road maintenance. At the leach pad we use a wheeled loader to feed the crusher and a dozer to level the pad.
The current processing facility can process approximately one million tons per year, which we plan to increase to three million tons if resource expansion dictates. We anticipate that this expansion will require an update or amendment of some permits. Ores are crushed, truck-stacked and heap-leached at the Company’s mine site. Pregnant solutions are passed through a conventional carbon column with the resultant gold-bearing carbon refined off-site.
Mining Permits
The Kiewit mining claims exist entirely on federal Bureau of Land Management unpatented mining claims. The heap leach pad and process area are located on patented mining claims approximately 3,000 feet to the southwest of the Kiewit claims.
In February 2010 we filed an application with Utah Division of Oil, Gas and Mining for a Large Mining Operations Permit to commence large mining operations for three open pit mines and a heap leach gold facility. Final approval was received in November 2012. In February 2010 we also submitted a Plan of Operation to the BLM. Final approval was received in January 2014. A separate Groundwater Discharge Permit through the Utah Department of Environmental Quality was issued on December 7, 2010.
In addition to completing the notice of intent filing, the BLM requires an analysis of our Plan of Operation in compliance with the National Environmental Protection Act. Approval of the Environmental Assessment was issued in January 2014 and development of the project began in February 2014 after posting a reclamation Bond in the amount of $1,348,000. In December 2020, we were notified that the reclamation cost estimate for the Kiewit properties had been escalated from $1,348,000 to $1,537,000, an increase of $189,000. This amount escalated the cost estimate to December 31, 2021 at which time a new cost estimate will be calculated to escalate the cost through 2026. This additional surety amount of $189,000 is due to the Utah Division of Oil, Gas and Mining by March 25, 2021 and was remitted on March 10, 2021.
The Company believes it has all necessary environmental permits and authorizations to support existing operations. As we expand or update the current mining plan of operations (the “POO”), we will require an update or amendment of some permits and before we can implement any changes in our operating parameters, we will need to modify our existing permits or seek new permits. We anticipate that the following permitting modifications will be required:
● POO Modification: A POO modification would be required to support our planned increased production capacity, expansion of the mine pit, and the expansion of the leach pad. The POO modification must be submitted to the BLM, and the process would require National Environmental Policy Act compliance, including public review and comment. We submitted the modification in first quarter 2020 and anticipate obtaining this modification by third quarter 2021.
● Air Quality Permit to Construct: A modification to the Air Quality Permit to Construct would be required for production increases from the one million tons per annum to the three-million-ton level. We submitted our application in first quarter 2020 and expect permit issuance by third quarter 2021.
● Water Discharge Permit: A modification to our existing water discharge permit would be required for the expansion including enlargement of the heap leach facility. The permit includes monitoring of the heap leach leak detection system and groundwater monitoring wells in the vicinity of the heap leach and process area. We submitted the modification in third quarter 2020 and expect permit issuance by third quarter 2021.
● Reclamation Plan: A Reclamation Plan Approval would be required by the Utah DOGM Office. However, the Aggregate Mine Land Reclamation Act would require approval by the Inspectors Office of the POO amendment addressing new infrastructure and disposal facilities. We submitted the POO amendment for approval in first quarter 2020 and anticipate permit approval by third quarter 2021.
We have engaged outside consultants to assist us in seeking modification or new permits to accomplish the above.
2020 Mining Activities
During 2020 we mined and crushed 474,500 tons of mineralized material and 1,300,000 tons of waste from the open-pit Kiewit Pit.
Using the funds from the PDK transaction, in January 2020 we commenced a drilling program on the Kiewit and JJS mining claims to determine the definition of the mineralized body and resource classification of the resources in connection with the proposed completion of a technical report on the claims. Our drilling plan included drilling 30 holes for a total footage of 7,500 feet. Although drilling has commenced on the JJS property, permitting has not been completed and production has not yet begun.
Planned 2021 Exploration and Mining Activities
We intend to continue our drilling program during the second and third quarters of 2021 at a further cost of approximately $175,000.
We also intend to continue extraction of mineralized material and to upgrade and expand the current facilities, as resource expansion dictates.
Offices and Other Facilities
Our corporate office is located in Reno, Nevada and Mr. Havenstrite, our President, operates from this office and also works on site at our mining property in Tooele County, Utah. Monthly rent for the office space in Reno is $1,500. Financial and engineering activities are performed in this office and rent includes use of the business equipment and supplies needed to perform these functions. This office space is used primarily for RMH Overhead, LLC and Overhead Door Co. of Sierra Nevada/Reno, Inc., businesses owned by Mr. Havenstrite. Agreements for the use of the office space facilities with these parties are month-to-month and can be cancelled at any time.
We rent a core-logging facility located on the Tooele County airport grounds in Wendover, Utah. The facility includes a separate core splitting and sawing room, field supply storage rooms and sufficient floor space for logging tables and racks to hold over 21,000 feet of HQ core boxes. Monthly rent for this space is $350 and the rental arrangement is terminable at any time.
ITEM 3.