Item 2 Properties.
We do not own any real property.
China Jinxin
China Jinxin leased 15.80 hectares of land located on the Zhuolu Mine, on which it built its production facilities and office buildings. This lease was confirmed by the local villagers’ committee and received the relevant approvals from the local township government, which entered into appropriate agreements with China Jinxin. Pursuant to such agreements, the lease is from December 30, 2006 to December 30, 2026 and the total compensation was approximately RMB 5,000,000 ($0.75 million USD).
China Jinxin has constructed five houses at its production facilities. The houses are used as residences by some of our employees, which work at the facilities and as offices and guest facilities. Pursuant to the certificates of ownership, the total area of the houses is 9,755 square meters. The valid period of the corresponding land use right as to 9,646 square meters terminated on August 30, 2009, and the balance terminated on March 6, 2015. We have filed applications to renew such land use rights and are still waiting for the approval from the local government as of this report date. Although the valid period of the corresponding land rights has terminated, we have continued to use the houses without interruption and anticipate that such use will not be interrupted so long as we hold a temporary or permanent license to use our production facilities. Because the use of the houses is not relevant to the production of iron ore concentrate, the loss of the use of our houses would not have a material adverse impact on our operations.
The land occupied by our production facilities has been designated for construction. According to Chinese laws and regulations, only state-owned land can be used for construction. However, the land occupied by China Jinxin’s production facilities is not state-owned. It is currently owned collectively by local villagers. Thus, questions could be raised by state agencies as to our right to build our facilities. To minimize the possibility that state agencies will challenge our right to use our production facilities, the land has to be acquired by the local government from the local villages and then transferred to China Jinxin. China Jinxin is working with the authorities to complete this process. Because the requisite procedures have not been completed, the houses, office buildings and production facilities on the land are subject to limitations on transfer or the granting of mortgages. Although there is the possibility that the local government will fail to complete the land transfer process, given that the local Ministry of Construction granted us permission to build the production facilities, we believe it is not likely they will do so. If, however, China Jinxin did not ultimately obtain appropriate rights to the land on which it has built its facilities, its right to operate the facilities could be suspended in which event our business and financial results would be materially adversely affected.
China Huaxin
The China Huaxin DRI Facility is located in Haixing Qingxian Industrial Park, Cangzhou, Heibei Province PRC. The Company’s DRI Facility occupies an area of 200,000 m2 The DRI Facility occupies 60,000 m2, of land and there is a raw material storage area of 14,000 m2 with a 100,000 ton storage capacity, a workshop area of 4500 m2, a water storage pool of 4000m3 to supplement water supplies, and an office building of 2,400 m2.
Item Legal Proceedings.
From time to time, we may become involved in various lawsuits and legal proceedings which arise in the ordinary course of business. However, litigation is subject to inherent uncertainties and an adverse result in these or other matters may arise from time to time that may harm our business. We are currently not aware of any such legal proceedings or claims that we believe will have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or operating results.
On September 4, 2012, Shijiazhuang City QiaoXi District People’s Court ruled China Huaxin had to repay a loan of RMB 49,067 ($7,073) plus court fees of RMB 515 ($74) to a plaintiff within 10 days of the judgment. China Huaxin paid RMB 10,216 ($1,481) in January 2017.
On April 7, 2013, the Zhulu County Labor Dispute Arbitration Committee ruled that China Jinxin had to pay RMB 654,300 ($94,320) to an employee as a result of her death in a traffic accident in 2010 when she was on the way to China Jinxin. China Jinxin denied it had an employment relationship with the plaintiff and appealed to Hebei Province Zhulu County People’s Court; on August 3, 2015, Hebei Province Zhulu County People’s Court confirmed there was an employment relationship and affirmed the original judgement in favor of the plaintiff. The Court froze the Company’s bank account in October 2016. This liability was accrued as of December 31, 2016. As of this report date, the Company has not yet paid this liability due to its lack of cash.
On December 30, 2016, Hebei Province Haixing County People’s Court ruled that China Huaxin had to pay the outstanding balance of RMB 410,537 ($59,181) electricity fee plus RMB 3,288 ($474) in court fees that it owed to Guo Wang Hebei Province Electric Company Haixing County branch before January 9th, 2017. China Huaxin accrued this liability in 2016 and paid the balance in full in March 2017.
In 2017, bank account number ending #7368 of Jinxin and bank account ending #3463 of Huaxin were temporarily frozen due to due to inappropriate financing in the name of Jinxin and Huanxin’s projects by a company that is owned by one of the Company’s former senior management member. This case is currently in trial. The individual responsible for these activities is no longer with our Company.
In 2017, the Court ruled Jinxin, Tianjin Tianxin Mining Co., Ltd, (“Tianxin”, controlled by Jiazhen Liu) and Jiazheng Liu (the Company’s major shareholder) to be jointly responsible for repaying loans and court fees of RMB 6,187,268 ($0.95 million). However, since the actual borrower was Tianxin and Jinxin never received the loan proceeds, on April 2018, Jinxin, Tianxin and Jiazhen Liu entered a three-party agreement and mutually agreed Tianxin will be fully responsible of repaying the loan and court fee in full.
In addition to the above, during 2012 through 2017, Huaxin was a defendant in a number of lawsuits and was ordered to pay an aggregate of RMB 12,032,454 ($1.84 million, consisting of 2012: $0.14 million, 2013: $0.40 million, 2014: $0.13 million, 2015: $0.06 million, 2016: $0.97 million, 2017: $0.14 million) inclusive of interest and court fees for amounts borrowed from various lenders. The Company claims it never received these loans and is going to appeal.
In May 2017, the court ordered the Company to compensate six individuals who were the former employees of Huaxin a total of RMB 146,082 ($22,356) as a result of the termination of the employees.
Item Mine Safety Disclosures.
Not applicable
PART II
Item Market For Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters And Issuer Purchases Of Equity Securities.
Market Information
Our common stock is quoted on the OTCQB under the symbol “ADMG”. However, trading in our shares of common stock has been and continues to be limited and sporadic.
Record Holders
On May 18, 2017, we had approximately 243 holders of record of our common stock.
Dividends
We have not declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock nor do we anticipate paying any in the foreseeable future. Furthermore, we expect to retain any future earnings to finance our operations and expansion. The payment of cash dividends in the future will be at the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend upon our earnings levels, capital requirements, any restrictive loan covenants and other factors the Board considers relevant.
Substantially all of our revenues will be earned by China Jinxin, China Tongda or China Huaxin, our PRC affiliate and subsidiaries. PRC regulations restrict the ability of our PRC subsidiary to make dividends and other payments to its offshore parent company. PRC legal restrictions permit payments of dividend by our PRC subsidiary only out of its accumulated after-tax profits, if any, determined in accordance with PRC accounting standards and regulations. Our PRC subsidiary is also required under PRC laws and regulations to allocate at least 10% of its annual after-tax profits determined in accordance with PRC GAAP to a statutory general reserve fund until the amounts in said fund reaches 50% of its registered capital. Allocations to this statutory reserve fund can only be used for specific purposes and are not transferable to us in the form of loans, advances or cash dividends. Any limitations on the ability of our PRC subsidiary to transfer funds to us could materially and adversely limit our ability to grow, make investments or acquisitions that could be beneficial to our business, pay dividends and otherwise fund and conduct our business.
Sales of Unregistered Securities
On January 4, 2017, we issued 3,000,000 shares of common stock to an independent consultant, a non U.S. Person (as defined in Rule 902(k) of Regulation S under the Securities Act), in an “off-shore transaction” exempt from the registration requirements of the Securities Act pursuant to Regulation S. The fair value of the shares was $1,050,000, calculated based on the stock price of $0.35 per share on November 15, 2016, the date we entered into a consulting agreement with the consultant. The certificate representing the shares was endorsed with a restrictive legend in accordance with Regulation S. We did not issue or sell any other unregistered equity securities during 2017.
Purchases of Our Equity Securities
Neither we nor any of our affiliates purchased any equity securities from our stockholders during the fourth quarter of the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017.
Securities Authorized for Issuance under Equity Compensation Plans
The following table sets forth information about the common stock available for issuance under compensatory plans and arrangements as of December 31, 2017.
Penny Stock Regulations
The SEC has adopted regulations which generally define so-called “penny stocks” to be an equity security that has a market price less than $5.00 per share or an exercise price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exemptions. Our common stock is a “penny stock” and is subject to Rule 15g-9 under the Exchange Act, or the Penny Stock Rule. This rule imposes additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers that sell such securities to persons other than established customers and “accredited investors” (generally, individuals with a net worth in excess of $1,000,000 or annual incomes exceeding $200,000, or $300,000 together with their spouses). For transactions covered by Rule 15g-9, a broker-dealer must make a special suitability determination for the purchaser and have received the purchaser’s written consent to the transaction prior to sale. As a result, this rule may affect the ability of broker-dealers to sell our securities and may affect the ability of purchasers to sell any of our securities in the secondary market, thus possibly making it more difficult for us to raise additional capital.
For any transaction involving a penny stock, unless exempt, the rules require delivery, prior to any transaction in penny stock, of a disclosure schedule required by the SEC relating to the penny stock market. Disclosure is also required to be made about sales commissions payable to both the broker-dealer and the registered representative and current quotations for the securities. Finally, monthly statements are required to be sent disclosing recent price information for the penny stock held in the account and information on the limited market in penny stock.
There can be no assurance that our common stock will qualify for exemption from the Penny Stock Rule. In any event, even if our common stock were exempt from the Penny Stock Rule, we would remain subject to Section 15(b)(6) of the Exchange Act, which gives the SEC the authority to restrict any person from participating in a distribution of penny stock, if the SEC finds that such a restriction would be in the public interest.
Item Selected Financial Data.
This item does not apply to smaller reporting companies.
Item Management’s Discussion And Analysis Of Financial Condition And Results Of Operations.
Overview
We seek to profit by participating in various aspects of the Chinese steel making industry including the mining and processing of iron ore and other forms of iron, which can be used to produce iron concentrate, fines, pellets or sinter. To date we have been engaged in iron ore processing and the production of iron ore concentrate in the People’s Republic of China (“PRC”) through our variable interest entity (‘VIE’), China Jinxin, and through the production of DRI by our subsidiary, China Huaxin.
China Jinxin owns a production facility in Zhuolu county, Hebei Province. The facility was operational by 2011. China Jinxin entered into a long term contract with Hebei Steel and Iron Company which expires in 2019 whereby China Jinxin is to sell all of the output of its Zhuolu facility to Hebei Steel at prices to be agreed upon. Because the prices offered by Hebei have been so low, the Company has refused to sell it any ore powder, and did not continue to carry out the contract.
On January 17, 2014, we acquired a direct reduced iron (“DRI”) production facility in Haixing County, Hebei Province. We completed trial production at this facility and expected to commence commercial production in May 2015. However, as a result of environmental initiatives by government authorities in China, we upgraded the DRI facilities by converting the existing coal-gas station systems to liquefied natural gas (“LNG”) station systems. The conversion to LNG systems will reduce pollutants and produce higher quality DRIs with less impurities.
We have repeatedly been frustrated in our attempts to operate our facilities by environmental initiatives undertaken by local and national governments in China which have forced us to shut down our plants and upgrade them to comply with the newly enacted regulations. In addition, a down turn in the Chinese steel industry has had a negative impact on our operations. As an independent producer it is possible that when the need for iron decreases, state owned enterprises tend to contract with other state owned enterprises to obtain supplies for reasons other than cost. Despite this inability to operate our facilities our principal shareholder and management team have continued to fund our operations. Currently, we believe we are in compliance with all applicable regulations and have applied to obtain or renew all of our operating permits. Nevertheless, we are not currently producing iron at either of our facilities and cannot accurately predict when we will be able to do so.
We control China Jinxin through a series of agreements among China Tongda, Mining Technologies Service Co., Ltd. (“China Tongda”), China Jinxin and its shareholders, referred to as “VIE agreements.” China Jinxin has an annual capacity of approximately 300,000 tons. Under the VIE agreements, China Tongda is entitled to receive the pre-tax profits of China Jinxin.
On April 25, 2017, China Tongda incorporated Yancheng DeWeiSi Business Trading Co., Ltd (“DeWeiSi”) with registered capital of RMB 10,000,000 ($1.48 million), to be paid before April 19, 2047. DeWeiSi is engaged in sale of mineral products other than petroleum products, hardware, construction materials, and steel. Prior to December 31, 2017, Tongda sold 100% ownership of DeWeiSi for RMB 70,000 ($10,710), and the buyer took over the responsibility of fulfilling the $1.48 million registered capital requirement. The Company recorded a $27,094 gain on sale of DeWeiSi.
Sales for the year ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 were $1,756,021 and $613,295.
All mineral resources in China are owned by the state. Thus, our ability to obtain iron ore depends upon our ability to obtain mineral licenses from the relevant state authorities, purchase ore from another party that has mining rights or import ore from outside of China. It is generally not feasible to transport iron ore any significant distance before processing. We believe, as evidenced by our shareholders’ willingness to finance the construction of our Zhuolu facilities, there is sufficient iron ore in the vicinity of our Zhuolu facilities to enable us to operate them at a profit. Nevertheless, we have yet to obtain long term rights to any iron mine and there is no assurance we will be able to do so. Although we extracted iron ore from the Zhuolu Mine where our production facilities are located, we do not have the right to do so and can be subjected to various fines and penalties. However, since we paid geological survey fees on behalf of the local government so it could process applications related to the right to mine the Zhuolu Mine and has not received any challenges from any authorities regarding our mining activities, we believe that even if fines and penalties are assessed against us in the future, the amount should be negotiable with the authorities. If we are unable to obtain mining rights to the Zhuolu Mine, we will have to acquire iron ore from third parties. The failure to obtain iron ore for processing at all or on reasonably acceptable terms would have a material adverse impact on our business and financial results. We have not yet receive the official mining rights to extract; accordingly, we made a provision for fixed assets impairment for all the mine extracting and broken equipment and machinery.
The profitability of the mining industry in China and of our Company in particular, is dependent upon the demand for iron ore and other metals within China. This demand in turn, is influenced by general economic factors, such as the rate of growth of the economy and of the construction industry. There can be no assurance that China will return to the rapid rates of growth it experienced in the recent past. If the rate of growth of the Chinese economy remains low or were to slow down, demand for iron and steel could fall, adversely impacting our operations.
Results of Operations
Comparison of the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016
Sales
Our revenues have been from the sale of DRI and iron ore concentrate.
The sales for the year ended December 31, 2017 were $1,756,021, mainly from the sales of finished goods by Jinxin. Sales for the year ended December 31, 2016 were $613,295, of which $611,833 was from China Huaxin’s trial production for raw materials, and $1,462 was from consulting services performed by China Tongda.
Cost of Goods Sold
Cost of goods (“COGS”) sold consists primarily of fuel, power, direct material, direct labor, depreciation of production plant items and equipment, and accrual of the mining rights, which are attributable to the production of iron ore, iron ore concentrate and DRI.
COGS for the year ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 was $1,619,149 and $293,794, respectively.
Gross Income
The gross income for the year ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 was $136,872 and $319,501 respectively.
Operating Expenses
Operating expenses consist mainly of employee salaries and welfare, business meeting and promotion expense, depreciation and amortization of items not associated with production, utilities, and audit and legal expenses.
Operating expenses were $4,174,058 for the year ended December 31, 2017, compared to $4,425,792 for 2016, a decrease of $251,734 or 6%; despite the fact that we had stock compensation expense of $525,000 for shares issued for consulting services in 2017 compared to $65,625 stock compensation expense in 2016.
Other Expenses
Other expenses were $3,127,381 for the year ended December 31, 2017, compared to $2,113,352 for 2016. The $1,014,029 or 48% increase in other expenses was mainly due to a loss on assets exchange and disposal of $1,957,975 for China Jinxin, which was partly offset by decreased other expenses of $926,618 for 2017. In 2016, we had other expense of $1.06 million, which was mainly due to a loss on litigation (see Note 17).
Net Loss
We had a net loss of $7,174,070 for the year ended December 31, 2017, compared to net loss of $6,187,992 for the year ended December 31, 2016. The increase in our net loss results from a loss on assets exchange and disposal by $1,957,975 for China Jinxin.
Liquidity and Capital Resources
Our ability to generate cash from operations depends upon our ability to obtain iron ore and iron sands to process and to maintain the permits necessary to process such ore at our current facilities, neither of which is assured. The steel industry in China is significant to the Chinese economy and the government exercise a great deal of control over the production of iron ore and steel. In recent years the government has repeatedly caused iron producers to upgrade their facilities which has interfered with our ability to generate sales. If we cannot obtain iron ore and iron sands to process or are no longer able to process ore and sands, we would be dependent upon cash infusions from our current shareholders or third parties in the form of loans or equity contributions, or a combination thereof, to maintain our facilities until we can resume operations. One shareholder has indicated she will continue to fund China Jinxin, although there is no written agreement in place and China Jinxin currently owes her $10.17 million. In addition, China Huaxin borrowed $25.93 million from three of our shareholders (one of whom is the individual who funded China Jinxin and who has loaned $17.86 million to China Huaxin, another of whom is our CEO and who has loaned $2.16 million, and the third of whom is a shareholder and senior officer who has loaned $5.91 million). Despite such commitments, there is no assurance adequate cash will be available from current shareholders or from third parties and, if it is available, what the terms of any loan or investment might be. If we are unable to obtain the funding required, we may have to curtail or cease our operations. We have no specific plans, understandings or agreements with respect to the raising of such funds, and we may seek to raise the required capital by the issuance of equity or debt securities or by other means. Since we have no such arrangements or plans currently in effect, our inability to raise funds may have a severe negative impact on our ability to become a viable company.
Other than current construction in progress and change of Jinxin’s production line to baking-free bricks, which will be funded by one of our shareholders, we do not anticipate significant cash expenditures in the immediate future on our current production facilities. Nevertheless, we may require working capital once we resume production at our facilities. Certain of our shareholders have verbally agreed to continue to provide cash to satisfy our working capital needs. However, in the future, we intend to continue the expansion of operations by acquiring new production facilities and mines. The acquisitions will be paid for with cash or our equity securities, or combinations of both. Failure to obtain such financing could have a material adverse effect on our business expansion. The issuance and sale our equity securities would dilute the interest of our current shareholders. Further, there is no guarantee of the terms on which such an issuance would occur, if at all, or whether such terms would be favorable to our current shareholders.
As of December 31, 2017, cash and equivalents were $24,793, compared to $86,519 as of December 31, 2016. The following is a summary of cash provided by or used in each of the indicated types of activities during the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively.
Net cash used in operating activities
Net cash used in operating activities was $203,356 for the year ended December 31, 2017, compared to net cash used in operating activities of $3,102,079 in 2016. The decrease of cash outflow from operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2017 was principally attributable to a net loss adjustment for loss on asset disposal and exchange of $1,957,975, and decreased cash outflow for accrued liabilities and other payables by $1,844,444, which decreased net loss, and accordingly decreased the cash outflow.
Net cash used in investing activities
Net cash used in investing activities was $13,030 for the year ended December 31, 2017, compared to cash used in investing activities of $317,883 for 2016. Both year’s cash outflow was for acquisition of fixed assets.
Net cash provided by financing activities
Net cash provided by financing activities was $151,591for the year ended December 31, 2017, compared to net cash provided by financing activities of $3,483,795 in 2016. The net cash provided by financing activities in the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 were due to advances and notes issued from related parties.
At December 31, 2017, we had a working capital deficit of $54.04 million, an increase in deficit of $0.43 million from the deficit at December 31, 2016 of $53.60 million, which was mainly from increased payable for loss on litigation.
As of December 31, 2017, China Jinxin had borrowed $10.17 million from one of its shareholders for working capital and production facility construction needs. The loan of $10.17 million will not bear interest prior to the commencement of production pursuant to an amended loan agreement entered on January 16, 2013. Commencing on the production date, interest will begin to accrue at the bank’s annual interest rate on certificates of deposit at that time on the amount outstanding from time to time and all amounts inclusive of accrued interest is to be repaid within three years of our commencement of production at the Zhuolu Mine. China Huaxin borrowed $25.93 million from three shareholders; of the $25.93 million, $7.30 million has an interest rate of 10% with a due date of the 6th month anniversary of the date of official production. The remaining payables bear no interest, and are payable upon demand. In addition, China Huaxin borrowed $5.30 million from certain companies owned by its major shareholder, which bear no interest and are payable upon demand.
Contractual Obligations
We have certain fixed contractual obligations and commitments in respect of which we estimate future payments. Changes in our business needs, cancellation provisions, changing interest rates, and other factors may result in actual payments differing from the estimates. We cannot provide certainty regarding the timing and amounts of payments. We present below a summary of the most significant assumptions used in our determination of amounts presented in the tables, in order to assist in the review of this information within the context of our consolidated financial position, results of operations, and cash flows.
The following table summarizes our contractual obligations as of December 31, 2017, and the effect these obligations are expected to have on our liquidity and cash flows in future periods.
Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements
We have not entered into any financial guarantees or other commitments to guarantee the obligations of any third parties. We have not entered into any derivative contracts that are indexed to our shares and classified as shareholder’s equity or that are not reflected in our consolidated financial statements. Furthermore, we do not have any retained or contingent interest in assets transferred to an unconsolidated entity that serves as credit, liquidity or market risk support to such entity. We do not have any variable interest in any unconsolidated entity that provides financing, liquidity, market risk or credit support to us or engages in leasing, hedging or research and development services with us.
Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates
Our management’s discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations is based on our consolidated financial statements, which were prepared in accordance with US GAAP. While our significant accounting policies are more fully described in Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements, we believe the following accounting policies are the most critical to aid you in fully understanding and evaluating this management discussion and analysis.
Emerging Growth Company
On April 5, 2012, the JOBS Act was signed into law. The JOBS Act contains provisions that, among other things, reduce certain reporting requirements for qualifying public companies. As an “emerging growth company,” we may, under Section 7(a)(2)(B) of the Securities Act, delay adoption of new or revised accounting standards applicable to public companies until such standards would otherwise apply to private companies. We may take advantage of this extended transition period until the first to occur of the date that we (i) are no longer an “emerging growth company” or (ii) affirmatively and irrevocably opt out of this extended transition period. We elected to take advantage of the benefits of this extended transition period. Our financial statements may therefore not be comparable to those of companies that comply with such new or revised accounting standards. Until the date we are no longer an “emerging growth company” or affirmatively and irrevocably opt out of the exemption provided by Securities Act Section 7(a)(2)(B), upon issuance of a new or revised accounting standard that applies to our financial statements and that has a different effective date for public and private companies, we will disclose the date on which adoption is required for non-emerging growth companies and the date on which we will adopt the recently issued accounting standard. The Jobs Act also provides exemption from auditor reporting on the Company’s Internal Control Over Financial reporting as required by section 404(b) of the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002.
Basis of Presentations
Our financial statements are prepared in accordance with US GAAP and the requirements of Regulation S-X promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”).
Going Concern
We incurred net losses of $7.17 million for the year ended December 31, 2017. We also had a working capital deficit of $54.04 million as of December 31, 2017. In addition, we have refused to sell our iron ore concentrate to our sole customer because of the low price offered for our product. These conditions raise substantial doubt as to whether we can continue as a going concern. The financial statements do not include any adjustments that might result from the outcome of this uncertainty. One shareholder has indicated she will continue to fund China Jinxin, though there is no written agreement in place and the Company currently owes $10.17 million to the shareholder. In addition, China Huaxin borrowed $25.93 million from three shareholders, and borrowed $5.30 million from certain companies owned by its major shareholder. Despite such commitments, there is no assurance that adequate cash will be available from current shareholders or from third parties and, if it is available, what the terms of any loan or investment might be. If we are unable to obtain the funding required, we may have to curtail or cease our operations. The Company has no specific plans, understandings or agreements with respect to the raising of such funds, and it may seek to raise the required capital by the issuance of equity or debt securities or by other means. Since it has no such arrangements or plans currently in effect, its inability to raise funds may have a severe negative impact on its ability to become a viable company.
Use of Estimates
In preparing financial statements in conformity with US GAAP, management makes estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities at the dates of the financial statements, as well as the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Significant estimates, required by management, include the recoverability of long-lived assets, allowance for doubtful accounts, and the reserve for obsolete and slow-moving inventories. Actual results could differ from those estimates.
Revenue Recognition
The Company’s revenue recognition policies comply with SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin (“SAB”) 104 (codified in FASB ASC Topic 605). Sales are recognized when a formal arrangement exists, which is generally represented by a contract between the Company and the buyer; the price is fixed or determinable; title has passed to the buyer, which generally is at the time of delivery; no other significant obligations of the Company exist and collectability is reasonably assured. Payments received before all of the relevant criteria for revenue recognition are recorded as unearned revenue.
Sales were the invoiced value of iron ore and iron ore concentrate, net of value-added tax (“VAT”). All of the Company’s iron ore concentrate sold in the PRC is subject to a VAT of 17% of the gross sales price. This VAT may be offset by VAT paid by the Company on raw materials and other materials included in the cost of producing the finished product. The Company records VAT payable and VAT receivable net of payments in the financial statements. The VAT tax return is filed offsetting the payables against the receivables. Sales and purchases are recorded net of VAT collected and paid as the Company acts as an agent for the government.
The Company uses FASB ASC Topic 220, “Comprehensive Income”. Comprehensive income is comprised of net income and all changes to the statements of stockholders’ equity, except those due to investments by stockholders, changes in paid-in capital and distributions to stockholders.
Foreign Currency Translation and Comprehensive Income (Loss)
The functional currency is the Renminbi (“RMB”). For financial reporting purposes, RMB were translated into United States Dollars (“USD” or “$”) as the reporting currency. Assets and liabilities are translated at the exchange rate in effect at the balance sheet date. Revenues and expenses are translated at the average rate of exchange prevailing during the reporting period.
Translation adjustments arising from the use of different exchange rates from period to period are included as a component of stockholders’ equity as “Accumulated other comprehensive income”. Gains and losses resulting from foreign currency transactions are included in income. There has been no significant fluctuation in the exchange rate for the conversion of RMB to USD after the balance sheet date.
The fluctuation of exchange rates does not imply free convertibility of RMB to other foreign currencies. All foreign exchange transactions continue to take place either through the People’s Bank of China (“PBOC”) or other banks authorized to buy and sell foreign currencies at the exchange rate quoted by the PBOC.
The Company uses FASB ASC Topic 220, “Comprehensive Income”. Comprehensive income is comprised of net income and all changes to the statements of stockholders’ equity, except those due to investments by stockholders, changes in paid-in capital and distributions to stockholders.
Segment Reporting
Disclosures about segments of an enterprise and related information require use of the “management approach” model for segment reporting, codified in FASB ASC Topic 280. The management approach model is based on the way a company’s management organizes segments within the company for making operating decisions and assessing performance. Reportable segments are based on products and services, geography, legal structure, management structure, or any other manner in which management disaggregates a company.
FASB ASC Topic 280 has no effect on the Company’s financial statements as substantially all of its operations are conducted in one industry segment - iron ore refining.
Recent Accounting Pronouncements
In February 2016, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) No. 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842). The guidance in ASU 2016-02 supersedes the lease recognition requirements in ASC Topic 840, Leases (FAS 13). ASU 2016-02 requires an entity to recognize assets and liabilities arising from a lease for both financing and operating leases, along with additional qualitative and quantitative disclosures. ASU 2016-02 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, with early adoption permitted. The Company is currently evaluating the effect this standard will have on its CFS.
In August 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-15, Classification of Certain Cash Receipts and Cash Payments. ASU 2016-15 clarifies the presentation and classification of certain cash receipts and cash payments in the statement of cash flows. This ASU is effective for public business entities for fiscal years, and interim periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 2017. Early adoption is permitted. The Company is currently assessing the potential impact of ASU 2016-15 on its CFS.
In October 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-16-Income Taxes (Topic 740): Intra-Entity Transfers of Assets Other Than Inventory. This ASU improves the accounting for the income tax consequences of intra-entity transfers of assets other than inventory. For public business entities, the amendments in this update are effective for annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2017, including interim reporting periods within those annual reporting periods. Early adoption is permitted. The Company does not anticipate that the adoption of this ASU will have a significant impact on its CFS.
In November 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-18, Statement of Cash Flows (Topic 230): Restricted Cash. The guidance requires that a statement of cash flows explain the change during the period in the total of cash, cash equivalents, and amounts generally described as restricted cash or restricted cash equivalents. Therefore, amounts generally described as restricted cash and restricted cash equivalents should be included with cash and cash equivalents when reconciling the beginning-of-period and end-of-period total amounts shown on the statement of cash flows. The standard is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2017, and interim period within those fiscal years. Early adoption is permitted, including adoption in an interim period. The standard should be applied using a retrospective transition method to each period presented. The Company does not anticipate that the adoption of this ASU will have a significant impact on its CFS.
In January 2017, the FASB issued ASU No. 2017-01, Business Combinations (Topic 805): Clarifying the Definition of a Business, which clarifies the definition of a business with the objective of adding guidance to assist entities with evaluating whether transactions should be accounted for as acquisitions or disposals of assets or businesses. The standard is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2017, including interim periods within those fiscal years. Early adoption is permitted. The standard should be applied prospectively on or after the effective date. The Company will evaluate the impact of adopting this standard prospectively upon any transactions of acquisitions or disposals of assets or businesses.
In January 2017, the FASB issued ASU 2017-04, Simplifying the Test for Goodwill Impairment. The guidance removes Step 2 of the goodwill impairment test, which requires a hypothetical purchase price allocation. A goodwill impairment will now be the amount by which a reporting unit’s carrying value exceeds its fair value, not to exceed the carrying amount of goodwill. The guidance should be adopted on a prospective basis for the annual or any interim goodwill impairment tests beginning after December 15, 2019. Early adoption is permitted for interim or annual goodwill impairment tests performed on testing dates after January 1, 2017. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of adopting this standard on its CFS.
Other recent accounting pronouncements issued by the FASB, including its Emerging Issues Task Force, the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, and the SEC did not or are not believed by management to have a material impact on the Company’s present or future CFS.
Item 7A