ITEM 2. PROPERTIES.
Our offices
We rent the premises for our principal office located at 5610 E Sutler Lane, Tucson, Arizona 85712. We rent this office space which is located in the home of our Chief Geologist and CEO for $522 per month plus a pro rata share of taxes and maintenance. Our employees work either from our principal office or from offices maintained in their homes.
We believe that our existing office facilities are adequate for our needs through January 31, 2014. Should we require additional space at that time, or prior thereto, we believe that such space can be secured on commercially reasonable terms.
Our warehouse
On June 1, 2011 we rented a warehouse located at Building No. 1, 7900 South Kolb Road, Tucson, Arizona 85706. We rent this warehouse space for $3,620 per month. The lease is in effect until May 31, 2013. In addition to using the warehouse for standard purposes, such as storage of our exploration equipment, supplies and samples, the warehouse space also includes office facilities for the use of field geologists and geotechs.
Our mineral claims
We have investigated titles to all of our mineral properties and, to the best of our knowledge, titles to all properties are in good standing as of January 31, 2013. Because of competitive pressure in Arizona we do not reveal claim positions at this time.
North Pipes Super Project (“North Pipes” and “NPSP”):
We hold a 100% interest in 431 Federal lode mining claims strategically placed on the Arizona Strip. The 431 Federal lode mining claims include breccia pipe targets (“Pipes”). Breccia pipes are cylindrical formations in the earth’s crust sometimes identified by a surface depression, or surface bump or no visible surface expression at all, and contain a high concentration of fragmented rock “breccia” sometimes cemented by uranium and other minerals. We plan to ascertain whether our North Pipes claims possess commercially viable deposits of uranium.
Our NPSP claims are undeveloped. There are neither open-pit nor underground mines, nor is there any mining plant or equipment located on the properties. There is no power supply to the properties. We have not found any mineral resources on any of our claims. The Arizona Strip was an active exploration district in the 1970’s and 1980’s with multiple producing uranium mines. No evidence of actual development work has been found on any of our properties and no significant exploration activities have been performed on our NPSP claims since 2008 due to many factors including the lowered uranium prices and the moratorium on locating claims. Below is a summary of prior exploration activities performed on our NPSP claims:
Geophysics: We have completed PEM (Pulse Electro-magnetic) geophysical surveys on some of our NPSP claims. Two types of PEM surveys were conducted in 2007: (i) Downhole PEM and (ii) In-Loop PEM. We have also used CSAMT and NSAMT (Controlled and Natural Source Audio-range Magneto Tellurics), run on the ground and executed by Zonge Engineering of Tucson AZ. A survey was also completed by Geotech on an approximately six square area by VTEM helicopter borne electromagnetic survey along right angle crossing grid lines spaced 100 meters apart, which was performed by Geotech of Aurora, Ontario, Canada. Significant anomalies resulted from this survey. Preliminary drilling of one Liberty Star’s anomalies intersected strong breccia, alteration and pyrite mineralization. The holes did not penetrate down to the elevation where uranium mineralization would be expected, but are targets for future work. As of this date we have not developed any uranium resources on the Arizona Strip.
Stereoscopic geologic color air photo interpretation (photo-geology): Stereoscopic geologic interpretation of 1:24,000 (1 inch = 2,000 feet) high resolution color air photographs were contracted for and completed by Dr. Karen Weinrich and Edward Ulmer, a Registered Professional Geologist. Dr. Weinrich worked on the Arizona Strip uranium bearing breccia pipes almost exclusively during her twenty three year tenure with the United States Geological Survey from which she is now retired. During this period of study she authored many professional papers on breccia pipes of the Grant Canyon area, and is considered a foremost expert on them. Mr. Ulmer worked on the Arizona Strip in the mid to late 1970s working on both imagery interpretation and surface geology.
Geologic field mapping on the surface: Geological field mapping was conducted in the fall of 2005 through 2007 by our staff geologists as well as contracted geologists. Approximately 180 of the breccias pipe target areas have been mapped in detail 1:5,000 (1 inch = 417 feet). Several detailed measured stratigraphic sections have also been completed.
Geochemical sampling: A comprehensive soil geochemical survey was completed in 2007. We have collected approximately 14,000 soil samples over all identifiable breccias pipes, both those with known ore and those that are yet to be proven by drilling. A strict chain of custody procedures were followed and quality assurance/quality control (QA/QC) samples were inserted regularly into the sample stream. The samples were assayed for 63 elements. Assay analyses were conducted by a Certified Assay Lab, Acme Analytical Laboratories of Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada. We believe that these samples allow us to identify potential uranium bearing breccia pipes versus barren or non-uranium bearing breccias pipes.
Drilling: In 2007 a drilling program was undertaken using both rotary drilling and core drilling. Rotary drilling was contracted by Boart Longyear. Diamond core drilling was completed by Redwall Drilling Inc., a former wholly owned subsidiary of Liberty Star. A total of 22 holes were drilled for a total of 16,226 feet of drilling. Important intersections of rock generally associated with producing breccias pipes were made. We did not intersect any ore mineralization during the drilling program.
Bonanza Hills Project (“Bonanza Hills”):
We have relinquished these claims during 2012; returned to the State of Alaska.
Big Chunk Super Project (“Big Chunk”) - Location, claims, geology and technical studies:
We hold a 100% interest in 612 mineral claims covering approximately 177 square miles in the Iliamna region of Southwestern Alaska, located on the north side of the Cook Inlet, approximately 265 miles southwest of the city of Anchorage, Alaska. We plan to ascertain whether the Big Chunk claims possess commercially viable deposits of copper, gold, molybdenum, silver, palladium, rhenium and zinc. As of November 14, 2012, 199 claims have been designated for transfer to Northern Dynasty in conjunction with a pending loan settlement agreement. Once this transaction has been completed, we will retain 413 Alaska claims.
Our Big Chunk claims are undeveloped. The claims are located in a remote area of Southwestern Alaska near Lake Illiamna, Alaska’s largest lake. The claims are immediately adjacent and contiguous to the Pebble mine property and about 3 miles north east from the Pebble Porphyry copper, gold, molybdenum, silver, palladium, rhenium and zinc mineral deposit which is reportedly one of the largest of its type in the world. In 2011, the Company engaged the international firm of SRK Consulting, Engineering and Scientist of Tucson (“SRK”) through its Tucson, Arizona office to prepare a Technical Report in the same format of the internationally accepted Canadian National Instrument NI 43-101. In their report which encompasses some 194 pages of technical data, they compared the Northern Dynasty NI 43-101 geologic and drill data, published on the Northern Dynasty web site in its entirety, to results of Liberty Star’s technical work on the Big Chunk ground. They concluded amongst other things: (1) Twenty seven scout diamond drill holes drilled by Liberty Star in 2004 - 2005 intersected the same rock types as were intersected in the exploration drilling on the Pebble deposit (2) All drill holes, which were spaced over some 500 square miles, intersected the outer shell or propylitic halo of multiple porphyry copper systems, which is the model co-developed by our director, Dr. John Guilbert; and (3) Copper and molybdenum sulfides along with low grade gold were intersected in two drill holes in the White Sox target area. “This mineralization and associated alteration may indicate a porphyry Cu-Mo system”(SRK Big Chunk Technical Report- page 109, 11.2 Results of Drilling, available on the Liberty Star Web Site. The area of the Big Chunk Claims is largely covered by glacial debris, soil, and tundra. There are no open-pit or underground mines, nor is there any mining plant or equipment located on the properties. There is no power supply to the properties. There is no road access to the properties, but such public road access is planned for the Pebble mine, and as currently planned, that road will cross the Company’s land, and be accessible for the Company’s use. Extensive geotechnical data on the Big Chunk claims has been acquired between start-up of 2004 and the current time. Extensive geophysical data has been acquired by the Company of several types, which includes the following:
(1) an extensive air borne magnetic survey flown by McPhar Geosurveys Ltd., Newmarket, Ontario Canada over 18,243 line kilometers covering 3,646 square kilometers using: (a) a draped survey with a mean elevation of the instrument above the terrain of 200 meters (600 feet) feet; (b) a line spacing of 250 meters (800 feet); (c) and a sample interval of 8 meters (26.4 feet). State of the art magnetometer, GPS, radar altimeter, and computer recording of data were used and in our opinion no other survey of this quality and precision is available in the area.
(2) one hundred twenty seven linear miles of Induced Polarization (IP) was run by Zonge Engineering of Tucson AZ. Of necessity lines were brushed of all trees and undergrowth and all access was by helicopter, however, the lines themselves were done on the ground by foot. All data was recorded on appropriate computers, downloaded each evening and sent to the Zonge Office in Tucson and to our consulting geophysicist Mr. Jan Klein in Vancouver, BC, Canada. Mr. Klein supervised all IP and other geophysical surveys over the Pebble for Cominco who sold the Pebble Project to Northern Dynasty. Thus, we believe Mr Klein has had more experience in the geophysics of the area, which includes over 2,000 square miles, than any other geophysicist. The results were interpreted and sent back to the Alaska headquarters every night.
(3) Liberty Star contracted with Geotech Limited of London, Ontario, Canada to run their ZTEM Electro Magnetic (EM) airborne survey equipment over the Big Chunk project. This thoroughly tested system can look down 2,000 meters (6,000 feet) in to the crust of the earth and detect sulfide mineralization associated with porphyry copper-gold systems, as well as other geologic features. This survey was completed in August 2009. The survey covered 315.2 sq kilometers (121.7 sq miles) and consisted of north-south lines spaced 250 meters apart on our Big Chunk Super Project mineral claims. In May 2010, Liberty Star received feedback from Geotech Ltd. that its interpretation showed at least 4 to 7 signatures that are consistent with porphyry copper responses. The 2D computer model shows typical low responsive areas, which could correspond to an ore mineral core zones with a surrounding responsive cylinders representing a pyrite halos typical of Porphyry copper systems. For control, Geotech flew a survey the day after completing the Big Chunk survey, over the Pebble mineral deposit. The anomalies on Big Chunk show strong similarities to the Pebble.
During the field seasons of 2004 and 2005 Liberty collected approximately eleven thousand geochemical samples. The sampling program was designed by both consulting geochemist, Shea Clark Smith, of MEG Laboratories in the Reno area of Nevada, and Liberty Chief Geologist, James Briscoe. The sampling program was based on many years of geochemical studies and sampling throughout the world by Mr. Smith, and his Masters Degree thesis on sampling tundra plants and detecting metals in their woody stems reflecting metals at depth. Further, Mr. Smith and Mr. Briscoe used this technique to locate buried porphyry copper deposits in the Silver Bell district (see discussion of the East Silver Bell Project in this report) near Tucson, Arizona in 1996 -1998. The methodology was conceived, discovered and proven in a well known porphyry district south of Tucson, Arizona between the period 1950 to 1955. At Big Chunk the samples collected included: (1) stream sediment; (2) stream water; (3) pond and small-lake water; (4) soil samples; and (5) vegetation sampling new growth of woody plants. These samples were analyzed by Acme Labs, a Certified Assayer in Canada for 64 elements for each sample. For the eleven thousand samples, this resulted in approximately seven hundred thousand separate analyses including blanks, repeat and control samples part of the QA/QC (Quality Assurance Quality Control) procedures. Because of the overload worldwide in all assay labs at the time, turnaround time for the assays was up to three or more months. After receipt of the samples, they were processed using computer techniques and the results analyzed and interpreted. Known indicator elements, including porphyry copper-gold mineral center elements, formed typical porphyry copper center anomaly zones. Additionally, samples taken by Liberty Star over the Pebble deposit, with the permission of Northern Dynasty, indicated that mineral body to be detectable by these methods. The geochemical methodology was used by the US Geological Survey, under contract for the Pebble partnership over the Pebble mineral zone, and data was published in 2010. It was again shown to be effective in indicating the Pebble deposit mineralization at depth. The anomalies generated by both deep looking ZTEM and geochemistry by Liberty Star have been tested by published results from drilling in the Pebble mineral body. The same types of targets in the Liberty Star Big Chunk have yet to be tested by drilling.
We are unaware of any previous claim ownership anywhere on our Big Chunk claims in Alaska. No historical drilling resulting in mineral resources or reserves appears in the published literature concerning the property. Minor exploration was conducted by Teck Cominco Alaska, and Anaconda Mining Inc. The United States Geological Survey does not do exploration but they had done minor geological mapping in the north part of the Big Chunk caldera, along with widely spaced aeromag surveys in the same area. We are not aware of any prior exploration that was conducted on our Big Chunk claims in Alaska prior to January 10, 2004, when our aerial magnetic survey began.
We have not defined mineral resources on any of our claims at Big Chunk.
Letter Agreement and Secured Convertible Note with Northern Dynasty Minerals Ltd. With Respect to Big Chunk
On July 15, 2010, we issued a secured convertible promissory note (the “2010 Convertible Note”) to Northern Dynasty Minerals Ltd (“Northern Dynasty”). The original advanced amount is $4,000,000 and bears interest at a rate of 10% per annum compounded monthly (the “Loan”). On August 17, 2010, we transferred 95 of our Alaska State mineral claims from the Big Chunk Super Project to Northern Dynasty for consideration of $1,000,000 of the original advanced amount under the Convertible Note, leaving $3,000,000 of the Loan amount outstanding. No interest accrued on the $1,000,000 of the original advanced amount. Effective September 1, 2011, the agreement with Northern Dynasty was amended to increase the 2010 Convertible Note by $561,816 to reimburse Northern Dynasty for assessment work, rental fees, cash in lieu of assessment work and filing fees on the mineral claims that was paid in fiscal 2011 and fiscal 2012 because we could not come to an agreement on an earn-in option and joint venture agreement with Northern Dynasty. On February 29, 2012, with effect from November 30, 2011, we executed an additional convertible promissory note (the “2011 Convertible Note” and together with the 2010 Convertible Note, the “Convertible Notes”) in the amount of $168,358 in reimbursement to Northern Dynasty of assessment work, rental fees and filing fees on our mineral claims.
As part of the transactions noted above, we entered into a letter agreement with Northern Dynasty whereby, subject to negotiating and signing a definitive earn-in option and joint venture agreement, Northern Dynasty could earn a 60% interest in our Big Chunk and Bonanza Hills projects in Alaska (the “Joint Venture Claims”) by spending $10,000,000 on those properties over six years. The outstanding loan amounts from Northern Dynasty could be applied as part of Northern Dynasty’s earn-in requirements. Northern Dynasty’s minimum annual expenditures under the earn-in would be the minimum level necessary to keep the Joint Venture Claims in good standing. Northern Dynasty could elect to abandon the earn-in at any time on 30 days’ notice, so long as sufficient annual labor was performed, or a cash payment in lieu of labor was made, in order to fulfill the annual labor requirements for the Joint Venture Claims for a minimum of 12 months after termination of the earn-in.
On November 14, 2012, we signed a loan settlement agreement with Northern Dynasty which would have discharged the $3,730,174 principal balance and $972,617 of accrued interest for the 2010 Convertible Note and would have terminated Northern Dynasty’s earn-in rights. In exchange for the settlement, we initiated transfer of 199 Alaska mining claims to Northern Dynasty’s subsidiary, U5 Resources. The transaction has not yet been completed.
Tombstone Super Project (“Tombstone”):
Our CEO and Chief Geologist, James Briscoe, has long experience in the Tombstone district, where he first worked in 1972. In the mid-1980s, he concluded that much earlier regional geologic work had reached erroneous conclusions and that Tombstone was a large and ancient (72 million years before the present - or Laramide in age) volcanic structure - a caldera. He brought this to the attention of the US Geological Survey caldera experts, who after study concluded that Briscoe was correct. Subsequently, more than seventeen calderas of various ages have been identified in Arizona, by the US Geological survey, the Arizona Geological Survey and others. Such calderas of Laramide age are all associated with porphyry alteration and copper and associated mineralization; many of these have become very large copper mines. Studies by Mr. Briscoe over the years, and more recently using advanced technology, have indicated that alteration associated mineralization at Tombstone is much more extensive than originally thought. This alteration lays largely under cover and is indicated by geochemistry, geophysics and projection of known geology into covered areas.
We hold 66 standard Federal lode mining claims located due east and southeast of the town of Tombstone, Arizona. We also hold Arizona State Mineral Exploration Permits (MEPs) covering 4766.9 acres or 7.45 square miles in the same area. We also hold an option to explore 33 standard Federal lode mining claims located in the same region. We plan to ascertain whether the Tombstone lode mining claims and MEPs possess commercially viable deposits of copper, gold, molybdenum, silver, zinc and other valuable metals.
The Tombstone claims are undeveloped. However significant amounts of aeromagnetic surveys, IP (Induced Polarization Surveys), geologic mapping by the USGS and others, and geochemical surveys including soil, rock and vegetation sampling have been conducted at various times by various parties, over the last 60 years. When compiled and analyzed these various data suggest a compelling series of anomalies that are typical of buried, dirt and rock covered porphyry copper system(s). Below is a summary of prior exploration activities performed on our Tombstone claims:
Technical Report: In mid March 2011, Liberty Star contracted SRK to prepare three (3) Technical studies and Reports in a form similar to mineral reports prescribed under NI 43-101. Members of SRK’s engineering/scientific staff supervised by a Qualified Person as defined under NI 43-101 and SRK’s Tucson Office Principal Geologist, Corolla Hoag, and geologist Dr. Jan Rasmussen have visited the Tombstone property. This information was combined with historic technical reports going back to 1878 and more recent data up to August 2011 (the date of their reports). The three Technical Reports are entitled: (1) Walnut Creek Exploration Report, Tombstone District, Arizona -August 31, 2011, 147 pages; (2) The Tombstone Caldera South Exploration Report, Tombstone District, Arizona -August 31, 2011, 144 pages; and (3) Hay Mountain Exploration Report, Tombstone District, Arizona - August 31 2011, 155 pages. We had also requested that SRK prepare a report on the Tombstone Consolidated Mines patented claims. These claims covered the entirety of historic productive area of the Tombstone mines which date to their discovery in 1877. However, before that report could be completed a competitor acquired a lease on those lands. These Technical Reports thoroughly summarize and illustrate the salient geotechnical data of the Tombstone Mining District covering about 250 square miles and present much data in computer map format. In such context, they analyze Liberty Star’s exploration programs as related to the entire area, make estimates and recommend execution of proposed Company exploration programs. Because of competitive pressure and the unique nature of the data which includes 40+ years of private report compilation by James Briscoe, our CEO, these reports are considered confidential and will not be released for the foreseeable future.
Geochemical sampling at the Hay Mountain Project: In 2011 and early 2012 we collected nearly 1,800 rock, soil and vegetation samples over 621 sample sites over approximately 14 square miles centered on the Hay Mountain property. These samples have been assayed for 63 elements generating about 113,000 analyses. The samples were prepared by MEG Inc. and have been shipped to ALS Minerals (ALS-Chemex) a Certified (under NI 43-101 criteria and approved by regulatory processes) geochemical analysis lab in Vancouver, British Columbia. Assay results are being sent to our Tucson office and when all assays are received our geology team will be able to generate computer analyses that allow interpretation of the data.
ZTEM EM Survey: We have requested and have received a cost estimate from Geotech of Aurora (Toronto area) Ontario, Canada, which is the only purveyor of this helicopter borne electromagnetic (EM) geophysical method. We anticipate flying the Tombstone area this spring or summer. This geophysical method has the ability to “look down” into the crust of the earth about 2,000 meters (6,000 feet) and detect sulfides which may be associated with porphyry copper systems. Test work over known Safford, Arizona porphyry copper deposits along with thousands of verifying drill holes show the geometry of such mineral systems can be determined, thus identifying whether it is a porphyry copper system or some other mineral system,. When combined with our geochemical data, we can determine the position of the copper-moly center of the system and design our drill program to efficiently test and define mineralization.
East Silver Bell Porphyry Copper Project (“East Silver Bell” or “ESB”):
Located northwest of Tucson, Arizona, the claims currently are within the Ironwood National Monument, which was established after the claims were staked and validated by numerous drill holes in addition to extensive technical studies. We plan to ascertain whether the East Silver Bell claims possess commercially viable deposits of copper. We hold an option to explore 26 standard Federal lode mining claims located in the same region. The optioned mineral claims are owned by JABA US Inc., a corporation in which two of our directors are owners. We have not identified any ore reserves to date.
The East Silver Bell claims are undeveloped. The ESB block of claims were staked circa 1994 about five miles east of the ASARCO Solvent-Extraction-Electro-Winning (SXEW) plant. The East Silver Bell claims are directly adjacent and contiguous to the ASARCO Patented (fee simple) lands. Circa 1994 JABA (US) Inc. compiled geophysics -consisting of existing, widely spaced airborne magnetics, collected soil and vegetation geochemical samples, performed detailed photo interpretation from high resolution color aerial photography, mapped surface geology, breccia pipes and performed detailed mapping and interpretation of leached capping and performed very closely spaced man borne magnetic surveys over alteration and projection of the edge of the Silver Bell caldera and associated mineral belt that includes the Silver Bell porphyry copper mines that could be seen on the color air photos. The surface magnetic survey was interpreted by geophysicist Edward DeRidder, who pointed out a magnetic low that he interpreted as a porphyry copper magnetic low. Subsequently, north-south Induced Polarization (IP) lines were run and interpreted by Zonge engineering, to show a sulfide response at 900 to 1,000 feet below the surface. All of this data was plotted in 3D images showing overlapping and mutually reinforcing geochemical, ground magnetic and IP geophysics, and geologic- alteration mapped anomalies. Half of this responsive area lies on the adjacent ASARCO ground and half lies on JABA (US) ground. Subsequent to these studies, the ground was lease-optioned to Valarie Gold Exploration Inc., (Valarie) a Canadian exploration company. They drilled 6 holes to a predetermined depth of 600 feet, using a rotary drill and recovered drill chips, sampled at 5 foot intervals. The drilling penetrated and recovered classic chalcocite leached capping typical of that material occurring over ore bodies in the Silver Bell mines of North Silver Bell, El Tiro and Oxide open pit mines. Geochemical assays of the cuttings showed three to four relict ghost copper enriched zones to the final arbitrary depth of six hundred feet. These holes did not penetrate the leached chalcocite capping rock and did not enter sulfides. Valarie relinquished their lease. Latter Kennecott Copper Corp. optioned the claims and drilled three rotary drill holes. Of these holes two twisted off the drill bits at shallow depth and had to be abandoned while in the leached chalcocite capping. One hole penetrated to a depth of 1,000 feet but poor sampling procedures negated any meaningful data from this hole, when primary samples were irretrievably lost. These two drill attempts were predictably not successful but geochemistry from the Valarie drill holes did show shadow geochemical copper enrichment indicating chalcocite enrichment in the sulfide blanket below and the Kennecott effort did recover some chalcocite (enriched copper sulfide) Circa 1998 the Ironwood National Monument was created over JABA’s valid mining claims. The surface of these claims cannot be used to extract the copper mineral body below by the open pit mining method. Since half of the of the geophysically, geochemically, geologically, alteration indicated mineral body is located on ASARCO patented land and because the ASARCO SXEW plant is only five miles to the west, it is believed that this mineral body can be extracted from the ASARCO property by underground - in situ leach technology at some point in the future. To date we have not identified any ore reserves on the East Silver Bell Project.
We have not found any mineral resources on any of our claims.
ITEM 3.