ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
Facilities
Our office in Dallas consists of 11,847 square feet of leased office space. The operating partnership owns a field office in Hooker, Oklahoma and leases part of an office in Amarillo, Texas.
Properties
We own two categories of properties: the Royalty Properties and the Net Profits Interests.
Royalty Properties
We own Royalty Properties representing producing and nonproducing mineral, royalty, overriding royalty, net profits and leasehold interests in properties located in 573 counties and parishes in 25 states. Acreage amounts listed herein represent our best estimates based on information provided to us as a royalty owner. Due to the significant number of individual deeds, leases and similar instruments involved in the acquisition and development of the Royalty Properties by us or our predecessors, acreage amounts are subject to change as new information becomes available. In addition, as a royalty owner, our access to information concerning activity and operations on the Royalty Properties is limited. Most of our producing properties are subject to old leases and other contracts pursuant to which we are not entitled to well information. Some of our newer leases provide for access to technical data and other information. We may have limited access to public data in some areas through third party subscription services. Consequently, the exact number of wells producing from or drilling on the Royalty Properties is not determinable. The primary manner by which we will become aware of activity on the Royalty Properties is the receipt of division orders or other correspondence from operators or purchasers.
Acreage Summary
The following table sets forth as of December 31, 2007, a summary of our gross and net, where applicable, acres of mineral, royalty, overriding royalty and leasehold interests, and a compilation of the number of counties and parishes and states in which these interests are located. The majority of our net mineral acres are unleased. Acreage amounts may not add across due to overlapping ownership among categories.
Our net interest in production from royalty, overriding royalty and leasehold interests is based on lease royalty and other third-party contractual terms, which vary from property to property. Consequently, net acreage ownership in these categories is not determinable. Our net interest in production from properties in which we own a royalty or overriding royalty interest may be affected by royalty terms negotiated by the mineral interest owners in such tracts and their lessees. Our interest in the majority of these properties is perpetual in nature. However, a minor portion of the properties are subject to terms and conditions pursuant to which a portion of our interest may terminate upon cessation of production.
The following table sets forth, as of December 31, 2007, the combined summary of total gross and net (where applicable) acres of mineral, royalty, overriding royalty and leasehold interests in each of the states in which these interests are located.
Leasing Activity
We received cash payments in the amount of $609,000 during 2007 attributable to lease bonus on 101 leases and six pooling elections in lands located in 27 counties and parishes in six states. These leases reflected bonus payments ranging up to $500/acre and initial royalty terms ranging up to 40%. Many of these leases contain additional overriding royalty interests and provisions for optional working interest participation in subsequent wells, back-in working interests after payout or escalating royalty terms.
We received cash payments in the amount of $172,000 during the fourth quarter of 2007 attributable to lease bonus on 14 leases and three pooling elections of our interests in lands located in 16 counties and parishes in two states. These leases reflected bonus payments ranging up to $500/acre and initial royalty terms ranging up to 40%.
The following table sets forth a summary of leases and pooling elections consummated during 2005 through 2007.
Eight leases were granted for no bonus consideration in 2007, which reflected royalty terms ranging from 25% to 40%. Average bonus and royalty terms reflected above include these eight leases. Five leases were granted in 2007, which included (in addition to royalty or bonus) an overriding royalty interest, back-in working interest or optional working interest participation. Average royalty terms reflected above do not reflect these additional interests. Amounts reflected above may differ from our consolidated financial statements, which are presented on an accrual basis. Average royalty and average bonus exclude amounts attributable to pooling elections. Payments received for gas storage, shut-in and delay rental payments, coal royalty, surface use agreements, litigation judgments and settlement proceeds are reflected in our consolidated financial statements in various categories including, but not limited to, other operating revenues and other income.
Appalachian Basin
We own varying undivided perpetual mineral interests in approximately 31,000/22,000 gross/net acres in 19 counties in Southern New York and Northern Pennsylvania. Approximately 75% of these net acres are located in eastern Allegany and western Steuben Counties, New York, areas which some industry press reports suggest may be prospective for gas production from unconventional reservoirs including the Marcellus Shale. We have engaged in discussions regarding these lands but have not reached an agreement concerning a lease or other transaction. We will continue to monitor industry activity to determine the proper course of action to represent the partnership’s interests.
Net Profits Interests
We own net profits overriding royalty interests (referred to as the Net Profits Interests) in various properties owned by the operating partnership. We receive monthly payments equaling 96.97% of the net profits actually realized by the operating partnership from these properties in the preceding month. In the event costs exceed revenues on a cash basis in a given month for properties subject to a Net Profits Interest, no payment is made and any deficit is accumulated and carried over and reflected in the following month’s calculation of net profit.
We own four separate Net Profits Interests, all of which were created in connection with the combination in 2003. Three of these Net Profits Interests have been in a continuous profit status other than temporary deficits in that revenues have exceeded costs and cash payments have been made by the operating partnership to us each quarter. The purpose of such Net Profits Interests is to avoid the participation as a working interest or other cost-bearing owner that could result in unrelated business taxable income. Net profits interest payments are not considered unrelated business taxable income for tax purposes. One such Net Profits Interest, referred to as the
Minerals NPI (previously the 2003-2006 NPI), has continuously had costs that exceed revenues. As of December 31, 2007, cumulative operating and development costs presented in the following table, which include amounts equivalent to an interest charge, exceeded cumulative revenues of the Minerals NPI, resulting in a cumulative deficit. All cumulative deficits (which represent cumulative excess of operating and development costs over revenue received) are borne 100% by our general partner until the Minerals NPI recovers the deficit amount. Once in profit status, we will receive the Net Profits Interest payments attributable to these properties. Our consolidated financial statements do not reflect activity attributable to properties subject to Net Profits Interests that are in a deficit status. Consequently, net profits interest payments, production sales volumes and prices, and oil and gas reserves set forth in other portions of this annual report do not reflect amounts attributable to the Minerals NPI, which includes, among other properties, all of the operating partnership’s Fayetteville Shale working interest properties in Arkansas.
The following tables set forth cash receipts and disbursements, production volumes and reserves attributable to the Minerals NPI for the calendar years 2003 through 2007.
The revenue amounts, the production volumes, and the proved reserves presented include only properties producing revenue. The development cost amounts pertain to more properties than the properties producing revenue due to timing differences between operating partnership expenditures and oil and gas production and payments to the operating partnership.
The indicated prices set forth above are calculated by dividing each year’s gross revenues for each product by the production volume of the corresponding product. Cash received for revenue includes minor amounts of non-product revenue. Such calculation does not necessarily reflect contractual terms for sales and may be affected by transportation costs, location differentials, quality and gravity adjustments and timing differences between production and cash receipts, including release of suspended funds, initial payments for accumulated sales, or prior period adjustments.
(1)
All reserves are proved developed.
Amounts in the above tables reflect the operating partnership’s ownership of the subject properties. Net Profits Interest payments to us, if any, will equal 96.97% of the cumulative net profits actually received by the operating partnership attributable to the subject properties. The above production sales volumes, indicated prices, oil and gas reserves, and financial information attributable to the Minerals NPI may not be indicative of future results of the Minerals NPI and may not indicate when the deficit status may end and when Net Profits Interests payment may begin from the Minerals NPI.
The Minerals NPI includes numerous opportunities for the operating partnership to participate as a working interest owner in drilling activity on lands in which we owned a mineral or royalty interest as of the date such Minerals NPI was created. Most of these opportunities are evidenced by a contractual option, but not the obligation, to participate in activity located in defined lands and leases, although some arise by non-contractual means or by operation of law. With regard to the opportunities evidenced by a contractual option, the operating partnership’s decision to exercise these options and participate as a working interest owner is made on a well-by-well basis and only in the event a third party proposes to drill a well subject to the contractual option. With regard to the opportunities to participate as a working interest owner that arise non-contractually or by operation of law, we obtain or are provided those opportunities due to the actions of persons that we do not control. Thus, we are unable to project when wells may be drilled, whether the operating partnership may elect to participate, or otherwise end up participating, in such drilling or the magnitude of the corresponding investment, either individually or in the aggregate, with respect to the Minerals NPI. In the event the operating partnership does elect to participate pursuant to these options, or otherwise ends up so participating per force of certain non-contractual relationships or by operation of law, the Minerals NPI deficit is likely to increase. Regardless of the operating partnership’s future voluntary or involuntary participation, we believe net profits interest payments, if any, made upon the Minerals NPI’s first reaching profit status will be minimal as development of these properties, and consequently the operating partnership’s payments of development expenditures associated therewith, is likely to continue for at least five years. See the discussion under “Drilling Activity” below for additional information on some of these working interest participation options and possibilities.
Acreage Summary
The following tables set forth, as of December 31, 2007, information concerning properties owned by the operating partnership and subject to the Net Profits Interests, including the Minerals NPI properties. Acreage amounts listed under “Leasehold” reflect gross acres leased by the operating partnership and the working interest share (net acres) in those properties. Acreage amounts listed under “Mineral” reflect gross acres in which the operating partnership owns a mineral interest and the undivided mineral interest (net acres) in those properties. The operating partnership’s interest in these properties may be unleased, leased by others or a combination thereof. Acreage amounts may not add across due to overlapping ownership among categories.
The following table reflects the states in which the acreage amounts listed above are located.
The operating partnership owns working interests below the currently producing horizons in 47,360 gross/46,960 net acres in Texas County, Oklahoma. The operating partnership has from time to time farmed out its leasehold interests in portions of these lands, reserving an overriding royalty interest therein, and will consider additional exploration or development of these lands as circumstances warrant. The leasehold acreage includes all of the acreage in the Fayetteville Shale properties of Arkansas in which we have the right to participate.
Costs Incurred
The following table sets forth information regarding 100% of the costs incurred on a cash basis by the operating partnership during the periods indicated in connection with the properties underlying the Net Profits Interests.
(1)
The years ended December 31, 2005, 2006 and 2007 include $1,086,000, $1,691,000 and $2,647,000 respectively, attributable to NPIs not yet in pay status.
Productive Well Summary
The following table sets forth, as of December 31, 2007, the combined number of producing wells on the properties subject to the Net Profits Interests, including the Minerals NPI. Gross wells refer to wells in which a working interest is owned. Net wells are determined by multiplying gross wells by the working interest in those wells.
(1)
Multiple well units operated by someone other than the operating partnership and in which we own Net Profits Interests are included as one gross well.
Drilling Activity
We received division orders for or otherwise identified 346 new wells completed on our Royalty Properties in 11 states during 2007. Twenty-four new wells were completed and we identified eight wells that were completed in prior years on our Net Profits Interests properties, all located in seven states during 2007, with six additional wells in various stages of drilling or completion operations at year-end. Selected new wells and the royalty interests owned by us and the working and net revenue interests owned by the operating partnership are summarized in the following table:
(1)
WI means the working interest owned by the operating partnership and subject to the Net Profits Interest.
(2)
NRI means the net revenue interest attributable to our royalty interest or to the operating partnership’s royalty and working interest, which is subject to the Net Profits Interest.
Additional information concerning selected recent activity is summarized below:
Jeffress (Vicksburg S) Field, Hidalgo County, Texas-We own varying undivided mineral interests in several thousand acres in the greater Jeffress Field area of western Hidalgo County, Texas. We leased our interest in approximately 417 acres to Dan A. Hughes Company in October 2005 for a 25% royalty interest. In addition, the operating partnership was granted a 5% overriding royalty interest which was convertible to a 25% working interest at payout of the first well. The operating partnership has the option, but not the obligation, to participate for a 25% working interest in all future wells drilled on the 417-acre tract or within a surrounding area comprising approximately 1,000 acres. The Coates-Dorchester #1 reached payout in July 2006, at which time we elected to convert our overriding royalty interest to a working interest. Pursuant to the agreement, we elected to participate with a working interest in the Coates-Dorchester #2 well in 2006 and the Coates-Dorchester #3 well, which was drilled to a depth of 10,500 feet in April 2007. The Coates-Dorchester #3 well was completed in the Vicksburg formation and tested at rates of 4,209 mcf and 70 bbls per day. By November 2007, production from this well had declined to average rates of 1,944 mcf and 35 bbls per day. We own a 6.25% net revenue interest in these three wells while the operating partnership owns an additional 4.69% net revenue interest.
T-Patch (Reklaw OSO) Field, Jim Hogg and Starr Counties, Texas-We own varying undivided mineral interests totaling 6,524/2,128 gross/net acres in multiple tracts in Jim Hogg and Starr Counties, Texas that we leased to EOG Resources, Inc. (“EOG”) in 2004 and 2006. EOG completed ten wells on these lands in 2004, 2005 and 2006. In 2007, EOG drilled and completed two additional wells on these lands. The Southwest Texas Corp #8 well was drilled in March 2007 to a permitted total depth of 10,200 feet and was tested to sales at rates
of 5,169 mcf and 136 bbls per day in April 2007. The Southwest Texas Corp #9 well was drilled in June 2007 to a total depth of 10,500 feet and was tested at rates of 8,177 mcf and 273 bbls per day in July 2007. By November 2007, production from each of these wells had declined to an average rate of approximately 1,042 mcf per day. EOG drilled a thirteenth well that was a dry hole. We own a 5.1% net revenue interest in these wells.
Fayetteville Shale Trend of Northern Arkansas-We own varying undivided perpetual mineral interests totaling 23,336/11,464 gross/net acres located in Cleburne, Conway, Faulkner, Franklin, Johnson, Pope, Van Buren, and White counties, Arkansas in an area commonly referred to as the “Fayetteville Shale” trend of the Arkoma Basin. In June 2006, we leased our average 8.6% mineral interest in 179 sections in these eight counties for lease bonus payment of approximately $625 per acre, 25% royalty and five-year primary terms. Assuming all of the leased lands are pooled into 640 acre units, we will own an average 2.1% net royalty interest in each well drilled in these units. Actual net royalty interests will vary widely from this average interest based on our actual ownership in each unit. In addition to the basic lease terms, the operating partnership has the option, but not the obligation, to participate for an average 3.5% net working interest in wells drilled on 111 of the 179 sections covered by the leasing agreements. Wells have been proposed, permitted or drilled in 36 of the 184 sections in which we own an interest in this trend.
Fifty-six wells have been permitted on these lands as of February 15, 2008, of which the operating partnership has an interest in thirty-two. In total, 43 wells have been spud, 38 have been completed as producers and six are in various stages of drilling or completion operations. One well was abandoned early in the drilling process due to mechanical issues but was re-drilled and successfully completed as a producer. Set forth below is a summary of activity through February 15, 2008, for wells in which we own a royalty interest or a net profits interest:
(1)
Royalty Wells in Pay Status means wells for which cash was received during the indicated period attributable to Royalty Properties production.
Our estimated proved reserves as of December 31, 2007, include reserves attributable to our royalty interest in 19 wells totaling 741 mmcf. These wells have average gross ultimate reserves of 1.6 bcf per well. Our estimated reserves do not include amounts attributable to working interests in these or other wells located in this trend and subject to the Minerals NPI as that NPI is in a deficit status.
Net cash receipts for the Royalty Properties attributable to interests in these lands totaled $253,000 in 2007, including $130,000 during the fourth quarter from five wells.
Oil and Natural Gas Reserves
The following table reflects the Partnership’s proved developed and total proved reserves, future net revenues and Standardized Measure at December 31, 2005, 2006 and 2007. The reserves and future net revenues are based on the reports of the independent petroleum engineering consulting firms of Calhoun, Blair & Associates and Huddleston & Co., Inc. Other than those filed with the SEC, our estimated proved reserves have not been filed with or included in any reports to any federal agency.
(1)
Reserves, revenues and present values reflect 96.97% of the corresponding amounts assigned to the operating partnership’s interests in the properties underlying the Net Profits Interests.
(2)
We do not reflect a federal income tax provision since our partners include the income of our Partnership in their respective federal income tax returns.
Proved oil and gas reserves means the estimated quantities of crude oil, natural gas, and natural gas liquids which geological and engineering data demonstrate with reasonable certainty to be recoverable in future years from known reservoirs under existing economic and operating conditions, i.e., prices and costs as of the date the estimate is made. Prices include consideration of changes in existing prices provided only by contractual arrangements, but not on escalations based upon future conditions.
(i) Reservoirs are considered proved if economic producibility is supported by either actual production or conclusive formation test. The area of a reservoir considered proved includes (a) that portion delineated by drilling and defined by gas-oil and/or oil-water contacts, if any; and (b) the immediately adjoining portions not yet drilled, but which can be reasonably judged as economically productive on the basis of available geological and engineering data. In the absence of information on fluid contacts, the lowest known structural occurrence of hydrocarbons controls the lower proved limit of the reservoir.
(ii) Reserves which can be produced economically through application of improved recovery techniques (such as fluid injection) are included in the “proved” classification when successful testing by a pilot project, or the operation of an installed program in the reservoir, provides support for the engineering analysis on which the project or program was based.
(iii) Estimates of proved reserves do not include the following: (a) oil that may become available from known reservoirs but is classified separately as “indicated additional reserves”; (b) crude oil, natural gas, and natural gas liquids, the recovery of which is subject to reasonable doubt because of uncertainty as to geology, reservoir characteristics, or economic factors; (c) crude oil, natural gas, and natural gas liquids, that may occur in undrilled prospects; and (d) crude oil, natural gas, and natural gas liquids, that may be recovered from oil shales, coal, gilsonite and other such sources.
Title to Properties
We believe we have satisfactory title to all of our assets. Record title to essentially all our assets has undergone the appropriate filings in the jurisdictions in which such assets are located. Title to property may be subject to encumbrances. We believe that none of such encumbrances should materially detract from the value of
our properties or from our interest in these properties or should materially interfere with their use in the operation of our business.
ITEM 3.