ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
Facilities
Our office in Dallas consists of 11,847 square feet of leased office space. The operating partnership owns a field office in Hooker, Oklahoma.
Properties
We own two categories of properties: Royalty Properties and Net Profits Interests (“NPIs”).
Royalty Properties
We own Royalty Properties representing producing and nonproducing mineral, royalty, overriding royalty, net profits and leasehold interests in properties located in 574 counties and parishes in 25 states. Acreage amounts listed herein represent our best estimates based on information provided to us as a royalty owner. Due to the significant number of individual deeds, leases and similar instruments involved in the acquisition and development of the Royalty Properties by us or our predecessors, acreage amounts are subject to change as new information becomes available. In addition, as a royalty owner, our access to information concerning activity and operations on the Royalty Properties is limited. Most of our producing properties are subject to old leases and other contracts pursuant to which we are not entitled to well information. Some of our newer leases provide for access to technical data and other information. We may have limited access to public data in some areas through third party subscription services. Consequently, the exact number of wells producing from or drilling on the Royalty Properties is not determinable. The primary manner by which we will become aware of activity on the Royalty Properties is the receipt of division orders or other correspondence from operators or purchasers.
Acreage Summary
The following table sets forth, as of December 31, 2011, a summary of our gross and net acres, where applicable, of mineral, royalty, overriding royalty and leasehold interests, and a compilation of the number of counties and parishes and states in which these interests are located. The majority of our net mineral acres are unleased. Acreage amounts may not add across due to overlapping ownership among categories.
Our net interest in production from royalty, overriding royalty and leasehold interests is based on lease royalty and other third-party contractual terms, which vary from property to property. Consequently, net acreage ownership in these categories is not determinable. Our net interest in production from properties in which we own a royalty or overriding royalty interest may be affected by royalty terms negotiated by the mineral interest owners in such tracts and their lessees. Our interest in the majority of these properties is perpetual in nature. However, a minor portion of the properties are subject to terms and conditions pursuant to which a portion of our interest may terminate upon cessation of production.
The following table sets forth, as of December 31, 2011, the combined summary of total gross and net acres, where applicable, of mineral, royalty, overriding royalty and leasehold interests in each of the states in which these interests are located.
(1)
< 500 means acreage owned did not round up to 1,000.
Leasing Activity
The operating partnership and we received cash payments in the amount of $571,000 during 2011 attributable to lease bonus on 28 leases and 14 pooling elections in lands located in 26 counties and parishes in seven states. These leases reflected bonus payments ranging up to $2,500/acre and initial royalty terms ranging up to 26%.
The operating partnership and we received cash payments in the amount of $167,000 during the fourth quarter of 2011 attributable to lease bonus on eight leases and three pooling elections of our interests in lands located in nine counties and parishes in five states. These leases reflected bonus payments ranging up to $1,100/acre and initial royalty terms ranging up to 25%.
The following table sets forth a summary of leases and pooling elections consummated during 2009 through 2011.
Amounts reflected above may differ from our consolidated financial statements, which are presented on an accrual basis. Some activity may be in Net Profits Interests income. Average royalty and average bonus exclude amounts attributable to pooling elections. Payments received for gas storage, shut-in and delay rental payments, coal royalty, surface use agreements, litigation judgments and settlement proceeds are reflected in our consolidated financial statements in various categories including, but not limited to, other operating revenues and other income.
Net Profits Interests
We own net profits overriding royalty interests (referred to as the Net Profits Interests, or “NPIs”) in various properties owned by the operating partnership. We receive monthly payments equaling 96.97% of the net profits actually realized by the operating partnership from these properties in the preceding month. In the event costs exceed revenues on a cash basis in a given month for properties subject to a Net Profits Interest, no payment is made and any deficit is accumulated and carried over and reflected in the following month's calculation of net profit.
We own six NPIs. The Minerals NPI (one of the six) owns certain cost bearing interests that were either in existence at the time of our formation, or created subsequent to our formation but associated with nonproducing mineral, royalty and leasehold interest properties acquired upon our formation. The Minerals NPI recently achieved a cumulative net profit status as a result of its cumulative net revenue exceeding cumulative operating and actual and budgeted capital expenditures and development costs. Through November 30, 2011, cumulative net profit was approximately $1,347,000, resulting in NPI payments of approximately $1,306,000 to us during the fourth quarter of 2011. Our fourth quarter limited partner distribution included this payment. Our consolidated financial statements reflect activity attributable to the Minerals NPI and include a portion of 2011 cash receipts and disbursements and accrued revenues and costs not yet received or paid. Prior to the Minerals NPI achieving a cumulative payout status, activity attributable to the Minerals NPI was not reflected in our consolidated financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. Effective third quarter 2011, consolidated financial statements reflect activity attributable to the Minerals NPI, and will continue to do so regardless of its net profit status on a cumulative or reporting period basis. As of December 31, 2011 each of the six NPIs has cumulative revenue that exceeds cumulative costs, such excess constituting net proceeds on which NPI payments are determined. In the event an NPI has a deficit of cumulative revenue versus cumulative costs, the deficit will be borne solely by the operating partnership.
The following tables set forth cash receipts and disbursements, production volumes and reserves attributable to the Minerals NPI from inception through 2006 and the calendar years 2007 through 2011. The information designated as “Included in Financial Statements” and “Item 7 Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” include cash payments made to us in January 2012 and their related production volumes.
The revenue amounts, the production volumes, and the proved reserves presented include only properties producing revenue. The development cost amounts pertain to more properties than the properties producing revenue due to timing differences between operating partnership expenditures and oil and natural gas production and payments to the operating partnership.
(1)
Cash sales volumes above include 512,367 mcf of natural gas and 21,636 bbls of oil & condensate also included in our Results of Operations.
The indicated prices set forth above are calculated by dividing each year’s gross revenues for each product by the production volume of the corresponding product. Cash received for revenue includes minor amounts of non-product revenue. Such calculation does not necessarily reflect contractual terms for sales and may be affected by transportation costs, location differentials, quality and gravity adjustments and timing differences between production and cash receipts, including release of suspended funds, initial payments for accumulated sales, or prior period adjustments.
(3)
Based on 12-month unweighted arithmetic average of the first day-of-the-month price of oil and natural gas in 2009 forward, otherwise based on year-end pricing of oil and natural gas
Amounts in the above tables reflect the operating partnership’s ownership of the subject properties. Net Profits Interest payments to us, if any, equal 96.97% of the cumulative net profits actually received by the operating partnership attributable to the subject properties. The above production sales volumes, indicated prices, oil and natural gas reserves, and financial information attributable to the Minerals NPI may not be indicative of future results of the Minerals NPI.
Acreage Summary
The following tables set forth, as of December 31, 2011, information concerning properties owned by the operating partnership and subject to the NPIs, including the Minerals NPI properties. Acreage amounts listed under “Leasehold” reflect gross acres leased by the operating partnership and the working interest share (net acres) in those properties. Acreage amounts listed under “Mineral” reflect gross acres in which the operating partnership owns a mineral interest and the undivided mineral interest (net acres) in those properties. The operating partnership's interest in these properties may be unleased, leased by others or a combination thereof. Acreage amounts may not add across due to overlapping ownership among categories. In addition to amounts listed below, the operating partnership owns interests limited to certain wellbores located on lands in which we own mineral, royalty or leasehold interests. The acreage amounts associated with the wellbore interests are included in Royalty Properties Acreage Summary and not in the table below.
The following table reflects the states in which the acreage amounts listed above are located.
(1)
< 500 means acreage owned did not round up to 1,000.
The operating partnership owns working interests below the currently producing horizons in 47,360 gross/46,960 net acres in Texas County, Oklahoma. The operating partnership has from time to time farmed out its leasehold interests in portions of these lands, reserving an overriding royalty interest therein, and will consider additional exploration or development of these lands as circumstances warrant. The leasehold acreage in Arkansas listed above includes all of the acreage in the Fayetteville Shale properties in which the operating partnership participates as a working interest owner.
Costs Incurred
The following table sets forth information regarding 100% of the costs incurred on a cash basis by the operating partnership during the periods indicated in connection with the properties underlying the NPIs.
(1)
The years ended December 31, 2009, 2010 and 2011 include $4,348,000, $3,249,000 and $4,362,000, respectively, attributable to NPIs before reaching pay status.
Productive Well Summary
The following table sets forth, as of December 31, 2011, the combined number of producing wells on the properties subject to the NPIs, including the Minerals NPI. Gross wells refer to wells in which a working interest is owned. Net wells are determined by multiplying gross wells by the working interest in those wells.
(1)
Multiple well units operated by someone other than the operating partnership and in which we own NPIs are included as one gross well.
Drilling Activity
During 2011, we received division orders or first payments for 356 new wells completed on our Royalty Properties in 9 states, and 66 new wells completed on our NPI Properties in 4 states. Included in these totals are 14 wells in one state in which we own both a royalty interest and a net profits interest. Wells with such overlapping interests are counted in both categories.
Additional information concerning selected recent activity is summarized below:
Fayetteville Shale Trend of Northern Arkansas - We own varying undivided perpetual mineral interests totaling 23,336/11,464 gross/net acres located in Cleburne, Conway, Faulkner, Franklin, Johnson, Pope, Van Buren, and White counties, Arkansas in an area commonly referred to as the “Fayetteville Shale” trend of the Arkoma Basin. Three hundred fifty-nine wells were permitted on the lands as of December 31, 2011, 218 of which the operating partnership owns an interest. In total, 343 wells were spud, 315 were completed as producers, 21 were in various stages of drilling or completion operations or waiting on a pipeline, and seven wells were abandoned. Leases covering approximately 10,722/5,310 gross/net acres expired on June 27, 2011. We are currently determining the best course of action with regards to leasing or participating with the unleased acreage. Approximately 8,933/4,448 gross/net acres are held by production.
Set forth below is a summary of Fayetteville Shale activity through December 31, 2011 for wells in which we have a royalty or Net Profits Interest. This includes wells subject to the Minerals NPI and wells for which we may not yet have received division orders or first payment.
(1)
Excludes permits that expire undrilled
(2)
Completion date is defined as the day the well commences production.
(3)
Wells in Pay Status means wells for which revenue was initially received during the indicated period
Our estimated proved reserves as of December 31, 2011, include reserves attributable to our royalty interest in 267 wells totaling 5.82 bcf. Proved reserves attributable to working interests owned by the operating partnership totaled 5.46 bcf in 178 wells. These estimates only include wells for which test rates have been obtained.
Net cash receipts for the Royalty Properties attributable to interests in these lands totaled $3,933,000 in 2011 from 228 wells. Net cash receipts for the Minerals NPI properties attributable to interests in these lands totaled $3,638,000 in 2011 from 146 wells. Fourth quarter net cash receipts for the Royalty Properties and the Minerals NPI properties totaled $994,000 from 228 wells and $1,389,000 from 144 wells, respectively.
Horizontal Bakken, Williston Basin - We own varying undivided perpetual mineral interests totaling 70,390/8,905 gross/net acres located in Burke, Divide, Dunn, McKenzie, Mountrail and Williams Counties, North Dakota. Operators active in this area include Brigham Oil & Gas, Continental Resources, EOG Resources, Hess Corporation, and Whiting Oil & Gas. One hundred eighty four wells were permitted on these lands as of December 31, 2011, with 136 completed as producers. In most cases we elected to become a non-consenting mineral owner-who is not obligated to pay well costs. According to North Dakota law, non-consenting mineral owners receive the average royalty rate from the date of first production and back-in for their full working interest after the operator has recovered 150% of drilling and completion costs. Once 150% payout occurs, the operating partnership will then own the working interest; subject to the Minerals NPI burden. Non-consenting mineral owners are not entitled to well data other than public information available from the North Dakota Industrial Commission. As of December 31, 2011, 11 of these wells had achieved 150% payout.
Set forth below is a summary of Horizontal Bakken activity through December 31, 2011 for wells in which we own a royalty or Net Profits Interest. This includes wells subject to the Minerals NPI.
(1) Wells reaching 150% Payout means wells for which the 150% penalty has been recovered during the indicated period.
Appalachian Basin - We own varying undivided perpetual mineral interests in approximately 31,000/24,000 gross/net acres in 19 counties in southern New York and northern Pennsylvania. Approximately 75% of those net acres are located in eastern Allegany and western Steuben Counties, New York-an area that some industry press reports suggest may be prospective for gas production from unconventional reservoirs, including the Marcellus Shale. The New York State Department of Environmental Conservation has completed its regulatory review of high-volume hydraulic fracturing practices; however, development of these natural gas resources will be limited until remaining regulatory issues are resolved. We continue to monitor industry activity and encourage dialogue with industry participants to determine the proper course of action regarding our interests in this area.
Barnett Shale - We own varying undivided mineral and overriding royalty interests in approximately 1,820 acres located in Tarrant County, Texas in an area commonly referred to as the Core Area of the Barnett Shale Trend. As of December 31, 2011, 43 wells were drilled, of which 42 wells were completed for production and one was drilled but not yet completed or connected to a pipeline. No new permits to drill additional wells on the properties have been issued by regulatory agencies. Nine wells were brought on production during 2011, with an average reported test rate of 3.4 mmcfd. We own interests ranging from 17.1% to 20.0% NRI in these wells.
Oil and Natural Gas Reserves
The following table reflects the Partnership's proved developed and total proved reserves at December 31, 2011. The reserves are based on the reports of two independent petroleum engineering consulting firms: Calhoun, Blair & Associates and LaRoche Petroleum Consultants, Ltd. As described above, the Partnership does not have information that would be available to a company with oil and natural gas operations because detailed information is not generally available to owners of royalty interests. The Partnership’s Vice President of Operations (“VP”) gathers production information and provides such information to our two independent engineering consulting firms who extrapolate from such information estimates of the reserves attributable to the Royalty Properties and NPIs based on their expertise in the oil and natural gas fields where the Royalty Properties and NPIs are situated, as well as publicly available information. Ensuring compliance with generally accepted petroleum engineering and evaluation methods and procedures is the responsibility of the VP. Our VP has a bachelor’s degree in Petroleum Engineering from the University of Alberta, and has worked in the upstream oil and natural gas business in various capacities since 1996. The VP reports directly to the Chief Executive Officer (“CEO”). Our CEO ensures compliance with SEC guidance. Our CEO received his Bachelor of Science degree in Petroleum Engineering from Texas A&M University in 1984, and has been a Registered Professional Engineer in Texas since 1988. Calhoun Blair & Associates is registered with the Engineering Board of the State of Texas, and has been engaged in the business of oil and natural gas property evaluation since 1998. LaRoche Petroleum Consultants, Ltd. is registered with the Engineering Board of the State of Texas. The LaRoche firm has been engaged in the business of oil and natural gas property evaluation since its formation in 1979. Other than our filings with the SEC, we have not filed the estimated proved reserves with, or included them in any reports to, any federal agency. Copies of the reports prepared by Calhoun, Blair & Associates and LaRoche Petroleum Consultants, Ltd. are attached hereto as Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2.
(1)
Reserves reflect 96.97% of the corresponding amounts assigned to the operating partnership’s interests in the properties underlying the Net Profits Interests.
Proved oil and natural gas reserves means those quantities of oil and natural gas, which, by analysis of geoscience and engineering data, can be estimated with reasonable certainty to be economically producible-from a given date forward, from known reservoirs, and under existing economic conditions, operating methods, and governmental regulations-prior to the time at which contracts providing the right to operate expire, unless evidence indicates that renewal is reasonably certain, regardless of whether deterministic or probabilistic methods are used for the estimation. The project to extract the hydrocarbons must have commenced or the operator must be reasonably certain that it will commence the project within a reasonable time. Please see “Item 7 - Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Results of Operations” for average sales prices.
The Hugoton Field reflected in the Net Profits Interests above is the only significant field, defined as more than 15% of total proved developed reserves. Hugoton Field production (not sales) for the last three years is listed below:
Title to Properties
We believe we have satisfactory title to all of our assets. Record title to essentially all of our assets has undergone the appropriate filings in the jurisdictions in which such assets are located. Title to property may be subject to encumbrances. We believe that none of such encumbrances should materially detract from the value of our properties or from our interest in these properties or should materially interfere with their use in the operation of our business.
ITEM 3.