ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
Facilities
Our office in Dallas consists of 11,847 square feet of leased office space. The operating partnership owns a field office in Hooker, Oklahoma and leases part of an office in Amarillo, Texas.
Properties
We own two categories of properties, the Net Profits Interests and the Royalty Properties.
Royalty Properties
We own Royalty Properties representing producing and nonproducing mineral, royalty, overriding royalty, net profits and leasehold interests in properties located in 573 counties and parishes in 25 states. Acreage amounts listed herein represent our best estimates based on information provided to us as a royalty owner. Due to the significant number of individual deeds, leases and similar instruments involved in the acquisition and development of the Royalty Properties by us or our predecessors, acreage amounts are subject to change as new information becomes available. In addition, as a royalty owner, our access to information concerning activity and operations on the Royalty Properties is limited. Most of our producing properties are subject to old leases and other contracts pursuant to which we are not entitled to well information. Some of our newer leases provide for access to technical data and other information. We may have limited access to public data in some areas through third party subscription services. Consequently, the exact number of wells producing from, or drilling on the Royalty Properties is not determinable. The primary manner by which we will become aware of activity on the Royalty Properties is the receipt of division orders or other correspondence from operators or purchasers.
Acreage Summary
The following table sets forth as of December 31, 2006 a summary of our gross and net, where applicable, acres of mineral, royalty, overriding royalty and leasehold interests, and a compilation of the number of counties and parishes and states in which these interests are located. The majority of our net mineral acres are unleased. Acreage amounts may not add across due to overlapping ownership among categories.
Our net interest in production from royalty, overriding royalty and leasehold interests is based on lease royalty and other third party contractual terms which vary from property to property. Consequently, net acreage ownership in these categories is not determinable. Our net interest in production from properties in which we own a royalty or overriding royalty interest may be affected by royalty terms negotiated by the mineral interest owners in such tracts and their lessees. Our interest in the majority of these properties is perpetual in nature. However, a minor portion of the properties are subject to terms and conditions pursuant to which a portion of our interest may terminate upon cessation of production.
Index to Financial Statements The following table sets forth as of December 31, 2006 the combined summary of total gross and net (where applicable) acres of mineral, royalty, overriding royalty and leasehold interests in each of the states in which these interests are located.
Leasing Activity
We received cash payments in the amount of $7,377,000 during 2006 attributable to lease bonus on 63 leases and 13 pooling elections in lands located in 33 counties and parishes in seven states. These leases reflected bonus payments ranging up to $675/acre and initial royalty terms ranging up to 30%. Many of these leases contain additional overriding royalty interests, and provisions for optional working interest participation in subsequent wells, back-in working interests after payout or escalating royalty terms.
We received cash payments in the amount of $365,000 during the fourth quarter of 2006 attributable to lease bonus on 10 leases and five pooling elections of our interests in lands located in 10 counties and parishes in four states. These leases reflected bonus payments ranging up to $400/acre and initial royalty terms ranging up to 30%.
The following table sets forth a summary of leases and pooling elections consummated during 2004 through 2006.
Seven leases were granted for no bonus consideration in 2006, which reflected royalty terms ranging from 25% to 30%. Average bonus and royalty terms reflected above include these seven leases. Thirteen leases were granted in 2006 which included (in addition to royalty or bonus) an overriding royalty interest, back-in working interest or optional working interest participation. Average royalty terms reflected above do not reflect these additional interests. Amounts reflected above may differ from the financial statements which are presented on an accrual basis. Average Royalty and Average Bonus exclude amounts attributable to pooling elections. Payments received for gas storage, shut-in and delay rental payments, coal royalty, surface use agreements, litigation
Index to Financial Statements
judgments and settlement proceeds are reflected in our financial statements in various categories including, but not limited to, other operating revenues and other income.
Drilling Activity
We received division orders for, or otherwise identified 377 new wells completed on our Royalty Properties in 12 states during 2006. Selected new wells and the net revenue interest (NRI) owned therein by us are summarized in the following table:
Additional information concerning selected recent activity is summarized below:
Jeffress (Vicksburg S) Field, Hidalgo County, Texas-We own varying undivided mineral interests in several thousand acres in the greater Jeffress Field area of western Hidalgo County, Texas. Jeffress and associated nearby fields produce gas and condensate from tight Vicksburg sandstone reservoirs at depths ranging from 8,000 feet to 14,000 feet. El Paso Production and XTO Energy are the most active operators in this area. We leased our interest in approximately 417 acres to Dan A. Hughes Company (“Hughes”) in October 2005 for a 25% royalty. In addition, the operating partnership was granted a 5% overriding royalty interest which was convertible to a 25% working interest at payout of the first well. The operating partnership has the option, but not the obligation, to participate for a 25% working interest in all future wells drilled on the 417 acre tract or within a surrounding area comprising approximately 1,000 acres. Please refer to the discussion under “Net Profits Interests-Drilling Activity” for more details concerning the participation option.
Hughes drilled the Coates-Dorchester #1 well in November 2005 to a permitted total depth of 11,500 feet. The well was tested to sales on January 26, 2006 at rates of 3,263 mcfd and 96 bbls per day. The Coates-Dorchester #2 was drilled in September 2006 to a total depth of 8,900 feet. The well was completed in the Vicksburg formation on November 3, 2006 with test rates of 1,424 mcf and 38 bbls per day. Hughes permitted a third well, the Coates-Dorchester #3, in January 2007 to a total depth of 10,500 feet. We own a 6.25% net revenue interest in these three wells.
T-Patch (Reklaw OSO) Field, Jim Hogg and Starr Counties, Texas-We own varying undivided mineral interests totaling 6,524/2,128 gross/net acres in multiple tracts in Jim Hogg and Starr Counties, Texas and which we leased to EOG Resources, Inc. (“EOG”) in 2004 and 2006. EOG completed eight wells on these lands in 2004 and 2005. In 2006, EOG drilled and completed two additional wells on these lands. The Guerra Mineral Trust No. 1 well was drilled in January 2006 to a permitted total depth of 8,100 feet and was tested to sales at rates of 6,531 mcf and 126 bbls per day on March 21, 2006. The Guerra Mineral Trust No. 2 well was drilled in March 2006 to a total depth of 8,000 feet and was tested to sales at rates of 10,778 mcf and 106 bbls per day on March 27, 2006. By December 2006 production from both wells had declined to an average rate of
Index to Financial Statements
approximately 200 mcf. We own a 10.2% net revenue interest in these two wells. EOG permitted an eleventh well, the Southwest Texas Corp. #8, in February 2007 to a total depth of 10,200 feet.
Fayetteville Shale Trend of Northern Arkansas-We own varying undivided perpetual mineral interests totaling 23,336/11,464 gross/net acres located in Cleburne, Conway, Faulkner, Franklin, Johnson, Pope, Van Buren, and White counties, Arkansas in an area commonly referred to as the “Fayetteville Shale” trend of the Arkoma Basin. As of December 31, 2005, approximately 20,307/10,183 gross/net acres of these lands were unleased. Southwestern Energy and Chesapeake Energy are the most active operators in this trend. We received numerous lease offers for our interests during 2005 and early 2006, which offers we routinely declined in order to gather additional information about the trend.
On January 30, 2006, we circulated a Request For Proposals to industry participants, soliciting expressions of interest concerning these lands. On March 30, 2006, we entered into an agreement to lease our interest in certain lands in the eight counties named above for which we received a $616,000 non-refundable payment. This amount was included in the first quarter distribution to our unitholders. On June 29, 2006, we leased our average 8.6% mineral interest in 179 sections in these eight counties and received additional payments totaling $5,535,000. This amount was included in the second quarter distribution to our unitholders. The leases reflect 25% royalty and five year primary terms. The sum of the non-refundable payment received in March and the payments received upon consummation of the leases totaled $6,151,000 and represents lease bonus payments of approximately $625 per acre.
Assuming the leased lands are pooled into 640 acre units, we will own an average 2.1% net royalty interest in each well drilled in these units. Actual net royalty interests will vary widely from this average interest, based on our actual ownership in each unit.
Eleven wells have been permitted on the leased lands as of February 23, 2007. Information concerning these wells is set forth below:
(1)
NRI means Net Revenue Interest
Our estimated proved reserves as of December 31, 2006 reflect our net royalty interests in four wells with average estimated gross ultimate reserves of 0.9 BCF per well.
In addition, the operating partnership has the option, but not the obligation, to participate for an average 3.5% working interest in 111 of the 179 sections. Please refer to the discussion under “Net Profits Interests-Drilling Activity” for additional information concerning the participation option.
Haley Field Area, Loving and Winkler Counties, Texas-We own varying undivided mineral and royalty interests in over 90 sections located in north central Loving and western Winkler counties, Texas and
Index to Financial Statements
southeastern Lea County, New Mexico in the vicinity of the Haley Field. Operators active in this area include Anadarko, Browning Oil, Chesapeake Energy and Forest Oil. We leased our interests in 2004 and 2005 in 39 sections for a 25% royalty and bonuses ranging up to $700/acre. In addition, the operating partnership has the option, but not the obligation, to participate for a 10% working interest in wells drilled in 11 of these sections, which option is exercisable after the first well is drilled in each of these sections and in all subsequent wells. Each of these interests is proportionately reduced to our mineral interest in each tract. The optional working interest is part of the 2003-2006 NPI.
As of December 31, 2006, no well permits have been identified by us on these lands.
Net Profits Interests
We own net profits overriding royalty interests (referred to as the Net Profits Interests) in various properties owned by the operating partnership. We receive monthly payments equaling 96.97% of the net profits actually realized by the operating partnership from these properties in the preceding month. In the event costs exceed revenues on a cash basis in a given month for properties subject to a Net Profits Interest, no payment is made and any deficit is accumulated and carried over and reflected in the following month’s calculation of net profit.
We own four separate Net Profits Interests, three of which were created in connection with the combination in 2003. Each of these three Net Profits Interests have been in a continuous profit status in that revenues have exceeded costs and payments have been made by the operating partnership to us each quarter.
In accordance with our partnership agreement we have the continuing right and obligation to create additional Net Profits Interests by transferring properties to the operating partnership subject to the reservation of a Net Profits Interest identical to the Net Profit Interests created at the time of our combination in 2003. The purpose of such Net Profits Interests is to avoid the Partnership’s participation as a working interest or other cost-bearing owner that could result in unrelated business taxable income. Net profits interest payments are not considered unrelated business taxable income for tax purposes. One such Net Profits Interest was created for each of calendar years 2003 through 2006 by transferring various properties to the operating partnership subject to a Net Profit Interest. These interests were subsequently combined and we currently refer to them as the 2003-2006 NPI which is our fourth separate Net Profits Interest. As of December 31, 2006, cumulative operating and development costs presented in the following table, which include amounts equivalent to an interest charge, exceeded cumulative revenues of the 2003-2006 NPI, resulting in a cumulative deficit. All cumulative deficits (which represent cumulative excess of operating and development costs over revenue received) are borne 100% by our General Partner until the 2003-2006 NPI recovers the deficit amount. Once in profit status, we will receive the Net Profits Interest payment attributable to these properties. Our financial statements do not reflect activity attributable to properties subject to Net Profits Interests that are in a deficit status. Consequently, net profits interest payments, production sales volumes and prices, and oil and gas reserves set forth in other portions of this annual report do not reflect amounts attributable to the 2003-2006 NPI.
The following tables set forth cash receipts and disbursements, production volumes and reserves attributable to the 2003-2006 Net Profits Interest for the calendar years 2003 through 2006.
Index to Financial Statements The revenue amounts, the production volumes, and the proved reserves presented include only properties producing revenue. The development costs amounts pertain to more properties than the properties producing revenue due to timing differences between operating partnership expenditures and oil and gas production and payments to the operating partnership.
The indicated prices set forth above are calculated by dividing each year’s gross revenues for each product by the production volume of the corresponding product. Cash received for revenue includes minor amounts of non-product revenue. Such calculation does not necessarily reflect contractual terms for sales and may be affected by transportation costs, location differentials, quality and gravity adjustments and timing differences between production and cash receipts, including release of suspended funds, initial payments for accumulated sales, or prior period adjustments.
Amounts in the above tables reflect the operating partnership’s ownership of the subject properties. Net Profits Interest payments to us, if any, will equal 96.97% of the cumulative net profits actually received by the operating partnership attributable to the subject properties. The above production sales volumes, indicated prices, oil and gas reserves, and financial information attributable to the 2003-2006 NPI may not be indicative of future results of the 2003-2006 NPI and may not indicate when the deficit status may end and when Net Profits Interests payment may begin from the 2003-2006 NPI.
The 2003-2006 NPI also includes numerous opportunities for the operating partnership to participate as a working interest owner in drilling activity on lands in which we own a mineral or royalty interest that is not subject to a net profits interest. Most of these opportunities are evidenced by a contractual option, but not the obligation, to participate in activity located in defined lands and leases. The operating partnership’s decision to exercise these options and participate as a working interest owner is made on a well-by-well basis and only in the event a third party proposes to drill a well subject to the contractual option. We are therefore unable to project when wells may be drilled, whether the operating partnership may elect to participate in such drilling or the magnitude of the corresponding investment, either individually or in the aggregate, with respect to the 2003-2006 NPI. In the event the operating partnership does elect to participate pursuant to these options, the 2003-2006 NPI deficit is likely to increase. Regardless of the operating partnership’s future participation elections, we believe net profits payments, if any, made upon the 2003-2006 NPI’s first reaching profit status will be minimal as development of these properties and consequently the operating partnership’s payment of development expenditures associated therewith, is likely to continue for at least five years. See the discussion under “Royalty Properties-Drilling Activity” above for additional information on some of these working interest participation options.
Index to Financial Statements Acreage Summary
The following tables set forth as of December 31, 2006 information concerning properties owned by the operating partnership and subject to the Net Profits Interests, including the 2003-2006 NPI properties. Acreage amounts listed under Leasehold reflect gross acres leased by the operating partnership and the working interest share (net acres) in those properties. Acreage amounts listed under Mineral reflect gross acres in which the operating partnership owns a mineral interest and the undivided mineral interest (net acres) in those properties. The operating partnership’s interest in these properties may be unleased, leased by others or a combination thereof. Acreage amounts may not add across due to overlapping ownership among categories.
The following table reflects the states in which the acreage amounts listed above are located.
The operating partnership owns working interests below the currently producing horizons in 47,360 gross/ 46,960 net acres in Texas County, Oklahoma. The operating partnership has from time to time farmed out its leasehold interests in portions of these lands, reserving an overriding royalty interest therein, and will consider additional exploration or development of these lands as circumstances warrant.
Drilling Activity
Thirty five new wells were completed on our Net Profits Interests located in seven states during 2006, and an additional six wells were in various stages of drilling or completion operations at year-end. Selected new wells drilled in 2006 and the working interest and net revenue interest (WI and NRI) owned therein by the operating partnership are summarized in the following table:
Index to Financial Statements Jeffress (Vicksburg S) Field, Hidalgo County, Texas-In addition to the basic lease terms of the transaction with Dan A. Hughes Company (“Hughes”) described under “Royalty Properties-Drilling Activity” the operating partnership was granted a five percent overriding royalty interest in the first well which was convertible to a 25% working interest at payout. The operating partnership has the option, but not the obligation to participate for a 25% working interest in all future wells drilled on the 417 acre tract or within a surrounding area comprised of approximately 1,000 acres. The Coates-Dorchester #1 reached payout in July 2006, at which time we elected to convert our overriding royalty interest to a working interest. Pursuant to the agreement we elected to participate with a working interest in the Coates-Dorchester #2 well and the Coates-Dorchester #3 well which was permitted in January 2007. The operating partnership owns a 4.69% net revenue interest in the aforementioned wells.
Fayetteville Shale Trend of Northern Arkansas-In addition to the basic lease terms of the Fayetteville Shale transaction described under “Royalty Properties-Drilling Activity”, the operating partnership has the option, but not the obligation, to participate for an average 3.5% net working interest in wells drilled on 111 of the 179 sections covered by the leasing agreements and the unleased mineral interest in the Gravel Hill Field.
To date, 14 wells have been permitted on the lands described above. Of these wells, nine have been spud and five have been successfully completed as producers. Set forth below is a summary of the permitted wells:
(1)
WI and NRI mean working interest and net revenue interest, respectively.
Costs Incurred
The following table sets forth information regarding 100% of the costs incurred on a cash basis by the operating partnership during the periods indicated in connection with the properties underlying the Net Profits Interests.
(1)
The years ended December 31, 2004, 2005 and 2006 include $1,218,000, $1,086,000 and $1,691,000 respectively, attributable to the 2003-2006 NPI.
Index to Financial Statements Productive Well Summary
The following table sets forth as of December 31, 2006 the combined number of producing wells on the properties subject to the Net Profits Interests, including the 2003-2006 NPI. Gross wells refer to wells in which a working interest is owned. Net wells are determined by multiplying gross wells by the working interest in those wells.
(1)
Multiple well units operated by someone other than the operating partnership and in which we own Net Profits Interests are included as one gross well.
Oil and Natural Gas Reserves
The following table reflects the Partnership’s proved developed and total proved reserves, future net revenues and Standardized Measure at December 31, 2004, 2005 and 2006. The reserves and future net revenues are based on the reports of the independent petroleum engineering consulting firms of Calhoun, Blair & Associates as to the Net Profits Interests and Huddleston & Co., Inc. as to the Royalty Properties. Other than those filed with the SEC, our estimated proved reserves have not been filed with or included in any reports to any federal agency.
(1)
Reserves, revenues and present values reflect 96.97% of the corresponding amounts assigned to the operating partnership’s interests in the properties underlying the Net Profits Interests.
(2)
Total proved reserves include 36 mmcf, 218 mmcf, and 583 mmcf of proved undeveloped gas reserves attributable to the Royalty Properties at December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively.
(3)
Total proved reserves include 0 mbbls, 2 mbbls, and 2 mbbls of proved undeveloped oil reserves attributable to the Royalty Properties at December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 respectively.
(4)
We do not reflect a federal income tax provision since our partners include the income of our Partnership in their respective federal income tax returns.
Proved oil and gas reserves means the estimated quantities of crude oil, natural gas, and natural gas liquids which geological and engineering data demonstrate with reasonable certainty to be recoverable in future years from known reservoirs under existing economic and operating conditions, i.e., prices and costs as of the date the estimate is made. Prices include consideration of changes in existing prices provided only by contractual arrangements, but not on escalations based upon future conditions.
(i) Reservoirs are considered proved if economic producibility is supported by either actual production or conclusive formation test. The area of a reservoir considered proved includes (a) that portion delineated by drilling and defined by gas-oil and/or oil-water contacts, if any; and (b) the immediately adjoining portions not yet drilled, but which can be reasonably judged as economically productive on the basis of available geological and engineering data. In the absence of information on fluid contacts, the lowest known structural occurrence of hydrocarbons controls the lower proved limit of the reservoir.
Index to Financial Statements (ii) Reserves which can be produced economically through application of improved recovery techniques (such as fluid injection) are included in the “proved” classification when successful testing by a pilot project, or the operation of an installed program in the reservoir, provides support for the engineering analysis on which the project or program was based.
(iii) Estimates of proved reserves do not include the following: (a) oil that may become available from known reservoirs but is classified separately as “indicated additional reserves”; (b) crude oil, natural gas, and natural gas liquids, the recovery of which is subject to reasonable doubt because of uncertainty as to geology, reservoir characteristics, or economic factors; (c) crude oil, natural gas, and natural gas liquids, that may occur in undrilled prospects; and (d) crude oil, natural gas, and natural gas liquids, that may be recovered from oil shales, coal, gilsonite and other such sources.
Title to Properties
We believe we have satisfactory title to all of our assets. Record title to essentially all our assets has undergone the appropriate filings in the jurisdictions in which such assets are located. Title to property may be subject to encumbrances. We believe that none of such encumbrances should materially detract from the value of our properties or from our interest in these properties or should materially interfere with their use in the operation of our business.
ITEM 3.