ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
Larne Basin
On January 19, 2016, Petro River UK Limited, ("Petro UK"), a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, entered into a Farmout Agreement to acquire a 9% interest in Petroleum License PL 1/10 and P2123 (the “Larne Licenses”) located in the Larne Basin in Northern Ireland (the "Larne Transaction"). The two Larne Licenses, one onshore and one offshore, together encompass approximately 130,000 acres covering the large majority of the prospective Larne Basin. The other parties to the Farmout Agreement are Southwestern Resources Ltd, a wholly owned subsidiary of Horizon Energy, which acquired a 16% interest, and Brigantes Energy Limited, which retained a 10% interest. Third parties own the remaining 65% interest.
Under the terms of the Farmout Agreement, Petro UK deposited approximately $735,000 into an escrow agreement ("Escrow Agreement"), which amount represented Petro UK's obligation to fund the total projected cost to drill the first well under the terms of the Farmout Agreement. The total deposited amount to fund the cost to drill the first well was approximately $6,159,452, based on an exchange rate of one British Pound for 1.44 U.S. Dollars. Petro UK was and continues to be responsible for its pro-rata costs of additional wells drilled under the Farmout Agreement.
Drilling of the first well was completed in June 2016. The primary objectives of the well were to (i) confirm the existence and maturity of the carboniferous source rock and (ii) test potential hydrocarbon-bearing objective zones. Unexpectedly, the overlying Permian section thickened considerably and at 2,000 meters, and several participants owning 55% of the working interest in the well (including Horizon Energy) expressed interest in deepening the well an additional 600 meters. However, participants representing the other 45% of the interest were unwilling to fund their share of the additional costs, and without unanimity determined that continued drilling was impractical. The well has been plugged and the drilling rig has been demobilized from the location. The drilling detected background gas shows in the drilling fluid, and samples were sent to Applied Petroleum Technology, (“APT”) an internationally recognized independent geochemical laboratory in Oslo, Norway. APT determined that the gas originated from a carboniferous source, providing evidence of nearby source rock and an active petroleum system. The samples were strikingly similar to a gas sample from a producing gas field in in Lancashire, England, just across the North Channel.
Historically, large basinal discoveries are found and developed only after thorough analysis of technical data derived from both seismic acquisition and drilling of wells. Management believes that Larne Basin continues to be a very attractive exploration opportunity based on technical merit, modest exploration costs, low political risk and excellent fiscal terms. The Company is continuing the exploration program by relocating to offshore targets and reprocessing seismic data.
Management believes that the Larne Basin continues to be very attractive exploration opportunity based on technical merit, modest exploration costs, low political risk and excellent fiscal terms. The Company intends to conduct further exploration and appraisal by reprocessing existing seismic data, and if merited, additional new seismic “shoots,” re-locating drill targets to more favorable locations offshore, and evaluating farmout opportunities.
Kern County
On March 4, 2016, the Company executed an Asset Purchase and Sale and Exploration Agreement (the "Agreement") to acquire a 13.75% working interest in certain oil and gas leases in 5,000 gross acres located in southern Kern County, California (the "Project"). Horizon Energy also purchased a 27.5% working interest in the Project.
Under the terms of the Agreement, the Company paid $108,333 to the sellers on the closing date, and is obligated to pay certain other costs and expenses after the Closing Date related to existing and new leases as more particularly set forth in the Agreement. In addition, the sellers are entitled to an overriding royalty interest in certain existing and new leases acquired after the Closing Date, and the Company is required to make certain other payments, each in amounts set forth in the Agreement.
On July 18, 2017, the Company announced a new oil field discovery in its Sunset Boulevard prospect in Kern County, California upon successfully drilling the Cattani-Rennie 47X-15 exploration well (“CR 47X”). The CR 47X was drilled to a depth of approximately 8,500 feet and confirmed at least two commercially successful pay zones. The discovery is currently being evaluated but initial results indicate significant reserve potential. Following completion and production tests, the Company will announce development plans. Several additional prospect wells are now being planned to be drilled in Kern County.
Oklahoma
On May 30, 2014, the Company, entered into a Subscription Agreement, pursuant to which the Company purchased a 50% interest in Bandolier. Bandolier’s oil and gas assets are located in in Osage County, Oklahoma and comprise a significant contiguous oil and gas acreage position in Northeastern Oklahoma, approximately 106,000 acres, with substantial original oil in place, stacked reservoirs, as well as exploratory and development opportunities that can be accessed through both horizontal and vertical drilling. Significant infrastructure is already in place including 32 square miles of 3-D seismic, 3 phase power, a dedicated sub-station as well as multiple oil producing horizontal wells. As a result of this transaction, the Company capitalized $2,460,632 in proved developed oil and gas assets and $5,921,641 in proven undeveloped oil and gas assets. During the year ended April 30, 2016, Bandolier purchased additional oil and gas assets totaling $102,864. Management performed a ceiling test as of April 30, 2016, and recognized an impairment of $5,951,622 on the Oklahoma property.
On May 8, 2017, the Company announced a new oil field discovery in its 106,500-acre concession in Osage County, Oklahoma upon successfully drilling the Chat 2-11 exploration well. The Chat 2-11 was drilled to a depth of 2,800 feet into the Mississippian Chat. Initial results indicated up to 20 feet of oil productive formation. Following flow and fracking tests, the Company plans to confirm IP rates.
On May 30, 2017, the Company announced a second new oil field discovery in its 106,500-acre concession in Osage County, Oklahoma upon successfully drilling the Red Fork 1-3 exploration well. The Red Fork 1-3 was drilled to a depth of 2,800 feet into the Mississippian Chat. Initial results indicated up to 30 feet of oil productive formation. Following flow and fracking tests, the Company plans to confirm IP rates. These structures were identified utilizing 3D seismic technology, indicating a potential of up to 2.5 million barrels of oil.
The Company has plans to drill an additional six wells on its Osage County, Oklahoma concessions during 2017.
The Osage County drilling program is the result of a Joint Exploration and Development Agreement (the “Exploration Agreement”), dated August 19, 2016, between Spyglass Energy Group, LLC (“Spyglass”), a wholly owned subsidiary of Bandolier Energy, LLC (“Bandolier”), Phoenix 2016, LLC (“Phoenix”) and Mackey Consulting & Leasing, LLC (“Mackey”). Pursuant to the Exploration Agreement, Phoenix and Mackey operates and provides certain services, including obtaining permits and providing technical services, at cost, in connection with a Phase I Development Program as agreed to by the parties (the “Phase I Program”). Phoenix and Mackey shall earn a 25% working interest on all wells drilled in the Phase I Program. Following success and completion of the Phase I Program, Phoenix and Mackey shall earn a 25% working interest in the Osage County, Oklahoma Concession held by Spyglass. Under the Exploration Agreement, Bandolier has agreed commit up to $2.1 million towards costs of the Phase I Program, at their sole discretion.
In connection with the $2.0 million secured note financing consummated on June 13, 2017, the Company issued an overriding royalty interest equal to 2% in all production from the Company’s interest in the Company’s concessions located in Osage County, Oklahoma.
Horizon Energy
Horizon Acquisition. On May 3, 2016 (the “Closing Date”), the Company consummated the acquisition of Horizon Investments. As a result of the acquisition, the Company acquired: (i) a 20% membership interest in Horizon Energy; (ii) three promissory notes issued by the Company to Horizon Investments in the principal amount of $1.6 million (the “Horizon Notes”); (iii) approximately $690,000 (the “Closing Proceeds”); and (iv) certain bank, investment and other accounts maintained by Horizon Investments, in an amount which, together with the amount issued under the Horizon Notes and the Closing Proceeds, total approximately $5.0 million (collectively, the “Purchased Assets”) (the “Horizon Acquisition”). The Horizon Acquisition was completed in accordance with the term and conditions of the Conditional Purchase Agreement first entered into by the Company and Horizon Investments on December 1, 2015 (the “Purchase Agreement”). Also on the Closing Date, the Company and Horizon Investments entered into an amended and restated Purchase Agreement, pursuant to which the Company agreed to provide for additional advances by Horizon Investments to the Company.
As consideration for the Horizon Acquisition, and in accordance with the Purchase Agreement, as amended, the Company issued 11,564,249 shares of its Common Stock on the Closing Date, which amount included 1,395,916 additional shares of Common Stock in consideration for the additional cash, receivables and other assets reflected on Horizon Investment's balance sheet on the Closing Date.
Horizon Energy is an oil and gas exploration and development company owned and managed by former senior oil and gas executives with access to a broad network of industry insiders. It has a portfolio of domestic and international assets, including two assets located in the United Kingdom, adjacent to the giant Wytch Farm oil field, the largest onshore oil field in Western Europe. Other projects include the proposed redevelopment of a large oil field in Kern County, California and the development of an additional recent discovery in Kern County. Each of the assets in the Horizon Energy portfolio is characterized by low initial capital expenditure requirements and strong risk reward characteristics.
Operational and Project Review
The following table summarizes the costs incurred in oil and gas property acquisition, exploration, and development activities for the Company for the years ended April 30, 2017 and 2016:
(1) Other property consists primarily of four used steam generators and related equipment that will be assigned to future projects. As of April 30, 2017 and 2016, management concluded that impairment was not necessary as all other assets were carried at salvage value.
The above table excludes Larne Basin and Kern County assets of $761,444 which were not in operations as of April 30, 2017.
For the year ended April 30, 2017, the Company performed a ceiling test and recognized an impairment charge of $20,942 on the Oklahoma assets. For the year ended April 30, 2016, the Company performed a ceiling test and recognized impairment charges of $5,951,622 and $918,991 on the Oklahoma and Missouri assets, respectively.
Oil Wells, Properties, Operations, and Acreage
The following table sets forth the number of oil wells in which we held a working interest as of April 30, 2017 and 2016:
(1)
We acquired the predecessor assets of Petro River Oil Corporation on April 23, 2016. These assets are no longer in operation.
The following table sets forth the lease areas we have an interest in, by area, as of April 30, 2017 and 2016:
(1)
We have no plans for any further material expenditure on these properties as a result of the legal acquirer’s prior drilling results and a lack of resources.
(2)
Management concluded that as of April 30, 2016, the Missouri assets were impaired by $918,991 and the Oklahoma assets were impaired by $5,951,622.
Oil and Natural Gas Reserves
Oil and natural gas information is provided in accordance with ASC Topic 932 - “Extractive Activities - Oil and Gas”.
The Company has approximately $2.0 million and $2.1 million in proven oil and gas reserves as of April 30, 2017 and 2016, respectively. For the year ended April 30, 2017 the reports by Pinnacle Energy Services, LLC (“Pinnacle”) covered 100% of the Company’s oil reserves.
Proved oil and natural gas reserves, as defined within SEC Rule 4-10(a)(22) of Regulation S-X, are those quantities of oil and gas, which, by analysis of geoscience and engineering data can be estimated with reasonable certainty to be economically producible from a given date forward from known reservoirs, and under existing economic conditions, operating methods and government regulations prior to the time of which contracts providing the right to operate expire, unless evidence indicates that renewal is reasonably certain, regardless of whether determinable or probabilistic methods are used for the estimation. The project to extract the hydrocarbons must have commenced or the operator must be reasonably certain that it will commence the project within a reasonable time. Developed oil and natural gas reserves are reserves that can be expected to be recovered from existing wells with existing equipment and operating methods or in which the cost of the required equipment is relatively minor compared to the cost of a new well; and through installed extraction equipment and infrastructure operational at the time of the reserves estimate is the extraction is by means not involving a well. Estimates of the Company’s oil reserves are subject to uncertainty and will change as additional information regarding producing fields and technology becomes available and as future economic and operating conditions change.
Our undeveloped acreage includes leased acres on which wells have not been drilled or completed to a point that would permit the production of commercial quantities of oil and natural gas, regardless of whether or not such acreage is held by production or contains proved reserves. A gross acre is an acre in which we own an interest. A net acre is deemed to exist when the sum of fractional ownership interests in gross acres equals one. The number of net acres is the sum of the fractional interests owned in gross acres.
Net Production, Unit Prices and Costs
The following table presents certain information with respect to our oil and natural gas production and prices and costs attributable to all oil and natural gas properties owned by us for the periods shown.
Drilling and Other Exploratory and Development Activities
The Company’s Direct Working Interest Projects
Northern Ireland - Larne Basin. We completed drilling the Woodburn Forest #1 well in June 2016. The primary objectives of the well were to (i) confirm the existence and maturity of the carboniferous source rock and (ii) test potential hydrocarbon-bearing objective zones. Unexpectedly, the overlying Permian section thickened considerably at 2,000 meters, and several participants owning 55% of the working interest in the well (including Horizon Energy) expressed interest in deepening the well an additional 600 meters. However, participants representing the other 45% of the interest were unwilling to fund their share of the additional costs, and without unanimity determined that continued drilling was impractical. The well has been plugged and the drilling rig has been demobilized from the location.
The drilling detected background gas shows in the drilling fluid, and samples were sent to Applied Petroleum Technology, (“APT”) an internationally recognized independent geochemical laboratory in Oslo, Norway. APT determined that the gas originated from a carboniferous source, providing evidence of nearby source rock and an active petroleum system. The samples were strikingly similar to a gas sample from a producing gas field in in Lancashire, England, just across the North Channel.
Historically, large basinal discoveries are found and developed only after thorough analysis of technical data derived from both seismic acquisition and drilling of wells. Management believes that Larne Basin continues to be a very attractive exploration opportunity based on technical merit, modest exploration costs, low political risk and excellent fiscal terms. The Company is continuing the exploration program by relocating to offshore targets and reprocessing seismic data.
Pearsonia West - Osage County, Oklahoma. The Company is pursuing its core strategy in this well-known basin, drilling vertical wells in relatively shallow conventional legacy reservoirs using modern 3-D seismic surveys. The Company has acquired approximately 106,000 acres in Osage County in an area that was the focus of a deeper horizontal play and is reprocessing 36 square miles of 3-D seismic data to refocus on a shallow (3,000 to 4,000 ft.) vertical program. The Company is targeting the Mississippian-aged Chert formation and Pennsylvanian-aged formations. Management projects estimated ultimate recovery at 50,000 barrels of oil per well. Pearsonia West is a low-cost conventional project surrounded by 800 million barrels of historical production. The Company plans to drill six vertical wells this year at a cost of $250,000 per well. The Company has drilled three wells as of July 5, 2017.
Kern County, California. The Kern County project, the re-development of a 100-million-barrel oil field, is currently progressing, beginning with the spudding of the Company’s Sunset Boulevard prospect in Kern County, California. On July 18, 2017, the Company announced a new oil field discovery in its Sunset Boulevard prospect upon successfully drilling the Cattani-Rennie 47X-15 exploration well (“CR 47X”). The CR 47X was drilled to a depth of approximately 8,500 feet and confirmed at least two commercially successful pay zones. The discovery is currently being evaluated but initial results indicate significant reserve potential. Following completion and production tests, the Company will announce development plans. Several additional prospect wells are now being planned to be drilled in Kern County.
Horizon Energy Projects
Denmark Offshore. The Denmark project is a prospective, underexplored oil basin on trend with the major oil and gas fields offshore in Norway and the United Kingdom. We are currently evaluating the four licenses awarded earlier this year to Ardent Oil Denmark (“Ardent”) (Horizon Energy owns 50% of Ardent). We are in final stages of interpreting the high-quality 3-D seismic survey we acquired last year. Ardent will thereafter commence marketing efforts to farm-out the prospect to a major oil company. The potential reserve target is in the range of 200,000,000 barrels of oil. The other three licenses are being high-graded and are in various stages of evaluation. The goal is to advance them technically to a point at which we can solicit a larger company to either acquire new 3-D data and/or drill an exploration well on each.
Dorset, U.K. Onshore. The Dorset project is south of and adjacent to the giant Wytch Farm oil field, the largest onshore oil field in Western Europe, which has produced approximately 500 million barrels of oil and 175 billion cubic feet of natural gas since production first began in 1979. Horizon Energy was recently awarded two onshore blocks. Seven wells were previously drilled within the license area, including the first UK offshore well in 1963 on Lulworth Banks. Six of these wells encountered oil or gas shows and three flowed oil or gas on test. A new 3-D seismic survey is planned in 2017 over new blocks to more clearly image prospects/leads identified on older 2-D data.
ITEM 3.