ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
Facilities
Our office in Dallas consists of 11,847 square feet of leased office space. The operating partnership owns a field office in Hooker, Oklahoma and leases part of an office in Amarillo, Texas.
Properties
We own two categories of properties: the Royalty Properties and the Net Profits Interests.
Royalty Properties
We own Royalty Properties representing producing and nonproducing mineral, royalty, overriding royalty, net profits and leasehold interests in properties located in 573 counties and parishes in 25 states. Acreage
Index to Financial Statements
amounts listed herein represent our best estimates based on information provided to us as a royalty owner. Due to the significant number of individual deeds, leases and similar instruments involved in the acquisition and development of the Royalty Properties by us or our predecessors, acreage amounts are subject to change as new information becomes available. In addition, as a royalty owner, our access to information concerning activity and operations on the Royalty Properties is limited. Most of our producing properties are subject to old leases and other contracts pursuant to which we are not entitled to well information. Some of our newer leases provide for access to technical data and other information. We may have limited access to public data in some areas through third party subscription services. Consequently, the exact number of wells producing from or drilling on the Royalty Properties is not determinable. The primary manner by which we will become aware of activity on the Royalty Properties is the receipt of division orders or other correspondence from operators or purchasers.
Acreage Summary
The following table sets forth as of December 31, 2008, a summary of our gross and net, where applicable, acres of mineral, royalty, overriding royalty and leasehold interests, and a compilation of the number of counties and parishes and states in which these interests are located. The majority of our net mineral acres are unleased. Acreage amounts may not add across due to overlapping ownership among categories.
Our net interest in production from royalty, overriding royalty and leasehold interests is based on lease royalty and other third-party contractual terms, which vary from property to property. Consequently, net acreage ownership in these categories is not determinable. Our net interest in production from properties in which we own a royalty or overriding royalty interest may be affected by royalty terms negotiated by the mineral interest owners in such tracts and their lessees. Our interest in the majority of these properties is perpetual in nature. However, a minor portion of the properties are subject to terms and conditions pursuant to which a portion of our interest may terminate upon cessation of production.
The following table sets forth, as of December 31, 2008, the combined summary of total gross and net (where applicable) acres of mineral, royalty, overriding royalty and leasehold interests in each of the states in which these interests are located.
Index to Financial Statements Leasing Activity
We received cash payments in the amount of $441,000 during 2008 attributable to lease bonus on 51 leases and 11 pooling elections in lands located in 24 counties and parishes in four states. These leases reflected bonus payments ranging up to $850/acre and initial royalty terms ranging up to 30%. Many of these leases contain additional overriding royalty interests and provisions for optional working interest participation in subsequent wells, back-in working interests after payout or escalating royalty terms.
We received cash payments in the amount of $32,000 during the fourth quarter of 2008 attributable to lease bonus on four leases of our interests in lands located in five counties and parishes in three states. These leases reflected bonus payments ranging up to $850/acre and initial royalty terms ranging up to 30%.
The following table sets forth a summary of leases and pooling elections consummated during 2006 through 2008.
Three leases were granted for no bonus consideration in 2008, which reflected royalty terms ranging from 22% to 30%. Average bonus and royalty terms reflected above include these three leases. Two leases were granted in 2008, which included (in addition to royalty or bonus) an overriding royalty interest, back-in working interest or optional working interest participation. Average royalty terms reflected above do not reflect these additional interests. Amounts reflected above may differ from our consolidated financial statements, which are presented on an accrual basis. Average royalty and average bonus exclude amounts attributable to pooling elections. Payments received for gas storage, shut-in and delay rental payments, coal royalty, surface use agreements, litigation judgments and settlement proceeds are reflected in our consolidated financial statements in various categories including, but not limited to, other operating revenues and other income.
Net Profits Interests
We own net profits overriding royalty interests (referred to as the Net Profits Interests) in various properties owned by the operating partnership. We receive monthly payments equaling 96.97% of the net profits actually realized by the operating partnership from these properties in the preceding month. In the event costs exceed revenues on a cash basis in a given month for properties subject to a Net Profits Interest, no payment is made and any deficit is accumulated and carried over and reflected in the following month’s calculation of net profit.
We own five separate Net Profits Interests, four of which were created in connection with the combination in 2003 and one immaterial deficit Net Profits Interest subsequently created. Three of these Net Profits Interests have been in a continuous profit status other than temporary deficits in that revenues have exceeded costs and cash payments have been made by the operating partnership to us each quarter. The purpose of such Net Profits Interests is to avoid the participation as a working interest or other cost-bearing owner that could result in unrelated business taxable income. Net profits interest payments are not considered unrelated business taxable income for tax purposes. The fourth Net Profits Interest, referred to as the Minerals NPI, has continuously had costs that exceed revenues. As of December 31, 2008, cumulative operating and development costs presented in the following table, which include amounts equivalent to an interest charge, exceeded cumulative revenues of the Minerals NPI, resulting in a cumulative deficit. All cumulative deficits (which represent cumulative excess of operating and development costs over revenue received) are borne 100% by our general partner until the
Index to Financial Statements
Minerals NPI recovers the deficit amount. Once in profit status, we will receive the Net Profits Interest payments attributable to these properties. Our consolidated financial statements do not reflect activity attributable to properties subject to Net Profits Interests that are in a deficit status. Consequently, net profits interest payments, production sales volumes and prices, and oil and gas reserves set forth in other portions of this annual report do not reflect amounts attributable to the Minerals NPI, which includes all of the operating partnership’s Fayetteville Shale working interest properties in Arkansas.
The following tables set forth cash receipts and disbursements, production volumes and reserves attributable to the Minerals NPI for the calendar years 2003 through 2008.
The revenue amounts, the production volumes, and the proved reserves presented include only properties producing revenue. The development cost amounts pertain to more properties than the properties producing revenue due to timing differences between operating partnership expenditures and oil and gas production and payments to the operating partnership. Amounts in the above table include budgeted capital expenditures of $905,000 at December 31, 2008.
The indicated prices set forth above are calculated by dividing each year’s gross revenues for each product by the production volume of the corresponding product. Cash received for revenue includes minor amounts of non-product revenue. Such calculation does not necessarily reflect contractual terms for sales and may be affected by transportation costs, location differentials, quality and gravity adjustments and timing differences between production and cash receipts, including release of suspended funds, initial payments for accumulated sales, or prior period adjustments.
(1) All reserves are proved developed.
(2) Based on year end pricing of oil and gas.
Index to Financial Statements Amounts in the above tables reflect the operating partnership’s ownership of the subject properties. Net Profits Interest payments to us, if any, will equal 96.97% of the cumulative net profits actually received by the operating partnership attributable to the subject properties. The above production sales volumes, indicated prices, oil and gas reserves, and financial information attributable to the Minerals NPI may not be indicative of future results of the Minerals NPI and may not indicate when the deficit status may end and when Net Profits Interests payment may begin from the Minerals NPI.
The Minerals NPI includes numerous opportunities for the operating partnership to participate as a working interest owner in drilling activity on lands in which we owned a mineral or royalty interest as of the date such Minerals NPI was created. Most of these opportunities are evidenced by a contractual option, but not the obligation, to participate in activity located in defined lands and leases, although some arise by non-contractual means or by operation of law. With regard to the opportunities evidenced by a contractual option, the operating partnership’s decision to exercise these options and participate as a working interest owner is made on a well-by-well basis and only in the event a third party proposes to drill a well subject to the contractual option. With regard to the opportunities to participate as a working interest owner that arise non-contractually or by operation of law, we obtain or are provided those opportunities due to the actions of persons that we do not control. Thus, we are unable to project when wells may be drilled, whether the operating partnership may elect to participate, or otherwise end up participating, in such drilling or the magnitude of the corresponding investment, either individually or in the aggregate, with respect to the Minerals NPI. In the event the operating partnership does elect to participate pursuant to these options, or otherwise ends up so participating per force of certain non-contractual relationships or by operation of law, the Minerals NPI deficit is likely to increase. Regardless of the operating partnership’s future voluntary or involuntary participation, we believe net profits interest payments, if any, made upon the Minerals NPI’s first reaching profit status will be minimal as development of these properties, and consequently the operating partnership’s payments of development expenditures associated therewith, is likely to continue for at least five years. See the discussion under “Drilling Activity” below for additional information on some of these working interest participation options and possibilities.
Acreage Summary
The following tables set forth, as of December 31, 2008, information concerning properties owned by the operating partnership and subject to the Net Profits Interests, including the Minerals NPI properties. Acreage amounts listed under “Leasehold” reflect gross acres leased by the operating partnership and the working interest share (net acres) in those properties. Acreage amounts listed under “Mineral” reflect gross acres in which the operating partnership owns a mineral interest and the undivided mineral interest (net acres) in those properties. The operating partnership’s interest in these properties may be unleased, leased by others or a combination thereof. Acreage amounts may not add across due to overlapping ownership among categories.
The following table reflects the states in which the acreage amounts listed above are located.
Index to Financial Statements The operating partnership owns working interests below the currently producing horizons in 47,360 gross/46,960 net acres in Texas County, Oklahoma. The operating partnership has from time to time farmed out its leasehold interests in portions of these lands, reserving an overriding royalty interest therein, and will consider additional exploration or development of these lands as circumstances warrant. The leasehold acreage includes all of the acreage in the Fayetteville Shale properties of Arkansas in which we have the right to participate.
Costs Incurred
The following table sets forth information regarding 100% of the costs incurred on a cash basis by the operating partnership during the periods indicated in connection with the properties underlying the Net Profits Interests.
(1)
The years ended December 31, 2006, 2007 and 2008 include $1,691,000, $2,647,000 and $5,698,000, respectively, attributable to NPIs not yet in pay status.
Productive Well Summary
The following table sets forth, as of December 31, 2008, the combined number of producing wells on the properties subject to the Net Profits Interests, including the Minerals NPI. Gross wells refer to wells in which a working interest is owned. Net wells are determined by multiplying gross wells by the working interest in those wells.
(1) Multiple well units operated by someone other than the operating partnership and in which we own Net Profits Interests are included as one gross well.
Drilling Activity
We received division orders for or otherwise identified 423 new wells completed on our Royalty Properties in 10 states during 2008. Forty-two new wells were completed and we identified six wells that were completed in prior years on our Net Profits Interests properties, all located in five states during 2008, with 21 additional wells in various stages of drilling or completion operations at year-end. Selected new wells and the royalty interests owned by us and the working and net revenue interests owned by the operating partnership are summarized below.
Index to Financial Statements This table does not include wells drilled in the Fayetteville Shale trend as they are detailed in a subsequent discussion and table.
(1) WI means the working interest owned by the operating partnership and subject to the Net Profits Interest.
(2) NRI means the net revenue interest attributable to our royalty interest or to the operating partnership’s royalty and working interest, which is subject to the Net Profits Interest.
Additional information concerning selected recent activity is summarized below:
Fayetteville Shale Trend of Northern Arkansas-We own varying undivided perpetual mineral interests totaling 23,336/11,464 gross/net acres located in Cleburne, Conway, Faulkner, Franklin, Johnson, Pope, Van Buren, and White counties, Arkansas in an area commonly referred to as the “Fayetteville Shale” trend of the Arkoma Basin. One hundred twenty-nine wells have been permitted on the lands as of December 31, 2008, of which the operating partnership has an interest in 86. In total, 106 wells had been spud, 85 had been completed as producers and 20 were in various stages of drilling or completion operations. Wells that have been proposed to be drilled by the operator but for which permits have not yet been issued by the Arkansas Oil & Gas Commission are not reflected in this number. Available test results for wells completed in 2008, along with ownership interests owned by us and interests owned by the operating partnership subject to the Minerals NPI, are summarized in the following table.
(1) WI means the working interest owned by the operating partnership and subject to the Minerals NPI.
(2) NRI means the net revenue interest attributable to our royalty interest or to the operating partnership’s royalty and working interest, which is subject to the Minerals NPI.
Index to Financial Statements Set forth below is a summary of all permitting, drilling and completion activity through December 31, 2008 for wells in which we have a royalty or Net Profits Interest. This includes wells subject to the Minerals NPI, which is currently in deficit status.
(1)
Wells in Pay Status means wells for which revenue was initially received during the indicated period.
Our estimated proved reserves as of December 31, 2008, include reserves attributable to our royalty interest in 70 wells totaled 1.37 bcf. Proved reserves attributable to working interests owned by the operating partnership totaled 1.51 bcf in 45 wells. These estimates only include wells for which test rates have been obtained.
Net cash receipts for the Royalty Properties attributable to interests in these lands totaled $1,870,000 in 2008 from 35 wells. Net cash receipts for the Minerals NPI properties attributable to interests in these lands totaled $1,977,000 in 2008 from 70 wells. Fourth quarter net cash receipts for the Royalty Properties and the Minerals NPI properties totaled $484,000 from 35 wells and $499,000 from 68 wells, respectively.
Horizontal Bakken, Williston Basin-We own varying undivided perpetual mineral interests totaling 70,390/7,602 gross/net acres located in Burke, Divide, Dunn, McKenzie, Mountrail and Williams Counties, North Dakota. Operators active in this area include Continental Resources, EOG Resources, Hess Corporation and Marathon Oil Company. There have been a total of 64 wells permitted on these lands as of December 31, 2008 with 36 completed as producers. In all cases we have elected not to lease our lands and not to pay our share of well costs, thus becoming a non-consenting mineral owner. According to North Dakota law, non-consenting owners receive the average royalty rate from the date of first production and back-in for their full working interest after the operator has recovered 150% of drilling and completion costs. Once 150% payout occurs, the working interest will be owned by the operating partnership and subject to the Minerals NPI. Non-consenting owners are not entitled to well data other than public information available from the North Dakota Industrial Commission.
As of December 31, 2008, three wells had achieved 150% payout. One of these wells, the Risan 1-34H, is located in the Parshall field and operated by EOG Resources. The well initially tested at a rate of 817 barrels of oil and 308 mcf of gas per day. Our independent reserve engineers estimate gross ultimate reserves of 480,000 barrels of oil and 0.2 bcf of gas. At year-end the estimated remaining reserves were 279,000 barrels of oil and 0.1 bcf of gas. The operating partnership owns a 6.97% net revenue interest in this well.
Set forth below is a summary of all permitting, drilling and completion activity through December 31, 2008 for wells in which we have a royalty or Net Profits Interest. This includes wells subject to the Minerals NPI, which is currently in a deficit status.
(1) Wells in Pay Status means wells for which revenue was initially received during the indicated period.
Index to Financial Statements Bob West Field, Hidalgo County, Texas-We own varying undivided mineral interests in several thousand acres in the Bob West Field area of western Starr County, Texas. A portion of this acreage has been leased and is currently operated by El Paso Exploration and Production Company. Recent development on these lands resulted in several high rate wells that impacted our production volumes and reserves. The Cow Creek Corporation #3 well was drilled to a depth of 15,080 feet and completed in June 2008 with an initial test rate of 14,812 mcf per day. Gross ultimate gas reserves of 8.0 bcf have been assigned to this well and we own a 10.24% net revenue interest. The Guerra USA D #15 was drilled to a depth of 13,185 feet and completed in March 2008 with an initial test rate of 2,088 mcf per day. The Guerra USA D #16 was drilled to a depth of 16,100 feet and completed in October 2008 with an initial test rate of 5,857 mcf per day. We own an 8.19% net revenue interest in these wells. As of December 31, 2008, one additional well was waiting on completion and another location was permitted.
Appalachian Basin-We own varying undivided perpetual mineral interests in approximately 31,000/22,000 gross/net acres in 19 counties in southern New York and northern Pennsylvania. Approximately 75% of these net acres are located in eastern Allegany and western Steuben Counties, New York, an area which some industry press reports suggest may be prospective for gas production from unconventional reservoirs, including the Marcellus Shale. We continue to monitor industry activity and encourage dialogue with industry participants to determine the proper course of action regarding our interests in this area.
Oil and Natural Gas Reserves
The following table reflects the Partnership’s proved developed and total proved reserves, future net revenues and Standardized Measure at December 31, 2006, 2007 and 2008. The reserves and future net revenues are based on the reports of the independent petroleum engineering consulting firms of Calhoun, Blair & Associates and Huddleston & Co., Inc. Other than those filed with the SEC, our estimated proved reserves have not been filed with or included in any reports to any federal agency.
(1) Reserves, revenues and present values reflect 96.97% of the corresponding amounts assigned to the operating partnership’s interests in the properties underlying the Net Profits Interests.
(2) We do not reflect a federal income tax provision since our partners include the income of our Partnership in their respective federal income tax returns.
Currently, proved oil and gas reserves means the estimated quantities of crude oil, natural gas, and natural gas liquids which geological and engineering data demonstrate with reasonable certainty to be recoverable in future years from known reservoirs under existing economic and operating conditions, i.e., prices and costs as of the date the estimate is made. Please see the Glossary for the current definition of proved reserves. However, the SEC recently adopted final rules amending its oil and gas reporting requirements. See “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements-Note 6-Unaudited Oil and Natural Gas Reserve and Standardized Measure Information” for additional information.
Title to Properties
We believe we have satisfactory title to all of our assets. Record title to essentially all our assets has undergone the appropriate filings in the jurisdictions in which such assets are located. Title to property may be
Index to Financial Statements
subject to encumbrances. We believe that none of such encumbrances should materially detract from the value of our properties or from our interest in these properties or should materially interfere with their use in the operation of our business.
ITEM 3.