ITEM 2. PROPERTIES.
Our offices
We rent the premises for our principal office located at 5610 E. Sutler Lane, Tucson, Arizona 85712. We rent this office space for $522 per month plus a pro rata share of taxes and maintenance. Our employees work either from our principal office or from offices maintained in their homes.
We believe that our existing office facilities are adequate for our needs. Should we require additional space in the future, we believe that such space can be secured on commercially reasonable terms.
Our Pima Office
The Company entered into a 24-month office lease at 5232 E Pima Street, Suite D, Tucson, Arizona, effective October 1, 2016 through September 30, 2018, with a base rent of $2,100 per month through September 30, 2017 and then $2,163 per month through September 30, 2018.
Our mineral claims
All of the Company’s claims for mineral properties are in good standing as of January 31, 2017.
North Pipes:
We hold a 100% interest in 11 (unpatented) federal lode mining claims strategically placed on the Arizona Strip. The 11 unpatented federal lode mining claims with an area of 227.7 acres include breccia pipe targets (“Pipes”). Breccia pipes are cylindrical formations in the earth’s crust sometimes identified by a surface depression, or surface bump or no visible surface expression at all, and contain a high concentration of fragmented rock “breccia” sometimes cemented by uranium and other minerals. We plan to ascertain whether our North Pipes claims possess commercially viable deposits of uranium. Due to the moratorium of location of lode mining claims on the Arizona Strip and the low price of U3O8 we have no current exploration plans and will not until the uranium price increases and the moratorium expires in about 15 years. We intend to hold a strategic position until such time that it is economically feasible to mount a new drilling program. We want to take advantage of more than a million dollars of exploration data which was acquired by Liberty Star when uranium prices were higher and before the moratorium was instituted.
North Pipes is located on the Arizona Strip, which is located approximately 10 miles south of the town of Fredonia, AZ. Access is by Hwy 389 and various dirt roads, some of which are maintained and some that are very primitive. 4WD vehicles are necessary for the primitive dirt roads. Some of the claims cannot be driven to and require hiking to their location or under an approved plan of operation it is possible to create an access road.
Our NPSP claims are undeveloped. There are neither open-pit nor underground mines, nor is there any mining plant or equipment located on the properties. There is no power supply to the properties. We have not found any mineral resources on any of our claims. The Arizona Strip was an active exploration district in the 1970’s and 1980’s with multiple producing uranium mines. No evidence of actual development work has been found on any of our properties and no significant exploration activities have been performed on our NPSP claims since 2008 due to many factors including the lowered uranium prices and the moratorium on locating claims. Below is a summary of prior exploration activities performed on our NPSP claims:
Geophysics: We have completed PEM (Pulse Electro-magnetic) geophysical surveys on some of our NPSP claims. Two types of PEM surveys were conducted in 2007: (i) Downhole PEM and (ii) In-Loop PEM. We have also used CSAMT and NSAMT (Controlled and Natural Source Audio-range Magneto Tellurics), run on the ground and executed by Zonge Engineering of Tucson AZ. A survey was also completed on an approximately six square mile area by VTEM helicopter borne electromagnetic survey along right angle crossing grid lines spaced 100 meters apart, which was performed by Geotech of Aurora, Ontario, Canada. Significant anomalies resulted from this survey. Preliminary drilling on one of Liberty Star’s anomalies intersected strong breccia, alteration and pyrite mineralization. The holes did not penetrate down to the elevation where uranium mineralization would be expected, but are targets for future work. As of this date we have not developed any uranium resources on the Arizona Strip.
Stereoscopic geologic color air photo interpretation (photo-geology): Stereoscopic geologic interpretation of 1:24,000 (1 inch = 2,000 feet) high resolution color air photographs were contracted for and completed by Dr. Karen Wenrich and Edward Ulmer, a Registered Professional Geologist. Dr. Wenrich worked on the Arizona Strip uranium bearing breccia pipes almost exclusively during her twenty three year tenure with the United States Geological Survey from which she is now retired. During this period of study she authored many professional papers on breccia pipes of the Grant Canyon area, and is considered a foremost expert on them. Mr. Ulmer worked on the Arizona Strip in the mid to late 1970s working on both imagery interpretation and surface geology.
Geologic field mapping on the surface: Geological field mapping was conducted in the fall of 2005 through 2007 by our staff geologists as well as contracted geologists. Approximately 180 of the breccia pipe target areas have been mapped in detail 1:5,000 (1 inch = 417 feet). Several detailed measured stratigraphic sections have also been completed.
Geochemical sampling: A comprehensive soil geochemical survey was completed in 2007. We have collected approximately 14,000 soil samples over all identifiable breccia pipes, both those with known ore and those that are yet to be proven by drilling. A strict chain of custody procedures were followed and quality assurance/quality control (QA/QC) samples were inserted regularly into the sample stream. The samples were assayed for 63 elements. Assay analyses were conducted by a Certified Assay Lab, Acme Analytical Laboratories of Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada. We believe that these samples allow us to identify potential uranium bearing breccia pipes versus barren or non-uranium bearing breccia pipes.
Drilling: In 2007 a drilling program was undertaken using both rotary drilling and core drilling. Rotary drilling was contracted by Boart Longyear. Diamond core drilling was completed by Redwall Drilling Inc., a former wholly owned subsidiary of Liberty Star. A total of 22 holes were drilled for a total of 16,226 feet of drilling. Important intersections of rock generally associated with producing breccia pipes were made. We did not intersect any ore mineralization during the drilling program.
Total costs including claim staking (initially in 2005), claim maintenance and a drilling program (exploratory) in calendar years 2007 and 2008, are $5,220,794.
Beginning in 2006, Certified Professional Geologist Dr. Karen Wenrich and a dozen other well regarded geoscientists engaged in an exploratory program centering on the region’s breccia pipes. By the time Dr. Wenrich came to work on the North Pipes project, she had 27 years with the USGS working on breccia pipe research and was a member of a Nobel Peace Prize winning team of UN atomic science specialists. The Liberty Star team worked with high resolution color aerial photographs and other reconnaissance covering approximately 2,000 square miles to format geological maps of the terrain. In addition to geology, geophysics gamma ray spectroscopy, approximately 14,000 soil samples were collected and analyzed by a certified lab for 63 elements. These were located precisely as they were collected using GPS. The results were compiled and plotted using GIS software, and various contouring and interpretation techniques. Expenses included food and lodging and a daily commute of approximately 100 miles. Road conditions were extreme and resulted in vehicle expenses of approximately $2.00 per mile. Various contractors were used in claim staking, and other contract work in sample collection. Helicopters and light planes were used for various transportation tasks. Home office support also involved permanent and contract support.
Exploratory drilling includes costs of travel, food and lodging, payments on the drill rig, drill bits, fuel, drilling permits, and maintenance costs of the drill rig and of support vehicles. Also included are the costs of reclamation bonds and reclamation costs of lands disturbed by drilling, as well as the costs of conducting archaeological surveys to identify prehistoric remains of human habitation or human activity.
Currently there are no planned costs for the North Pipes Super Project unless commodity prices, specifically for uranium, increase sufficiently to make exploration financially tenable. The Moratorium on acquiring any additional land has also negatively affected the current investment climate for such work. However we have a letter agreement with Mr. Andrew Mueller to option our existing claims North Pipes claims to him for mining using his vertical bore technology. He believes this will make the Pipes exploitable.
Big Chunk Super Project - Location, claims, geology and technical studies:
Big Chunk Super Project: The Big Chunk Super Project located in the Iliamna region of Southwestern Alaska: After much caution and thought, we have decided at this time to no longer put any funds into Big Chunk.
Tombstone:
Our CEO, CFO, President, Chief Geologist and Chairman of the Board, James A. Briscoe, has long experience in the Tombstone district, southeast Arizona, where he first worked in 1972. In the mid-1980s, he concluded that much earlier regional geologic work had reached erroneous conclusions and that Tombstone was a large and ancient (72 million years before the present - or Laramide in age) volcanic structure - a caldera. He brought this to the attention of the US Geological Survey caldera experts, who after study concluded that Briscoe was correct. Subsequently, more than seventeen calderas of various ages have been identified in Arizona by the US Geological survey, the Arizona Geological Survey and others. Such calderas of Laramide age are all associated with porphyry alteration and copper and associated mineralization; many of these have become very large copper mines. Studies by Mr. Briscoe over the years, and more recently using advanced technology, have indicated that alteration associated mineralization at Tombstone is much more extensive than originally thought. This alteration lies largely under cover and is indicated by geochemistry, geophysics and projection of known geology into covered areas.
We hold 29 unpatented standard federal lode mining claims with an area of 604 acres located due east and southeast of the town of Tombstone, Arizona which defines the Walnut Creek Project
The Hay Mountain Project is located 6.5 miles southeast of Tombstone where we hold 4 Arizona State Mineral Exploration Permits (MEPs) covering (1,886.88 acres) or 3 square miles.; Access is by Hwy 89, Davis Rd. and Wild West road.
On April 29, 2008 Liberty Star announced that it had leased, with an option to purchase, three properties from JABA US Inc. in Arizona and Nevada, USA. Liberty Star President James A. Briscoe controls JABA US INC and Dr. J. M. Guilbert, Director of the Company, holds a small stock position as well. The properties in Arizona are part of the Tombstone Walnut Creek project, at Tombstone and the East Silverbell project.
A 26 lode claim block at East Silverbell also belonging to JABA US lies adjunct to ASARCO patented mining claims of the Silverbell mine, in Pima County about 40 miles NW of Tucson AZ.
In Clark County Nevada, JABA held title to the Providence patented claim immediately adjacent to the Montgomery Shoshone open pit silver gold mine, within the Beatty mining district. The Option covering the property in Nevada was sold in October, 2008 to NPX Metals. Proceeds from that sale were loaned immediately back to Liberty Star by Mr. Briscoe, with the understanding this would be repaid to JABA (US) Inc.
For the remaining claims owned by JABA (US) Inc. according to the option agreement, Liberty Star could earn up to 100% interest by keeping up annual assessment work and spending $175,000 in exploration expenditures on the properties between April 2008 and January 1, 2011 and subject to a Net Smelter Return Royalty (NSR) in perpetuity. This provision payment of assessment and related expenses has been met and option agreement has been maintained over the Tombstone and East Silverbell Claims.
At Hay Mountain, we plan to ascertain whether the Hay Mountain lode mining claims and AZ MEPs possess commercially viable deposits of copper, gold, molybdenum, silver, zinc, rare earth metals and other valuable metals. We have a phased exploration plan that involves diamond core drilling of multiple holes over targets determined by analysis of geochemical sampling and ZTEM electromagnetic and magnetic survey. Initial phase 1 drilling is planned to take approximately one year. Should results indicate the viability of the project, additional phased work, both exploration and development, is planned over the course of seven total years to define the nature and size of an ore body(s) and move toward mining. Any exploration plans are dependent on acquiring suitable funding. No part of the phased program is currently funded.
The Tombstone claims are undeveloped. However significant amounts of aeromagnetic surveys, IP (Induced Polarization Surveys), geologic mapping by the USGS and others, and geochemical surveys including soil, rock and vegetation sampling have been conducted at various times by various parties, over the last 60 years. When compiled and analyzed these various data suggest a compelling series of anomalies that are typical of buried, dirt and rock covered porphyry copper system(s). Below is a summary of prior exploration activities performed on our Tombstone claims: Technical Report: In mid-March 2011, Liberty Star contracted SRK to prepare three (3) Technical studies and Reports in a form similar to mineral reports prescribed under NI 43-101. Members of SRK’s engineering/scientific staff supervised by a Qualified Person as defined under NI 43-101 and SRK’s Tucson Office Principal Geologist, Corolla Hoag, and geologist Dr. Jan Rasmussen have visited the Tombstone property. This information was combined with historic technical reports going back to 1878 and more recent data up to August 2011 (the date of their reports). The three Technical Reports are entitled: (1) Walnut Creek Exploration Report, Tombstone District, Arizona -August 31, 2011, 147 pages; (2) The Tombstone Caldera South Exploration Report, Tombstone District, Arizona -August 31, 2011, 144 pages; and (3) Hay Mountain Exploration Report, Tombstone District, Arizona - August 31 2011, 155 pages. Because the Company’s stock does not trade on any Canadian stock exchanges, these three Technical Reports were not submitted to SEDAR, the electronic system for the official filing of documents by public companies and investment funds across Canada. We had also requested that SRK prepare a report on the Tombstone Consolidated Mines patented claims. These claims covered the entirety of historic productive area of the Tombstone mines which date to their discovery in 1877. However, before that report could be completed a competitor acquired a lease on those lands. These Technical Reports thoroughly summarize and illustrate the salient geotechnical data of the Tombstone Mining District covering about 250 square miles and present much data in computer map format. In such context, they analyze Liberty Star’s exploration programs as related to the entire area, make estimates and recommend execution of proposed Company exploration programs. Because of competitive pressure and the unique nature of the data which includes 40+ years of private report compilation by Mr. Briscoe, these reports are considered confidential and will not be released for the foreseeable future. Geochemical sampling at the Hay Mountain Project: In 2011 and early 2012 we collected nearly 1,800 rock, soil and vegetation samples over 621 sample sites over approximately 14 square miles centered on the Hay Mountain property. These samples have been assayed for 63 elements generating about 113,000 analyses. The samples were prepared by MEG Inc. and have been shipped to ALS Minerals (ALS-Chemex) a Certified (under NI 43-101 criteria and approved by regulatory processes) geochemical analysis lab in Vancouver, British Columbia. Assay results have been sent to our Tucson office and all assays have been received. Our geology team has generated computer analyses that allow interpretation of the data.
Geologic Mapping: Small scale geologic mapping was performed in the Hay Mountain area by two different U.S. Geological Survey Senior Geologists. The first was by James Gilluly starting in the late 1930s and published in the early 1950’s, as a Professional Paper 281, 1956, and the second by Harold Drewes, published USGS Professional Paper 1144 1981. The Drewes map was a simplified version of the Gilluly map with faults adjusted to Drewes’s interpretation. Unfortunately, little or no refinement of the rock types or actual outcropping rocks was accomplished. Gilluly, while apparently generally correct in outcrop identification, disturbingly on close examination it appears he missed important outcropping rocks and at least in the Hay Mountain area of the major geochemical anomaly he misinterpreted stratigraphic rock types. In the area we have termed the Chrysocolla Block he failed to note the outcrop completely and our thorough examination revealed it to be Earp formation, whereas all the surrounding mapped area was mapped as the younger Colina limestone. This would put the Chrysocolla Block more than 1,000 feet above the Earp and 1,700 feet or more above the receptive-to- mineralization Horquilla formation where most of the production from Bisbee has been found and high grade which is now being drilled out at Rosemont Camp about 50 miles to the west. This critical error we have corrected on our maps to show this area as the lower Earp and believe that the recently discovered gossan outcrops are lying perhaps 200 to 400 feet above the Earp- Horquilla contact. Furthermore, neither Gilluly nor Drewes noticed pervasively fluidized and rounded limestone breccia which covers square miles and is typical feature of porphyry copper deposits. We believe perhaps massive copper (chalcopyrite) mineralization will be located in the Horquilla formation 200 to 400 feet below the gossan outcrops in the Earp formation. This analysis plus all of our geochemistry and geophysics is the justification for our currently planned drill hole program.
ZTEM EM Survey: We requested and received a cost estimate from Geotech of Aurora (Toronto area) Ontario, Canada, which is the only purveyor of this helicopter borne electromagnetic (EM) geophysical method. This geophysical method has the ability to “look down” into the crust of the earth about 2,000 meters (6,600 feet) and detect sulfides and other rock types and structures which may be associated with porphyry copper systems. Test work over known Safford, Arizona porphyry copper deposits along with thousands of verifying drill holes show the geometry of such mineral systems can be determined, thus identifying whether it is a porphyry copper system or some other mineral system. When combined with our geochemical data, we can determine the position of the copper-moly center of the system and design our drill program to efficiently test and define mineralization. We flew ZTEM in July 2013 and the analysis report was received in February 2014.
East Silverbell:
Located northwest of Tucson, Arizona, these claims currently are within the Ironwood Forest National Monument, which was established after the claims were staked and validated by numerous drill holes in addition to extensive technical studies. We plan to ascertain whether the East Silverbell claims possess commercially viable deposits of copper. We hold an option to explore 26 unpatented standard federal lode mining claims with an area of 536.03 acres located in the same region. The optioned mineral claims are owned by JABA US Inc., a corporation in which two of our directors are owners. On April 29, 2008 Liberty Star announced that it had leased, with an option to purchase, three properties from JABA US Inc. in Arizona and Nevada, USA. The properties in Arizona, are part of the Tombstone (and the 26 claims) East Silverbell projects. The option covering the property in Nevada was sold in October, 2008 to NPX Metals, and the proceeds were paid by JABA US Inc. as a loan to Liberty Star. According to the option agreement, Liberty Star can earn up to 100% interest by keeping up annual assessment work and spending $175,000 in exploration expenditures on the properties between April 2008 and January 1, 2011, subject to a Net Smelter Return (NSR) Royalty. This provision has been met for the assessment work and other related expense payments, and even though the work commitment is now in arrears, the option agreement has been maintained over the Tombstone and East Silverbell Claims.
Located approximately 30 miles northwest of Tucson, Arizona, 18 miles from the Avra Valley road off ramp and then 18 miles west, just north of that road on dirt roads (accessible with a 2 wheel drive vehicle), the claims currently are within the Ironwood Forest National Monument, which was created after the claims were staked, underwent detailed geochem and geophysical studies and drilled with numerous drill holes revealing a mineralized body. We plan to ascertain whether the East Silverbell claims possess commercially viable deposits of copper. Due to difficulty of doing work on the Ironwood Forest National Monument, which was created after drill definition of a mineral body on our claims, we are negotiating with an adjacent fee-simple, land-owner on which half of the mineral zone lies, to explore in detail to develop a viable ore body.
The East Silverbell claims are undeveloped. The ESB block of claims were staked circa 1994 about five miles east of the ASARCO Solvent-Extraction-Electro-Winning (SXEW) plant. The East Silverbell claims are directly adjacent and contiguous to the ASARCO Patented (fee simple) lands. Circa 1994 JABA (US) Inc. compiled geophysics -consisting of existing, widely spaced airborne magnetics, collected soil and vegetation geochemical samples, performed detailed photo interpretation from high resolution color aerial photography, mapped surface geology, breccia pipes and performed detailed mapping and interpretation of leached capping and performed very closely spaced man borne magnetic surveys over alteration and projection of the edge of the Silverbell caldera and associated mineral belt that includes the Silverbell porphyry copper mines that could be seen on the color air photos. The surface magnetic survey was interpreted by geophysicist Edward DeRidder, who pointed out a magnetic low that he interpreted as a porphyry copper magnetic low. Subsequently, north-south Induced Polarization (IP) lines were run and interpreted by Zonge Engineering, to show a sulfide response at 900 to 1,000 feet below the surface. All of this data was plotted in 3D images showing overlapping and mutually reinforcing geochemical, ground magnetic and IP geophysics, and geologic- alteration mapped anomalies. Half of this responsive area lies on the adjacent ASARCO ground and half lies on JABA (US) ground. Subsequent to these studies, the ground was lease-optioned to Valarie Gold Exploration Inc., (Valarie) a Canadian exploration company. They drilled 6 holes to a predetermined depth of 600 feet, using a rotary drill and recovered drill chips, sampled at 5 foot intervals. The drilling penetrated and recovered classic chalcocite leached capping typical of that material occurring over ore bodies in the Silverbell mines of North Silverbell, El Tiro and Oxide open pit mines. Geochemical assays of the cuttings showed three to four relict ghost copper enriched zones to the final arbitrary depth of six hundred feet. These holes did not penetrate the leached chalcocite capping rock and did not enter sulfides. Valarie relinquished their lease. Later Kennecott Copper Corp. optioned the claims and drilled three rotary drill holes. Of these holes two twisted off the drill bits at shallow depth and had to be abandoned while in the leached chalcocite capping. One hole penetrated to a depth of 1,000 feet but poor sampling procedures negated any meaningful data from this hole, when primary samples were irretrievably lost. These two drill attempts were predictably not successful but geochemistry from the Valarie drill holes did show shadow geochemical copper enrichment indicating chalcocite enrichment in the sulfide blanket below and the Kennecott effort did recover some chalcocite (enriched copper sulfide) circa 1998 the Ironwood Forrest National Monument was created over JABA’s valid mining claims. The surface of these claims cannot be used to extract the copper mineral body below by the open pit mining method. Since half of the geophysically, geochemically, geologically, alteration indicated mineral body is located on ASARCO patented land and because the ASARCO SXEW plant is only five miles to the west, it is believed that this mineral body can be extracted from the ASARCO property by underground - in situ leach technology at some point in the future. To date we have not identified any ore reserves on the East Silverbell Project.
We have not found any mineral resources on any of our claims.
Sampling Protocols for all projects
Liberty Star trains all employees/contractors conducting sample collection by use of a handheld digital mobile device ( X-ray Fluorescence Analyzer) to record accurate analysis of 31 elements including gold, silver copper, molybdenum, uranium, thorium, manganese and other elements from each in situ sample. The XRF device leads the sampler through a series of dropdown menu windows with various description capabilities and the ability to record a GPS coordinate of the location. Data from the XRF is uploaded to our computer database daily. The X-ray (XRF) identified by Mr. Briscoe about 25 years ago is now a recognized and valuable portable assay tool.
Liberty Star also uses professionally created video training to teach samplers the proper techniques of obtaining a representative sample whether it is soil, rock or vegetation and instruction on avoiding cross contamination between samples. After samples are collected they are stored in a secure location under lock and key until they are shipped via FedEx or UPS using chain of custody guidelines to a professional sample prep lab in Washoe Valley, Nevada run by Shea Clark Smith, MSc/ Geochemist. Mr. Smith prepares the samples by crushing, mixing, pulverizing and homogenizing. Then a 200 gram sample is scientifically split for shipment to a Certified Assay Laboratory of each original sample. Standards, blanks and duplicates are added to the sample stream, including such Quality Assurance Quality Control (QA/QC) every 10th assay sample is re-assayed and a blind standard is inserted every tenth sample interval, before being sent to a certified assay lab using ICP-MS analysis the samples are randomized. Once Liberty Star gets the analysis data back from the laboratory, checks for quality assurance and control are made using data from the blanks, standards and duplicates. The results are sent to Liberty Star by email and a paper copy mailed for verification and as a permanent record. The data are then de- randomized and processed for interpretation by various software programs designed for the purpose.
ITEM 3.