Item 2. Property
The Company has interests in nine different geothermal resource areas in the Western United States and one area in Guatemala, Central America. The resource areas in the United States are located in Idaho (1), Oregon (2), and Nevada (5) and California (1). The properties include the Raft River area located in southeastern Idaho, the two properties located in southeastern Oregon, and five properties in northwestern Nevada, the WGP Geysers area located in northern California at the Geysers, and the El Ceibillo area located in central Guatemala (near Guatemala City).
The Company operates three commercial power plants located in the Western United States. The Raft River Unit I, Idaho plant became commercially operational on January 3, 2008. The Neal Hot Springs, Oregon plant achieved commercial operation on November 16, 2012. The San Emidio, Nevada plant was acquired in May 2008. The acquired facility was replaced with a new power plant, located on private land that became commercially operational in May 2012.
Neal Hot Springs, Oregon
Neal Hot Springs is a geothermal resource located in Eastern Oregon. The Company acquired the Neal Hot Springs geothermal energy and surface
rights in September 2006. A 22 megawatt (net) annual average geothermal power plant was developed by USG Oregon LLC, and is currently in operation at this site. The project has four production wells and nine injection wells at the project.
Significant Lease/Royalty Terms
Approximately 521 acres of geothermal rights at Neal Hot Springs are owned by Cyprus Gold Exploration Corporation (50%), JR Land and Livestock (25%), and USG Oregon LLC (25%). Royalty for the two private leases is paid on the gross revenue from energy sales paid by Idaho Power Company under the PPA. The JR Land & Livestock lease has a 3% royalty for the first five years of production, increases to 4% for years 6-15, and then to 5% for the remainder of the lease term. The Cyprus lease establishes a 2% royalty for the first ten years and then escalates to 3% for the remainder of the lease.
San Emidio, Nevada
In 2008, the Company acquired a 3.6 megawatt operating geothermal power plant and all associated private and federal geothermal leases and certain ground water rights in the San Emidio Valley and at Gerlach, Nevada. The San Emidio project is located approximately 75 air miles north of Reno, Nevada. The Gerlach property is locate immediately northwest of Gerlach Nevada. The San Emidio assets include the geothermal power project, 17,846 (27.9 square miles) acres of geothermal leases, and ground water rights used for cooling water. The Gerlach assets include 2,986 acres (4.7 square miles) of BLM and private geothermal leases. The Gerlach leases are located along a geologic structure known to host geothermal features including the Great Boiling Spring and the Fly Ranch Geyser.
In 2012, USG completed the San Emidio Phase I repower project; a 9.0 megawatt (net) annual average facility located on private land owned by USG Nevada. Phase I repowering was completed utilizing the existing production and injection wells.
Significant Lease/Royalty Terms
A geothermal unit was established for the operating project by the Company in 2010 with the approval and oversight of the Bureau of Land Management. The Unit allows USG Nevada LLC to allocate expenses among the federal and private geothermal leases within the Unit and legally establishes the percentage of private and federal land that contributes to geothermal production known as the Participating Area. The Participating Area at San Emidio totals 583.68 acres and includes 336.93 acres (57.7%) of private property and 246.75 acres (42.3%) of federally managed land.
The lease agreement with the Kosmos Company establishes a 1.75% royalty on gross electricity sales for the first 120 months of production and 3.5% royalty thereafter. The federal leases have a 10% netback royalty. The netback calculation is based on gross electricity sales less the transmission and generation cost deductions. In 2014 the equivalent federal royalty is 1.6% of gross electricity sales.
Raft River, Idaho
The Raft River project comprises two packages of property that include the Raft River Energy I LLC (“RREI”) leases, and leases held by the Company. RREI operates the Unit I facility at Raft River which became commercially operational on January 3, 2008. Leases assigned to RREI by the Company included eight private geothermal leases, one of which is owned by the Company. The Company retains direct control over four private leases and one federal lease outside the RREI position.
All of the leases may be extended indefinitely as long as production is maintained from the lease either individually or as a geothermal unit. The Company and RREI hold a total of 6,002 acres; 1,686 acres of federal geothermal rights and 4,316 acres of private leases.
Significant Lease/Royalty Terms
The private leases have 10 year primary terms with the rights of unitization and extensions. Private leases have varying royalty rates commensurate with other federal and private leases held by the Company and our subsidiaries. Most of the private leases are subject to a 10% netback royalty which is based on gross electricity sales less the transmission and generation cost deductions. In 2014, USG’s equivalent federal netback royalty was equivalent to 1.6% of gross electricity sales where it was applied.
The federal lease, established on August 1, 2007, is held by the Company and has a primary term of 10 years. After the primary term, The Company has the right to extend the contract in accordance with regulation 43 CFR subpart 3207. The royalty under the lease is 1.75% of gross proceeds for the first 10 years of production and 3.5% thereafter. At Raft River, royalty rates have not exceeded rental payments.
A private geothermal unit was established for the operating project in December 2015. The Unit establishes the geologic production area. A Participating Area of 1640 was established in May 2015. The Participating Areea is that area that is reasonably expected to contribute to power production. Production is allocated based on the percentage of each property in relation to the entire Participating Area.
El Ceibillo, Republic of Guatemala
The Company successfully acquired a geothermal energy rights concession in the Republic of Guatemala, which was granted by the Guatemalan government. It consists of 24,710 acres (100 square kilometers) and is located 14 miles southwest of Guatemala City, the capital. The concession provides sub-surface geothermal rights only, and does not provide access to the surface that is owned by private landowners. The concession had an initial five year term for the development and construction of a power plant, which was extended by three years in 2015. There are no royalties due to the government for use of the geothermal resource.
The primary area of interest within the concession is the El Ceibillo project, located near the town of Amatitlan, in a developed industrial zone immediately adjacent to the highway that connects Guatemala City to the Port of San Jose on the Pacific coast. An office and staff are located in Guatemala City, and 80 acres of surface land within the concession area is under lease.
Crescent Valley and Lee Hot Springs, Nevada
On December 16, 2014, U.S. Geothermal completed the acquisition of EPR and EPR’s lease holdings at Crescent Valley and Lee Hot Springs, Nevada.
The Crescent Valley property encompasses 21,319 acres of private and federal geothermal resources leased by EPR and 2,640 acres of geothermal resources leased by U.S. Geothermal Inc. Upon closing the acquisition the Company began drilling the projects first production well. The well is located on private surface and mineral estate in section 3, Township 28 North Range 49 East and is intended to qualify potential future power plant construction for the 30% renewable energy investment tax credit. The Crescent Valley property includes 55 independent leases ranging in size from 10 acres to 4,100 acres and an average parcel size of 314 acres. EPR’s private leases have a 15 year term with annual rent that escalates at year five and at year 10.
Significant Lease/Royalty Terms
Annual lease rental payment obligations at Crescent Valley are approximately $109,138 and royalty obligations during potential future power production vary for private leases from 3% to 5% of gross sales. Royalty rates for federal geothermal leases are 1.75% of gross revenue for the first 10 years and 3.5% thereafter.
The Lee Hot Springs property encompasses 2,560 acres of federal lands located approximately 17 miles south of Fallon, NV. The federal leases are N-73679 and N-73930. The annual rental is $2,560 and a standard federal royalty is 1.75% of gross revenue for the first 10 years and 3.5% thereafter.
WGP Geysers, California
Western GeoPower Inc. (“WGP”) is a wholly owned subsidiary of U.S. Geothermal Inc. WGP’s property includes surface and geothermal rights that consist of two federal geothermal leases (CA-51000 & CA-51001), and one private geothermal lease with no expiration. The total project acreage is 3,808 acres. The site has been re-permitted with Sonoma County for construction and operation of up to a 38.5 megawatt geothermal power plant.
The project is located at the site of the former Pacific Gas and Electric (PG&E) Unit 15 project, which once had a 62 megawatt (gross) capacity power plant. During 10 years of operation, the PG&E plant declined in production to approximately 38 megawatts before it was shut down in l989 and all of the wells were plugged and abandoned. The project is located within the broader Geysers geothermal field which covers a total of approximately 20,000 acres in the Mayacamas Mountains in Sonoma County and Lake County, California, approximately 75 miles north of San Francisco. The Geysers geothermal resource is the largest producing geothermal field in the world, and has been generating greater than 850 megawatts of power for more than 30 years.
Significant Lease/Royalty Terms
There is no annual rental or royalty for the 421 acre private parcel owned by WGP. The Abril Ranch rental payment for 410 acres of surface and geothermal rights was $16,783 in 2014 and is annually adjusted by the San Francisco/San Jose CPI index. The Filly-Brown properties include 214 acres of surface access rights and 50% of the mineral rights owned by Western GeoPower. The Geothermal royalty payments for Abril Ranch are being adjusted to 4.25% of gross revenue at a power price of $100/MW or less and is consistent with market conditions.
Vale Butte, Oregon
Vale Butte and the Vale Butte Geothermal Resource Area is located in Eastern Oregon and borders the east side of the City of Vale. In the first quarter of 2014, U.S. Geothermal Inc. acquired 393 acres of geothermal energy and surface rights under six (6) leases. The leased area is immediately adjacent to the City of Vale and includes private surface and mineral estate, Vale City owned resources and Malheur County owned resources. The Vale Butte resource area has been used for direct use heating for many years. Geochemical analysis indicates a potential reservoir temperature of 311ºF to 320ºF and historical drilling in the area has encountered ground (rock) temperatures in excess of 300°F. Fault structures and hydrologic characteristics have been identified that are similar to the Neal Hot Springs site, and those geologic structures are contained within the acquired leases.
Significant Lease/Royalty Terms
Four private leases and the Vale City lease are issued for a period of 10 years with renewal options while the Malheur County lease was issued for a period of 40 years with renewal options. The lease agreements are consistent in terms of financial and development requirements and have a 2% royalty payment on actual energy paid for by Idaho Power for the first 10 years of commercial production.
Boise Administration Office, Idaho
On August 12, 2013, the Company signed a five year lease agreement for office space and janitorial services. The lease payments are due in monthly installments starting February 1, 2014. The monthly payments that begin February 1, 2014 have two components which include a base rate of $3,234 that is not subject to increase and a rate beginning at $6,418 that is adjusted annually according to the cost of living index. The contract includes a five year extension option.
Land and Leases
The Company and its domestic subsidiaries control 65,434 acres of land in California, Idaho, Nevada, and Oregon. U.S. Geothermal owns approximately 2,536 acres of surface rights and 2,539 acres of geothermal rights while approximately 64,064 acres are controlled through geothermal development leases signed with the BLM, local governmental entities and private owners. The company’s average per acre lease rate is $9.00 per acre/year.
BLM Leases
The Company and its subsidiaries have 26 federal geothermal leases issued in accordance with the Geothermal Steam Act by the BLM.
BLM geothermal leases grant the lessee the right to drill for, extract, produce, remove, utilize, sell, and dispose of geothermal resources from the leased lands, along with the right to build and maintain necessary improvements on the leased land. Ownership of the geothermal resources and other minerals beneath the land is retained in the federal mineral estate. The geothermal lease grants exclusive geothermal development rights. The BLM will, through authority granted by federal regulations and planning requirements, ensure that other federal activities do not unreasonably interfere with the geothermal lessee’s uses of the same land. Most federal leases include stipulations and are governed by federal regulations, that require geothermal development to be conducted in a workmanlike manner and in accordance with all applicable laws and BLM directives and to take all actions required by the BLM to protect the surface of and the environment surrounding the land. Surface protections and environmental protection requirements include protection of water quality, cultural and archeological resources, threatened or endangered plants or animals, migratory birds, wildlife, and visual quality standards.
The BLM also authorizes geothermal lessees to enter into unit agreements on federal lands to cooperatively develop a geothermal resource. The BLM reserves the right to specify rates of development and to require the geothermal lessee to commit to a unitization agreement.
Typical BLM leases have a primary term of ten years and may be renewed as long as geothermal resources are being explored. If resources are produced or utilized in commercial quantities, the lease can be renewed for up to forty years. If at the end of the forty-year period geothermal steam is still being produced or utilized in commercial quantities and the lands are not needed for other purposes, the geothermal lessee will have a preferential right to renew the lease for a second forty-year term, under terms and conditions as the BLM deems appropriate. During the lease term the lessee is required to pay an annual per acre rental fee. The fee escalates according to a schedule until geothermal production begins. After production has commenced, the geothermal lessee is required to pay royalties on the amount or value of energy production, and any by-products that may be derived from geothermal production.
BLM leases issued after August 8, 2005 (The Energy Policy Act of 2005) also have a primary term of ten years. If the geothermal lessee does not reach commercial production within the primary term, the BLM may grant two five-year extensions. If the lessee is drilling a well for the purposes of commercial production, the lease may be extended for five years and thereafter as long as steam is being produced and used in commercial quantities the lease may be extended for up to thirty-five years. If, at the end of the extended thirty-five year term, geothermal steam is still being produced or utilized in commercial quantities and the lands are not needed for other purposes, the geothermal lessee will have a preferential right to renew the lease under terms and conditions as the BLM deems appropriate.
BLM leases are issued either competitively or non-competitively. Under the Energy Policy Act of 2005 Lessees who obtain leases issued through a non-competitive process pay an annual rental fee equal to $1.00 per acre for the first ten years and $5.00 per acre each year thereafter. Lessees who obtain a lease through a competitive bid process pay a rental of $2.00 per acre for the first year, $3.00 per acre for the second through tenth year and $5.00 per acre each year thereafter. For BLM leases issued, effective, or pending on August 8, 2005, royalty rates are fixed between 1.0 -2.5% of the gross proceeds from the sale of electricity during the first ten years of production under the lease.
The royalty rate set by the BLM for geothermal resources produced for the commercial generation of electricity but not sold in an arm’s length transaction is 1.75% for the first ten years of production and 3.5% thereafter. The royalty rate for geothermal resources sold by the geothermal lessee or an affiliate in an arm’s length transaction is 10.0% of the gross proceeds from the arm’s length sale.
Private Geothermal Leases
U.S. Geothermal and its subsidiaries hold geothermal rights through leases with 73 individuals and companies. The leases authorize geothermal development and operations on privately owned geothermal estates. In some cases, the surface ownership is split from the mineral or geothermal ownership.
Geothermal leases grant the exclusive right and privilege to drill for, produce, extract, take and remove water, brine, steam, steam power, minerals (other than oil), salts, chemicals, gases (other than gases associated with oil), and other products produced or extracted through geothermal development. The Company and its project subsidiaries are also granted non-exclusive rights pertaining to the construction and operation of plants, structures, and facilities on the leased land. The leases also grant the right to dispose of waste brine and other waste products as well as the right to re-inject into the leased land water, brine, steam, and gases in a well or wells for the purpose of maintaining or restoring pressure in the productive zones beneath the leased land or other land in the vicinity.
Lessors reserve the right to conduct other activities on the leased land in a manner that does not unreasonably interfere with the geothermal lessee’s uses of the same land. Activities include agricultural use (farming or grazing), recreational use and other energy developments. Geothermal leases are typically issued for a primary term of 10 years and continue for as long as leased products are being produced or the lessee is drilling, exploring, extracting, processing, or reworking operations on the leased land.
Lease payments typically include annual rental that is based on a rate per acre under lease and royalty payments on gross revenue from the generation of electricity. Leases also include a provision for royalty payment on all revenue from geothermal by-products. Leases typically have requirements for drilling, extraction or processing operations on the leased land within the primary term or to conduct operations with reasonable diligence until lease products have been found, extracted and processed in quantities deemed “paying quantities” by the lessee. The lessee has the right at any time within the primary term to terminate the lease and surrender the relevant land. If the lessee has not commenced operations on leased land within the primary term, the annual rentals typically increase. The purpose of the increasing annual rental is to encourage development which, in some cases may generate higher payment to the lessor in the form of monthly royalty.
Our leases typically require the lessee to carry insurance, conduct operations in accordance with all local, state, and federal regulations, prevent waste, protect environmental quality, and promptly address any default by lessee. The lessor and lessee are protected from automatic lease termination through a notice requirement which must be received by the lessee by certified mail, and a 30 day period in which the lessee must make diligent efforts to correct the alleged default.
Geothermal Development Concession in Guatemala
U.S. Geothermal Guatemala S.A. has acquired a 24,700 acre geothermal concession from the Ministry of Energy and Mines Guatemala C.A. The site is located 12.5 miles southwest of Guatemala City and 2.5 miles west southwest of the City of Amatitlan. The geothermal concession grants the rights for subsurface geothermal development, and established milestones for development and production. The Company has negotiated and acquired a surface lease from one landowner and controls 80 acres enabling geothermal development. The lease is similar in term and conditions to our leases with private landowners in the United States for surface fee land.
Item 3.