ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
Facilities
Our office in Dallas consists of 11,847 square feet of leased office space. The operating partnership owns a field office in Hooker, Oklahoma.
Properties
We own two categories of properties: Royalty Properties and Net Profits Interests (“NPIs”).
Royalty Properties
We own Royalty Properties representing producing and nonproducing mineral, royalty, overriding royalty, net profits and leasehold interests in properties located in 574 counties and parishes in 25 states. Acreage amounts listed herein represent our best estimates based on information provided to us as a royalty owner. Due to the significant number of individual deeds, leases and similar instruments involved in the acquisition and development of the Royalty Properties by us or our predecessors, acreage amounts are subject to change as new information becomes available. In addition, as a royalty owner, our access to information concerning activity and operations on the Royalty Properties is limited. Most of our producing properties are subject to old leases and other contracts pursuant to which we are not entitled to well information. Some of our newer leases provide for access to technical data and other information. We may have limited access to public data in some areas through third party subscription services. Consequently, the exact number of wells producing from or drilling on the Royalty Properties is not determinable. The primary manner by which we will become aware of activity on the Royalty Properties is the receipt of division orders or other correspondence from operators or purchasers.
Acreage Summary
The following table sets forth as of December 31, 2010, a summary of our gross and net, where applicable, acres of mineral, royalty, overriding royalty and leasehold interests, and a compilation of the number of counties and parishes and states in which these interests are located. The majority of our net mineral acres are unleased. Acreage amounts may not add across due to overlapping ownership among categories.
Our net interest in production from royalty, overriding royalty and leasehold interests is based on lease royalty and other third-party contractual terms, which vary from property to property. Consequently, net acreage ownership in these categories is not determinable. Our net interest in production from properties in which we own a royalty or overriding royalty interest may be affected by royalty terms negotiated by the mineral interest owners in such tracts and their lessees. Our interest in the majority of these properties is perpetual in nature. However, a minor portion of the properties are subject to terms and conditions pursuant to which a portion of our interest may terminate upon cessation of production.
The following table sets forth, as of December 31, 2010, the combined summary of total gross and net (where applicable) acres of mineral, royalty, overriding royalty and leasehold interests in each of the states in which these interests are located.
Leasing Activity
The operating partnership and we received cash payments in the amount of $3,862,000 during 2010 attributable to lease bonus on 97 leases and six pooling elections in lands located in 32 counties and parishes in eight states. These leases reflected bonus payments ranging up to $5,010/acre and initial royalty terms ranging up to 26%.
The operating partnership and we received cash payments in the amount of $22,000 during the fourth quarter of 2010 attributable to lease bonus on nine leases of our interests in lands located in five counties and parishes in four states. These leases reflected bonus payments ranging up to $2,000/acre and initial royalty terms ranging up to 25%.
The following table sets forth a summary of leases and pooling elections consummated during 2008 through 2010.
Amounts reflected above may differ from our consolidated financial statements, which are presented on an accrual basis. Some activity may be in Net Profits Interests income. Average royalty and average bonus exclude
amounts attributable to pooling elections. Payments received for gas storage, shut-in and delay rental payments, coal royalty, surface use agreements, litigation judgments and settlement proceeds are reflected in our consolidated financial statements in various categories including, but not limited to, other operating revenues and other income.
Net Profits Interests
We own net profits overriding royalty interests (referred to as the Net Profits Interests, or “NPIs”) in various properties owned by the operating partnership. We receive monthly payments equaling 96.97% of the net profits actually realized by the operating partnership from these properties in the preceding month. In the event costs exceed revenues on a cash basis in a given month for properties subject to a Net Profits Interest, no payment is made and any deficit is accumulated and carried over and reflected in the following month’s calculation of net profit.
We own six separate NPIs. Four were created in connection with the combination in 2003, one immaterial Net Profits Interest was subsequently created and is currently in deficit, and one was acquired with the acquisition of Maecenas Minerals LLP on March 31, 2010. Four of these NPIs have been in a continuous profit status other than temporary deficits in that revenues have exceeded costs and cash payments have been made by the operating partnership to us each quarter. The purpose of such NPIs is to avoid the participation as a working interest or other cost-bearing owner that could result in unrelated business taxable income. Net profits interest payments are not considered unrelated business taxable income for tax purposes. The Net Profits Interest referred to as the Minerals NPI has continuously had costs that exceed revenues. As of December 31, 2010, cumulative operating and development costs presented in the following table, which include amounts equivalent to an interest charge, exceeded cumulative revenues of the Minerals NPI, resulting in a cumulative deficit. All cumulative deficits (which represent cumulative excess of operating and development costs over revenue received) are borne 100% by our general partner until the Minerals NPI recovers the deficit amount. Once in profit status, we will receive the Net Profits Interest payments attributable to these properties. Our consolidated financial statements do not reflect activity attributable to properties subject to NPIs that are in a deficit status. Consequently, net profits interest payments, production sales volumes and prices, and oil and natural gas reserves set forth in other portions of this annual report do not reflect amounts attributable to the Minerals NPI, which includes all of the operating partnership’s Fayetteville Shale working interest properties in Arkansas.
The following tables set forth cash receipts and disbursements, production volumes and reserves attributable to the Minerals NPI from inception through 2005 and the calendar years 2006 through 2010.
The revenue amounts, the production volumes, and the proved reserves presented include only properties producing revenue. The development cost amounts pertain to more properties than the properties producing revenue due to timing differences between operating partnership expenditures and oil and natural gas production and payments to the operating partnership.
The indicated prices set forth above are calculated by dividing each year’s gross revenues for each product by the production volume of the corresponding product. Cash received for revenue includes minor amounts of non-product revenue. Such calculation does not necessarily reflect contractual terms for sales and may be affected by transportation costs, location differentials, quality and gravity adjustments and timing differences between production and cash receipts, including release of suspended funds, initial payments for accumulated sales, or prior period adjustments.
(1) Based on 12-month unweighted arithmetic average of the first day-of-the-month price of oil and natural gas in 2009 forward, otherwise based on year-end pricing of oil and natural gas
Amounts in the above tables reflect the operating partnership’s ownership of the subject properties. Net Profits Interest payments to us, if any, will equal 96.97% of the cumulative net profits actually received by the operating partnership attributable to the subject properties. The above production sales volumes, indicated prices, oil and natural gas reserves, and financial information attributable to the Minerals NPI may not be indicative of future results of the Minerals NPI and may not indicate when the deficit status may end and when NPI payments may begin from the Minerals NPI.
The Minerals NPI includes numerous opportunities for the operating partnership to participate as a working interest owner in drilling activity on lands in which we owned a mineral or royalty interest as of the date such Minerals NPI was created. Most of these opportunities are evidenced by a contractual option, but not the obligation, to participate in activity located in defined lands and leases, although some arise by non-contractual means or by operation of law. With regard to the opportunities evidenced by a contractual option, the operating partnership’s decision to exercise these options and participate as a working interest owner is made on a well-by-well basis and only in the event a third party proposes to drill a well subject to the contractual option. With regard to the opportunities to participate as a working interest owner that arise non-contractually or by operation of law, we obtain or are provided those opportunities due to the actions of persons that we do not control. Thus, we are unable to project when wells may be drilled, whether the operating partnership may elect to participate, or otherwise end up participating, in such drilling or the magnitude of the corresponding investment, either individually or in the aggregate, with respect to the Minerals NPI. In the event the operating partnership
does elect to participate pursuant to these options, or otherwise ends up so participating per force of certain non-contractual relationships or by operation of law, the Minerals NPI deficit balance is likely to increase. Regardless of the operating partnership’s future voluntary or involuntary participation, we believe initial net profits interest payments made upon the Minerals NPI’s first reaching profit status, if any, will be insignificant due to our expectation that the operating partnership will continue to incur development expenditures for at least the next five years. See the discussion under “Drilling Activity” below for additional information on some of these working interest participation options and possibilities.
Acreage Summary
The following tables set forth, as of December 31, 2010, information concerning properties owned by the operating partnership and subject to the NPIs, including the Minerals NPI properties. Acreage amounts listed under “Leasehold” reflect gross acres leased by the operating partnership and the working interest share (net acres) in those properties. Acreage amounts listed under “Mineral” reflect gross acres in which the operating partnership owns a mineral interest and the undivided mineral interest (net acres) in those properties. The operating partnership’s interest in these properties may be unleased, leased by others or a combination thereof. Acreage amounts may not add across due to overlapping ownership among categories. In addition to amounts listed below, the operating partnership owns interests limited to certain wellbores located on lands in which we own mineral, royalty or leasehold interests. The acreage amounts associated with the wellbore interests are included in Royalty Properties Acreage Summary and not in the table below.
The following table reflects the states in which the acreage amounts listed above are located.
The operating partnership owns working interests below the currently producing horizons in 47,360 gross/46,960 net acres in Texas County, Oklahoma. The operating partnership has from time to time farmed out its leasehold interests in portions of these lands, reserving an overriding royalty interest therein, and will consider additional exploration or development of these lands as circumstances warrant. The leasehold acreage includes all of the acreage in the Fayetteville Shale properties of Arkansas in which we have the right to participate.
Costs Incurred
The following table sets forth information regarding 100% of the costs incurred on a cash basis by the operating partnership during the periods indicated in connection with the properties underlying the NPIs.
(1) The years ended December 31, 2008, 2009 and 2010 include $4,793,000, $4,348,000 and $3,249,000, respectively, attributable to NPIs not yet in pay status.
Productive Well Summary
The following table sets forth, as of December 31, 2010, the combined number of producing wells on the properties subject to the NPIs, including the Minerals NPI. Gross wells refer to wells in which a working interest is owned. Net wells are determined by multiplying gross wells by the working interest in those wells.
(1) Multiple well units operated by someone other than the operating partnership and in which we own NPIs are included as one gross well.
Drilling Activity
We received division orders for or otherwise identified 348 new wells completed on our Royalty Properties in 10 states during 2010. Fifty-seven new wells were completed on our NPI properties in 2010. We identified eight wells that were completed in prior years, and an additional 20 wells were in various stages of drilling or completion operations at year-end. Selected new wells and the royalty interests owned by us and the working and net revenue interests owned by the operating partnership are summarized below.
This table does not include wells drilled in the Fayetteville Shale trend as they are detailed in a subsequent discussion and table.
(1) WI means the working interest owned by the operating partnership and subject to the Net Profits Interest.
(2) NRI means the net revenue interest attributable to our royalty interest or to the operating partnership’s royalty and working interest, which is subject to the Net Profits Interest.
Additional information concerning selected recent activity is summarized below:
Fayetteville Shale Trend of Northern Arkansas-We own varying undivided perpetual mineral interests totaling 23,336/11,464 gross/net acres located in Cleburne, Conway, Faulkner, Franklin, Johnson, Pope, Van Buren, and White counties, Arkansas in an area commonly referred to as the “Fayetteville Shale” trend of the Arkoma Basin. Two hundred eighty-nine wells have been permitted on the lands as of December 31, 2010, of which the operating partnership has an interest in 182. In total, 254 wells had been spud, 219 had been completed as producers and 20 were in various stages of drilling or completion operations. Wells that have been proposed to be drilled by the operator but for which permits have not yet been issued by the Arkansas Oil & Gas Commission are not reflected in this number. Available test results for wells completed in 2010, along with ownership interests owned by us and interests owned by the operating partnership subject to the Minerals NPI, are summarized in the following table.
(1) WI means the working interest owned by the operating partnership and subject to the Minerals NPI.
(2) NRI means the net revenue interest attributable to our royalty interest or to the operating partnership’s royalty and working interest, which is subject to the Minerals NPI.
Set forth below is a summary of Fayetteville Shale activity through December 31, 2010 for wells in which we have a royalty or Net Profits Interest. This includes wells subject to the Minerals NPI, which is currently in deficit status.
(1) Wells in Pay Status means wells for which revenue was initially received during the indicated period.
Our estimated proved reserves as of December 31, 2010, include reserves attributable to our royalty interest in 195 wells totaling 4.05 bcf. Proved reserves attributable to working interests owned by the operating partnership totaled 3.74 bcf in 127 wells. These estimates only include wells for which test rates have been obtained.
Net cash receipts for the Royalty Properties attributable to interests in these lands totaled $2,609,000 in 2010 from 159 wells. Net cash receipts for the Minerals NPI properties attributable to interests in these lands totaled $2,458,000 in 2010 from 85 wells. Fourth quarter net cash receipts for the Royalty Properties and the Minerals NPI properties totaled $706,000 from 158 wells and $578,000 from 83 wells, respectively.
Horizontal Bakken, Williston Basin-We own varying undivided perpetual mineral interests totaling 70,390/8,905 gross/net acres located in Burke, Divide, Dunn, McKenzie, Mountrail and Williams Counties, North Dakota. Operators active in this area include Continental Resources, EOG Resources, Hess Corporation, Marathon Oil Company, and Whiting Oil & Gas. There have been a total of 62 wells permitted on these lands as of December 31, 2010 with 97 completed as producers. In virtually all cases we have elected not to lease our lands and not to pay our share of well costs, thus becoming a non-consenting mineral owner. According to North Dakota law, non-consenting owners receive the average royalty rate from the date of first production and back-in for their full working interest after the operator has recovered 150% of drilling and completion costs. Once 150% payout occurs, the working interest will be owned by the operating partnership and subject to the Minerals NPI. Non-consenting owners are not entitled to well data other than public information available from the North Dakota Industrial Commission. As of December 31, 2010, six of these wells had achieved 150% payout.
Set forth below is a summary of Horizontal Bakken activity through December 31, 2010 for wells in which we have a royalty or Net Profits Interest. This includes wells subject to the Minerals NPI, which is currently in a deficit status.
(1) Wells in Pay Status means wells for which revenue was initially received during the indicated period.
Appalachian Basin-We own varying undivided perpetual mineral interests in approximately 31,000/24,000 gross/net acres in 19 counties in southern New York and northern Pennsylvania. Approximately 75% of these net acres are located in eastern Allegany and western Steuben Counties, New York, an area which some industry press reports suggest may be prospective for gas production from unconventional reservoirs, including the Marcellus Shale. The New York State Department of Environmental Conservation has restricted permitting in the Marcellus shale pending a regulatory review of high-volume hydraulic fracturing practices. Development of these natural gas resources will be limited until this regulatory issue has been resolved. We continue to monitor industry activity and encourage dialogue with industry participants to determine the proper course of action regarding our interests in this area.
Barnett Shale-We own producing and nonproducing mineral and royalty interests located in Tarrant County, Texas. The properties consist of varying undivided mineral and overriding royalty interests in six tracts totaling approximately 1,820 acres in what is commonly referred to as the Core Area of the Barnett Shale Trend. All of the mineral interests were leased in 2003 to a predecessor of Chesapeake Energy Corporation, the current operator of and majority working interest owner in the properties. Approximately 577 acres of the subject lands are pooled into six units totaling 1,800 acres; approximately 1,129 acres are developed on a lease basis and the remaining lands are leased but not pooled or drilled upon. As of December 31, 2010, 40 wells were drilled from
11 padsites located on or adjacent to the properties, of which 32 wells were completed for production and eight were drilled but not yet completed or connected to a pipeline. Permits to drill four additional wells on the properties had been issued by regulatory agencies.
Granite Wash, Texas Panhandle-We own varying undivided perpetual mineral interests totaling 16,336/2,559 gross/net acres in Hemphill, Roberts and Wheeler Counties, Texas. Operators active in this area include Apache Corporation, Chesapeake Operating, Forest Oil, Linn Energy, Newfield Exploration, and QEP Resources. In 2010, we leased 680 net acres to two parties in two transactions for 25% royalty and total bonus consideration of $2,892,560. As of December 31, 2010, two horizontal well permits had been granted on the leased lands.
Oil and Natural Gas Reserves
The following table reflects the Partnership’s proved developed and total proved reserves at December 31, 2010. The reserves are based on the reports of two independent petroleum engineering consulting firms: Calhoun, Blair & Associates and LaRoche Petroleum Consultants, Ltd. As described above, the Partnership does not have information that would be available to a company with oil and natural gas operations because detailed information is not generally available to owners of royalty interests. The Partnership’s engineering manager gathers production information and provides such information to our two independent engineering consulting firms who extrapolate from such information estimates of the reserves attributable to the Royalty Properties and NPIs based on their expertise in the oil and natural gas fields where the Royalty Properties and NPIs are situated, as well as publicly available information. Ensuring compliance with generally accepted petroleum engineering and evaluation methods and procedures is the responsibility of the Partnership’s engineering manager. Our engineering manager has a bachelor’s degree in Petroleum Engineering from the University of Alberta and has worked in the upstream oil and natural gas business in various capacities since 1996. The engineering manager reports directly to the chief executive officer. Our chief executive officer ensures compliance with SEC guidance. He received his Bachelor of Science degree in Petroleum Engineering from Texas A&M University in 1984 and has been a Registered Professional Engineer in Texas since 1988. Calhoun Blair & Associates is registered with the Engineering Board of the State of Texas and has been engaged in the business of oil and natural gas property evaluation since 1998. LaRoche Petroleum Consultants, Ltd. is registered with the Engineering Board of the State of Texas. The LaRoche Firm has been engaged in the business of oil and natural gas property evaluation since its formation in 1979. Other than those filed with the SEC, our estimated proved reserves have not been filed with or included in any reports to any federal agency. Copies of the reports prepared by Calhoun, Blair & Associates and LaRoche Petroleum Consultants, Ltd. are attached hereto as Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2.
Summary of Oil and Gas Reserves as of Fiscal Year-End
(1) Reserves reflect 96.97% of the corresponding amounts assigned to the operating partnership’s interests in the properties underlying the Net Profits Interests.
(2) Based on year-end oil and natural gas prices
Proved oil and natural gas reserves means the estimated quantities of crude oil, natural gas, and natural gas liquids which geological and engineering data demonstrate with reasonable certainty to be recoverable in future
years from known reservoirs under existing economic and operating conditions, i.e., 12 month unweighted arithmetic average of the first day of the month prices and costs as of the date the estimate is made. Previously, year-end pricing and costs were used. Please see Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Results of Operations for average sales prices.
The Hugoton Field reflected in the Net Profits Interests above is the only significant field, defined as more than 15% of total proved developed reserves. Hugoton Field production (not sales) for the last three years is listed below:
Production by Significant Field
Title to Properties
We believe we have satisfactory title to all of our assets. Record title to essentially all of our assets has undergone the appropriate filings in the jurisdictions in which such assets are located. Title to property may be subject to encumbrances. We believe that none of such encumbrances should materially detract from the value of our properties or from our interest in these properties or should materially interfere with their use in the operation of our business.
ITEM 3.