Item 2. Description of Property
The Company has interests in three areas in the Western United States. These interests include the Raft River area located in southeastern Idaho, the Neal Hot Springs area located in eastern Oregon (near the Idaho/Oregon boarder), and our interests located in northwestern Nevada. The properties in northwestern Nevada include San Emidio, Gerlach and Granite Creek. The Company currently has two commercially operational power plants. Unit I at Raft River became commercially operational on January 3, 2008. The San Emidio plant was acquired in the Empire Acquisition.
REGIONAL LOCATION MAP
Raft River - (Idaho)
The Raft River project, where the company’s geothermal operations are located, is in southeastern Idaho, approximately 55 miles southeast of Burley, the county seat of Cassia County. Burley, population 8,300, is the local agricultural and manufacturing center for the area, providing a full range of light to heavy industrial services.
A commercial airport is located 90 miles to the northeast in Pocatello, Idaho. Pocatello, population 53,000, is a regional center for agriculture, heavy industry (mining, phosphate refining), technology and education with Idaho State University. Malta, a town with a population of approximately 180, is 12 miles north of the project site where basic services, fuel, and groceries are available. Year-round access to the project from Burley is via Interstate Highway 84 south to State Highway 81 south, then east on the Narrows Canyon Road, an improved county road.
The Raft River project currently consists of ten parcels (generally referred to as the U.S. Geothermal Property, the Crank Lease, the Newbold Lease, the Jensen Investments Leases, the Stewart Lease, the Bighorn Mortgage Lease, the Doman Lease, the Griffin Lease, and the Glover Lease) comprising 783.93 acres of fee land and 4,736.79 acres of contiguous leased geothermal rights located on private property in Cassia County, Idaho. All parcels are defined by legal subdivision or by metes and bounds survey description. The ten parcels are as follows:
The U.S. Geothermal Property - Idaho. The U.S. Geothermal Property is comprised of three separate properties that total 783.93 acres: the Vulcan Property, the Elena Corporation Property and the Dewsnup property. The Vulcan Property includes both surface and geothermal rights and consists of two parcels. The first parcel has a total area of approximately 240 acres and three geothermal wells (RRGE-1, RRGP-4 and RRGP-5) are located on this parcel. The second parcel has a total area of approximately 320 acres, and three additional geothermal wells (RRGE-3, RRGI-6 and RRGI-7) are located on this parcel. A fourth well, RRGE-2, although located on the property covered by the Crank lease, was acquired by the company as part of its purchase of the Vulcan Property.
The Elena Property is comprised of surface and geothermal rights to approximately 100 acres of property, excluding the oil and gas rights to the property. The property is contiguous to other properties owned or leased by the company.
The Dewsnup Property is comprised of the surface and geothermal rights to approximately 123.93 acres of property, excluding the oil and gas rights to the property, but including all surface water rights. The property is contiguous to other properties owned or leased by the company.
The Crank Lease. The Crank lease covers approximately 160 acres of mineral and geothermal rights, with right of ingress and egress.
The Newbold Lease. The Newbold lease covers approximately 20 acres of both surface and geothermal rights.
The Jensen Investments Leases. The first Jensen Investments lease covers approximately 2,954.75 acres of geothermal rights only. It is contiguous with the Vulcan Property and property covered by the Crank and Stewart leases. The second Jensen Investments lease covers approximately 44.5 acres of surface and geothermal rights, and is contiguous with property covered by the first Jensen lease.
The Stewart Lease. The Stewart Lease covers approximately 317.54 acres on two adjoining parcels. Parcel 1 contains approximately 159.04 acres and includes surface and geothermal rights. Parcel 2 contains approximately 158.50 acres and only covers surface rights. The underlying geothermal rights for Parcel 2 are subject to the first Jensen Investments Lease.
The Bighorn Mortgage Lease. The Bighorn Mortgage lease covers approximately 280 acres of surface and geothermal rights.
The Doman Lease. The Doman lease covers approximately 640 acres of surface and geothermal rights, excluding oil and gas rights.
The Griffin Lease. The Griffin lease contains approximately 160 acres of geothermal rights.
The Glover Lease. The Glover lease contains approximately 160 acres of geothermal rights.
BLM Lease. The geothermal resources lease agreement with the United States Department of Interior Bureau of Land Management (BLM) was entered into on August 1, 2007. The lease is for approximately 1,685 acres of land located contiguous to the Raft River Property in southeastern Idaho.
Raft River Unit I
Unit I at Raft River became commercially operational on January 3, 2008. As a result of the project financing for Unit I of the Raft River project, the Company has contributed over $17.9 million in cash and property to Raft River Energy I LLC, the Unit I project joint venture company. Raft River Holdings, an affiliate of Goldman Sachs Group, has contributed approximately $34 million to the project. Property assigned to Raft River Energy by the Company includes seven production and injection wells, seven monitoring wells, the Stewart lease, the Crank lease, the Newbold lease, the Doman lease, and the Glover lease. All appropriate permits and contracts have also been assigned to Raft River Energy for Unit I.
Although significant detail has been provided about each specific lease area, the economics of the project is based on the total resource. The reservoir supporting the project encompasses the entire Known Geothermal Resource Area (KGRA), which includes all the property owned or leased by the company at Raft River. All discussions of the economics of the project, including future phases, will be based at the project level rather than at the lease level.
Lease/Royalty Terms
The Crank lease, the Newbold lease, the Jensen Investments leases, the Bighorn Mortgage lease, the Doman lease, the Griffin lease and the Glover lease have royalties payable under the following terms:
(a) 	
Energy produced, saved and used for the generation of electric power, which is then sold by lessee, has a royalty of ten percent (10%) of the net proceeds.
(b) 	
Energy produced, saved and sold by lessee, then used by the purchaser for generation of electric power, has a royalty of ten percent (10%) of the market value.
(c) Energy produced, which is used for any purpose other than the generation of electricity has a royalty of five percent (5%) of the gross proceeds.
The Stewart lease has production royalties payable under the following terms:
(a) 	
Energy produced, saved and sold by the Lessee, then used by the purchaser for generation of electric power, has a royalty of ten percent (10%) of the market value of the electric power.
(b) 	
Energy produced, saved and used for the generation of electric power, which is then sold by Lessee, has a royalty of three percent (3%) of the market value of the electric power.
(c) 	
Energy produced, which is used for any purpose other than the generation of electricity has a royalty of five percent (5%) of the gross proceeds.
No production royalties have been paid to date under any of the leases. All of the leases may be extended indefinitely if production is achieved during the primary term, so long as production is maintained. For each lease other than the Crank Lease (see below), once production is achieved the amounts due annually will be the greater of the production royalty and the minimum payment for the last year of the primary term. All payments under the leases are made annually in advance on the anniversary date of the particular lease. In addition, the following lease and other royalty terms apply to the individual leases:
The Crank Lease. The lease agreement with Janice Crank was originally entered into June 28, 2002, and had a primary term of 5 years. After GTH provided evidence to the lessor that the well (RRGE-2) located on lessor’s property was not owned by the lessor (but instead was included in the Vulcan Property), a new lease was entered into on June 28, 2003, which excluded the ownership of RRGE-2, with a four-year initial term. Advance production royalties (on a June to June basis) are payable under the Crank lease as follows:
Year 1 (Paid June 2002 under original lease): $5,000
Year 2 (Paid June 2003 under original lease): $10,000
Year 3 (Paid June 2004 under renegotiated lease): $10,000
Year 4: (Paid June 2005): $10,000
Year 5: (Paid June 2006): $10,000
Payments for years 2002 through 2006 have been recorded as lease expense. When commercial production is attained, these lease payments can be deducted from future production royalties. For later years, during commercial production, there is a minimum annual production royalty of $18,000. If the initial commercial production from the well is delayed past the primary lease term, we will seek an amendment to extend the primary term to the initial commercial plant production date. The minimum amount that will be payable over the course of the leases is $45,000. Maximum amounts payable will depend on production from the property.
The Newbold Lease. The company leases this property pursuant to a lease agreement with Jay Newbold dated March 1, 2004. The Newbold lease has a primary term of 10 years (through February 28, 2014) and is extended indefinitely so long as production from the geothermal field is maintained. Minimum lease payments are as follows:
Years 1-5: $10.00 per acre or $200 per year
Years 6-10: $15.00 per acre or $300 per year
The minimum amount that will be payable over the course of the lease is $2,500. Maximum amounts payable will depend on royalties on production from the property.
The Jensen Investments Leases. The first Jensen Investments lease was originally with Sergene Jensen, as lessor, is dated July 11, 2002, and has a primary term of 10 years. In September 2005, the property subject to the lease was conveyed and the lease was assumed by Jensen Investments, Inc. Minimum lease payments (on a July to July basis) are as follows:
Years 1-5: $2.50 per acre or $7,386.88 per year
Years 6-10: $3.00 per acre or $8,864.25 per year
The minimum amount that will be payable over the course of the lease is $81,256. Maximum amounts payable will depend on production from the property. The second Jensen Investments lease, with Jensen Investments, Inc., is dated July 12, 2002, and has a primary term of 10 years. Minimum lease payments (on a July to July basis) are as follows:
Years 1-5: $2.50 per acre or $111.25 per year
Years 6-10: $3.00 per acre or $133.50 per year
The minimum amount that will be payable over the course of the lease is $1,224. Maximum amounts payable will depend on royalties on production from the property.
The Stewart Lease. The Stewart lease, with Reid and Ruth Stewart, is dated December 1, 2004, and has a primary term of 30 years. Minimum lease payments are as follows:
Year 1: $8,000
Year 2: $5,000
Year 3-30: $5,000 plus an annual increase of 5% per year.
The minimum amount that will be payable over the course of the lease is $319,614. Maximum amounts payable will depend upon royalties on production from the property.
The Bighorn Mortgage Lease. The Bighorn Mortgage lease, with Bighorn Mortgage Corporation, is dated July 5, 2005, and has a primary term of 10 years. Minimum lease payments are as follows:
Year 1-5: $1,400
Year 6-10: $2,100
The minimum amount that will be payable over the course of the lease is $17,500. Maximum amounts payable will depend upon royalties on production from the property.
The Doman Lease. The Doman lease, with Dale and Ronda Doman, is dated June 23, 2005, and has a primary term of 10 years. Minimum lease payments are as follows:
Year 1-5: $1,600
Year 6-10: $3,200
The minimum amount that will be payable over the course of the lease is $24,000. Maximum amounts payable will depend upon royalties on production from the property.
The Griffin Lease. The Griffin lease, with Michael and Cleo Griffin, Harlow and Pauline Griffin, Douglas and Margaret Griffin, Terry and Sue Griffin, Vincent and Phyllis Jorgensen, and Alice Mae Griffin Shorts, is dated June 23, 2005, and has a primary term of 10 years. Minimum lease payments are as follows:
Year 1: $1,600
Year 2-5: $800
Year 6-10: $1,200
The minimum amount that will be payable over the course of the lease is $10,800. Maximum amounts payable will depend upon royalties on production from the property.
The Glover Lease. The Glover lease, with Philip Glover, is dated January 25, 2006, and has a primary term of 10 years. Minimum lease payments are as follows:
Year 1: $2,100
Year 2-5: $1,600
Year 6-10: $2,400
The minimum amount that will be payable over the course of the lease is $20,500. Maximum amounts payable will depend upon royalties on production from the property.
The total minimum amount payable under all of the leases during their primary terms is $522,393. The above listed lease payments are payable annually in advance, and are current through lease years beginning in 2005. The leases can be renewed for extended periods as long as the power plant continues to produce power.
With the construction of the power plant included in Unit I of the Raft River project, management has increased the general liability and umbrella liability insurance coverage, as deemed necessary. Additional builders risk insurance will be obtained prior to construction of the power plant.
BLM Lease. The lease has a primary term of 10 years. After the primary term, the Company has the right to extend the contract in accordance with regulation 43 CFR subpart 3207. The lease calls for annual payments of $3,502 including processing fees. BLM has the right to terminate the contract upon written notice if the Company does not comply with the terms of the agreement. The royalty rate is based upon 10% of the value of the resource at the well head.
The amounts are calculated according to a formula established by Minerals Management Service (“MMS”).
Neal Hot Springs - (Oregon)
Neal Hot Springs is a promising geothermal resource located in Eastern Oregon. We acquired certain of the Neal Hot Springs geothermal energy and surface rights in September 2006. It is currently under development and no construction decision has been made at this time.
The first production well was completed in June 2008. A step-rate flow test, with pressure buildup, was conducted for 12 hours on July 12, 2008 and resulted in a flowing production temperature of 286.5º F (141º C). The well flowed under artesian pressure at a peak rate of 2,055 gallons per minute (“gpm”) at artesian pressure and then was stepped down to a lower flow rate of 1,210 gpm before it was shut in and the pressure buildup monitored. Richard Holt of Geothermal Science, Inc., an independent geothermal reservoir engineer, calculated a well productivity index of 450 gpm/psi, which is considered to be very high in the geothermal industry. We are currently seeking permits for drilling two additional production wells and one injection well.
Lease/Royalty Terms
Cyprus Gold Exploration Corporation. The lease is for mineral rights for 4,960 acres located in Malheur County, Oregon is dated January 24, 2007, and has a primary term of 10 years, and expires January 24, 2017. Minimum lease payments are as follows:
The agreement defines a royalty rate is based upon 2% of the actual revenue for the first 10 years of commercial production and 3% thereafter.
JR Land and Livestock. The lease is for mineral rights for 4,960 acres located in Malheur County, Oregon is dated January 24, 2007, and has a primary term of 10 years, and expires January 24, 2017. Minimum lease payments are as follows:
The agreement defines a royalty rate is based upon 3% of the gross proceeds for the first 5 years of commercial production, 4% of gross proceeds for the next 10 years, and 5% of the gross proceeds thereafter.
San Emidio - (Nevada)
Effective May 1, 2008, the Company acquired a 3.6 megawatt operating geothermal power plant and approximately 28,358 acres (44.3 square miles) of geothermal energy leases and certain ground water rights all located north of Reno, Nevada. The total purchase price was $16.6 million. The assets are comprised of two locations: the San Emidio assets and the Granite Creek assets. The San Emidio assets are located in the San Emidio Desert, Washoe County, Nevada and include the geothermal power project, approximately 22,944 acres (35.9 square miles) of geothermal leases, and ground water rights used for cooling water. The Granite Creek assets are comprised of approximately 5,414 acres (8.5 square miles) of BLM geothermal leases located about 6 miles north of Gerlach, Nevada along a geologic structure known to host geothermal features including the Great Boiling Spring and the Fly Ranch Geyser.
The 3.6 -megawatt geothermal power plant has been producing power since 1987 and sells electricity to Sierra Pacific Power Corporation under an existing power purchase agreement that extends through 2017. A March 2008 resource assessment of the San Emidio geothermal leases by independent experts Susan Petty and Dennis Trexler of Black Mountain Technology shows a total resource potential of 44 megawatts with a 90% probability factor.
The power plant was constructed in 1986 with commercial power generation beginning in 1987. Deeper wells with higher temperatures were drilled in 1994 to supply the plant after output declined due to cooling of the original, shallow production wells. The current configuration of the plant consists of four 1.2 megawatt Ormat Energy Converters, three injection wells and four production wells. A three cell cooling tower was added in 1998 to improve summer power generation. The plant is connected to the transmission grid via a 60 kilovolt intertie.
San Emidio is our second operating geothermal power plant and is owned by a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company (USG Nevada LLC). The project is a small-scale geothermal power plant selling approximately three megawatts. The plant is approximately 22 years old and employs four binary cycle units. We have conducted a review of the information regarding the project, and we believe that the existing production wells can provide 4,000 to 5,000 gallons per minute of 280 to 300 °F fluid to the current power plant.
Lease/Royalty Terms
BLM Leases. At the closing of the Empire Acquisition, the geothermal leases with the BLM were assigned to the Company. The lease contracts are for approximately 21,905 acres of land and geothermal rights located in the San Emidio Desert, Nevada. The lease contracts have primary terms of 10 years. Per federal regulations applicable for the contracts, the lessee has the option to extend the primary lease term another 40 years if the BLM does not need the land for any other purpose and the lessee is maintaining production at commercial quantities. The leases require the lessee to conduct operations in a manner that minimizes adverse impacts to the environment.
The terms of the BLM contracts are detailed as follows:
The BLM lease contracts require royalty payments for the use of geothermal resources. The rate is based upon 10% of the value of the resource at the well head. The amounts are calculated according to a formula established by MMS.
Kosmos Lease. This is a geothermal resource lease agreement for 1,040 acres with The Kosmos Company (“Kosmos”). The lease has been in effect since October l987 and continues so long as the lessee is drilling for, producing geothermal power, or conducting remedial operations. Under the terms of the first amendment to the lease which became effective upon our acquisition of the San Emidio Geothermal assets, Kosmos will be paid the greater of $8,000 per month or 3.5% of the gross sales price of electric power from fluids produced and injected until the proposed new power plant achieves commercial operation. When a new power plant is installed and producing commercial power, the royalty will change to 1.75% of the gross sales price of electric power sold by the lessee for 120 months and 3.5% thereafter.
Gerlach - (Nevada)
In May 2008, the Company entered into a joint venture agreement with Gerlach Green Energy LLC of Nevada to form a limited liability company named Gerlach Geothermal LLC. The joint venture owns geothermal rights for 3,615 acres (5.6 square miles) located in northwestern Nevada near the town of Gerlach. The target of the joint venture is the exploration of the regional Gerlach geothermal system. The joint venture is located near the Company’s Granite Creek leases that were recently acquired as part of the San Emidio geothermal power plant acquisition.
Lease/Royalty Terms
BLM Leases. The Gerlach Geothermal LLC assets are comprised two BLM geothermal leases and one private lease totaling 3,615 acres. Both BLM leases have a royalty rate is based upon 10% of the value of the resource at the wellhead. The amounts are calculated according to a formula established by MMS. One of the two BLM leases has a second royalty commitment to a third party of 4% of gross revenue for power generation and 5% for direct use based on BTUs consumed at a set comparable price of $7.00 per million BTU of natural gas. The private lease has a 10 year primary term and would receive a royalty of 3% gross revenue for the first 10 years and 4% thereafter.
Granite Creek - (Nevada)
The Granite Creek assets are comprised of approximately 5,414 acres (8.5 square miles) of BLM geothermal leases located about 6 miles north of Gerlach, Nevada along a geologic structure known to host geothermal features including the Great Boiling Spring and the Fly Ranch Geyser.
Lease/Royalty Terms
BLM Leases. The Company has three geothermal lease contracts with the BLM. The lease contracts are for approximately 5,414 acres of land and geothermal water rights located in the northwestern Nevada. The lease contracts have primary terms of 10 years. Per federal regulations applicable for the contracts, the lessee has the option to extend the primary lease term another 40 years if the BLM does not need the land for any other purpose and the lessee is maintaining production at commercial quantities. The leases state annual lease payments of $5,414, not including processing fees, and expire October 31, 2012.
Boise Administration Office - (Idaho)
The Company entered into a 3 year lease contract effective January 1, 2008 through January 31, 2011, for general office space for an executive office located in Boise, Idaho. The lease payments are due in monthly installments that start at $5,637 per month and increase annually to $5,981 per month.
Item 3.