Item 2. Properties
The following descriptions summarize selected information about our 50% interest in the Donlin Gold project located in Alaska, USA and our 50% interest in the Galore Creek project located in British Columbia, Canada. Both of these mineral projects are without known reserves, as defined under SEC Industry Guide 7. Except for subsequent events or as otherwise noted, the disclosure in this Annual Report on Form 10-K of a scientific or technical nature for our mineral properties is based on the following technical reports prepared in accordance with NI 43-101:
(i)“Donlin Creek Gold Project Alaska, USA, NI 43-101 Technical Report on Second Updated Feasibility Study” (“Donlin Gold FS”) for the Donlin Gold project in southwestern Alaska, USA, prepared by AMEC Americas Limited, now known as Amec Foster Wheeler Americas Limited (AMEC), effective date November 18, 2011 and amended and filed on January 20, 2012. The Donlin Gold FS has been filed with the securities regulatory authorities in each province of Canada and with the SEC. Portions of the following information are based on assumptions, qualifications and procedures that are not fully described herein. References should be made to the full text of the Donlin Gold FS which is available for review on EDGAR at www.sec.gov and on SEDAR at www.sedar.com.
(ii)“Galore Creek Copper-Gold Project NI 43-101 Technical Report on Pre-Feasibility Study, British Columbia - Canada” (the PFS) for the Galore Creek project in northwestern British Columbia, Canada, prepared by AMEC, effective date July 27, 2011 and filed on September 12, 2011. The PFS has been filed with the securities regulatory authorities in each province of Canada and with the SEC. Portions of the following information are based on assumptions, qualifications and procedures which are not fully described herein. References should be made to the full text of the PFS which is available for review on EDGAR at www.sec.gov and on SEDAR at www.sedar.com.
Kirk Hanson, P.E., Gordon Seibel, R.M. SME., both of whom are independent Qualified Persons as defined in NI 43-101, have approved the mineral reserves and mineral resources, respectively, included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K related to the Donlin Gold FS. Jay Melnyk, P.Eng., Greg Kulla, P.Geo., both of whom are independent Qualified Persons as defined in NI 43-101, have approved the mineral reserves and mineral resources, respectively, included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K related to the Galore Creek PFS. Clifford Krall, P.E., Manager of Mine Engineering for the Company and a “qualified person” under NI 43-101, has approved the scientific and technical information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
The Donlin Gold FS and the Galore Creek PFS described herein were prepared under the November 2010 version of the CIM Definition Standards. The Qualified Persons who prepared the PFS and the Donlin Gold FS certify that when applying the May 2014 version of the CIM Definition Standards, reserves and resources remain unchanged.
Cautionary Note to U.S. Investors: This section and other sections of this Annual Report on Form 10-K contain the terms “measured mineral resources,” “indicated mineral resources,” “inferred mineral resources,” “proven mineral reserves,” and “probable mineral reserves” as defined in accordance with NI 43-101. Please note the following regarding these terms:
“Proven mineral reserves” and “probable mineral reserves” - The definitions of proven and probable mineral reserves used in NI 43-101 differ from the definitions for “proven reserves” and “probable reserves” as found in SEC Industry Guide 7. Accordingly, our disclosures of mineral reserves herein may not be comparable to information from U.S. companies subject to reporting and disclosure requirements of the SEC.
“Measured mineral resources” and “indicated mineral resources” - we advise U.S. investors that although these terms are recognized and required by Canadian regulations, these terms are not defined in SEC Industry Guide 7 and the SEC does not normally permit such terms to be used in reports and registration statements filed with the SEC. U.S. investors are cautioned not to assume that any part or all of the mineral deposits in these categories will ever be converted into reserves.
“Inferred mineral resources” - we advise U.S. investors that although this term is recognized by Canadian regulations, the SEC does not recognize it. “Inferred mineral resources” have a great amount of uncertainty as to their existence, and great uncertainty as to their economic and legal feasibility. It cannot be assumed that all or any part of an inferred mineral resource will ever be upgraded to a higher category. Under Canadian rules, estimates of inferred mineral resources may not form the basis of a feasibility study or prefeasibility study, except in rare cases. The SEC normally only permits an issuer to report mineralization that does not constitute “reserves” as in-place tonnage and grade without reference to unit measures. U.S. investors are cautioned not to assume that any part or all of an inferred mineral resource exists or is economically or legally minable.
Donlin Gold Project, Alaska
The Donlin Gold project is an advanced-stage gold project held by Donlin Gold, a limited liability company that is owned 50% by our wholly-owned subsidiary, NOVAGOLD Resources Alaska Inc., and 50% by Barrick’s wholly-owned subsidiary, Barrick Gold U.S. Inc.
We entered into the limited liability company agreement with Barrick (“LLC Agreement”) dated December 1, 2007 which provided for the creation of Donlin Gold, which is jointly owned by us and Barrick on a 50/50 basis. Pursuant to the LLC Agreement, we agreed to reimburse Barrick out of future mine production cash flow for a portion of Barrick’s prior expenditures in the Donlin Gold project. As of November 30, 2017, the promissory note, including accrued interest, amounted to approximately $90 million. Funding for the project is currently shared by both parties on a 50/50 basis.
Except for events subsequent to the Donlin Gold FS, including the information contained under the heading “Item 1, Recent Developments - Donlin Gold,” or as otherwise stated or implied, the scientific and technical information regarding the Donlin Gold project in this Annual Report on Form 10-K is based on the Donlin Gold FS.
Property Description and Location
The Donlin Gold property is located in the Kuskokwim region of southwestern Alaska on private, Alaska Native-owned mineral and surface land and Alaska state mining claims. The property is under lease (the “Mining Lease”) for subsurface rights from Calista Corporation (“Calista”) and surface rights (the “Surface Use Agreement”) from The Kuskokwim Corporation (TKC), two Alaska Native corporations. Calista is one of 13 regional Alaska Native corporations established as part of the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act of 1971 (ANCSA) and under ANCSA has title to the subsurface estate in the region. TKC was formed in 1977 when the ANCSA village corporations of Lower Kalskag, Upper Kalskag, Aniak, Chuathbaluk, Napaimute, Crooked Creek, Red Devil, Georgetown, Sleetmute and Stony River, which are located along the middle region of the Kuskokwim River, merged. Under ANCSA, TKC has title to extensive surface estate in the region, including most of the project lands. The property hosts a gold deposit currently estimated at 33.8 million ounces of proven and probable reserves averaging 2.09 grams per tonne. We believe that significant exploration potential remains in the Donlin Gold district, with prospects to increase mine life and/or justify future production expansions. See Reserve and Resource Estimate, below.
Other lands required for offsite infrastructure, such as the Jungjuk port site, the road to the port site and gas pipeline are categorized as Native, State of Alaska conveyed, or Bureau of Land Management (BLM) lands. Rights-of-way will be required from other Alaska Native corporations, the State of Alaska and BLM for the road and pipeline alignments that cross Native corporation, state and federal lands.
Permits
Donlin Gold obtained all of the necessary permits and certifications that allowed for the exploration, associated feasibility study test work, environmental monitoring and EIS baseline data collection efforts. The current status of these permits is in line with the termination of the baseline data collection effort, temporary closure of the camp in May 2015, and the seasonal reopening of the site for a drill program from July to November 2017. The active permits include: Alaska Department of Natural Resources temporary use of water; the U.S. Army Corps of Engineering (individual 404 and nationwide 26); Alaska Department of Environmental Conservation (septic system, multisector stormwater general permit - sector G, owners requested limit [air]); Environmental Protection Agency injection well; and Federal Aviation Administration (Landing Area). Other permits were either put on hold, closed, or allowed to expire.
On August 7, 2012, we announced that Donlin Gold commenced permitting of the project by submitting a draft Plan of Operations and Section 404 of the U.S. Clean Water Act draft permit application to federal and state regulators. The Section 404 permit application initiated the environmental review process under NEPA which involves preparation of an EIS. The Corps selected AECOM, formerly URS, an independent contractor to prepare the EIS. The Notice of Intent for the EIS was published in the Federal Register on December 14, 2012 and the NEPA public scoping process was completed on March 29, 2013. During the remainder of 2013 and in 2014 and 2015, Donlin Gold worked to address the remaining data needs for the draft EIS. Donlin Gold also continued to provide application materials and maintained ongoing dialogue with the agencies that will issue the key permits and authorizations needed for the Donlin Gold project, including the air quality, water discharge, dam safety, wetlands, water use, fish habitat, and pipeline permits and approvals. The Corps addressed the cooperating agency comments on the preliminary draft and filed the Notice of Availability for public release of the draft EIS in the Federal Register in November 2015. Subsequent to the filing of the draft EIS, the Corps issued a schedule for public meetings on the Donlin Gold draft EIS in the Y-K region and Anchorage, Alaska. The Corps conducted, and at the end of May 2016 completed, a six-month public comment period for the draft EIS, including 17 public comment meetings in communities across the Y-K region and in Anchorage. The Corps received comments from federal and state agencies, local and tribal governments, Alaska Native organizations, businesses, special interest groups/NGOs, and individuals. The Corps will respond to all comments in the final EIS which the Corps’ current schedule anticipates will be published in early 2018. All Donlin Gold EIS documents, including the Corps’ time table for the Donlin Gold EIS process, can be found on their website at www.donlingoldeis.com.
An extensive list of additional federal and state government permits and approvals must be obtained before construction can begin on the Donlin Gold project. Preparation of the applications for some of these permits and approvals requires additional, more detailed engineering that was not part of the Donlin Gold FS. Completion of this engineering will require a significant investment of funds, time, and other resources by Donlin Gold and its contractors. Also, the Donlin Gold board must approve a construction program and budget before construction of the Donlin Gold project can begin. The timing of the required engineering work and the Donlin Gold board’s approval of a construction program and budget, the receipt of all required governmental permits and approvals, the availability of financing, as well as other factors, will affect whether and when construction of the Donlin Gold project will begin. Among other reasons, project delays could occur as a result of public opposition, legal challenges to permit decisions, limitations in agency staff resources during regulatory review and permitting, and/or project changes made by Donlin Gold.
Mineral Tenure
The 2011 Restated Exploration and Lode Mining Lease (“Calista Lease”) between Calista and Donlin Gold, includes subsurface (mineral) rights leased from Calista. Calista also owns the corresponding surface estate on a portion of these lands, the rights to which are also included in the Calista Lease. The Calista Lease provides Donlin Gold with rights to approximately 19,883 hectares (49,132 acres) of Calista-owned land. The Calista Lease was restated on February 11, 2011 to reflect all assignments and amendments made between its original execution on May 1, 1995 and February 11, 2011. The Calista Lease was amended once again effective June 6, 2014 (the “2014 Amendment”). The 2014 Amendment did not affect the lands subject to the Calista Lease as restated on February 11, 2011.
On June 9, 2014, the Company announced that Donlin Gold and TKC reached an updated long-term Surface Use Agreement (SUA) for the Donlin Gold Project. The SUA with TKC grants non-exclusive surface use rights to Donlin Gold for mining activities. TKC owns and contributed to the SUA the corresponding surface estate over most of Calista’s subsurface estate included in the Calista Lease as well as some additional surface estate. The SUA with TKC provides Donlin Gold with rights to approximately 16,763 hectares (41,422 acres) of TKC-owned land.
In addition to the leased land, Donlin Gold holds 493 State of Alaska mining claims comprising approximately 28,903 hectares (71,420 acres) in the Kuskokwim and Mt. McKinley Recording Districts. The mining claims abut and largely surround northern and western boundaries of the lands subject to the Calista Lease and TKC SUA. The mining claims are located on lands that are owned by the State of Alaska (409) and on State-selected lands from the BLM (84). All claims are approximately either 16.2 hectares (40 acres) or 64.8 hectares (160 acres) in size.
Accessibility and Climate
The Donlin Gold property is located in southwestern Alaska, approximately 20 kilometers north of the village of Crooked Creek on the Kuskokwim River. The Kuskokwim River is a regional transportation route and is serviced by commercial barge lines. A 25 kilometer-long winter road, designated as an Alaska State Highway route and transportation corridor, accesses the property from the barge landing at the village of Crooked Creek. The Donlin Gold project currently has an all-season, soft-sided camp with facilities to house up to 150 people. An adjacent 1,500 meter long airstrip is capable of handling aircraft as large as L-100 Hercules (42,000 pounds or 19,050 kilograms), allowing efficient shipment of personnel, some heavy equipment, and supplies. The Donlin Gold project can be reached directly by charter air facilities out of both Anchorage, 450 kilometers to the east and Aniak, 80 kilometers to the west.
The project area is one of low topographic relief on the western flank of the Kuskokwim Mountains. Elevations range from 150 meters to 640 meters. Ridges are well rounded and easily accessible by all-terrain vehicle. Hillsides are forested with black spruce, tamarack, alder, birch and larch. Soft muskeg and discontinuous permafrost are common in poorly drained areas at lower elevations. The area has a relatively dry interior continental climate with typically less than 50 cm (20 inches) total annual precipitation. Summer temperatures are relatively warm and may reach nearly 30°C (83°F). Minimum temperatures may fall to well below -42°C (-45°F) during the cold winter months.
Exploration History
Approximately 1,850 exploration and development drill holes, totaling 414,760 meters, have been completed from 1988 through 2017. Approximately 1,396 holes, totaling 339,733 meters, supported the resource model used in the Donlin Gold FS. The remaining holes were either drilled more recently than the completion of the Donlin Gold FS (2017) or were utilized for other purposes, such as district exploration, carbonate resource, facilities condemnation, hydrology, and infrastructure engineering.
Year Company Work Performed Results
1909 to 1956 Various prospectors and placer miners Gold discovered in 1909. Placer mining by hand, underground, and hydraulic methods. Total placer gold production of approximately 30,000 ounces.
1970s to 2015 Robert Lyman and heirs Resumed sluice mining in Donlin Gold area and placer mined Snow Gulch. First year of mining Snow Gulch produced best results, with 800 ounces of gold recovered. Donlin Gold has obtained an agreement with the Lyman family to consolidate the land package around the proposed mine.
1974, 1975 Resource Associates of Alaska (RAA) Regional mineral potential evaluation for Calista. Soil grid and three bulldozer trenches dug in Snow Gulch area. Soil, rock, and vein samples have anomalous gold values. Trench rock sample results range from 2 to 20 grams per tonne gold.
1984 to 1987 Calista Corporation Minor work. Geologists from various mining companies, including Cominco and Kennecott, visit the property.
Lyman Resources Auger drilling for placer evaluation finds abundant gray, sulfide rich clay near Quartz Gulch. Assays of cuttings average over 7 grams per tonne gold. Initial discovery of Far Side (“Carolyn”) prospect.
Calista Corporation Rock sampling of ridge tops and auger drill sampling of Far Side prospect. Anomalous gold values from auger holes: best result = 9.7 grams per tonne gold.
1988 to 1989 Western Gold Exploration and Mining Co. Airborne geophysics, geological mapping, and soil sampling over most of the project area. Total of 13,525 meters of D9 Cat trenching at all prospects. Over 15,000 soil, rock chip, and auger samples collected. Drilling included 3,106 feet of AX core drilling, 404 meters in 239 auger holes, and 10,423 meters of RC drilling (125 holes). First metallurgical tests and petrographic work. Initial work identified eight prospects with encouraging geology (Snow, Dome, Quartz, Carolyn, Queen, Upper Lewis, Lower Lewis, and Rochelieu). Drilling at most of these prospects led to identification of the Lewis areas as having the best bulk-mineable potential. Mineral resource estimate completed.
Year Company Work Performed Results
Teck Exploration Ltd.
D-9 Cat trenching (1,400 meters) and two 500 meter soil lines in Lewis area. Petrographic, fluid inclusion, and metallurgical work.
Identified new mineralized areas, updated Mineral resource estimate.
1995 to 2000 Placer Dome 87,383 meters of core, 11,909 meters of RC drilling and 8,493 meters of trenching. Environmental monitoring and assessment. Drilled the American Creek magnetic anomaly (ACMA), discovered the ACMA deposit. Numerous mineral resource estimation iterations.
2001 to 2002 NOVAGOLD 46,495 meters of core, 38,022 meters of RC drilling, 89.5 meters of geotechnical drilling, and 268 meters of water monitoring holes. Filed a preliminary assessment report on the project. Updated resource estimate.
2003 to 2005 Donlin Gold Joint Venture 25,448 meters of core and 5,979 meters of RC drilling. Calcium carbonate exploration drilling; IP lines for facility condemnation studies. Infill drilled throughout the resource area. Discovered a calcium carbonate resource. Poor quality IP data.
Donlin Gold Joint Venture 92,804 meters of core drilling to support mineral resource classification conversion, slope stability, metallurgy, waste rock, carbonate exploration, facilities and port road studies. Geological model and mineral resource update.
Donlin Gold Joint Venture Core drilling totaled 75,257 meters and included resource delineation, geotechnical and engineering, and carbonate exploration. 13 RC holes for monitor wells and pit pump tests totaled 1,043 meters. Improved pit slope parameters, positive hydrogeological results. Carbonate exploration was negative. Updated mineral resource estimate. Completed feasibility study with positive results.
Donlin Gold LLC 108 core holes totaling 33,425 meters for exploration and facility related geotechnical and condemnation studies. Updated resource models. Metallurgical test work: flotation variability and CN leach. 54 test pits and 37 auger holes were also completed for overburden characterization. Resource expansion indicated for East ACMA. CN leach resource potential indicated for the main resource area, Snow, and Dome prospects. Facility sites successfully condemned. Updated resource estimates utilizing applicable data through 2007.
Donlin Gold LLC 19 geotechnical core holes totaling 950 meters in facility sites and to address hydrology.
Donlin Gold LLC Six geotechnical core holes totaling 2,090 meters to evaluate slope stability of expanded pit. Also drilled 90 auger holes totaling 585 meters and dug 59 test pits to further evaluate overburden conditions and gravel supplies within tailings storage facility (TSF) area.
Pit slope stability of new pit design remained acceptable. Construction suitability of surficial materials in TSF is evaluated.
Donlin Gold LLC 16 core holes totaling 7,040 meters to test targeted mineralized zones, collect structural data related to mineralization, and collect geotechnical data.
Geology
Regional Geology
The Kuskokwim region of southwestern Alaska is predominately underlain by rocks of the Upper Cretaceous Kuskokwim Group that filled a subsided northeast-trending strike-slip basin between a series of amalgamated terranes. Intermediate composition volcano-plutonic complexes intrude and overlie Kuskokwim Group rocks throughout the region.
Local Geology
The Donlin Gold deposits lie between two regional, northeast-trending, right lateral fault systems: the Denali-Farewell fault system to the south and the Iditarod-Nixon Fork fault system to the north. Undivided Kuskokwim Group sedimentary rocks and granite porphyry complexes are the main rock units.
Property Geology
Greywacke is dominant in the northern part of the area (“northern resource area” comprising Lewis, Queen, Rochelieu, and Akivik), while shale-rich units are common in the southern part of the area (“southern resource area” comprising South Lewis and ACMA).
Gold deposits are associated with an extensive Late Cretaceous-Early Tertiary gold-arsenic-antimony-mercury hydrothermal system. Gold-bearing zones exhibit strong structural and host rock control along north-northeast-trending fracture zones and are best developed where those zones intersect relatively competent host rocks. Mineralized material is most abundant in intrusive dikes and sills, but sedimentary rocks are also mineralized within strong fracture zones.
Geotechnical and Hydrology
A number of geotechnical and hydrological studies have been completed in support of feasibility and environmental reports for Donlin Gold.
Rowland Engineering Consultants performed the geotechnical assessments for the engineering to support design of the port site, airstrip, plant site and interconnecting roads. BGC, Inc. performed geotechnical analyses for the design of the pit, waste rock facility, and TSF.
The site-wide hydrological model developed by BGC, is based on extensive drill data and climatic information for the area. BGC, Inc., CEMI, Hatch Ltd., and SRK, Inc. provided hydrologic studies, design criteria and associated test work for the water treatment plant requirements during construction, operations, and closure. Lorax Environmental performed water quality modeling for the post closure pit lake.
Exploration Potential
The mineral resource defined in the Donlin Gold FS is confined to a small portion of the property. We believe there is considerable potential to increase the mineral resources at the Donlin Gold project. Numerous other targets have been identified along the 8 kilometer mineralized gold trend, and are defined by surface sampling and various historical drill holes containing significant gold values.
Exploration potential in the vicinity of the open pit design in the Donlin Gold FS includes extensions along strike to the East ACMA, Lewis, and Crooked Creek areas. Mineralization remains open at depth under the current pit limits. Mineralization also remains open to the north of the planned pit and has been tested by shallow trenching and soil sampling, with limited drilling undertaken to date.
Exploration potential at the Donlin Gold project also exists outside the areas that have been the subject of the mine design in the Donlin Gold FS. Gold mineralization is associated with an overall north-northeasterly-trending high level dike/sill complex that has been outlined in the regional aero-magnetics as a magnetic low. The zone, approximately 8 kilometers long, and 4 kilometers wide, consists of a northern, dike-dominated area, and a southern, more sill-dominated area.
Mineralization
Southeast-dipping north-northeast-oriented fracture zones are the primary control on gold-bearing vein distribution within the north-northeast mineralized corridors. Composite vein zones or mineralized corridors range up to 30 meters in width and extend for hundreds of meters along strike. Intrusive rocks and to a lesser extent competent massive greywacke are the most favored host rocks, and act as a secondary control on the mineralization. Gold distribution in the deposit closely mimics the intrusive rocks, which contain about 74% of the mineral resource identified in the Donlin Gold FS. Structural zones in competent sedimentary units account for the remaining 26%.
Gold-bearing sulfides occur in both veins and disseminated zones in mafic igneous bodies, rhyodacite dikes and sills, and sedimentary rocks. Quartz-carbonate-sulfide (pyrite, stibnite, and arsenopyrite) veins are the primary mineralized features, but gold also occurs in thin, discontinuous sulfide fracture fillings.
Minor Elements and Deleterious Materials
The most abundant minor elements associated with gold-bearing material are iron, arsenic, antimony, and sulfur. They are contained primarily in the mineral suite associated with hydrothermal deposition of gold, including pyrite, arsenopyrite, realgar, native arsenic, and stibnite. Minor hydrothermal pyrrhotite, marcasite and syngenetic or sedimentary pyrite, also account for some of the iron and sulfur.
Three elements that have particular processing significance are mercury, chlorine, and fluorine. Graphitic carbon and carbonate minerals also would negatively affect the metallurgical process.
Metallurgy
Sufficient metallurgical testwork was completed under the direction of Barrick personnel to support the Donlin Gold FS. Gold is mainly carried by arsenopyrite. Variation is observed in processing behavior between intrusive rocks and sedimentary rocks, but less so between the geographical sources.
Process testing generated development of the following conceptual flowsheet:
·conventional crushing and grinding;
·concentration by flotation;
·pressure oxidation of the concentrate in an autoclave;
·carbon-in-leach (“CIL”) cyanidation of the oxidized concentrate;
·carbon strip and regeneration circuits;
·gold electrowinning; and
·refining and production of doré bars.
This processing concept incorporates proven commercial unit operations.
Reserve and Resource Estimate
The mineral reserves for the Donlin Gold project were classified using criteria appropriate under the CIM Definition Standards with an effective date of July 11, 2011. The mineral reserves are summarized in the table below.
Proven and Probable Mineral Reserve Estimate
Notes:
(1)Mineral reserves are contained within Measured and Indicated pit designs, and supported by a mine plan, featuring variable throughput rates, stockpiling and cut-off optimization. The pit designs and mine plan were optimized on diluted grades using the following economic and technical parameters: Metal price for gold of $975 per ounce; reference mining cost of $1.67 per tonne incremented $0.0031 per tonne per meter with depth from the 220 meter elevation (equates to an average mining cost of $2.14 per tonne), variable processing cost based on the formula 2.1874 x (S%) + 10.65 for each $ per tonne processed; general and administrative cost of $2.27 per tonne processed; stockpile rehandle costs of $0.19 per tonne processed assuming that 45% of mill feed is rehandled; variable recoveries by rock type, ranging from 86.66% in shale to 94.17% in intrusive rocks in the Akivik domain; refining and freight charges of $1.78 per ounce gold; royalty considerations of 4.5%; and variable pit slope angles, ranging from 23º to 43º. The Mineral Reserves are reported in accordance with NI 43-101, which differs from Industry Guide 7. The project is without known reserves under SEC Industry Guide 7. See Cautionary Note to U.S. Investors Regarding Estimates of Measured, Indicated and Inferred Resources and Proven and Probable Reserves, above.
(2)Mineral reserves are reported using an optimized net sales return value based on the following equation: net sales return = Gold grade * Recovery * ($975 - (1.78 + ($975 - 1.78) * 0.045)) - (10.65 + 2.1874 * (S%) + 2.27 + 0.19) and reported in $ per tonne.
(3)The life of mine strip ratio is 5.48. The assumed life-of-mine throughput rate is 53,500 tonnes per day.
(4)Rounding as required by reporting guidelines may result in apparent summation differences between tonnes, grade and contained metal content.
(5)Mineral reserves are reported on a 100% basis. NOVAGOLD and Barrick each own 50% of the Donlin Gold project. Tonnage and grade measurements are in metric units. Contained gold ounces are reported as troy ounces.
Mineral reserves have been estimated using a long-term gold price assumption of $975 per ounce. Mineral resources are based on a Whittle™ pit optimized for all measured, indicated, and inferred blocks assuming a gold selling price of $1,200 per ounce and are inclusive of reserves.
Mineral resources were classified using criteria appropriate under the CIM Definition Standards by application of the NSR-based cut-off grade that incorporated mining and recovery parameters, and constraint of the mineral resources to a pit shell based on commodity prices. The mineral resources have an effective date of July 11, 2011. The mineral resources are summarized in the table below.
Measured and Indicated Resources Estimate (inclusive of reserves)
Notes:
(1)Mineral resources are inclusive of mineral reserves. Mineral resources that are not mineral reserves do not have demonstrated economic viability. See Cautionary Note to U.S. Investors Regarding Estimates of Measured, Indicated and Inferred Resources and Proven and Probable Reserves, above.
(2)Mineral resources are contained within a conceptual measured, indicated and inferred optimized pit shell using the following assumptions: gold price of $1,200 per ounce; variable process cost based on 2.1874 * (sulfur grade) + 10.65; administration cost of $2.29 per tonne; refining, freight & marketing (selling costs) of $1.85 per ounce recovered; stockpile re-handle costs of $0.20 per tonne processed assuming that 45% of mill feed is re-handled; variable royalty rate, based on royalty of 4.5% * (Gold price - selling cost).
(3)Mineral resources have been estimated using a constant net sales return (NSR) cut-off of $0.001 per tonne milled. The net sales return cut-off was calculated using the formula: NSR = Gold grade * Recovery * ($1,200 - (1.85 + ($1,200 - 1.85) * 0.045)) - (10.65 + 2.1874 * (S%) + 2.29 + 0.20) and reported in $ per tonne. The marginal gold cut-off grade would be approximately 0.57 g/t, or the gold grade that would equate to a $0.001 NSR cut-off at these same values.
(4)Rounding as required by reporting guidelines may result in apparent summation differences between tonnes, grade and contained metal content.
(5)Tonnage and grade measurements are in metric units. Contained gold ounces are reported as troy ounces. See Cautionary Note to U.S. Investors Regarding Estimates of Measured, Indicated and Inferred Resources and Proven and Probable Reserves, above.
Inferred Mineral Resource Estimate
Notes:
(1)Inferred resources are in addition to measured and indicated resources. Inferred resources have a great amount of uncertainty as to their existence and whether they can be mined legally or economically. It cannot be assumed that all or any part of the inferred resources will ever be upgraded to a higher category. See Cautionary Note to U.S. Investors Regarding Estimates of Measured, Indicated and Inferred Resources and Proven and Probable Reserves, above.
(2)Tonnage and grade measurements are in metric units. Contained gold ounces are reported as troy ounces. See Cautionary Note to U.S. Investors Regarding Estimates of Measured, Indicated and Inferred Resources and Proven and Probable Reserves, above.
Feasibility Study and Updates
On December 5, 2011, we announced the results of the Donlin Gold FS which revised the previous 2009 feasibility study with updated mineral reserves and resources, capital costs and operating cost estimates. The Donlin Gold FS also utilizes natural gas as the primary power generation fuel source for the project rather than the original diesel option. Based on the Donlin Gold FS, the project is expected to be a conventional truck-and-shovel open-pit operation. The mine life is estimated to be 27 years based on a nominal processing rate of 59,000 tons (53,500 tonnes) per day. During the first five years of full operation, expected production averages 1.46 million ounces of gold annually and an average of 1.13 million ounces of gold per year over its projected mine life. The total capital cost estimate for the Donlin Gold project is approximately $6.7 billion including costs related to the natural gas pipeline and a contingency of $984 million. The project’s estimated after-tax net present value at a 5% discount rate (“NPV5%”) is $547 million using the base case gold price of $1,200 per ounce. The internal rate of return (IRR) at the same gold price is 6.0%. The NPV and IRR calculations exclude sunk costs of $168 million assumed to be spent in Years -6 and -7.
Base Case Project Sensitivity to Gold Price
Summary of Key Evaluation Metrics (Base Case at $1,200 per ounce gold)
Notes:
(1)Cash flow after-tax excludes sunk costs of $168 million assumed to be spent in Years -6 and -7.
(2)Reference dates for discounted cash flow metrics are Year -5 (January 1, 2014 per the Donlin Gold FS) and exclude sunk costs.
(3)Costs applicable to sales (US GAAP), excluding Depreciation and Reclamation costs.
Operating Cost Estimates
Capital Cost Estimates
Sustaining capital requirements are estimated at $1,505 million over the life of the mine.
Planned Mining Operations
The Donlin Gold project will be mined by a conventional truck-and-shovel operation. Initial pioneering and pit development will be undertaken to remove overburden, develop mine access roads suitable for large mining equipment, and “face-up” the initial pit for the large shovel and mining equipment.
Primary loading units for both bulk and selective mining in ore and waste will be large electric-hydraulic shovels, with large front-end loaders as secondary units. Large 360 tonne capacity haul trucks will be used for transporting both ore and waste out of the pit.
Blast hole drilling will be performed by medium-sized rotary and down-the-hole hammer drills with various hole diameters depending on bench height and desired mining selectivity. Reverse circulation (RC) drilling is planned for detailed geologic definition and grade control.
Support equipment will be used for road, bench, and dump maintenance and miscellaneous projects.
Planned Processing Operations
The Donlin Gold project ore will be processed by crushing and grinding, sulfide flotation concentration, concentrate treatment by pressure oxidation (POX) in an autoclave, carbon-in-leach (CIL) cyanide leaching of the oxide concentrate, electrowinning, and refining to produce doré bars on site.
Due to gold being associated with sulfide mineralization, primarily arsenopyrite and pyrite, the ore is considered refractory and requires POX pre-treatment to liberate the gold prior to CIL leaching. Sulfide flotation concentration is required prior to POX to concentrate the sulfide content to a level sufficient to fuel the POX operation.
Concentrate is recovered from the primary rougher flotation followed by regrinding of the tailings prior to secondary rougher flotation. The secondary rougher concentrate is processed through a cleaner scavenger circuit producing a concentrate which is combined with the primary rougher concentrate for treatment by POX. The final tailings from the secondary rougher flotation tailings is thickened, and due to their neutralizing potential, is then utilized to modify the pH of the POX discharge solution prior to being transported to the TSF.
The oxidized concentrate from the POX operation would then be cyanide leached in a conventional CIL circuit to produce a pregnant (gold-bearing) solution. Gold from the solution is adsorbed onto activated carbon, which is later stripped (gold desorbed from carbon) in an elution circuit. The pregnant solution after elution is fed through electrowinning (EW) cells, where cathodes are plated with gold-bearing materials, which are periodically removed, dried in retort, and melted in an induction furnace to produce doré bars.
Tailings from the CIL circuit would be treated in a cyanide detoxification process using SO2/air technology prior to being recombined with the flotation tailings and transported to the TSF.
Mercury naturally occurs in the Donlin Gold project ores and mercury abatement controls will be installed in six areas of the process facilities including POX, hot cure, EW, retort, refinery furnace, and carbon regeneration kiln. In these control systems, mercury will be collected for off-site shipment and management. Chemicals will be added to tailings to limit the potential for mercury releases from the TSF.
Proposed Production Plan and Schedule
Based on the Donlin Gold FS, the operating mine life is estimated to be 27 years with the nominal processing rate of 53,500 tonnes per day. Commercial gold production is proposed in the Donlin Gold FS after a period of 3 to 4 years for project permitting and concurrent engineering and 3.5 to 4 years for construction. The Donlin Gold FS also assumed that project engineering would proceed in parallel with project permitting. In addition, the Donlin Gold board must approve a construction program and budget before construction of the Donlin Gold project can begin. The timing of the initiation of the required engineering work, of the Donlin Gold board’s approval of a construction program and budget, and receipt of all required governmental permits and approvals will determine whether and when construction of the Donlin Gold project will begin.
Preproduction covers the first 15 months of the mine plan, when mining activities will focus on providing sufficient ore exposure for plant start-up. Ore mined during preproduction will be stockpiled and rehandled to the mill during operations. Average mine production increases progressively in the initial years until the peak rate of 425,000 tonnes per day is reached in Year 6.
Waste Rock Facility
Waste rock from open pit mining will be placed in an ex-pit waste rock facility in the American Creek Valley, east of the pit area, or in a backfill dump in the ACMA pit. The ultimate footprint of the facility covers an area of approximately 9 square kilometers. Approximately 2,232 million tonnes of waste rock and overburden will be placed in the facility, and 423 million tonnes will be placed in the ACMA pit backfill dump. Approximately 103 million tonnes of waste rock will be used for construction purposes, and 17 million tonnes of overburden will be stockpiled and used later for reclamation purposes.
The potential magnitude of flow in the American Creek drainage, as well as discharge from springs in the valley floors, warrants the construction of an engineered rock drain system below the waste rock facility, including connecting secondary rock (finger) drains in the smaller contributing drainages.
Waste rock will be characterized by its potential for acid generation and assigned reactivity categories. Non-acid-generating (NAG) rock will be placed directly in the waste rock facility, along with less reactive potentially acid-generating (PAG) rock, PAG5. Some of the more reactive PAG rock, PAG6, will be encapsulated in cells in the waste rock facility to prevent water infiltration through them. The most reactive PAG rock, PAG7, will be backfilled in the ACMA pit beneath the ultimate pit lake water level.
Concurrent reclamation of the waste rock facility will be undertaken during operations.
Proposed Tailings Storage
The TSF in the Anaconda Creek basin will be a fully lined impoundment with a cross valley dam downstream (“main dam”) in the valley. The tailings dam will be constructed of compacted rock fill using the downstream method with a composite liner on the upstream face. The tailings impoundment footprint will be lined with a linear low density polyethylene liner over a layer of broadly graded silty sand and gravel acting as low permeability bedding material and providing secondary containment. Material for construction will be sourced from the plant site and fuel farm during initial construction and from the open pit for the later raises during operations.
Water Diversion Dams
Water dams are required during the construction period and initial years of operation to protect the lined upstream face of the tailings starter dam from a significant flood event, to provide a reliable source of fresh water during operation of the process plant, and to minimize runoff into the TSF.
Current and Planned On-Site Infrastructure
Current site infrastructure comprises an all-season, soft-sided camp with facilities to house up to 150 people consisting of kitchen, living quarters, equipment shop, drill shack and other buildings required for support of year-round exploration activities.
There is sufficient area within the project area to host an open-pit mining operation, including the proposed open pit, waste rock facility, TSF and process facilities (primary and pebble crushers, coarse ore conveyor and coarse ore stockpile, concentrator, water treatment plants, oxygen plant, boiler house, utility corridors, and access walkways). Other planned site infrastructure comprises: access roads, airstrip, accommodation camp, fuel tank farm, and dual-fueled power plant, truck shop, truck wash, workshops and vehicle repair facilities, assay laboratory, administration facilities and change rooms. Donlin Gold has secured the surface rights for the areas that may host these facilities.
In the nearby villages, Crooked Creek has approximately 140 residents and Aniak has a population of approximately 570. The workforce for the project would be sourced from the local area, from Alaskan regional centers and from other sources as required.
The project is a greenfield site. The on-site infrastructure for the project includes three main development sites in remote locations: the mine and plant site area (including the power plant), the permanent camp, and the airstrip. The plant site, power plant and fuel tank farm will be on a ridge above the proposed TSF. The layout of the plant site was designed to take maximum advantage of the natural topography. The layout also provides for efficient movement of equipment and material products around the site.
Planned Off-site Infrastructure
The off-site infrastructure for the project includes three main development sites in remote locations: the Jungjuk Port site and mine access road; the natural gas pipeline; and the Bethel port facilities. The Jungjuk Port site is situated upriver on the Kuskokwim River near the mouth of Jungjuk Creek. A port-to-mine access road (Jungjuk Road) , approximately 44 kilometers long, will traverse varied terrain from the Jungjuk Port site to the mine site. A 4.8 kilometer long spur road will serve the project airstrip. The primary purpose of the road is to transport freight from the Jungjuk Port site to the mine mostly by conventional highway tractors and trailers. The natural gas pipeline is described under the Power heading below. The Bethel Port will be situated near the town of Bethel, a community of approximately 6,400 residents, that is the main port on the Kuskokwim River and is an administrative and transportation hub for the 56 villages in the Y-K region. The Port of Bethel is the northernmost medium-draft port in the United States and is served by ocean-going barges. The proposed port would serve as a trans-shipment point from ocean barges to river barges to supply the project during the summer.
Power
Natural gas will be delivered to site by an approximately 315-mile (500 kilometer) long 14-inch (356 millimeter) diameter pipeline to supply an on-site power generation facility. The Donlin Gold FS contemplates that the electric power for the site will be generated from a dual-fueled (natural gas and diesel), reciprocating engine power plant with a steam turbine utilizing waste heat recovery from the engines. The power plant consists of two equal halves, each consisting of six reciprocating engines, and a separate steam turbine. The total generation facility is nominally rated at 182 MW initially. This will increase to 215 MW after four years with the addition of two more generators (one in each half) to allow for N+2 redundancy, thus allowing planned maintenance and predicted outages without cutting back production.
At the time of the Donlin Gold FS, the natural gas pipeline was a lower-cost alternative to the previously considered barging of diesel fuel to site to generate electricity. The Donlin Gold FS operating costs are based on importing liquefied natural gas (LNG) by ship to Anchorage and total delivery costs to site which includes regasification of the LNG and delivery from Anchorage to the Donlin Gold project via the pipeline.
The pipeline would commence at the west end of the Beluga Gas Field, approximately 48 kilometers northwest of Anchorage at a tie-in near Beluga located in the Matanuska-Susitna Borough and would run to the mine site. The pipeline would receive booster compression supplied by one compressor station. No additional compression along the pipeline route would be required. The pipeline would have capacity to transport approximately 2 million cubic meters per day of natural gas.
Water
Water requirements for the proposed project have been summarized in a Water Resources Management Plan, which is subject to review by state and federal agencies. Water primarily will be sourced from the two drainages (American and Anaconda Creeks) within the mine footprint and pit dewatering. In some years, the water supply from these sources may not be able to meet the makeup water requirements for the plant. In these circumstances, additional water will be obtained primarily from a reservoir in Snow Gulch.
The source of water supply for the construction camp and, later, the plant site potable water systems is an array of eight deep wells south of Omega Gulch, near Crooked Creek. Water supply will be pumped to freshwater storage tanks, and will be treated prior to consumption.
Markets
The marketing plan is for the owners of Donlin Gold to take in-kind their respective shares of the gold production, which they can then sell for their own benefit. Under the LLC Agreement, the manager shall give the members prompt notice in advance of the delivery date upon which their respective shares of gold production will be available.
Since there are a large number of available gold purchasers, the members should not be dependent upon the sale of gold to any one customer. Gold can be sold to various gold bullion dealers or smelters on a competitive basis at spot prices.
It is expected that selling contracts for our share of the gold production will be typical of, and consistent with, standard industry practice, and be similar to contracts for the supply of doré elsewhere in the world.
Taxation
The Donlin Gold FS contemplates that the following taxes may be levied on the project:
·Federal income tax - the greater of the U.S. regular tax of 35% or alternative minimum tax of 20%.
·Alaska state income tax - 9.4% of net income or alternative minimum tax of 18% of federal alternative minimum tax.
·Alaska state mining license tax - 7% of taxable mining income, less depletion. There is a 3.5-year tax holiday on the mining license tax.
Income tax becomes payable after deductions for capital allowances. See Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 12 below, for subsequent events that may affect the taxes applicable to the project.
Financial Analysis
The total capital cost estimate for the Donlin Gold project is $6.7 billion including costs related to the natural gas pipeline and a contingency. The project’s estimated after-tax net present value (NPV5%) is $547 million with an IRR after-tax at 6.0% using the base case gold price of $1,200 per ounce. The break-even gold price is $902 per ounce. In the Donlin Gold FS, the overall economic viability of the project was evaluated by both discounted and undiscounted cash flow analyses, based on the engineering studies and cost estimates discussed in this study. Assumptions in the model comprised:
·For discounted cash flow (or NPV) purposes, the model is based from Year -5 (January 1, 2014 per the Donlin Gold FS). Estimates were prepared for all the individual elements of cash revenue and cash expenditures for ongoing operations.
·Estimated cash flows from revenue are based on a gold price of $1,200 per ounce as provided by Donlin Gold. The pit has been optimized at a gold price of $975 per ounce, which was the guidance in effect at the time the pit optimization work was completed.
·Gold recovery is estimated to average 89.8% over the LOM based on work and testing performed for feasibility study and feasibility study update purposes.
·Doré refining and shipping charges were estimated at $1.02 per ounce based on actual refining charges for Barrick’s Goldstrike operations and a quotation for transportation and insurance costs from the Donlin Gold project site to a U.S.-based refinery. An additional 0.1% of gold produced from the mine is included in refining costs. This amount represents the refiner’s estimate of the loss of gold that will occur during the refining process.
·The current hydrometallurgical process selection renders any contained silver into a greater refractory state, which provides less than 10% silver recovery through standard metal leaching. As a consequence, no silver credit was applied to the project.
·Assets will be sold over the course of the mine life, when they are no longer required for project-based work, as well as at the end of the mine life. Total recovered value from these sales is estimated at approximately $23.0 million.
·Reclamation and closure costs were estimated at $273.7 million to be funded over the construction and operating period to fund closure and post-closure activities.
·Inventory is included in the financial model as cash outflows in the year before start-up of operations.
Current Activities
For information on current activities, see section Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, below.
Galore Creek Project, British Columbia
Galore Creek Partnership
The Galore Creek project is a large copper-gold-silver project located in northwestern British Columbia, held by a partnership in which our wholly-owned subsidiary, NOVAGOLD Canada Inc., and Teck Resources Inc. each own a 50% interest and is managed by Galore Creek Mining Corporation (GCMC). The Galore Creek property, as per the PFS, comprises 293,837 acres (118,912 hectares) and hosts a large, porphyry-related copper-gold-silver deposit. Funding is currently shared by both parties on a 50/50 basis.
On November 16, 2011, we announced that we were evaluating opportunities to sell all or part of our 50% interest in the Galore Creek project. As of November 30, 2017, we had not received an acceptable offer for our 50% interest in the Galore Creek project.
Partnership History
On August 1, 2007, we entered into the Galore Creek Partnership Agreement with Teck (as amended on November 25, 2007 and on July 28, 2008, the “Partnership Agreement”) which formed the Galore Creek Partnership giving each of us a 50% interest in the Galore Creek project. The activities of the Galore Creek Partnership are being conducted by GCMC, an independent entity controlled equally by us and Teck, pursuant to the terms of the Partnership Agreement.
Under the Partnership Agreement, we contributed our assets in the Galore Creek project to the Galore Creek Partnership and Teck agreed to fund an initial contribution after which both partners would be equally responsible to fund the project going forward. In addition, under the terms of the Partnership Agreement, we would receive up to $50 million of preferential distributions once Galore Creek was fully operational, if partnership revenues exceeded certain established targets in the first year of commercial production.
On November 26, 2007, we announced that NOVAGOLD and Teck had reached the decision to suspend construction activities at the Galore Creek project. In light of these developments, we agreed with Teck to amend the terms of Teck’s earn-in obligations in connection with the Galore Creek project. Under the amended arrangements, Teck’s total earn-in was approximately C$403 million and we were to receive up to $25 million of preferential distributions once Galore Creek became fully operational, if Partnership revenues exceeded certain established targets in the first year of commercial production. Teck’s sole funding of project costs incurred after August 1, 2007 was to total C$264 million, and Teck agreed to invest an additional C$72 million in the Galore Creek Partnership to be used over the next five years, principally to reassess the project and evaluate alternative development strategies. NOVAGOLD and Teck were to fund the next C$100 million of project costs one-third and two-thirds respectively, and would fund costs proportionately thereafter.
On February 11, 2009, we agreed with Teck to further amend certain provisions of the Partnership Agreement relating to the Galore Creek project. The amendment confirmed that NOVAGOLD and Teck each continue to hold a 50% interest in the Galore Creek Partnership. Under the amended agreement, Teck agreed to fund 100% of Galore Creek project costs until the total amount contributed by Teck after November 1, 2008, together with approximately C$16 million previously contributed by Teck on optimization studies, equaled C$60 million. Teck would have a casting vote on the Galore Creek Partnership’s Management Committee with respect to the timing and nature of expenses to be solely funded by it. Following Teck’s C$60 million contribution, all further costs at the Galore Creek project would be funded by Teck and us in accordance with our respective Galore Creek Partnership interests and there would no longer be any casting vote for either party. The new funding arrangements replaced the funding arrangements agreed to by Teck and us in November 2007. Teck was the sole funding partner until June 22, 2011 when it completed its C$373 million earn-in obligation. Since that date, we have funded and will continue to fund Galore Creek project expenditures equally.
Except for the information under the headings “Galore Creek - Current Activities”, “Galore Creek - Project History, Drilling and Exploration, 2012 Program and 2013 Program” and “Galore Creek - Mineral Tenure”, or for information related to Copper Canyon or as otherwise stated or implied, the scientific and technical information regarding the Galore Creek project in this Annual Report on Form 10-K is based on the PFS.
Property Description and Location
The Galore Creek property is a large copper-gold-silver project located in northwestern British Columbia. The main Galore Creek property, which consists of the Southwest, Central (including Bountiful deposit), Junction, West Fork, and Middle Creek zones, contains most of the project’s known resources. Under an option agreement originally with subsidiaries of Rio Tinto plc and Anglo American plc, the then shareholders of Stikine Copper Limited, the owner of the core mineral claims at the Galore Creek project, we could acquire 100% of such company. On June 1, 2007, we completed the exercise of our option pursuant to the Galore Creek Option Agreement to purchase 100% of Stikine Copper Limited by paying the final C$12.5 million of a C$20.3 million purchase price. Our financial earn-in requirements under the Galore Creek Option Agreement were satisfied and all of Stikine Copper’s assets were purchased by us and have been transferred to the Galore Creek Partnership.
Mineral Tenure
On May 23, 2007, we announced with Teck a 50/50 partnership to develop the Galore Creek project. On August 1, 2007, the Galore Creek Partnership was established to develop the Galore Creek project and GCMC, a jointly-controlled operating company, was created. In October 2007, all Galore Creek claims held by our wholly-owned subsidiary, NOVAGOLD Canada Inc., were transferred to GCMC. GCMC currently holds 145,687 hectares (360,001 acres) of British Columbia provincial mineral claims in 324 tenures (the acquisition of additional acres since the issuance of the PFS has no material impact on reserves or resources stated in the PFS). Included in this total are the five Grace mineral claims that were acquired by GCMC from Pioneer Metals Corporation on December 3, 2007. To date, BCLS legal surveys have been recorded on 11 Galore Creek mineral claims (516158, 516161, 516163, 516165, 516459, 516177, 516335, 517480, 517481, 404921, 404922), eight West More mineral claims (516445, 516448, 585412, 516452, 516458, 509893, 662956, 662967), and four More Creek/Bob Quinn area mineral claims (514548, 514551, 545723, 566898). The adjoining Copper Canyon property, owned 60% by the Galore Creek Partnership and 40% by a subsidiary of the Company, is comprised of 12 claims totaling 11,344 hectares (28,032 acres).
The Partnership has a royalty agreement entitling the counterparty to a maximum annual net smelter royalty of 0.5% to 1.0%. The royalty is subject to positive future operating mine cash flow and is contingent upon reaching certain agreed financial targets.
Accessibility and Climate
The Galore Creek project is located approximately 70 kilometers west of the Bob Quinn airstrip on Highway 37 and 150 kilometers northeast of the port of Stewart, and 370 kilometers northwest of the town of Smithers, British Columbia, Canada. The town of Smithers is the nearest major supply center and has an airport with regularly scheduled flights to and from Vancouver, British Columbia. The project is located in the Stikine area. The nearest point on the Stikine River to the project is the mouth of the Anuk River, about 16 kilometers west of the camp. Most personnel, supplies, and equipment are staged from the Bob Quinn airstrip, on the Stewart-Cassiar Highway (Highway 37) and transported via helicopter to the Galore Creek camp. The Bob Quinn airstrip is serviced by contract flights from Smithers and Terrace, each of which has daily flights from Vancouver. Flight time from Vancouver to Smithers/Terrace is about 90 minutes, then an additional 45 minutes to Bob Quinn. The helicopter flight from Bob Quinn to the Galore Creek camp is about 30 minutes.
The Galore Creek project is located in the humid continental climate zone of coastal British Columbia and is characterized by cold winters and short, cool, summers. Within the Galore Creek valley, mean monthly temperatures range from -8.2ºC during the winter to 12.4ºC during the summer, with January and July typically being the coolest and warmest months, respectively. In the Upper West More Valley area, monthly average temperatures range from -8.9ºC in the winter to 7.9ºC in the summer. Precipitation begins to fall as snow in early October and continues until the end of May. The average annual precipitation for the whole Galore Creek valley watershed was estimated to be in the order of 3,000 millimeters. June and July tend to receive the least amount of precipitation on an annual basis (typically 40 to 60 millimeters of rain per month).
The project lies within a regional structure known as the Stikine Arch. Medium to steep slopes characterize the local terrain in the central and northern parts of the Galore Creek property. The surrounding topography is mountainous. The elevation of the tree line is variable, but alpine vegetation predominates above 1,100 meters. The forests below that elevation consist of Balsam fir, Sitka spruce and cedar. Alpine tundra is present at higher elevations.
The Galore Creek project is currently isolated from power and other public infrastructure and is currently not accessible by road. Because of glaciers covering the surrounding mountain passes, a large cross-section tunnel is needed to provide long-term vehicular access into the Galore Creek valley and for mobilization of individual component pieces of large mining equipment needed for mining the ore body using open pit methods. The time and cost for driving a tunnel in new and unexplored underground terrain is subject to many unknowns which could change the outcome significantly. The same surface constraints that preclude building a road into the site (i.e. severe topography, snowpack, glaciers and weather) also limit the amount of borehole information, geologic mapping and other site specific data that can be obtained so that subsurface conditions can be better understood before tunneling begins. Construction of the tunnel will most likely fall on the critical path for development of the mine and thus represents a significant cost and schedule risk for development of the Galore Creek project.
Within the land controlled by GCMC, there is sufficient area to allow for the construction of all project infrastructures as contemplated in the PFS. Except for the access corridor which is covered by the special use permit, all other infrastructure, including the processing plant and tailings area in West More and the Filter Plant Area near Kilometer 8 are located within GCMC’s mineral claims. GCMC intends to file for mining leases to secure the surface rights for these areas, which are held by the Crown. GCMC considers it a reasonable expectation that surface use rights will be granted to the project. Ample water supply is available from surface and subsurface sources.
Geological Setting
The Galore Creek deposit lies within the Stikinia terrane, a tectonically accreted assemblage of volcanic and sedimentary rocks that include the Stuhini, Hazelton, Bowser Lake, and Sloko Groups. The Late Triassic Galore Creek alkalic intrusive complex is centered in the west fork of the Galore Creek, and is hosted within volcanic rocks and sedimentary strata of the Stuhini Group. The Galore Creek intrusive suite forms a north-northeast-trending belt five kilometers long and two kilometers wide and contains stocks, dikes and extensive sills that underlie the district and control the known copper-gold mineralization. The spatial and temporal association of the chemically similar intrusive and extrusive igneous rocks indicates that the Galore Creek area is probably an eroded volcanic center. The Galore Creek intrusions commonly follow two orientations, one northeast and the other northwest. Post-intrusion and post-mineralization faulting follows these same orientations. Regionally, the Galore Creek district is interpreted to have undergone broad open folding, followed by the development of northerly-trending folds and thrust faults. The mineralized area is less deformed, so it is unclear whether the deformation occurred prior to, during, or subsequent to mineralization.
Copper Canyon, a satellite copper-gold resource located six kilometers east of the Central Zone of Galore Creek, shares a number of geological and geochemical similarities with the main Galore Creek deposits, including the occurrence of identical dike rock types, a similar sulphide suite, and occurrence within the same host volcanic succession. Regional stratigraphic relationships suggest that Copper Canyon represents a different volcanic center that is of the same age or date of origin as the Galore Creek deposits.
Mineralization
Mineralization at Galore Creek occurs primarily in volcanic and volcano-sedimentary rocks of the Stuhini Group and pipe-like breccias, adjacent to syenite stocks and dykes. Deposits trend north to northeast, following syenite contacts and structural breaks. The largest deposit is the northerly-elongated Central Zone, with the Bountiful zone partially superimposed. Smaller deposits peripheral to the Central Zone include: Southwest Zone, Junction, Butte, West Rim, West Fork and the Saddle zones.
Potassic alteration associated with the introduction of copper sulphides is the most widespread and dominant alteration type, most intense in the Central Zone. Chalcopyrite and bornite are most closely associated with secondary biotite and magnetite of the potassic alteration phases. At the northern and southern ends of the Central deposit, higher gold values occur, generally along with elevated concentrations of bornite and intense potassic alteration. In general, mineralization shows a progression from bornite laterally to chalcopyrite with increasing pyrite peripheral in the system.
Mineralization at Copper Canyon occurs primarily in a sub-volcanic syenite intrusive complex. This host lithology defines the primary difference from the main Galore Creek deposits. Chalcopyrite forms the primary sulfide mineralogy; bornite is rare. As at the Galore Creek project, mineralization is evenly disseminated and shows no apparent association with veining. The periphery of known mineralization contains elevated gold/copper ratios along with relatively higher concentrations of pyrite.
Metallurgy
The sulfide minerals at the Galore Creek project are predominately gold- and silver-bearing chalcopyrite, bornite and pyrite. A primary grind of 80% passing 200 microns provides sufficient rougher flotation liberation to separate the copper minerals from the pyrite and gangue. At this grind, the majority of the gold is either free or associated with the copper sulfides. The proposed treatment process uses conventional crushing and SAG and ball mill grinding, flotation to produce a precious-metal-bearing copper concentrate for shipment off-site.
Project History, Drilling and Exploration
Drilling History
Since initial discovery of the Galore Creek property in 1960 through 2013, approximately 311,181 meters were drilled in 1,212 core holes on the property. Most of this work has focused on the Central zone, with lesser amounts of work on eleven other target areas. Some zones have received only reconnaissance drilling. During the 1970s, drilling was principally confined to the Central zone but nine holes were also drilled on the North Junction zone. In 1989-1990, Mingold, an Anglo American subsidiary, drilled holes on the Southwest zone (eight holes, 1,026 meters), the North Rim showing (six holes, 546 meters), the Saddle zone (two holes, 226 meters) and two reconnaissance holes. The 1991 drill program was mainly directed at areas peripheral to the Central zone as well as exploration holes located in the Southwest, Butte, North Rim and Dry Creek zones.
The first drill program directed by us began in September 2003, and consisted of eight core holes targeting four broad areas of the deposit: the North Gold zone, South Gold zone, Central Replacement zone and Southwest zone. This program was responsible for the discovery of new mineralization, known as the Bountiful zone, found at depth below the South Gold Lens.
2006 Program
The 2006 drilling program included 67 holes and over 36,200 meters of primarily wide-spaced drilling to further define the deep Bountiful mineralization, which was discovered in 2003.
2007 Program
The 2007 drilling program at the Galore Creek project completed 15,000 meters of follow-up and exploration drilling. Targets concentrated on optimization of the mine schedule by targeting shallow moderate-grade resources that could displace low-grade stockpile material in years seven to nine of operations. Additional exploration focused on scoping potentially high-grade underground scenarios that could increase the value of the project.
2008 Program
The 2008 drilling program consisted of nine diamond drill holes totaling 2,050 meters. The main objectives of the program were to obtain acid base accounting data in the Central, Southwest, North Junction and Junction pits, to confirm legacy grades in the Junction pit, and to collect metallurgical data in the Central pit for engineering design.
2009 Program
There was no exploration program during 2009.
2010 Program
There were 9 drill holes, totaling 2,803 meters drilled into the Central zone during 2010 for resource infill and metallurgical testing purposes.
2011 Program
The 2011 drilling program included 10,000 meters of resource infill drilling to confirm previous results as well as to test the potential for upgrading and possible extensions of mineralization within the South Gold Lens and Bountiful areas of the Central pit.
2012 Program
The 2012 drilling program totaled 27,900 meters of resource infill and exploration drilling. The objective of the infill drilling was to increase resources and upgrade material in all categories. The exploration drilling resulted in the discovery of the Legacy zone adjacent to the Central reserve pit.
2013 Program
The 2013 drilling program totalled 11,649 meters of resource in-fill and exploration drilling, 9,157-meters of which targeted the Legacy zone. An additional 2,492 meters of exploration drilling was conducted to better understand geological features that could influence the mineralization in Legacy, identify mineralization trends, and explore possible extensions of known mineralized zones adjacent to Legacy. The 2013 program also demonstrated that the copper mineralization may extend beyond the initial Legacy discovery in the direction of the Bountiful mineralization. The mineralization remains open to the south, west, and at depth.
The Galore Creek project is host to seven copper-gold-silver prospects, five defined mineral resource areas, and numerous showings and conceptual target areas.
Sampling and Assaying
Historically from 1963 to 1991, drill core in mineralized zones was generally sampled in 3-meter intervals. The samples were tagged then split in half using a mechanical splitter. One half of the core was returned to the core box and the other half shipped to an outside laboratory for analysis. The core returned to the boxes remains on site as a record of the hole. Much of the core from the Central Zone was re-assayed as part of the 1991 exploration program. No site-specific standards, blanks or field duplicate samples were used in any of the previous exploration programs.
Sampling and assaying procedures used by us have been overseen by qualified professional geologists. All drill core from the 2003 through 2013 programs, except intervals of overburden and till material, were sampled. Drill core sampling occurred within a minimum of 1-meter and a maximum of 3-meter intervals. The core was cut in half using a diamond saw. Half of the core was taken as a sample and submitted to ALS Chemex (now ALS Minerals) Labs in Vancouver, British Columbia. The core that was returned to the box remains on site as a record of the hole. In addition to the core, control samples were inserted into the shipments at the approximate rate of one standard, one blank and one duplicate per 20 core samples.
Assay analysis for the 2003 through 2007 programs was carried out by ALS Chemex Labs of Vancouver, British Columbia. Samples were logged into a tracking system on arrival at ALS Chemex, and weighed. Samples were then crushed, dried, split, and pulverized. Gold assays were determined using fire analysis followed by an atomic absorption spectroscopy (AAS) and a default overlimit gravimetric finish. An additional 34-element suite was assayed by inductively coupled plasma - atomic emission spectrometry (ICP-AES) methodology, following nitric acid aqua regia digestion. The copper analyses were completed by AAS, following an aqua regia digestion. Sampling and assaying during the drilling from 2008 through 2010 used the same sample preparation, and gold assaying protocols as described above; however a 35-element suite was assayed using ICP-AES methodology, and copper analyses were completed by ICP-AES or AAS finish. 2011 through 2013 used the same sample preparation and gold and copper assaying protocols as in 2008-2010; however a 51-element suite was assayed using ICP-AES and ICP-MS (mass spectrometry) methodology.
Construction
On June 5, 2007, we announced that we had received the necessary federal and provincial authorizations and permits to allow our Directors to approve the start of construction at the Galore Creek project. The Directors’ approval for construction activities was contingent on receiving full provincial and federal authorization for the project. Federal authorization was posted to the Canadian Environmental Assessment Registry on June 4, 2007.
On July 31, 2007, the provincial government announced the issuance of a Mines Act permit for the Galore Creek project for construction of the access tunnel. An interim permit issued on July 4, 2007 authorized limited blasting to prepare and stabilize the rock face of the tunnel, as well as preparatory work for the sediment ponds. Receipt of the new permit authorized completion of the access road and tunnel and authorized the start of earthworks in the Galore Creek valley.
Construction Suspension
On November 26, 2007, we announced that NOVAGOLD and Teck had reached the decision to suspend construction activities at the Galore Creek project. A review and completion of the first season of construction indicated substantially higher capital costs and a longer construction schedule for the project. This, combined with reduced operating margins as a result of the stronger Canadian dollar, would make the project, as conceived and permitted, uneconomic at what was considered then to be industry consensus long-term metal prices. NOVAGOLD and Teck continue to view the Galore Creek project as a substantial resource and are working to identify an alternative development strategy that may allow for the resumption of construction.
Prior to the suspension of construction, substantial work was completed at the Galore Creek project, including clearing 80% of the 135-kilometer road right-of-way, completing 66 kilometers of pioneer road, installing a number of key bridges and initiating work on the road access tunnel into the Galore Creek valley. During the construction suspension and optimization period, the partners have maintained and intend to continue to maintain the existing infrastructure.
While permits granted for the original project design remain in place, any alternative project design will require new or additional permits before construction can resume.
Pre-Feasibility Study
During 2010, GCMC reviewed a number of optimization scenarios for the Galore Creek project with the objective of expanding throughput, relocating the project facilities to allow for easier construction and future expansion, and reducing the risks associated with construction and operations. Based on these studies, GCMC identified a preferred project design and commenced work on the PFS.
Primary changes to the project included:
·Relocation of the tailings facility allowing for construction of a conventional tailings dam;
·Relocation of the processing facilities allowing for future expansion;
·Realignment of the tunnel and access road; and
·Increase of daily throughput to a nominal 95,000 tonnes per day.
Project plans envision the ore being crushed in the Galore Creek valley and then conveyed through the tunnel and along the access road to the processing plant. From there, concentrate would be piped along the remainder of the access road to Hwy 37. A trade off study will identify the best alternative for transport of concentrate to market. The project would primarily use electric power, with a power line built along the access road to tie into the 287-kV transmission line at the Bob Quinn substation. Some components of the revised Galore Creek mine plan, such as the mill and tailings location, would require new permits or amendments to existing permits. The majority of permits required for road construction remain in good standing. GCMC could continue with road and bridge work as the project moves through the feasibility stage, with the objective of shortening the construction timeline and reducing the need for helicopter support.
On July 27, 2011, we announced the results of the PFS for the Galore Creek project. The PFS estimates the Galore Creek project has proven and probable mineral reserves of 528 million tonnes grading 0.59% copper, 0.32 grams per tonne gold and 6.02 grams per tonne silver at an NSR cut-off of C$10.08 per tonne for estimated contained metal of 6.8 billion pounds of copper, 5.45 million ounces of gold and 102.1 million ounces of silver. In addition, the Galore Creek project has estimated measured and indicated mineral resources (exclusive of mineral reserves) of 286.7 million tonnes grading 0.33% copper, 0.27 grams per tonne gold and 3.64 grams/tonne silver for estimated contained metal of 2.07 billion pounds of copper, 2.53 million ounces of gold and 33.54 million ounces of silver, and estimated inferred mineral resources of 346.6 million tonnes grading 0.42% copper, 0.24 grams per tonne gold and 4.28 grams per tonne silver for estimated contained metal of 3.23 billion pounds of copper, 2.70 million ounces of gold and 47.73 million ounces of silver at an NSR cut-off of C$10.08 per tonne. Mineral resources that are not mineral reserves do not have demonstrated economic viability. The PFS initial capital cost estimate for the Galore Creek project was C$5.2 billion dollars. Capital costs are estimated with an accuracy range of +25% / -20% (including contingency). The project’s estimated net present value (NPV7%), using the PFS base case metal price assumptions set forth below, was assessed at C$137 million on a post-tax basis. The corresponding post-tax IRR of the project was estimated at 7.4%. Base case metal prices used in the PFS were $2.65 per pound copper, $1,100 per ounce gold and $18.50 per ounce silver with a foreign exchange rate of $0.90 = C$1.00.
Mining of the Galore Creek deposit is planned as a conventional truck-shovel open-pit mining operation at peak rates of 370,000 tonnes per day to support a nominal processing throughput of 95,000 tonnes per day. Life of mine throughput average is approximately 84,000 tonnes per day due to the milling circuit constraining throughput as harder rock is encountered deeper in the open pits. The current 528 million tonne mineral reserve estimate is expected to support a mine life of approximately 18 years. Using a conventional crushing, grinding and flotation circuit, the project would produce a high-quality copper concentrate with significant gold and silver credits.
Reserve and Resource Estimate
Proven and Probable Mineral Reserve Estimate
Effective Date July 11, 2011, Jay Melnyk, P.Eng.
Notes:
(1)Mineral reserves are contained within measured and indicated pit designs, and supported by a mine plan, featuring variable throughput rates, stockpiling and cut-off optimization. The pit designs and mine plan were optimized on diluted grades using the following economic and technical parameters: Metal prices for copper, gold and silver of $2.50 per pound, $1,050 per ounce, and $16.85 per ounce, respectively. Mining and ore based costs (process, G&A and mine general) of C$1.60 per tonne mined and C$10.08 per tonne milled respectively; an exchange rate of $0.91 to C$1.00; variable recovery versus head grade relationships for both oxidized and non-oxidized material; appropriate smelting, refining and transportation costs; and inter ramp pit slope angles varying from 42º to 55º. The mineral reserves are reported in accordance with NI 43-101, which differs from SEC Industry Guide 7. The project is without known reserves as defined under SEC Industry Guide 7. See Cautionary Note to U.S. Investors Regarding Estimates of Measured, Indicated and Inferred Resources and Proven and Probable Reserves, above.
(2)Mineral reserves are reported using a ‘cash flow grade’ ($NSR/SAG mill hour) cut-off which was varied from year to year in the scheduling process to optimize NPV. The cash flow grade is a function of the NSR ($ per tonne) and SAG mill throughput (tonnes per hour). The net smelter return (NSR) was calculated as follows: NSR = Recoverable Revenue - TCRC (on a per tonne basis), where: NSR = Net Smelter Return; TCRC = Transportation and Refining Costs; Recoverable Revenue = Revenue in Canadian dollars for recoverable copper, recoverable gold, and recoverable silver using the economic and technical parameters mentioned above. SAG throughputs were modeled by correlation with alteration types.
(3)The life of mine strip ratio is 2.16.
(4)Rounding as required by reporting guidelines may result in apparent summation differences between tonnes, grade and contained metal content.
(5)Tonnage and grade measurements are in metric units. Contained gold and silver ounces are reported as troy ounces, contained copper pounds as imperial pounds. See Cautionary Note to U.S. Investors Regarding Estimates of Measured, Indicated and Inferred Resources and Proven and Probable Reserves, above.
Measured and Indicated Resources Estimate (exclusive of reserves)
Inferred Mineral Resource Estimate
Effective Date July 11, 2011, G. Kulla, P.Geo.
Notes:
(1)Mineral resources are exclusive of Mineral reserves. Mineral resources that are not Mineral reserves do not have demonstrated economic viability. See Cautionary Note to U.S. Investors Regarding Estimates of Measured, Indicated and Inferred Resources and Proven and Probable Reserves, above.
(2)Mineral resources are contained within a conceptual measured, indicated and inferred optimized pit shell using the same economic and technical parameters as used for Mineral reserves. Tonnages are assigned based on proportion of the block below topography. The overburden/bedrock boundary has been assigned on a whole block basis. Commodity prices used to constrain the Mineral Resources are $2.50 per pound copper, $1,050 per ounce gold, and $16.85 per ounce silver.
(3)Mineral resources have been estimated using a constant NSR cut-off of $10.08 per tonne milled. The Net Smelter Return (NSR) was calculated as follows: NSR = Recoverable Revenue - TCRC (on a per tonne basis), where: NSR = Diluted Net Smelter Return; TCRC = Transportation and Refining Costs; Recoverable Revenue = Revenue in Canadian dollars for recoverable copper, recoverable gold, and recoverable silver using silver using the economic and technical parameters used for mineral reserves.
(4)Rounding as required by reporting guidelines may result in apparent summation differences between tonnes, grade and contained metal content.
(5)Tonnage and grade measurements are in metric units. Contained gold and silver ounces are reported as troy ounces, contained copper pounds as imperial pounds.
(6)Inferred resources are in addition to measured and indicated resources. Inferred resources have a great amount of uncertainty as to their existence and whether they can be mined legally or economically. It cannot be assumed that all or any part of the inferred resources will ever be upgraded to a higher category. See Cautionary Note to U.S. Investors Regarding Estimates of Measured, Indicated and Inferred Resources and Proven and Probable Reserves, above.
(7)Tonnage and grade measurements are in metric units. Contained gold and silver ounces are reported as troy ounces, contained copper pounds as imperial pounds.
Environmental Assessment and Permitting
The Galore Creek environmental assessment process was initiated in February 2004. As part of the environmental assessment process, a series of public meetings were held in various communities in the Galore Creek region, with the public and regulator comment periods running from July 10, 2006 to September 8, 2006 and September 22, 2006, respectively. The Tahltan Central Council, which was actively engaged in the entire assessment process, submitted their comments to the British Columbia Environmental Assessment Office (BCEAO) on October 18, 2006, including a letter of support from the Chair of the Tahltan Central Council. The permitting process for the Galore Creek project progressed as expected resulting in the receipt of the Provincial Environmental Assessment Certificate in February 2007. Federal authorizations were received during the second quarter of 2007.
Although construction at the Galore Creek project was suspended in late 2007, the Canadian federal and provincial authorizations to proceed remain in good standing as do a majority of the key permits required to continue construction. Specifically, since the Province has determined substantial construction of the project was initiated, the previous environmental assessment certificate remains valid without a time limit.
The PFS project design and configuration is different from the design that was permitted under the original environmental assessment certificate and that received federal approval. Some of the most significant changes are:
·Better understanding of geochemistry, resulting in a different approach to waste rock and tailings management;
·Simplified waste and water management strategy in the Galore Creek valley plant site and tailings relocated outside of the Galore Creek valley, in a new previously unaffected watershed (West More);
·Deletion of a 30-kilometer section of access road down the Sphaler Valley to the Porcupine River and the Scott Simpson Valley, significantly reducing potential environmental impacts and geohazards;
·Deletion of the airstrip that was to be constructed in the Porcupine River Valley; and
·Addition of new load-out facilities at the Port of Stewart.
While the PFS configuration is considered an improvement, with reduced overall environmental impacts, it is anticipated that a new environmental assessment process will be requested by the regulators to approve the changes. This will involve parallel and harmonized reviews by both the BCEAO and the Canadian Environmental Assessment Agency (CEAA). A comprehensive study report will be required through CEAA. It is anticipated that the entire environmental assessment review process would require approximately two years from submission of a project description to issuance of a new Environmental Assessment Certificate (by the provincial government) and a decision by the Federal Minister of Environment.
The existing Special Use Permit (SUP) for construction of the access road remains valid as long as there are no proposed changes to the SUP, thereby permitting GCMC to resume construction of the access road without further permitting. Changes to the current SUP will ultimately be required around the tailings storage facility, plus a branch to the south portal of the tunnel to the Galore Creek valley. Application of an amendment to make these changes will be needed once the environmental assessment process has been completed.
Existing permits associated with the existing construction camps, including water use and waste discharge, will continue to be maintained. Applications for all other project permits will be needed following completion of the environmental assessment process, although the time-critical permits, such as those needed for starting the tunneling can be prepared concurrent with the environmental assessment such that there should be little lag time following new environmental assessment certification before tunneling could begin.
Current Activities
Galore Creek Mining Corporation and the Tahltan Nation have submitted written comments opposing the proposed More Creek Hydro project because the impacts of the project would be significant, including the destruction of riverine fish habitat and fisheries, loss of cultural sites, and inundation of the Galore Creek access road. Alaska Hydro Corporation, a British Columbia based company, proposes to develop the More Creek Hydro project, a 75-megawatt hydroelectric facility with reservoir storage, which would be located on More Creek, approximately 130 kilometers north of Stewart, in British Columbia. As proposed, the More Creek Hydroelectric project would generate approximately 348 gigawatt hours of electricity per year, and its reservoir storage area would cover approximately 2,680 hectares of the More Creek drainage area basin. Both the British Columbia Environmental Assessment Office and the Canadian Environmental Assessment Agency have indicated that they will require preparation of environmental assessments for the More Creek Hydro project. The More Creek Hydro project remains in the pre-application phase. GCMC intends to continue to monitor the proposed More Creek Hydro project and to participate in the related federal and provincial permitting processes to ensure that the proposed project does not adversely affect the Galore Creek project.
In September 2017, GCMC and the Tahltan Central Government signed a Negotiation Agreement that provides a framework for the parties to negotiate regarding the possible renewal, amendment, or replacement of the Participation Agreement dated February 10, 2006 between the Tahltan and GCMC. The Negotiation Agreement expressly extends the term of the Participation Agreement until a new agreement is executed or the parties otherwise terminate the Participation Agreement or Negotiation Agreement. The Tahltan Central Government and GCMC initiated negotiations in the third quarter of 2017, which negotiations are continuing.
For additional information on current activities, see section Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, below.
Copper Canyon Acquisition
On May 20, 2011, we completed the acquisition of Copper Canyon Resources Ltd. (“Copper Canyon”) a junior exploration company whose principal asset was its 40% joint venture interest in the Copper Canyon copper-gold-silver property that is adjacent to the Galore Creek project. A wholly-owned subsidiary of NOVAGOLD held the remaining 60% joint venture interest in the Copper Canyon property, which was subsequently transferred to the Galore Creek Partnership. The Copper Canyon property is subject to a 2% NSR royalty which may be reduced to 0.5% by the payment of C$2.0 million to the royalty holder.
Item 3.