ITEM 2. PROPERTIES.
KARASU PROPERTY
The Karasu Rare Earth Metals Project consists of a single 1480.9 ha Heavy Minerals Placer concession in Sakarya Province of Northern Turkey. The coordinates of the concession are described in Table 1 and Map 1 below. Historical exploration on the property by Turkey’s Directorate General of Mineral Research and Exploration indicate excellent potential for further development of Rare Earth element extraction.
Table 1:
Mining in Turkey
The fabled wealth of Croesus, the king of Lydia in 6th century, B.C., came from the placer mining of gold in western Turkey. The island of Cyprus, from which the word ‘cupros’ or copper is derived, lies 32 km south of Turkey and was the source of copper for many Mediterranean cultures. The historic name of Turkey and the peninsula that forms the Asian part of Turkey is known as Anatolia, ‘Anadolu’ in Turkish, which means several things including ‘the mother lode.’
The continents of Africa, Asia and Europe all meet under Turkey. The African and Arabian plates join there. With two subduction zones and three crunching plates, Turkey is mineral-rich and the potential for new base and precious metals discoveries using modern exploration techniques is considerable, however, few of the mineralized areas of Turkey’s mining districts have been adequately explored.
Evidence of mining dating back over nine thousand years and a complex geology reflected in the diversity of its industrial mineral deposits and base metal reserves, it comes as a bit as a surprise to learn that the modern mining industry in Turkey is still in its infancy.
The lack of access to foreign capital during the last decades, a protective mining legislation and the “explore as you mine” mentality has left most of the rich and diverse mineral deposits untouched.
Recent reform of the Turkish mining legislation in favor of private and foreign investors, and the fast growing demand for metallic commodities has motivated local companies to cooperate with international partners and to push the lagging mining industry up to modern standards.
The injection of foreign capital, technology and know-how into a relatively young market has changed the outlook for the development of the country’s over 4,400 identified mineral deposits.
Rare Earth Elements
Rare earth elements (REEs) are a group of 17 elements on the periodic table, used extensively in high-technology applications like mobile phones, electric vehicles and low carbon technologies. It is the unique chemical and physical properties of REEs, such as their high thermal and electrical conductivity, magnetism, luminosity, catalytic and optical properties, make them indispensable components of high-tech applications.
Many of today’s industries face the challenge to develop higher performing products within increasingly stringent environmental and energy efficiency guidelines. The following table outlines some of the critical applications made possible by the use of REEs:
REE Mining
95% of the world’s REEs originate from just two mineral sources, Bastnaesite and Monazite. Each of these minerals contains different percentages of the 17 rare earth elements. The intrinsic mix of REEs found in various minerals, plus their similar electrical, magnetic and chemical characteristics makes separation of the single elements a complex task for highly skilled specialists.
Black Sea Heavy Mineral Sands
The Turkish Black Sea Coast where the Company’s Karasu property is located contains substantial reserves of heavy-mineral sands with high, economically feasible grades of monazite, rutile, ilmenite and magnetite. Monazite
The monazite portion of the identified heavy mineral sand deposits at the Turkish Black Sea coast are of the monazite-(Ce) composition. Typically, monazite-(Ce) contains about 45 - 48 % cerium, 24% lanthanum, 17% neodymium, 5% praseodymium, and minor quantities of samarium, gadolinium, and yttrium.
Monazite placer deposits are economically proven sources of Rare Earth Oxides (REOs) and can be mined and separated with simple, cost-efficient infrastructure. The barrier for a project-feasibility is therefore lower and the time from mine to market much shorter compared to other types of REE deposits.
The Monazite deposits at the Turkish Black Sea coast have been originally identified by MTA, the Turkish General Directorate of Mineral Research & Exploration. Geomorphological studies conducted in the area showed favorable mineral assemblage suites and formations for heavy minerals.
Mining of Heavy Mineral Sands is performed by open-pit methods, which may include wet techniques such as dredging or dry methods using trucks, loaders, scrapers and bulldozers.
The heavy mineral fractions of the ore are recovered by screening and gravity concentration. Minerals are separated by the use of cones, spirals, and shaking tables. The final concentration of the monazite is done using high-tension electrostatic separators and by magnetic separators of different intensities.
PLACER MINING AND PROCESSING
PEEK CLAIMS
We purchased a 100% interest in eight mineral claims known as the Peek Claims, located in Canada’s Yukon Territory, from Glen MacDonald of Vancouver, British Columbia, by an agreement dated November 2, 2001, for consideration of $2,500. At the time of the acquisition of the Peek Claims, we were seeking a potential high-grade gold/silver project. There was, at the time, an extensive technical file available detailing the history of exploration on the Peek Claims property. We also considered the existence of a nearby milling plant as advantageous. Mr. Timmins, P.Eng. and Mr. Laurie Stephenson, P.Eng. were involved in assisting us in the selection process.
The Yukon Quartz Mining Act (the “YQMA”) and its regulations govern the procedures involved in the location, recording and maintenance of mineral titles in the Yukon Territory. The YQMA also governs the issuance of quartz mining licenses which are long-term licenses to produce minerals. Under the YQMA, title to Yukon quartz mineral claims can only be held by individuals or Yukon corporations. Because of this regulation, Barclay McDonald, Glen MacDonald’s son, is holding the mineral claim in trust for us until we can determine whether there are significant mineral reserves on our claim. If we determine that there are significant mineral reserves on our claim we will incorporate a Yukon subsidiary to hold title to the claim and Barclay MacDonald will transfer the mineral claim to the subsidiary. The transfer will be at no cost to us other than the costs associated with the incorporation of the Yukon subsidiary.
Location, Infrastructure and Access
The Peek Claims cover a broad northwest trending ridge south of Pugh Peak (referred to locally as “Gold Hill”), extending from the Wheaton River to Hodnett Lakes. The property lies 40 km south of Whitehorse, the capital of the Yukon Territory, at geographical coordinates 60 16’N latitude, 135 06’W longitude, see Figures 1 and 2 below. Whitehorse is a modern city with a population of 25,000, with most services available for conducting mineral exploration. Daily scheduled flights link the city with Vancouver, British Columbia, Edmonton, Alberta and Fairbanks, Alaska.
The Peek Claims are accessible via an all-weather gravel and paved government-maintained road system which includes a tidewater port road link to Skagway, Alaska. The claims are linked by a secondary road with the Mount Skukum gold mill approximately 12.4 miles away. The Mount Skukum gold mill is a modern gold and silver production facility that is capable of producing both doré bars and metal concentrates depending on the type of ore being processed. The mill is currently idle.
The Alaska and Klondike Highways, and the Wheaton River-Mount Skukum all-season gravel road provide access to the area. A four-wheel drive road follows Thompson Creek from the Wheaton Road to the property. Presently access to the Peek Claims is on foot, by all terrain vehicles or by helicopter because the road is closed by a slide. Further exploration of the property would require approximately $2,000 of road construction work to make the road accessible. We intend to initiate road construction work to make the road accessible prior to commencing Phase IV of our recommended exploration program, as described below.
Physiography, Climate and Vegetation
The Wheaton River district lies in the Boundary Ranges of the Coast Mountains, a rolling uplands area featuring prominent peaks and steep-walled stream and river valleys. Glacial action has modified major river valleys to deep U-shaped drainages with terrace and outwash deposits. Topographically, the area becomes progressively more severe to the southwest, culminating in mountains and ice fields at the headwaters of the Wheaton and Watson Rivers.
A maximum elevation of 6,069 feet is reached on the Peek Claims while the lowest lying feature nearby is Wheaton River at 2,900 feet. The claims cover a barren northwest-trending ridge extending from the Wheaton River to Hodnett Lakes. Outcrop is common on steep slopes descending from the rounded ridge top. The effects of local alpine glaciation are evident on the northern side of Pugh Peak, where cirques and tarns are present. The upland portion of Gold Hill is a rolling grassy plain with outcrop of less than 5%. Consequently most of the geological interpretation is based upon bulldozer trenches to expose bedrock at depths of ranging from six to sixteen feet.
Southwestern Yukon has a dry sub-arctic climate, locally modified by the Pacific Ocean. Summer temperatures average 12°C and annual precipitation totals approximately sixteen inches. The exploration season lasts from May until October.
Vegetation in the upland consists of dwarf grasses, moss and lichen. Timber is restricted to the main valleys at elevations below 3,936 feet.
History of Exploration
The Peek Claims property has been progressively explored since 1983 with work to date including road construction, bulldozer trenching, grid controlled geophysical, geochemical, and geological surveying and prospecting.
The Wheaton River/Lake Bennett district was first explored by prospectors traveling along the major lakes and rivers of southwestern Yukon in the early 1890’s. More intensive exploration began in 1906 after the discovery of free gold and gold-silver tellurides on Gold Hill. Wagon roads were built along the Wheaton River, Thompson Creek and Stevens Creek to provide access to numerous adits and pits on Mount Anderson. Limited mining of high grade gold and silver bearing ore occurred on the Gold Reef vein at the northeastern end of Gold Hill and on the Becker-Cochran (Whirlwind) property on the west face of Mount Anderson.
From the mid 1920’s to the late 1960’s, little exploration of significance took place. By the 1970’s, many of the old showings were restaked as an increase in the value of base and precious metals rekindled the interest of prospectors and mining companies in the area. The Venus and Arctic mines again operated on Montana Mountain from 1969 to 1971. The Venus Mine was again rehabilitated during 1980 to 1981 and a new mill was installed at the southern end of Windy Arm, but no ore was processed.
On the area covered by the Peek Claims, recent exploration started in 1984 to 1985 when the Wheaton River Joint Venture performed prospecting, grid development, mapping, geochemical and geophysical surveys, bulldozer trenching and road building. Mineralized quartz veins and stockworks were discovered in several locations along a five kilometer long ridge on the claim property. The property was owned by the Wheaton River Syndicate from 1983 to 1986.
During 1987 and 1988, Ranger Pacific Minerals Ltd. and others conducted additional geochemical and geophysical surveys. Also, blast trenching work was undertaken to better define target zones previously identified and to further explore the property. The Peek Claims property was owned by Ranger Pacific Minerals Ltd. from 1987 to 1990.
During the period from 1991 to 2001, the property was owned by Glen MacDonald of Vancouver, British Columbia. From 1991 to 2001, exploration work on the property has included bulldozer trenching, road construction, geological mapping and prospecting. Exploration work conducted from 1984 to 1998 covered most of the Gold Hill area, including but not limited to, the area of the Peek Claims.
In 2001, we purchased a 100% interest in the Peek Claims from Glen MacDonald by way of a purchase agreement dated November 2, 2001.
Although exploratory work on the claims conducted by prior owners has indicated some potential showings of mineralization, we are uncertain as to the reliability of these prior exploration results and thus we are uncertain as to whether a commercially viable mineral deposit exists on our mineral claims. Further exploration of these mineral claims is required before a final determination as to their viability can be made.
Mineralization
Precious metal values to date have occurred on the Peek Claims in two types of quartz veins: (i) quartz veins up to 6.5 feet wide in granite and meta-sedimentary/metavolcanic rocks, and (ii) narrow quartz and/or quartz-calcite veins in limestones, quartzites and schists; and silver occurs disseminated in siliceous pyritic schist.
Quartz veins in the first group have a general northwest orientation and are continuous over long distances. The Gold Reef vein on the northwest end of Gold Hill is considered a typical example, and has been traced by underground workings, and surface pits for over 984 feet where the average width has been 5 feet.
Quartz and quartz-calcite veins appear less continuous and have more random orientations. They are generally spatially related to Eocene intrusive rocks.
Alteration and accessory minerals present around the vein systems include clays (kaolinite, alunite) black and green chalcedonic breccias, fluorite, barite, pyrite and hematite. Carbonatization is common in andesitic rocks near veins, and carbonatization and massive chloritization are present in the shear zones in andesitic rocks.
Mineralization on the Peek Claims occurs as either of the following veins and siliceous stockworks:
1. 	
Epithermal gold-silver veins associated with northeast-trending normal faults hosted with bi- modal calc-alkaline andesitic volcanics of the Skukum Group and associated with Eocene rhyolite porphyry dykes outside the volcanic complex.
2. 	
Gold-silver and telluride bearing quartz veins spatially related to the “Tally-Ho Shear Zone”, sheared and chloritized mafic volcanic rocks and nearby sheared or unsheared granitic rocks and Jurassic Laberge Group arkosic sedimentary rocks.
Compliance with Governmental Regulation
We will be required to comply with all regulations, rules and directives of governmental authorities and agencies applicable to the exploration of minerals in the Yukon Territory. The main agency that governs the exploration of minerals in the Yukon Territory, Canada, is the Minerals Management Branch of the Yukon Department of Energy Mines and Resources.
The material legislation applicable to us is the YQMA, administered by the Minerals Management Branch. The YQMA and its regulations govern the procedures involved in the location, recording and maintenance of mineral titles in the Yukon Territory. The Government of the Yukon Territory retains freehold ownership of the land which is subject to the mineral claims.
All mineral exploration activities carried out on a mineral claim or mining lease in the Yukon must be in compliance with the Yukon Quartz Mining Land Use Regulations (the “Yukon Regulations”). The Yukon Regulations apply to all mines during exploration, development, construction, production, closure,reclamation and abandonment. Also, the Yukon Regulations contain standards for exploration activities including construction and maintenance, site preparation, drilling, trenching and work in and about a water body. An annual exploration expenditure of approximately $80 per claim is required by the YQMA to maintain the claims in good standing. Alternatively an annual payment of approximately $80 per claim in lieu of work is sanctioned by the YQMA to maintain claims in good standing. Our annual cost of compliance with the YQMA is presently approximately $672 per year.
We will also have to sustain the cost of reclamation and environmental remediation for all exploration work undertaken. Reclamation is the process of bringing the land back to its natural state after completion of exploration activities. Environmental remediation refers to the physical activity of taking steps to remediate, or remedy, any environmental damage caused, i.e. refilling trenches after sampling or cleaning up fuel spills.
Recommendation of Geological Report and Geological Exploration Program
In June 2002, we hired Mr. W. Timmins, P.Eng to provide an initial Geological Report on the Peek Claims. Mr. Timmins has 39 years experience as a consulting geologist. He graduated from the Provincial Institute of Mining in Haileybury, Ontario, Canada in 1956 and attended Michigan Technological University from 1962 to 1965. He has been a licensed professional Engineer (Geology) in British Columbia since 1969. The purpose of this report was to evaluate the area of the claim group, and the prior exploration work conducted on the claims, and to recommend an exploration program. This review was based upon previous explorations performed on the Peek Claims, including soil geochemical and electromagnetic surveys, geological mapping, bulldozer and blast trenching and underground drifting. Mr. Timmins is familiar with the Peek Claims, having consulted on exploration programs conducted there during the 1980’s and later visited the property in 1999 and 2001. In his geological report, Mr. Timmins, recommended that a four phase exploration program, at an estimated cost of $140,000, be undertaken on the property to assess its potential to host high grade gold mineralization within quartz and sulphide veins. The four phase program consists of the following:
Contingent upon favorable results of Phase I and Phase II of our geological exploration program, Mr. Timmins recommended a further Phase III program of geological mapping, geophysical surveying and sampling, to select targets for the Phase IV drilling program consisting of 1,200 metres (approximately 3,936 feet) of diamond drilling, again contingent upon favorable results of Phase III. A Phase IV drilling program would be dependent upon a number of factors such as the geologists’ recommendations based upon previous phases and our available funds. See “Present Condition of the Property and Current State of Exploration” below.
The projected costs of each phase of our exploration program included provision for mobilization and support costs. The expenditures made by us in the exploration of our mineral claim may not result in the discovery of mineral deposits. Problems such as unusual or unexpected formations and other conditions are involved in mineral exploration and often result in unsuccessful exploration efforts. If the results of exploration do not reveal viable commercial mineralization, we may decide to abandon our claim and acquire new claims for new exploration. The acquisition of additional claims will be dependent upon our possessing sufficient capital resources at the time in order to purchase such claims. If no funding is available, we may be forced to abandon our operations.
We have complete Phases I through III of the recommended exploration program. In the event that we proceed with Phase IV, we intend to implement a drilling program which will target any mineralized zones or zones of interest identified in earlier phases’ exploration results. The results of any drilling will be used to assess whether further geological exploration and drilling of identified mineralized areas is warranted. The funding required for the drilling program and our ability to complete the drilling program is expected to be dependent on the amount of funds we have available for exploration and our exploration priorities. Completion of our planned Phase IV drilling program is estimated to cost $120,000 and is expected to include the following:
(a) 	
Hiring of local contractors familiar with the mining region and drill conditions to perform the drilling operations and supply the drill and all other equipment and drill technicians required to perform the drilling operations;
(b) 	
Oversight of drilling program by a Professional Mining Engineer or Certified Geologist;
(c) 	
Outside laboratory analysis, particularly for prospective lode gold;
(d) 	
In-house and external review of results, including any feasibility studies; and
(e) 	
Hiring of lab technicians.
The primary expenses related to the drilling program are expected to be labor and contract costs, including transportation and on-site support.
The number of personnel involved in the drilling is expected to be four drilling personnel and/or a foreman and geologist. All personnel are expected to be contract employees. The geologist is expected to be the onsite technical person who will be able to evaluate and direct the program. We believe these types of contract employees are readily available, if needed.
We currently do not plan to execute our Phase IV exploration strategy during fiscal 2011.
Present Condition of the Property and Current State of Exploration
In years prior to 2011, we conducted exploration activities on the Peek Claims to determine whether there is commercially exploitable gold and silver mineralization or other metals. The following is a summary of the status of our exploration program on the Peek Claims:
Summary of Phase I - Exploration Program Results
The results of our Phase I exploration program delineated three main zones of mineralization in addition to other mineralized showings that warrant additional exploration work. The three main mineralization zones identified by our geologist are described as follows:
(i) 	
the North grid, containing moderate gold-silver and silver-lead soil geochemical anomalies and include intense “spot” highs;
(ii) 	
the north end of Gold Hill which has a moderate to strong VLF-EM conductor and significant gold and silver values in quartz veins carrying galena and tetrahedrite occurring in the gully at the north end of Gold Hill and in float trains on the ridge top of Gold Hill; and
(iii) 	
the south end of Gold Hill, in which gold-silver bearing galena and tetrahedrite mineralization has been identified.
Our geologist concluded that the results of Phase I warranted a further program of exploration.
Summary of Phase II - Exploration Program Results
The second phase consisted of detailed geophysical surveys utilizing new and more sensitive geophysical techniques to enhance the data that previously existed on the claims. Our work focused specifically upon the already known areas which our consultant had indicated may host minerals. This phase also included a detailed field examination and study of known mineral zones including localized geophysical surveys. Phase II was completed in late 2003 and we received a geological report on the results in April, 2004.
The results of our Phase II exploration program confirmed the anomaly concerning the gold-silver bearing galena and tetrahedrite mineralization developing along the contacts on the north and south ends of Gold Hill. The anomaly was confirmed in the more detailed “vector geophysics survey” and warrants further exploration according to our geologist. Our geologist concluded that the results of Phase II confirmed that the geological review identified areas which warranted a further program of exploration. The report recommends further evaluation of data obtained from the detailed geophysical surveying, which demonstrated that the areas evaluated have a geophysical signature that could indicate an unseen depth or length extent, and recommended further geological surveying and sampling to identify and confirm targets for the Phase IV drilling.
Summary of Phase III - Exploration Program Results
In 2005, our geologist visited the Peek Claims property to conduct testing on areas of interest indicated by Phase II of our geological program for prospective gold-silver mineralization. New showings were located and sampled. The samples were submitted for analysis and we received our geologist’s report with the assay result of Phase III in April 2006.
According to the Phase III report, during the 2005 exploration season, our geologist completed detailed prospecting and geological investigation of a portion of the claims with geophysical anomalies identified during 2003. Samples of vein material present as “float” were collected, reviewed and submitted for geochemical analysis. Our geologist confirmed that the original epithermal vein systems contained copper, whereas the 2005 discovery contained copper in silver-deficient chalcopyrite. Six samples returned copper values ranging from 1,030 parts per million (ppm) (0.100%) to 4,974 ppm (0.497%) while two samples contained trace amounts.
In April 2006, we received the geological report on the results of Phase III of our 2005 exploration program. During the 2005 exploration season we completed detailed prospecting and geological investigation of a portion of the claims with geophysical anomalies identified during 2003. Samples of vein material present as “float” were collected, reviewed and submitted for geochemical analysis. Our geologist concluded that these results confirm earlier sample analyses by the Company and others. Prior to proceeding with Phase IV, our geologist recommends further geological engineering on the Peek Claims properties to define the exact source areas for the known and new vein float material because frost action may have moved the vein material further than originally assumed. Our geologist recommends a total of $10,000 to be reserved for a two stage delineation program.
During the summer exploration season of 2006, we proceeded with the first phase of the delineation program. A field crew selected one of the sample sites and excavated a pit nearby, upslope, to examine the soil profile and suggest where the bedrock source for the float might occur. Boulder-rich overburden was present to a depth of seven feet, including more fragments of sulphide-rich quartz. Below seven feet the ground is frozen by permafrost and the quartz vein fragments discontinued. Thus, our geologist concluded the source of the float lies further upslope and perhaps is within the geophysical conductors located earlier. A detailed, close-spaced, soil geochemical survey over the conductors using a plugger style overburden sampling drill was recommended to locate the bed rock source of the mineralization.
Phase IV - Exploration Program
In the event that we proceed with Phase IV of our exploration program, we will implement a drilling program expected to take place over a period of two weeks, which will target any mineralized zone or zones of interest identified in our Phase I, II and III exploration results. The results of any drilling will be used to assess whether further geological exploration and drilling of identified mineralized areas is warranted. The funding required for the drilling program and our ability to complete the drilling program will be dependent on the amount of funds we have available for exploration and our corporate priorities.
We will not be able to determine whether or not our mineral claims contain a commercially exploitable mineral deposit, or reserve, until appropriate exploratory work is done and an economic evaluation based on that work concludes economic viability.
Peek Claim Status
The Peek claims are located in the Whitehorse Mining District of Yukon Territory. The property consists of eight claims as detailed in Table 1 below. Claims such as these are administered under the provisions of the YQMA by the supervising mining recorder located in Whitehorse. An annual exploration expenditure of approximately $80 per claim is required by the YQMA to maintain the claims in good standing. Alternatively an annual payment of approximately $80 per claim in lieu of work is sanctioned by the YQMA to maintain claims in good standing. Our annual cost of compliance with the YQMA is presently approximately $672 per year.
Table 1 - Claim Status
COMPETITION
We are an exploration stage company. We compete with other mineral resource exploration and development companies for financing and for the acquisition of new mineral properties. Many of the mineral resource exploration and development companies with whom we compete have greater financial and technical resources than us. Accordingly, these competitors may be able to spend greater amounts on acquisitions of mineral properties of merit, on exploration of their mineral properties and on development of their mineral properties. In addition, they may be able to afford greater geological expertise in the targeting and exploration of mineral properties. This competition could result in competitors having mineral properties of greater quality and interest to prospective investors who may finance additional exploration and development. This competition could adversely impact on our ability to finance further exploration and to achieve the financing necessary for us to develop our mineral properties.
EMPLOYEES
We have no employees as of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We generally conduct our business through agreements with consultants and arms-length third parties.
ITEM 3.