ITEM 2. PROPERTY
Gaoping Phosphate Property
Gaoping Phosphate which is part of Tanjiachang phosphate district is located in NEE 80°direction of Chenxi County town with straight-line distance 26 km and is under jurisdiction of Tanjiachang village, Chenxi county of Hunan Province. Geographical coordinates of mining permit’s ranges:
Longitude East 110°26 '15 "-110°27 '05", Latitude North 28°01 '49"-28°03'14".
Geological coordinates of Tanjiachang phosphate district’s ranges:
Longitude East 110° 25 '15 "- 110° 30 '00", Latitude North 28°00 '00"-28° 07'30". The area is about 32km2.
The location of the property is shown in the following map.
The property is located in Tanjiachang of Chenxi county, Hunan Province of China. Chenxi county is about 250 km from Zhangjiajie city and about 120 km from Huaihua city. Both cities have airports. The roads from the cities to Chenxi are well paved. The property is about 38 km from Chenxi County. The road from County to the property is paved. The property is in mountain area and elevation is about 700 meters. The mountain is quite steep.
Hongyu currently holds a mining permit allowing initial production up to 100,000 tonnes phosphate ore per year. In order to acquire more resources under the mining permit, Hongyu needs to invest not less than RMB 20 million Yuan in county including paying resource fees to the Chinese government according to related Chinese regulations and applies to expand the scale of current mining permit through the legal process in China.
The ore of the deposit is mainly consisted of crytocrysta-microcrystal phosphorite with small volume of tiny oolite and it is a marine sediment deposit with banded texture. According to weathering and oxidization level, the ore can be defined as weathered and primary types. Under weathering effect, carbonate content can be decreased and phosphorite minerals can be enriched while vein mineral and structure & texture of ore changed and forming weathered ore. The changing of grade and thickness of weathered ore is relatively big in the deposit while that is small for primary ore. After weathering, the grade would increase 5- 8% and the ore grade can reach around 28% after simple washing by water. It can be utilized directly in phosphate fertilizer processing then.
Strata outcropped in this mine area include Jiangkou Formation, Xiangmeng Formation and Hongjiang Formation of Lower Sinian, Jinjiadong Formation, Liuchapo Formation of Upper Sinian and Xiaoyanxi Formation of Lower Cambrian. Phosphorite deposit of Tanjiachang mining area is in interlayers or interbeddings of phosphorite and mudstone, silty platy shale within middle section of Jinjiadong Formation, Upper Sinian, and the geology structure is simple. The strata strike NNE and dip into SEE in general.
Phosphorite is in yellow platy shale and epizonal metamorphism clastic rock, mainly mudstone, of middle section of Jinjiadong Formation, Upper Sinian, and it is in layer structure. The ore layers are made of several tens of siliceous phosphorite layers with thickness mostly 2- 6m. The ore is made of dark grey siliceous and cal-siliceous phosphorite and ore mineral is minicrystal apatite. Ore texture is mainly with microcrystal texture then colloidal texture. Structure is mainly massive structure then bending and thin stratiform structure, etc. The grade (P2O5 content) is 19.8% and it can increase with weathering effect becoming stronger. The phosphorite in Tanjiachang phosphate zone is siliceous and cal-siliceous phosphorite and the grade is medium, mainly in Chinese standard level III. The grade of hand- collecting sample is relative higher and can be close to or reach Chinese standard level I. Nature type of ore is in mainly massive shape or bending shape. The deposit is in shallow marine sediment deposit type.
Regional Geology Survey with scale of 1:200,000 had been done by Regional Geology Survey Team of Hunan Provincial Geology in 1970’s and Mineral Resources Bureau and Regional Geology Survey Report (in scale of 1:200,000) and Regional Mineral Resources Report have been submitted. The 407 Geology Team from Hunan Provincial Geology and Mineral Resources Bureau launched the General Survey for Pb-Zn Mineralization in Upper-Jingzhuxi, Lower-Jingzhuxi inside Tanjiachang mining area and Dabanlin outside of Tanjiachang, etc in 1980s. They drilled five boreholes but the data is unavailable for data collection. There are none specific geology works had been done for phosphorite deposit within Tanjiachang and the institute (Chemical Geology Exploration Institute, Hunan Province) has organized early stage big area scouting and field trips in September to October 1992 and chose Jingzhuxi section as the General Geology Survey working area in the year of 1993. It has been defined as Tanjiachang and they submitted General Geological Survey Design for Tanjiachang Phosphorite Mining Area, Chenxi county of Hunan Province. As the General Geology Survey work moving forward, Tanjiachang Phosphorite Mining Area becomes enlarged step by step and it has been divided into three sections of Jingzhuxi, Gaoping and Wenshuitang.
The following table summarizes the geological works conducted so far.
Item
unit
Quantity
sub-total
Remarks
1:10000 Geology Mapping km2 10.9 10.5 10.5 31.9
1:1000 Onsite Geology Section Mapping m 5967 5 lines
Trenching and Logging m3 1521.3 3846.3 47 lines
Channel Sampling & Basic Assay
391
Identification of Rock and Minerals
73
Small Weight Sample Testing
75
Basic Chemical Assay
391
Assembly Assay
The deposit range is in mountain area of Xiangxi (west Hunan Province) region and elevation is from 237.1m (minimum) to 985.8m (maximum) with maximum relative elevation difference of 748.7m (500- 600m in general). The terrain is seriously incised and with relatively developed vegetation conditions. Water system is mainly made of hill streams in shape of comb generally running from north to south and injecting to River Yuan. The water volume is related to local climate and the local climate type of Tanjiachang is subtropical humid one, with annual average temperature 16.5 degree and frost-free season/period 270 days. The precipitation is concentrated from April to August with flood frequently. It is arid in autumn and winter seasons and the stream will become very small and even drought. The area is also the 2nd largest timber producing basis and the main product is Matsuyama tree. The general agriculture product is rice and others include sweet potatoes, oil, tea and tung, etc. The nature economy condition within Tanjiachang is poor. Water and power resources are fully supplied and manpower is mainly in agriculture and its sideline producing industry, timber managements. Telecommunication is very good. Cellular phone can be accessed in the property area. Transportation is good and truck can arrive in the property area.
During the application of mining permit period, major workload accomplished include 6 GPS control surveys, 17 engineering survey points, geology mapping in scale of 1:5000 with area of 0.75km2, 3 geology section lines’ mapping with length 1500m, investigating and clearing 8 trenches and 6 old workings, slag removal with volume 100m3, 4 existing inclined shafts survey, 39 samples’ sampling and assaying, 10 small weight tests. In total, there are 6 participants involved in this work and 9 months spent from November 2006 to March 2007.
Water comes from mountain springs. River Yuan is nearby, and ships can navigate the river. The power line is connected to the mining site already.
The stratum of phosphorite deposit is stable with shallow buried-depth and geology structure is simple. According to requirements of general geology survey, geology mapping and surface trenches have been done in the round exploration work, and original geology logging and channel samples for phosphorite chemical assay all have been gotten to control deposit scale, occurrence and measure ore quality, ore type generally. Then estimation of geology prospective resources has been reached and data has been collected for further detailed geology exploration. Self- checking, peer review and technique director checking of data have been conducted during general geology survey period and the principles of accordance of report & map, physical sample & map, report & physical sample, relevant words & relevant physical sample have been insisted. The quality is guaranteed and the records of peer review of onsite data and detailed technique director checking has been kept. The data without checking and reviewing record can’t be used in comprehensive compilation.
Through onsite survey and by onsite geology cross-section mapping and united geology mapping, the geology map with scale of 1:10,000 has been drafted and the base map is topography map with scale of 1:10,000 published by Hunan Provincial Bureau of Surveying and Mapping. The mapping area is 31.90km2 and the mapping method is tracing assisted by crossing method.
Geology mapping unit is mainly for stratigraphic formations and lithology sections have been divided within ore-bearing Jinjiadong Formation. Upper and lower sections have been differentiated for Xiaoyanxi Formation, Cambrian for the lithology variation and lithology characteristics are obvious.
Geology mapping spot spacing is mainly 100- 150m in ore-bearing strata to control ore layer and its top and bottom plates. The spot spacing of none ore strata is 150 -250m. In total, 1494 geology observation points have been surveyed.
The data of geology point observation is with good quality and the logs are true and complete reflecting the true onsite geology conditions. The location of geology points is measured by geology compass and according to terrain features. The stratum boundary points take account of 50- 60% of total geology points.
Trenches has been done to disclose the phosphorite ore layers with spacing 400m (mainly 300- 500m) and totally 47 trenches have been finished with earthwork volume 3846.3 m3. The operation of trenches is accurate and the spacing is tried to be placed evenly. All the trenches have demonstrated good surface control effects on ore layers except for TC20 (the surface cover is too thick and it can’t control ore layers) and TC 47 (ore layers are missing due to fault). The trenches, operation and sampling are all following State Code of Original Geology Logging General Principles for Solid Mineral Exploration Registration (china) and data has been logged in time.
Basic assay samples all came from channel sampling of trench projects and the samples are with representative and following State Code and Geology Standard. The scale of channel sampling is 5cm*3cm and the length is mainly 1m, separately sampled from different layers. Totally, 391 samples have been sampled from ore layers and their top and bottom plates. The samples have been prepared in time according with ID, tag, record and onsite logs. Small weight samples have been collected with representative year by year in history and certain related relationship has been detected between density of phosphorite and P2O5 content. In general, the density and grade are with positive correlation. The petrology identification and testing samples are coming during onsite geology section survey to make sure the lithology and mineral compositions. Totally, 73 samples have been collected. Based on basic assay results, combination sample analysis has been done on backup samples from selected representatives 12 trenches to make sure benefit and harmful components. The major parameter of combination analysis is sample length.
SJT Phosphate Property of Shimen Phosphate Project
Shimen county located in west Hunan province of China and is rich in phosphate. Shimen is one of tenth large phosphate areas in China, which holds 78% of Hunan Province’s phosphate resources. However, currently local miners only mine near surface high grade ores. Shimen government wants to comprehensively utilize the resources. Under the agreement with Shimen county, Shimen county allows Sterling to conduct due diligence on the SJT phosphate property located in Shimen County, Hunan Province, China (the "SJT Property") within one and half years and update any Chinese study reports if necessary to build a mining, processing and chemical plant. Sterling intents to review available information, and conduct own technical due diligence. If the due diligence is completed and satisfied to Sterling, Sterling will set up a joint venture in Shimen County for developing the SJT Property.
SJT phosphate property is shallow marine sedimentary phosphate deposit and occurred in Doushantuo formation of Sinian. The location of the property is shown in the following map.
DXC Salt Lake Property
Dangxiongcuo Salt Lake (“DXC”) is located in the south-western part of Xizang plateau in Nima County, Tibet of China. The geographic co-ordinates are between 86°38'00" and 86°49'00" east and 31°30'00" to 31°40'00" north.
The location of the property is shown in the following map.
Access to Tibet is through Lhasa which has a good efficient international airport. Road access into the property area is difficult at best. The road heads northwest from Lhasa to the town of Zamsar then northeast. This first 200 km is good paved road. Then down into the valley turning right onto a rough gravel road near the Nam Tsho Salt Lake. Thence around the eastern and northern side of the Nam Tsho Lake and on 300 kilometers to the isolated village of Pankgo. Thence proceed 400 kilometers to the City of Nima. Thence proceed another 90 kilometers of very rough road down to the DXC. The trip takes 26 hours of difficult 4X4 driving from Lhasa.
The deposit is a large salt lake 55.53 km2 (5,553 hectares) in area with a maximum depth of 14 m. Brines are a common source of lithium and the DXC Salt Lake is a classic surface brine type deposit as compared with subsurface brine deposit in South America. This type of deposit is known throughout the world where ever desert climates allow evaporite deposits to form. Mineralization in the lake is in the form of dissolved salts of sodium, potassium, lithium and boron, as chlorides, oxides, sulfates and carbonates. These can be recovered through fractional precipitation of the various salts by the evaporation of the water. Variations in salinity, pH and temperature determine which compound will form crystals and precipitate from the brine.
In 1980’s, 1: 1,000,000 regional geology was conducted by the Tibet Regional Geology Brigade. 1: 250,000 regional geology was conducted by the Jiangxi Regional Geology Brigade in 2004. In 1999, two Chinese geologists conducted preliminary study in the area. In 2002, Mianping started exploration work in the area. 1:50,000 geology investigation and hydrogeology was conducted.1:2,000 salt field site engineering geology and topography mapping was conducted. 20,000 square meters salt field was built in 2003. In 2004, 10,000 square meters of the salt field was revamped. In December 2005, Sterling and Mianping commissioned the Tibet Geothermal brigade to conduct measurements for the 20 km2 salt field (1:2,000 and 1:5,000). In March 2006, Sterling and Mianping commissioned the Zhengzhou Comprehensive Utilization Institute of China Academy of Geology to conduct the purification test for the DXC salt lake rough concentrate. In 2006, the Tibet Geothermal Brigade conducted the geothermal exploration work. In May 2006, a Canadian standard NI 43-101 report was conducted by a qualified geologist. In June 2006, Mianping finished Chinese geology report and the report has passed the auditing of Ministry of Land and Resources of China. Since 2005, a technical team from Mianping has been working on the DXC Salt Lake site to conduct salt field technical test, weather monitoring and related tests and monitoring according to the plan designed by Sterling and Mianping.
There is almost no local infrastructure. The only solar power, water, and roads are those installed by the Mianping. Beicun village at the head of the lake appeared to have perhaps 300 people, local Tibetan herdsman of the Han ethnic group. They are mainly occupied with herding yaks, sheep, goats, and a few horses. They plant small gardens of barley and vegetables but are not self sufficient and import food stuffs from outside. Although people would be available from this village to work on a project in this area the skill level would be very low. Communication with the outside world is by satellite telephone. The nearest land line is at Nima a distance of 90 km away. Shipment of product does not seem to be a problem as numerous heavy trucks were noted all along the road to the property. National rail service is available from Naqu about 700 km distance to the east.
Generally, the physiography could be termed basin and range with broad valleys between sharp ridges and arretes. The valleys are generally gentle in profile both laterally and longitudinally with small to medium rivers coursing through the bottoms of the valleys. Few of the rivers are bridged and most of the crossings are by shallow fords. Along these tracks for much of the route were seen numerous large trucks of 30 - 40 tonnes. Most were freighting bagged material, probably salt from one of the salt lake operations. There are no services along the route except for Pankgo and Nima. The DXC Salt Lake sits in a rather confined basin between high rugged ridges. There are numerous benches or beaches around the lake indicating lake levels at one time were 200 meters above the present levels of the lake, as the last glaciation receded.
Vegetation throughout the plateau is sparse grasses which have been grazed down to the root level. Sheep, goats and yaks graze in large herds on what appeared to be very lean fodder. Herdsmen and herdswomen tend these flocks with no visible support and often many miles from the nearest shelter. Some of the herdsmen seem to rely on the 125cc motor bike for transportation. The women appeared mainly to walk. Occasional five tonne trucks were seen hauling personal belongings grossly overloaded with household items and people.
In June 2006, Mianping finished a Chinese geology report (Chinese reserve report) and the report passed the auditing of the Ministry of Land and Resources of China on September 13, 2006 which is the basis for converting the exploration permit into a mining permit. Mianping led by Professor Mianping Zheng, an academician of Chinese Academy of Engineering, is still collecting information such as yearly weather information, wind information and brine chemistry using a test pond system. Development plans are being studied.
Mianping has installed solar power, water, and roads on the site. Water comes from mountain springs. There are several rivers which flow into the lake area.
DXC salt lake Sampling by Mianping was done on a 2 km X 2 km grid with 106 samples taken at 16 sample points at various depths. Location control was provided by GPS. If the water depth was less than 2 meters deep, one sample was taken; if the water depth was between 2 and 10 meters, then two samples were taken at 3 and 8 meters and if the water was deeper than 10 meters then three samples were taken. Each sample consisted of two 500 ml. bottles of brine.
The sampling method used a standard water sampling technique where a bottle is lowered into the lake to the required depth, the stopper removed, and the bottle allowed to fill. AAS analytical techniques were used to determine the composition of the brine sample. This sampling program was repeated several times during the various seasons of the year. Several hundred samples have been collected in this way and analyzed by Mianping at their AAS laboratory on site.
Two samples were collected by Norm Tribe, an independent geologist, for the confirmation of Mianping’s assay and analyzed by an independent laboratory, ALS Canada Ltd., in Vancouver, BC, Canada in June 2006. The results indicate that the concentration of salts is comparable with the results provided by Mianping. The lake water returned values of 376 ppm lithium, 893 ppm boron and 11,300 ppm potassium. This sample was collected from DXC Lake at a depth of 1.0 meter.
Mianping’s analytical procedures were also reviewed by the Resources & Reserve Audit Center of Ministry of Land and Resources of China.
As of the date of this report, the application to establish a joint venture has not yet been approved by the regulators in Tibet, China
As at May 31, 2011, the Company incurred expenses of $1,042,167 related to the DXC Salt Lake Property.
Sterling is currently in the process of selling its interest in the project.
For further discussion of our interests in DXC Salt Lake Property, see the discussion of the agreements under "DXC Salt Lake Project" contained in Item 1. Business.
ITEM 3.