Item 2. Properties
We have not established that any of our properties, mineral interests or rights contain proven or probably reserves, as defined under SEC Industry Guide 7. Exploration by us on our properties has been limited to field sampling programs, field mapping programs and a campaign to acquire historic data sets that were known to exist for our property and the balance of the Homestake District. Much of the important historic data has been digitized and assembled to our new database in electronic form. In the case of historic geophysical data, the data has been digitized and reprocessed.
Drill plans and budgets have been prepared for each of the Homestake Paleoplacer Property, City Creek Property, Tinton Property and the Blind Gold Property iron-formation and tertiary aged replacement targets. The Homestake Paleoplacer Property has been permitted with SDDENR and we believe to be ready to drill upon on deposit of the $25,000 reclamation bond. Current drill plans for the City Creek Property, Tinton Property and Blind Gold Property may be modified pending the results of the Company’s airborne magnetic and radiometric survey that is scheduled to be flown in the summer of 2020. The airborne program is funded and awarded, as is the interpretation and modeling of the data to be acquired. Dakota Territory’s technical team has field programs planned and funded to reconcile geologic conditions with the high-resolution geophysics and to integrate new data with the Company’s extensive geology and geochemistry data sets.
None of our property is sufficiently drilled to prepare a preliminary economic assessment. However, our management and technical teams have prepared internal scoping studies for the Homestake Paleoplacer Property and the Blind Gold Property iron-formation and tertiary aged replacement targets. Based on our experience in the district, Dakota Territory has modeled the exploration, development, mining and closure for the size and grade of similar deposits in a similar geological setting elsewhere in the district for those properties. The strategy of this financial modeling is to determine whether, if we are technically successful defining our deposit expectation with drill holes, any identified deposit would make commercial sense to ultimately develop.
The Black Hills has well developed power infrastructure. All four of our properties has power on the property now, with the potential to be upgraded for production if exploration proves successful. The Company believes access to water will not be a significant issue for any development purpose at any property.
Gold Properties - Black Hills General
Dakota Territory maintains 100% ownership of four mineral properties in the district comprised of 404 unpatented claims and a combination of surface leases and mineral ownership covering a total of approximately 7,166 acres. located in the Black Hills of South Dakota, including the Blind Gold, City Creek, Tinton and Homestake Paleoplacer Properties, all of which are located in the heart of the Homestake District.
The Homestake District is a favorable geologic gold setting with three unique gold deposit types that we believe have yielded approximately 44.6 million ounces of gold production over the past 140 years, including Proterozoic-age Homestake iron-formation hosted gold deposits, Tertiary-age replacement gold deposits and Eo-Cambrian Homestake Paleoplacer gold deposits.
Dakota Territory has based the acquisition of its Black Hills property position on more than 44 years of combined mining and exploration experience in the Homestake District and the knowledge gained from previous exploration and mining efforts. We believe that the Blind Gold, City Creek, Tinton and Homestake Paleoplacer properties offer exploration targets for all three gold deposit types known to exist in the district.
The Black Hills is a low cost jurisdiction with well - developed infrastructure and an existing experienced mining and exploration workforce. South Dakota's regulatory authorities have historically demonstrated a willingness to work with responsible operators to permit well-planned compliant projects and South Dakota’s exploration and mining regulations are reasonable and comparable to other jurisdictions within the United States.
Our business strategy is to focus on the search of a repeat of the Homestake Deposit in the iron-formation host that is distributed across the district, largely under the cover of the younger igneous and sedimentary rocks that dominate the surface. The Company continues to expand its land position in the district with the objective of simultaneously developing less capital-intensive lower risk gold targets that could be brought into production in the near term.
Blind Gold Property
The Blind Gold Property consists of 221 unpatented lode-mining claims and combination of surface and mineral title to property located near the Historic Maitland Gold Mine. In total, the Blind Gold Property covers approximately 3,204 acres in the western portion of Lawrence County, South Dakota, USA. More specifically the claims lie within the Black Hills Meridian, Township 5N, Ranges 2 and 3 E and cover portions of Sections 1, 2, 11, 12 13 and 14 in Range 2E and Sections 5,6,7,8 and 18 in Range 3E.
The Company acquired 84 of the claims through the acquisition of North Homestake Mining Company in September 2012. In December 2012, the Company's Blind Gold Property position was increased through the acquisition of 23 additional claims from Black Hills Gold Exploration LLC. In April 2017, the Company completed the acquisition of an additional 82 acres of mineral property through an exploration and mining lease and option to purchase property agreement with Trucano Novelty Inc., of South Dakota. The Company added 114 contiguous claims on its west and southern western property boundary in February 2020. The Company owns a 100% interest in the 221 claims that comprise the main block of the Blind Gold Property with no known encumbrance. There are no known private surface rights owners within the bounds of the main block of the Blind Gold Property with all surface rights under the control of the US Forest Service. Annual claim maintenance fees are $165 per claim, or a total of $36,465 for the 221 claims that comprise the main block of the Blind Gold Property. Annual claim maintenance fees are due before September 1st of each year. An additional 82 acres are located approximately one-half mile south of the main block of the Blind Gold Property and adjacent to the Historic Maitland Gold Mine.
Notice must be filed with and approved by the US Forest Service (“USFS”), and the South Dakota Division of Environment and Natural Resources (“SDDENR”) prior to undertaking any exploration activities. The notice describes the proposed exploration activities and any remedial reclamation deemed necessary. The various government agencies review the application to ensure there will be no deleterious impacts as a result of activity on the claims prior to granting any approvals for the proposed work.
Access to the property is gained by traveling 4.3 miles south-southeast from the City of Spearfish along the Maitland Road (Forest Service 195). Alternately, the area can be accessed from the south via the same Maitland Road from Central City. The northern segment of the property can be accessed from the Maitland Road via Forest Service Road 195-2A and the southern portion can be accessed via the Paradise Gulch Road. In addition, various forest service roads exist within the property.
The Blind Gold Property is located approximately 4 miles northwest and on structural trend with the Homestake Gold Mine. In the 1980′s and 1990’s Homestake Mining Company’s work in the District extended and Homestake iron-formation host under cover and demonstrated the repeatability of Homestake iron-formation hosted gold deposits within the structural corridor extending northwest of the mine.
In addition to the exploration potential for gold hosted in the Homestake iron-formation, the Blind Gold Property holds exploration potential for Tertiary-aged gold and silver replacement deposits typical of the District, with the mineralization hosted in the Cambrian Deadwood formation and to a lesser degree the Paha Sapa limestone. The formation of Tertiary-age gold-silver replacement deposits is generally dependent on fault and fracture structures necessary to the transportation of mineralizing fluids and proximity to the preferential intrusive bodies, both of which are present at the Blind Gold Property. Tertiary-age gold mineralization is evidenced across the Blind Gold Property by numerous mapped prospect workings dating from the turn of the century in the Paha Sapa Limestone, Phonolite intrusive and Deadwood formation where it outcrops at the southwest corner of the property. The Blind Gold Property is an exploration target for the on-trend continuation of Tertiary aged gold-silver replacement deposits in the preferred Deadwood formation host under the cover of the Paha Sapa limestone.
Homestake Paleoplacer Property
The Homestake Paleoplacer Property consists of a total of 365 mineral acres covering approximately 5,700 feet of the projected northward extension of the Homestake Paleoplacer Channel Trend in the western portion of Lawrence County, South Dakota, USA. More specifically the claims lie within the Black Hills Meridian, Township 5N, Range 3 E and cover portions of Sections 20 and 21.
The Company acquired its original 14 unpatented Homestake Paleoplacer claims from Black Hills Gold Exploration LLC in December 2012. The Company owns a 100% interest in the 14 unpatented claims with no known encumbrance of any kind. There are no known private surface rights owners within the bounds of the property with all surface rights under the control of the US Forest Service. Annual claim maintenance fees are $165 per claim, or a total of $2,310 total for the 14 claims that comprise the original Homestake Paleoplacer Property. Annual claim maintenance fees are due before September 1st of each year.
Notice must be filed with and approved by the BLM, the USFS, and the SDDENR prior to undertaking any exploration activities. The notice describes the proposed exploration activities and any remedial reclamation deemed necessary. The various government agencies review the application to ensure there will be no deleterious impacts as a result of activity on the claims prior to granting any approvals for the proposed work.
In February 2014, the Company entered into an agreement to acquire surface and mineral title to 26.16 acres of the Squaw and Rubber Neck Lodes that comprise Mineral Survey 1706 in the Black Hills of South Dakota. The property is located immediately to the north and adjoining the Company’s 14 original unpatented claims group and was explored by Homestake Mining Company in the 1980’s.
In March 2014, the Company successfully closed a transaction with Deadbroke Mining Company, Inc. to purchase approximately 565.24 mineral acres in the Northern Black Hills of South Dakota. As part of the Deadbroke Mining Company Inc. property acquisition, Dakota Territory purchased an additional 64.39 mineral acres located immediately southwest and contiguous to the Company’s original unpatented claims group, including the historic Gustin, Minerva and Deadbroke Gold Mines.
In April 2017, the Company added an additional 141 acres of mineral property to the Homestake Paleoplacer Property through an Exploration and Mining Lease and Option to Purchase Property Agreement with Trucano Novelty Inc., of South Dakota. The property acquisition is located immediately north and contiguous to the original Homestake Paleoplacer Property.
Access to the property is gained by traveling 0.75 miles west-northwest from Central City along the Maitland Road (Forest Service 195). Alternately, the area can be accessed by traveling approximately 1.75 miles west-northwest from the City of Deadwood on the Mount Roosevelt Road (Forest Service 133).
The first significant Black Hills gold event occurred approximately 1.74 billion years ago, depositing gold in the Homestake iron-formation. From the time of iron-formation gold deposition, Proterozoic erosion removed approximately 30,000 feet of rock from the earth’s crust and exposed the Homestake lode to an erosional event that distributed gold into drainages on the regolith surface forming high-grade gold paleoplacer deposits. The Homestake Paleoplacer deposit is characterized by gold bearing quartz pebble conglomerates, similar to the Jacobina conglomerate gold deposits of Bahia, Brazil, that were deposited to the north and away from the elevated exposure of the mineralized Homestake iron-formation source lode. Multi-ounce per ton gold grades were historically not uncommon to paleoplacer deposits, principally because the source gold lode was up graded by lateritic weathering processes prior to erosion and distribution of the gold into the ancient paleochannels.
At 560 million years ago, the Cambrian seas advanced and deposited marine sediments that eventually covered the primordial Black Hills highlands and sealed the paleoplacer gold deposits under cover.
Tertiary-age rhyolite intrusive rocks dominate the outcrop on the Homestake Paleoplacer Property, along with limited outcrops of Cambrian Deadwood formation contained within the rhyolite intrusive. The rhyolite is in the form of a sill/laccolith, 50 to 500 feet thick, that overlies the basal quartz pebble conglomerate units of Deadwood formation and the extensions of gold bearing paleoplacers sourced from the Homestake Lode.
Dakota Territory’s Paleoplacer Property includes the past producing Gustin, Minerva and Deadbroke Mines, which were the last three mines that produced from the channel and are located furthest to the north at the point where the channel disappears under the cover of the younger Cambrian sedimentary and Tertiary igneous rocks. The Deadbroke Mine began operations in the earliest days of the 1870’s Black Hills Gold Rush and continued to produce gold through the 1920’s by underground room and pillar methods at depths ranging from 100 to 200 feet below surface.
In 1973, Homestake Mining Company entered into a mining lease on the Deadbroke Property based on interest generated by a report authored by Homestake Geologist, Ross R. Grunwald and entitled “Ore Potential of The Deadbroke Mine and Other Northern Black Hills Conglomerate Ores”. In 1974, Homestake dewatered the Deadbroke Mine and conducted a comprehensive mine mapping and sampling program. A total of 214 channel samples were collected by Homestake Geologists from the perimeter of accessible stope and development headings, as well as from pillars left in stopes. The results of the 1974 Deadbroke Mine sampling program led to a subsequent 27-hole drill program in the 1980’s designed to explore for the extension of the paleochannel north of the Deadbroke Mine.
City Creek Property
The City Creek Property consists of a group of 63 unpatented lode-mining claims and Fidelity, Cresson, Danube, Confidence, Perhaps, Combination No. 1, Combination No. 2 and Cuba patented lode claims, M.S. 1644, covering a total of approximately 1,167 acres in the western portion of Lawrence County, South Dakota, USA. More specifically the claims lie within the Black Hills Meridian, Township 5N, Range 3 E and cover portions of Sections 9, 10, 15, 16, 21 and 22.
The Company acquired the original block of 21 City Creek claims from Black Hills Gold Exploration LLC in December, 2012. The patented lode claims Fidelity, Cresson, Danube, Confidence, Perhaps, Combination No. 1, Combination No. 2 and Cuba that comprise M.S. 1644 were acquired from Trucano Novelty Inc. in April, 2017 and an addition 42 unpatented lode mining claims were acquired by staking in November 2018. The Company owns a 100% interest in the property with no known encumbrance of any kind. There are no known private surface rights owners within the bounds of the property with all surface rights on the unpatented portion of the property under the control of the US Forest Service. Annual claim maintenance fees are $165 per claim, or a total of $10,395 total for the 63 claims that comprise the City Creek Property. Annual claim maintenance fees are due before September 1st of each year.
Notice must be filed with and approved by the BLM, the USFS, and the SDDENR prior to undertaking any exploration activities. The notice describes the proposed exploration activities and any remedial reclamation deemed necessary. The various government agencies review the application to ensure there will be no deleterious impacts as a result of activity on the claims prior to granting any approvals for the proposed work.
Access to southwest end of the property is gained by traveling 0.6 miles west-northwest from the City of Deadwood along the Mount Roosevelt Road (Forest Service 133). Alternately, the area can be accessed by traveling approximately 2.8 miles west on the Mount Roosevelt Road (Forest Service 133) from US Highway 85 in the City of Deadwood.
The City Creek Property is located one mile northeast of the Homestake Open Cut, one mile northwest of the City of Deadwood and is a target for Homestake iron-formation hosted gold mineralization. The City Creek Property geology is dominated by rocks of the Homestake stratigraphic sequence, including the Ellison, Homestake and Poorman formations that outcrop across the property. The Homestake iron-formation outcrop on the City Creek Property is complexly folded and represents the continuous Homestake iron-formation extension northeast of the Homestake Mine.
Numerous gold prospect pits and shallow underground workings in quartz-veined Homestake formation have been located at the City Creek Property and the stratigraphy has been mapped by both Homestake Mining Company and USGS geologists. The City Creek Property was also diamond drilled by Homestake Mining Company in the 1970’s and 1980’s.
Tinton Property
The Tinton Property, consists of a group of 106 unpatented lode-mining claims covering approximately 1,167 acres in the western portion of Lawrence County, South Dakota, USA. More specifically the claims lie within the Black Hills Meridian, Township 5N, Range 1 E and cover portions of Sections 14, 15, 22, 23,27, 26, 34, and 35.
The Company acquired the claims in September 2019 with no known encumbrance of any kind. There are no known private surface rights owners within the bounds of the claims with all surface rights on the unpatented portion of the property under the control of the US Forest Service. Annual claim maintenance fees are $165 per claim, or a total of $17,490 total for the 106 claims that comprise the Tinton Property. Annual claim maintenance fees are due before September 1st of each year.
Notice must be filed with and approved by the BLM, the USFS, and the SDDENR prior to undertaking any exploration activities. The notice describes the proposed exploration activities and any remedial reclamation deemed necessary. The various government agencies review the application to ensure there will be no deleterious impacts as a result of activity on the claims prior to granting any approvals for the proposed work.
Access to the property is gained by traveling 8 miles south-southwest from the City of Spearfish along a series of paved and aggregate secondary roads. A network of these roads cut the property. Alternative ingress can be gained on similar roads from the town of Lead (via Savoy), located approximately 9 miles east-southeast of the property. Some of these roads are seasonal, as they are not plowed during the winter months.
Placer gold was first discovered in the Tinton area in 1876 and the local drainages were worked during the late 19th and early 20th centuries. No source-lode has yet been located for the modern gold placer deposits.
In the mid 1990’s, Homestake Mining Company undertook an exploration program at Tinton that was based on the deposition models for the paleoplacer and modern placers associated with the Homestake Lode. Preliminary ground work at that time indicated that the most likely source of the gold originated from an area east of the placer workings, over which a district wide ground gravity survey was conducted in an effort to locate iron-formation host rocks under the younger limestone beds that dominate the surface in the Tinton area. Based on the results of the geophysical survey, two deep core holes were subsequently drilled with intercepted rocks interpreted to be comparable with the suite of rocks at the site of the Homestake Mine. Dakota Territory intends to resume the exploration begun by Homestake by building off the substantial work already invested in narrowing the search area.
Item 3.