ITEM 2. PROPERTIES" of this Report for a description of the facilities of these business units and operations.
The following table shows production information for Bethlehem and for the domestic steel industry. The information regarding the domestic steel industry is based on data from the American Iron and Steel Institute ("AISI"):
- ---------- * Preliminary - --------------
1 "Bethlehem" when used in this Report means Bethlehem Steel Corporation, a Delaware corporation, and where applicable includes its consolidated subsidiaries. Bethlehem was incorporated in Delaware in 1919.
Of Bethlehem's 2000 raw steel production, 87 percent was produced by basic oxygen furnaces and 13 percent by electric furnaces.
Bethlehem's operations are subject to planned and unplanned outages due to required maintenance, equipment malfunctions, work stoppages, various hazards (including explosions, fires and severe weather conditions) and the availability of raw materials, supplies, utilities and other items needed for the production of steel. These outages could result in reduced production and increased costs.
Markets
For information on Bethlehem's principal markets, see "Operating Results" under "PART II, ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS" of this Report. Many of the markets Bethlehem supplies, such as automotive, machinery and construction, are highly cyclical and subject to downturns in the U.S. economy. Also, many of Bethlehem's customers and suppliers are subject to collective bargaining agreements, and their ability to operate could be impacted by a strike or work stoppage.
Consolidation of customers in major steel-consuming industries, such as the automotive and container industries, has increased their buying leverage and may make it more difficult to increase steel prices in the future.
Bethlehem distributes steel products principally through its own sales organization, which has sales offices at various locations in the United States and Mexico, and through foreign sales agents. In addition to selling to customers who consume steel products directly, Bethlehem sells steel products to steel service centers, distributors, processors and converters. Export sales were 3 percent of total sales in 2000, 3 percent in 1999 and 4 percent in 1998.
Trade orders on hand were about $0.9 billion at December 31, 2000, and $1 billion at December 31, 1999. Substantially all of the orders on hand at December 31, 2000, are expected to be filled in 2001.
Steel Price Sensitivity
Bethlehem's financial results are significantly affected by relatively small (on a percentage basis) variations in the realized prices for its products. For example, Bethlehem shipped 8.5 million net tons of steel products and recorded net sales of $4.2 billion during 2000, implying an average realized price per ton of about $490. A one percent increase or decrease in this implied average realized price during 2000 would, on a pro forma basis, have resulted in an increase or decrease in net sales and pre-tax income of about $40 million. Competitive pressures in the steel industry are severe. These pressures could limit Bethlehem's ability to obtain price increases or could lead to a decline in prices, which could have a material adverse effect upon Bethlehem.
Competition
The domestic steel industry is highly competitive. This competition affects the prices that Bethlehem can charge for its products, the utilization of its production facilities, its ability to sell higher value products and ultimately its profitability.
Capacity. There is excess world capacity for many of the products -------- produced by Bethlehem. In addition, overcapacity has been perpetuated by the continued operation, modernization and upgrading of marginal domestic facilities through bankruptcy reorganization
proceedings and by the sale of marginal domestic facilities to new owners, which operate such facilities with a lower cost structure. Over the next several years, the ramp-up of newly constructed finishing capacity and the potential construction of additional production facilities could result in increased domestic capacity over 2000 levels. In particular, new domestic capacity in the plate market and potential new domestic capacity in the rail market are expected to increase competition in these products where Bethlehem now has a large domestic market share.
Electric Furnace Producers. Domestic integrated producers, such as -------------------------- Bethlehem, have lost market share in recent years to domestic electric furnace producers. These companies are relatively efficient, low-cost producers that make steel from scrap in electric furnaces (which are less expensive to build than integrated facilities), have lower employment and environmental costs per ton shipped and target regional markets. Through the use of various higher quality raw materials and thin slab casting technology, electric furnace producers are increasingly able to compete directly with producers of higher value products, including cold-rolled and coated sheets.
Imports. Domestic steel producers also face significant competition ------- from foreign producers and have been, and may continue to be, adversely affected by unfairly traded imports. In certain cases, foreign producers may be pricing their products below their production costs. Imports of finished steel products accounted for about 24 percent of the domestic market in 2000, 22 percent in 1999 and 27 percent in 1998.
The following table, which is based on data reported by the AISI, shows the percentage of the domestic apparent consumption of steel mill products supplied by imports for various classes of products.
______________ * Preliminary
** Excludes steel imported in the form of manufactured goods, such as automobiles, but includes semifinished steel.
Excluding semifinished steel, imports of steel mill products were about 29.7 million tons in 2000, 27.1 million tons in 1999 and 34.7 million tons in 1998.
Bethlehem is a party to a number of on-going trade proceedings. Such proceedings seek the imposition of antidumping and countervailing duties, which are designed to offset dumping and the advantages of subsidies, respectively, on material imported in violation of U.S. trade laws. Such actions are brought before the Department of Commerce ("DoC") and the International Trade Commission ("ITC") which conduct an investigation to determine whether an antidumping or countervailing duty order is appropriate. If such an order is granted, it is subject to an annual administrative review and will expire at the end of five years ("sunset reviews") unless the DoC and the ITC are convinced that injury, dumping or subsidization is likely to continue or recur if the order is revoked.
In 1992, Bethlehem and 11 other steel companies filed antidumping and countervailing duty cases covering imports of corrosion-resistant sheet from six countries, cold-rolled sheet from three countries and plate from 11 countries. Orders imposing duties were entered in all these cases. On November 2, 2000, the ITC voted on the five-year sunset reviews of these orders. All of the orders in connection with corrosion-resistant steel were extended; all of the orders in connection with plate, except that directed at Canada, were also extended. The cold-rolled orders were revoked and Bethlehem, and four other domestic producers, are appealing those revocations.
In 1998, this same group of five domestic producers, joined by the United Steelworkers of America ("USWA") and the Independent Steelworkers Union, filed similar actions against hot-rolled carbon steel products from Japan, Russia and Brazil. A final antidumping order was issued against Japan in June 1999. In the cases against Brazil, final countervailing and antidumping duty determinations were announced contemporaneously with an announcement that the DoC had entered into agreements with Brazil to suspend the investigations. Likewise, in connection with the cases against Russia, the DoC announced final antidumping duty determinations together with a suspension agreement and a comprehensive agreement concerning all steel products except hot-rolled and plates (which are subject to a suspension agreement signed in 1997). Bethlehem, and the four other integrated domestic producers, have appealed these hot-rolled steel suspension agreements.
In February 1999, Bethlehem, four other domestic producers and the USWA filed cases seeking antidumping relief against eight countries and countervailing duties against six of them in connection with imports of cut-to-length plate products. On February 11, 2000, antidumping and countervailing duty orders were entered against all the countries against which they had been sought, except two whose volume of imports were determined to be negligible.
In June 1999, Bethlehem, eight other producers, the USWA and the Independent Steelworkers Union filed cases against 12 countries seeking antidumping relief against imports of cold-rolled sheet products from 12 countries and countervailing duties in regard to four of them. Despite initial injury determinations, the ITC ultimately declined to order relief. Bethlehem has joined in the appeal of these decisions.
In November 2000, Bethlehem, three other domestic producers and the USWA initiated antidumping actions against 11 countries and countervailing duty cases against five of them alleging that imports of hot-rolled carbon steel violated U.S. trade laws. Favorable initial injury determinations have been made in all the cases.
The major restructuring of the domestic steel industry, which began in the late 1970s and early 1980s, has removed the steelmaking capacity that once existed to meet market demand during peak periods. During the last few years, domestic producers have met a portion of the demand that exceeded steelmaking capacity by importing semifinished slabs for rolling into finished products in their own mills.
Substitute Materials. For many steel products, there is substantial -------------------- competition from manufacturers of products other than steel, including aluminum, ceramics, concrete, glass, plastic and wood. Changes to the relative competitiveness of these substitute materials and the emergence of additional substitute materials could adversely affect future prices and demand for Bethlehem's products.
Bankruptcy of Competitors. The intense competitive conditions within ------------------------- the domestic steel industry have been aggravated by the bankruptcy filings of a number of other steel producers. During the last two years, ten domestic steel companies have filed for reorganization under Chapter 11 of the United States Bankruptcy Code. These proceedings could result in reduced
costs for those companies and tend to promote the continued operation, modernization and upgrading of marginal facilities perpetuating the existing overcapacity in certain product lines in the industry. As a result of these filings, these competitors may achieve certain cost savings that would permit them to price their steel products at levels below those at which it would be profitable for Bethlehem to sell its products.
Capital Expenditures
The domestic integrated steel industry is very capital intensive. As discussed under "PART I, ITEM 2. PROPERTIES -- General" of this Report, Bethlehem's principal operations and facilities are of varying ages, technologies and operating efficiencies. Bethlehem will need to continue to make significant capital expenditures in the future to maintain and improve the competitiveness of its operations and facilities. For further information on capital expenditures, see "Liquidity and Cash Flow" under "PART II, ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS" of this Report.
Environment
Under the Clean Air Act, as amended, coke-making facilities will have to meet progressively more stringent standards over the next 25 years. Bethlehem currently operates coke-making facilities in Burns Harbor, Indiana and Lackawanna, New York. Bethlehem will continue to evaluate the impact of future emission control regulations on its Burns Harbor and Lackawanna operations but believes that these operations will be able to comply.
Under the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, as amended ("RCRA"), the owners of certain facilities that managed hazardous waste after 1980 are required to investigate and, if appropriate, remediate certain historic environmental contamination found at the facility. All of Bethlehem's major facilities may be subject to this "Corrective Action Program", and Bethlehem has implemented or is currently implementing this program at its facilities located in Steelton, Pennsylvania; Lackawanna, New York; Burns Harbor, Indiana; and Sparrows Point, Maryland. At Steelton, Bethlehem completed a RCRA Facility Investigation ("RFI"), a Corrective Measures Study ("CMS") and a remediation program approved by the United States Environmental Protection Agency ("EPA") and completed the remediation in 1994. At Lackawanna, Bethlehem is conducting an RFI pursuant to an Administrative Order on Consent with the EPA. At Burns Harbor, Bethlehem is also conducting an RFI in accordance with an EPA approved work plan. Bethlehem and the EPA are exploring potential ways to streamline the corrective action process in an environmentally responsible manner. At Sparrows Point, Bethlehem, the EPA and the Maryland Department of the Environment have agreed to a phased RFI as part of a comprehensive multimedia pollution prevention agreement which was entered by the U. S. District Court for Maryland on October 8, 1997. The potential costs for possible remediation activities, if any, at Lackawanna, Burns Harbor and Sparrows Point and the timeframe for implementation of these activities cannot be reasonably estimated until the RFIs, and possibly the CMSs, have been completed and approved.
At its former plant in Bethlehem, Pennsylvania, Bethlehem is conducting remedial investigations pursuant to the Pennsylvania Land Recycling ("Brownfields") Program in conjunction with comprehensive redevelopment plans. These investigations are being performed with input and oversight from both the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection and the EPA Region III corrective action staff to ensure that the actions taken are acceptable to both state and federal regulatory authorities.
Bethlehem does not believe that the operations it acquired as part of the Lukens merger in 1998 are subject to the RCRA Corrective Action Program and, therefore, any remediation
associated with those facilities will be addressed as appropriate in the ongoing course of business. Bethlehem may have some residual liability for remediation associated with historic Lukens facilities or those that have been sold or shut down since the merger, but any such liabilities are not anticipated to be material. For example, the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection has approved Bethlehem's plan to remediate the electric arc furnace flue dust disposal site at the Coatesville, Pennsylvania, facility pursuant to the Brownfields Program. Bethlehem plans to complete the work during 2001 at an estimated gross cost of $2 million.
Under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, as amended ("CERCLA", also known as "Superfund"), the EPA can impose liability for site remediation on generators and transporters of waste, as well as past and present owners and operators of the sites where the waste was disposed of, regardless of fault or the legality of the disposal activities. Bethlehem is actively involved at 24 sites where it has been advised that it may be considered a potentially responsible party under CERCLA or corresponding State Superfund legislation. Based on its experience regarding site remediation and its knowledge of and extent of involvement in such sites, Bethlehem expects that its share of the costs for remediation of these sites will not be material.
Bethlehem has been required to pay various fines and penalties relating to violations or alleged violations of laws and regulations in the environmental control area. Bethlehem paid about $134,000 in 2000, $74,000 in 1999 and $910,000 in 1998 for such fines and penalties.
Although it is possible that Bethlehem's future results of operations, in particular quarterly or annual periods, could be materially affected by the future costs of environmental compliance, Bethlehem believes that the future costs of environmental compliance will not have a material adverse effect on its consolidated financial position or on its competitive position with respect to other integrated domestic steelmakers that are subject to the same environmental requirements. To the extent that competitors are not required to undertake equivalent costs, Bethlehem's competitive position could be adversely affected.
For further information on Bethlehem's environmental matters, see "Environmental Matters" under "PART II, ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS" of this Report.
Purchased Materials and Services
Bethlehem purchases about $3 billion per year of raw materials, energy, equipment, goods and services from commercial sources in about 40 countries. Bethlehem's profitability could be affected by difficulties in obtaining these items and the prices paid for them. These difficulties could include such things as labor strikes, political instability, credit availability and natural disasters. There has also been a significant consolidation among suppliers of raw materials to the steel industry, especially energy, putting Bethlehem at an economic disadvantage in resisting upward cost pressures. See "PART I, ITEM 2. PROPERTIES -- Raw Material Properties and Interests" of this Report for a further description of the sources of raw materials essential to Bethlehem's steelmaking business.
Technology
Bethlehem performs research to improve existing products, develop new products and make operating processes more efficient. During 2000, 1999 and 1998, Bethlehem spent about $20 million, $21 million and $23 million, respectively, for research and development. Bethlehem owns a number of U.S. and foreign patents that relate to a wide variety of products and processes, has pending patent applications and is licensed under a number of patents.
During 2000, ten U.S. patents covering a variety of new developments were awarded to Bethlehem. However, Bethlehem believes that no single patent or license or group of patents or licenses is of material importance to its overall business. Bethlehem also owns registered trademarks for certain of its products and service marks for certain of its services which, unlike patents and licenses, are renewable so long as they are continued in use and properly protected.
Employment
At the end of 2000, Bethlehem had about 14,700 employees, three-quarters of whom are covered by agreements with the USWA. A strike or work stoppage could impact Bethlehem's ability to operate if it is unable to negotiate new agreements with its represented employees when the existing agreements expire. Also, Bethlehem's profitability could be adversely affected if increased costs associated with any future contract are not recoverable through productivity improvements or price increases.
For further information on Bethlehem's employment matters, see "Employees and Employment Costs" under "PART II, ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS" of this Report.
Employee Postretirement Obligations
Bethlehem provides pension, health care and life insurance benefits to most retirees and their dependents. These future benefits have not been fully funded and, therefore, Bethlehem has substantial financial obligations on its balance sheet. At December 31, 2000, Bethlehem had recorded a liability of $442 million for pensions and $1,955 million for postretirement benefits other than pensions. To the extent competitors do not have similar obligations, Bethlehem could be placed at a competitive disadvantage. Also, increases in health care costs could adversely affect Bethlehem's profitability.
For further information of Bethlehem's pension and other postretirement benefit funding and obligations, see "Liquidity and Cash Flow" under "PART II, ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS" of this Report.
Joint Ventures, Partnerships, Facility Sharing Arrangements and Mergers
Bethlehem has considered, and discussed with others, various opportunities for joint ventures, partnerships, facility sharing arrangements and mergers of all or part of Bethlehem. Bethlehem will continue to explore such opportunities. See "PART I, ITEM 2. PROPERTIES" of this Report for a description of joint ventures in which Bethlehem participates.
Businesses Exited
In recent years, Bethlehem has shut down or sold several facilities and operations. Since 1996, Bethlehem recorded net charges of $371 million in connection with these actions.
If it becomes necessary for Bethlehem to exit or reduce employment at additional businesses and operations in the future, it could incur substantial additional charges in the process. The charges for employees terminated as a result of facility shutdowns or sales vary depending upon the demographics of the workforce, but could be about $100,000 per employee. The recording of these charges could have a material adverse impact on Bethlehem's financial condition because of the increase in recorded liabilities, decrease in stockholders' equity and possible increases in required contributions to the pension fund and retiree health care payments.
Capital Structure
Bethlehem's capital structure is highly leveraged. Its existing obligations and below investment grade credit ratings may limit its ability to raise capital at reasonable cost and terms in the future. For further information on Bethlehem's capital structure, see "Liquidity and Cash Flow" under "PART II, ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS" of this Report.
Forward-Looking Statements
Bethlehem and its representatives may from time to time make forward-looking statements in reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, reports to stockholders, press releases, other written documents and oral presentations. These forward-looking statements may include, among others, statements concerning projected levels of sales, shipments and income, pricing trends, anticipated cost-reductions, product mix, anticipated capital expenditures and other future plans and strategies.
As permitted by the "safe harbor" provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, Bethlehem is identifying in this Report important factors that could cause Bethlehem's actual results to differ materially from those projected in these forward-looking statements. These factors include, but are not necessarily limited to:
. the effect of planned and unplanned outages on Bethlehem's operations;
. the potential impact of strikes or work stoppages at facilities of Bethlehem's customers and suppliers;
. the sensitivity of Bethlehem's results to relatively small changes in the prices obtained by Bethlehem for its products;
. intense competition due to world steel overcapacity, new domestic capacity, low-cost electric furnace facilities, imports (especially unfairly traded imports) and substitute materials;
. the consolidation of many of Bethlehem's customers and suppliers;
. the high capital requirements associated with integrated steel facilities;
. the significant costs associated with environmental controls and remediation expenditures and the uncertainty of future environmental control requirements;
. availability and prices associated with raw materials, supplies, utilities and other services and items required by Bethlehem's operations;
. employment matters, including costs and uncertainties associated with Bethlehem's collective bargaining agreements, and employee postretirement obligations;
. the effect of possible future closure or exit of businesses;
. Bethlehem's highly leveraged capital structure and its ability to obtain new capital at reasonable costs and terms;
. financial difficulties encountered by joint venture partners; and
. the effect of existing and possible future lawsuits filed against Bethlehem.
"PART I, ITEM 1. BUSINESS","PART I, ITEM 3.