ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
Oil and Gas Properties
Our various oil and gas properties are described below. The following table presents the average monthly oil and gas production rates based upon Energytec’s net interest in each of these properties:
Como Field. The Como Field is located in Hopkins and Wood counties near the town of Quitman, Texas, about 160 miles northeast of Dallas, Texas on 1,350 lease acres. The wells produce from the Eagleford and Sub-Clarksville sands at depths ranging from 4,000 to 4,200 feet. At present, 32 of the wells are on production. Energytec believes approximately 18 of the remaining wells can be reworked with the remaining 11 wells to be evaluated. Our ownership interest, including undeveloped acreage and non-producing wells in the Como field averages 75% across the field.
Talco/ Trix-Liz Field. The Talco and Trix-Liz Fields are located in Titus County, Texas, near the town of Talco, about 135 miles northeast of Dallas on 2,252 lease acres. The wells in this field produce from the Woodbine Sands at depths ranging from 3,200 to 3,900 feet and from the Paluxy Sands at a depth of about 4,300 feet. Both the Woodbine Sands and Paluxy Sands are characterized by active water drives and reservoirs. The wells in this field are older wells that were shut down and most of the well equipment removed when the price of oil declined to less than $8.00 per barrel in the mid 1990s. At present 24 of the wells in this field are back in production, six are injection wells, and 15 are plugged. Energytec believes approximately 50 of the remaining wells can be reworked successfully and the remaining 64 wells will continue to be evaluated. In addition to existing wells, we implemented an infill drilling program. We drilled 19 development wells during the year ended December 31, 2005. Our ownership interest, including undeveloped acreage and non-producing wells in the Talco/ Trix-Liz field averages approximately 50% across the field.
Sulphur Bluff Field. The Sulphur Bluff Field is located in Hopkins County, Texas, three miles south of the town of Sulphur Bluff and approximately half way between Dallas and Texarkana. Energytec owns the majority (878 lease acres or approximately 80 percent) of this Field, which was discovered in 1925. The 28 wells in this field produce from the Paluxy formation, which is an active water driven reservoir. Eleven wells are currently producing. Five are injection wells, and the remaining wells are under evaluation for production capability in the future. Our ownership interest, including undeveloped acreage and non-producing wells in the Sulphur Bluff field wells averages 70% across the field. One development well was drilled and completed during the year ended December 31, 2005.
Redwater Properties. The Redwater properties consist of mineral leases covering 3,778 acres in Bowie, Cass, and Rains counties in northeast Texas approximately 20 miles from Texarkana and 140 miles northeast of Dallas. There are a total of 12 wells with eight currently in production and four being evaluated for production. Most of the production is gas production with high sulfur content from the Smackover formation. There are four wells producing, primarily oil, with some associated gas production. Our ownership interest, including undeveloped acreage and non-producing wells in the Redwater properties averages 50% across the field.
During the year ended December 31, 2005, the Company acquired an additional 2,500 acres in close proximity to our existing leases. The Company has identified four potential locations and began preparations at two locations for future development. The Company is unsure if it will be able to commence exploratory wells in the near term and alternative methods to develop these locations are being evaluated.
Hutt Field Property. Energytec holds working interests, averaging 15% across the field, in 13 oil wells and two water injection wells in Atascosa and McMullen Counties, Texas. These wells are located on 1053 acres, 17 miles south of the town of Jourdanton and about 65 miles southwest of San Antonio. Nine of the wells are producing and four are being evaluated for production. These wells produce from the Wilcox Formation at a depth of about 5,400 feet. An active water drive that forces oil to migrate and reservoirs where the oil accumulates are characteristics of this type of formation.
Kilgore Field. Energytec leases approximately 14 acres near Kilgore, Texas, for use as a central office for the leases and operations in the East Texas Field. Energytec has an office building, a shop facility and a storage yard for its equipment and supplies. The annual rental for this facility is approximately $10,000 plus utilities. The rentals are paid one year in advance and renewed year to year. We have 170 wells on 1,437 lease acres, of which 80 are producing in the East Texas Field. Energytec holds working interests averaging 50% across the field.
Oil production is from the Woodbine formation at about 3,500 feet in depth. The Woodbine is a sandstone with an active water drive. While many wells in the East Texas Field have ceased production due to water encroachment, we have studied the movement of the water in the field and have concluded that its wells are in the eastern portion of the field and will be among the very last wells that will be subject to this encroachment. The Bureau of Economic Geology at the University of Texas has estimated that over 660 million barrels of oil remain in the field and can be subjected to recovery by the use of new technologies and operations now available in the industry.
Milam Field. Energytec owns a two acre tract in the town of Rockdale, Texas which is approximately 60 miles northeast of Austin. On this tract, Energytec has a shop facility and a storage yard for its equipment, and there is also a producing well on the same tract. This location provides support services for our operations in Milam County and Burleson County. Energytec owns leases containing 34 wells, of which 8 are producing, on 622 lease acres, and holds working interests averaging 50% across the field. The wells produce from the Olmos formation, a prolific formation throughout Central and South Texas. We believe significant amounts of oil remain in place that can be recovered through the use of modern drilling practices and recently developed recovery methods.
Luling Field. Energytec rents a 4 acre tract in Luling, Texas which is approximately 60 miles east of San Antonio. The tract has a shop facility and a storage yard. This facility provides support for Energytec’s leases in Caldwell and Guadalupe Counties. A total of 91 wells, of which 15 are producing, are located on 469 lease acres. These wells were drilled in the Austin Chalk where the majority of the estimated original oil in place still remains. Energytec believes significant recovery operations exist based on new drilling techniques and enhanced recovery methods. We are currently evaluating new technologies, which the Company is developing in order to increase production in this field. Energytec holds working interests averaging 80% across the field.
Big Horn Field. Energytec owns a 44% working interest in approximately 48,427 acres in Big Horn County, Wyoming, in the Big Horn Basin. The Company operates the project and drilled, completed and tested two wells for cold production in the Phosphoria limestone near the town of Greybull. Both wells were also subjected to a cyclic steam injection test through the mechanism of a huff and puff project. No commercial production was established.
In March 2006 the Company undertook a series of reviews of the Thermal Recovery Project, both internal and external, involving new third party consultants and existing Company personnel and consultants. Using the DOE study as a guide, the area containing oil in place was divided into zones, each with a different combination of area, porosity, oil saturation and reservoir thickness. As a result, the Company has prepared a new analysis of oil in place, recoverability factors, and thermal recovery applications, together with new maps and a substantially revised due diligence file.
In June 2006 the Company commenced a new effort to sell the Project outright or, failing an outright sale, to seek a joint venture partner with the capital and technical support capabilities to demonstrate the feasibility of recovery of the oil in place through thermal recovery techniques. All of the Company’s material is considered proprietary and valuable for use by any interested parties. Pending a sale or joint venture, the Company plans no major operations on the Project for the balance of 2006.
Most of the leases are Federal leases with the Bureau of Land Management. Lease expirations range from July 2008 to 2011. The Company has a range of options it is considering for the expirations in 2008 should no sale or joint venture be consummated by late 2006.
The Company is also actively considering a number of new techniques and technologies applicable to heavy oil operations and recovery, including a proprietary surfactant treatment, acoustic wave treatment and steam flooding. Some of these are being evaluated in conjunction with RMOTC and various universities where the Company has on-going research activities regarding this Project.
Redwater Gas Pipeline. The Redwater pipeline is approximately 63 miles of transmission gas lines with associated compressors, treatment facilities, and isolation stations. Fifty miles of the line is six-inch and the balance is four-inch. The terminus of the line is into a processing plant owned by Enbridge Pipelines Texas. There is also a tract of approximately 10 acres used by Energytec for field operations, as well as storage, warehousing, and repair facilities. At the present time the pipeline is gathering and delivering gas only from Energytec wells in the area. It has the capacity, however, to gather and deliver gas from other wells and in the future, Energytec may evaluate the potential for developing the pipeline as a gathering system for wells owned by others in the areas.
Oil and Gas Ownership and Net Interest Amounts
The following table sets forth the oil and gas produced from the net interest in producing properties owned by Energytec for the 12-month periods ended December 31, 2005, 2004, and 2003.
For the year ended December 31, 2003, Enbridge Pipeline, L.P. and Berry Petroleum accounted for 74% and 18%, respectively, of the Company’s oil and gas sales, respectively. For the year ended December 31, 2004, Enbridge Pipeline, L.P., Berry Petroleum, Flint Hills Resources, L.P., and Plains Marketing, L.P. accounted for 42%, 25%, 12% and 12%, respectively, of the Company’s oil and gas sales, respectively. For the year ended December 31, 2005, Black Hills Energy, Inc., Plains Marketing, L.P., Enbridge Pipeline, L.P., and Berry Petroleum accounted for 30%, 26%, 22%, and 11% of the Company’s oil and gas sales, respectively.
The following tables show Energytec’s ownership in producing, non-producing, development, and exploratory wells at December 31, 2005. Energytec did not hold an ownership interest in any development or exploratory wells at December 31, 2003. During the three-year period ended December 31, 2005, Energytec did not drill any dry or non-productive development or exploratory wells. A dry well is an exploratory or a development well found to be incapable of producing either oil or gas in sufficient quantities to justify completion as an oil or gas well.
(1) Gross wells are the total number of wells in which Energytec owns a working interest.
(2) “Net wells” is computed by multiplying the number of gross wells by Energytec’s working interest in the gross wells.
The following table shows the gross and net developed and undeveloped acreage held by Energytec at December 31, 2005. Net acres are gross acres adjusted by the percentage of interest in the property.
Oil and Gas Estimates and Producing Activity
The following table sets forth information as to the net proved and proved developed reserves as of December 31, 2005. “Proved reserves” are estimated quantities of crude oil, natural gas, and natural gas liquids that geological and engineering data demonstrate with reasonable certainty to be recoverable in future years from known reservoirs under existing economic and operating conditions. “Proved developed reserves” are those reserves that are expected to be recovered through existing wells with existing equipment and operating methods. “Proved undeveloped reserves” are those reserves that are expected to be recovered from new wells on un-drilled acreage or from existing wells where a relatively major expenditure is required for re-completion.
The following table also shows present value of the reserves as of December 31, 2005, (based on an annual discount rate of 10 percent) of the estimated future net revenues from the production and sales of the reserves. The future prices received on sales of production from the properties may be higher or lower than the prices used in calculating the estimates of future net revenues, and the operating costs and other costs relating to such production may also increase or decrease from existing levels.
Future net cash flows were computed using year-end prices and year-end quantities of proved reserves. Future price changes were not considered. Estimated future development and production costs are determined by estimating the expenditures to be incurred in developing and producing the proved oil and gas reserves at the end of the year, based on year-end costs and assuming continuation of existing economic conditions. Estimated future income tax expense is calculated by applying year-end statutory tax rates (adjusted for permanent differences and tax credits) to estimated future pretax net cash flows related to proved oil and gas reserves, less the tax basis of the properties involved.
These estimates are furnished and calculated in accordance with requirements of the Financial Accounting Standards Board and the Securities and Exchange Commission. Actual results may vary substantially. There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of proved reserves and in projecting future rates of production and the timing of development expenditures, including many factors beyond the control of the producer. The reserve data set forth herein only represents estimates. Reserve engineering is a subjective process of estimating underground accumulations of oil and gas that cannot be measured in an exact way, and the accuracy of any reserve estimate is a function of the quality of available data and of engineering and geological interpretation and judgment and the existence of development plans. Results of drilling, testing and production subsequent to the date of an estimate may justify a revision of such estimate. Accordingly, reserve estimates are generally different from the quantities of oil and gas that are ultimately produced. Further, the estimated future net revenues from proved reserves and the present value thereof are based upon certain assumptions, including geological success, prices, future production levels, operating costs, development costs and income taxes that may not prove to be correct. Predictions about prices and future production levels are subject to great uncertainty, and the meaningfulness of these estimates depends on the accuracy of the assumptions upon which they are based
Reserve estimates are presented in the Supplementary Information Regarding Oil and Gas Production Activities accompanying the financial statements included herein. Reserve estimates for 2005, were prepared by an independent engineering firm. Reserve estimates for 2004 were generated internally by Energytec. Reserve estimates for December 31, 2003, are based on information generated internally by Energytec and, in part, on a report prepared by an independent consultant engaged in the business of preparing reports on oil and gas properties.
Title to Properties
As is customary in the oil and gas industry, Energytec makes only a cursory review of titles to undeveloped oil and gas leases at the time they are acquired. These cursory title reviews, while consistent with industry practices, are necessarily incomplete. Energytec believes it is not economically feasible to review in depth every individual property acquired. In the case of producing property acquisitions, inspections may not always be performed on every well, and environmental problems such as ground water contamination are not necessarily observable even when an inspection is undertaken. Energytec believes it has good title to its oil and gas properties, some of which may be burdened by immaterial encumbrances, easements and restrictions. The oil and gas properties are also typically subject to royalty and similar non-cost bearing interests customary to the industry. These encumbrances or burdens are not believed to materially affect ownership or the use of the properties.
Nevertheless, there is always a risk that title to the properties may be defective, and, as a result, we could loose our right to explore on them. As is customary in the oil and gas industry, we will continue to rely on preliminary title investigation done at the time we acquire an interest in a property. If the title to the prospects should prove to be defective, we could lose the costs of acquisition, or incur substantial costs for curative title work.
Redwater Pipeline
Energytec owns a tract of approximately 10 acres in Redwater, Texas, which is located 20 miles southeast of Texarkana. We maintain an office building, shop facility and storage yard at the site. This location provides support services to the 13 wells and the 63 mile pipeline acquired in December 2002. Approximately 50 miles of the line is 6 inch and the balance is 4 inch, all of which currently transports gas for the benefit of Energytec. Eight of the wells are producing, and 4 of the wells are shut-in awaiting remedial or other work. One well was plugged subsequent to December 31, 2005.
All of the wells contain various levels of hydrogen sulfide, and we maintain safety measures for the benefit of the employees and the surrounding communities. Energytec owns equipment enabling the quick repair of leaks and allowing for on-going preventive maintenance by the staff.
The wells produce from the Smackover formation at depths of 9,000 feet and greater. While the wells largely produce natural gas, some of the wells have associated condensate in their production.
The gas is sold pursuant to an agreement with a major purchaser in the area. The original agreement ran from August 1999 to August 2004, subject to successive one-year renewal terms. During 2005, Energytec and the purchaser negotiated a new three year contract which expires October 31, 2008.
Comanche Facility
Energytec owns approximately 55 acres a few miles east of the town of Talco in Titus County, Texas. Energytec maintains its field offices at this site, which serves as the headquarters for operations in the Talco and Trix-Liz Field as well as the Sulphur Bluff Field. There are two large buildings located on the five acres closest to Highway 71. One building houses offices and the other a shop facility. The shop facility has machining, welding and fabrication equipment and services not only the needs of the Fields named but also supports services needs for the Kilgore area and Redwater, if necessary. The location also houses our inventory of pipe, parts and miscellaneous equipment. We build, re-construct, or repair almost all of our own equipment, including trailers, well service units, drilling rigs and supporting equipment such as water trucks.
Offices
Energytec leases office space from an executive office lessor at 14785 Preston Road, Suite 550, Dallas, Texas 75254. This executive office arrangement includes twelve executive offices, the use of two conference rooms, telephone answering and reception services, photo copy services, word processing and secretarial services, and mail and delivery services, all at fixed fees in place until August 2006. Energytec pays approximately $11,000 per month for the bundled office space and services.
ITEM 3.