ITEM 2. PROPERTIES.
Oil and Gas Properties
Owl Creek Project
Location and Access. The Owl Creek Project is a re-entry of the Morris E. Stewart Johnson #1 and the Plymouth Oil Co. Powell #1 wells located two miles north-northwest of the town of Paoli in McClain County, Oklahoma. This property can be reached by a paved county road and then by a short gravel road.
Proposed Program of Exploration. During 2008, we did not participate in any drilling on the project prior to its sale in August 2008.
Cost Estimates Including Previous Work. Through the date of its sale, we had expended $1,998,853 in connection with the Owl Creek Project, including leasing and title examination.
Activities Conducted by Brinx. In early June 2006, we acquired a 50% interest in an additional 85 leased acres located at the eastern end of the Owl Creek Prospect, increasing the project’s scope to over 1,200 acres. We paid $17,000 for the additional acreage. We completed the Powell #1 well on the Owl Creek Prospect in early February 2006. As of October 31, 2006, the Powell #1 well has produced 1,280 Bbl and 8,227 Mcf of natural gas. The well is currently shut in and may be converted to a saltwater disposal well in the near future. We held a 70% interest in the Powell #1 well.
On June 1, 2006, we sold an undivided 20% of our 70% interest in the Powell #2 well and untested spacing units to Delta Oil and Gas Inc., a Nevada corporation (“Delta”), for a lump sum cash payment of $300,000. Delta has funded its portion of the completion cost of the Powell #2 as well as costs related to future wells on the project. As a result of the sale to Delta, our interest was reduced to 50% interest in the Powell #2 well.
Subsequent to the sale to Delta, we completed drilling the Powell #2 well in June 2006. As of October 31, 2007, the Powell #2 well had produced 62,935 Bbls of oil and 19,189 Mcf of natural gas. In early April 2007, the Powell #2 well was placed on a submersible pump.
On August 3, 2006, we sold an additional 7.5% interest of our 50% interest in the untested acreage in the Owl Creek Prospect to Lexaria for a lump sum payment of $100,000. As a result of the sale to Lexaria, our interest in the untested acreage in the Owl Creek Project was reduced to 42.5%.
In late August 2006, we commenced drilling an offset well to the Powell #2 well, the Isbill #1 well. The well reached a total depth of 5,775 feet in mid-September 2006. After examination of the well logs it was determined that the sands that were producing in the Powell #2 were too thin in the Isbill #1 to produce economic quantities of oil and gas. The Isbill #1 well was plugged and abandoned. We held a 42.5% interest in the Isbill #1 well.
We commenced drilling of the Isbill #2 well, a direct offset well to the Powell #2, in February 2007. The Isbill #2 well reached a total depth of 5,700 feet in mid-March 2007. The Isbill #2 well was successfully completed and was placed into production in early April 2007. The Isbill #2 well produced 9,020 Bbls of oil and 2,489 Mcf of natural gas through October 31, 2007. We held a 42.5% interest in the Isbill #2 well.
On August 29, 2008, we sold our working interests in the Owl Creek Project to an unrelated third party for net proceeds of $3,068,544.
Three Sands Project
Location and Access. The Three Sands Project is an oil and gas exploration project located in Noble County, Oklahoma. The property can be reached by Oklahoma State Highway 77 and then accessed by a secondary gravel and dirt road.
Previous Operations and History. The Three Sands field was drilled on 10-acre spacing in the 1920s and 1930s and was very active in producing over 200 million Bbls of oil and an unknown amount of gas from a six-section (3,800 acres) area. However, during this period, most wells were abandoned within twenty years as the wells became commercially unviable due to the lack of technology. In particular, during this period, technology was not available, as it is today, to handle high volumes of water and its subsequent disposal, nor was it capable of drilling in areas where the tightness of rock limited flow.
The primary targets of the Three Sands Project are the Arbuckle, Wilcox and Viola Formations. These were the deep pay zones first discovered in the field, and in addition to the oil they produced, large amounts of water were eventually produced forcing the abandonment of the well. Today the water problem has been overcome with down hole electrical high volume pumps and adequate disposal wells, allowing continued exploration.
Geology of the Three Sands Project. Geologically, this field is a balded structure in which a combination of structure and erosion has aided in producing the field. Pay zones in the project vary from the Arbuckle to the Pennsylvanian and are productive over a 5,000-foot interval that starts at less than 1,000 feet from the surface. In a 2004 drill test, more than two-dozen pay zones were encountered (some of which have not been produced).
Proposed Program of Exploration. Utilizing previously completed 3-D seismic survey data and information gained from the drilling, completion and production of the Williams #4-10, we anticipate drilling an additional two to four wells at the Three Sands Project during fiscal 2008. These wells will be approximately 5,000 feet deep.
Cost Estimates Including Previous Work. As of October 31, 2008, we have expended $1,196,600 in connection with the Three Sands Project, including leasing, title, drilling, and casing.
Present Activities. Drilling of the Kodesh #1 disposal well was completed on October 3, 2005 and drilling of the Kodesh #2 well was completed on October 23, 2005. Completion and equipping of these wells took place during mid-December 2005 through early January 2006. The Kodesh #2 well is now producing oil and gas on a daily basis and as of October 31, 2008, it has produced 2,998 Bbls of oil and 4,086 Mcf of natural gas. The well is now producing natural gas in very small quantities.
During January 2007, we re-entered the Dye Estate #1 well. Production of natural gas from the Dye Estate #1 well commenced in mid-August 2007. The Dye Estate #1 well has produced 993 Mcf of natural gas and is currently averaging natural gas production at a rate of 6 Mcf per day. Water from the Dye Estate #1 well is being disposed in the Kodesh #1 disposal well.
We commenced drilling the William #4-10 well in early June 2007, reaching a total depth of 4,810 feet in mid-June 2007. Electric and radiation logs indicated that the William #4-10 well contained four potential commercial pay zones, the Wilcox Sand, Mississippi Lime, Layton Sand and the Tonkawa Sand. Completion of the lowest zone, the Wilcox Sand, occurred in mid-August 2007. Production from the William #4-10 well started in mid-October 2007. During the first quarter of 2008, we perforated, fracture treated and tested the Mississippi Lime and the lower Layton Sand to increase the production rate of both gas and oil from the Williams #4-10 well and provide data regarding the potential of these formations for the remainder of the leases on the Three Sands Project. As of October 31, 2008, the Williams 4-10 has produced 1,368 barrels oil and 10,136 mcf of gas.
Drilling commenced on the KC 80 #1-11 well at the Three Sands Project in mid-February 2008 and reached total depth of 4,720 feet by the end of February 2008. The KC 80 #1-11 has been surveyed with radiation and electrical logs. The primary target for the well is the upper Mississippian Limestone and Chat Formation. The KC-80 well’s logs indicate significant thickness of Chat and upper Mississippi Limestone with good porosity, permeability, and hydrocarbon shows.
Completion of the KC 80 #1-11 well started in late April 2008. The lowest pay zone, the Mississippian was acidized and partially fracture treated. In early August a similar treatment was given to the Chat zone or the horizon that lies above the lowest pay zone. As of October 31, 2008, the KC 80 #1-11 well is producing at a rate of 12 Bbls of oil and 46 MCF of natural gas daily. As of October 31, 2008, the KC 80-1-11 has produced 2,196 barrels of oil and 7,581 MCF of natural gas.
Palmetto Point Project
Location and Access. The Palmetto Point Project is located on the border of southern Mississippi and Louisiana along the floodplain of the Mississippi river. The area is approximately 20 miles west of Woodville, Mississippi and approximately 50 miles northwest of Baton Rouge, Louisiana. The wells are located in Township 2 North, Ranges 4 & 5, in West Adams and Wilkinson Counties in the state of Mississippi. The area may be accessed via Interstate 55 (approximately 100 miles south of Jackson, Mississippi) and then west via state highways. The drill locations are accessed by secondary gravel and dirt roads. Transporting natural gas to the market will be accomplished via a series of pipelines which cross the project area.
Previous Operations and History. Griffin & Griffin, the operator for the Palmetto Point Project, has over 40 years of operations history in the Palmetto Point Project area and has acquired substantial data and 3-D seismic for the Palmetto Point Project. To date, Griffin & Griffin has drilled, owned or operated more than 100 Frio wells in the region. More specifically, Griffin & Griffin has drilled to a subsurface depth and has penetrated the sands of the Frio Formation on the Palmetto Point Project.
Geology of the Palmetto Point Project. The prospect wells were located to test the Frio Geological Formation. Frio wells typically enjoy low finding costs. Griffin & Griffin has utilized seismic “bright spot” technology, which that helps to identify gas reservoirs and to delineate reservoir geometry and limits. The term “bright spot” is used to describe a geophysical amplitude anomaly, which is simply a velocity change from a higher velocity to lower velocity. Sands that contain gas are predictable by this method because the gas will provide a slower velocity response giving an abnormally intense trough-peak reflections, therefore termed a “bright spot”. The data evaluation in the Frio section gives a direct hydrocarbon indication (“HCI”) allowing one to not only see gas seismically, but also the lateral extent of each gas reservoir at various depths to include multiple horizons at some locations.
The gas targets at the Palmetto Point Project occur at shallow depths and have minimal completion costs. The Frio in the area of Southwest Mississippi and North-Central Louisiana is a very complex series of sand representing marine transgressions and regressions and resulting in the presence of varying depositional environments. Structurally, the Frio gas accumulations are a function of local structure and/or structural nose formed as a result of differential compaction features. However, stratigraphic termination (updip pinchout of sands within shales) also plays a role in most Frio accumulations. The stratigraphy is so complex that seismic direct HCI evaluations are presently the only viable exploratory tool for the Frio prospect.
Proposed Program of Exploration. The Palmetto Point Project program has been completed and no further exploration wells are planned. We are assessing additional development wells in the Belmont Lake oil field discovered by the PP well. The Mississippi Frio-Wilcox Joint Venture program described below is the successor to the Palmetto Point Program and will continue our exploration and development in the Frio and Wilcox.
Cost Estimates Including Previous Work. As of October 31, 2008, we have expended $553,568 in connection with the Palmetto Point Project, including leasing, title, drilling, and casing.
Present Activities. As of October 31, 2007, Griffin & Griffin, operator of the Palmetto Point Project, drilled all ten of the wells in the Palmetto Point Project. Eight of the wells were successful and two were dry holes which were not completed. Seven of the eight successful wells were completed and are currently producing. One of the eight wells, the PP, was completed as a flowing oil well in early October 2007. The PP well flowed oil at rates of over 100 bbls per day and in December 2007 was offset by two additional wells in the project, the PP-2 and PP-3. The PP-2 was a dry hole and the PP was completed as a flowing oil well.
Both the PP PP oil well locations and several of our gas well locations have been flooded at the Palmetto Point Project. Prior to the flooding, we had partly completed work to install gas lift pumps at each well; however, the work could not be completed before the locations were flooded. There has been virtually no damage to our surface equipment located at the well heads, as our batteries and other production facilities are located above the flood waters. Thus far, the only damage has been to our recent lost production because the well had to be shut-in. We do not believe that the flooding will adversely affect future oil recovery from these wells.
In early September 2008, flood waters had receded sufficiently and work began on placing the PP and PP-3 back on line and producing oil. Gas lift pumps were installed on both wells and other modification and additional equipment such as compressors were also installed. At the end of October 2008, both wells were producing oil at combined rates of between 150 and 200 barrels of oil per day.
During the three-month period ended October 31, 2008, 2,837 Bbls of oil and 16,999 MCF of natural gas were produced at the Palmetto Point Project. All of the oil was produced in October 2008.
Mississippi Frio-Wilcox Joint Venture
Location and Access. The Mississippi Frio-Wilcox Joint Venture is located on the border of southern Mississippi and Louisiana along the floodplain of the Mississippi river. The area is approximately 20 miles west of Woodville, Mississippi and approximately 50 miles northwest of Baton Rouge, Louisiana. The wells are located in Township 2 North, Ranges 4 & 5, in West Adams and Wilkinson Counties in the state of Mississippi. The area is accessible via Interstate 55 (approximately 100 miles south of Jackson, Mississippi) and then west via state
highways. The drill locations are accessed by secondary gravel and dirt roads. Transporting natural gas to the market will be accomplished via a series of pipelines which cross the project area.
Previous Operations and History. As described above, we participated in the ten-well Palmetto Point Project program in the same area as the Mississippi Frio-Wilcox Joint Venture. The Mississippi Frio-Wilcox Joint Venture is the successor to the Palmetto Point Project. Griffin & Griffin, the operator for the Palmetto Point Project, is also the operator for the Mississippi Frio-Wilcox Joint Venture. Griffin & Griffin has over 40 years of operations history in the Mississippi Frio-Wilcox Joint Venture area and has acquired substantial data and 3-D seismic for the Mississippi Frio-Wilcox Joint Venture. To date, Griffin & Griffin has drilled, owned or operated more than 100 Frio wells in the region.
Geology of the Palmetto Point Project. The prospect wells are located to test the Frio Geological Formation. The gas targets at the Mississippi Frio-Wilcox Joint Venture occur at shallow depths and have minimal completion costs. The Frio in the area of Southwest Mississippi and North-Central Louisiana is a very complex series of sand representing marine transgressions and regressions and resulting in the presence of varying depositional environments. Structurally, the Frio gas accumulations are a function of local structure and/or structural nose formed as a result of differential compaction features. However, stratigraphic termination (updip pinchout of sands within shales) also plays a role in most Frio accumulations. The stratigraphy is so complex that seismic HCI evaluations are the only viable exploratory tool for the Mississippi Frio-Wilcox Joint Venture.
Proposed Program of Exploration. On June 21, 2007, we assigned our interests and all future development obligations for any new wells in the Mississippi Frio-Wilcox Joint Venture to Lexaria for the sum of $1. We believe the assigned interest to be of nominal value. We have maintained our original interest, rights, title and benefits to all seven wells drilled with our participation at the Mississippi Frio-Wilcox Joint Venture between August 3, 2006 and June 19, 2007, specifically wells CMR-USA-39-14, Dixon #1, Faust #1 TEC, CMR/BR, RB Red Bug #2, BR, and Randall #1, and any offset wells that could be drilled to any of these specified wells.
Cost Estimates Including Previous Work. As of October 31, 2008, we have expended $400,000 in connection with the Mississippi Frio-Wilcox Joint Venture, including leasing, title, drilling, and casing.
Present Activities. Nine wells were drilled on the Mississippi Frio-Wilcox Joint Venture, of which, five wells were initially deemed successful and four wells were dry holes and were not completed. One of the five wells initially deemed to be successful was the BR. However, subsequent testing of the BR indicated that it was not commercially viable and the well was plugged and abandoned in 2007. The four remaining successful wells were the Faust #1, USA 39-14, USA 1-37 and the BR. The USA 39-14 has been completed and is now producing natural gas. During the three-month period ended October 31, 2008, 32,662 MCF of natural gas were produced at the Mississippi Joint Venture Project. All of the oil was produced in October 2008.
Production and Prices
The following table sets forth information regarding net production of oil and natural gas, and certain price and cost information for fiscal years ended October 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006.
Productive Wells
The following table summarizes information at October 31, 2008, relating to the productive wells in which we owned a working interest as of that date. Productive wells consist of producing wells and wells capable of production, but specifically exclude wells drilled and cased during the fiscal year that have yet to be tested for completion (e.g., all of the operated wells drilled by the Company during this year have been cased in preparation for completion, but no operations have been initiated that would allow these wells to be productive). Gross wells are the total number of producing wells in which we have an interest, and net wells are the sum of our fractional working interests in the gross wells.
Unaudited Oil and Gas Reserve Quantities
The following unaudited reserve estimates for Oklahoma, presented as of October 31, 2008, were prepared by J L. Thomas Engineering, an independent petroleum engineering firm. The unaudited reserve estimates for Mississippi and Louisiana, as of October 31, 2008, were prepared by Veazey & Associates, an independent petroleum engineering firm.
The combined estimated proved reserves prepared by J L. Thomas Engineering and Veazey and Associates are summarized in the table below, in accordance with definitions and pricing requirements as prescribed by the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”). Prices paid for oil and natural gas vary widely depending upon the quality such as the Btu content of the natural gas, gravity of the oil, sulfur content and location of the production related to the refinery or pipelines.
There are many uncertainties inherent in estimating proved reserve quantities and in projecting future production rates and the timing of development expenditures. In addition, reserve estimates of new discoveries that have little production history are more imprecise than those of properties with more production history. Accordingly, these estimates are expected to change as future information becomes available.
Proved oil and gas reserves are the estimated quantities of crude oil and natural gas which geological and engineering data demonstrate with reasonable certainty to be recoverable in future years from known reservoirs under existing economic and operating conditions.
Proved developed oil and gas reserves are those reserves expected to be recovered through existing wells with existing equipment and operating methods.
Unaudited net quantities of proved developed and undeveloped reserves of crude oil and natural gas (all located within United States) are as follows:
Oil and Gas Acreage
The following table sets forth the undeveloped and developed acreage, by area, held by us as of October 31, 2008. Undeveloped acres are acres on which wells have not been drilled or completed to a point that would permit the production of commercial quantities of oil and gas, regardless of whether or not such acreage contains proved reserves. Developed acres are acres, which are spaced or assignable to productive wells. Gross acres are the total number of acres in which we have a working interest. Net acreage is obtained by multiplying gross acreage by our working interest percentage in the properties. The table does not include acreage in which we have a contractual right to acquire or to earn through drilling projects, or any other acreage for which we have not yet received leasehold assignments. It should be noted that the acreage in the Owl Creek prospect was disposed of in August 2008.
Drilling Activity
The following table sets forth our drilling activity during the years ended October 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006.
Mineral Property
Antelope Pass Project
We suspended activities on the Antelope Pass Project indefinitely in order to focus on our oil and gas properties in 2005. We did not conduct any operations or exploration activities on the Antelope Pass Project during the fiscal years ended October 31, 2007 or 2006. To date, we have expended $8,207 in connection with the Antelope Pass Project, including geological mapping, sampling and assaying.
Location and Access. The Antelope Pass Project is located in west central Hidalgo County, New Mexico, approximately ten miles east of the New Mexico-Arizona border. The Antelope Pass Project lies in the Peloncillo Mountains, 35 miles southwest of Lordsburg, New Mexico. The closest major air service to the property is located in Tucson, Arizona. Access to the property is from Tucson traveling east via Interstate Highway 10 for approximately 130 miles to the Animas, New Mexico exit. From that exit, travel is south 20 miles on State Highway 338 to the town of Animas and then west for seven miles via State Highway 9. The property can be reached on gravel roads and dirt tracks.
The property is comprised of low hills and alluvial valleys, with elevations ranging from a low of 4,480 feet to a high of 4,580 feet. Vegetation is sparse and includes desert grasses, cacti, and creosote bushes. The Antelope Pass Project consists of eight unpatented lode mining claims totaling 160 acres, situated in Township 27 South, Range 20 West, Sections 18 and 19 and Township 27 South, Range 21 West, Sections 13 and 24. A lode is a mineral deposit in consolidated rock as opposed to a placer deposit, which is a deposit of sand or gravel that contains particles of gold, ilmenite, gemstones, or other heavy minerals of value.
The claims are located on federal lands under the administration of the Bureau of Land Management (BLM). They are not subject to any royalties, but annual maintenance fees must be paid to the BLM of $125 per claim or a total of $1,000 for the entire claim block to keep them valid. Including federal and county filing fees, an expenditure of approximately $125 per claim for total payment of $1,000 per year for the entire claim block is required to keep the claims valid.
Under the General Mining Law of 1872, which governs our mining claims and leases, we, as the holder of the claim, have the right to develop the minerals located in the land identified in the claim. We must pay an annual maintenance fee of $125 per claim to hold the claim. Claims can be held indefinitely with or without mineral production, subject to challenge if not developed. Using land under an unpatented mining claim for anything but mineral and associated purposes violates the General Mining Law of 1872.
Office Space
We are using the offices of Leroy Halterman, our sole officer. These offices are located at 820 Piedra Vista Road NE, Albuquerque, NM 87123. Reimbursement for use of the office space is included in the management fee paid to the officer.
ITEM 3.