ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
Beeston does not have any investments or interests in any real estate. Beeston also does not invest in real estate mortgages, nor does Beeston invest in securities of, or interests in, persons primarily engaged in real estate activities.
Ruth Lake Property
In September, 2006, we acquired a 100% interest in 19 mineral claims, totaling in excess of 9,200 hectares, located in the Province of British Columbia, Canada, referred to collectively as the “Ruth Lake Property,” In our efforts to further the exploration and development of this large tract of acquired mineral claims, we have continuously reviewed the possibility of participating in some form of joint venture or option arrangement with other entities on a portion of these mineral claim holdings. Accordingly, since acquiring this property, we have entered into various arrangements with other companies to carry out exploration work on various mineral claims that comprise the Ruth Lake Property, as hereinafter set forth.
In January, 2007, when Beeston entered into an agreement with Kranti Resources, Inc. (“Kranti”) under which we granted that company an option to acquire a mineral claim comprising part of the Ruth Lake Property from our larger mineral claim holdings by the payment of cash and the performance of a series of work programs over a period of four years. Upon acquisition of the mineral claim by Kranti, it would be required to pay a certain royalty to Beeston and the prior owner of the mineral claims based on a percentage of any net smelter returns derived from the mineral claim. Kranti incurred a total of $25,000 in exploration before defaulting on the balance of its required exploration commitment and as a result the agreement with Kranti was terminated on August 5, 2010.
In September, 2009, the Company entered into an agreement with Mariposa Resources, Ltd. (“Mariposa”) under which we granted Mariposa an option to acquire a fifty percent (50%) interest in and to certain mineral claims comprising part of the Ruth Lake Property, which option could be exercised through the payment of common shares to Beeston and the performance of
exploration work upon the optioned mineral claims over a two year period. Upon Mariposa acquiring a fifty percent (50%) interest in the mineral claims optioned from Beeston, either Mariposa or Beeston could require participation of the other in the further exploration and development of the optioned mineral claims pursuant to a joint venture. Mariposa was also responsible for maintaining the optioned mineral claims in good standing. To the extent that Beeston became obligated to pay any fees to maintain the optioned mineral claims, Mariposa would be required to reimburse the Company.
On March 24, 2010, the Company entered into an agreement with Mariposa extending the date for the payment of shares of its common stock to Beeston, as part of the exercise of the option to purchase under the option agreement with Beeston, for an additional three months in consideration of Mariposa increasing the exploration work required as part of the exercise of the option to purchase the mineral claims it optioned from Beeston. The Company entered into a another agreement with Mariposa on June 24, 2010, under which Beeston granted Mariposa a further extension for the payment of shares of its common stock and for the completion of its initial exploration and development as required under the option agreement with Beeston until December 31, 2010, in consideration for an increase in the number of shares payable as part of the exercise of the option to purchase the mining claims.
On November 3, 2010, due to the failure of Mariposa to maintain the mining claims under option from Beeston, the mining claims were allowed to lapse. On November 30, 2010 Mariposa merged with its wholly owned subsidiary “Lithium Exploration Group, Inc.” (“Lithium”). Beeston has since been able to reclaim four of the eight mining claims originally under option to Lithium (“Mariposa”). As of December 31, 2010, Lithium was in default under the terms of its agreement. Lithium terminated its option agreement with Beeston, by notice dated February 14, 2011, effective March 17, 2011. Following the termination of the option agreement by Lithium, the Company entered into negotiations with Lithium in regard to its claims against Lithium for the outstanding debts, the loss of four mining claims and the ongoing maintenance requirements for the reclaimed mining claims. On May 3, 2011, the Company reached a settlement with Lithium in regard to all of its claims against Lithium. Under the terms of the settlement, Beeston received the sum of $58,000 and 200,000 restricted shares of common stock of Lithium in full and complete settlement of all claims against Lithium including, but without limitation, all claims for the payment of various amounts due and owing to Beeston by Lithium under the terms of the Option Agreement for past and future mining claim maintenance fees, the costs for re-claiming four of the eight mining claims optioned under the Option Agreement and damages for the loss of four mining claims.
On August 9, 2010, the Company entered into an agreement with Okana Ventures, Inc. ("Okana"), a junior mining company, under which the Company granted Okana an option to purchase a certain mineral claim comprising part of its Ruth Lake Property by the payment of cash and the performance of a series of work programs over a period of four years. The mineral claim optioned to Okana is subject to a royalty of 2% of net smelter returns payable to the original owner of the claim with a payout of $1,000,000 (CAD), and an additional royalty of 2% of net smelter returns payable to the Company, with a payout of $2,000,000 (CAD). This option to purchase was terminated by Okana by notice effective April 27, 2011.
In September, 2009, the Company entered into an agreement with USA Uranium Corp (“USAU”) under which we granted USAU an option to acquire a fifty percent (50%) interest in and to certain mineral claims comprising part of the Ruth Lake Property, which option could be exercised through the payment of common shares to Beeston and the performance of exploration work upon the optioned mineral claims over a two year period. Upon USAU acquiring a fifty percent (50%) interest in the mineral claims optioned from Beeston, either USAU or Beeston
could require participation of the other in the further exploration and development of the optioned mineral claims pursuant to a joint venture. USAU was also responsible for maintaining the optioned mineral claims in good standing. To the extent that Beeston became obligated to pay any fees to maintain the optioned mineral claims, USAU would be required to reimburse the Company.
As of September 24, 2010, USAU was in default of its exploration work requirement under its option agreement with Beeston. On October, 26, 2010, following discussions with USAU regarding its default as well as its inability to cover the on-going property maintenance costs as required under its option agreement with Beeston, the Company and USAU entered into an agreement pursuant to which the parties agreed to the issuance of shares of the common stock of USUA to Beeston in satisfaction and settlement of the default and the outstanding debt. USAU is to issue 26,956,120 common shares in satisfaction of the exploration work for which it was in default and a further 23,043,880 common shares in settlement of its outstanding debt for the payment of on-going property maintenance payments made on its behalf by Beeston. The parties also agreed to reduce the number of mining claims covered by the option agreement between them, from nine claims to four claims, in consideration of USAU agreeing to issue 75,000,000 common shares to Beeston. On November 2, 2010, USA allowed the four claims that remained under option to it from Beeston to lapse. These four mining claims were reclaimed by Beeston at a cost of $1,064(CAD).
As of September 24, 2011, USAU was again in default under its option agreement with Beeston. The Company is currently in discussion with USAU regarding this current default. In addition, USAU allowed the four claims which are optioned to it from Beeston to lapse on November 3, 2011. We have since reclaimed these optioned mining claims at a cost of $1,158 (CAD). This reclaiming cost is payable to Beeston by USAU under the terms of its option agreement with Beeston.
Location and Access
The Ruth Lake Property is located approximately 25 kilometers east of the Town of Lac La Hache or approximately 60 kilometers north-east of the Town of 100 Mile House. The area can be reached via the Forest Grave/Canim Lake Road just to the north of 100 Mile House or by a network of logging roads and tracks which extend east of Lac La Hache. From the Canim Lake Road, 500 Road branches to the north 7 kilometers to the south of Ruth Lake Park and passes through the east centre of the claims and from this road a network of logging roads accesses most of the property.
The terrain in the area in which our mineral properties are located is well forested with rolling hills, and elevations ranging from 915-1525 meters. The climate is generally dry with a warm summer and a cold winter. Precipitation ranges from 42-62 centimeters per year with up to 30 centimeters occurring as snow. While some exploration work such as trenching and drilling could be carried out all year long, generally, exploration in the area is limited to an eight month period running from April to October. Any exploration programs would be carried out during this eight month period.
Accommodations as well as supplies and equipment are available at the Towns of Lac La Hache or 100 Mile House. Electricity lines run up to the boundaries of the mineral properties; however, most power requirements can be provided by the use of on-site generators. Competition and unforeseen limited sources of supplies and manpower in the industry could result in occasional spot shortages of supplies, such as dynamite, and certain equipment such as bulldozers, excavators and drilling equipment that may be needed in any exploration, as well as skilled
manpower to conduct exploration. In general, however, the area has an excellent infrastructure with a skilled workforce, rail, roads and power capacity.
Ownership Interest
In Canada, all lands and minerals initially rest in the Federal and Provincial Governments in the name of Her Majesty, and the rights to the lands and minerals have been acquired by private individuals under Crown Grants. Early in the history of Canada the practice of reserving the minerals from the Crown Grants of land became an established practice and eventually this practice became law under legislation. The result is that the Crown is the largest mineral owner in Canada, both as the fee simple owner of Crown lands and through mineral reservations in Crown Grants. Under the Canadian Constitution, minerals located within a province vest in that province. In the case of our interests in mineral properties, that is the Province of British Columbia.
In British Columbia, most of the minerals are owned by the Province. Rights to explore and develop these minerals are obtained as a form of tenure issued by the Province of British Columbia, which is recorded in the Mineral Titles Office as a mineral claim. Mineral claims are defined as a “chattel” under the Mineral Tenure Act of British Columbia and are not an interest in land, but rather, only carry with them the right to enter upon the mineral claim land for the purpose of exploration for minerals and developing any minerals found thereon up to the point of a producing mine.
At such time as the exploration and development carried out upon a mineral claim has progressed to the stage of a mineable mineral deposit, the mineral claim holder can apply to the Miners Titles Office for the grant of a lease of the property comprising the area of the mineral deposit find. Mineral leases can be up to a 30 year term, and are renewable. A mining lease increases the mineral claim holders rights in the land contained in the mineral claim and is considered an interest in the land.
The mineral claims comprising our Ruth Lake Property have been located and recorded pursuant to the Mineral Tenure Act of the Province of British Columbia. As the owner of the mineral claims comprising the Ruth Lake Property, we and our optionees have the right to explore and develop these mineral claims and recover all of the minerals contained within the surface boundaries of these properties and continuing vertically downward.
Under the Mineral Tenure Act, mineral claims can only be located and recorded by residents of Canada. In order to comply with that requirement, we could either have the title to our mineral properties held “in trust” for us by one of our directors or officers residing in British Columbia, or we could create a wholly owned subsidiary company in British Columbia to be the registered owner of our mineral properties. To avoid the cost of creating and maintaining a wholly owned subsidiary company, we have chosen to register the claims comprising the Ruth Lake Property in the name of our President, who holds them in trust for us. In the event we find that a commercially viable mineral deposit on any of our mineral claims, we will form a wholly owned subsidiary company in British Columbia, and our President will transfer registered title to such wholly owned subsidiary company.
All of the mineral claims currently comprising the Ruth Lake Property are unencumbered. There are no native land claims that affect title to our various interests in mineral claims. There is no insurance covering any of our properties and we believe that no insurance is necessary since the mining properties are unimproved and contain no buildings or plant and equipment
History of Exploration
The Ruth Lake Property has not received much exploration as some of the surrounding properties, such as GWR Resources Inc.’s “Lac La Hache Property”, located approximately 10 km northwest of the Ruth Lake Property. What prior exploration has taken place on or near this property has provided indications that the area has the potential to host a copper-gold deposit or a molybdenite deposit. However, the exploration work carried out by Kranti on a small portion of the Ruth Lake Property under it option agreement with Beeston, which consisted mainly of a grid system of soil sampling, did not reveal any significant results.
Following the release of an airborne radiometric and magnetic geophysical survey of the Ruth Lake Property, Mr. Rob Shives, formerly of Geological Survey of Canada, carried out a geophysical analysis of the property, utilizing the data obtained from the airborne survey. As a result, he was able to identify numerous targets on a number of the mining claims comprising the Ruth Lake Property properties for the Company on which it focused its initial exploration work. Each target area was explored by geochemical soil sampling and prospecting under the supervision of Mr. Gruenwald, P. Eng. Anomalous cooper-in-soil was detected near the edge of one target area and cooper mineralization was sighted along a newly constructed logging road near this area. In addition to the results of the exploration program, historic assessment reports relating to the southern part of the property reported sporadic molybdenite-in-soil geochemical anomalies over a north-south length of 750 metres. Molybdenite and small amounts of chalcopyrite were described as disseminations and fracture fillings in altered, silicified and locally quartz veined granite float and bedrock. While some drilling was performed, there are no records of results.
Plan of Operation
Due to the on-going costs of maintaining the large number of mining claims that comprise the Ruth Lake Property, we have reduced our holdings of mining claims in this area. Based on the results of our initial exploration program and the historic data on the property, further exploration is planned for those mining claims we have retained. However, as a result of our existing option of a large tract of the Ruth Lake Property to a junior mining company that is currently in default under its agreement with us, exploration by the Company on the Ruth Lake Property has been postponed pending the outcome of discussion with the defaulting party.
Geology
The property is situated within the Quesnel Trough, a renowned geologic belt that hosts numerous base and precious metal deposits along with current and formerly producing mines. It is located 10 kilometres northeast of GWR Resources Inc.’s Lac La Hache property where ongoing exploration continues to delineate porphyry copper-gold-silver/skarn, copper-magnetite-gold-silver deposits and is situated between producing mines at Imperial Metals Corporation’s Mt. Polley copper-gold mine and New Gold Inc.'s New Afton copper-gold project (Teck-Cominco Ltd’s legendary Afton mine).
Chucker Property
On August 26, 2011, we entered into an agreement with MSM Resource, L.L.C. ("MSM"), a Nevada limited liability company, pursuant to which we undertook to pay for a geology report to be prepared on eighteen mineral claims located in the Silver Star Mining District, Mineral County, Nevada (the "Chucker Property"). Upon completion of the geology report, we have ten
(10) days to review it and if the geology report is deemed acceptable to us, we will proceed with the optioning of the Chucker Property in accordance with the terms of our agreement with MSM.
In order for us to be able to exercise the option and acquire a 100% interest in the Chucker Property, we are required to make the following payments to MSM and incur the expenses indicated, commencing from the date of acceptance of the geology report by us (the Effective Date”), namely:
(1) an initial payment of $20,000 and the issue of 1,000,000 restricted common shares on the Effective Date,
(2) pay a further $30,000 and issue 1,000,000 restricted common shares 18 months after the Effective Date,
(3) pay a further $50,000 and issue 1,000,000 restricted common shares 36 months after the Effective Date,
(4) pay a further $50,000 48 months after the Effective Date,
(5) pay a further $50,000 60 months after the Effective Date,
(6) pay a further $50,000 72 months after the Effective Date,
(7) incur expenditures on the Chucker Property in the amount of $500,000, or make a cash payment to MSM in lieu of incurring part or all of the expenditures, within 24 months of the Effective Date,
(8) incur and/or pay cash in lieu of expenditures on the Chucker Property in the amount of $500,000 within 48 months of the Effective Date, and
(6) incur and/or pay cash in lieu of expenditures on the Chucker Property in the amount of $1,000,000 within 72 months of the Effective Date.
We may also make an equivalent cash payment to MSM, in lieu of incurring part or all of the expenditures required to be incurred in order to exercise the option, and any such payments made by us to MSM will be deemed to be part of the expenditures required to be incurred in order to exercise the option.
Provided we have, on or before the Effective Date, made the above mentioned payments to MSM and incurred the expenses indicated as aforesaid, we shall have the right to exercise the option to acquire a 100% interest in the Chucker Property up to and including the date which is seventy-five (75) months from the Effective Date (the “Expiration Date”), after which Expiration Date the Option shall lapse and no longer be of any force and effect. The option under the option agreement with MSM can be also be terminated by us at any time upon thirty (30) days notice.
If we acquire the Chucker Property, the claims will be subject to a royalty of 2% of net smelter returns payable to MSM up to a maximum royalty payment of $5,000,000. We can also reduce the royalty to 1% with a maximum royalty payment to $2,500,000 by payment of $1,000,000 to MSM within a limited time period of seventy-five months. In addition, in the event we exercise our option and acquire the Chucker Property, we will be required to pay an annuity of $50,000 to MSM commencing on the date that is seven years after the Effective Date and on the anniversary thereof in each and every year thereafter for a total of seventeen years.
We have undertaken the preparation of a geology report as required under the aforesaid agreement. It is anticipated that this report will not be ready shortly.
ITEM 3.