ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
On September 12, 2006, we entered into an agreement (the “Mineral Claim Purchase Agreement”) with Candorado Operating Company Ltd. (“Candorado”), an unrelated third party, pursuant to which we acquired a 100% interest in 19 mineral claims, totaling in excess of 9,200 hectares, upon the payment of the purchase price of $50,000 CAD on September 15, 2006. Under the terms of the agreement we are required to pay a royalty to Candorado of 2% of “net smelter returns”, as that term is defined in the Mineral Claim Purchase Agreement, on any production from the Ruth Lake Property. In the event that we did not maintain any of the mineral claims comprising the Ruth Lake Property in good standing with the Mineral Titles Branch in British Columbia, Canada for a period of one year from each anniversary date of the purchase of the claims, by either carrying out the minimum required assessment work or paying the prescribed assessment fee in lieu of performing assessment work for each such claim, Candorado could have paid the assessment fee within 30 days of the date required for such payment. We would have then have had the option of either reimbursing Candorado for the assessment fees paid to maintain any of the mineral claims comprising the Ruth Lake Property and retaining ownership of these mineral claims, or abandoning the mineral claims and transferring ownership thereof back to Candorado. These mining claims were not being maintained for a period of at least one year in advance of the anniversary date of purchase, and Candorado has not exercised its right to pay the maintenance fees and take them over. As a result of such waiver, the Company is no longer required to keep these mining claims in good standing for at least one year, and has no further obligation to Candorado, other than the original royalty interest.
Subsequent to the acquisition of the Ruth Lake Property, we entered into an agreement (the “Option Agreement”) with Candorado dated December 15, 2006. Under the terms of this Option Agreement, we had the right to acquire up to a 60% interest in three mineral claims, comprising approximately 1,550 hectares, currently owned by Candorado. These three mineral claims are known as the “Bluff Lake Property” and are located approximately 8 kilometers to the North West of our Ruth Lake Property. We paid $5,000 CAD to Candorado at the time of signing the Option Agreement and could have acquired a 50% interest in the Bluff Lake Property by paying $45,000 CAD to Candorado on or before January 31, 2007, and by carrying out a $200,000 CAD exploration program thereon by December 15, 2007. We could have acquired a further 10% interest in the Bluff Lake Property by carrying out an additional $250,000 CAD exploration program thereon by December 15, 2008. In the event we acquired an interest in the Bluff Lake Property, we further agreed with Candorado that at the request of either party, both parties would negotiate a joint venture agreement for the further exploration and development of the Bluff Lake Property. We could terminate the Option Agreement upon giving thirty (30) days notice to Candorado. Candorado could also terminate the Option Agreement by giving us notice of failure on our part to pay any amount when due or perform any exploration program within the time provided under the Option Agreement and such failure continued for thirty (30) days after such notice.
Due to labor and equipment shortages in the industry in 2007, we were limited to completing phase one of the two phased exploration work program of approximately $200,000 CAD that was planned for the Bluff Lake Property. As a result, pursuant to the terms of the Mineral Claim Purchase Agreement, we obtained an extension of the time period to complete the required $200,000 CAD exploration program to June 30, 2008. This extension of the time period was formalized under an agreement (the “Amending Agreement”) entered into by the Company and Candorado on October 29, 2007.
Based on the results from phase one of the exploration program, a $165,000 CAD work program was planned as phase two of the exploration program. Phase two of the exploration program was commenced in June, 2008, and involved road construction, diamond drilling and in-fill soil sampling. However, due to labor shortages in the industry, we were unable to complete all of phase two of the exploration program within the extended time period and we were granted a further extension of the time period in which to complete the balance of phase two of the exploration program by Candorado to September 30, 2008. This latter extension was set forth in an agreement dated June 29, 2008, further amending the Option Agreement between the Company and Candorado. The majority of phase two of the exploration program had been completed; however, completion of the exploration work was suspended due to a lack of funding.
Despite its best efforts, the Company was unable to raise the necessary funds to complete phase two of its exploration program on the Bluff Lake Property within the extended time period. As a result, pursuant to an agreement dated October 3, 2008, the Company agreed to terminate its Option Agreement (as amended) with Candorado and its right thereunder to acquire various interests in the Bluff Lake Property and Candorado agreed to assume all responsibility and liability for phase two of the Company’s exploration program on the Bluff Lake Property.
On January 18, 2007, Beeston entered into an agreement (the “Kranti Option Agreement”) with Kranti Resources, Inc., (“Kranti”) a start up mining company, whereby we granted Kranti an option to acquire one of the mining claims that comprise the Ruth Lake Property. Kranti could acquire the mining claims by payment to Beeston of $20,000 U.S. at the time of entering into the Option Agreement plus carrying out an exploration program of $175,000 CAD over a period of four years. In the event that Kranti acquired the mineral claim, it would be required, upon it selling any minerals from the mineral claim, to pay a royalty of 2% of “net smelter returns”, as that term is defined in the Kranti Option Agreement, to Candorado (as a prior owner), which can be paid out for $1,000,000 CAD, and a further royalty of 2% of net smelter returns to Beeston, which can be paid out for $2,000,000 CAD. Kranti would also be responsible for maintaining the mineral claim in good standing during the currency of the Kranti Option Agreement. Kranti could terminate the Kranti Option Agreement upon thirty days notice and Beeston, upon notice of default of any obligations by Kranti, could terminate the Kranti Option Agreement if such default continued for thirty days.
Again, due to the labor shortages experienced in the industry in 2007, Kranti was delayed in obtaining the assay results of the soil and rock sampling it carried out under its exploration program on the mining claim optioned from the Company. As a result, at the request of Kranti, we extended the date for the completion of the exploration work required to be performed by Kranti within the first year of the Kranti Option Agreement. The extension was for a reasonable short period of time and was sufficient to allow Kranti to obtain and report on its assay results. Subsequent to December 31, 2008, Kranti requested a further extension of time for completion of the $25,000 exploration work that was required to be performed under the Kranti Option Agreement by January 18, 2009. On January 16, 2009, Beeston entered into an agreement with Kranti extending the time period for the performance of this exploration work until June 30,
2009, in consideration of Kranti granting Beeston control over the allocation of the credits resulting from mineral exploration carried out by Kranti on the mining claim optioned from the Company. Beeston subsequently granted Kranti a number of extensions for the completion of mineral exploration work within the time periods provided under the Kranti Option Agreement due to Kranti’s inability to raise funds. On June 22, 2009, December 30, 2009, and most recently on February 11, 2010, Beeston entered into separate agreements with Kranti extending the date of completion of various expenditures required to be completed by Kranti under the terms of the Kranti Option Agreement in consideration of Kranti agreeing to various increases in the amount of expenditures to be incurred on exploration work under the Kranti Option Agreement totaling $100,000. We anticipated that Kranti would be able to meet these exploration requirements within the extended time periods. However, as of June 30, 2010, Kranti was in default of its obligations for the further exploration and development of the mineral claim under option from Beeston. On July 1, 2010, we delivered a notice to Kranti advising of its default of the work requirements under the Option Agreement and that it had 30 days from the date of receipt of the notice to meet these work requirements or the Option Agreement and the option of the mineral claim granted thereunder would terminate. On August 5, 2010, Kranti remained in default and the Option Agreement was terminated.
On September 24, 2009, the Company entered into an agreement (the “USA Option Agreement”) with USA Uranium Corp. (“USA Uranium”) under which the Company granted USA Uranium an option to acquire an undivided 50% interest in nine mineral claims that are part of the Company’s Ruth Lake Property, which mineral claims total in excess of 4,300 hectares, in consideration of the issuance of 37,000,000 common shares of USA Uranium to the Company. These mineral claims are subject to a two percent net smelter royalty which can be paid out for the sum of $1,000,000(CDN). USA Uranium can earn an undivided 50% interest in these mineral claims by carrying out a $50,000 (CDN) exploration and development program on these mineral claims on or before September 24, 2010, plus an additional $250,000 (CDN) exploration and development program on these mineral claims on or before September 25, 2011. In the event that USA Uranium acquires an interest in these mineral claims, the Company and USA Uranium have further agreed, at the request of either party, to negotiate a joint venture agreement for the further exploration and development of these mineral claims.
As part of the agreement between the Company and USA Uranium, on September 24, 2009, the Company entered into an agreement with Brian Smith, a shareholder of the Company, under which Mr. Smith agreed, inter alia, to subordinate, and upon USA Uranium acquiring an undivided 50% interest in the Claims, to release his right to a first floating charge over the assets of the Company granted under the two convertible debentures previously issued to Mr. Smith by the Company as it relates to the undivided 50% interest in the Claims to be acquired by USA Uranium. In consideration of Mr. Smith agreeing, inter alia, to the subordination and release of his right to a first floating charge as aforesaid, the Company agreed to amend the provisions of the two convertible debentures issued to Mr. Smith by the Company by reducing the share conversion and share purchase warrant prices and increasing the number of share purchase warrants provided thereunder. In the case of the convertible debenture issued for US dollars, the share conversion and share purchase warrant prices were reduced from $0.02(US) to $0.0075(US) and the number of share purchase warrants were increased from 6,333,850 to 16,890,267, and in the case of the convertible debenture issued for CND dollars, the share conversion and share purchase warrant prices were reduce from $0.025(CND) to $0.008(CND) and the number of share purchase warrants were increased from 5,004,000 to 15,637,500.
On September 25, 2009, the Company entered into an agreement (the “Mariposa Option Agreement”) with Mariposa Resources, Ltd (“Mariposa”) under which the Company granted Mariposa an option to acquire an undivided 50% interest in eight mineral claims that are part of
the Company’s Ruth Lake Property, which mineral claims total in excess of 3,900 hectares. Mariposa can earn an undivided 50% interest in these mineral claims by the issuance of 1,000,000 common shares of Mariposa to the Company within six months of the date of signing of the agreement, the completion of a $50,000 (CDN) exploration and development program on these mineral claims on or before September 25, 2010, plus an additional $200,000 (CDN) exploration and development program on these mineral claims on or before September 25, 2011. In the event that Mariposa acquires an interest in these mineral claims, the Company and Mariposa have further agreed, at the request of either party, to negotiate a joint venture agreement for further exploration and development of these mineral claims. These mineral claims are subject to a two percent net smelter royalty, which can be paid out for the sum of $1,000,000 (CDN).
As part of the agreement between the Company and Mariposa, on September 24, 2009, the Company entered into an agreement with Brian Smith, a shareholder of the Company, under which Mr. Smith agreed, inter alia, to subordinate, and upon Mariposa acquiring an undivided 50% interest in the Claims, to release, his right to a first floating charge over the assets of the Company granted under the two convertible debentures previously issued to Mr. Smith by the Company as it relates to the undivided 50% interest in the Claims to be acquired by Mariposa. In consideration of Mr. Smith agreeing, inter alia, to the subordination and release of his right to a first floating charge as aforesaid, the Company agreed to amend the provisions of the two convertible debentures issued to Mr. Smith by the Company by reducing the share conversion and share purchase warrant prices and increasing the number of share purchase warrants provided thereunder. In the case of the convertible debenture issued for US dollars, the share conversion and share purchase warrant prices were reduced from $0.02(US) to $0.0075(US) and the number of share purchase warrants were increased from 6,333,850 to 16,890,267, and in the case of the convertible debenture issued for CND dollars, the share conversion and share purchase warrant prices were reduce from $0.025(CND) to $0.008(CND) and the number of share purchase warrants were increased from 5,004,000 to 15,637,500.
On March 24, 2010, the Company entered into an agreement with Mariposa extending the date for the payment of shares of its common stock under the option agreement with Beeston for an additional three months in consideration of Mariposa increasing its work requirement on the mineral claims it optioned from Beeston. The Company entered into another agreement with Mariposa on June 24, 2010, under which Beeston granted Mariposa a further extension for the payment of shares of its common stock and for the completion of its initial exploration and development as required under the option agreement with Beeston until December 31, 2010, in consideration for an increase in the number of shares payable thereunder. On November 3, 2010, due to the failure of Lithium (“Mariposa”) to maintain the mining claims under option, they were allowed to lapse. Beeston has since been able to reclaim four of the eight mining claims originally under option to Lithium (“Mariposa”). On November 30, 2010 Mariposa merged with its wholly owned subsidiary “Lithium Exploration Group, Inc.” (“Lithium”), which subsidiary was incorporated solely for the change of name. As of December 31, 2010 Lithium (formerly “Mariposa”) was in default of payment of a total of 1,500,000 shares of its common stock and of its obligation to perform $100,000 CND of exploration and development work on the optioned mining claims as part payment of the option exercise price and is indebted to Beeston in the amount of $22,851 (CAD) related to the mining claim maintenance fees and re-claiming fees paid by Beeston on behalf of Lithium (formerly “Mariposa). Lithium (formerly “Mariposa”) has since terminated its option agreement with Beeston, by notice dated February 14, 2011. The Company is currently pursuing Lithium (formerly “Mariposa”) in regard to these outstanding debts, the loss of four mining claims and the ongoing maintenance requirements for the reclaimed mining claims.
On September 24, 2010, USA Uranium was in default of its exploration work requirement under its option agreement with Beeston. Subsequent to the default, the Company entered in discussions with USA Uranium regarding its default as well as its inability to cover the on-going property maintenance costs as required under its option agreement with Beeston and what efforts or other consideration, if any, USA Uranium was willing to undertake or provide as a result thereof. On October 26, 2010 the Company and USA Uranium entered into an agreement pursuant to which the parties agreed to the issue of shares of the common stock of USA Uranium to Beeston in satisfaction and settlement of the default and the outstanding debt. USA Uranium is to issue 26, 956,120 common shares in satisfaction of the exploration work for which it was in default and a further 23,043,880 common shares in settlement of its outstanding debt for the payment of on-going property maintenance payments made on its behalf by Beeston. The parties also agreed to reduce the number of mining claims covered by the option agreement between them from nine claims to four claims in consideration of USA Uranium agreeing to issue 75,000,000 common shares to Beeston. On November 2, 2010, USA Uranium allowed the four claims that remained under option to it from Beeston to lapse. These four mining claims were reclaimed by Beeston at a cost of $1,064 CDN which amount is due and owing to Beeston by USA Uranium.
In Canada, all lands and minerals initially rest in the Federal and Provincial Governments in the name of Her Majesty, and the rights to the lands and minerals have been acquired by private individuals under Crown Grants. Early in the history of Canada the practice of reserving the minerals from the Crown Grants of land became an established practice and eventually this practice became law under legislation. The result is that the Crown is the largest mineral owner in Canada, both as the fee simple owner of Crown lands and through mineral reservations in Crown Grants. Under the Canadian Constitution, minerals located within a province vest in that province. In the case of our interests in mineral properties, that is the Province of British Columbia.
In British Columbia, most of the minerals are owned by the Province. Rights to explore and develop these minerals are obtained as a form of tenure issued by the Province of British Columbia, which is recorded in the Mineral Titles Office as a mineral claim. Mineral claims are defined as a “chattel” under the Mineral Tenure Act of British Columbia and are not an interest in land, but rather, only carry with them the right to enter upon the mineral claim land for the purpose of exploration for minerals and developing any minerals found thereon up to the point of a producing mine.
At such time as the exploration and development carried out upon a mineral claim has progressed to the stage of a mineable mineral deposit, the mineral claim holder can apply to the Miners Titles Office for the grant of a lease of the property comprising the area of the mineral deposit find. Mineral leases can be up to a 30 year term, and are renewable. A mining lease increases the mineral claim holders rights in the land contained in the mineral claim and is considered an interest in the land.
The mineral claims comprising our Ruth Lake Property have been located and recorded pursuant to the Mineral Tenure Act of the Province of British Columbia. As the owner of the mineral claims comprising the Ruth Lake Property, we and our optionees have the right to explore and develop these mineral claims and recover all of the minerals contained within the surface boundaries of these properties and continuing vertically downward.
Under the Mineral Tenure Act, mineral claims can only be located and recorded by residents of Canada. In order to comply with that requirement, we could either have the title to our mineral properties held “in trust” for us by one of our directors or officers residing in British Columbia,
or we could create a wholly owned subsidiary company in British Columbia to be the registered owner of our mineral properties. To avoid the cost of creating and maintaining a wholly owned subsidiary company, we have chosen to register the claims comprising the Ruth Lake Property in the name of our President, who holds them in trust for us. In the event we find that a commercially viable mineral deposit on any of our mineral claims, we will form a wholly owned subsidiary company in British Columbia, and our President will transfer registered title to such wholly owned subsidiary company.
The Ruth Lake Property is located approximately 25 kilometers east of the Town of Lac La Hache or approximately 60 kilometers north-east of the Town of 100 Mile House. The area can be reached via the Forest Grave/Canim Lake Road just to the north of 100 Mile House or by a network of logging roads and tracks which extend east of Lac La Hache. From the Canim Lake Road, 500 Road branches to the north 7 kilometers to the south of Ruth Lake Park and passes through the east centre of the claims and from this road a network of logging roads accesses most of the property.
The Ruth Lake Property is situated within the geological Quesnel Terrane, also known as the Quesnel Trough. This geological area hosts the Mount Polley, Mount Milligan and Lorraine alkalic copper gold deposits to the north of our properties and the Rayfield River, Afton-Ajax and Copper Mountain mineral deposits to the south. The GWR Resources Inc. Lac La Hache property is within approximately 5 kilometers to the west of our Ruth Lake Property.
All of the mineral claims comprising the Ruth Lake Property are unencumbered. There are no native land claims that affect title to our various interests in mineral claims. There is no insurance covering any of our properties and we believe that no insurance is necessary since the mining properties are unimproved and contain no buildings or plant and equipment and our office equipment is of marginal value.
Beeston does not have any investments or interests in any real estate. Beeston also does not invest in real estate mortgages, nor does Beeston invest in securities of, or interests in, persons primarily engaged in real estate activities.
ITEM 3.