ITEM 2.
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
The following is a financial review and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2011 and 2010. This discussion should be read in conjunction with our financial statements and accompanying notes and other detailed information regarding us appearing elsewhere in this report on Form 10-Q and our report filed on Form 10-K, Part II, Item 7 for the year ended December 31, 2010.
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
Certain statements in this report, including, without limitation, matters discussed under this Item 2, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” should be read in conjunction with the financial statements, related notes, and other detailed information included elsewhere in this report on Form 10-Q. We are including this cautionary statement to make applicable and take advantage of the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Statements that are not historical fact are forward-looking statements. Certain of these forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of words such as “believes,” “anticipates,” “expects,” “intends,” “plans,” “projects,” “estimates,” “assumes,” “may,” “should,” “will,” or other similar expressions. Such forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other important factors, which could cause actual results, performance or achievements to differ materially from future results, performance or achievements. These forward-looking statements are based on our current beliefs, intentions and expectations. These statements are not guarantees or indicative of future performance. Important assumptions and other important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, those factors, risks and uncertainties described in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and in our other securities filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). Our future financial condition and results of operations, as well as any forward-looking statements, are subject to change and involve inherent risks and uncertainties. Our estimates of the value of collateral securing our loans may change, or the value of the underlying property could decline subsequent to the date of our evaluation. As a result, such estimates are not guarantees of the future value of the collateral. The forward-looking statements contained in this report are made only as of the date hereof. We undertake no obligation to update or revise information contained herein to reflect events or circumstances after the date hereof or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events.
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
OVERVIEW
At a special meeting of our members held on July 2, 2009, a majority of the members voted to approve the dissolution and winding up of the Fund, in accordance with the Plan of Complete Liquidation and Dissolution (the “Plan”) as set forth in Annex A of the Fund’s proxy statement filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) pursuant to Section 14(a) of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934 on May 11, 2009. The Plan became effective upon its approval by the members on July 2, 2009. As a result, we have commenced an orderly liquidation and we no longer invest in new real estate loans. Our historical operating results should not be viewed as indicative of future results as we implement the Plan. We currently anticipate that the liquidation will be substantially completed by the second half of 2014. However, because of numerous uncertainties, the liquidation may take longer or shorter than expected. Because the liquidation of the Fund was not imminent, as of September 30, 2011, the financial statements are presented assuming the Fund will continue as a going concern. Pursuant to the Plan, we will make liquidating distributions to members on a quarterly basis as funds become available, subject to reasonable reserve established to provide for payment of the Company’s ongoing expenses and contrast liabilities. Our manager has established a reserve to cover our on-going expenses and future obligations. As of September 30, 2011, our unrestricted cash was approximately $0.2 million.
On January 26, 2010, April 8, 2010, September 17, 2010 and May 25, 2011, we made liquidating distributions to all Fund Members, in the aggregate amount of approximately $1.0 million, $0.9 million, $0.3 million and $0.3 million, respectively, in accordance with the Plan. The amounts distributed to each Member of the Fund were calculated based upon the percentage ownership interest of such Member in the Fund. See Note H - Members’ Equity of the Notes to the Financial Statements included in Part I, Item I Financial Statements of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
Under the terms of the Plan adopted by a majority of our members, our members no longer have the right to have their units redeemed by us and we no longer honor any outstanding redemption requests effective as of July 2, 2009.
Prior to the approval of the Plan, our primary business objective was to generate income while preserving principal by investing in loans secured by real estate. The loan underwriting standards utilized by our manager and Vestin Originations were less strict than those used by many institutional real estate lenders. In addition, one of our competitive advantages was our ability to approve loan applications more quickly than many institutional lenders. As a result, in certain cases, we made real estate loans that were riskier than real estate loans made by many institutional lenders such as commercial banks. However, in return, we sought a higher interest rate and our manager took steps to mitigate the lending risks such as imposing a lower loan-to-value ratio. While we may have assumed more risk than many institutional real estate lenders, in return, we sought to generate higher yields from our real estate loans.
Our historical operating results were affected primarily by: (i) the amount of capital we invested in real estate loans, (ii) the level of real estate lending activity in the markets we serviced, (iii) the interest rates we were able to charge on our loans and (iv) the level of non-performing assets, foreclosures and related loan losses that we experienced.
Our operating results have been adversely affected by increases in allowances for loan losses and increases in non-performing assets. This negative trend accelerated sharply during the year ended December 31, 2008 and continues to affect our operations. See Note F - Real Estate Held for Sale and Note D - Investments In Real Estate Loans of the Notes to the Financial Statements included in Part I, Item I Financial Statements of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
We believe that the significant level of our non-performing assets is a direct result of the deterioration of the economy and credit markets. As the economy weakened and credit became more difficult to obtain, many of our borrowers who develop and sell commercial real estate projects have been unable to complete their projects, obtain takeout financing or have been otherwise adversely impacted. These depressed conditions persist in 2011 as the weak economic recovery and the threat of a double dip recession has prevented a recovery of real estate values in our principal markets. Our exposure to the negative developments in the credit markets and general economy has likely been increased by our business strategy, which, until the approval of the Plan, entailed more lenient underwriting standards and expedited loan approval procedures. Moreover, real estate values in the principal markets in which we operate declined dramatically, which in many cases eroded the current value of the security underlying our loans.
We expect that the weakness in the credit markets and the weakness in lending will continue to have an adverse impact upon our markets for the foreseeable future. This may result in a further increase in defaults on our loans and we might be required to record additional reserves based on decreases in market values or we may be required to restructure loans. This increase in loan defaults has materially affected our operating results. For additional information regarding our non-performing loans see “Non-Performing Loans” in Note D - Investments In Real Estate Loans of the Notes to the Financial Statements included in Part I, Item I Financial Statements of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
As of September 30, 2011, our loan-to-value ratio was 89.88%, net of allowances for loan losses, on a weighted average basis, generally using updated appraisals. Additional significant increases in loan defaults accompanied by additional declines in real estate values, as evidenced by updated appraisals generally prepared on an “as-is-basis,” will continue to have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. The current loan-to-value ratio has been affected by declining real estate values, which have eroded the market value of our collateral.
SUMMARY OF FINANCIAL RESULTS
Comparison of Operating Results for the three months ended September 30, 2011, to the three months ended September 30, 2010.
Total Revenues: For the three months ended September 30, 2011, total revenues were $8,000 compared to $14,000 during the three months ended September 30, 2010, a decrease of $6,000 or 43%. This decrease in interest income is mainly due to the decrease in our portfolio of performing real estate loans, which declined from five loans totaling approximately $1.5 million as of September 30, 2010, to three loans totaling approximately $1.0 million as of September 30, 2011.
Total Operating Expenses: For the three months ended September 30, 2011, total operating expenses were approximately $0.3 million compared to approximately $75,000 during the three months ended September 30, 2010, an increase of approximately $0.2 million or 245%. Expenses were primarily affected by an increase in provision for loan losses of approximately $0.2 million, which were offset by a decrease in professional fees of $32,000. The professional fees have decreased due to a decrease in pending litigation for the three months ended September 30, 2011 compared to the same period in 2010. For additional information see Note L - Legal Matters Involving the Manager and Note M - Legal Matters Involving the Company in the notes to the financial statement under Part I, Item I Financial Statements of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, for information regarding our legal proceedings, which are incorporated herein by reference.
Total Loss from Real Estate Held for Sale: For the three months ended September 30, 2011 and 2010, the losses from real estate held for sale were comparable. For additional information see Note F-Real Estate Held For Sale of the Notes to the Financial Statements included in Part I, Item I Financial Statements of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
Comparison of Operating Results for the nine months ended September 30, 2011, to the nine months ended September 30, 2010.
Total Revenues: For the nine months ended September 30, 2011, total revenues were $19,000 compared to approximately $0.1 million during the nine months ended September 30, 2010, a decrease of $79,000 or 81%. This decrease in interest income is primarily due to the decrease in our portfolio of performing real estate loans, which declined from five loans totaling approximately $1.5 million as of September 30, 2010, to three loans totaling approximately $1.0 million as of September 30, 2011. Additionally, during the nine months ended September 30, 2010, we recognized approximately $24,000 in other income due to a receipt of a loan payment on a loan that was the subject of a 100% reserve. No similar transaction occurred during the nine months ended September 30, 2011.
Total Operating Expenses: For the nine months ended September 30, 2011, total operating expenses were approximately $0.4 million compared to approximately $0.3 million during the nine months ended September 30, 2010, an increase of approximately $0.1 million or 39%. Expenses were primarily affected by an increase in provision for loan losses of approximately $0.2 million, which were offset by a decrease in professional fees of $47,000. The professional fees have decreased due to a decrease in pending litigation for the nine months ended September 30, 2011 compared to the same period in 2010. For additional information see Note L - Legal Matters Involving the Manager and Note M - Legal Matters Involving the Company in the notes to the financial statement under Part I, Item I Financial Statements of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, for information regarding our legal proceedings, which are incorporated herein by reference.
Total Loss from Real Estate Held for Sale: For the nine months ended September 30, 2011, total losses from REO were approximately $0.1 million compared to approximately $0.2 during the nine months ended September 30, 2010, a decrease of approximately $0.1 million or 50%. The decrease is mainly due to a decrease in write downs on real estate held for sale during the nine months ended September 30, 2011, compared to write downs on real estate held for sale during the nine months ended September 30, 2010. For additional information see Note F-Real Estate Held For Sale of the Notes to the Financial Statements included in Part I, Item I Financial Statements of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
Liquidating Distributions to Members in accordance to the Plan: On January 26, 2010, April 8, 2010, September 17, 2010 and May 25, 2011, we made liquidating distributions to all Fund Members, in the aggregate amount of approximately $1.0 million, $0.9 million, $0.3 million and $0.3 million, respectively, in accordance with the Plan. The amounts distributed to each Member of the Fund were calculated based upon the percentage ownership interest of such Member in the Fund.
Stated Unit Value Adjustment: In accordance with Section 7.8 of our Operating Agreement, our manager reviewed the value of our assets during the three months ended September 30, 2011. Based on this review, the value of members’ capital accounts was adjusted from $1.37 per unit to $1.21 per unit, as of September 30, 2011. The periodic review of the estimated net unit value includes an analysis of unrealized gains that our manager reasonably believes exist at the time of the review, but that cannot be added to net asset value under GAAP.
Redemptions: At a special meeting of our members held on July 2, 2009, a majority of the members voted to approve the dissolution and winding up of the Fund, in accordance with the Plan as set forth in Annex A of the Fund’s proxy statement filed with the SEC pursuant to Section 14(a) of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934 on May 11, 2009. The Plan became effective upon its approval by the members on July 2, 2009. Our members no longer have the right to have their units redeemed by us and we no longer honor any outstanding redemption requests effective as of July 2, 2009. As of July 2, 2009, the total redemptions made from inception were approximately $10.4 million. For additional information regarding members redemptions, see Note H - Members’ Equity of the Notes to the Financial Statements included in Part I, Item I Financial Statements of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
CAPITAL AND LIQUIDITY
Liquidity is a measure of a company’s ability to meet potential cash requirements, including ongoing commitments to fund lending activities and general operating purposes. As a result of the decision to liquidate the Company, we no longer invest in new loans. Hence, subject to retaining sufficient funds to meet our obligations and conduct wind down operations, all available funds will be paid out to our members. We do not anticipate the need for hiring any employees, acquiring fixed assets such as office equipment or furniture, or incurring material office expenses during the next twelve months because our manager will manage our affairs.
During the nine months ended September 30, 2011, net cash flows provided by operating activities totaled $44,000. The receipt of funds from an outstanding Accounts Receivable balance affected operating cash flows. There were no cash flows related to investing activities, and net cash flows used by financing activities totaled approximately $0.3 million during the nine months ended September 30, 2011.
At September 30, 2011, we had approximately $0.2 million in unrestricted cash, $0.1 million in marketable securities - related party and approximately $3.5 million in total assets. We believe we have sufficient working capital to meet our operating needs during the next 12 months.
Investments in Real Estate Loans Secured by Real Estate Portfolio
As of September 30, 2011 and December 31, 2010, we had investments in five real estate loans with a balance of approximately $2.7 million. In accordance with the Plan, we will no longer invest in new loans.
For additional information on our investments in real estate loans, refer to Note D - Investments In Real Estate Loans and Note F - Real Estate Held for Sale of the Notes to the Financial Statements included in Part I, Item 1 Financial Statements of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
Asset Quality and Loan Reserves
As a commercial real estate lender who was willing to invest in riskier loans, rates of delinquencies, foreclosures and losses on our loans could be higher than those generally experienced in the commercial mortgage lending industry during periods of economic slowdown and recession. The recent recession adversely affected the general economy and the availability of funds for commercial real estate developers. We believe this lack of available funds led to an increase in defaults on our loans. Furthermore, problems experienced in the U.S. credit markets from the summer of 2007 through present have reduced the availability of credit for many prospective borrowers. These problems persist in the markets we are serving, making it more difficult for our borrowers to obtain the anticipated re-financing necessary in many cases to pay back our loans. Thus, an extended period of illiquidity in the credit markets has resulted in a material increase in the number of our loans that are not paid back on time, and we have had to work with some of our borrowers to either modify, restructure and/or extend their loans in order to keep or restore the loans to performing status.
OFF-BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS
As of September 30, 2011, we do not have any interests in off-balance sheet special purpose entities nor do we have any interests in non-exchange traded commodity contracts.
CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS
The following summarizes our contractual obligations at September 30, 2011:
See Note I - Notes Payable of the Notes to the Financial Statements included in Part I, Item I Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS
Prior to July 2, 2009, we may have acquired or sold investments in real estate loans from/to our manager or other related parties. Pursuant to the terms of our Operating Agreement, such acquisitions and sales were made without any mark up or mark down. No gain or loss was recorded on these transactions, as it was not our intent to make a profit on the purchase or sale of such investments. The purpose was generally to diversify our portfolio by syndicating loans, thereby providing us with additional capital to make additional loans. From time to time, we may continue to sell performing investments in real estate loans to our manager or other related parties, without any mark up or mark down. No gain or loss will be recorded on these transactions. For further information regarding related party transactions, refer to Note G - Related Party Transactions of the Notes to the Financial Statements included in Part I, Item I Financial Statements of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES
Revenue Recognition
Interest income on loans is accrued by the effective interest method. We do not accrue interest income from loans once they are determined to be non-performing. A loan is considered non-performing when, based on current information and events, it is probable that we will be unable to collect all amounts due according to the contractual terms of the loan agreement or when the payment of interest is 90 days past due.
The following table presents a sensitivity analysis, averaging the balance of our loan portfolio at the end of the last six quarters, to show the impact on our financial condition at September 30, 2011, from fluctuations in weighted average interest rate charged on loans as a percentage of the loan portfolio:
The purpose of this analysis is to provide an indication of the impact that the weighted average interest rate fluctuations would have on our financial results. It is not intended to imply our expectation of future revenues or to estimate earnings. We believe that the assumptions used above are appropriate to illustrate the possible material impact on the financial statements.
Allowance for Loan Losses
We maintain an allowance for loan losses on our investments in real estate loans for estimated credit impairment in our investment in real estate loans portfolio. Our manager’s estimate of losses is based on a number of factors including the types and dollar amounts of loans in the portfolio, adverse situations that may affect the borrower’s ability to repay, prevailing economic conditions and the underlying collateral securing the loan. Additions to the allowance are provided through a charge to earnings and are based on an assessment of certain factors, which may indicate estimated losses on the loans. Actual losses on loans are recorded as a charge-off or a reduction to the allowance for loan losses. Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously charged off are added back to the allowance or included as income.
The following table presents a sensitivity analysis to show the impact on our financial condition at September 30, 2011, from increases and decreases to our allowance for loan losses as a percentage of the loan portfolio:
Estimating allowances for loan losses requires significant judgment about the underlying collateral, including liquidation value, condition of the collateral, competency and cooperation of the related borrower and specific legal issues that affect loan collections or taking possession of the property. As a commercial real estate lender, which had invested in loans to borrowers who may not meet the credit standards of other financial institutional lenders, the default rate on our loans could be higher than those generally experienced in the mortgage lending industry. We, our manager, and Vestin Originations generally approved loans more quickly than other real estate lenders and, due to our expedited underwriting process, there is a risk that the credit inquiries we performed did not reveal all material facts pertaining to a borrower and the security.
We may discover additional facts and circumstances as we continue our efforts in the collection and foreclosure processes. This additional information often causes management to reassess its estimates. In recent years, we have revised estimates of our allowance for loan losses. Circumstances that may cause significant changes in our estimated allowance include, but are not limited to:
·
Declines in real estate market conditions that can cause a decrease in expected market value;
·
Discovery of undisclosed liens for community improvement bonds, easements and delinquent property taxes;
·
Lack of progress on real estate developments after we advance funds. We customarily utilize disbursement agents to monitor the progress of real estate developments and approve loan advances. After further inspection of the related property, progress on construction occasionally does not substantiate an increase in value to support the related loan advances;
·
Unanticipated legal or business issues that may arise subsequent to loan origination or upon the sale of foreclosed upon property; and
·
Appraisals, which are only opinions of value at the time of the appraisal, may not accurately reflect the value of the property.
RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS
In May 2011, FASB issued ASU 2011-04 “Fair Value Measurement (Topic 820): Amendments to Achieve Common Fair Value Measurement and Disclosure Requirements in U.S. GAAP and IFRSs.” The amendments in this update result in common fair value measurement and disclosure requirements in U.S. GAAP and IFRSs. Consequently, the amendments change the wording used to describe many of the requirements in U.S. GAAP for measuring fair value and for disclosing information about fair value measurements. For many of the requirements, the Board does not intend for the amendments in this update to result in a change in the application of the requirements in Topic 820. Some of the amendments clarify the Board’s intent about the application of existing fair value measurement requirements. Other amendments change a particular principle or requirement for measuring fair value or for disclosing information about fair value measurements. For public entities, the new guideline is effective for interim and annual periods beginning after December 15, 2011 and should be applied prospectively. The Company does not expect that the guidance effective in future periods will have a material impact on its consolidated financial statements.
Presentation of Comprehensive Income: In June 2011, the FASB issued ASU 2011-05, Comprehensive Income (Topic 220)-Presentation of Comprehensive Income, which requires an entity to present the total of comprehensive income, the components of net income, and the components of other comprehensive income either in a single continuous statement of comprehensive income or in two separate but consecutive statements. ASU 2011-05 eliminates the option to present the components of other comprehensive income as part of the statement of equity. The items that must be reported in other comprehensive income or when an item of other comprehensive income must be reclassified to net income were not changed. ASU 2011-05 is effective for our fiscal year beginning January 1, 2012 and must be applied retrospectively. Other than the change in presentation, we have determined these changes will not have an impact on the Consolidated Financial Statements.
ITEM 4.