Item 2.
Properties
Summary of Oil and Gas Properties and Projects
Permian Basin Region
Our Permian Basin operations include assets in Texas and New Mexico. As of December 31, 2009, the Permian Basin region contributed 123.3 MMBOE (91% oil) of estimated proved reserves to our portfolio of operations, which represented 45% of our total estimated proved reserves and contributed 11.7 MBOE/d of average daily production in December 2009.
North Ward Estes Field. The North Ward Estes field includes six base leases with 100% working interest in approximately 58,000 gross and net acres in Ward and Winkler Counties, Texas. The Yates Formation at 2,600 feet is the primary producing zone with additional production from other zones including the Queen at 3,000 feet. In the North Ward Estes field, the estimated proved reserves as of December 31, 2009 were 30% PDP, 23% PDNP and 47% PUD.
The North Ward Estes field is responding positively to our water and CO2 floods, which we initiated in May 2007. As of December 31, 2009, we were injecting 204 MMcf/d of CO2 in this field. Production from the field has increased 8% from 6.6 MBOE/d in December 2008 to 7.1 MBOE/d in December 2009. In this field, we are developing new and reactivated wells for water and CO2 injection and production purposes.
Rocky Mountain Region
Our Rocky Mountain operations include assets in the states of North Dakota, Montana, Colorado, Utah, Wyoming and California. As of December 31, 2009, our estimated proved reserves in the Rocky Mountain region were 96.8 MMBOE (73% oil), which represented 35% of our total estimated proved reserves and contributed 30.3 MBOE/d of average daily production in December 2009.
Sanish Field. Our Sanish area in Mountrail County, North Dakota encompasses approximately 118,000 gross (69,600 net) acres. December 2009 net production in the Sanish field averaged 12.6 MBOE/d, a 68% increase from 7.5 MBOE/d in December 2008. As of February 15, 2010, we have participated in 123 wells (88 operated) in the Sanish field, of which 103 are producing, ten are in the process of completion and ten are being drilled. Of these operated wells, 38 were completed in 2009. In order to process the produced gas stream from the Sanish wells, we constructed and brought on-line the Robinson Lake Gas Plant. The first phase of this plant began processing gas in May 2008, and in December 2008 we completed the construction of the second phase. We completed the installation of the 17-mile oil line connecting the Sanish field to the Enbridge pipeline in Stanley, North Dakota in late December 2009. The pipeline is currently moving approximately 10,000 Bbls of oil per day. We expect to have all of our net operated oil production in the pipeline upon completion of Enbridge’s tank facility at Stanley, which is expected to occur in June 2010.
Parshall Field. Immediately east of the Sanish field is the Parshall field, where we own interests in approximately 74,900 gross (18,400 net) acres. Our net production from the Parshall field averaged 6.4 MBOE/d in December 2009, a 4% decrease from 6.7 MBOE/d in December 2008. As of February 15, 2010, we have participated in 114 Bakken wells in the Parshall field, the majority of which are operated by EOG Resources, Inc., of which 111 are producing and three are in the process of completion. Of these wells, 28 were completed in 2009.
Lewis & Clark Prospect. As of December 31, 2009, we have assembled approximately 213,500 gross (127,800 net) acres in our Lewis & Clark prospect along the Bakken Shale pinch-out in the southern Williston Basin. Subsequent to year-end we assembled additional acreage, primarily in Stark County, North Dakota, which brings our total acreage position in the Lewis & Clark area to 320,000 gross (202,400 net) acres. In this area, the Upper Bakken shale is thermally mature, moderately over-pressured, and we believe that it has charged reservoir zones within the immediately underlying Three Forks formation.
Flat Rock Field. We acquired the Flat Rock Field in May 2008 and took over operations June 1, 2008. In the Flat Rock field area in Uintah County, Utah, we have an acreage position consisting of approximately 22,000 gross (11,500 net) acres. We currently have one active drilling rig operating in the field.
Sulphur Creek Field. In the Sulphur Creek field in Rio Blanco County, Colorado in the Piceance Basin, we own approximately 10,200 gross (4,500 net) acres in the Sulphur Creek field area.
Mid-Continent Region
Our Mid-Continent operations include assets in Oklahoma, Arkansas and Kansas. As of December 31, 2009, the Mid-Continent region contributed 39.1 MMBOE (94% oil) of proved reserves to our portfolio of operations, which represented 14% of our total estimated proved reserves and contributed 9.3 MBOE/d of average daily production in December 2009. The majority of the proved value within our Mid-Continent operations is related to properties in the Postle field.
Postle Field. The Postle field, located in Texas County, Oklahoma, includes five producing units and one producing lease covering a total of approximately 25,600 gross (24,200 net) acres. Four of the units are currently active CO2 enhanced recovery projects. Our expansion of the CO2 flood at the Postle field continues to generate positive results. As of December 31, 2009, we were injecting 140 MMcf/d of CO2 in this field. Production from the field has increased 30% from a net 7.1 MBOE/d in December 2008 to a net 9.2 MBOE/d in December 2009. Operations are underway to expand CO2 injection into the northern part of the fourth unit, HMU, and to optimize flood patterns in the existing CO2 floods. These expansion projects include the restoration of shut-in wells and the drilling of new producing and injection wells. In the Postle field, the estimated proved reserves as of December 31, 2009 were 78% PDP, 4% PDNP and 18% PUD.
We are the sole owner of the Dry Trails Gas Plant located in the Postle field. This gas processing plant utilizes a membrane technology to separate CO2 gas from the produced wellhead mixture of hydrocarbon and CO2 gas so that the CO2 gas can be re-injected into the producing formation.
In addition to the producing assets and processing plant, we have a 60% interest in the 120-mile TransPetco operated CO2 transportation pipeline, thereby assuring the delivery of CO2 to the Postle field at a fair tariff. A long-term CO2 purchase agreement was executed in 2005 to provide the necessary CO2 for the expansion planned in the field.
Gulf Coast Region
Our Gulf Coast operations include assets located in Texas, Louisiana and Mississippi. As of December 31, 2009, the Gulf Coast region contributed 8.4 MMBOE (27% oil) of proved reserves to our portfolio of operations, which represented 3% of our total estimated proved reserves and contributed 3.0 MBOE/d of average daily production in December 2009.
Edwards Trend. We own acreage in the Nordheim, Word North, Yoakum, Kawitt, Sweet Home, and Three Rivers fields along the Edwards Trend in Karnes, Dewitt, Live Oak, and Lavaca Counties, Texas. In 2007, we farmed out the Kawitt and Nordheim lease position (12,000 net acres) to another operator who is developing the Edwards Trend with horizontal wellbores. Under the terms of this agreement, we were carried on all drilling and completion costs on four Edwards Trend wells, and Whiting maintained a 16.67% working interest in the completed wells. Going forward, we had the option to participate upfront for a 25% working interest in additional Edwards wells to be drilled or elect to take the 25% working interest after payout has occurred. To date, we have elected to take a 25% after payout working interest in seven wells drilled under this farmout. We anticipate three more wells to be proposed in 2010 which will fully develop the acreage under the agreement. This agreement thereby allowed us to maintain a working interest in an expiring acreage position, which is now held by production, and furthermore our acreage position in this area has upside potential in the Eagle Ford shale that lies just above the Edwards Trend.
Michigan Region
As of December 31, 2009, our estimated proved reserves in the Michigan region were 7.4 MMBOE (32% oil), and our December 2009 daily production averaged 2.3 MBOE/d. Production in Michigan can be divided into two groups. The majority of the reserves are in non-operated Antrim Shale wells located in the northern part of the state. The remainder of the Michigan reserves are typified by more conventional oil and gas production located in the central and southern parts of the state. We also operate the West Branch and Reno gas processing plants. The West Branch Plant gathers production from the Clayton unit, West Branch field and other smaller fields.
Marion 3-D Project. The Marion Prospect, located in Missauke, Clare and Oceola Counties, Michigan, covers approximately 16,000 gross (14,700 net) acres. Our analysis of seismic data has identified two drillable prospects, and we are currently formulating our drilling plans for this area.
Reserves
As of December 31, 2009, all of our oil and gas reserves are attributable to properties within the United States. A summary of our oil and gas reserves as of December 31, 2009 based on average fiscal-year prices (calculated as the unweighted arithmetic average of the first-day-of-the-month price for each month within the 12-month period ended December 31, 2009) is as follows:
Proved reserves. Estimates of proved developed and undeveloped reserves are inherently imprecise and are continually subject to revision based on production history, results of additional exploration and development, price changes and other factors.
In 2009, total extensions and discoveries of 32.1 MMBOE were primarily attributable to successful drilling in the Sanish and Parshall fields and related proved undeveloped well locations added during the year, which in turn extended the proved acreage in those areas.
In 2009, revisions to previous estimates increased proved developed and undeveloped reserves by a net amount of 23.1 MMBOE. Included in these revisions were (i) 17.3 MMBOE of net upward adjustments caused by higher crude oil prices incorporated into our reserve estimates at December 31, 2009 as compared to December 31, 2008 that were partially offset by lower natural gas prices as of December 31, 2009, and (ii) 5.8 MMBOE of net upward adjustments attributable to reservoir analysis and well performance. The liquids component of the 5.8 MMBOE revision consisted of a 14.8 MMBOE increase that was primarily related to North Ward Estes, where additional field areas are now planned for CO2 injection and where the total amount of CO2 planned for injection into previously identified flood pattern areas has been increased. The gas component of the 5.8 MMBOE revision consisted of a 9.0 MMBOE decrease that was primarily related to the Sulphur Creek field, where reserve assignments for proved developed producing as well as proved undeveloped well locations were adjusted downward to reflect the current performance of producing wells.
Proved undeveloped reserves. From December 31, 2008 to December 31, 2009, our proved undeveloped reserves (“PUDs”) increased 26% or 20.4 MMBOE. This increase in proved undeveloped reserves was primarily attributable to additional PUDs estimated at the Sanish and Parshall fields as well as the North Ward Estes field. The Sanish and Parshall field PUD extensions resulted from our significant drilling activity in those areas during 2009 and the related proved undeveloped well locations therefore added. The additional PUDs estimated at North Ward Estes in 2009 related to new field areas now planned for CO2 injection and to previously identified flood pattern areas where the total CO2 planned for injection has now been increased. These PUD increases were partially offset by (i) 3.1 MMBOE in PUDs that were removed from the proved undeveloped reserve category pursuant to the new SEC rules on oil and gas reserve estimation, which in most cases disallow proved undeveloped reserves to remain in the PUD category for a period of more than 5 years, and (ii) 5.5 MMBOE of PUDs that were converted into proved developed reserves due to 39 proved undeveloped well locations that were drilled and placed on production during 2009. We incurred $69.9 million in capital expenditures, or $12.71 per BOE, to drill and bring on-line these 39 PUD locations.
The quantities of PUDs that remain undeveloped after having been disclosed as proved undeveloped reserves for a period of five years or more are insignificant as of December 31, 2009. However, we do have material quantities of proved undeveloped reserves at our North Ward Estes field that will remain in the PUD category for periods extending beyond five years. Due to the large areal extent of the field, the CO2 enhanced recovery project will progress through the field in a sequential manner as earlier injection areas are completed and new injection areas are initiated. This staged development is necessary to allow efficient use of purchased and recycled CO2 as well as to enable facilities to be properly sized for the most economical operation of the field.
Probable reserves. Estimates of probable developed and undeveloped reserves are inherently imprecise. When producing an estimate of the amount of oil and gas that is recoverable from a particular reservoir, an estimated quantity of probable reserves is an estimate that is as likely as not to be achieved. Estimates of probable reserves are also continually subject to revision based on production history, results of additional exploration and development, price changes and other factors.
We use deterministic methods to estimate probable reserve quantities, and when deterministic methods are used, it is as likely as not that actual remaining quantities recovered will exceed the sum of estimated proved plus probable reserves. Probable reserves may be assigned to areas of a reservoir adjacent to proved reserves where data control or interpretations of available data are less certain, even if the interpreted reservoir continuity of structure or productivity does not meet the reasonable certainty criterion. Probable reserves may be assigned to areas that are structurally higher than the proved area if these areas are in communication with the proved reservoir. Probable reserves estimates also include potential incremental quantities associated with a greater percentage recovery of the hydrocarbons in place than assumed for proved reserves.
Reductions in probable reserves during 2009 were primarily attributable to probable reserves in the Sanish and Parshall fields that were converted into proved reserves and therefore transferred out of the probable reserve category into proved. In addition, the participation agreement that we entered into in 2009 to farmout a portion of our interest in 26 units in the western part of our Sanish field also decreased our probable reserve quantities during 2009.
Possible reserves. Estimates of possible developed and undeveloped reserves are also inherently imprecise. When producing an estimate of the amount of oil and gas that is recoverable from a particular reservoir, an estimated quantity of possible reserves is an estimate that might be achieved, but only under more favorable circumstances than are likely. Estimates of possible reserves are also continually subject to revision based on production history, results of additional exploration and development, price changes and other factors.
We use deterministic methods to estimate possible reserve quantities, and when deterministic methods are used to estimate possible reserve quantities, the total quantities ultimately recovered from a project have a low probability of exceeding proved plus probable plus possible reserves. Possible reserves may be assigned to areas of a reservoir adjacent to probable reserves where data control and interpretations of available data are progressively less certain. Frequently, this will be in areas where geoscience and engineering data are unable to define clearly the area and vertical limits of commercial production from the reservoir by a defined project. Possible reserves also include incremental quantities associated with a greater percentage recovery of the hydrocarbons in place than the recovery quantities assumed for probable reserves.
Possible reserves may be assigned where geoscience and engineering data identify directly adjacent portions of a reservoir within the same accumulation that may be separated from proved areas by faults with displacement less than formation thickness or other geological discontinuities and that have not been penetrated by a wellbore, and we believe that such adjacent portions are in communication with the known (proved) reservoir. Possible reserves may be assigned to areas that are structurally higher or lower than the proved area if these areas are in communication with the proved reservoir.
Possible reserves increased during 2009 primarily due to (i) North Ward Estes where additional field areas are now planned for CO2 injection and where the total amount of CO2 planned for injection into previously identified flood pattern areas has been increased, and (ii) the Sanish and Parhsall fields where additional possible reserves were estimated for continued development of the Bakken formation and the anticipated development of the Three Forks formations.
Preparation of reserves estimates.
The Company maintains adequate and effective internal controls over the reserve estimation process as well as the underlying data upon which reserve estimates are based. The primary inputs to the reserve estimation process are comprised of technical information, financial data, ownership interests and production data. All field and reservoir technical information, which is updated annually, is assessed for validity when the reservoir engineers hold technical meetings with geoscientists, operations and land personnel to discuss field performance and to validate future development plans. Current revenue and expense information is obtained from the Company’s accounting records, which are subject to external quarterly reviews, annual audits and their own set of internal controls over financial reporting. Internal controls over financial reporting are assessed for effectiveness annually using the criteria set forth in Internal Control - Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. All current financial data such as commodity prices, lease operating expenses, production taxes and field commodity price differentials are updated in the reserve database and then analyzed to ensure that they have been entered accurately and that all updates are complete. The Company’s current ownership in mineral interests and well production data are also subject to the aforementioned internal controls over financial reporting, and they are incorporated in the reserve database as well and verified to ensure their accuracy and completeness. Once the reserve database has been entirely updated with current information, and all relevant technical support material has been assembled, Whiting’s independent engineering firm Cawley, Gillespie & Associates, Inc. (“CG&A”) meets with Whiting’s technical personnel in the Company’s Denver and Midland offices to review field performance and future development plans in order to further verify their validity. Following these reviews the reserve database is furnished to CG&A so that they can prepare their independent reserve estimates and final report. Access to the Company’s reserve database is restricted to specific members of the reservoir engineering department.
CG&A is a Texas Registered Engineering Firm. Our primary contact at CG&A is Mr. Robert Ravnaas, Executive Vice President. Mr. Ravnaas is a State of Texas Licensed Professional Engineer. See Exhibit 99.2 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the Report of Cawley, Gillespie & Associates, Inc. and further information regarding the professional qualifications of Mr. Ravnaas.
Our Vice President of Reservoir Engineering/ Acquisitions is responsible for overseeing the preparation of the reserves estimates. He has over 36 years of experience, the majority of which has involved reservoir engineering and reserve estimation, holds a Bachelor’s Degree in Petroleum Engineering from the University of Wyoming, holds an MBA from the University of Denver and is a registered Professional Engineer. He has also served on the national Board of Directors of the Society of Petroleum Evaluation Engineers.
Acreage
The following table summarizes gross and net developed and undeveloped acreage by state at December 31, 2009. Net acreage is our percentage ownership of gross acreage. Acreage in which our interest is limited to royalty and overriding royalty interests is excluded.
*
Other includes Alabama, Arkansas, Kansas, Mississippi and New Mexico.
**
Out of a total of approximately 773,300 gross (372,200 net) undeveloped acres as of December 31, 2009, the portion of our net undeveloped acres that is subject to expiration over the next three years, if not successfully developed or renewed, is approximately 14% in 2010, 18% in 2011, and 8% in 2012.
Production History
The following table presents historical information about our produced oil and gas volumes:
(1)
The North Ward Estes field was our only field that contained 15% or more of our total proved reserve volumes as of December 31, 2009.
(2)
Production costs reported above exclude from lease operating expenses ad valorem taxes of $12.2 million ($0.61 per BOE), $16.8 million ($0.96 per BOE), and $16.5 million ($1.12 per BOE) for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.
Productive Wells
The following table summarizes gross and net productive oil and natural gas wells by region at December 31, 2009. A net well is our percentage ownership of a gross well. Wells in which our interest is limited to royalty and overriding royalty interests are excluded.
(1)
wells are multiple completions. These 133 wells contain a total of 326 completions. One or more completions in the same bore hole are counted as one well.
We have an interest in or operate 16 enhanced oil recovery projects, which include both secondary (waterflood) and tertiary (CO2 injection) recovery efforts, and aggregate production from such enhanced oil recovery fields averaged 17.3 MBOE/d during 2009 or 31.2% of our 2009 daily production. For these areas, we need to use enhanced recovery techniques in order to maintain oil and gas production from these fields.
Drilling Activity
We are engaged in numerous drilling activities on properties presently owned and intend to drill or develop other properties acquired in the future. As of December 31, 2009, we were drilling five gross (2.7 net) wells in the Sanish field and one gross and net well in the Flat Rock field. All of these wells were intended to be productive wells rather than service wells.
The following table sets forth our drilling activity for the last three years. A dry well is an exploratory, development or extension well that proves to be incapable of producing either oil or gas in sufficient quantities to justify completion as an oil or gas well. A productive well is an exploratory, development or extension well that is not a dry well. The information should not be considered indicative of future performance, nor should it be assumed that there is necessarily any correlation between the number of productive wells drilled and quantities of reserves found.
As of December 31, 2009, six operated drilling rigs and 32 operated workover rigs were active on our properties. We were also participating in the drilling of three non-operated wells, two of which are located in the Parshall field and one in the Gulf Coast area. The breakdown of our operated rigs is as follows:
Delivery Commitments
Our production sales agreements contain customary terms and conditions for the oil and natural gas industry, generally provide for sales based on prevailing market prices in the area, and generally have terms of one year or less. We have also entered into physical delivery contracts which require us to deliver fixed volumes of natural gas. As of December 31, 2009, we had delivery commitments of 9.8 Bcf (or 34% of total 2009 natural gas production), 9.1 Bcf (31%) and 5.3 Bcf (18%) for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2011 and 2012, respectively. These contracts were related to production at our Boies Ranch prospect in Rio Blanco County, Colorado, at our Antrim Shale wells in Michigan and at our Flat Rock field in Uintah County, Utah. We believe our production and reserves are adequate to meet these delivery commitments. See “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure about Market Risk” in Item 7A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for more information about these contracts.
Item 3.