Item 2.
Properties
Summary of Oil and Gas Properties and Projects
Rocky Mountain Region
Our Rocky Mountain operations include assets in the states of North Dakota, Montana, Colorado, Utah, Wyoming and California. As of December 31, 2011, our estimated proved reserves in the Rocky Mountain region were 159.2 MMBOE (83% oil), which represented 46% of our total estimated proved reserves and contributed 47.4 MBOE/d of average daily production in December 2011.
Sanish Field. Our Sanish area in Mountrail County, North Dakota encompasses approximately 108,800 gross (66,500 net) acres. Net production in the Sanish field averaged 22.9 MBOE/d for the fourth quarter of 2011, but ended the quarter averaging 25.7 MBOE/d in December 2011. This compares to production of 24.1 MBOE/d from the Sanish field for the third quarter of 2011. During the fourth quarter of 2011, we completed 19 operated wells, bringing the total number of producing wells in the field to 218. As of February 1, 2012, we had 33 service units active in the Williston Basin. These service units have reduced the number of shut-in wells in Sanish field from 66 as of October 22, 2011 to 31 as of February 1, 2012. We expect to continue to reduce the number of shut-in wells awaiting service work in this field during the first quarter of 2012.
In order to process the produced gas stream from the Sanish wells, we constructed and brought on-line the Robinson Lake gas plant. In December 2010, we added additional equipment which brought the plant’s processing capacity to 90 MMcf/d. However, inlet compression currently only provides for 60 MMcf/d throughput. In April 2011, we added fractionation equipment which allows us to produce propane and butane for sale in the local market. We intend to further expand the plant in order to increase our inlet capability to 90 MMcf/d in the third quarter of 2012.
Outside of our Sanish field we have assembled lease positions on eight separate prospects in the Williston Basin. Seven of these prospects target the Bakken and Three Forks formations, and one prospect, Big Island, targets the Red River formation. During 2011, our efforts were focused on the drilling of delineation wells on these prospects. Our focus in 2012 will be on the development of the Lewis & Clark/Pronghorn prospects.
Lewis & Clark/Pronghorn. Our Lewis & Clark/Pronghorn prospects are located primarily in the Stark and Billings counties of North Dakota and run along the Bakken shale pinch-out in the southern Williston Basin. In this area, the Upper Bakken shale is thermally mature, moderately over-pressured, and we believe that it has charged reservoir zones within the immediately underlying Pronghorn Sand and Three Forks formations. Net production in the Lewis & Clark/Pronghorn prospects averaged 5.9 MBOE/d in the fourth quarter of 2011, representing a 48% increase from 4.0 MBOE/d in the third quarter of 2011. We currently have six drilling rigs operating in the Pronghorn prospect and two drilling rigs operating in the Lewis & Clark prospect. In December 2011, we completed and commissioned the gas processing plant located south of Belfield, North Dakota, which will have a processing capacity of 30 MMcf/d and which will primarily process production from the Pronghorn area. Currently, there is inlet compression in place to process 24 MMcf/d. In January 2012, we completed construction on an oil terminal and a seven-mile oil transmission line to allow for the delivery of oil production from the Pronghorn into the Bridger Four Bears oil transmission system. The completion of this terminal will reduce our transportation costs per barrel and make the development of this prospect more economical.
We have begun utilizing pad drilling at our Sanish field and our Lewis & Clark/Pronghorn prospects, drilling two or three wells from each pad.
Hidden Bench/Tarpon. Our Hidden Bench and Tarpon prospects in McKenzie County, North Dakota target the Bakken and Three Forks formations and encompass approximately 59,900 gross (29,400 net) acres and 8,100 gross (6,300 net) acres, respectively, as of December 31, 2011. Net production at Hidden Bench averaged 1.8 MBOE/d in the fourth quarter of 2011, which represents more than a 100% increase from 0.9 MBOE/d in the third quarter of 2011.
Redtail Prospect. As of December 31, 2011, we had approximately 105,600 gross (73,600 net) acres in our Redtail prospect in the Weld County, Colorado portion of the Denver Julesburg Basin. In late 2010, we initiated a seven-well exploratory drilling program (five horizontal and two vertical monitor wells) in the Niobrara formation. Based on the results of our exploratory drilling program and recently acquired 3-D seismic data, we plan to drill eight additional wells and continue to operate one drilling rig on this prospect in 2012.
Permian Basin Region
Our Permian Basin operations include assets in Texas and New Mexico. As of December 31, 2011, the Permian Basin region contributed 128.8 MMBOE (95% oil) of estimated proved reserves to our portfolio of operations, which represented 37% of our total estimated proved reserves and contributed 13.1 MBOE/d of average daily production in December 2011.
North Ward Estes Field. The North Ward Estes field includes six base leases with 100% working interests in approximately 58,000 gross and net acres in Ward and Winkler counties, Texas. Whiting recently began drilling operations at a pilot project in our North Ward Estes field to test a Residual Oil Zone (“ROZ”). Current EOR production is from the Yates formation at 2,600 feet, which is the primary producing zone, with additional production from other zones including the Queen at 3,000 feet. We plan to initiate CO2 injection into the deeper ROZ during the first quarter of 2012. In the North Ward Estes field, the estimated proved reserves as of December 31, 2011 were 44% PDP, 15% PDNP and 41% PUD.
The North Ward Estes field is responding positively to our water and CO2 floods, which we initiated in May 2007. Production from the field has increased 4% from 8.4 MBOE/d in the third quarter of 2011 to 8.8 MBOE/d in the fourth quarter of 2011. As of February 1, 2012, we were injecting approximately 300 MMcf/d of CO2 in this field, over half of which is recycled. In this field, we are developing new and reactivated wells for water and CO2 injection and production purposes. Additionally, we plan to install oil, gas and water processing facilities in eight phases. The first three phases are essentially complete and are currently undergoing water and CO2 injection. The field and injection infrastructure of Phase IV is complete and injection has been initiated on about half of the project.
In order to fully develop the proved undeveloped reserves at North Ward Estes within our currently planned timeframe, we will need to utilize significant quantities of purchased CO2. As of December 31, 2011, we currently have under contract 100% of the future CO2 volumes that we believe are necessary to develop the North Ward Estes proved undeveloped reserves. We are currently in negotiations and planning for future sources capable of generating sufficient CO2 quantities to carry out the development of all probable and possible reserves at North Ward Estes. We are therefore reasonably certain that we will be able to successfully obtain all the necessary CO2 quantities required to develop the North Ward Estes proved reserves within our planned timeframe. However, we cannot provide absolute assurance with respect to the timing or actual quantities of CO2 that will be obtainable for the development of oil and gas reserves at North Ward Estes.
Big Tex Prospect. As of December 31, 2011, we had accumulated approximately 120,700 gross (89,800 net) acres in our Big Tex prospect in Pecos, Reeves and Ward counties, Texas in the Delaware Basin. Prospective formations include the Brushy Canyon, Bone Spring and Wolfcamp horizons. During 2012, we plan to drill 13 wells in the Big Tex prospect, the majority of which are expected to be horizontal Bone Spring wells. This includes a four-well program to test the Wolfcamp horizon with two vertical wells on the western side of our acreage and two horizontal wells on the northern portion of the acreage. We expect to continue to operate two rigs on the prospect in 2012.
Mid-Continent Region
Our Mid-Continent operations include assets in Oklahoma, Arkansas and Kansas. As of December 31, 2011, the Mid-Continent region contributed 41.2 MMBOE (92% oil) of proved reserves to our portfolio of operations, which represented 12% of our total estimated proved reserves and contributed 8.3 MBOE/d of average daily production in December 2011. The majority of the proved value within our Mid-Continent operations is related to properties in the Postle field.
Postle Field. The Postle field, located in Texas County, Oklahoma, includes five producing units and one producing lease covering a total of approximately 25,600 gross (24,200 net) acres. Four of the units are currently active CO2 enhanced recovery projects. In the fourth quarter of 2011, production from the field averaged 8.1 MBOE/d, which is relatively constant as compared to 8.0 MBOE/d in the third quarter of 2011. As of February 1, 2012, we were injecting approximately 120 MMcf/d of CO2 in this field, over half of which is recycled gas. We manage our CO2 flood at Postle on a pattern-by-pattern basis in order to optimize utilization of CO2, production and ultimate recovery. A pattern typically consists of a producing well surrounded by four water/CO2 injectors. As a pattern matures, increasing volumes of water are alternated with CO2 injection to control gas breakthrough and sweep efficiency. This process, referred to as “WAG” (Water Alternating Gas), typically results in the highest possible oil recovery. In the Postle field, the estimated proved reserves as of December 31, 2011 were 90% PDP, 4% PDNP and 6% PUD.
We are the sole owner of the Dry Trails gas plant located in the Postle field. This gas processing plant utilizes a membrane technology to separate CO2 gas from the produced wellhead mixture of hydrocarbon and CO2 gas so that the CO2 gas can be re-injected into the producing formation.
In addition to the producing assets and processing plant, we have a 60% interest in the 120-mile Transpetco operated CO2 transportation pipeline, thereby assuring the delivery of CO2 to the Postle field at a fair tariff. We have a long-term CO2 purchase agreement to provide the necessary CO2 to carry out the flood over the life of the field.
Michigan Region
As of December 31, 2011, our estimated proved reserves in the Michigan region were 10.3 MMBOE (33% oil), which represents 3% of our total estimated proved reserves, and our December 2011 daily production averaged 2.6 MBOE/d. Production in Michigan can be divided into two groups. The majority of the reserves are in non-operated Antrim Shale wells located in the northern part of the state. The remainder of the Michigan reserves are typified by more conventional oil and gas production located in the central and southern parts of the state. We also operate the West Branch and Reno gas processing plants. The West Branch plant gathers production from the Clayton unit, West Branch field and other smaller fields.
Gulf Coast Region
Our Gulf Coast operations include assets located in Texas, Louisiana and Mississippi. As of December 31, 2011, the Gulf Coast region contributed 5.7 MMBOE (32% oil) of proved reserves to our portfolio of operations, which represented 2% of our total estimated proved reserves and contributed 1.8 MBOE/d of average daily production in December 2011.
Reserves
As of December 31, 2011, all of our oil and gas reserves are attributable to properties within the United States. A summary of our oil and gas reserves as of December 31, 2011 based on average fiscal-year prices (calculated as the unweighted arithmetic average of the first-day-of-the-month price for each month within the 12-month period ended December 31, 2011) is as follows:
Proved reserves. Estimates of proved developed and undeveloped reserves are inherently imprecise and are continually subject to revision based on production history, results of additional exploration and development, price changes and other factors.
In 2011, total extensions and discoveries of 48.6 MMBOE were primarily attributable to successful drilling in the Sanish field and Pronghorn area of our Lewis & Clark prospect. These new producing wells and related proved undeveloped locations added during the year increased our proved reserves in the Sanish and Pronghorn areas.
In 2011, revisions to previous estimates increased proved developed and undeveloped reserves by a net amount of 19.0 MMBOE. Included in these revisions were (i) 4.7 MMBOE of upward adjustments caused by higher crude oil prices incorporated into our reserve estimates at December 31, 2011 as compared to December 31, 2010 and (ii) 14.3 MMBOE of net upward adjustments attributable to reservoir analysis and well performance. The liquids component of the net 14.3 MMBOE revision consisted of a 15.7 MMBOE increase that was primarily related to our Postle and North Ward Estes fields where the performance of our CO2 injection enhanced oil recovery (“EOR”) projects supported an increase in the proved reserve assignments. The gas component of the net 14.3 MMBOE revision consisted of a 1.4 MMBOE decrease that was primarily related to the Flat Rock field where proved reserve assignments were reduced due to production performance of two recently completed wells.
Proved undeveloped reserves. From December 31, 2010 to December 31, 2011, our proved undeveloped reserves (“PUDs”) increased 19% or 17.2 MMBOE. This increase in proved undeveloped reserves was primarily attributable to additional PUD locations added as a result of successful drilling on recently acquired North Dakota acreage and additional PUD reserves being assigned to our North Ward Estes EOR project. There were 8.2 MMBOE of PUDs that became proved developed reserves during the year as a result of 34 proved undeveloped well locations that were drilled and placed on production in 2011. We incurred $113.9 million in capital expenditures, or $13.82 per BOE, to drill and bring on-line these 34 PUD locations. In addition, there were approximately 4.6 MMBOE of PUDs that became proved developed reserves in 2011 at our CO2 EOR projects in the Postle and North Ward Estes fields. These PUDs were converted to proved developed at a cost of approximately $23.91 per BOE. Combining the PUD drilling conversions with the PUD enhanced oil recovery conversions, the Company converted 12.8 MMBOE of PUDs to proved developed reserves during 2011 at a cost of $17.45 per BOE.
Based on our 2011 year end independent engineering reserve report, we will drill all of our individual PUD drilling locations within five years. However, we do have certain quantities of proved undeveloped reserves in the North Ward Estes field that will remain in the PUD category for periods extending beyond five years because of certain external factors that preclude the development of the North Ward Estes enhanced oil recovery PUDs all at once. Due to the large areal extent of the field, the CO2 enhanced recovery project will progress through the field in a sequential manner as earlier injection areas are completed and new injection areas are initiated. External factors that preclude the initiation of the CO2 project throughout the field at the same time include (i) the volume of injection water necessary to repressure the reservoir in advance of the CO2 injection, (ii) the volume of purchased and recycled CO2 necessary to be injected to process the oil in the reservoir, and (iii) the equipment and manpower necessary to build the infrastructure and prepare the wells for the CO2 enhanced recovery project. Our staged development plan is designed to expand the project as quickly and efficiently as possible to fully develop the field.
Probable reserves. Estimates of probable developed and undeveloped reserves are inherently imprecise. When producing an estimate of the amount of oil and gas that is recoverable from a particular reservoir, an estimated quantity of probable reserves is an estimate that is as likely as not to be achieved. Estimates of probable reserves are also continually subject to revision based on production history, results of additional exploration and development, price changes and other factors.
We use deterministic methods to estimate probable reserve quantities, and when deterministic methods are used, it is as likely as not that actual remaining quantities recovered will exceed the sum of estimated proved plus probable reserves. Probable reserves may be assigned to areas of a reservoir adjacent to proved reserves where data control or interpretations of available data are less certain, even if the interpreted reservoir continuity of structure or productivity does not meet the reasonable certainty criterion. Probable reserves may be assigned to areas that are structurally higher than the proved area if these areas are in communication with the proved reservoir. Probable reserves estimates also include potential incremental quantities associated with a greater percentage recovery of the hydrocarbons in place than assumed for proved reserves.
Increases in probable reserves during 2011 were primarily attributable to (i) 65 new probable undeveloped well locations, which were added in 2011 as a result of our drilling activity on recently acquired acreage in North Dakota and (ii) reserve volumes at North Ward Estes moving from the possible reserve category to the probable reserve category as the continued performance of the EOR projects supports the upgrade in classification.
Possible reserves. Estimates of possible developed and undeveloped reserves are also inherently imprecise. When producing an estimate of the amount of oil and gas that is recoverable from a particular reservoir, an estimated quantity of possible reserves is an estimate that might be achieved, but only under more favorable circumstances than are likely. Estimates of possible reserves are also continually subject to revision based on production history, results of additional exploration and development, price changes and other factors.
We use deterministic methods to estimate possible reserve quantities, and when deterministic methods are used to estimate possible reserve quantities, the total quantities ultimately recovered from a project have a low probability of exceeding proved plus probable plus possible reserves. Possible reserves may be assigned to areas of a reservoir adjacent to probable reserves where data control and interpretations of available data are progressively less certain. Frequently, this will be in areas where geoscience and engineering data are unable to define clearly the area and vertical limits of commercial production from the reservoir. Possible reserves also include incremental quantities associated with a greater percentage recovery of the hydrocarbons in place than the recovery quantities assumed for probable reserves.
Possible reserves may be assigned where geoscience and engineering data identify directly adjacent portions of a reservoir within the same accumulation that may be separated from proved areas by faults with displacement less than formation thickness or other geological discontinuities and that have not been penetrated by a wellbore, and we believe that such adjacent portions are in communication with the known (proved) reservoir. Possible reserves may be assigned to areas that are structurally higher or lower than the proved area if these areas are in communication with the proved reservoir.
Possible reserves decreased during 2011 primarily due to (i) reserve volumes at North Ward Estes moving from the possible reserve category to the probable reserve category as the continued performance of the EOR projects supports the upgrade in classification, and (ii) the reduction in possible reserves assigned to the Sanish field. These reserve volumes, which were based on lower production declines and shallower terminal decline rates have been moved to the proved developed producing reserve assignments or deleted depending on individual well performance.
At December 31, 2011, our probable reserves were estimated to be 105.9 MMBOE and our possible reserves were estimated to be 195.3 MMBOE, for a total of 301.2 MMBOE. The EOR project at our North Ward Estes field represented 115.5 MMBOE, or 38%, of our total 301.2 MMBOE probable and possible reserve quantities. In order to fully develop the EOR probable and possible reserves at North Ward Estes, we will need to utilize significant quantities of purchased CO2. We are currently in negotiations and planning for future sources capable of generating sufficient CO2 quantities to carry out the development of all probable and possible reserves at North Ward Estes. However, the availability of future CO2 supplies is subject to uncertainty and may require significant future capital expenditures by us, and we cannot therefore provide assurance with respect to the timing or actual quantities of CO2 that will be obtainable for the development such reserves.
Preparation of reserves estimates. The Company maintains adequate and effective internal controls over the reserve estimation process as well as the underlying data upon which reserve estimates are based. The primary inputs to the reserve estimation process are comprised of technical information, financial data, ownership interests and production data. All field and reservoir technical information, which is updated annually, is assessed for validity when the reservoir engineers hold technical meetings with geoscientists, operations and land personnel to discuss field performance and to validate future development plans. Current revenue and expense information is obtained from the Company’s accounting records, which are subject to external quarterly reviews, annual audits and their own set of internal controls over financial reporting. Internal controls over financial reporting are assessed for effectiveness annually using the criteria set forth in Internal Control - Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. All current financial data such as commodity prices, lease operating expenses, production taxes and field commodity price differentials are updated in the reserve database and then analyzed to ensure that they have been entered accurately and that all updates are complete. The Company’s current ownership in mineral interests and well production data are also subject to the aforementioned internal controls over financial reporting, and they are incorporated in the reserve database as well and verified to ensure their accuracy and completeness. Once the reserve database has been entirely updated with current information, and all relevant technical support material has been assembled, Whiting’s independent engineering firm Cawley, Gillespie & Associates, Inc. (“CG&A”) meets with Whiting’s technical personnel in the Company’s Denver and Midland offices to review field performance and future development plans. Following these reviews, the reserve database and supporting data is furnished to CG&A so that they can prepare their independent reserve estimates and final report. Access to the Company’s reserve database is restricted to specific members of the reservoir engineering department.
CG&A is a Texas Registered Engineering Firm. Our primary contact at CG&A is Mr. Robert D. Ravnaas, President. Mr. Ravnaas is a State of Texas Licensed Professional Engineer. See Exhibit 99.2 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the Report of Cawley, Gillespie & Associates, Inc. and further information regarding the professional qualifications of Mr. Ravnaas.
Our Vice President of Reservoir Engineering and Acquisitions is responsible for overseeing the preparation of the reserves estimates. He has over 38 years of experience, the majority of which has involved reservoir engineering and reserve estimation, holds a Bachelor’s degree in petroleum engineering from the University of Wyoming, holds an MBA from the University of Denver and is a registered Professional Engineer. He has also served on the national Board of Directors of the Society of Petroleum Evaluation Engineers.
Acreage
The following table summarizes gross and net developed and undeveloped acreage by state at December 31, 2011. Net acreage is our percentage ownership of gross acreage. Acreage in which our interest is limited to royalty and overriding royalty interests is excluded.
_____________________
(1)
Other includes Alabama, Arkansas, Kansas, Mississippi and New Mexico.
(2)
Out of a total of approximately 1,432,060 gross (905,710 net) undeveloped acres as of December 31, 2011, the portion of our net undeveloped acres that is subject to expiration over the next three years, if not successfully developed or renewed, is less than 1% in 2012, approximately 23% in 2013 and 15% in 2014.
Production History
The following table presents historical information about our produced oil and gas volumes:
_____________________
(1)
The North Ward Estes and Sanish fields were our only fields that contained 15% or more of our total proved reserve volumes as of December 31, 2011.
(2)
Production costs reported above exclude from lease operating expenses ad valorem taxes of $13.9 million ($0.56 per BOE), $17.7 million ($0.75 per BOE) and $12.2 million ($0.61 per BOE) for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.
Productive Wells
The following table summarizes gross and net productive oil and natural gas wells by region at December 31, 2011. A net well is our percentage ownership of a gross well. Wells in which our interest is limited to royalty and overriding royalty interests are excluded.
_____________________
(1)
139 wells are multiple completions. These 139 wells contain a total of 342 completions. One or more completions in the same bore hole are counted as one well.
We have an interest in or operate 35 EOR projects, which include both secondary (waterflood) and tertiary (CO2 injection) recovery efforts, and aggregate production from such EOR fields averaged 20.1 MBOE/d during 2011 or 30% of our 2011 daily production. For these areas, we need to use enhanced recovery techniques in order to maintain oil and gas production from these fields.
Drilling Activity
We are engaged in numerous drilling activities on properties presently owned and intend to drill or develop other properties acquired in the future. The following table sets forth our drilling activity for the last three years. A dry well is an exploratory, development or extension well that proves to be incapable of producing either oil or gas in sufficient quantities to justify completion as an oil or gas well. A productive well is an exploratory, development or extension well that is not a dry well. The information below should not be considered indicative of future performance, nor should it be assumed that there is necessarily any correlation between the number of productive wells drilled and quantities of reserves found.
As of December 31, 2011, 27 operated drilling rigs and 67 operated workover rigs were active on our properties. We were also participating in the drilling of two non-operated wells. The breakdown of our operated rigs is as follows:
Hydraulic Fracturing
Hydraulic fracturing is a common practice in the oil and gas industry that is used to stimulate production of hydrocarbons from tight oil and gas formations. The process involves the injection of water, sand and chemicals under pressure into formations to fracture the surrounding rock and stimulate production. This process has typically been regulated by state oil and gas commissions. However, as described in more detail in Item 1. “Business - Regulation - Environmental Regulations - Hydraulic Fracturing” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the EPA has attempted to begin to regulate hydraulic fracturing; other federal agencies are examining hydraulic fracturing; and federal legislation is pending with respect to hydraulic fracturing. We have utilized hydraulic fracturing in the completion of our wells in North Dakota, Colorado, Michigan, Montana and Texas, and we plan on continuing to utilize this completion methodology.
Proved undeveloped reserves associated with hydraulic fracture treatments consist of substantially all of our proved undeveloped reserves, or 106.9 MMBOE.
In November 2010, we had a well control incident involving one well in our Sanish field, whereby the North Dakota Industrial Commission (“NDIC”) filed a complaint against Whiting alleging the violation of regulations. This matter resulted in us entering into a consent agreement with the NDIC, pursuant to which we paid $4,357 in costs, donated $15,000 to the North Dakota Abandoned Oil and Gas Well Plugging and Site Reclamation Fund, and agreed to implement certain operational procedures. Other than this incident, we are not aware of any environmental incidents, citations or suits related to hydraulic fracturing operations involving oil and gas properties that we operate or our non-operated interests.
In order to minimize any potential environmental impact from hydraulic fracture treatments, we have taken the following steps:
•
we follow fracturing and flowback procedures that comply with or exceed NDIC requirements;
•
we train all company and contract personnel responsible for well preparation, fracture stimulation and flowback on our procedures;
•
we have implemented the incremental procedures of running a well casing caliper; visually inspecting the surface joint of intermediate casing; and if a lighter wall joint of casing or drilling wear is detected, the minimum burst pressure is reduced accordingly;
•
for wells that are within one mile of major bodies of water or locations that lead to bodies of water, we construct sufficient berming around the well location prior to initiating fracturing operations;
•
we run fracturing strings in certain situations when extra precaution is warranted, such as where the anticipated maximum treating pressure for the well is greater than the pressure rating of the intermediate casing or in areas located within one mile of major bodies of water; and
•
we are constructing a facility in North Dakota to treat and dispose of flow fluids from well stimulations.
While we do not have insurance policies in effect that are intended to provide coverage for losses solely related to hydraulic fracturing operations, we do have general liability and excess liability insurance policies that we believe would cover third party claims related to hydraulic fracturing operations and associated legal expenses in accordance with, and subject to, the terms of such policies.
Delivery Commitments
Our production sales agreements contain customary terms and conditions for the oil and natural gas industry, generally provide for sales based on prevailing market prices in the area, and generally have terms of one year or less. We have also entered into physical delivery contracts which require us to deliver fixed volumes of natural gas. As of December 31, 2011, we had delivery commitments of 5.7 Bcf (or 22% of total 2011 natural gas production), 4.4 Bcf (17%) and 4.0 Bcf (15%) for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2013 and 2014, respectively. These contracts relate to production at our Boies Ranch field in Rio Blanco County, Colorado, our Antrim Shale wells in Michigan and our Flat Rock field in Uintah County, Utah. We believe our production and reserves are adequate to meet these delivery commitments. See “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure about Market Risk” in Item 7A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for more information about these contracts.
Item 3.