Item 2. Properties
Summary of Oil and Gas Properties and Projects
Rocky Mountains Region
Our Rocky Mountains operations include assets in the states of Colorado, Montana, North Dakota, Utah and Wyoming. As of December 31, 2014, our estimated proved reserves in the Rocky Mountains region were 635.7 MMBOE (83% oil), which represented 81% of our total estimated proved reserves and contributed 116.2 MBOE/d of average daily production in the fourth quarter of 2014.
Sanish and Parshall Fields. Our Sanish and Parshall fields in Mountrail County, North Dakota target the Bakken and Three Forks formations and encompass approximately 169,900 gross (82,600 net) developed and undeveloped acres. Net production in the Sanish and Parshall fields averaged 45.0 MBOE/d for the fourth quarter of 2014, representing a 2% decrease from 46.1 MBOE/d in the third quarter of 2014. As of December 31, 2014, we had three drilling rigs active in the Sanish field. Based on the success of our high density pilot programs in the Sanish field, we commenced a development program drilling nine Bakken wells per spacing unit in the area, an increase over our original plan of three to four wells per spacing unit. Additionally, we have implemented a new slickwater fracture stimulation method using cemented liners at the Sanish field and are encouraged by the initial results.
In order to process the produced gas stream from the Sanish wells, we constructed and brought on-line the Robinson Lake gas plant. The plant has a current processing capacity of 130 MMcf/d and fractionation equipment that allows us to convert NGLs into propane and butane, which end products can then be sold locally for higher realized prices.
Lewis & Clark/Pronghorn Fields. Our Lewis & Clark/Pronghorn fields are located primarily in the Stark and Billings counties of North Dakota and run along the Bakken shale pinch-out in the southern Williston Basin. In this area, the Upper Bakken shale is thermally mature and moderately over-pressured, and we believe that it has charged reservoir zones within the immediately underlying Pronghorn Sand and Three Forks formations (Middle Bakken and Lower Bakken Shale is absent). As of December 31, 2014, the Lewis & Clark/Pronghorn fields encompassed approximately 339,200 gross (227,400 net) developed and undeveloped acres. Net production in the Lewis & Clark/Pronghorn fields averaged 16.4 MBOE/d in the fourth quarter of 2014, representing a 2% decrease from 16.7 MBOE/d in the third quarter of 2014. As of December 31, 2014, we had one drilling rig operating in the Pronghorn field, which utilizes drilling pads, with two or three wells being drilled from each pad. We have implemented our new completion design in this field utilizing cemented liners and plug-and-perf technology based on our successful testing of this completion technique in 2013. Additionally, we are evaluating our slickwater fracture stimulation method at the Pronghorn field and are encouraged by the results.
At our gas processing plant located south of Belfield, North Dakota, which primarily processes production from the Pronghorn area, there is currently inlet compression in place to process 35 MMcf/d. As of December 31, 2014 the plant was processing over 23 MMcf/d. In May 2012, we sold a 50% ownership interest in the plant, gathering systems and related facilities. We retained a 50% ownership interest and continue to operate the Belfield plant and facilities.
Hidden Bench/Tarpon Fields. Our Hidden Bench and Tarpon fields in McKenzie County, North Dakota target the Bakken and Three Forks formations and encompass approximately 121,300 gross (69,000 net) developed and undeveloped acres and 18,800 gross (13,900 net) developed and undeveloped acres, respectively, as of December 31, 2014. Net production at Hidden Bench/Tarpon averaged 22.6 MBOE/d in the fourth quarter of 2014, which represents a 40% increase from 16.2 MBOE/d in the third quarter of 2014. Contributing to this period over period production increase was net production added as a result of the Kodiak Acquisition totaling 10.7 MBOE/d from December 8, 2014, the closing date of the acquisition, through December 31, 2014. As of December 31, 2014, we had four drilling rigs active in the Hidden Bench field. We have also implemented our new completion design at our Hidden Bench/Tarpon fields, utilizing cemented liners and plug-and-perf technology incorporating three to five perforation clusters per fracture stage. This new design has generated positive results, demonstrated by average increases of 20% in initial production rates, as well as 30, 60 and 90-day production rates, from wells recently drilled in these fields. At our Tarpon field we have also implemented a completion technique using cemented liners and coiled tubing, and at our Hidden Bench field, based on the success of our high density drilling pilot in this area, we initiated a development program of drilling eight wells per spacing unit, an increase over our original plan of four wells per spacing unit.
Cassandra Field. Our Cassandra field in Williams County, North Dakota targets the Bakken and Three Forks formations and encompasses approximately 29,800 gross (14,000 net) developed and undeveloped acres as of December 31, 2014. As of December 31, 2014, we had one drilling rig active in the Cassandra field. In 2014, we improved our completion design in this area utilizing cemented liners and plug-and-perf technology with increased proppant volumes resulting in significant improvements in performance.
Missouri Breaks Field. As of December 31, 2014, we had approximately 130,300 gross (82,600 net) developed and undeveloped acres at our Missouri Breaks field located in Richland County, Montana and McKenzie County, North Dakota. We have drilled successful wells on the western, eastern and southern portions of our acreage in this area. In the fourth quarter of 2014, net production from the Missouri Breaks field averaged 6.6 MBOE/d, representing an 8% increase from 6.1 MBOE/d in the third quarter of 2014. As
			
		
			
		
of December 31, 2014, we had three drilling rigs active in the Missouri Breaks field. We have implemented a new completion design at this field, utilizing cemented liners, plug-and-perf technology and higher sand volumes, and this new design has significantly improved initial production rates. In addition, we continue to evaluate the slickwater fracture stimulation method used in this area and are encouraged by the initial results.
Other Northern Rocky Mountains. As of December 31, 2014, we had four drilling rigs operating in new areas of the Williston Basin that were acquired in the Kodiak Acquisition. We plan to release two of these rigs during the first quarter of 2015.
Redtail Field. Our Redtail field in the DJ Basin in Weld County, Colorado targets the Niobrara formation and encompasses approximately 185,700 gross (132,200 net) developed and undeveloped acres as of December 31, 2014. In the fourth quarter of 2014, net production from the Redtail field averaged 10.2 MBOE/d, representing an 18% increase from 8.6 MBOE/d in the third quarter of 2014. Our development plan at Redtail currently includes drilling up to eight Niobrara “B” wells per spacing unit and eight Niobrara “A” wells per spacing unit. We are currently completing wells drilled from the Horsetail 30F pad in this area to test a high-density pattern in the Niobrara “A”, “B” and “C” zones, with 32 wells per spacing unit. As of December 31, 2014, we had four drilling rigs operating in this area. As a result of the recent decline in crude oil prices, we plan to decrease the number of rigs operating in this area to three for most of 2015. We have implemented our updated completion design at this field, utilizing cemented liners, plug-and-perf technology and higher sand volumes, which has been yielding improved production results.
In April 2014, we brought online the Redtail gas plant to process the associated gas produced by our wells in this area. The plant’s current inlet capacity is 20 MMcf/d, and we plan to further expand the plant’s capacity to 70 MMcf/d in the second quarter of 2015.
Permian Basin Region
Our Permian Basin operations include assets in Texas and New Mexico. As of December 31, 2014, the Permian Basin region contributed 133.0 MMBOE (83% oil) of estimated proved reserves to our portfolio of operations, which represented 17% of our total estimated proved reserves and contributed 11.5 MBOE/d of average daily production in the fourth quarter of 2014.
North Ward Estes Field. The North Ward Estes field includes five base leases with 100% working interests in approximately 64,900 gross (62,900 net) developed and undeveloped acres in Ward and Winkler counties, Texas. Current production from our EOR project is from the Yates formation at 2,600 feet, which is the primary producing zone, with additional production from other zones including the Queen at 3,000 feet.
The North Ward Estes field has been responding positively to the water and CO2 floods that we initiated in May 2007. We are currently injecting CO2 into one of the largest phases of our eight-phase project at North Ward Estes, and all phases of the project subject to CO2 flood procedures continue to respond positively. In the fourth quarter of 2014, production from the field averaged 9.7 MBOE/d, which represents a 2% increase from 9.5 MBOE/d in the third quarter of 2014. As of December 31, 2014, we were injecting approximately 410 MMcf/d of CO2 in this field, over half of which is recycled.
North Ward Estes’ proved reserves at December 31, 2014 were 40% proved undeveloped. In order to fully develop the reserves at this field within our currently planned timeframe, we will need to utilize significant quantities of purchased CO2. As of December 31, 2014, we currently have under contract the future volumes of CO2 that we believe are necessary to develop the field’s PUDs over at least the next seven years. In addition, we are currently planning for future sources of CO2 capable of generating sufficient quantities to carry out the development of all probable and possible reserves at North Ward Estes. However, we cannot provide assurance with respect to the timing or actual quantities of CO2 that will be obtainable for the development of this field’s oil and gas reserves.
Other
Our other operations primarily relate to assets in Arkansas, Michigan, Oklahoma and Texas. As of December 31, 2014, these properties contributed 11.6 MMBOE (35% oil) of proved reserves to our portfolio of operations, which represented 2% of our total estimated proved reserves and contributed 3.6 MBOE/d of average daily production in the fourth quarter of 2014.
			
		
			
		
Reserves
As of December 31, 2014, all of our oil and gas reserves are attributable to properties within the United States. A summary of our oil and gas reserves as of December 31, 2014 based on average fiscal-year prices (calculated as the unweighted arithmetic average of the first-day-of-the-month price for each month within the 12-month period ended December 31, 2014) is as follows:
Proved reserves. Estimates of proved developed and undeveloped reserves are inherently imprecise and are continually subject to revision based on production history, results of additional exploration and development, price changes and other factors.
In 2014, total extensions and discoveries of 174.8 MMBOE were primarily attributable to successful drilling at our Redtail, Sanish, Hidden Bench, Missouri Breaks, Pronghorn, Tarpon and Cassandra fields. Both the new wells drilled in these areas as well as the PUD locations added as a result of drilling increased our proved reserves.
In 2014, total sales of minerals in place of 2.1 MMBOE were primarily attributable to the disposition of properties in the Big Tex prospect, further described in “Acquisitions and Divestitures” within Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, as well as other property divestitures in the Lucky Ditch, Whiskey Springs and Bridger Lake fields, which decreased our proved reserves.
In 2014, total purchases of minerals in place of 195.6 MMBOE were primarily attributable to the Kodiak Acquisition, whereby we acquired interests in 778 producing oil and gas wells and undeveloped acreage in the Williston Basin, as further described in “Acquisitions and Divestitures” within Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, which increased our proved reserves.
In 2014, revisions to previous estimates increased proved developed and undeveloped reserves by a net amount of 15.3 MMBOE. Included in these revisions were (i) 15.6 MMBOE of net upward adjustments attributable to reservoir analysis and well performance and (ii) 0.3 MMBOE of downward adjustments caused by lower crude oil prices incorporated into our reserve estimates at December 31, 2014 as compared to December 31, 2013.
			
		
			
		
Proved undeveloped reserves. Our PUD reserves increased 98% or 182.0 MMBOE on a net basis from December 31, 2013 to December 31, 2014. The following table provides a reconciliation of our PUDs for the year ended December 31, 2014:
During 2014, we incurred $767 million in capital expenditures, or $25.51 per BOE, to drill and bring on-line 30.1 MMBOE of PUD reserves. Also during 2014, 7.9 MMBOE of PUD volumes became proved developed reserves at our CO2 EOR project in the North Ward Estes field, at a cost of $39.58 per BOE. Combining the PUD drilling conversions with the PUD EOR conversions, we converted PUDs to proved developed reserves at a cost of $28.45 per BOE during 2014.
In addition, we added 135.6 MMBOE of PUD volumes from extensions and discoveries during the year, and this increase in proved undeveloped reserves was primarily due to additional PUD locations added based on successful drilling in the Northern and Central Rockies areas and additional PUD reserves being assigned to our North Ward Estes EOR project.
During 2014, we added total PUD volumes of 94.2 MMBOE through acquisitions, of which 90.5 MMBOE were attributable to the Kodiak Acquisition.
Based on our 2014 year end independent engineering reserve report, we will drill all of our individual PUD drilling locations within five years of the date such PUDs were added. However, we do have certain quantities of proved undeveloped reserves in the North Ward Estes field that will remain in the PUD category for periods extending beyond five years because of certain external factors that preclude the development of the North Ward Estes EOR PUDs all at once. Due to the large areal extent of the field, this CO2 EOR project will progress through the field in a sequential manner as earlier injection areas are completed and new injection areas are initiated. External factors that preclude the execution of the CO2 project throughout the field all at the same time include: (i) the volume of injection water necessary to re-pressure the reservoir in advance of the CO2 injection, (ii) the volume of purchased and recycled CO2 necessary to be injected to process the oil in the reservoir, and (iii) the equipment and manpower necessary to build the infrastructure and prepare the wells for the EOR project. Our staged development plan is designed to expand the project as quickly and efficiently as possible to fully develop the field.
Probable reserves. Estimates of probable developed and undeveloped reserves are inherently imprecise. When producing an estimate of the amount of oil and gas that is recoverable from a particular reservoir, an estimated quantity of probable reserves is an estimate that is as likely as not to be achieved. Estimates of probable reserves are also continually subject to revision based on production history, results of additional exploration and development, price changes and other factors.
We use deterministic methods to estimate probable reserve quantities, and when deterministic methods are used, it is as likely as not that actual remaining quantities recovered will exceed the sum of estimated proved plus probable reserves. Probable reserves may be assigned to areas of a reservoir adjacent to proved reserves where data control or interpretations of available data are less certain and even if the interpreted reservoir continuity of structure or productivity does not meet the reasonable certainty criterion. Probable reserves may be assigned to areas that are structurally higher than the proved area if these areas are in communication with the proved reservoir. Probable reserve estimates also include potential incremental quantities associated with a greater percentage recovery of the hydrocarbons in place than assumed for proved reserves.
Increases in probable reserves during 2014 were primarily attributable to 1,916 new probable well locations that were added in 2014 as a result of the Kodiak Acquisition as well as drilling activity across the Rocky Mountains region. Offsetting these increases were 14.0 MMBOE of probable reserves that were converted to proved reserves during 2014, primarily at our Redtail field and various fields in the Northern Rocky Mountains.
Possible reserves. Estimates of possible developed and undeveloped reserves are also inherently imprecise. When producing an estimate of the amount of oil and gas that is recoverable from a particular reservoir, an estimated quantity of possible reserves is an
			
		
			
		
estimate that might be achieved, but only under more favorable circumstances than are likely. Estimates of possible reserves are also continually subject to revision based on production history, results of additional exploration and development, price changes and other factors.
We use deterministic methods to estimate possible reserve quantities, and when deterministic methods are used to estimate possible reserve quantities, the total quantities ultimately recovered from a project have a low probability of exceeding proved plus probable plus possible reserves. Possible reserves may be assigned to areas of a reservoir adjacent to probable reserves where data control and interpretations of available data are progressively less certain. Frequently, this will be in areas where geoscience and engineering data are unable to define clearly the area and vertical limits of commercial production from the reservoir. Possible reserves also include incremental quantities associated with a greater percentage recovery of the hydrocarbons in place than the recovery quantities assumed for probable reserves.
Possible reserves may be assigned where geoscience and engineering data identify directly adjacent portions of a reservoir within the same accumulation that may be separated from proved areas by faults with displacement less than formation thickness or other geological discontinuities and that have not been penetrated by a wellbore, and we believe that such adjacent portions are in communication with the known (proved) reservoir. Possible reserves may be assigned to areas that are structurally higher or lower than the proved area if these areas are in communication with the proved reservoir.
Possible reserves increased during 2014 primarily due to successful drilling at our Redtail, Sanish, Parshall, Lewis & Clark/Pronghorn and Hidden Bench fields. Offsetting these increases were 7.0 MMBOE of possible reserves that were converted to probable during 2014 at our North Ward Estes field and various other fields in the Northern Rocky Mountains, and 11.8 MMBOE of possible reserves were converted to proved during 2014 at the same areas.
At December 31, 2014, our probable reserves were estimated to be 399.3 MMBOE and our possible reserves were estimated to be 225.5 MMBOE, for a total of 624.8 MMBOE. The EOR project at our North Ward Estes field represented 110.3 MMBOE, or 18%, of our total 624.8 MMBOE probable and possible reserve quantities. In order to fully develop the EOR probable and possible reserves at North Ward Estes, we will need to utilize significant quantities of purchased CO2. We are currently planning for future sources capable of generating sufficient CO2 quantities to carry out the development of all probable and possible reserves at North Ward Estes. However, the availability of future CO2 supplies is subject to uncertainty and may require significant future capital expenditures by us, and we cannot therefore provide assurance with respect to the timing or actual quantities of CO2 that will be obtainable for the development of such reserves.
Preparation of reserves estimates. We maintain adequate and effective internal controls over the reserve estimation process as well as the underlying data upon which reserve estimates are based. The primary inputs to the reserve estimation process are comprised of technical information, financial data, ownership interests and production data. All field and reservoir technical information, which is updated annually, is assessed for validity when the reservoir engineers hold technical meetings with geoscientists, operations and land personnel to discuss field performance and to validate future development plans. Current revenue and expense information is obtained from our accounting records, which are subject to our internal controls over financial reporting. Internal controls over financial reporting are assessed for effectiveness annually using the criteria set forth in Internal Control - Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. All current financial data such as commodity prices, lease operating expenses, production taxes and field commodity price differentials are updated in the reserve database and then analyzed to ensure that they have been entered accurately and that all updates are complete. Our current ownership in mineral interests and well production data are also subject to the aforementioned internal controls over financial reporting, and they are incorporated into the reserve database as well and verified to ensure their accuracy and completeness. Once the reserve database has been entirely updated with current information, and all relevant technical support material has been assembled, our independent engineering firm Cawley, Gillespie & Associates, Inc. (“CG&A”) meets with our technical personnel in our Denver and Midland offices to review field performance and future development plans. Following these reviews, the reserve database and supporting data is furnished to CG&A so that they can prepare their independent reserve estimates and final report. Access to our reserve database is restricted to specific members of the reservoir engineering department.
CG&A is a Texas Registered Engineering Firm. Our primary contact at CG&A is Mr. Robert D. Ravnaas, President. Mr. Ravnaas is a State of Texas Licensed Professional Engineer. See Exhibit 99.2 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the Report of Cawley, Gillespie & Associates, Inc. and further information regarding the professional qualifications of Mr. Ravnaas.
Our Vice President of Reservoir Engineering and Acquisitions is responsible for overseeing the preparation of the reserves estimates. He has over 30 years of experience, the majority of which has involved reservoir engineering and reserve estimation, and he holds a Bachelor’s degree in petroleum engineering from the Colorado School of Mines. He is also a member of the Society of Petroleum Engineers.
			
		
			
		
Acreage
The following table summarizes gross and net developed and undeveloped acreage by state at December 31, 2014. Net acreage is our percentage ownership of gross acreage. Acreage in which our interest is limited to royalty and overriding royalty interests has been excluded.
_____________________
(1)
Other includes Alabama, Arkansas, Kansas, Mississippi and Nebraska.
(2)
Out of a total of 1,611,344 gross (1,172,735 net) undeveloped acres as of December 31, 2014, the portion of our net undeveloped acres that is subject to expiration over the next three years, if not successfully developed or renewed, is approximately 26% in 2015, 29% in 2016 and 13% in 2017.
			
		
			
		
Production History
The following table presents historical information about our produced oil and gas volumes:
_____________________
(1)
The North Ward Estes and Sanish fields were our only fields that contained 15% or more of our total proved reserve volumes as of December 31, 2014.
(2)
Production costs reported above exclude from lease operating expenses ad valorem taxes of $27 million ($0.65 per BOE), $20 million ($0.59 per BOE) and $16 million ($0.54 per BOE) for the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively.
Productive Wells
The following table summarizes gross and net productive oil and natural gas wells by region at December 31, 2014. A net well is our percentage ownership of a gross well. Wells in which our interest is limited to royalty and overriding royalty interests are excluded.
_____________________
(1)
137 wells have multiple completions. These 137 wells contain a total of 341 completions. One or more completions in the same bore hole are counted as one well.
(2)
Other primarily includes oil and gas properties located in Arkansas, Michigan, Oklahoma and Texas.
We have an interest in or operate 32 EOR projects, which include either secondary (waterflood) or tertiary (CO2 injection) recovery efforts, and aggregate production from such EOR fields averaged 12.0 MBOE/d during 2014 or 10% of our 2014 daily production. For these areas, we need to use enhanced recovery techniques in order to maintain oil and gas production from these fields.
			
		
			
		
Oil and Gas Drilling Activity
We are engaged in numerous drilling activities on properties presently owned, and we intend to drill or develop other properties acquired in the future. The following table sets forth our oil and gas drilling activity for the last three years. Wells drilled to develop our CO2 reserves at our Bravo Dome field in New Mexico have not been included in the drilling activity table below. A dry well is an exploratory, development or extension well that proves to be incapable of producing either oil or gas in sufficient quantities to justify completion as an oil or gas well. A productive well is an exploratory, development or extension well that is not a dry well. The information below should not be considered indicative of future performance, nor should it be assumed that there is necessarily any correlation between the number of productive wells drilled and quantities of reserves found.
_____________________
(1)
During 2014, we drilled six CO2 wells at our Bravo Dome field that were exploratory dry holes and that have not been included in the drilling results above.
As of December 31, 2014, we had 21 operated drilling rigs active on our properties. The breakdown of our operated rigs by geographic area is as follows:
Hydraulic Fracturing
Hydraulic fracturing is a common practice in the oil and gas industry that is used to stimulate production of hydrocarbons from tight oil and gas formations. The process involves the injection of water, sand and chemicals under pressure into formations to fracture the surrounding rock and stimulate production. This process has typically been regulated by state oil and gas commissions. However, as described in more detail in “Business - Regulation - Environmental Regulations - Hydraulic Fracturing” in Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the EPA has initiated the regulation of hydraulic fracturing; other federal agencies are examining hydraulic fracturing; and federal legislation is pending with respect to hydraulic fracturing. We have utilized hydraulic fracturing in the completion of our wells in our most active areas located in the states of Colorado, Michigan, Montana, North Dakota, Texas and Wyoming and we plan to continue to utilize this completion methodology.
Whiting’s proved undeveloped reserve quantities that are associated with hydraulic fracture treatments consist of substantially all of our proved undeveloped reserves, or 368.1 MMBOE.
On February 13, 2014, we had a well control incident during drilling operations involving one well in our Hidden Bench field in North Dakota. The well was quickly brought under control with no liquids leaving the location, and there were no resulting injuries. Appropriate regulatory agencies were notified of the incident. Other than this incident, we are not aware of any environmental incidents or citations or suits that have occurred during the last three years related to hydraulic fracturing operations involving oil and gas properties that we operate or in which we own a non-operated interest.
			
		
			
		
In order to minimize any potential environmental impact from hydraulic fracture treatments, we have taken the following steps:
·
we follow fracturing and flowback procedures that comply with or exceed North Dakota Industrial Commission or other state requirements;
·
we train all company and contract personnel, who are responsible for well preparation, fracture stimulation and flowback, on our procedures;
·
we have implemented the incremental procedures of running a well casing caliper, visually inspecting the surface joint of intermediate casing; and if a lighter wall joint of casing or drilling wear is detected, the minimum burst pressure is reduced accordingly;
·
for wells that are within one mile of major bodies of water or locations that lead to bodies of water, we construct sufficient berming around the well location prior to initiating fracturing operations;
·
we run fracturing strings in certain situations when extra precaution is warranted, such as where the anticipated maximum treating pressure for the well is greater than the pressure rating of the intermediate casing or in areas located within one mile of major bodies of water;
·
we conduct annual emergency incident response drills in all of our active areas; and
·
we are a member of the Sakakawea Area Spill Response LLC (“SASR”), which is composed of 13 oil and gas related companies operating in the Missouri River and Lake Sakakawea region of North Dakota. Members agreed to share spill response resources and maintain SASR-owned water response equipment that can be accessed quickly in the early stages of a spill.
While we do not have insurance policies in effect that are intended to provide coverage for losses solely related to hydraulic fracturing operations, we do have general liability and excess liability insurance policies that we believe would cover third-party claims related to hydraulic fracturing operations and associated legal expenses in accordance with, and subject to, the terms of such policies.
Delivery Commitments
Our production sales agreements contain customary terms and conditions for the oil and natural gas industry, generally provide for sales based on prevailing market prices in the area, and generally have terms of one year or less.
We have also entered into physical delivery contracts which require us to deliver fixed volumes of crude oil. As of December 31, 2014, we had delivery commitments totaling 12.4 MMBbl of crude oil (or 37% of total 2014 oil production), 17.8 MMBbl (53%), 19.6 MMBbl (59%), 21.5 MMBbl (64%), 23.3 MMBbl (70%) and 6.0 MMBbl (18%) for the years ended December 31, 2015 through 2020, respectively. These contracts are tied to oil production at our Redtail field in the DJ Basin in Weld County, Colorado. As of December 31, 2014, we determined that it is no longer probable that future oil production from our Redtail field will be sufficient to meet the minimum volume requirements specified in these physical delivery contracts, and as a result, we expect to make periodic deficiency payments for any shortfalls in delivering the minimum committed volumes. We currently anticipate that we will under-deliver by a total of approximately 10.4 MMBbl over the duration of the contracts, which would require undiscounted aggregate deficiency payments of approximately $49 million over the next 5 years. We recognize any monthly deficiency payments in the period in which the underdelivery takes place and the related liability has been incurred. See “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk” in Item 7A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for more information about our delivery commitments under these agreements.
Item 3.