Item 2.
Properties
Summary of Oil and Gas Properties and Projects
Permian Basin Region
Our Permian Basin operations include assets in Texas and New Mexico. As of December 31, 2010, the Permian Basin region contributed 123.6 MMBOE (94% oil) of estimated proved reserves to our portfolio of operations, which represented 41% of our total estimated proved reserves and contributed 12.3 MBOE/d of average daily production in December 2010.
North Ward Estes Field. The North Ward Estes field includes six base leases with 100% working interests in approximately 58,000 gross and net acres in Ward and Winkler Counties, Texas. The Yates Formation at 2,600 feet is the primary producing zone with additional production from other zones including the Queen at 3,000 feet. In the North Ward Estes field, the estimated proved reserves as of December 31, 2010 were 36% PDP, 28% PDNP and 36% PUD.
The North Ward Estes field is responding positively to our water and CO2 floods, which we initiated in May 2007. As of December 31, 2010, we were injecting over 240 MMcf/d of CO2 in this field. Production from the field has increased 9% from 7.0 MBOE/d in the fourth quarter of 2009 to 7.6 MBOE/d in the fourth quarter of 2010. In this field, we are developing new and reactivated wells for water and CO2 injection and production purposes. Additionally, we plan to install oil, gas and water processing facilities in eight phases. The first two phases were largely completed by March 2009, and Phase III began in December 2010. We plan to have all eight phases implemented by 2016.
In order to fully develop the proved undeveloped reserves at North Ward Estes within our currently planned timeframe, we will need to utilize significant quantities of purchased CO2. As of December 31, 2010, we currently have under contract 52% of the future CO2 volumes that we believe necessary to develop the North Ward Estes proved undeveloped reserves, and we are in negotiations with suppliers to enter into long-term contracts that would secure the remaining quantities of CO2 needed to develop the proved reserves at this field. We are therefore reasonably certain that we will be able to successfully obtain all the necessary CO2 quantities required to develop the North Ward Estes proved reserves within our planned timeframe. However, we cannot provide absolute assurance with respect to the timing or actual quantities of CO2 that will be obtainable for the development of oil and gas reserves at North Ward Estes.
Big Tex Prospect. As of December 31, 2010, Whiting had accumulated approximately 78,800 gross (66,200 net) acres in our Big Tex prospect area in Pecos, Reeves and Ward Counties, Texas in the Delaware Basin. Prospective formations include the Wolfcamp and Bone Spring horizons. We have drilled and completed five vertical wells in the Big Tex prospect, and we plan to begin a four-well horizontal drilling program in the second quarter of 2011. We consider this play to be in an early stage, and further drilling is subject to evaluation of our drilling and completion results.
Rocky Mountain Region
Our Rocky Mountain operations include assets in the states of North Dakota, Montana, Colorado, Utah, Wyoming and California. As of December 31, 2010, our estimated proved reserves in the Rocky Mountain region were 121.6 MMBOE (78% oil), which represented 40% of our total estimated proved reserves and contributed 39.5 MBOE/d of average daily production in December 2010.
Sanish Field. Our Sanish area in Mountrail County, North Dakota encompasses approximately 109,200 gross (66,500 net) acres. Net production in the Sanish field averaged 23.5 MBOE/d in the fourth quarter of 2010, a 96% increase from 12.0 MBOE/d in the fourth quarter of 2009. Including non-operated wells, there were 197 producing wells in the Sanish field at year-end 2010, and as of February 15, 2011, 24 wells were in the process of completion and 11 wells were being drilled. Of the 197 wells, 72 were completed in 2010. In order to process the produced gas stream from the Sanish wells, we constructed and brought on-line the Robinson Lake Gas Plant. We expanded the plant during 2010, and in December 2010 we added additional equipment which brought the plant's inlet capacity to 60 MMcf/d. We intend to further expand the plant in order to increase our processing capability to 90 MMcf/d in the third quarter of 2011. We completed the installation of the 17-mile oil line connecting the Sanish field to the Enbridge pipeline in Stanley, North Dakota in late December 2009. As of December 31, 2010, the pipeline was moving approximately 27,200 Bbls of oil per day. This 8-inch diameter line has a daily capacity of approximately 65,000 barrels of oil per day. We expect to have substantially all of our operated production flowing through the pipeline into the Enbridge facility by the second quarter of 2011.
Parshall Field. Immediately east of the Sanish field is the Parshall field, where we own interests in approximately 73,100 gross (18,200 net) acres. Our net production from the Parshall field averaged 4.6 MBOE/d in the fourth quarter of 2010, a 32% decrease from 6.7 MBOE/d in the fourth quarter of 2009. As of February 15, 2011, we have participated in 127 Bakken wells in the Parshall field, the majority of which are operated by EOG Resources, Inc., all of which are producing. Of these wells, one operated well was completed in 2010.
Lewis & Clark Prospect. As of December 31, 2010, we have assembled approximately 360,500 gross (234,900 net) acres in our Lewis & Clark prospect along the Bakken Shale pinch-out in the southern Williston Basin. During 2010 we assembled acreage located primarily in Stark County, North Dakota. In this area, the Upper Bakken shale is thermally mature, moderately over-pressured, and we believe that it has charged reservoir zones within the immediately underlying Three Forks formation. We hold a working interest in 250 1,280-acre spacing units, and we estimate two to four wells per unit to fully develop this area. As of December 31, 2010, we had drilled seven horizontal wells into the Three Forks reservoir at Lewis & Clark, and the average production from these seven wells was approximately 0.6 MBOE/d during the first 30 days of production. We currently have five drilling rigs operating in this area, and we plan to double this rig count by the end of 2011. In January 2011, we also added a full-time dedicated fracture stimulation crew that will focus on the Lewis & Clark area. In addition, we recently broke ground on the construction of a gas processing plant at Lewis & Clark, which is expected to be completed in November 2011.
Flat Rock Field. We acquired the Flat Rock Field in May 2008 and took over operations June 1, 2008. In the Flat Rock field area in Uintah County, Utah, we have an acreage position consisting of approximately 22,000 gross (11,500 net) acres. During 2010, we drilled four successful wells in the field.
Redtail Niobrara Prospect. As of December 31, 2010, we had approximately 89,400 gross (66,100 net) acres in our Redtail Niobrara prospect in the Weld County, Colorado portion of the DJ Basin. In late 2010, we initiated a seven well exploratory drilling program in the Niobrara that will continue through June of 2011 and will consist of two vertical pilot wells and five horizontal production wells. Based on our current acreage position and a successful exploratory program, we could operate up to 220 wells and participate in an additional 131 non-operated wells assuming 320-acre spacing. We have drilled four Niobrara wells as of February 15, 2011. However, this play is in an early stage, and further drilling is subject to evaluation of our drilling and completion results.
Mid-Continent Region
Our Mid-Continent operations include assets in Oklahoma, Arkansas and Kansas. As of December 31, 2010, the Mid-Continent region contributed 41.5 MMBOE (92% oil) of proved reserves to our portfolio of operations, which represented 14% of our total estimated proved reserves and contributed 9.2 MBOE/d of average daily production in December 2010. The majority of the proved value within our Mid-Continent operations is related to properties in the Postle field.
Postle Field. The Postle field, located in Texas County, Oklahoma, includes five producing units and one producing lease covering a total of approximately 25,600 gross (24,200 net) acres. Four of the units are currently active CO2 enhanced recovery projects. Our expansion of the CO2 flood at the Postle field continues to generate positive results. As of December 31, 2010, we were injecting 140 MMcf/d of CO2 in this field. Production from the field maintained an average net rate of 8.9 MBOE/d in the fourth quarter of 2010 and 2009. We manage our CO2 flood at Postle on a pattern-by-pattern basis in order to optimize utilization of CO2, production and ultimate recovery. A pattern typically consists of a producing well surrounded by four water/CO2 injectors. As a pattern matures, increasing volumes of water are alternated with CO2 injection to control gas breakthrough and sweep efficiency. This process, referred to as “WAG” (Water Alternating Gas), typically results in the highest possible oil recovery. However, the production response can be diminished during periods of high water injection. A number of patterns were cycled to water injection during the third and fourth quarters of 2010, which caused a normal slowing of oil response. Operations are underway to expand CO2 injection into the northern part of the fourth unit, HMU, and to optimize flood patterns in the existing CO2 floods. These expansion projects include the restoration of shut-in wells and the drilling of new producing and injection wells. In the Postle field, the estimated proved reserves as of December 31, 2010 were 93% PDP, 2% PDNP and 5% PUD.
We are the sole owner of the Dry Trails Gas Plant located in the Postle field. This gas processing plant utilizes a membrane technology to separate CO2 gas from the produced wellhead mixture of hydrocarbon and CO2 gas so that the CO2 gas can be re-injected into the producing formation.
In addition to the producing assets and processing plant, we have a 60% interest in the 120-mile Transpetco operated CO2 transportation pipeline, thereby assuring the delivery of CO2 to the Postle field at a fair tariff. We have a long-term CO2 purchase agreement to provide the necessary CO2 for the expansion planned in the field.
Gulf Coast Region
Our Gulf Coast operations include assets located in Texas, Louisiana and Mississippi. As of December 31, 2010, the Gulf Coast region contributed 9.4 MMBOE (34% oil) of proved reserves to our portfolio of operations, which represented 3% of our total estimated proved reserves and contributed 2.7 MBOE/d of average daily production in December 2010.
Eagle Ford Trend. We own acreage in the Nordheim, Word North, Yoakum, Kawitt, Sweet Home, and Three Rivers fields along the Eagle Ford Trend in Karnes, Dewitt, Live Oak and Lavaca Counties, Texas. In 2007, we farmed out the Kawitt and Nordheim lease position to another operator who is developing the Eagle Ford Trend with horizontal wellbores. Under the terms of this agreement, we were carried on all drilling and completion costs on four Eagle Ford Trend wells, and Whiting maintained a 16.67% working interest in the completed wells. Going forward, we had the option to participate upfront for a 25% working interest in additional wells to be drilled or elect to take the 25% working interest after payout has occurred. To date, we have elected to take a 25% after payout working interest in seven wells drilled under this farmout. The operator has been successful in drilling Eagle Ford wells and by December 31, 2010 had drilled and completed ten wells. Our net production from the area was 5.3 MMcf/d in December 2010.
Michigan Region
As of December 31, 2010, our estimated proved reserves in the Michigan region were 8.8 MMBOE (32% oil), and our December 2010 daily production averaged 2.8 MBOE/d. Production in Michigan can be divided into two groups. The majority of the reserves are in non-operated Antrim Shale wells located in the northern part of the state. The remainder of the Michigan reserves are typified by more conventional oil and gas production located in the central and southern parts of the state. We also operate the West Branch and Reno gas processing plants. The West Branch Plant gathers production from the Clayton unit, West Branch field and other smaller fields.
Marion 3-D Project. The Marion Prospect, located in Missaukee, Clare and Osceola Counties, Michigan, covers approximately 16,000 gross (14,700 net) acres. Analysis of seismic data identified two drillable prospects, and in late 2010, we drilled one of these prospects and are in the process of completing the well. The second prospect will be drilled in early 2011.
Reserves
As of December 31, 2010, all of our oil and gas reserves are attributable to properties within the United States. A summary of our oil and gas reserves as of December 31, 2010 based on average fiscal-year prices (calculated as the unweighted arithmetic average of the first-day-of-the-month price for each month within the 12-month period ended December 31, 2010) is as follows:
Proved reserves. Estimates of proved developed and undeveloped reserves are inherently imprecise and are continually subject to revision based on production history, results of additional exploration and development, price changes and other factors.
In 2010, total extensions and discoveries of 33.3 MMBOE were primarily attributable to successful drilling in the Sanish field and related proved undeveloped well locations added during the year, which in turn extended the proved acreage in that area.
In 2010, revisions to previous estimates increased proved developed and undeveloped reserves by a net amount of 19.7 MMBOE. Included in these revisions were (i) 15.4 MMBOE of upward adjustments caused by higher crude oil and natural gas prices incorporated into our reserve estimates at December 31, 2010 as compared to December 31, 2009 and (ii) 4.3 MMBOE of net upward adjustments attributable to reservoir analysis and well performance. The liquids component of the net 4.3 MMBOE revision consisted of a 7.4 MMBOE increase that was primarily related to the Sanish field, where reserve assignments for proved developed producing as well as proved undeveloped well locations were adjusted upward to reflect the current performance of producing wells. The gas component of the net 4.3 MMBOE revision consisted of a 3.1 MMBOE decrease that was primarily related to the Beall East field where three proved undeveloped locations were removed from our proved reserve estimates since those wells are no longer planned to be drilled due to continued low gas prices.
Proved undeveloped reserves. From December 31, 2009 to December 31, 2010, our proved undeveloped reserves (“PUDs”) decreased 11% or 10.7 MMBOE. This decrease in proved undeveloped reserves was primarily attributable to PUDs being converted to proved developed at the Sanish and North Ward Estes fields, and such decrease was partially offset by PUD locations added at the Sanish field. The Sanish PUD conversion was the result of our active drilling program in that field during 2010. The PUD conversion at North Ward Estes was due to the continuing expansion of our CO2 enhanced recovery project in that field. There were 25.8 MMBOE of PUDs that were converted into proved developed reserves due to 71 proved undeveloped well locations that were drilled and placed on production during 2010. We incurred $208.7 million in capital expenditures, or $8.09 per BOE, to drill and bring on-line these 71 PUD locations. In addition, there were approximately 18.2 MMBOE of PUDs that became proved developed reserves in 2010 at our CO2 enhanced recovery projects in the Postle and North Ward Estes fields. These PUDs were converted to proved developed at a cost of approximately $15.11 per BOE. Combining the PUD drilling conversions with the PUD enhanced oil recovery conversions, the Company converted 44.0 MMBOE of PUDs to proved developed reserves during 2010 at a cost of $10.99 per BOE.
Based on our 2010 year end independent engineering reserve report, we will drill all of our individual PUD drilling locations within five years. However, we do have certain quantities of proved undeveloped reserves in the North Ward Estes field that will remain in the PUD category for periods extending beyond five years because of certain external factors that preclude the development of the North Ward Estes enhanced oil recovery PUDs all at once. Due to the large areal extent of the field, the CO2 enhanced recovery project will progress through the field in a sequential manner as earlier injection areas are completed and new injection areas are initiated. External factors that preclude the initiation of the CO2 project throughout the field at the same time include (i) the volume of injection water necessary to repressure the reservoir in advance of the CO2 injection, (ii) the volume of purchased and recycled CO2 necessary to be injected to process the oil in the reservoir and (iii) the equipment and manpower necessary to build the infrastructure and prepare the wells for the CO2 enhanced recovery project. Our staged development plan is designed to expand the project as quickly and efficiently as possible to fully develop the field.
Probable reserves. Estimates of probable developed and undeveloped reserves are inherently imprecise. When producing an estimate of the amount of oil and gas that is recoverable from a particular reservoir, an estimated quantity of probable reserves is an estimate that is as likely as not to be achieved. Estimates of probable reserves are also continually subject to revision based on production history, results of additional exploration and development, price changes and other factors.
We use deterministic methods to estimate probable reserve quantities, and when deterministic methods are used, it is as likely as not that actual remaining quantities recovered will exceed the sum of estimated proved plus probable reserves. Probable reserves may be assigned to areas of a reservoir adjacent to proved reserves where data control or interpretations of available data are less certain, even if the interpreted reservoir continuity of structure or productivity does not meet the reasonable certainty criterion. Probable reserves may be assigned to areas that are structurally higher than the proved area if these areas are in communication with the proved reservoir. Probable reserves estimates also include potential incremental quantities associated with a greater percentage recovery of the hydrocarbons in place than assumed for proved reserves.
Increases in probable reserves during 2010 were primarily attributable to (i) 32 new probable undeveloped well locations, which were added in 2010 as a result of our drilling activity on newly acquired acreage in North Dakota, and (ii) new probable undeveloped reserves assigned to the expansion of our CO2 enhanced recovery project in the Postle field.
Possible reserves. Estimates of possible developed and undeveloped reserves are also inherently imprecise. When producing an estimate of the amount of oil and gas that is recoverable from a particular reservoir, an estimated quantity of possible reserves is an estimate that might be achieved, but only under more favorable circumstances than are likely. Estimates of possible reserves are also continually subject to revision based on production history, results of additional exploration and development, price changes and other factors.
We use deterministic methods to estimate possible reserve quantities, and when deterministic methods are used to estimate possible reserve quantities, the total quantities ultimately recovered from a project have a low probability of exceeding proved plus probable plus possible reserves. Possible reserves may be assigned to areas of a reservoir adjacent to probable reserves where data control and interpretations of available data are progressively less certain. Frequently, this will be in areas where geoscience and engineering data are unable to define clearly the area and vertical limits of commercial production from the reservoir. Possible reserves also include incremental quantities associated with a greater percentage recovery of the hydrocarbons in place than the recovery quantities assumed for probable reserves.
Possible reserves may be assigned where geoscience and engineering data identify directly adjacent portions of a reservoir within the same accumulation that may be separated from proved areas by faults with displacement less than formation thickness or other geological discontinuities and that have not been penetrated by a wellbore, and we believe that such adjacent portions are in communication with the known (proved) reservoir. Possible reserves may be assigned to areas that are structurally higher or lower than the proved area if these areas are in communication with the proved reservoir.
Possible reserves increased during 2010 primarily due to the acquisition of new producing properties south of our North Ward Estes field in 2010. We plan on carrying out waterflood and CO2 enhanced recovery projects on these newly acquired fields, and such projects have possible reserves associated with them.
At December 31, 2010, our probable reserves were estimated to be 100.1 MMBOE and our possible reserves were estimated to be 217.1 MMBOE, for a total of 317.2 MMBOE. The enhanced oil recovery (“EOR”) project at our North Ward Estes field represented 130.2 MMBOE, or 41%, of our total 317.2 MMBOE probable and possible reserve quantities. In order to fully develop the EOR probable and possible reserves at North Ward Estes, we will need to utilize significant quantities of purchased CO2. We are currently in negotiations and planning for future sources capable of generating sufficient CO2 quantities to carry out the development of all probable and possible reserves at North Ward Estes. However, the availability of future CO2 supplies is subject to uncertainty and may require significant future capital expenditures by us, and we cannot therefore provide assurance with respect to the timing or actual quantities of CO2 that will be obtainable for the development such reserves.
Preparation of reserves estimates. The Company maintains adequate and effective internal controls over the reserve estimation process as well as the underlying data upon which reserve estimates are based. The primary inputs to the reserve estimation process are comprised of technical information, financial data, ownership interests and production data. All field and reservoir technical information, which is updated annually, is assessed for validity when the reservoir engineers hold technical meetings with geoscientists, operations and land personnel to discuss field performance and to validate future development plans. Current revenue and expense information is obtained from the Company’s accounting records, which are subject to external quarterly reviews, annual audits and their own set of internal controls over financial reporting. Internal controls over financial reporting are assessed for effectiveness annually using the criteria set forth in Internal Control - Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. All current financial data such as commodity prices, lease operating expenses, production taxes and field commodity price differentials are updated in the reserve database and then analyzed to ensure that they have been entered accurately and that all updates are complete. The Company’s current ownership in mineral interests and well production data are also subject to the aforementioned internal controls over financial reporting, and they are incorporated in the reserve database as well and verified to ensure their accuracy and completeness. Once the reserve database has been entirely updated with current information, and all relevant technical support material has been assembled, Whiting’s independent engineering firm Cawley, Gillespie & Associates, Inc. (“CG&A”) meets with Whiting’s technical personnel in the Company’s Denver and Midland offices to review field performance and future development plans. Following these reviews the reserve database and supporting data is furnished to CG&A so that they can prepare their independent reserve estimates and final report. Access to the Company’s reserve database is restricted to specific members of the reservoir engineering department.
CG&A is a Texas Registered Engineering Firm. Our primary contact at CG&A is Mr. Robert Ravnaas, Executive Vice President. Mr. Ravnaas is a State of Texas Licensed Professional Engineer. See Exhibit 99.2 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the Report of Cawley, Gillespie & Associates, Inc. and further information regarding the professional qualifications of Mr. Ravnaas.
Our Vice President of Reservoir Engineering and Acquisitions is responsible for overseeing the preparation of the reserves estimates. He has over 37 years of experience, the majority of which has involved reservoir engineering and reserve estimation, holds a Bachelor’s Degree in Petroleum Engineering from the University of Wyoming, holds an MBA from the University of Denver and is a registered Professional Engineer. He has also served on the national Board of Directors of the Society of Petroleum Evaluation Engineers.
Acreage
The following table summarizes gross and net developed and undeveloped acreage by state at December 31, 2010. Net acreage is our percentage ownership of gross acreage. Acreage in which our interest is limited to royalty and overriding royalty interests is excluded.
_____________________
(1)
Other includes Alabama, Arkansas, Kansas, Mississippi, Nebraska and New Mexico.
(2)
Out of a total of approximately 1,190,700 gross (710,800 net) undeveloped acres as of December 31, 2010, the portion of our net undeveloped acres that is subject to expiration over the next three years, if not successfully developed or renewed, is approximately 10% in 2011, 7% in 2012, and 21% in 2013.
Production History
The following table presents historical information about our produced oil and gas volumes:
_____________________
(1)
The North Ward Estes and Sanish fields were our only fields that contained 15% or more of our total proved reserve volumes as of December 31, 2010.
(2)
Production costs reported above exclude from lease operating expenses ad valorem taxes of $17.7 million ($0.75 per BOE), $12.2 million ($0.61 per BOE), and $16.8 million ($0.96 per BOE) for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.
Productive Wells
The following table summarizes gross and net productive oil and natural gas wells by region at December 31, 2010. A net well is our percentage ownership of a gross well. Wells in which our interest is limited to royalty and overriding royalty interests are excluded.
_____________________
(1)
143 wells are multiple completions. These 143 wells contain a total of 352 completions. One or more completions in the same bore hole are counted as one well.
We have an interest in or operate 34 enhanced oil recovery projects, which include both secondary (waterflood) and tertiary (CO2 injection) recovery efforts, and aggregate production from such enhanced oil recovery fields averaged 17.9 MBOE/d during 2010 or 28% of our 2010 daily production. For these areas, we need to use enhanced recovery techniques in order to maintain oil and gas production from these fields.
Drilling Activity
We are engaged in numerous drilling activities on properties presently owned and intend to drill or develop other properties acquired in the future. The following table sets forth our drilling activity for the last three years. A dry well is an exploratory, development or extension well that proves to be incapable of producing either oil or gas in sufficient quantities to justify completion as an oil or gas well. A productive well is an exploratory, development or extension well that is not a dry well. The information below should not be considered indicative of future performance, nor should it be assumed that there is necessarily any correlation between the number of productive wells drilled and quantities of reserves found.
As of December 31, 2010, 22 operated drilling rigs and 43 operated workover rigs were active on our properties. We were also participating in the drilling of two non-operated wells. The breakdown of our operated rigs is as follows:
Delivery Commitments
Our production sales agreements contain customary terms and conditions for the oil and natural gas industry, generally provide for sales based on prevailing market prices in the area, and generally have terms of one year or less. We have also entered into physical delivery contracts which require us to deliver fixed volumes of natural gas. As of December 31, 2010, we had delivery commitments of 10.5 Bcf (or 38% of total 2010 natural gas production), 5.7 Bcf (21%) and 4.4 Bcf (16%) for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2012 and 2013, respectively. These contracts were related to production at our Boies Ranch field in Rio Blanco County, Colorado, at our Antrim Shale wells in Michigan and at our Flat Rock field in Uintah County, Utah. We believe our production and reserves are adequate to meet these delivery commitments. See “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure about Market Risk” in Item 7A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for more information about these contracts.
Item 3.