ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
Executive Offices
We have moved our principal executive office to 611 N. Nevada Street, Carson City, Nevada 89511. We do not currently maintain any investments in real estate, real estate mortgages or securities of persons primarily engaged in real estate activities, nor do we expect to do so in the foreseeable future.
Borealis Property
Unless stated otherwise, information of a technical or scientific nature related to the Borealis Property is summarized or extracted from the “Technical Report on the Mineral Resources of the Borealis Gold Project Located in Mineral County, Nevada, USA” dated April 28, 2008, prepared by Dr. Roger Steininger, Ph.D., CPG of Reno Nevada, a “Qualified Person”, as defined in National Instrument 43-101 of the Canadian Securities Administrators. The Technical Report was prepared in accordance with the requirements of National Instrument 43-101. Management's plans, expectations and forecasts related to our Borealis Property are based on assumptions, qualifications and procedures which are set out only in the full Technical Report. For a complete description of assumptions, qualifications and procedures associated with the following information, reference should be made to the full text of the Technical Report which is available for review on the System for Electronic Document Analysis and Retrieval (SEDAR) at the website: www.sedar.com and on the Company's website at www.gryphongold.com. Cautionary Note to U.S. Investors: The Technical Report uses the terms "mineral resource," "measured mineral resource," "indicated mineral resource" and "inferred mineral resource". We advise investors that these terms are defined in and required to be disclosed by NI 43-101; however, these terms are not defined terms under Guide 7 and are normally not permitted to be used in reports and registration statements filed with the SEC. See “Cautionary Note to U.S. Investors Regarding Mineral Reserve and Resource Estimates” above.
The Borealis Property in Nevada is our principal asset, which we hold through our subsidiary, Borealis Mining Company (“Borealis Mining”). In the 1980s previous operators of the Borealis Property mined approximately 600,000 ounces of gold from near-surface oxide deposits. In this annual report, the previously mined area is referred to as the “Borealis site”, the “previously disturbed area” or the “previously mined area”, while our references to the Borealis Property refer to the entire property we own or lease through Borealis Mining.
Echo Bay Mines Limited ceased active mining operations in 1991. Full site reclamation was completed in 1994. Reclamation bonds were released and Echo Bay relinquished its lease in 1996.
At Borealis, there is one large hydrothermal system, containing at least 13 known gold deposits, some of which are contiguous. There has been historical production from 8 of these deposits. As there are several other showings of gold mineralization across the property, there is an opportunity to identify additional gold deposits.
Borealis Property Description and Location
The Borealis Property is located in Mineral County in southwest Nevada, 12 miles northeast of the California border. The Borealis Property covers approximately 15,020 acres. The approximate center of the property is at longitude 118° 45' 34” West and latitude 38° 22' 55” North. The figure below shows the location and access to the Borealis Property.
(Source: Gryphon Gold, 2005) The Borealis Property is comprised of 751 unpatented mining claims of approximately 20 acres each, totaling about 15,020 acres, and one unpatented millsite claim of approximately 5 acres. Of the 751 unpatented mining claims, 128 claims are owned by others but leased to Borealis Mining, and 623 of the claims were staked by Golden Phoenix Minerals, Inc. , whom we refer to as Golden Phoenix, or Gryphon Gold and transferred to Borealis Mining. Our rights, through Borealis Mining as the owner or lessee of the claims, allow us to explore, develop and mine the Borealis Property, subject to the prior procurement of required operating permits and approvals, compliance with the terms and conditions of the mining lease, and compliance with applicable federal, state, and local laws, regulations and ordinances. We believe that all of our claims are in good standing.
The 128 leased claims are owned by John W. Whitney, Hardrock Mining Company and Richard J. Cavell, whom we refer to as the “Borealis Owners.” Borealis Mining leases the claims from the Borealis Owners under a Mining Lease dated January 24, 1997 and amended as of February 24, 1997. The mining lease was assigned to Borealis Mining by the prior lessee, Golden Phoenix. The mining lease contains an “area of interest” provision, such that any new mining claims located or acquired by Borealis Mining within the area of interest after the date of the mining lease shall automatically become subject to the provisions of the mining lease.
The term of the mining lease extends to January 24, 2009 and continues indefinitely thereafter for so long as any mining, development (including exploration drilling) or processing is being conducted on the leased property on a continuous basis. On December 31, 2009, the Borealis Owners confirmed that the lease is in the Continuing Term, as defined, and is valid and in full force and effect.The remainder of the Borealis Property consists of 623 unpatented mining claims and one unpatented millsite claim staked by Golden Phoenix, Gryphon Gold or Borealis Mining. Claims staked by Golden Phoenix were transferred to Borealis Mining in conjunction with our January 28, 2005 purchase of all of Golden Phoenix's interest in the Borealis Property. A total of 202 claims of the total 751 claims held by Gryphon Gold are contiguous with the claim holdings, are located outside of the area of interest, and are not subject to any of the provisions of the lease.
All of the mining claims (including the owned and leased claims) are unpatented, such that paramount ownership of the land is in the United States of America. Claim maintenance payments and related documents must be filed annually with the Bureau of Land Management (BLM) and with Mineral County, Nevada to keep the claims from terminating by operation of law. Borealis Mining is responsible for those actions. At present, the estimated annual BLM maintenance fees are $125 per claim, or $94,000 per year for all of the Borealis Property claims (751 unpatented mining claims plus one millsite claim). In addition, Mineral County filling and document fees totaling $6,400 are paid to fulfill the annual filing requirements. The State of Nevada has imposed a one time fee of $85 per claim in 2010, an additional $63,920 will need to be paid in the upcoming fiscal year.
Royalty Obligations
The leased portion of the Borealis Property is currently subject to advance royalty payments of approximately $9,762 per month, payable to the Borealis Owners. These advance royalty payments are subject to annual adjustments based on changes in the United States Consumer Price Index.
On August 22, 2008, the Company entered into a 12 month option agreement, at a cost of $250,000, to amend the Borealis Property mining lease. If exercised, the net smelter return royalty rate will be fixed at 5%, versus the current uncapped variable rate. Payment upon exercise is $1,750,000 in cash, 7,726,250 common shares of the Company and a three year, $1,909,500 5% note payable. The option period can and was extended for an additional six months for a payment of $125,000 that was settled through the issuance of common stock of the Company.
On February 12, 2010 the Company entered into an agreement to extend the option agreement from February 22, 2010 until August 22, 2010 and the extension of the Condemnation Period from August 22, 2010 to August 22, 2011. As consideration for entering into the agreement the Company agreed to pay $150,000 to the Borealis Owners comprised of cash in the amount of $25,000 and shares of the Company’s common stock equal to $125,000, calculated based on eighty percent of the average five day closing price immediately prior to the payment date.
The terms of the mining lease prior to the amendment require the payment of a net smelter return production royalty by Borealis Mining to the Borealis Owners in respect of the sale of gold (and other minerals) extracted from those claims within the area of interest specified in the mining lease. The royalty rate for gold is determined by dividing the monthly average market gold price by 100, with the result expressed as a percentage. The royalty amount is determined by multiplying that percentage by the amount of monthly gold production from the claims in the “area of interest” and by the monthly average market gold price, after deducting all smelting and refining charges, various taxes and certain other expenses. For example, using an assumed monthly average market gold price of $850, the royalty rate would be 8.5%. Using an assumed monthly production of 5,000 ounces of gold from the leased claims, the monthly royalty amount would be 5,000 ounces times $850 per ounce, less allowable deductions, multiplied by 8.5%.
At present, there is no royalty payable to the United States or the State of Nevada on production from unpatented mining claims, although legislative attempts to impose a royalty have occurred in recent years.
Accessibility, Climate, Local Resources, Infrastructure and Physiography
Primary access to the Borealis Property is gained from an all weather county gravel road located about two miles south of Hawthorne from State Highway 359. Hawthorne is about 133 highway miles southeast of Reno. The Borealis Property is about 16 road miles from Hawthorne.
The elevation on the property ranges from 7,200 ft to 8,200 ft above sea level. This relatively high elevation produces moderate summers with high temperatures in the 90°F (32°C) range. Winters can be cold and windy with temperatures dropping to 0°F (-18°C). Average annual precipitation is approximately 10 inches, part of which occurs as up to 60 inches of snowfall. Historically, the Borealis Property was operated throughout the year with only limited weather related interruptions.
Topography ranges from moderate and hilly terrain with rocky knolls and peaks, to steep and mountainous terrain in the higher elevations.
The vegetation throughout the project area is categorized into several main community types: pinyon/juniper woodland, sagebrush, ephemeral drainages and areas disturbed by mining and reclaimed. Predominate species include pinion pine, Utah juniper, greasewood, a variety of sagebrush species, crested wheat grass and fourwing saltbush.
There is a power line crossing the Borealis Property within 2 miles of the center of the potential operations, which we will evaluate for the power source during our potential future engineering feasibility work. Water is available from two water basins located approximately 5 miles and 7 miles south of the planned mine site, respectively. Water for historical mining operations was supplied from the basin 5 miles away from the site. We have obtained permits from the Nevada Division of Water Resources to access water from each of these basins. We believe that each of these basins, individually, would provide a sufficient water supply for our potential operations.
The Borealis site has been reclaimed by the prior operator to early 1990's standards. The pits and the project boundary are fenced for public safety. Currently, access to the pits and leach heap areas is gained through a locked gate. No buildings or power lines or other mining related facilities located on the surface remain. All currently existing roads in the project area are two -track roads with most located within the limits of the old haul roads that have been reclaimed.
The nearest available services for both mine development work and mine operations are in the small town of Hawthorne, via a wide well-maintained gravel road. Hawthorne has substantial housing available, adequate fuel supplies and sufficient infrastructure to meet basic supply requirements. Material required for property development and mine operations are generally available from suppliers located in Reno, Nevada.
History of the District and Borealis Property
The original Ramona mining district, now known as the Borealis mining district, produced less than 1,000 ounces of gold prior to 1981. In 1978 the Borealis gold deposit was discovered by S. W. Ivosevic, a geologist working for Houston International Minerals Company (a subsidiary of Houston Oil and Minerals Corporation). The property was acquired from the Whitney Partnership, which later became the Borealis Owners, following Houston's examination of the submitted property. Initial discovery of ore-grade gold mineralization in the Borealis district and subsequent rapid development resulted in production beginning in October 1981 as an open pit mining and heap leaching operation. Tenneco Minerals acquired the assets of Houston International Minerals in late 1981, and continued production from the Borealis mine. Subsequently, several other gold deposits were discovered and mined by open pit methods along the generally northeast-striking Borealis trend, and also several small deposits were discovered further to the northwest in the Cerro Duro area. Tenneco's exploration in early 1986 discovered the Freedom Flats deposit beneath thin alluvial cover on the pediment southwest of the Borealis mine. In October 1986, Echo Bay Mines acquired the assets of Tenneco Minerals.
With the completion of mining of the readily available oxide ore in the Freedom Flats deposit and other deposits in the district, active mining was terminated in January 1990, and leaching operations ended in late 1990. Echo Bay left behind a number of oxidized and sulfide-bearing gold mineralized material. All eight open pit operations are reported to have produced 10.7 million tons of ore averaging 0.057 ounces of gold per ton (opt Au). Gold recovered from the material placed on heaps was approximately 500,000 ounces, plus an estimated 1.5 million ounces of silver. Reclamation of the closed mine began immediately and continued for several years. Echo Bay decided not to continue with its own exploration and the property was farmed out as a joint venture in 1990-91 to Billiton Minerals, which drilled 28 reverse circulation (RC) exploration holes on outlying targets for a total of 8,120 ft. Billiton Minerals stopped its farm-in on the property with no retained interest.
Subsequently Santa Fe Pacific Mining, Inc. entered into a joint venture with Echo Bay in 1992, compiled data, constructed a digital drill-hole database and drilled 32 deep RC and core holes totaling 31,899.3 feet, including a number of holes into the Graben deposit. Santa Fe terminated its interest in the joint venture in 1993. Echo Bay completed all reclamation requirements in 1994 and then terminated its lease agreement with the Borealis Owners in 1996.
In 1996 J.D. Welsh & Associates, Inc. negotiated an option-to-lease agreement for a portion of the Borealis Property from the Borealis Owners. Prior to 1996, J.D. Welsh had performed contract reclamation work for Echo Bay and was responsible for monitoring the drain-down of the leach heaps. Upon signing the lease, J.D. Welsh immediately joint ventured the project with Cambior Exploration U.S.A., Inc. Cambior performed a major data compilation program and several gradient IP surveys. In 1998 Cambior drilled 10 holes which succeeded in extending the Graben deposit and in identifying a new area of gold mineralization at Sunset Wash.
During the Cambior joint venture period, in late 1997, Golden Phoenix entered an agreement to purchase a portion of J.D. Welsh's interest in the mining lease. J.D. Welsh subsequently sold its remaining interest in the mining lease to a third party, which in turn sold it to Golden Phoenix, resulting in Golden Phoenix controlling a 100% interest in the mining lease beginning in 2000. Golden Phoenix personnel reviewed project data, compiled and updated a digital drill-hole database (previous computer-based mineralization modeling databases), compiled exploration information and developed concepts, maintained the property during the years of low gold prices, and developed new mineralized material estimates for the entire property.
In July 2003 Borealis Mining acquired an option to earn an interest in a joint venture in a portion of the Borealis Property and in January 2005 Borealis Mining acquired full interest in the mining lease and mining claims comprising the Borealis Property. See, “Description and Development of the Business: History and Background of the Company,” above.
We have expended considerable effort consolidating the available historical data since acquiring our interest in the Borealis Property. This data has been scanned, and converted into a searchable electronic form. The electronic database has formed the basis of re-interpretation of the district geologic setting, and helped to form the foundation for a new understanding of the district's potential. We acquired this data from Golden Phoenix in May 2003, and additional information from other sources.
Historical Gold Production
The Borealis Property is not currently a producing mine. Historical data is presented for general information and is not indicative of existing grades or expected production. We have no reserves on the Borealis Property. We cannot be assured that minerals will be discovered in sufficient quantities to justify commercial operations.
Photograph of Borealis district.
View to the east, with Freedom Flat pit in foreground.
The photograph shows the site as it was circa 1991.
(Source: Gryphon Gold 2005)
Several gold deposits have been previously defined through drilling on the Borealis Property by prior owners. Some gold deposits have been partially mined. Reports on past production vary. The past gold production from pits on the Borealis Property, as reported by prior owners is tabulated below. The total of past gold production was approximately 10.6 million tons of ore averaging 0.057 ounces per ton (opt) gold. Mine production resulting from limited operations in 1990 is not included. Although no complete historical silver production records still exist at this time, the average silver content of ore mined from all eight pits appears in the range of five ounces of silver for each ounce of gold. We are determining the potential viability of silver recovery as our feasibility study and more detailed mine planning progress.
Reported past Borealis production, 1981-1990(1)
(1)
The numbers presented in this table are based on limited production records. A later report in 1991 published by the Geologic Society of Nevada reports that production totaled 10.7 million tons with an average grade of 0.059 opt Au.
(2)
Crushed and agglomerated ore is that material which has been reduced in size by crushing, and as a result may contain a significant portion of very fine particles which is then, with the aid of a binding agent such as cement, reconstituted into larger particles and subsequently leached in a heap. The agglomerated ore typically has greater strength allowing for higher stacked heaps and may allow better percolation of leach solutions if the ore has high clay content.
(3)
Run of mine ore is that material which was fragmented by blasting only, and then stacked on the heaps without being further reduced in size by crushing or other beneficiation processes.
Borealis Property Background
In October 2003, we engaged a mining consultant to develop a preliminary scoping study for the redevelopment of the Borealis Property.
Following our consideration of the preliminary scoping study, and based on additional geologic field work, we retained a consulting and resource modeling engineering firm, to complete an updated mineralized material estimate model in accordance with National Instrument 43-101. In May 2005, the engineering firm delivered a report titled the Technical Report on the Mineral Resources of the Borealis Gold Project Located in Mineral County, Nevada. A second report by the engineering firm entitled Technical Report on the Mineral Resources of the Borealis Gold Project Located in Mineral County, Nevada, USA dated August 15, 2006 and Revised January 11, 2007 was completed. Cautionary Note to U.S. Investors: The Technical Reports uses the terms "mineral resource," "measured mineral resource," "indicated mineral resource" and "inferred mineral resource". We advise investors that these terms are defined in and required to be disclosed by NI 43-101; however, these terms are not defined terms under Guide 7 and are normally not permitted to be used in reports and registration statements filed with the SEC. See “Cautionary Note to U.S. Investors Regarding Mineral Reserve and Resource Estimates” above.
A third Technical Report (the “Technical Report”) was completed April 28, 2008, entitled Technical Report on the Mineral Resources of the Borealis Gold Projected Located in Mineral County, Nevada, USA, compliant with National Instrument 43-101. The Technical Report was compiled by Dr. Roger Steininger, Ph.D., CPG of Reno, Nevada. The Technical Report states that the recommended course of action for Gryphon Gold is to increase gold mineralization by completing additional drilling primarily in the previously mined areas, to complete a technical report to determine the feasibility of near term production, and through continued drilling and exploration, delineate possible new mineralized material on the Borealis Property. Cautionary Note to U.S. Investors: The Technical Report uses the terms "mineral resource," "measured mineral resource," "indicated mineral resource" and "inferred mineral resource". We advise investors that these terms are defined in and required to be disclosed by NI 43-101; however, these terms are not defined terms under Guide 7 and are normally not permitted to be used in reports and registration statements filed with the SEC. See “Cautionary Note to U.S. Investors Regarding Mineral Reserve and Resource Estimates” above.
We are undertaking a systematic district-scale exploration program designed to discover and delineate large gold deposits within the greater Borealis property, outside of the known mineral deposits, which should focus along known mineralized trends that project into untested gravel-covered areas with coincident geophysical anomalies. The principal steps to the current drilling plans related to the Borealis Property include:
maintaining all previously obtained permits;
completing the permitting process;
continuing our drilling program, database enhancement and geophysical surveys on the previously disturbed area of the Borealis Property, also referred to as the “Borealis site”;
implementing a systematic metallurgical testing program for gold bearing samples collected;
continuing drilling in the area known as the Graben to test the extent and further define the quality of known sulfide gold mineralization; and
continuing the exploration program for the areas of the Borealis Property outside the Borealis site.
We are actively working on completion of all the above steps. We expect to test other high-potential targets contained in the Central and Western Pediment Prospect areas and the Rainbow Ridge and Tough Hills area.
A fourth Technical Report, the PA was completed September 2, 2008 and authored by John R. Danio, P.E. of Denver, Colorado. The report outlines the possibility of developing a mineable oxidized gold deposit on the Borealis property. Gryphon Gold is undertaking a detailed economic evaluation of the potential for developing an open-pit heap leach gold mining operation on the property. The Preliminary Assessment is not a bankable feasibility study and cannot form the basis for proven or probable reserves on the Borealis Property. Cautionary Note to U.S. Investors: The PA uses the terms "mineral resource," "measured mineral resource," "indicated mineral resource" and "inferred mineral resource". We advise investors that these terms are defined in and required to be disclosed by NI 43-101; however, these terms are not defined terms under Guide 7 and are normally not permitted to be used in reports and registration statements filed with the SEC. See “Cautionary Note to U.S. Investors Regarding Mineral Reserve and Resource Estimates” above.
A fifth Technical Report, NI-43-101 Pre-Feasibility Study of the Mineral Resources of the Borealis Gold Project Located in Mineral County, Nevada, USA, Revised and Restated as at September 17, 2009 was completed and authored by John R. Danio, P.E. of Denver, Colorado. The pre-feasibility was furnished to the SEC as Exhibit 99.2 to our Form 8-K as filed on September 22, 2009. The Pre-Feasibility Study is based on open pit mining and heap leaching of oxide and mixed oxide ores that occur in and around previously mined open pits and re-leaching of ores that were mined and leached during prior operations. Gryphon Gold is undertaking a bankable evaluation of the potential for developing an open-pit heap leach gold mining operation on the property. The Pre-Feasibility Study is not a bankable feasibility study. If we determine to proceed with mine construction, we will be required to obtain additional capital. See “Management's Discussion and Analysis - Liquidity and Capital Resources” and “Risk Factors and Uncertainties”. Cautionary Note to U.S. Investors: The Pre-Feasibility Study uses the terms "mineral resource," "measured mineral resource," "indicated mineral resource" and "inferred mineral resource". We advise investors that these terms are defined in and required to be disclosed by NI 43-101; however, these terms are not defined terms under Guide 7 and are normally not permitted to be used in reports and registration statements filed with the SEC. See “Cautionary Note to U.S. Investors Regarding Mineral Reserve and Resource Estimates” above.
Geological Setting
Regional Geology
The Borealis mining district lies within the northwest-trending Walker Lane mineral belt of the western Basin and Range province, which hosts numerous gold and silver deposits. Mesozoic metamorphic rocks in the region are intruded by Cretaceous granitic plutons. In the Wassuk range the Mesozoic basement is principally granodiorite with metamorphic rock inclusions. Overlying these rocks are minor occurrences of Tertiary rhyolitic tuffs and more extensive andesite flows. Near some fault zones, the granitic basement rocks exposed in the eastern part of the district are locally weakly altered and limonite stained.
The oldest exposed Tertiary rocks are rhyolitic tuffs in small isolated outcrops which may be erosional remnants of a more extensive unit. The rhyolitic tuffs may be correlative with regionally extensive Oligocene rhyolitic ignimbrites found in the Yerington area to the north and within the northern Wassuk Range. On the west side of the Wassuk Range, a thick sequence of older Miocene andesitic volcanic rocks unconformably overlies and is in fault contact with the granitic and metamorphic rocks, which generally occur east of the Borealis district. The age of the andesites is poorly constrained due to limited regional dating, but an age of 19 to 15 Ma is suggested (“Ma” refers to million years before present). In the Aurora district, 10 miles southwest of the Borealis district, andesitic agglomerates and flows dated at 15.4 to 13.5 Ma overlie Mesozoic basement rocks and host gold-silver mineralization. Based on these data, the andesites in the Borealis region can be considered as 19 to 13.5 Ma.
The Borealis district lies within the northeast-trending Bodie-Aurora-Borealis mineral belt; the Aurora district lies 10 miles southwest of Borealis and the Bodie district lies 19 miles southwest in California. All three mining districts are hosted by Miocene volcanics. The intersection of northwesterly and west-northwesterly trending Walker Lane structures with the northeasterly trending structures of the Aurora-Borealis zone probably provided the structural preparation conducive to extensive hydrothermal alteration and mineralization at Borealis.
Local Geology
The Borealis District comprises widespread high-sulfidation(acid-sulfate alteration) gold-silver mineralization that was the focus of recent and historical mining operations. The district trends N70-75W, for seven miles, from Bullion-Delta targets, west-northwest to Purdy Peak. The eastern boundary of the district is west of Mesozoic intrusive rocks, and Pre-Mesozoic sequences. The western limit of the district is unknown and unexplored.
Gold-silver mineralization, silicified fault breccias, zones of silicification, and associated alteration is structurally controlled. The most important structural trends defined in the district are:
Principal displacement zone: Cerro Duro Fracture Zone (CDFZ), striking approximately N70- 75W, brittle fracture system,
Transtensional zone: Freedom Flats-Borealis-East Pit-Northeast Pit (FFBENE), striking approximately N50E,
Antithetic, right lateral, strike slip zones, trending approximately North-South,
Reverse fault systems trending northwest.
Faults, fault breccias, linear zones of silicification and silicified sheeted joints dip steeply, vertical to 60 degrees. These zones dip predominately westerly, i.e. northwesterly, southwesterly, with subordinate northeast dips. Structural zones are laterally discontinuous exhibiting en-echelon patterns and complex sets of conjugate internal joint arrays.
Five distinct styles of silicification occur in the district:
Pervasive micro-granular quartz, + chalcedony-opal, devoid of pyrite, associated with weak (to moderate) leaching, and bleaching of host rocks, i.e. low temperature clays.
Fine-medium grained granular quartz structurally controlled along faults and breccia zones, (a) with pyrite, (b) devoid of pyrite with associated moderate leaching and bleaching, i.e. low to medium temperature clays.
Medium-grained granular quartz, structurally controlled along faults and breccia zones with pyrite, and zones of late stage vuggy-vapor phase acid leaching. Host lithologies, particularly volcaniclastic breccias exhibit a range in clast replacement, i.e. silica absorption, from weak to moderate. Groundmass is replaced by medium-grained granular quartz. Medium temperature clay alteration occurs as peripheral halos.
Medium to coarse-grained quartz with pyrite, structurally controlled, with associated fault breccias and zones of intense silicification, moderate to total replacement of original host lithologies and occasionally replacing preexisting silicified fault breccia zones with associated alunite, barite, with peripheral zones of moderate to intense medium to intense moderate to high temperatures clay alteration.
Quartz sericite pyrite alteration occurs in the granodiorite basement, up to 500 feet from the contact with the volcanic stratigraphy, in fault zones, in zones of stockwork fracturing spatially associated with fault-contact between the basement and volcanic stratigraphy. In addition, as dilatational zones, there are “pods” in the granodiorite, of granular white quartz.
Mineral Deposits
The gold deposits contained within the larger, district scale, Borealis hydrothermal system are recognized as high-sulfidation type systems with high-grade gold mineralization occurring along steeply dipping structures and lower grade gold mineralization surrounding the high-grade and commonly controlled by more permeable volcanic rocks in relatively flat-lying zones. The gold deposits, some with minor amounts of silver mineralization are hosted by Miocene andesitic flows, laharic breccias, and volcaniclastic tuffs, which all strike northeasterly and dip shallowly to the northwest. Pediment gravels cover the altered-mineralized volcanic rocks at lower elevations along the mountain front where there is potential for discovery of more blind (covered by gravel) gold deposits, similar to the Graben deposit.
The surface “footprints” of the high-grade pods or pipe-like bodies, found to date are rather small and they can be easily missed with patterns of too widely spaced geophysical surveys and drill holes. Most of the drilling on the property by prior owners was vertical, and therefore did not adequately sample the steep higher-grade zones. Drill-hole orientation may have underestimated the grades within the district. Several drill holes to the west of Freedom Flats and Borealis encountered gold within the alluvium stratigraphically above known deposits. These holes trace a gold-bearing zone that in plan appears to outline a paleochannel of a stream or gently sloping hillside that may have had its origin in the eroding Borealis deposit. The zone is at least 2,500 feet long, up to 500 feet wide, and several tens up to 100 feet thick. At this point it is unknown if this is a true placer deposit, an alluvial deposit of broken ore, or some combination of both. Additional drilling and beneficiation tests are needed to determine if an economic gold deposit exists.
Exploration
Since the late 1970s, exploration completed at the Borealis property focused on finding near surface deposits with oxide-type gold mineralization. Exploration work consisted of field mapping, surface sampling, geochemical surveys, geophysical surveys, and shallow exploration drilling. Only limited drilling and geological field work was conducted in areas covered by pediment gravels, even though Freedom Flats was an unknown, blind deposit, without surface expression when discovered.
Many geophysical surveys were conducted by others in the Borealis district since 1978. In addition, regional magnetics and gravity maps and information are available through governmental sources. The most useful geophysical data from the historic exploration programs has been induced polarization (chargeability), aeromagnetics, and resistivity.
Areas with known occurrences of gold mineralization, which have been defined by historical exploration drilling, and had historical mine production include: Northeast Ridge, Gold View, East Ridge, Deep Ore Flats, Borealis, Freedom Flats, Jaimes Ridge, and Cerro Duro. All of these deposits still have gold mineralization remaining in place, contiguous with the portions of each individual deposit that were mined. Graben, Crocodile Ridge, Purdy Peak, Boundary Ridge, and Bullion Ridge are known gold deposits in the district that have not been mined. Discovery potential on the Borealis property includes oxidized gold mineralization adjacent to existing pits, new oxide gold deposits at shallow depth within the large land position, gold associated with sulfide minerals below and adjacent to the existing pits, in possible feeder zones below surface mined ore and buried gold-bearing sulfide mineralization elsewhere on the property. Both oxidized and sulfide-bearing gold deposits exhibit lithologic and structural controls for the locations and morphologies of the gold deposits.
The following areas have not been subject to historic mine production, but have been subject to historical exploration that has identified gold mineralization.
Borealis Extension
The Borealis Extension deposit occurs 110 to 375 feet below the surface at the northern and western margins of the former Borealis pit. Generally the top of this target occurs at or slightly below the 7,000-ft elevation. The primary target is defined by 16 contiguous drill holes completed by previous operators that have economically attractive gold intercepts. Thicknesses of mineralized intercepts ranges from 15 to 560 ft with nine holes having from 155 to 560 ft of +0.01 opt of gold; the average thickness of the zone is 236 ft. We have drilled an additional 16 holes into the deposit. The drilling results were generally marginal and further evaluation is needed.
Graben Deposit
The Graben deposit has been defined with approximately 36 historical RC holes and 19 historical core holes. This drilling defined a zone of gold mineralization, using an 0.01 opt Au boundary, that extends at least 2,000 feet in a north-south direction and between 200 and 750 feet east-west, and up to 300 feet thick. The top of the deposit is from 500 to 650 feet below the surface. Near its southern margin the axis of the deposit is within 800 feet of the Freedom Flats deposit and along one portion of the southeastern margin low-grade mineralization may connect with the Freedom Flats mineralization through an east-west trending splay.
Through November 2007, Gryphon Gold has drilled an additional 58 RC drill holes into the Graben zone. All holes had mineralized intervals. Gryphon Gold’s Graben drilling program was designed to test for extensions of the interior high-grade zones and to expand the exterior boundaries of the deposit. Drilling along the margins of the deposit, particularly along the northwestern portion, identified significant extensions of mineralization. Drilling for extensions of the northern and southern high-grade pods also revealed that these zones are larger than previously thought. Additional drilling in, and around, the Graben deposit is needed before it can be considered fully explored. At this point the mineralization estimate for the deposit probably represents a minimum size.
In mid-2007 a controlled source audio-frequency magnetotellurics CSAMT survey was conducted over the Graben deposit as a test case. Several anomalies were identified that correlated favorably with known mineralization. The survey lines ended to the northwest in a similar looking anomaly in an undrilled area. The initial interpretation is that this could be an extension of the Graben deposit, or a separate mineralized area.
Additional drilling is needed to fill in gaps between widely spaced holes in the Graben, and step out from the Graben zone in a north, east and west direction in order to delineate the full extent of the gold mineralization, and to fully define the boundaries of the zone.
North Graben Prospect
The North Graben prospect is defined by the projection of known mineralization, verified by drill hole sampling, and coincident with a large intense aeromagnetic low and an elongate chargeability (IP) high. This blind target lies on trend of the north-northeast-elongate Graben mineralized zone. In 1989, Echo Bay completed a district-wide helicopter magnetic/electromagnetic survey, which identified a large, intense type aeromagnetic low in the North Graben area. This coincident magnetic low/chargeability high is now interpreted as being caused by an intensive and extensive hydrothermal alteration-mineralization system. Five drill holes completed in the North Graben by Gryphon Gold encountered a permissive geologic setting and trace levels of gold mineralization.
In early 2006 the Company completed four holes into the North Graben geophysical anomaly and one additional hole was drilled in 2007. All the holes intercepted a hydrothermal system as indicated by several zones of silicification, and pyrite up to 20 percent. None of the holes contained significant amounts of gold, but were geochemically anomalous in gold and silver, and other important trace elements. North Graben is a target area that needs additional study and drilling to determine if a gold deposit is present.
Rainbow Ridge and Tough Hills Prospects
Previous exploration drilling the Rainbow Ridge and Tough Hills Prospect areas targeted shallow oxide mineralization, generally less than 500 feet deep. In 2006 we completed four gradient IP/ resistivity survey blocks covering a total area of one square mile. Results from these surveys indicate a broad deep seated north, north-east trending chargeability anomaly and a prominent, shallow north west trending chargeability anomaly. These targets are essentially untested by drilling.
Central Pediment (Lucky Boy) Prospect
Another important prospect area is the Lucky Boy area, which may be in a shallower pediment environment in the central portion of the district near the range front. Historic drill holes at the periphery of the zone intersected thick zones of silification and traces of gold mineralization. Echo Bay’s aeromagnetic map shows another magnetic low and Cambior’s IP map shows a coincident chargeability high in the area of the silicification.
We drilled eight RC holes in this area during late 2006 and 2007. All of these holes encountered intense hydrothermal alteration with anomalous gold and favorable trace element geochemistry. A subsequent CSAMT survey indicates that these holes may have encountered the margins of a high-sulfidization gold system. Additional drilling is planned to test the CSAMT anomaly.
Sunset Wash Prospect
The Sunset Wash prospect consists of a gravel-covered pediment underlain by extensive hydrothermal alteration in the western portion of the Borealis district. Sixteen holes drilled by Echo Bay Mines indicate that intense alteration occurs within a loosely defined west-southwest belt that extends westerly from the Jaimes Ridge/Cerro Duro deposits. At the western limit of the west-southwest belt, Cambior’s IP survey and drilling results can be interpreted to indicate that the alteration system projects toward the southeast into the pediment.. Cambior conducted a gradient array IP survey over the Sunset Wash area effectively outlining a 1,000 by 5,000 foot chargeability anomaly. The anomaly corresponds exceptionally well to alteration and sulfide mineralization identified by Echo Bay’s drill hole results. Two structures appear to be mapped by the chargeability anomaly; one is a 5,000-foot long west-southwest-trending structure and the other is a smaller, northwest-trending structure.. Alteration types and intensity identified by the drilling, combined with the strong IP chargeability high and the aeromagnetic low, strongly suggest that the robust hydrothermal system at Sunset Wash is analogous to high-sulfidation gold systems. Cambior drilled three holes to test portions of the Sunset Wash geophysical anomaly and to offset other preexisting drill holes with significant alteration. The westernmost of Cambior’s three holes encountered the most encouraging alteration and gold mineralization suggesting that this drill hole is near the most prospective area. This drill hole intercepted hydrothermally altered rock from the bedrock surface to the bottom of the hole, including an extremely thick zone of chalcedonic replacement in the lower two-thirds of the hole.
We drilled three holes in the same area, all of which encountered strongly developed hydrothermal alteration with anomalous gold and favorable pathfinder trace elements. To assist in defining the target a CSAMT survey was conducted late in 2007 and further defined the anomalous zone. Additional drilling is planned to test the center of the anomaly.
Bullion Ridge/Boundary Ridge
The northeast-trending alteration zone extending along Boundary Ridge into Bullion Ridge contains intense silicification that is surrounded by argillization, with abundant anomalous gold. Widely-spaced shallow drill holes completed by previous operators have tested several of the alteration/anomalous gold zones and defined discrete zones of mineralized material.
Mineralization
Overview
Finely disseminated gold mineralization found in the Borealis epithermal system was associated with pyrite and other gold bearing sulfide minerals such as marcasite when initially deposited by the gold rich hydrothermal fluids. In the upper portions of the near surface deposits, over time through natural oxidation, the pyrite was transformed to limonite releasing the gold particles. Through this geologic process, the mineral character of the deposit was altered, and sulfides were destroyed releasing the gold so that conventional hydrometallurgical processes (e.g. gold heap leaching) could be effectively applied to recover the gold. Gold bound in pyrite or pyrite-silica which was not oxidized (commonly in the deeper deposits) in the geologic process, is not as easily recovered by a simple heap leaching and may require some type of more advanced milling operation. Limited evidence suggests that in certain deposits, such as the Borealis and Freedom Flats deposits, some coarse gold exists, probably in the higher-grade zones.
Oxide Gold Mineralization
Oxide gold mineralization is generally more amenable to direct cyanidation processes such as heap leaching as compared to sulfide gold mineralization.
Oxide deposits in the district have goethite, hematite, and jarosite after iron sulfides as the supergene oxidation products, and the limonite type depends primarily on original sulfide mineralogy and abundance. Iron oxide minerals occur as thin fracture coatings, fillings, earthy masses, as well as disseminations throughout the rock. The degree of supergene oxidation, mineral constituents, and form and occurrence of the oxide minerals in the host rock are significant factors in determining metallurgical performance and ultimate gold recovery. As demonstrated in previous operations, this type of gold bearing material is amenable to conventional heap leaching methodology. Depth of oxidation is variable throughout the district and is dependent on alteration type, structure, and rock type. Oxidation ranges from approximately 250 ft in argillic and propylitic altered rocks to over 600 ft in fractured silicified rocks. A transition zone from oxides to sulfides with depth is common and is characterized by a mixture of oxide and sulfide minerals.
Except for the Graben deposit, all of the known gold deposits are at least partially oxidized. Typically the upper portion of a deposit is totally oxidized and the lower portions unoxidized. In places, such as the Ridge deposits, there is an extensive transition zone of partially oxidized sulfide bearing gold mineralization. Oxidation has been observed to at least 1,000 ft below the surface.
Sulfide Gold Mineralization
Sulfide gold mineralization is generally less amenable to conventional direct cyanidation metallurgical processes, and may require more advanced processes such as milling, flotation, and roasting or some pre-cyanidation treatment. Sulfide deposits in the district are mostly contained within quartz-pyrite alteration with the sulfides consisting mostly of pyrite with minor marcasite, and lesser arsenopyrite. Many trace minerals of copper, antimony, arsenic, mercury and silver have also been identified. Pyrite content ranges from 5 to 20 volume percent with local areas of nearly massive sulfides in the quartz-pyrite zone and it occurs with grain sizes up to 1mm. Gold is commonly restricted to the iron sulfide grains.
The Graben deposit is the best example found to date of the size and quality of sulfide deposits within the district. In addition sulfide mineralization occurs in the bottoms of most of the mined areas, but the most significant of which is beneath the Freedom Flats pit.
Drilling
We have conducted a drilling program on the Borealis site. Set out below is a summary of the drilling work conducted on the Borealis Property by prior owners and by us.
Historical Drill Hole Database
The historical drill hole database used for the Borealis project mineralization models contains 2,417 drill holes with a total drilled length of 671,595 feet. A total of 1,947 holes were drilled inside the mineralization model areas. An additional 470 holes were either drilled outside the mineralization models at scattered locations throughout the district or did not have collar coordinates.
The historic holes were drilled by several different operators on the property. Drill hole types include diamond core holes, reverse circulation holes and rotary holes. The only holes that have down-hole survey information are a few core holes. Since most of the drilling is shallow, the absence of down-hole survey information is not significant. In the deeper Graben zone, however, unsurveyed drill holes may locally distort the shape of the grade zones. Drill hole sampling lengths are generally 5 feet for the RC holes, but vary for the core holes based on geological intervals. Sampling length is up to 25 feet for some of the early rotary holes. Gold assays in parts per billion (ppb) and troy ounces per short ton (opt) are provided for most of the sample intervals. Silver assays in parts per million (ppm) and opt are also provided for some of the sample intervals.
Drilling of Existing Heaps and Dumps
In May 2004 we completed a drilling program on the five Borealis site heaps and parts of the Freedom Flats and Borealis waste dumps. This program consisted of 32 holes totaling 2,478.5 ft. Dump holes were drilled deep enough to penetrate the soil horizon below the dump, while holes on the heaps were drilled to an estimated 10-15 ft above the heap's liner.
Gryphon Gold Drilling Program
Since acquiring the Borealis property we have drilled 252 holes totaling 153,000.5 feet. The majority of these holes were drilled in, and around, known gold deposits. Less than 30 holes can be considered purely exploration.
Sampling and Analysis
General
The Borealis Mine operated from 1981 through 1990 producing approximately 10.7 million tons of ore averaging 0.059 ounces of gold per ton from seven open pits. The mined ore contained approximately 607,000 ounces of gold of which approximately 500,000 ounces of gold were recovered through a heap leach operation (please refer to table “Reported Past Borealis Production 1981-1990”). This historic production can be considered a bulk sample of the deposits validating the database that was used for feasibility studies and construction decisions through the 1980s. With over 2,400 drill holes in the database that was compiled over a 20-year period by major companies, the amount of information on the project is extensive. It is primarily these data that have been used as the foundation of the current mineralization estimate. The bulk of the data was collected beginning in 1978, the year of discovery of the initial ore-grade mineralization, and was continuously collected through the final year of full production. Subsequent owners who conducted exploration programs through the 1990s added to the database.
Previous Mining Operations - Sampling, Analysis, Quality Control and Security
Specific detailed information on sampling methods and approaches by the various mine operators is not available to us. However, a report written in 1981 (referred to in the Technical Report) noted that the drilling, sampling and analytical procedures as well as assay checks were reported as acceptable by industry practice.
Echo Bay Mines performed quality checks on their drill cuttings, sampling and assaying methods as part of their evaluation of the property prior to and following its purchase from Tenneco Minerals, indicating that the original assays were reliable and representative. During their exploration and development programs they also drilled a number of core hole twins of reverse circulation rotary drill holes to compare assay results in the same areas. Houston Oil and Minerals, Tenneco, and Echo Bay Mines are reported to have used standard sample preparation and analytical techniques in their exploration and evaluation efforts, but detailed descriptions of the procedures have not been found. Most of the drill-hole assaying was accomplished by major laboratories that were in existence at the time of the drilling programs. Various labs including Monitor Geochemical, Union Assaying, Barringer, Chemex, Bondar-Clegg, Metallurgical Laboratories, Cone Geochemical, the Borealis Mine lab and others were involved in the assaying at different phases of the exploration and mining activity.
We believe that early work on the property relied on assay standards that were supplied by the laboratories doing the assaying. However, Echo Bay Mines (1986) reported using seven internal quality control standards for their Borealis Mine drill-hole assaying program, with gold concentrations from 170 ppb to 0.37 opt. Analytical labs involved in the standards analyses were Cone Geochemical, Chemex, and the Borealis Mine lab, and the precision of the three labs was reported as excellent (+/- 1 to 8%) for the higher gold grades (0.154-0.373 opt); acceptable (+/- 3 to 14%) for the lower grades (0.029-0.037 opt); and fair (+/- 4 to 20%) for the geochemical anomaly grades (0.009 opt to 170 ppb). These data provide an initial estimation of the precision and accuracy of gold analyses of Borealis mineralization.
During 1986, Echo Bay instructed Chemex to analyze duplicate samples for five selected drill holes. A comparison was made of (a) 1/2 assay-ton fire assay with a gravimetric finish, versus (b) 1/2 assay-ton fire assay with an atomic absorption finish, versus (c) hot cyanide leach of a 10-gram sample. The 1/2 assay-ton fire assay - gravimetric and the 1/2 assay-ton fire assay - atomic absorption gave essentially the same results. However the hot cyanide leach gave results that were 5-11 percent higher in one comparison and significantly lower in another, prompting Chemex to conclude that cyanide leach assaying was not appropriate for Borealis samples. The great majority of the assays in the database are based on fire assays.
We have no information relating to the sample security arrangements made by the previous operators.
Gryphon Gold Operations - Sampling, Analysis, Quality Control and Security
The work we performed to evaluate the 32 holes drilled in 2004 on the five previously leached heaps and two waste dumps was done by a sonic rig to retrieve core-like samples. All drill holes were drilled vertical, with the sample immediately slid into a plastic sleeve that was sealed and marked with the drill hole number and footage interval. These plastic sample sleeves were not reopened until they reached the analytical lab. A Qualified Person and geologist, Dr. Roger Steininger, monitored all of the drill procedures and the handover to the analytical lab. A non-blind standard was added as the last sample of each hole, which was obvious to the lab since the standard was in a pulp bag, although the lab did not know the gold value of the standard.
All samples were submitted to American Assays Labs of Sparks, Nevada. Each analytical sample was split in a rotary splitter with a one-fifth of the sample removed for assay and the remaining four-fifths retained for metallurgical testing. Each assay sample was pulverized and assayed for gold and silver by one assay ton fire assay, and a two hour 200 gram cyanide shake assay for dissolvable gold. As part of the quality control program, standards were submitted to American Assay Labs (AAL) with each drill hole, several assayed pulps and two standards were submitted to ALS Chemex, and three of the duplicates and two standards were submitted to ActLabs-Skyline.
For the hard rock drilling program, started in 2005 and continuing through 2007, reverse circulation drilling services were provided by two international drilling contractors, Diversified Drilling LLC of Missoula, Montana and Eklund Drilling Company of Elko, Nevada. Drill bit size equaled 4 ½ inches in diameter and samples were collected at 5-foot intervals (1.5 meters). All drill samples were bagged and sealed at the drill site by drill contractor employees, placed in bins, and delivered to a secure storage. American Assay Laboratories in Sparks, Nevada picked up the sample bins from secure storage. AAL is ISO/IEC 17025 certified and has successfully completed Canadian proficiency testing (CCRMP). Drill cuttings were dried, crushed to -10 mesh, rotary split to 1,000 grams, pulverized to -150 mesh, split to 350 gram pulps, fire assayed for gold and silver using 1-assay ton fire assay with gravimetric finish. Strict QA/QC protocol was followed, including the insertion of standards and blanks on a regular basis in the assaying process.
In the period between April 2006 and November 2007, reverse circulation drilling services were provided Eklund Drilling Company of Elko, Nevada. Drill bit size equaled 4 ½ inches in diameter and samples were collected at 5-foot intervals (1.5 meters). All drill samples were bagged and sealed at the drill site by the drill contractor employees, placed in bins, and delivered to a secure storage. Inspectorate America Corporation (IAC) in Sparks, Nevada picked up the sample bins from secure storage. IAC is ISO 9001:2000 certified (Certificate number: 37295) and has successfully completed Canadian proficiency testing (CCRMP). Drill cuttings were dried, crushed to -10 mesh, rotary split to 1,000 grams, pulverized to -150 mesh, split to 350 gram pulps, fire assayed for gold and silver using 1-assay ton fire assay with an AA finish. Assays greater than 0.10 opt Au were re-assayed by 1-assay ton fire assay with a gravimetric finish. Strict QA/QC protocol was followed, including the insertion of standards and blanks on a regular basis in the assaying process.
Borealis Mineralization Estimate
A mineralization model was developed for the Borealis property and is detailed in the April 28, 2008 report, entitled
Technical Report on the Mineral Resources of the Borealis Gold Projected Located in Mineral County, Nevada, USA, compliant with National Instrument 43-101, which was furnished to the SEC as Exhibit 99.1 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed on May 12, 2008. The Technical Report details mineralization on the Borealis Property. The Technical Report states that the recommended course of action for Gryphon Gold is to increase gold mineralization by completing additional drilling primarily in the previously mined areas, to complete a technical report to determine the feasibility of near term production, and through continued drilling and exploration, delineate possible new mineralization on the Borealis Property. Cautionary Note to U.S. Investors: The Technical Report uses the terms "mineral resource," "measured mineral resource," "indicated mineral resource" and "inferred mineral resource". We advise investors that these terms are defined in and required to be disclosed by NI 43-101; however, these terms are not defined terms under Guide 7 and are normally not permitted to be used in reports and registration statements filed with the SEC. See “Cautionary Note to U.S. Investors Regarding Mineral Reserve and Resource Estimates” above.
The PA that was completed September 2, 2008 concluded that there is significant mineralization which “could support an open pit, heap leach gold and silver mine. Based on historical operational data and similar deposits and projects in the area, the field-proven process technology selected (heap leach and ADR plant, using carbon absorption) will be able to effectively produce gold and silver ore for sale.” The PA was furnished to the SEC as Exhibit 99.1 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed on October 10, 2008. The Technical Report details mineralization on the Borealis Property. Cautionary Note to U.S. Investors: The PA uses the terms "mineral resource," "measured mineral resource," "indicated mineral resource" and "inferred mineral resource". We advise investors that these terms are defined in and required to be disclosed by NI 43-101; however, these terms are not defined terms under Guide 7 and are normally not permitted to be used in reports and registration statements filed with the SEC. See “Cautionary Note to U.S. Investors Regarding Mineral Reserve and Resource Estimates” above.
The Pre-Feasibility Study as at September 17, 2009 was completed and authored by John R. Danio, P.E. of Denver, Colorado. The Pre-Feasibility Study was furnished to the SEC as Exhibit 99.2to our Form 8-K as filed on September 22, 2009 The Pre-Feasibility Study is based on open pit mining and heap leaching of oxide and mixed oxide ores that occur in and around previously mined open pits and re-leaching of ores that were mined and leached during prior operations. Telesto Nevada Inc. and the authors of the Pre-Feasibility Study recommended that the Borealis project be put into production. Cautionary Note to U.S. Investors: The Pre-Feasibility Study uses the terms "mineral resource," "measured mineral resource," "indicated mineral resource" and "inferred mineral resource". We advise investors that these terms are defined in and required to be disclosed by NI 43-101; however, these terms are not defined terms under Guide 7 and are normally not permitted to be used in reports and registration statements filed with the SEC. See “Cautionary Note to U.S. Investors Regarding Mineral Reserve and Resource Estimates” above.
Historical Mining and Metallurgical Operations
The historical mining operations processed both a run-of-mine ore and an ore that was crushed to a nominal 1 1/2-inch product as the primary feed material that was placed on the heap for leaching. The fines fraction was agglomerated with cement, mixed with the coarse fraction, and leached with sodium cyanide solution. Gold mineralization is finely disseminated and/or partially bonded with pyrite, and although there are very little ore mineralogy data available, historical operating reports suggest that some coarse gold may exist. Gold that is bound in pyrite or pyrite-silica is not easily recovered by simple heap leach cyanidation, however gold recovery in oxide ores is reported to average about 80% for the ore treated. There are no reports of carbonaceous refractory components within the old heap or dump materials. The previous mine operators employed a Merrill Crowe circuit to enhance ease of silver recovery, followed by a retort to remove mercury.
Laboratory testing subsequent to mine shut down in 1990 indicates that gold recoveries of 55 to 80 percent can be expected from remaining oxide material on the Borealis Property by heap leaching.
Based on limited test work, gold bearing sulfide material appears to respond to conventional flotation concentration and cyanidation of oxidized concentrates. In the laboratory testing, chemical oxidation and bioxidation treatment of the sulfide material yield a high level of oxidation and correspondingly high gold recoveries after cyanidation of the oxidized material. Aeration of concentrate slurries may be a suitable oxidation method for the sulfide material. A test plan to evaluate recovery options for the sulfide ores from the Borealis Project site is planned for 2008.
Exploration and Development
Our development and exploration plans are based on the recommendations contained on the Technical Report and are subject to our ability to obtain additional capital to fund such plans. These plans are outlined below:
Permitting Process
We intend to maintain the permits we have received that are necessary for mine start up. Maintaining the permits necessary for mine start up does not require us to complete a feasibility study. The principal permits were issued during calendar 2006, while ordinary course permits will be sought prior to the possible mine start up.
The following is a summary and status of the permits required for the Borealis Gold Project:
An Approved Plan of Operations from the USFS, Humboldt-Toiyabe National Forest has been received. The Environmental Assessment (EA) was approved for the Plan of Operations with a Finding of No Significant Impact (FONSI) on June 19, 2006. The Decision Notice was published on June 22 and 23, 2006 and is not appealable. Final revisions to the Plan of Operations were submitted to the USFS on June 23, 2006 and the USFS signed the Plan on June 29, 2006. The Plan of Operations can be implemented as soon as a reclamation bond of $4,205,377 is posted with the USFS.
A Water Pollution Control Permit (WPCP) from the NDEP-Bureau of Mining Regulation & Reclamation (BMRR) was approved and granted to BMC on January 28, 2006. The permit allows BMC to construct and operate a 10-million ton capacity heap leach pad and processing plant as a zero-discharge facility.
A Reclamation Permit from the NDEP-BMRR and reclamation bond amount were approved on June 23, 2006. This permit is the State of Nevada’s approval of the Plan of Operations and is effective with the posting of the reclamation bond with the USFS.
A Tentative Permanent Closure Plan to be administered by the NDEP-BMRR was submitted with the WPCP application and accepted by NDEP-BMRR. A Final Permanent Closure Plan will not need to be developed until 2 years prior to project closure.
NDEP-Bureau of Air Pollution Control (BAPC) issued the Air Quality Operating Permit on April 28, 2006 for the Borealis processing facilities. The State of Nevada recently(not so recent) adopted new regulations regarding mercury emissions, and an application was filed under this new State program on September 14, 2006, as a compliance order pursuant to the approved air quality permit. Because Gryphon was not able to move the project into construction within the air permit time frame, NDEP kept this old permit in force while a new air quality and mercury permit application was being developed and approved. This permit writing and review is nearing completion and the company does not expect any problems moving forward.
A Surface Area Disturbance Permit from the NDEP-BAPC was approved and granted to BMC on April 3, 2006 for disturbances associated with construction and mining activities.
The Storm Water Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP) has been prepared for the project. A Notice of Intent, filing fee, and the SWPPP will be submitted to the Bureau of Water Pollution Control (BWPC) 2 days prior to the start of mining operations to obtain coverage under the general National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit for Nevada mines.
A Spill Prevention, Control, and Countermeasure (SPCC) Plan, under the jurisdiction of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), will be prepared and implemented before starting operations. The SPCC Plan will provide methods for storing, transporting, and using petroleum products as well as emergency response measures in the event of a release.
A preliminary Emergency Release, Response and Contingency Plan (ERRCP) was submitted with the Plan of Operations. The ERRCP provides methods for storing, using, and transporting process chemicals on site as well as emergency response measures in the event of a release. A final ERRCP will be prepared prior to the start of leaching and processing activities. Both the USFS and the NDEP-BMRR require the ERRCP.
Threatened & Endangered Species Act: No known threatened or endangered species have been identified within or near the project area. A Biological Assessment and Biological Evaluation (BA/BE) and a Wildlife Specialist Report were approved by the USFS on June 6, 2006. These reports identified three USFS sensitive plants and two other plant species of concern within the project area. Mitigation measures were developed for these plants and incorporated into the EA and Plan of Operations. The USFS concluded that the project may impact individual plants and plant habitat but will not likely contribute to a trend towards listing or cause a loss of viability to the population or species.
Historical Preservation Act (Section 107): Consultation with the USFS and the State Historical Preservation Officer (SHPO) has occurred in conjunction with the preparation of the EA. The “Heritage Research Final Report, Gryphon Gold, USA, Mining and Exploration Project, Borealis Mine Area” was submitted to the USFS in March 2006. The report identifies prehistoric cultural resources located within and near the project area. This report was approved by the USFS and forwarded to SHPO for their review and comment on April 17, 2006. The SHPO approved the report in early May 2006. Mitigation measures consisting of avoidance and protection were incorporated into the EA and the Plan of Operations.
Water Rights: Water Rights have been granted by the Nevada Division of Water Resources (NDWR) for two production wells located approximately 3 miles south of the project, in the same vicinity as the supply wells from the previous mining operation. Based on historic well productivity records, this water right and point of diversion has the capacity and productivity to meet project needs. A second set of water rights were obtained for a site about 10 miles to the south of the planned operation as a contingency; however, this water right has been forfeited as it has been deemed extraneous.
Industrial Artificial Pond Permit: The Department of Wildlife, State of Nevada, has issued an Industrial Artificial Pond permit to use and store industrial waters in lined containers on the Borealis project site. This permit was granted on December 1, 2009 and expires on November 30, 2014.
In addition, the BLM has granted approval for drilling exploration holes in the areas of the West Pediment and the Central Pediment, which are on the Borealis property but outside of the central project area.
Drilling and Feasibility
We plan to continue our drilling and exploration program with the intent of locating additional sulfide and oxide gold mineralization on the Borealis property. The primary focus of the program will be within the previously disturbed area, the Graben zone and in the Central and Western Pediment areas. Once sufficient additional potential mineralization is discovered, we will assess possible methods of beginning production including the possible completion of a feasibility study.
Possible Future Mine Development
If warranted by the discovery and possible development of additional gold mineralization, project economics, and if we are successful in obtaining adequate additional capital, we may propose to build a mine operation on the Borealis site. Our plan will be based on the Plan of Operation filed with the U.S. Forest Service and could change based on additional information as it is acquired and analyzed in our ongoing engineering studies and feasibility study.
The Plan of Operation was the basis for the Pre-Feasibility Study as at September 17, 2009. The Pre-Feasibility Study presents an economic analysis, and provides capital expenditures, operating costs, ore grade, anticipated revenues, and projected cash flows. Cautionary Note to U.S. Investors: The Pre-Feasibility Study uses the terms "mineral resource," "measured mineral resource," "indicated mineral resource" and "inferred mineral resource". We advise investors that these terms are defined in and required to be disclosed by NI 43-101; however, these terms are not defined terms under Guide 7 and are normally not permitted to be used in reports and registration statements filed with the SEC. See “Cautionary Note to U.S. Investors Regarding Mineral Reserve and Resource Estimates” above.
Mineralized Material Expansion and DrillingProgram
We have undertaken a systematic district scale drilling program designed to discover and delineate large gold deposits within the greater Borealis Property, outside of the known mineral deposits, which will focus along known mineralized trends that project into untested gravel-covered areas with coincident geophysical anomalies. The greatest potential in the district lies beneath a large gravel-covered area at the mountain front with several potential blind deposits (with no surface expression). The Graben zone is an example of this type of deposit, and other high-potential targets include Rainbow Ridge/Tough Hills, Sunset Wash, Lucky Boy, and others yet to be named generally within the areas referred to as the Central and Western Pediments. To date we have drilled and assayed 206 holes as part of the district wide exploration program.
In addition to the district program, the Borealis property embraces numerous areas with potential for discovery of mineable gold deposits. The defined target areas can be grouped into categories based on our expectation for deposit expansion or potential for discovery. Past emphasis was focused on targets which are the extensions of previously mined deposits, specifically within the previously disturbed areas the East Ridge-Gold View-Northeast Ridge mineralized trend, and around the margins of the Borealis, Freedom Flats, and Deep Ore Flats/Polaris deposits. Each has the potential to add to the material that can be developed as part of the initial mine plan. Drilling programs from 2005 through 2007 were completed primarily in areas where mineralization is known to exist. In addition to advancing existing mineralization to a higher level of confidence, this drilling program has further information gathering objectives for metallurgical assessment, waste characterization, and hydrological analyses that are required in support of our operating permit applications, environmental assessment, and engineering design. Results from drilling of heap leachable material will be incorporated into the feasibility study, should a feasibility study be completed.
Planned activities and expenditures include both field and compilation geology, geophysics, geochemistry, permitting and claim maintenance, road construction and drill-site preparation, reverse circulation (RC) and core drilling, drill-hole assaying, sampling protocol studies and assay quality control, preliminary metallurgical testing, and database management. We estimate that nearly 50% of the budget would be spent directly on drilling (mostly on RC drilling) with approximately 20% on geologists, 10% on assaying, and the remainder divided among the other items. The budget is expected to be sufficient to discover and delineate one or more deposits, but additional funding will be required for detailed development drilling and other development activities.
The names of deposits and targets on the Borealis Property are shown on the map below. The map also shows the boundary of the claim holdings that comprise the Borealis Property.
(Source: Gryphon Gold, 2005)
United States Mining Laws
Mining in the State of Nevada is subject to federal, state and local law. Three types of laws are of particular importance to the Borealis Property: those affecting land ownership and mining rights; those regulating mining operations; and those dealing with the environment.
The Borealis Property is situated on lands owned by the United States (Federal Lands). Borealis Mining, as the owner or lessee of the unpatented mining claims, has the right to conduct mining operations on the lands subject to the prior procurement of required operating permits and approvals, compliance with the terms and conditions of the mining lease, and compliance with applicable federal, state, and local laws, regulations and ordinances. On Federal Lands, mining rights are governed by the General Mining Law of 1872 as amended, 30 U.S.C. §§ 21-161 (various sections), which allows the location of mining claims on certain Federal Lands upon the discovery of a valuable mineral deposit and proper compliance with claim location requirements. A valid mining claim provides the holder with the right to conduct mining operations for the removal of locatable minerals, subject to compliance with the General Mining Law and Nevada state law governing the staking and registration of mining claims, as well as compliance with various federal, state and local operating and environmental laws, regulations and ordinances. Historically, the owner of an unpatented mining claim could, upon strict compliance with legal requirements, file a patent application to obtain full fee title to the surface and mineral rights within the claim; however, continuing Congressional moratoriums have precluded new mining claim patent applications since 1993.
The operation of mines is governed by both federal and state laws. Part of the Borealis Property is situated within the Toiyabe National Forest, and that part is administered by the U.S. Forest Service. The rest of the Borealis Property is administered by the Bureau of Land Management (BLM). In general, the federal laws that govern mining claim location and maintenance and mining operations on Federal Lands, including the Borealis Property, are administered by the BLM. The Forest Service is concerned with surface land use, disturbances and rights-of-way on Federal Lands that it manages. Additional federal laws, such as those governing the purchase, transport or storage of explosives, and those governing mine safety and health, also apply. Various permits or approvals from the BLM and other federal agencies will be needed before any mining operations on the Borealis Property can begin.
The State of Nevada likewise requires various permits and approvals before mining operations can begin, although the state and federal regulatory agencies usually cooperate to minimize duplication of permitting efforts. Among other things, a detailed reclamation plan must be prepared and approved, with bonding in the amount of projected reclamation costs. The bond is used to ensure that proper reclamation takes place, and the bond will not be released until that time. The bond amount for a large mining operation is significant. Local jurisdictions (such as Mineral County) may also impose permitting requirements (such as conditional use permits or zoning approvals).
Mining activities on the Borealis Property are subject also to various environmental laws, both federal and state, including but not limited to the federal National Environmental Policy Act, the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, the Resource Recovery and Conservation Act, the Clean Water Act, the Clean Air Act and the Endangered Species Act, and certain Nevada state laws governing the discharge of pollutants and the use and discharge of water. Various permits from federal and state agencies are required under many of these laws. See, “Permitting Requirements,” below. Local laws and ordinances may also apply to such activities as waste disposal, road use and noise levels.
Permitting
Permit Acquisition and Fundamental Environmental Permitting Considerations
In 2004 we initiated a plan to obtain the required principal environmental operating permits in anticipation of a possible mine start-up.
A staged permit acquisition program is in progress. The first permitting stage, started in the fall of 2003, has been completed. Permits obtained at that time authorized exploration activities needed to prove the mineral mineralization, condemn the heap sites and support infrastructure, and obtain environmental baseline data to support the permitting packages. A second stage of application for exploration drilling permits was submitted in December 2004 and approval was obtained in May 2005. A Plan of Operations for a new mine was submitted in August 2004 to the U.S. Forest Service and Nevada State agencies and approval was received in the second quarter of 2006. A Water Pollution Control Permit application for the reopening and expansion of the mine was submitted to the Nevada Bureau of Mining Regulation and Reclamation in January 2005. The permit was granted in January 2006. Future exploration activities and mine expansion initiatives will be included in applications for subsequent approvals on a case-by-case and as-needed basis.
The approved Plan of Operation focuses on the approximately 460 acre area previously disturbed by mining operations. Deposits within this boundary, subject to permit applications generally, include the oxidized and partially oxidized portions of Borealis, Deep Ore Flats (also known as Polaris), East Ridge, Freedom Flats, and Northeast Ridge which are amenable to a conventional hydrometallurgical gold recovery process such as heap leaching. Also included in the Plan of Operations is the option for development of underground access to the Graben deposit to be used for exploration and future development activities, although no production plan has been submitted for consideration in this mineralized zone at this date. Crocodile Ridge, Middle Ridge, and other deposits within the study area boundaries of the Borealis Property will be added to the permit applications if warranted based on ongoing engineering and in-fill drilling results.
Permitting Process Overview
The development, operation, closure and reclamation of mining projects in the United States require numerous notifications, permits, authorizations and public agency decisions. This section does not attempt to exhaustively identify all of the permits and authorizations that need to be gained, but instead focuses on those that are considered to be the main efforts that are on the critical path for possible project start-up.
Environmental Inventories
There are certain environmental evaluations that routinely must be completed in order to provide the information against which project impacts are measured. Both the U.S. Forest Service and the Nevada Bureau of Mining Regulation and Reclamation (BMRR) have requirements to profile existing conditions and to evaluate what effects will result from implementing the project plans on those mineral resources.
Background information on geology, air quality, soils, biology, water resources, social and economic conditions, and cultural resources were assembled for us and submitted to the appropriate regulatory agency.
Permitting Requirements
U.S. Forest Service Requirements
The Bridgeport Ranger District of the U.S. Forest Service is the lead agency regulating mining and reclamation activities at the Borealis Property. The permitting process with the U.S. Forest Service approved our Plan of Operations in the second quarter of 2006, pursuant to the requirements of 36 CFR Part 228, Subpart A. Our Plan of Operations was filed in August 2004 describing the project plans in a step-by-step process. The Plan of Operations describes the development of the deposits identified in the Technical Report and recognizes and anticipates the effects of market impacts such as reductions or increases in gold price, and describes the measures that will be taken to adjust for these changing conditions. The emphasis of the Plan of Operations is on defining the spatial and temporal aspects, as they will affect the land that is managed by the agency. The Plan of Operations also describes the plans to reclaim the site, and includes an estimate of the cost to accomplish that reclamation. This cost estimate is the first step toward establishing the reclamation surety for the site.
In order to satisfy the reclamation surety requirements of the U.S. Forest Service, we will consider obtaining an insurance policy for its benefit. This policy, if obtained on terms acceptable to us, would require us to pay into a “commutation” account of the insurer the agreed cost of the initial future reclamation work. The initial amount covered under the policy will be funded by a deposit into the “commutation” account, in an amount to be negotiated. The amount covered by the policy is expected to increase as reclamation costs increase due to expanded mining related disturbances. This additional policy coverage is expected to be funded from mining revenue once the mine is in operation. Once funded, the account will be available to pay for concurrent and final reclamation expenses as they are incurred. The policy is expected to provide us a mechanism to manage the overall cost of reclamation for a known cost for the entire life of mine and provide financial assurance required by the U.S. Forest Service. We would propose to acquire the policy once the project is permitted and before commencement of construction.
The National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) requires that any decision made by a Federal agency must consider the environmental effects of that decision. The USFS will decide whether or not there is a decision to be made, and whether that decision is significant or not. If there is no decision to be made, as in the instance of Categorical Exclusions (CE), the project can proceed with notification only. CE's are allowed when surface disturbances are limited to less than one mile of new road building. If a decision must be made, an environmental impact evaluation is completed and from that analysis, a determination of whether the environmental impact is significant or not. If the determination is a “finding of no significant impact” (FONSI), then the agency is authorized to approve the plan based on the Environmental Assessment (EA) findings. If the decision is that the impacts are in fact significant, then an Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) is required to arrive at the final decision. There is a significantly increased time period for review and public comment for an EIS versus an EA. Approvals of Gryphon Gold's site exploration activities to date were authorized under a CE.
The USFS Bridgeport Ranger District (District) determined that preparation of an Environmental Assessment (EA) was necessary to comply with the requirements of the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA). The USFS and we mutually agreed to have Knight Piesold and Co. (KPCO), a third-party NEPA contractor, prepare the EA. Comments from a variety of stakeholders have been solicited. These comments were incorporated into a Modified Plan of Operations, which includes some changes from the initial Plan of Operations submitted to account for updated operating plans and required mitigation measures to better protect the environment.
At the completion of the NEPA process and decision, the reclamation surety must be posted with the USFS prior to any surface disturbance on site. The reclamation cost estimate provided in the Plan of Operations will be reviewed and refined by the agency and an acceptable amount agreed upon among the U.S. Forest Service, BMRR and us.
Nevada Division of Water Resources Requirements
Development of the Borealis Property will involve significant water demand in an arid region where the water basin has been over-appropriated and for which project water rights have been withdrawn. Successful mining and processing will require careful control of project water and efficient reclamation of project solutions back into the leaching process.
The Nevada Division of Water Resources (NDWR) is the responsible agency for granting water rights permits. The basin from which water rights could be appropriated is the same basin that was the water supply for the mining activities at Borealis during the 1980‘s and early 1990‘s. Although this basin appears to be over allocated to various users, many of these rights go unused, so it may be possible to transfer existing appropriations to the project if necessary.
We believe that water rights granted to us by the NDWR are sufficient to conduct planned operations. A wellfield to perfect this water supply has not yet been tested or developed.
NDEP Bureau of Mining Regulation and Reclamation Requirements
The Nevada Division of Environmental Protection, Bureau of Mining Regulation and Reclamation (BMRR) regulates mining activities within the state including water pollution control and reclamation.
The heap leach and process solution ponds are presented in the water pollution control permit application that was filed in January 2004. The permit application package includes the engineering design report for the heap and ponds, certified by a Nevada registered professional engineer. In addition to the engineering report, operating plans describing the mineral processing circuit, fluid management plan, monitoring plans, emergency response plan, temporary closure plan and tentative permanent closure plan were presented. The Water Pollution Control Permit was issued on January 28, 2006.
BMRR also administers and enforces the requirements relating to the reclamation of land subject to mining or exploration projects.
A Reclamation Plan that contains the identical information as was contained in the Plan of Operations was submitted to the BMRR in August 2004. The Reclamation Plan was approved during the second quarter of 2006.
We will be required to post a reclamation bond from a financial institution or otherwise set aside a corresponding amount for the benefit of BMRR. We anticipate that BMRR will accept the reclamation bond we post for the benefit of the U.S. Forest Service.
Nevada Division of Environmental Protection - Bureau of Air Quality Requirements
Prior to the commencement of construction activities, an air quality permit will be necessary. The Nevada Bureau of Air Quality (BAQ) regulations state that a process flow diagram must be generated to communicate the technical aspects of the process/activity and determine which class of permit will be required. We have prepared the required process flow diagram and submitted our permit application. On April 28, 2006 the Class II air quality permit was issued by BAQ. Because Gryphon was not able to move the project into construction within the air permit time frame, NDEP kept this old permit in force while a new air quality and mercury permit application was being developed and approved. This permit writing and review is nearing completion and the company does not expect any problems moving forward.
United States Regulatory Matters
General
All of our exploration activities in the United States are subject to regulation by governmental agencies under various mining and environmental laws. The nature and scope of regulation depends on a variety of factors, including the type of activities being conducted, the ownership status of land on which the operations are located, the nature of the resources affected, the states in which the operations are located, the delegation of federal air and water-pollution control and other programs to state agencies, and the structure and organization of state and local permitting agencies. We believe that we are in substantial compliance with all such applicable laws and regulations. While these laws and regulations govern how we conduct many aspects of our business, we do not believe that they will have a material adverse effect on our operations or financial condition. We evaluate our projects in light of the cost and impact of regulations on the proposed activity, and evaluate new laws and regulations as they develop to determine the impact on, and changes necessary to, our operations.
Generally, compliance with environmental and related laws and regulations requires us to obtain permits issued by regulatory agencies and to file various reports and keep records of our operations. Some permits require periodic renewal or review of their conditions and may be subject to a public review process during which opposition to our proposed operations may be encountered.
U.S. Federal and State Environmental Law
Our past and future activities in the United States may cause us to be subject to liability under various federal and state laws. Proposed mining activities on federal land trigger regulations promulgated by the U.S. Forest Service (USFS), the Bureau of Land Management (BLM), and potentially other federal agencies, depending on the nature and scope of the impacts. For operations on federal public lands administered by the BLM that disturb more than five acres, an operator must submit a Plan of Operations to BLM. On USFS-administered lands, the USFS requires the submission of a notice for all mining operations, regardless of size, and a Plan of Operations if the USFS determines that there will be any “significant” disturbance of the surface.
The Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980, as amended (CERCLA), imposes strict, joint, and several liability on parties associated with releases or threats of releases of hazardous substances. Liable parties include, among others, the current owners and operators of facilities at which hazardous substances were disposed or released into the environment and past owners and operators of properties who owned such properties at the time of such disposal or release. This liability could include response costs for removing or remediating the release and damages to natural resources. We are unaware of any reason why our undeveloped properties would currently give rise to any potential CERCLA liability. We cannot predict the likelihood of future CERCLA liability with respect to our properties or surrounding areas that have been affected by historic mining operations.
Under the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA) and related state laws, mining companies may incur costs for generating, transporting, treating, storing, or disposing of hazardous or solid wastes associated with certain mining-related activities. RCRA costs may also include corrective action or clean up costs.
Mining operations may produce air emissions, including fugitive dust and other air pollutants, from stationary equipment, such as crushers and storage facilities, and from mobile sources such as trucks and heavy construction equipment. All of these sources are subject to review, monitoring, permitting, and/or control requirements under the federal Clean Air Act and related state air quality laws. Air quality permitting rules may impose limitations on our production levels or create additional capital expenditures in order to comply with the permitting conditions.
Under the federal Clean Water Act and delegated state water-quality programs, point-source discharges into “Waters of the State” are regulated by the National Pollution Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) program. Section 404 of the Clean Water Act regulates the discharge of dredge and fill material into “Waters of the United States,” including wetlands. Stormwater discharges also are regulated and permitted under that statute. All of those programs may impose permitting and other requirements on our operations.
The National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) requires an assessment of the environmental impacts of “major” federal actions. The “federal action” requirement can be satisfied if the project involves federal land or if the federal government provides financing or permitting approvals. NEPA does not establish any substantive standards. It merely requires the analysis of any potential impact. The scope of the assessment process depends on the size of the project. An “Environmental Assessment” (EA) may be adequate for smaller projects. An Environmental Impact Statement (EIS), which is much more detailed and broader in scope than an EA, is required for larger projects. NEPA compliance requirements for any of our proposed projects could result in additional costs or delays.
The Endangered Species Act (ESA) is administered by the U.S. Department of Interior's U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service. The purpose of the ESA is to conserve and recover listed endangered and threatened species and their habitat. Under the ESA, “endangered” means that a species is in danger of extinction throughout all or a significant portion of its range. “Threatened” means that a species is likely to become endangered within the foreseeable future. Under the ESA, it is unlawful to “take” a listed species, which can include harassing or harming members of such species or significantly modifying their habitat. We conduct wildlife and plant inventories as required as part of the environmental assessment process prior to initiating exploration projects. We currently are unaware of any endangered species issues at any of our projects that would have a material adverse effect on our operations. Future identification of endangered species or habitat in our project areas may delay or adversely affect our operations.
We are committed to fulfilling our requirements under applicable environmental laws and regulations. These laws and regulations are continually changing and, as a general matter, are becoming more restrictive. Our policy is to conduct our business in a manner that safeguards public health and mitigates the environmental effects of our business activities. To comply with these laws and regulations, we have made, and in the future may be required to make, capital and operating expenditures.
U.S. Federal and State Reclamation Requirements
We are subject to land reclamation requirements under state and federal law, which generally are implemented through reclamation permits that apply to exploration activities. These requirements often mandate concurrent reclamation and require the posting of reclamation bonds or other financial assurance sufficient to guarantee the cost of reclamation. If reclamation obligations are not met, the designated agency could draw on these bonds and letters of credit to fund expenditures for reclamation requirements.
Reclamation requirements generally include stabilizing, contouring and re-vegetating disturbed lands, controlling drainage from portals and waste rock dumps, removing roads and structures, neutralizing or removing process solutions, monitoring groundwater at the mining site, and maintaining visual aesthetics. We believe that we currently are in substantial compliance with and are committed to maintaining all of our financial assurance and reclamation obligations pursuant to our permits and applicable laws.
Nevada Eagle Properties
Subsequent to the Company’s year-end, on April 23, 2010, we entered into a Membership Interest Purchase Agreement with Fronteer Development (USA) Inc. (“Fronteer”) pursuant to which we sold our wholly-owned subsidiary Nevada Eagle Resources to Fronteer for $4.75 million. The Nevada Eagle holdings consisted of approximately 53 prospective gold properties covering over 70 square miles of gold trends in Nevada. The Company determined to sell Nevada Eagle to Fronteer in order to focus its efforts on the exploration and development of its Borealis Gold Project. For more information regarding the disposition of Nevada Eagle to Fronteer, see the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on April 27, 2010.
ITEM 3.