Item 2.
Properties
Our portfolio consisted of twelve properties totaling 627,293 square feet as of December 31, 2004. These properties are 98% occupied and had a weighted-average remaining lease term of approximately 12 years based on the square footage of the properties as of December 31, 2004. All of our properties are occupied by U.S. government agencies. We do not intend to purchase any properties that are primarily occupied by non-governmental tenants.
Our portfolio as of December 31, 2004 consisted of the following:
As used in the table above and throughout this report, “Gross Annualized Rent” is determined by multiplying December 2004 rents by 12 and “Rent Per Square Foot” is determined by dividing the Gross Annualized Rent by the leased square footage of the property.
Bakersfield, California. The Bakersfield DEA property is 100% leased to the federal government and is occupied by the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration. This property houses the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration’s regional headquarters. The property consists of an approximately 2.10 acre parcel with a two story office building containing 9,800 leased square feet of office and related space. The building was completed in 2000.
The Bakersfield DEA property is leased pursuant to a modified gross lease, which will expire on November 27, 2010, unless terminated pursuant to an early termination clause on November 27, 2008. The government has the right to assign the lease to any party and be relieved from all obligations under the lease, other than unpaid rent and other liabilities outstanding on the date of the assignment, subject to our prior written consent, which consent may not be unreasonably withheld. Included as rent is a negotiated amount for the building’s operating costs, and base year real estate taxes. The government pays any increase over the base year real estate taxes through a direct dollar-for-dollar reimbursement payment to us. The lease also provides for an annual inflation adjustment in the portion of rent attributable to operating costs, which is measured by the U.S. Department of Labor revised consumer price index.
We acquired the Bakersfield DEA property in January 2003 for $2.4 million, or approximately $243 per leased square foot. We financed the acquisition through a $1.6 million loan from Genesis, which we repaid in February 2004. In February 2005, we obtained financing for approximately $1.4 million from CW Capital, which matures on March 1, 2020. The unpaid principal balance of the note bears interest at a rate of 5.867% per annum. Monthly payments are amortized on a 30-year schedule, with a balloon payment due March 1, 2020.
Charleston, West Virginia. The Charleston SSA property is 100% leased by the federal government and is occupied by the U.S. Department of Labor, the U.S. Social Security Administration and related state agencies. This property houses the Social Security Administration’s regional administrative office. The property is an approximately 1.68 acre parcel with a five story building containing 90,050 leased square feet of office and related space. The building was completed in 1959 and completely renovated to core and shell in 1999.
The Charleston SSA property is leased pursuant to a modified gross lease, which will expire on December 9, 2019. The government has the right to assign the lease to any party and be relieved from all obligations under the lease, other than unpaid rent and other liabilities outstanding on the date of the assignment, subject to our prior written consent, which consent may not be unreasonably withheld. Included as rent is a negotiated amount for the building’s operating costs, and base year real estate taxes. The government pays any increase over the base year real estate taxes through a direct dollar-for-dollar reimbursement payment to us. The lease also provides for an annual inflation adjustment in the portion of rent
attributable to operating costs, which is measured by the U.S. Department of Labor revised consumer price index.
We acquired the Charleston SSA property in April 2003 for $18.4 million, or approximately $205 per leased square foot. We financed the acquisition through a $14.0 million loan from LaSalle Bank, which matures on May 1, 2013. The unpaid principal balance of the note bears interest at a rate of 5.74% per annum. Monthly payments are amortized on a 30-year schedule, with a balloon payment due May 1, 2013. We also drew $2.8 million against our existing line of credit, which carries a variable interest rate based on the lender’s prime rate plus 50 basis points, which rate was 4.5% as of December 31, 2003. We repaid this debt in February 2004.
Clarksburg, West Virginia. The Clarksburg GSA property is 100% leased by the federal government and is occupied by the U.S. Social Security Administration, the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration, the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the U.S. Department of Justice. The property is an approximately 1.02 acre parcel with a three story building containing 55,443 leased square feet of office and related space. The building was completed in 1998.
The Clarksburg GSA property is leased pursuant to a modified gross lease, which will expire on January 19, 2019, unless terminated pursuant to an early termination clause on January 19, 2016. The government has the right to assign the lease to any party and be relieved from all obligations under the lease, other than unpaid rent and other liabilities outstanding on the date of the assignment, subject to our prior written consent, which consent may not be unreasonably withheld. Included as rent is a negotiated amount for the building’s operating costs, and base year real estate taxes. The government pays any increase over the base year real estate taxes through a direct dollar-for-dollar reimbursement payment to us. The lease also provides for an annual inflation adjustment in the portion of rent attributable to operating costs, which is measured by the U.S. Department of Labor revised consumer price index.
We acquired the Clarksburg GSA property in April 2003 for $11.0 million, or approximately $199 per leased square foot. We financed the acquisition through a $8.3 million loan from LaSalle Bank, which matures on May 1, 2013. The unpaid principal balance of the note bears interest at a rate of 5.74% per annum. Monthly payments are amortized on a 30-year schedule, with a balloon payment due May 1, 2013.
Kingsport, Tennessee. The Kingsport SSA property is 100% leased by the federal government and is occupied by the U.S. Social Security Administration. This property houses the Social Security Administration’s regional administrative office. The property is an approximately 2.334 acre parcel with a single story building containing 22,848 leased square feet of office and related space. The building was completed in 1999.
The Kingsport SSA property is leased pursuant to a modified gross lease, which will expire on October 31, 2014, unless terminated pursuant to an early termination clause on October 31, 2009. The government has the right to assign the lease to any party and be relieved from all obligations under the lease, other than unpaid rent and other liabilities outstanding on the date of the assignment, subject to our prior written consent, which consent may not be unreasonably withheld. Included as rent is a negotiated amount for the building’s operating costs, and base year real estate taxes. The government pays any increase over the base year real estate taxes through a direct dollar-for-dollar reimbursement payment to us. The lease also provides for an annual inflation adjustment in the portion of rent attributable to operating costs, which is measured by the U.S. Department of Labor revised consumer price index.
We acquired the Kingsport SSA property in April 2003 for $3.0 million, or approximately $131 per leased square foot. We financed the acquisition through the assumption of the seller’s first mortgage loan in the amount of $2.3 million from Bank of America, which matures on April 1, 2010 and an unsecured loan issued by the seller in the amount of $0.2 million. In July 2004 we repaid the unsecured loan. We also drew $0.3 million against our existing line of credit on April 30, 2003 to fund a portion of the purchase price, which was repaid in May 2003. The unpaid principal balance of the first mortgage loan bears interest at a rate of 8.23% per annum, with monthly payments being amortized on a 25-year schedule, and has a balloon payment due April 1, 2010.
Mineral Wells, West Virginia. The Mineral Wells BPD property is 100% leased by the federal government and is occupied by the U.S. Bureau of Public Debt. The property is an approximately 7.51 acre parcel with a single story building containing 38,324 leased square feet of office and related space. The building was completed in 2003.
The Mineral Wells BPD property is leased pursuant to a modified gross lease, which will expire on September 30, 2017, unless terminated pursuant to an early termination clause on September 30, 2012. The government has the right to assign the lease to any party and be relieved from all obligations under the lease, other than unpaid rent and other liabilities outstanding on the date of the assignment, subject to our prior written consent, which consent may not be unreasonably withheld. Included as rent is a negotiated amount for the building’s operating costs, and base year real estate taxes. The government pays any increase over the base year real estate taxes through a direct dollar-for-dollar reimbursement payment to us. The lease also provides for an annual inflation adjustment in the portion of rent attributable to operating costs, which is measured by the U.S. Department of Labor revised consumer price index.
We acquired the Mineral Wells BPD property in March 2004 for $5.1 million in cash, or approximately $133 per leased square foot.
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. The Pittsburgh FBI property is 100% leased by the federal government and is occupied by the U.S. Federal Bureau of Investigation. The property consists of an approximately 4.573 acre parcel with a four story building containing 87,178 leased square feet of office and related space. The building was completed in 2001.
The Pittsburgh FBI property is leased pursuant to a modified gross lease, which will expire on October 5, 2016. The government has the right to assign the lease to any party and be relieved from all obligations under the lease, other than unpaid rent and other liabilities outstanding on the date of the assignment, subject to our prior written consent, which consent may not be unreasonably withheld. Included as rent is a negotiated amount for the building’s operating costs, and base year real estate taxes. The government pays any increase over the base year real estate taxes through a direct dollar-for-dollar reimbursement payment to us. The lease also provides for an annual inflation adjustment in the portion of rent attributable to operating costs, which is measured by the U.S. Department of Labor revised consumer price index.
We acquired the Pittsburgh FBI property in May 2004 for $28.7 million, or approximately $329 per leased square foot. We financed the acquisition in July 2004 through a $21.0 million loan from PNC Bank, which matures on August 1, 2009. The unpaid principal balance of the note bears interest at a rate of 5.5% per annum. Monthly payments are amortized on a 26-year schedule, with a balloon payment due on August 1, 2009.
Lenexa, Kansas. The Lenexa FDA property is 100% leased by the federal government and is occupied by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration. The property consists of an approximately 5.05 acre parcel with two single story buildings containing a total of 53,500 leased square feet of office and laboratory space. The buildings were completed in 1991.
The Lenexa FDA property is leased pursuant to a modified gross lease, which will expire on June 21, 2012. The government has the right to assign the lease to any party and be relieved from all obligations under the lease, other than unpaid rent and other liabilities outstanding on the date of the assignment, subject to our prior written consent, which consent may not be unreasonably withheld. Included as rent is a negotiated amount for the building’s operating costs, and base year real estate taxes. The government pays any increase over the base year real estate taxes through a direct dollar-for-dollar reimbursement payment to us. The lease also provides for an annual inflation adjustment in the portion of rent attributable to operating costs, which is measured by the U.S. Department of Labor revised consumer price index.
We acquired the Lenexa FDA property in June 2004 for $10.5 million, or approximately $197 per leased square foot. We financed the acquisition in July 2004 through an $8.0 million loan from Wachovia, which matures on August 11, 2009. The unpaid principal balance of the note bears interest at a rate of 5.44% per annum. Monthly payments are amortized on a 27-year schedule, with a balloon payment due August 11, 2009.
Baton Rouge, Louisiana. The Baton Rouge VA property is 100% leased by the federal government and is occupied by a Veterans Administration outpatient clinic. The property consists of an approximately 4.77 acre parcel with a single story building containing 30,000 leased square feet of office and related space. The building was completed in 2004.
The Baton Rouge VA property is leased pursuant to a modified gross lease, which will expire on June 3, 2019. The government has the right to assign the lease to any party and be relieved from all obligations under the lease, other than unpaid rent and other liabilities outstanding on the date of the assignment, subject to our prior written consent, which consent may not be unreasonably withheld. Included as rent is a negotiated amount for the building’s operating costs, and base year real estate taxes. The government pays any increase over the base year real estate taxes through a direct dollar-for-dollar reimbursement payment to us. The lease also provides for an annual inflation adjustment in the portion of rent attributable to operating costs, which is measured by the U.S. Department of Labor revised consumer price index.
We acquired the Baton Rouge VA property in September 2004 for $5.9 million, or approximately $198 per leased square foot. In February 2005 we obtained financing for approximately $4.8 million from CW Capital, which matures on March 1, 2020. The unpaid principal balance of the note bears interest at a rate of 5.867% per annum. Monthly payments are amortized on a 30-year schedule, with a balloon payment due March 1, 2020.
Charleston, South Carolina. The Charleston Federal Courthouse property is 100% leased by the federal government and is occupied by Federal District Court. The property consists of an approximately 0.305 acre parcel with a four story building containing 44,250 leased square feet of office and related space. The building was completed in 1999.
The Charleston Federal Courthouse property is leased pursuant to a modified net lease, which will expire on July 31, 2019. The government has the right to assign the lease to any party and be relieved from all obligations under the lease, other than unpaid rent and other liabilities outstanding on the date of the assignment, subject to our prior written consent, which consent may not be unreasonably withheld. We are responsible for the building’s roof and structural repair, property insurance, and base year real estate taxes. The government pays all operating expenses and any increase over the base year real estate taxes through a direct dollar-for-dollar reimbursement payment to us.
We acquired the Charleston Federal Courthouse property in September 2004 for $19.3 million, or approximately $436 per leased square foot. In February 2005 we obtained financing for approximately $14.6 million from CW Capital, which matures on March 1, 2020. The unpaid principal balance of the note bears interest at a rate of 5.867% per annum. Monthly payments are amortized on a 30-year schedule, with a balloon payment due March 1, 2020.
College Park, Maryland. The College Park FDA property consists of an approximately 4.3811 acre parcel with a three story building containing 79,000 square feet of office and laboratory space of which 65,760 is leased by the federal government and is occupied by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration. The remaining 13,240 square feet is currently vacant. The building was completed in 2004.
The College Park FDA property is leased pursuant to a modified gross lease, which will expire on August 31, 2014. The government has the right to assign the lease to any party and be relieved from all obligations under the lease, other than unpaid rent and other liabilities outstanding on the date of the assignment, subject to our prior written consent, which consent may not be unreasonably withheld. Included as rent is a negotiated amount for the building’s operating costs, and base year real estate taxes. The government pays any increase over the base year real estate taxes through a direct dollar-for-dollar reimbursement payment to us. The lease also provides for an annual inflation adjustment in the portion of rent attributable to operating costs, which is measured by the U.S. Department of Labor revised consumer price index.
We acquired the College Park FDA property in October 2004 for $22.9 million, or approximately $290 per square foot. We financed the acquisition through the assumption of the seller’s first mortgage loan in the amount of $16.7 million loan from Capital Realty, which matures on October 26, 2026. The unpaid
principal balance of the first mortgage loan bears interest at a rate of 6.75% per annum, with monthly payments being amortized on a 22-year schedule.
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. The Pittsburgh USCIS property is 100% leased by the federal government and is occupied by the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services. The property consists of an approximately 2.465 acre parcel with a three story building containing 36,153 leased square feet of office and related space. The building was completed in 2004.
The Pittsburgh USCIS property is leased pursuant to a modified gross lease, which will expire on February 26, 2014. The government has the right to assign the lease to any party and be relieved from all obligations under the lease, other than unpaid rent and other liabilities outstanding on the date of the assignment, subject to our prior written consent, which consent may not be unreasonably withheld. Included as rent is a negotiated amount for the building’s operating costs, and base year real estate taxes. The government pays any increase over the base year real estate taxes through a direct dollar-for-dollar reimbursement payment to us. The lease also provides for an annual inflation adjustment in the portion of rent attributable to operating costs, which is measured by the U.S. Department of Labor revised consumer price index.
We acquired the Pittsburgh USCIS property in October 2004 for $10.6 million, or approximately $294 per leased square foot. We financed the acquisition through a $8.0 million loan from Nomura Credit, which matures on December 11, 2011. The unpaid principal balance of the note bears interest at a rate of 5.13% per annum. Monthly payments are amortized on a 25-year schedule, with a balloon payment due December 11, 2011.
Parkersburg, West Virginia. The Parkersburg BPD property is 100% leased by the federal government and is occupied by the U.S. Bureau of Public Debt. The property consists of an approximately 6.12 acre parcel with a five story building containing 80,657 leased square feet of office and related space. The building was completed in 2004. The federal government has exercised a consolidation option whereby the Company will expand the Parkersburg Property by an additional 102,000 square feet bringing the total complex to approximately 183,000 leased square feet. The cost of the expansion to the Property will be approximately $22.5 million and will be paid over the term of the expansion scheduled for completion in first half of 2006.
The Parkersburg BPD property is leased pursuant to a modified gross lease, which will expire on August 31, 2019. Upon the completion of the expansion described above, the lease term for the entire building will be extended to 15 years from the date of acceptance of the expansion. The government has the right to assign the lease to any party and be relieved from all obligations under the lease, other than unpaid rent and other liabilities outstanding on the date of the assignment, subject to our prior written consent, which consent may not be unreasonably withheld. Included as rent is a negotiated amount for the building’s operating costs, and base year real estate taxes. The government pays any increase over the base year real estate taxes through a direct dollar-for-dollar reimbursement payment to us. The lease also provides for an annual inflation adjustment in the portion of rent attributable to operating costs, which is measured by the U.S. Department of Labor revised consumer price index.
We acquired the Parkersburg BPD property in November 2004 for $20.2 million in cash, or approximately $251 per leased square foot.
Other Considerations
We believe that all of the properties described above are maintained in good condition and are adequately covered by insurance.
Item 3.