Item 2 “Properties” for a listing of locations of our stores. We have evaluated the Securities and Exchange Commission’s (SEC) recently issued clarification of lease accounting and we believe that we have accounted for our limited number of lease agreements appropriately.
Construction and Store Development. Currently, the average initial net investment to construct a large-format destination retail store ranges from approximately $40 million to $80 million depending on the size of the store, the location and the amount of public improvements necessary. This includes the costs of real estate, site work, public improvements such as utilities and roads, buildings, fixtures (including taxidermy) and inventory. As we continue to open new destination retail stores, we believe that the layout for our future destination retail stores will reflect improvements in our construction processes, materials and fixtures, merchandise layout and store design. These improvements may further enhance the appeal of our destination retail stores to our customers and lower our overall costs. Historically, in connection with the acquisition of land for our new stores, we have attempted to acquire and develop additional land for use by complementary businesses, such as hotels and restaurants, which are adjacent to our destination retail stores. We intend to continue to acquire, develop and sell additional land adjacent to some of our future destination retail stores. We have previously aimed to obtain tailored economic development arrangements from local and state governments where our destination retail stores are located and we expect to obtain similar arrangements in connection with the construction of future destination retail stores.
Products and Merchandising
We offer our customers a comprehensive selection of high quality, competitively priced, national and regional brand products, including our own Cabela’s brand. Our product offering includes hunting, fishing, marine and camping merchandise, casual and outdoor apparel and footwear, optics, vehicle accessories, gifts and home furnishings with an outdoor theme.
Our merchandise assortment ranges from products at entry-level price points to premium-priced high-end items and we generally price our products consistently across our direct and retail businesses. Our destination retail stores generally offer the same merchandise available through our direct business augmented by a selection of seasonal specialty items and gifts appropriate for the store. We also tailor the merchandise selection in our destination retail stores to meet the regional tastes and preferences of our customers.
As of fiscal year end 2004, we had 43 product categories, which we have combined into five general product categories that are summarized below. The following chart sets forth the percentage of revenues contributed by each of the five product categories for our direct and retail businesses and in total in fiscal years 2004, 2003 and 2002.
Hunting equipment. We provide equipment, accessories and consumable supplies for almost every type of hunting and sport shooting. Our hunting products are supported by services including gun bore sighting and scope mounting and archery technicians for bow tuning to service the complete needs of our customer.
Fishing and marine equipment. We provide products for fresh water fishing, fly-fishing, salt water fishing and ice-fishing. We carry in excess of 20,000 types of lures and a broad selection of rods, reels and combos. In addition, our fishing and marine equipment offering features a wide selection of electronics, boats and accessories, canoes, kayaks and other floatation accessories.
Camping equipment. We primarily focus on outdoor gear for the outdoor enthusiast, augmented with gear for family camping and the weekend hiker. In addition, we include automobile and ATV accessories in this general category.
Clothing and footwear. Our clothing and footwear merchandise includes both technical gear and lifestyle apparel and footwear for the active outdoor enthusiast as well as apparel and footwear for the casual customer.
Gifts and home furnishings. Our gifts and home furnishings merchandise includes gifts, games, food assortments, books, jewelry and home furnishings with an outdoor theme.
Private Label Products. In addition to national brands, we offer our exclusive Cabela’s private label merchandise. We have a significant penetration of private label merchandise in casual apparel and footwear as well as in selected hard goods categories such as camping, fishing and optics. Where possible, we seek to protect our private label products by applying for trademark or patent protection for these products. Our private label products typically generate higher gross profit margins compared to our branded products. In fiscal 2004, our private label merchandise accounted for approximately one-third of our merchandise revenues. By attempting to have an appropriate mix of branded and private label merchandise, we strive to meet the expectations and needs of our customers.
We have in-house teams that are responsible for the design and development of all private label merchandise. This allows us to exercise significant control over the merchandise development process and the quality of our private label products. The design and development of our products is based on our understanding of our customers’ styles and preferences as well as their price expectations. We have our own quality assurance department that tests the products after the products have been manufactured by third party vendors to help ensure that the merchandise meets our specifications.
We intend to continue to design and develop a variety of new private label products to increase our revenues, enhance our margins, and expand the recognition of the Cabela’s brand. In addition, these private label products are important to our efforts to broaden our customer base and communicate our value position. In certain categories where there is not a dominant national brand, we believe that our Cabela’s private label products have stronger brand recognition than other branded products.
Merchandising and Sourcing. Our merchandising team is comprised of approximately 76 people with an average of eight years of experience working for us. The members of this team are responsible for selecting our products and negotiating the costs of our merchandise. We also have a retail merchandising team that is responsible for the regional and local merchandise needs of each destination retail store. In addition, our merchants provide product quality assurance for our retail and direct businesses. The merchandising teams use historical revenue data from our direct and retail businesses, feedback from our retail store managers and industry trends to determine which products to purchase. Our merchants are outdoor enthusiasts who use our products in the field to gain a better understanding of our customers’ needs as well as the functionality and overall performance of the products. We believe that we are well known to our customers for providing the widest product offering to the outdoor recreation market and we continue to look at category expansion to further serve our customers. We have also expanded our product offering through the acquisition of related businesses.
We have developed strong vendor relationships over the past 43 years. These relationships generally provide us with greater access to technological innovations and new products. We source our merchandise from approximately 4,000 suppliers in over 99 countries. In fiscal 2004, over half of our merchandise was sourced from locations in foreign countries, with approximately 35.3% of our merchandising being sourced from China, Taiwan and Japan. During fiscal 2004, no single vendor represented greater than 10% of total purchases. In order to exert greater control over product quality, we test products prior to the time the product is shipped to us.
Inventory Control. Our inventory control team is comprised of approximately 104 people with an average of seven years of experience working for us. These individuals are responsible for initial inventory planning and allocation decisions. These decisions are made by assessing historical revenue, performance of our direct and retail businesses, and anticipated economic outlook. Our inventory control group is equipped with distribution center and inventory management systems and is able to effectively assess revenue trends, customer demand and current inventory positions and allocate items appropriately. We track revenue at the SKU level on a daily basis and adjust our reorder and markdown strategies accordingly. We are also able to utilize our popular Bargain Cave as a means to sell discontinued and returned merchandise. Our merchandise and inventory control teams work together to make decisions regarding appropriate purchasing levels and the proper flow of merchandise. We believe this joint effort helps us to maximize the effectiveness of our merchandising team and effectively manage our inventory levels.
Marketing
Our marketing strategy focuses on using our multi-channel retail model to build the strength and recognition of our brand by communicating our wide and distinctive offering of quality products to our customers and potential customers in a cost effective manner. Our largest marketing effort consists of distributing over 120 million catalogs annually in order to attract customers to our direct and retail businesses. We have also established our website to market our products to customers and potential customers who shop via the Internet. We use both our catalogs and our website to cross-market our
destination retail stores. Our marketing strategy is designed to convey our outdoor lifestyle image, enhance our brand and emphasize our position in our target markets.
In addition to the use of our catalogs and our website, we also use a combination of promotional events, traditional advertising and media programs as marketing tools.
Competition
We compete in a number of large and highly fragmented and intensely competitive markets, including the outdoor recreation and casual apparel and footwear markets. The outdoor recreation market is comprised of several categories including hunting, fishing and wildlife watching, and we believe it crosses over a wide range of geographic and demographic segments.
We compete directly or indirectly with other broad-line merchants, large-format sporting goods stores and chains, mass merchandisers, warehouse clubs, discount stores and department stores, small specialty retailers and catalog and Internet-based retailers.
Many of our competitors have a larger number of stores and some of them have greater market presence, name recognition, and financial, distribution, marketing and other resources, than we have. We believe that we compete effectively with our competitors on the basis of our wide and distinctive merchandise selection and the superior customer service associated with the Cabela’s brand, as well as our commitment to understanding and providing merchandise that is relevant to our targeted customer base. We cater to the outdoor enthusiast and the casual customer, and believe we have an appealing store environment. We also believe that our multi-channel retail model enhances our ability to compete by allowing our customers to choose the most convenient sales channel. This model also allows us to reach a broader audience in existing and new markets and to continue to build on our nationally recognized Cabela’s brand.
Customer Service
Since our founding in 1961, we have been deeply committed to serving our customers by selling high quality products through sales associates that deliver excellent customer service and in-depth product knowledge. We strive to provide superior customer service at the time of sale and after the sale through our 100 percent money-back guarantee. Our customers can always access well-trained, knowledgeable associates to answer their product use and merchandise selection questions. We believe that our ability to establish and maintain long-term relationships with our customers and encourage repeat visits and purchases is due, in part, to the strength of our customer support and service operations.
Financial Services Business
Through our wholly-owned subsidiary, World’s Foremost Bank, we issue and manage the Cabela’s Club VISA card and related customer loyalty rewards program. We believe the Cabela’s Club VISA card loyalty rewards program is an effective vehicle for strengthening our relationships with our customers, enhancing our brand name and increasing our merchandise revenues. The primary purpose of our financial services business is to provide our merchandise customers with a rewards program that will enhance revenues, profitability and customer loyalty in our direct and retail businesses.
Our bank subsidiary is an FDIC-insured, special purpose, Nebraska state-chartered bank. Our bank’s charter is limited to issuing credit cards and selling brokered certificates of deposit of $100,000 or more and it does not accept demand deposits or make non-credit card loans. During fiscal 2004, we had an average of 618,951 active accounts with an average month-end balance of $1,436. See Note 20 to our consolidated financial statements and our “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” for financial information regarding our financial services business.
The Cabela’s Club VISA card loyalty program is a rewards based credit card program, which we believe has increased brand loyalty among our customers. Our rewards program is a simple loyalty program that allows customers to earn points whenever and wherever they use their credit card and then redeem
earned points for products and services through our direct business or at our destination retail stores. The rewards points are easy to redeem and never expire as long as the account is in good standing. The rewards program encourages our customers to buy more merchandise at a discount when they redeem their accumulated points. Our rewards program is integrated into our store point of sale system which adds to the convenience of the rewards program as our employees can inform customers of their number of accumulated points when making purchases at our stores. In fiscal 2004, approximately 17.7% of our total merchandise sales in our direct and retail businesses were made to customers who used their Cabela’s Club VISA credit card, compared to 17.1% in fiscal 2003.
Financial Services Marketing. We adhere to a low cost, efficient and tailored credit card marketing program that leverages the Cabela’s brand name. We market the Cabela’s Club VISA card through a number of channels, including inbound telemarketing, retail locations, catalogs and the Internet. Customer service representatives at our customer care centers offer the Cabela’s Club card to qualifying customers. The Cabela’s Club card is marketed throughout our catalogs and Cabela’s Club card offers are inserted in purchases when shipped to a customer. The Cabela’s Club card is also offered at our destination retail stores through an application similar to the offer inserted with customer purchases. We offer customers who apply for a Cabela’s Club card while visiting one of our destination retail stores a voucher for use on merchandise purchased at the store on the same day the customer applies for the Cabela’s Club card.
Underwriting and Credit Criteria. We attempt to underwrite high quality credit customers and have historically maintained attractive credit statistics versus industry averages. We adhere to strict credit policies and target consistent profitability in our financial services business. Fair Isaac & Company, or FICO, scores are a widely-used tool for assessing a person’s credit rating. As of the end of fiscal 2004, our cardholders had a median FICO score of 774, which is well above industry averages. We had net charge-offs as a percent of total outstanding balances of approximately 2.2% in 2004, compared to an industry average of 5.44% in 2004, which we believe is due to our credit and operating practices. In addition, our rewards program has helped reduce customer attrition in our direct and retail businesses, as demonstrated by the fact that our customers who use a Cabela’s Club card are more likely to make another purchase from us over the subsequent twelve months and spend 15% to 20% more than non-Cabela’s Club card customers.
The table below illustrates the historically high credit quality of our managed credit card portfolio, presenting additional data on our credit card portfolio’s performance in 2004 compared with industry averages.
(1)
Source: 2004 data from The Nilson Report, February 2005; Industry includes all VISA and MasterCard accounts.
Financial Services Customer Service. Each inbound call to our bank subsidiary’s customer service department is answered by the interactive voice response, or IVR, available 24 hours per day. Cardholders choose from a menu and receive detailed information including the following: account balance, available credit limit, last payment amount, last payment receipt date, payment due amount, payment due date and point total. Customer service representatives will handle all credit-related requests not answered by the IVR. They are also responsible for referring cardholders to credit analysts to underwrite Gold Card upgrades and credit line increases that do not meet the customer service standard guidelines. Cardholders can pay their bill via the mail, the telephone or the Internet.
Collection and Recoveries. We employ a “cradle to grave” collection approach whereby a collector will work all delinquency categories. We classify an account as delinquent when the minimum payment due on the account is not received by the payment date specified by the statement cycle. Accounts are
placed in collection status with an internal or third party collector at various stages of delinquency. All delinquent accounts enter collections no later than 15 days delinquent.
We have outsourced a small percentage of pre-charge-off, delinquent accounts to third party collection agencies. The account’s reward score determines whether or not it will be outsourced for collection and evaluates the predictability of collecting the delinquent balance.
We outsource the majority of post charged-off collections to third party collection agencies. If not initially resolved, post charged-off accounts will then be placed with secondary and tertiary collection agencies until resolution. We currently employ one collector who works a limited number of post charged-off accounts and manages the various collection agency relationships.
Third Party Card Programs. In 2004, our bank subsidiary entered into agreements to issue new VISA credit accounts for fans of International Speedway Corp. and for customers of Woodworker’s Supply Inc., a retailer of tools for woodworking enthusiasts. These third party programs represented only 0.3% of the total net purchases made on our co-branded VISA cards issued by the bank. In addition, they represented $5.2 million of credit card loans receivable, as currently our securitization program does not accept these co-branded third party receivables. We intend to continue to explore selected similar co-branding opportunities as additional vehicles for growth in our financial services business.
Distribution and Fulfillment
We operate four distribution centers located in Sidney, Nebraska, Prairie du Chien, Wisconsin, Mitchell, South Dakota and Wheeling, West Virginia. These distribution centers comprise nearly 2,502,000 square feet of warehouse space which house all of our inventories. We ship merchandise to our direct customers via UPS and the United States Postal Service. We use common carriers and typically deliver inventory two to three times per week to our destination retail stores. Our primary returns processing facility is located in Oshkosh, Nebraska.
Management Information Systems
Our management information and operational systems manage our direct, retail and financial services businesses. These systems are designed to process customer orders, track customer data and demographics, order, monitor and maintain sufficient amounts of inventory, facilitate vendor transactions, and provide financial reporting. We continually evaluate, modify and update our information technology systems supporting the product pipeline, including design, sourcing, merchandise planning, forecasting and purchase order, inventory, distribution, transportation and price management. We are planning modifications to our technology that will involve updating or replacing our systems with successor systems during the course of several years, including changes to the sortation systems at our distribution centers, updating of the space planning and labor scheduling software for our destination retail stores and improvements to our customer relationship management system.
Employees
As of March 5, 2005, we employed approximately 7,830 employees, approximately 4,675 of whom were employed full time. We use part-time and temporary workers to supplement our labor force at peak times during our third and fourth quarters. None of our employees are represented by a labor union or are parties to a collective bargaining agreement. We have not experienced any work stoppages and consider our relationship with our employees to be good.
Seasonality
We experience seasonal fluctuations in our net revenue and operating results. Due to buying patterns around the holidays and the opening of hunting seasons, our merchandise revenues are traditionally are higher in the third and fourth fiscal quarters than in the first and second fiscal quarters, and we typically earn a disproportionate share of our operating income in the third and fourth fiscal quarters. See Item 7
“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Quarterly Results of Operations and Seasonal Influences”.
Government Regulation
Regulation of our Bank Subsidiary. Our wholly-owned bank subsidiary is a Nebraska state chartered bank with deposits insured by the Bank Insurance Fund of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, or the FDIC. Our bank subsidiary is subject to comprehensive regulation and periodic examination by the Nebraska Department of Banking and Finance, or NDBF, and the FDIC. We are also registered as a bank holding company with the NDBF and as such are subject to periodic examination by the NDBF.
Our bank subsidiary does not qualify as a “bank” under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended, or the BHCA, because it is in compliance with a credit card bank exemption from the BHCA. If it failed to meet the credit card bank exemption criteria, its status as an insured depository institution would make us subject to the provisions of the BHCA, including restrictions as to the types of business activities in which a bank holding company and its affiliates may engage. We could be required to either divest our bank subsidiary or divest or cease any activities not permissible for a bank holding company and its affiliates, including our direct and retail businesses. While the consequences of being subject to regulation under the BHCA would be severe, we believe that the risk of being subject to the BHCA is minimal as a result of the precautions we have taken in structuring our business.
There are various federal and Nebraska law regulations relating to minimum regulatory capital requirements and requirements concerning the payment of dividends from net profits or surplus, restrictions governing transactions between an insured depository institution and its affiliates, and general federal and Nebraska regulatory oversight to prevent unsafe or unsound practices. At the end of 2004, our bank subsidiary met the requirements for a “well capitalized” institution, the highest of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act’s (FDICIA) five capital ratio levels. A “well capitalized” classification should not necessarily be viewed as describing the condition or future prospects of a depository institution, including our bank subsidiary.
FDICIA also requires the FDIC to implement a system of risk-based premiums for deposit insurance pursuant to which the premiums paid by a depository institution will be based on the probability that the FDIC will incur a loss in respect of that institution. The FDIC has since adopted a system that imposes insurance premiums based upon a matrix that takes into account an institution’s capital level and supervisory rating.
Subject to certain limitations, federal bank agencies may also require banking organizations such as our bank subsidiary to hold regulatory capital against the full risk-weighted amount of its retained securitization interests. We understand that these federal bank agencies continue to analyze interests in securitization transactions under their rules to determine the appropriate capital treatment. Any such determination could require our bank subsidiary to hold significantly higher levels of regulatory capital against such interests.
The activities of our bank subsidiary as a consumer lender also are subject to regulation under the various federal laws, including the Truth-in-Lending Act, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Fair Credit Reporting Act, the USA Patriot Act, the Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act of 2003, the Community Reinvestment Act, the Service members’ Civil Relief Act and the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act (GLB), as well as various state laws. The Truth-in-Lending Act requires disclosure of the “finance charge” and the “annual percentage rate” and certain costs and terms of credit. The Equal Credit Opportunity Act prohibits discrimination against an applicant for credit because of age, sex, marital status, religion, race, color, national origin or receipt of public assistance. The Fair Credit Reporting Act establishes procedures for correcting mistakes in a person’s credit record and generally requires that the records be kept confidential. The USA Patriot Act, among other things, regulates money laundering and prohibits structuring financial transactions to evade reporting requirements. The Community Reinvestment Act requires federal agencies to encourage depository financial institutions to help meet the credit needs of their communities. The Service members’ Civil Relief Act provides for temporary suspension of legal
proceedings and financial transactions that may adversely affect the civil rights of service members during military service. We spend significant amounts of time ensuring we are in compliance with these laws and work with our service providers to ensure that actions they take in connection with services they perform for us are in compliance with these laws. Depending on the underlying issue and applicable law, regulators are often authorized to impose penalties for violations of these statutes and, in some cases, to order our bank subsidiary to compensate injured borrowers. Borrowers may also have a private right of action to bring actions for some violations. Federal bankruptcy and state debtor relief and collection laws also affect the ability of our bank subsidiary to collect outstanding balances owed by borrowers. The GLB Act requires our bank subsidiary to disclose its privacy policy to customers and consumers, and requires that such customers and consumers be given a choice (through an opt-out notice) to forbid the sharing of non-public personal information about them with non-affiliated third persons. We have a written Privacy Notice posted on our website which is delivered to each of our customers when the customer relationships begin, and annually thereafter, in compliance with the GLB Act.
Certain acquisitions of our capital stock or our bank subsidiary’s capital stock may be subject to regulatory approval or notice under federal or Nebraska law. Investors are responsible for ensuring that they do not, directly or indirectly, acquire shares of our capital stock in excess of the amount which can be acquired without regulatory approval.
Taxation Applicable to Us. We pay applicable corporate income, franchise and other taxes, to states in which our destination retail stores are physically located. Upon entering a new state, we apply for a private letter ruling from the state’s revenue department stating which types of taxes our direct and retail businesses will be required to collect and pay in such state, and we accrue and remit the applicable taxes based upon the private letter ruling. As we open more destination retail stores, we will be subject to tax in an increasing number of state and local taxing jurisdictions. Although we believe we have properly accrued for these taxes based on our current interpretation of the tax code and prior private letter rulings, state taxing authorities may challenge our interpretation, attempt to revoke their private letter rulings or amend their tax laws. If state taxing authorities are successful, additional taxes, interest and related penalties may be assessed. See “Factors Affecting Future Results - Our use tax collection policy for our direct business may expose us to the risk that we may be assessed for unpaid use taxes which would harm our operating results and cash flows” and “- Our destination retail store expansion strategy may result in our direct business establishing nexus with additional states which may cause our direct business to pay additional income taxes and require us to collect use taxes from our direct customers which would have an adverse effect on the profitability and cash flows of our direct business.”
Other Regulations Applicable to Us. We must comply with federal, state and local regulations, including the federal Brady Handgun Violence Prevention Act, which require us, as a federal firearms licensee, to perform a pre-sale background check of purchasers of hunting rifles and other firearms.
We are also subject to a variety of state laws and regulations relating to, among other things, advertising, pricing, and product safety/restrictions. Some of these laws prohibit or limit the sale, in certain states and locations, of certain items we offer such as black powder firearms, ammunition, bows, knives and similar products. State and local government regulation of hunting can also affect our business.
We are subject to certain federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment and human health and safety. We believe that we are in substantial compliance with the terms of environmental laws and that we have no liabilities under such laws that we expect to have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition.
Our direct business is subject to the Merchandise Mail Order Rule and related regulations promulgated by the Federal Trade Commission, or FTC, which affect our catalog mail order operations. FTC regulations, in general, govern the solicitation of orders, the information provided to prospective customers, and the timeliness of shipments and refunds. In addition, the FTC has established guidelines for advertising and labeling many of the products we sell.
Intellectual Property
Cabela’s®, Cabela’s Club®, Cabelas.com®, World’s Foremost Outfitter®, World’s Foremost Bank®, Bargain Cave®, Dunn’s®, Van Dyke’s®, Wild Wings® and Herters® are among our registered service marks or trademarks with the United States Patent and Trademark Office. We have numerous pending applications for trademarks. In addition, we own several other registered and unregistered trademarks and service marks involving advertising slogans and other names and phrases used in our business. We own several patents associated with various products. We also own trade secrets, domain names and copyrights, which have been registered for each of our catalogs.
We believe that our trademarks are valid and valuable and intend to maintain our trademarks and any related registrations. We do not know of any pending claims of infringement or other challenges to our right to use our marks in the United States or elsewhere. We have no franchises or other concessions which are material to our operations.
Available Information
Our website address is www.cabelas.com. There we make available, free of charge, our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with or furnish it to the SEC. Our SEC reports can be accessed through the investor relations section of our website. The information on our website, whether currently posted or in the future, is not part of this or any other report we file with or furnish to the SEC.
ITEM 2.
PROPERTIES
In addition to our destination retail stores listed below, we also operate a corporate headquarters, administrative offices, four distribution centers, a return center, five customer care centers and a taxidermy manufacturing facility. The following table provides information regarding the general location, use and approximate size of our non-retail principal properties:
(1)
We own all of these properties except the Grand Island, Nebraska customer care center and Wheeling, West Virginia distribution center, which we lease. We have evaluated the SEC’s recent clarification of lease accounting and we believe that we have accounted for our limited number of lease agreements appropriately.
We own all of our destination retail stores. However, in connection with some of the economic development packages received from state or local governments where our stores are located, we have entered into agreements granting ownership of the taxidermy, diorama, or other portions of our stores to these state and local governments. The following table shows the location, opening date, and total square footage of our destination retail stores used in our retail segment:
ITEM 3.