Item 2. Properties
Offices
We currently lease office space in: Calgary, Alberta; Buenos Aires and Vespucio, Argentina; Bogota, Colombia; Rio de Janiero, Brazil; and Lima and Iquitos, Peru. We have five Calgary leases, the first two expire January 31, 2013, the third expires October 31, 2012, the fourth expires April 30, 2014 and the fifth expires October 30, 2015. They cost $11,695 per month, $6,312 per month, $3,884 per month, $12,568 per month and $32,577 per month, respectively. We have subleased the fourth lease for $10,500 per month from February 1, 2009 to August 31, 2011, and we plan on subleasing the first three as well. All Calgary based staff will be housed in the space covered by our fifth lease in March 2010. Our two Buenos Aires, Argentina leases expire January 31, 2012 and July 17, 2012 and cost $2,877 per month and $2,743 per month, respectively. The lease in Vespucio, Argentina expires February 28, 2011 at a cost of $1,500 per month. We have four leases in Bogota, Colombia. They expire February 28, 2010, April 1, 2010, June 30, 2010 and February 1, 2012 and cost $2,734 per month, $1,863 per month, 2,610 per month and $71,471 per month, respectively. We have office space leased in Rio de Janiero, Brazil until September 30, 2012 at a cost of $5,380 per month. In Lima, Peru, we have one office with a lease expiring October 31, 2010 at a cost of $3,045 per month and a house for staff residence with a lease expiring November 13, 2010 at a cost of $1,650 per month. In Iquitos, Peru we have a combination office and staff residence with a lease expiring October 31, 2011 at a cost of $1,055 per month. The properties remaining on lease are in excellent condition, and we believe that they are sufficient for our office needs for the foreseeable future.
Oil and Gas Properties - Colombia
In June 2006, we purchased Argosy Energy International L.P (“Argosy”) which was subsequently renamed Gran Tierra Colombia Ltd. Argosy had interests in seven exploration and production contracts at that time, including the Santana, Guayuyaco, Chaza and Mecaya blocks in the Putumayo basin in southwest Colombia; the Talora and Rio Magdalena blocks in the Magdalena basin, west of Bogota; and the Primavera block in the Llanos basin. The acquisition price included overriding royalty rights and net profits interests in the blocks that were owned by Argosy at the time of the acquisition. The Azar block in the Putumayo basin was acquired later in 2006, and two Technical Evaluation Areas in the Putumayo basin (Putumayo West A and Putumayo West B) were acquired in 2007. We relinquished the Primavera block in 2007.
In November 2008, we acquired Solana which increased our interest in the Guayuyaco and Chaza blocks, and added 7 blocks in 3 basins. The Magangue Block is located in the Lower Magdalena basin in northwest Colombia; the Catguas Block is in the Catatumbo basin which forms the southwest flank of Venezuela’s Maracaibo basin; and the Guachiria Norte, San Pablo, Guachiria, Guachiria Sur and Garibay blocks are in the Llanos basin north east of Bogota.
In 2009 we converted portions of the two Technical Evaluation Areas to three exploration and production blocks - part of Putumayo West A was converted to two exploration and exploitation blocks named Piedemonte Norte and Piedemonte Sur. Part of Putumayo West B was converted to the Rumiyaco block. We sold the Guachria, Guachira Sur and Guachira Norte blocks. We relinquished our rights to the San Pablo block and Talora Blocks, and have entered into letters of intent regarding the sale of the Catguas and Garibay blocks. We also entered into a sale agreement for the Rio Magdalena and Mecaya blocks that is awaiting ANH approval.
Currently, the Guayuyaco, Santana, and Chaza blocks have producing oil wells.
Colombian royalties are set by law - specifically law 756 of 2002. All discoveries after the enactment of this law have the sliding scale royalty described below. Discoveries made before the enactment of this law have a royalty of 20%. The ANH contracts to which Gran Tierra is a party all have royalties that are based on a sliding scale described in law 756. This royalty works on an individual field basis starting with a base royalty rate of 8% for gross production of less than 5,000 barrels of oil per day. The royalty increases in a linear fashion from 8% to 20% for gross production between 5,000 and 125,000 barrels of oil per day, and is stable at 20% for gross production between 125,000 and 400,000 barrels of oil per day. For gross production between 400,000 and 600,000 barrels of oil per day the rate increases in a linear fashion from 20% to 25%. For gross production in excess of 600,000 barrels of oil per day the royalty rate is fixed at 25%. Our production from our Costayaco field is also subject (starting in October 2009) to an additional royalty that applies when cumulative gross production is greater than 5 million barrels. This additional royalty applies to 30% of the gross production and is calculated on the difference between WTI and an oil quality based index. As the law stands currently, any new discoveries on ANH contracted blocks will also be subject to this additional royalty. Santana and Magangue blocks have a flat 20% royalty; as those discoveries were made before 2002. Guayuyaco and Rio Magdalena blocks have the sliding scale royalty but do not have the additional royalty. In addition to these government royalties, Gran Tierra’s original interests in the five blocks purchased from Argosy that we still hold (Santana, Guayuyaco, Chaza, Rio Magdalena, Mecaya) are subject to a third party royalty. The additional interest in Guayuyaco and Chaza acquired by Gran Tierra on the acquisition of Solana is not subject to this third party royalty.
Santana
The Santana block contract was signed in July 1987 and covers 1,119 acres and includes 15 producing wells in four fields - Linda, Mary, Miraflor and Toroyaco. Activities are governed by terms of a Shared Risk Contract with Ecopetrol, and we are the operator. We hold a 35% working interest in all fields. Ecopetrol holds the remaining interest. The block has been producing since 1991. Under the Shared Risk Contract, Ecopetrol initially backed in to a 50% working interest upon declaration of commerciality in 1991. In June 1996, when the field reached 7 million barrels of oil produced, Ecopetrol had the right to back into a further 15% working interest, which it took, for a total ownership of 65%.
The production contract expires in 2015, at which time the property will be returned to the government. As a result, there will be no reclamation costs.
In 2009, we performed regular facility and well maintenance. For 2010, we plan more of the same.
Guayuyaco
The Guayuyaco block contract was signed in September 2002 and covers 52,366 acres, which includes the area surrounding the four producing fields of the Santana contract area. The Guayuyaco block is governed by an Association Contract with Ecopetrol. We are the operator and have a 70% participation interest, with the other 30% held by Ecopetrol. The Guayuyaco field was discovered in 2005. Three wells are now producing, Guayuyaco-1 commenced production in February 2005, Guayuyaco-2 began production in September 2005 and Juanambu-1 began commercial production on November 8, 2007. Ecopetrol may back-in to a 30% participation interest in any other new discoveries in the block.
The contract expires in two phases: the exploration phase and the production phase. The exploration phase expired in 2005 and the production phase expires in 2027. We have completed all of our obligations in relation to the exploration phase of the contract. The property will be returned to the government upon expiration of the production contract. As a result, there will be no reclamation costs.
In 2009, we completed work on the separator for the Juanambu field and work on water treatment facilities. In 2010, we plan to drill a second well in the Juanambu field, drill an exploration well, and acquire 40 square kilometers of 3D seismic. We also plan work on electrical systems, flowlines, storage tanks and other facilities.
Chaza
The Chaza block covers 80,242 acres and is governed by the terms of an Exploration and Exploitation Contract with ANH, which was signed June 27, 2005. We are the operator and hold a 100% participation interest. The discovery of the Costayaco field in the Chaza block was the result of drilling the Costayaco-1 exploration well in the second quarter of 2007. This well commenced production in July 2007.
This block is in a combined fourth and fifth exploration period which carries the obligation to drill two exploration wells and expires December 26, 2010. We drilled the first exploration well at the end of 2009, the Dantayaco-1 well, which was plugged and abandoned in January 2010, and the second exploration well is scheduled to be drilled in 2010. There is one further exploration period after December 26, 2010: period six lasts six months and has an obligation to drill one exploration well. The contract for this field expires in two phases. The exploration phase expires in 2011 and the production phase ends in 2032. The property will be returned to the government upon expiration of the production phase. Within 60 days following the date of the return of the property, we must carry out an abandonment program to the satisfaction of ANH. In conjunction with the abandonment, we must establish and maintain an abandonment fund to ensure that financial resources are available at the end of the contract.
Work completed in 2009 included drilling development wells Costayaco 7 through 10. Costayaco 8 through 10 are producing wells and Costayaco-7 was suspended. We also completed work on pipeline and storage facilities, to keep pace with expanding production, and completed the development well Costayaco-6 as an injector well.
In 2010, we plan to acquire 70 square kilometers of 3D seismic, drill one exploration well and one Costayaco injector well. We plan further upgrades to the storage and transportation systems, camp, office and warehouse. We are undertaking a project to electrify the field, which will reduce our dependence on diesel fuel for power and lead to cost savings.
Azar
We acquired an 80% interest in the Azar property through a farm-in agreement entered into in late 2006. This exploration block covers 51,639 acres and we are the operator. Pursuant to the terms of the farm-in agreement we were obligated to pay the original owner’s 20% share of future costs, in addition to our own 80% share. In mid-2007 we farmed out 50% of our interest to a third party. The third party will pay 100% of our 80% share of exploration and development costs for the first three periods of the exploration contract, and we remained obligated to pay 20% of costs under our 2006 farm-in agreement. The agreement has now moved to its next phase, in which the carried partner will pay 50% of its share (10% of the total cost) of the work for the current exploration period to maintain its 20% interest. If the carried partner does not pay its share of the costs, then it will reduce its ownership percentage to 10%. We are now in the fourth exploration period which carries a commitment to drill one well. There are two more exploration periods that follow, each lasting 12 months and including an obligation to drill one exploration well. The exploration phase of the contract expires in 2012 for this property. The exploitation phase expires 24 years after commerciality is approved. The property will be returned to the government upon expiration of the production contract. If we make a commercial discovery on the block, and produce oil, we will be obligated to perform abandonment activities under the same conditions as those for the Chaza block.
In 2009, we acquired 50 square kilometers of 3D seismic and 40 kilometers of 2D seismic.
In 2010, we plan to drill two exploration wells (one of which we will pay 10% of the costs, and one of which we will pay 40% of the costs), and acquire 75 square kilometers of 3D seismic.
Piedemonte Norte
In June 2009, we completed the conversion of our Technical Evaluation Areas in the Putumayo Basin to blocks with ANH Exploration and Exploitation Contracts. Piedemonte Norte covers 78,742 acres and is held 100% by Gran Tierra and was part of the Putumayo West A Technical Evaluation Area. From June to December 2009 we were in a pre-exploration phase in which we performed environmental evaluation and survey work. We are now in the first exploration period of a total of six periods. The exploration phase of the contract expires in December 2015, and the exploitation phase would expire 24 years after commerciality of a discovery is approved. The first exploration period contains a commitment to acquire, process and interpret 70 kilometers of 2D seismic by December 16, 2010. We plan to exceed this commitment in 2010 with a program to acquire 70 square kilometers of 2D seismic and to drill one exploration well.
Piedemonte Sur
Piedemonte Sur was also part of the Putumayo West A Technical Evaluation Area and became an exploration block with an ANH Exploration and Exploitation Contract in June 2009. Piedemonte Sur covers 73,898 acres and is held 100% by Gran Tierra. From June to December 2009, we were in a pre-exploration phase in which we performed environmental evaluation and survey work. We are now in the first exploration period of a total of six periods in the contract. The exploration phase ends in December 2015, and the exploitation phase would expire 24 years after commerciality of a discovery is approved. The first exploration period contains a commitment to drill one exploration well to a minimum depth of 3,000 feet, by December 16, 2010. Our work plans for 2010 are to acquire 10 kilometers of 2D seismic and drill one exploration well.
Rumiyaco
Rumiyaco was part of the Putumayo West B Technical Evaluation Area and became an exploration block with an ANH Exploration and Exploitation Contract in June 2009. Rumiyaco covers 82,624 acres and is held 100% by Gran Tierra. From June to December 2009, we were in a pre-exploration phase in which we performed environmental evaluation and survey work. We are now in the first exploration period of a total of six periods in the contract. The exploration phase ends in December 2015, and the exploitation phase would expire 24 years after commerciality of a discovery is approved. The first exploration period contains a commitment to reprocess 60 kilometers of 2D seismic and acquire, process and interpret 68 kilometers of 2D seismic by December 16, 2010. Our work plans for 2010 are to acquire 95 square kilometers of 3D seismic, 12 kilometers of 2D seismic and drill one exploration well.
Magangué Block
Solana acquired the Magangue block in October 2006. It is held pursuant to an Ecopetrol Association Contract and covers an area of 20,647 acres. We are the operator of the block with a 37.8% working interest and our partners Ecopetrol and another third party each have a 58% and a 4.2% working interest, respectively. This block contains the Güepajé gas field.
This block borders the La Creciente block where there was a significant gas discovery in the same productive formation as the Güepajé gas field in 2006. The contract expires in 2017. The exploration phase for this block is over and there are no obligatory work commitments.
In 2010 we have nominal capital spending for facility upgrades planned.
Garibay Block
Solana acquired the Garibay block in October 2005. The block covers 75,936 acres and we have a working interest of 50%. The block is located approximately 170 kilometers east of Bogotá and is subject to an ANH contract. On November 17, 2007, a farm-in agreement was signed with a third party under which they financed the drilling of the Topocho-1 exploration well in return for a 50% working interest in the block and becoming the operator. This well was a dry hole.
We are currently in period five of the exploration contract, which expires October 24, 2010. There are a total of 6 exploration periods, each lasting 12 months and requiring one exploration well.
In 2009, we swapped 79 square kilometers of 3D seismic acquisition in exchange for the original contract’s obligation of one exploration well for the current period. Acquisition of this seismic was completed in 2009.
We have signed a letter of intent with a third party regarding the sale of our entire interest in the Garibay block. We are currently finalizing the assignment agreement. Once the agreement is complete and signed, we will have to obtain ANH approval to finalize the sale. We have not budgeted any activity for this block in 2010.
Rio Magdalena
The Rio Magdalena Association Contract with Ecopetrol was signed in February 2002. The Rio Magdalena block covers 72,312 acres and is located approximately 75 kilometers west of Bogota, Colombia. This is an exploration block and there are no reserves at this time. We are the operator of the block and hold a 40% working interest. We have two partners who hold 9% and 51% each. The production contract expires in 2030 at which time the property will be returned to the government. As a result, there will be no reclamation costs. According to the terms of the Association Contract, Ecopetrol may back-in for a 30% participation interest to any discoveries on the block upon commercialization.
This block is in the sixth exploration period, which expires September 14, 2010 and carries the obligation to finish the long term production test of the Popa-2 well drilled in 2008, and acquire 80 kilometers of 2D seismic. In 2009, we acquired 75 square kilometers of 3D seismic, completed the Popa 2 well, and began the long term production test of this well. Later in 2009, we entered into an assignment agreement, under which we sold this block to Alange Corporation of Colombia. We are awaiting ANH and Ecopetrol approval to finalize the sale.
Mecaya
The Mecaya Exploration and Exploitation contract was signed June 2006. The Mecaya contract area covers 74,128 acres in southern Colombia in the Putumayo Basin. We are the operator and currently have a 15% participation interest and two partners have 55% and 30% each. We are in exploration period two of this contract and are obliged to drill one exploration well, and re-enter a previously drilled well. We were contractually obligated to complete this work by June 2009, however the contract terms have been suspended due to operational difficulties in the area. There are two more exploration periods following, each of which are 12 months in duration. The third period has an obligation to acquire seismic data, and the fourth period has the obligation to drill one exploration well. The exploitation phase for this contract expires 24 years after commerciality is approved for any discovery. The property will be returned to the government upon expiration of the production contract.
In 2009, we entered into an assignment agreement, under which we sold this block to Alange Corporation of Colombia. We are awaiting ANH and Ecopetrol approval to finalize the sale.
Catguas Block
Solana acquired the Catguas block in November 2005. We are the operator of the block which covers 393,150 acres in the Catatumbo Basin, and we hold a 100% working interest. In the southern 70% of the block, two partners together have a 15% beneficial interest, and a 50% beneficial interest in the remainder. The block is held under an ANH contract.
There are no wells producing on this block. We are in the third period of the exploration portion of the contract, out of a total of six periods, and this period expires June 5, 2010, and has an obligation to re-enter an existing well and drill two exploration wells. All remaining periods are 12 months in length and carry a work obligation of one well. The exploitation phase would last 24 years from any declaration of a commercial discovery.
In 2009, due to operating conditions in the area, we were not able to complete any exploration work. We have signed a letter of intent with a third party regarding the sale of our entire interest in the Catguas block. We are currently finalizing the assignment agreement. Once the agreement is complete and signed, we will have to obtain ANH approval to finalize the sale. We have not budgeted any activity for this block in 2010.
Guachiría Norte, Guachiria and Guachiria Sur Blocks
In 2009, we completed several work items that were part of the commitments in the contracts for these blocks. On the Guachiria Sur block, we completed the acquisition of 115 kilometers of 3D seismic. On the Guachiria block, we removed all production equipment. On the Guachiria Norte block, we drilled one exploration well, Puinaves-2, which was plugged and abandoned.
In April 2009, we sold our entire interest in these three blocks to Lewis Energy Colombia. Principal terms included consideration of $7 million, plus settlement of outstanding issues between Lewis Energy and Gran Tierra Energy's subsidiary, Solana Resources, comprising an initial cash payment of $4 million at closing, followed by 15 monthly installments of $200,000 beginning June 1, 2009 and extending through August 3, 2010. We retained a 10% overriding royalty interest on the Guachiria Sur block in the event of a discovery, designed to reimburse 200% of Gran Tierra’s net costs for previously acquired seismic data. We assumed responsibility for environmental liabilities existing on the properties at the date of sale, estimated at approximately $1.2 million.
Talora
In 2009, the Montmelo-1 exploration well was drilled on the Talora block. This well was paid for 100% by Petrosouth Energy Corporation, and they had 100% working interest in that well.
Effective October 23, 2009, we assigned our 100% interest in the Talora block to Petrosouth Energy Corporation Sucursal Colombia for no proceeds. The assignment has been approved by ANH.
San Pablo Block
In 2009, we acquired 50 kilometers of 3D seismic, as part of our commitment under the exploration contract. We relinquished our license rights to this block later in the year.
Oil and Gas Properties - Argentina
In September 2005, we entered Argentina through the acquisition of a 14% interest in the Palmar Largo joint venture, and a 50% interest in each of the Nacatimbay and Ipaguazu blocks. In 2006, we purchased additional properties in Argentina, including the remaining 50% interest in Nacatimbay and Ipaguazu, a 50% interest in El Vinalar and 100% interests in El Chivil, Valle Morado, Surubi and Santa Victoria. In 2009 we relinquished our rights to the Nacatimbay block. Our Argentina properties are located in the Noroeste Basin in northern Argentina.
Palmar Largo
The Palmar Largo joint venture block encompasses 341,500 acres. This asset is comprised of several producing oil fields in the Noroeste Basin. We own a 14% working interest in the Palmar Largo joint venture, which we purchased in September 2005. A total of 14 gross wells are currently producing.
The Palmar Largo block rights expire in 2017 but provide for a ten-year extension. We do not have any outstanding work commitments. At expiry of the block rights, ownership of the producing assets will revert to the provincial government.
Our work program for 2010 involves optimization of well performance and operating expenses to maximize net revenues from the property.
Ipaguazu
We acquired a 100% working interest in the Ipaguazu block through two transactions. We purchased a 50% working interest in September 2005 and we purchased the remaining 50% working interest in November 2006. We are the operator of the block. The oil and gas field was discovered in 1981 and produced approximately 100 thousand barrels of oil and 400 million cubic feet of natural gas until 2003. The Ipaguazu block covers 21,745 acres and has not been fully appraised, leaving scope for both reactivation and exploration in the future. The Ipaguazu block rights expire in 2016 with a ten year extension if a discovery is made. We do not have any outstanding work commitments. At expiry of the block rights, ownership of the producing assets will revert to the provincial government. In 2009, we installed production facilities and commenced production from the Ipaguazu-1 well. In 2010, we will maintain and upgrade the production facilities for this well.
El Vinalar
We acquired a 50% working interest in the El Vinalar Block in June 2006. This acquisition added a significant new land position and a small amount of production. El Vinalar covers 59,080 acres and contains a portfolio of exploration leads and oil field enhancement opportunities.
The El Vinalar rights expire in 2016 with a ten year extension if a discovery is made. We do not have any outstanding work commitments. At expiry of the block rights, ownership of the producing assets will revert to the provincial government.
One successful workover was completed in 2009, along with facilities maintenance and improvements to production equipment.
In 2010, we plan to continue regular field maintenance and workover activities in El Vinalar.
El Chivil
We purchased El Chivil in November and December 2006, along with Surubi, Valle Morado and Santa Victoria. We are the operator and hold a 100% working interest in El Chivil. The Chivil field was discovered in 1987. Three wells were drilled with two remaining in production. The contract for this field expires in 2015 with the option for a ten year extension.
In 2009, we performed one successful workover, converted one well to a water disposal well and upgraded facilities.
In 2010, we plan to continue facilities maintenance activities.
Surubi
We are the operator of the Surubi block and have an 85% working interest. In 2008, we drilled the Proa-1 discovery well, which began production in September, 2008. The provincial oil company REFSA farmed-in to the block for a 15% working interest, and it is paying its share of well costs from its share of production from Proa-1.
In 2009, we performed a successful workover on the Proa-1 well. In 2010, we plan to conduct facilities maintenance activities.
Valle Morado
We purchased the Valle Morado block at the end of 2006. It covers 49,915 acres, and we are the operator and have a 93.2% working interest. The remaining 6.8% interest is held equally by two other companies. The previous owners have the option to back-in for 18% working interest under certain circumstances.
Valle Morado was first drilled in 1989. The original owner subsequently completed a 3D seismic program over the field and constructed a gas plant and pipeline infrastructure. Production began in 1999 from a single well and was shut-in in 2001 due to water incursion. In 2008, we successfully re-entered the well. In 2009, we conducted a feasibility study of production with promising results. We signed a sales agreement with Albenesi SA for sale of test production. In 2010, we plan to do a workover and sidetrack of the well, with the goal of making it ready for production.
Santa Victoria
We purchased the Santa Victoria block late in 2006. Santa Victoria covers 1,033,642 acres and we are the operator with a 100% working interest. It is an exploration block with no production history. In 2010 we plan to acquire 150 square kilometers of 3D seismic and 200 kilometers of 2D seismic.
Nacatimbay
We relinquished this block in 2009 and have no further commitments.
Oil and Gas Properties - Peru
We entered Peru in 2006 through the award by the government of Peru of two frontier exploration blocks.
Blocks 122 and 128
We were awarded two exploration blocks in Peru in the last quarter of 2006 under a license contract for the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons. Block 122 covers 1,217,651 acres and block 128 covers 2,218,389 acres. The blocks are located in the eastern flank of the Maranon Basin in northern Peru, on the crest of the Iquitos Arch. There is a 5-20%, sliding scale, royalty rate on the lands, dependent on production levels. Production less than 5,000 barrels of oil per day is assessed a royalty of 5%, for production between 5,000 and 100,000 barrels of oil per day there is a linear sliding scale between 5% and 20%. Production over 100,000 barrels per day has a royalty of 20%. The exploration contracts expire in 2014 and work commitments are defined in four exploration periods spread over seven years. There is a financial commitment of $3.5 million over the seven years for each block which includes technical studies, seismic acquisition and the drilling of exploration wells. Acquisition of technical data through aeromagnetic-gravity studies began in 2007, and was completed in the first half of 2008, with a total of 20,000 kilometers of data acquired over both blocks. In 2009, we completed EIA’s and the community consultation process. Also in 2009, we conducted engineering feasibility and geological studies and evaluated the results of the aeromagnetic-gravity studies, and opened offices in Lima and Iquitos. In 2010, we plan to acquire 277 kilometers of 2D seismic on each block, as well as drill two wells on each block, on locations identified from our aeromagnetic-gravity data.
Reserves
No estimates of reserves comparable to those included herein have been included in a report to any federal agency other than the SEC.
The process of estimating oil and gas reserves is complex and requires significant judgment, as discussed in Item 1A. “Risk Factors”. As a result we have developed internal policies for estimating and evaluating reserves, and 100% of our reserves are audited by an independent reservoir engineering firm, GLJ Associates Ltd., at least annually. The reserve estimation process will require us to use significant decisions and assumptions in the evaluation of available geological, geophysical, engineering and economic data for each property. Therefore the accuracy of the reserve estimate is dependent on the quality of the data, the accuracy of the assumptions based on the data, and the interpretations and judgment related to the data.
The policies we have developed are applied company wide, and are comprehensive in nature. The result of the policies is SEC compliant reserve estimates and disclosures. The policy is applied by all staff involved in generating and reporting reserve estimates including geological, engineering and finance personnel. Calculations and data are reviewed at multiple levels of the organization to ensure consistent and appropriate standards and procedures.
The primary internal technical person in charge of overseeing the preparation of our reserve estimates is the Manager of Reservoir Engineering. He has a bachelor’s degree of science in petroleum engineering and is a professional engineer and member of the Association of Professional Engineers, Geologists and Geophysicists of Alberta. He is currently responsible for our engineering activities including reserves reporting, asset evaluation, field development and monitoring production operations. He has over 29 years of industry experience in various domestic and international engineering and management roles.
The technical person responsible for overseeing the reserves audit is the Manager, Engineering at GLJ Associated Ltd. He has bachelor’s degree of science in engineering physics and is a registered professional engineer in the province of Alberta . He is currently responsible for reserve reporting. He has over 20 years of industry experience in various domestic and international engineering and management roles.
The SEC definitions related to oil and natural gas reserves, per Regulation S-X, reflecting our use of deterministic reserve estimation methods, are as follows:
·
Reserves. Reserves are estimated remaining quantities of oil and gas and related substances anticipated to be economically producible, as of a given date, by application of development projects to known accumulations. In addition, there must exist, or there must be a reasonable expectation that there will exist, the legal right to produce or a revenue interest in the production, installed means of delivering oil and gas or related substances to market, and all permits and financing required to implement the project.
·
Proved oil and gas reserves. Proved oil and gas reserves are those quantities of oil and gas, which, by analysis of geoscience and engineering data, can be estimated with reasonable certainty to be economically producible-from a given date forward, from known reservoirs, and under existing economic conditions, operating methods, and government regulations-prior to the time at which contracts providing the right to operate expire, unless evidence indicates that renewal is reasonably certain, regardless of whether deterministic or probabilistic methods are used for the estimation. The project to extract the hydrocarbons must have commenced or the operator must be reasonably certain that it will commence the project within a reasonable time.
(i)
The area of the reservoir considered as proved includes:
A.
The area identified by drilling and limited by fluid contacts, if any, and
B.
Adjacent undrilled portions of the reservoir that can, with reasonable certainty, be judged to be continuous with it and to contain economically producible oil or gas on the basis of available geoscience and engineering data.
(ii)
In the absence of data on fluid contacts, proved quantities in a reservoir are limited by the lowest known hydrocarbons (LKH) as seen in a well penetration unless geoscience, engineering, or performance data and reliable technology establishes a lower contact with reasonable certainty.
(iii)
Where direct observation from well penetrations has defined a highest known oil (HKO) elevation and the potential exists for an associated gas cap, proved oil reserves may be assigned in the structurally higher portions of the reservoir only if geoscience, engineering, or performance data and reliable technology establish the higher contact with reasonable certainty.
(iv)
Reserves which can be produced economically through application of improved recovery techniques (including, but not limited to, fluid injection) are included in the proved classification when:
A.
Successful testing by a pilot project in an area of the reservoir with properties no more favorable than in the reservoir as a whole, the operation of an installed program in the reservoir or an analogous reservoir, or other evidence using reliable technology establishes the reasonable certainty of the engineering analysis on which the project or program was based; and.
B.
The project has been approved for development by all necessary parties and entities, including governmental entities.
(v)
Existing economic conditions include prices and costs at which economic producibility from a reservoir is to be determined. The price shall be the average price during the 12-month period prior to the ending date of the period covered by the report, determined as an unweighted arithmetic average of the first-day-of-the-month price for each month within such period, unless prices are defined by contractual arrangements, excluding escalations based upon future conditions.
·
Probable reserves. Probable reserves are those additional reserves that are less certain to be recovered than proved reserves but which, together with proved reserves, are as likely as not to be recovered.
(i)
When deterministic methods are used, it is as likely as not that actual remaining quantities recovered will exceed the sum of estimated proved plus probable reserves. When probabilistic methods are used, there should be at least a 50% probability that the actual quantities recovered will equal or exceed the proved plus probable reserves estimates.
(ii)
Probable reserves may be assigned to areas of a reservoir adjacent to proved reserves where data control or interpretations of available data are less certain, even if the interpreted reservoir continuity of structure or productivity does not meet the reasonable certainty criterion. Probable reserves may be assigned to areas that are structurally higher than the proved area if these areas are in communication with the proved reservoir.
(iii)
Probable reserves estimates also include potential incremental quantities associated with a greater percentage recovery of the hydrocarbons in place than assumed for proved reserves.
(iv)
See also guidelines in paragraphs (a)(17)(iv) and (a)(17)(vi) of section 210.4-10(a) of Regulations S-X..
·
Possible reserves. Possible reserves are those additional reserves that are less certain to be recovered than probable reserves.
(i)
When deterministic methods are used, the total quantities ultimately recovered from a project have a low probability of exceeding proved plus probable plus possible reserves. When probabilistic methods are used, there should be at least a 10% probability that the total quantities ultimately recovered will equal or exceed the proved plus probable plus possible reserves estimates.
(ii)
Possible reserves may be assigned to areas of a reservoir adjacent to probable reserves where data control and interpretations of available data are progressively less certain. Frequently, this will be in areas where geoscience and engineering data are unable to define clearly the area and vertical limits of commercial production from the reservoir by a defined project.
(iii)
Possible reserves also include incremental quantities associated with a greater percentage recovery of the hydrocarbons in place than the recovery quantities assumed for probable reserves.
(iv)
The proved plus probable and proved plus probable plus possible reserves estimates must be based on reasonable alternative technical and commercial interpretations within the reservoir or subject project that are clearly documented, including comparisons to results in successful similar projects.
(v)
Possible reserves may be assigned where geoscience and engineering data identify directly adjacent portions of a reservoir within the same accumulation that may be separated from proved areas by faults with displacement less than formation thickness or other geological discontinuities and that have not been penetrated by a wellbore, and the registrant believes that such adjacent portions are in communication with the known (proved) reservoir. Possible reserves may be assigned to areas that are structurally higher or lower than the proved area if these areas are in communication with the proved reservoir.
(vi)
Pursuant to paragraph (a)(22)(iii) of section 210.4-10(a) of Regulations S-X, where direct observation has defined a highest known oil (HKO) elevation and the potential exists for an associated gas cap, proved oil reserves should be assigned in the structurally higher portions of the reservoir above the HKO only if the higher contact can be established with reasonable certainty through reliable technology. Portions of the reservoir that do not meet this reasonable certainty criterion may be assigned as probable and possible oil or gas based on reservoir fluid properties and pressure gradient interpretations.
·
Reasonable Certainty. If deterministic methods are used, reasonable certainty means a high degree of confidence that the quantities will be recovered. A high degree of confidence exists if the quantity is much more likely to be achieved than not, and as changes due to increased availability of geoscience (geological, geophysical and geochemical), engineering and economic data are made to estimated ultimate recovery (EUR) with time, reasonably certain EUR is much more likely to increase or remain constant that to decrease.
·
Deterministic estimate. The method of estimating reserves or resources is called deterministic when a single value for each parameter (from the geoscience, engineering, or economic data) in the reserves calculation is used in the reserves estimation procedure.
·
Developed oil and gas reserves. Developed oil and gas reserves are reserves of any category that can be expected to be recovered:
(i)
Through existing wells with existing equipment and operating methods or in which the cost of the required equipment is relatively minor compared to the cost of a new well; and
(ii)
Through installed extraction equipment and infrastructure operational at the time of the reserves estimate if the extraction is by means not involving a well.
·
Undeveloped oil and gas reserves. Undeveloped oil and gas reserves are reserves of any category that are expected to be recovered from new wells on undrilled acreage, or from existing wells where a relatively major expenditure is required for recompletion.
(i)
Reserves on undrilled acreage shall be limited to those directly offsetting development spacing areas that are reasonably certain of production when drilled, unless evidence using reliable technology exists that establishes reasonable certainty of economic producibility at greater distances.
(ii)
Undrilled locations can be classified as having undeveloped reserves only if a development plan has been adopted indicating that they are scheduled to be drilled within five years, unless the specific circumstances, justify a longer time.
(iii)
Under no circumstances shall estimates for undeveloped reserves be attributable to any acreage for which an application of fluid injection or other improved recovery technique is contemplated, unless such techniques have been proved effective by actual projects in the same reservoir or an analogous reservoir, as defined in paragraph (a)(2) of section 201.4-10(a) of Regulation S-X, or by other evidence using reliable technology establishing reasonable certainty.
The following table sets forth our oil reserves net of all royalties and third party interests as of December 31, 2009 (all quantities in thousands of barrels of oil). Probable reserves are those additional reserves that are less certain to be recovered than proved reserves but which, together with proved reserves, are as likely as not to be recovered. When deterministic methods are used, as they are in our case, it is as likely as not that actual remaining quantities recovered will exceed the sum of estimated proved plus probable reserves. Possible reserves are those additional reserves that are less certain to be recovered than probable reserves. When deterministic methods are used, the total quantities ultimately recovered from a project have a low probability of exceeding proved plus probable plus possible reserves.
*Liquids include oil and Natural Gas Liquids. We have Natural Gas Liquids reserves in small amounts in Argentina only. Colombia Liquids reserves are 100% oil.
Proved Undeveloped Reserves
In Colombia, our proved undeveloped reserves decreased from 8.7 million barrels at December 31, 2008 to 0.6 million barrels at December 31, 2009. All of these proved undeveloped reserves are located in our Costayaco field. The decrease is due to a movement from proved undeveloped reserves to proved developed reserves through the drilling of four development wells in 2009 (Costayaco 7 through 10), at a capital cost of approximately $30 million. The reserves remaining in the proved undeveloped category for Colombia are planned for development in 2011. Our proved undeveloped reserves in Argentina increased slightly from 187,000 barrels at December 31, 2008 to 211,000 barrels at December 31, 2009 due to a revision to forecast development activity. We expect to develop these reserves within the next three to four years.
Sensitivity of Reserves to Prices by Principal Product Type and Price Scenario
The price cases presented involve changes to the WTI price - one with a 10% increase, the second with a 10% decrease. Natural gas prices are not affected by WTI, therefore the volumes of natural gas reserves do not change. Additionally, the oil price in Argentina is set by the government as described in Item “1 Business” under the caption “Markets and Customers”. The price in Argentina is not sensitive to changes in the WTI price, therefore the price scenarios considered do not result in changes to oil and natural gas reserves for Argentina. Cost schedules were held constant for the two price cases.
Production Revenue and Price History
Certain information concerning oil and natural gas production, prices, revenues (net of all royalties) and operating expenses for the three years ended December 31, 2009 is set forth in Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and in the Unaudited Supplementary Data provided following our Financial Statements in Item 8. We prepared the estimate of standardized measure of proved reserves in accordance with the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) ASC 932, “Extractive Activities - Oil and Gas”.
Drilling Activities
The following table summarizes the results of our development and exploration drilling activity for the past three years. Wells labeled as “In Progress”, were in progress as of December 31, 2009.
Following are the results as of February 15, 2010 of wells in progress at December 31, 2009:
Well Statistics
The following table sets forth our producing wells as of December 31, 2009.
Developed and Undeveloped Acreage
The following table sets forth our developed and undeveloped oil and gas lease and mineral acreage as of December 31, 2009.
Our net developed acreage in Colombia includes acreage in the Santana block (less than 1%); the Guayuyaco block (4.9%); the Chaza block (10.7%); and the Magangue block (1.0%). Our net undeveloped arcreage in Colombia is in the Azar block (2.7%); the Piedemonte Norte block (10.5%); the Rumiyaco block (11.0%); the Mecaya block (1.5%); the Rio Magdalena block (3.8%); the Catguas block (39%); and the Garibay block (5.0%).
In Argentina, our net developed acreage includes acreage in the Palmar Largo block (3.7%); the Ipaguazu block (1.7%); the El Vinalar block (2.4%); the El Chivil block (2.4%); and the Valle Morado block (3.8%); the undeveloped acreage is in the Santa Victoria block (80.1%).
Item 3.