Item 2. Description of Property
The Marg Property
The Marg Property consists of 402 contiguous mineral claims covering approximately 20,000 acres. Access to the claim group is possible either by helicopter, based in Mayo, Yukon Territory, Canada, located approximately 80 km to the southwest or by small aircraft to a small airstrip located near the Marg deposit. A 50 kilometer winter road from Keno City to the property boundary was completed in 1997. The camp site on the property provides accommodation for up to 12 people. Presently the hydroelectric power grid terminates at Keno City some 50km to the southwest and water is available from the Keno Ladue River, which flows through the property.
The rock formations of the Marg property and the immediate area are divided into four major units which are repeated by southeast dipping thrust faults. The two major faults are the Tombstone Thrust and the Robert Service Thrust. One thrust panel contains the Marg Zone mineralization. Within the thrust panel he rocks within the thrust sheets appear to be tabular. The thrust panel containing the Marg Zone is composed of repeated sequences of quartzite, quartz-sericite phyllite and black graphite phyllite. The quartz-sericite phyllite is probably metamorphosed equivalents of volcanic rocks and metasedimentary rocks. The graphite phyllite is the metamorphosed equivalent of a black shale.
Our claims, held in the name of our wholly owned subsidiary “Yukon Gold Corp,” are registered in the Mining Recorders Office in the Mayo Mining District of the Yukon Territory and give us the right to explore and mine minerals from the property covered by the claims. These claims are tabulated below:
Marg Property Claims
held by
Yukon Gold Corp.
Marg Acquisition Agreement
The following is a description of the Company’s acquisition of the Marg property. During the period covered by this report, the Company completed its acquisition of the Marg property and currently owns it outright.
In March of 2005, our wholly owned Canadian subsidiary, YGC, acquired from Medallion Capital Corp. (“Medallion”) all of Medallion's rights to purchase and develop the Marg Property which consists of 402 contiguous mineral claims covering approximately 20,000 acres located in the central area of Yukon, Canada. The price paid by the Company was Medallion's cost to acquire the interest. Medallion is owned and controlled by a former director of the Company, Stafford Kelley. The rights acquired by YGC arise under a Property Purchase Agreement between Medallion and Atna Resources Ltd. (“Atna”), hereinafter referred to as the “Marg Acquisition Agreement.” Under the terms of the Marg Acquisition Agreement the Company paid $119,189 (CDN$150,000) cash and 133,333 common shares as a down payment. The Company made payments under the Marg Acquisition Agreement of $43,406 (CDN$50,000) cash and an additional 133,333 common shares of the Company on December 12, 2005; $86,805 (CDN$100,000) cash and an additional 133,334 common shares of the Company on December 12, 2006 and $98,697 (CDN$100,000) in cash on December 12, 2007. The Company agreed to make subsequent payments under the Agreement of: $167,645 (CDN$200,000) in cash and/or common shares of the Company (or some combination thereof to be determined) on or before December 12, 2008. On December 4, 2008 the Company and Atna Resources Ltd. (“Atna”) entered into a letter agreement (the “Amendment Agreement”) amending the purchase agreement by which the Company acquired its Marg Property (the “Marg Acquisition Agreement”). Under the terms of the Marg Acquisition Agreement the Company was required to pay to Atna $167,645 (CDN$200,000) (in cash or shares of the Company’s common stock) on December 12, 2008. In lieu of making such payment, the Amendment Agreement permitted the Company to pay Atna $19,980 (CDN$25,000) in cash on December 12, 2008 (paid) and $188,600 (CDN$225,000) (payable in cash or shares of the Company’s common stock) on April 30, 2009. On April 30, 2009, the Company issued to Atna 6,838,906 common shares which represent $188,600 (CDN$225,000), whereby the common shares were valued at $0.0276 (CDN $0.0329) each. Upon the commencement of commercial production at the Marg Property, the Company will pay to Atna $838,223 (CDN$1,000,000) in cash and/or common shares of the Company, or some combination thereof to be determined.
Our expenditures for exploration on the Marg Property are as follows: On May 16, 2006 the Company accepted a proposed work program, budget and cash call schedule for the Marg Property totaling $1,674,866 (CDN$1,872,500) for the 2006 Work Program. On May 15, 2006 the Company paid $199,016 (CDN$222,500) to the contractor, on June 1, 2006 the Company paid $536,673 (CDN$600,000) to the contractor, and on July 20, 2006 the Company paid $357,782 (CDN$400,000) to the contractor. The fourth payment of $357,782 (CDN$400,000) was paid on August 20, 2006 and the fifth payment of $223,613 (CDN$250,000) paid on September 20, 2006. On April 2, 2007 the Company accepted a proposed work program, budget and cash call schedule for the Marg project totaling $2,100,528 (CDN$2,281,880) for the 2007 Work Program. The Company had approximately $515,561(CDN$550,000) on deposit left over from the 2006 cash call schedule. On May 15, 2007 the Company paid $703,037 (CDN$750,000), on June 15, 2007 the Company paid $703,037 (CDN$750,000), and on July 15, 2007 the Company paid $703,037 (CDN$750,000) being three of the four cash call payments. The fourth and final payment of $402,244 (CDN$380,000) was paid on August 15, 2007. On August 31, 2007 the Company re-allocated $537,864 (CDN$508,120), being the balance of the third cash call payment for the Mount Hinton 2007 Work Program from cash call funds previously allocated to the Marg Project. These re-allocated funds were not needed for the Marg Project. As of January 23, 2008, unused funds of $388,524 (CDN$390,000) were refunded by our work program manager to the Company.
Exploration at Marg Property
The Marg property has had an extensive exploration history with numerous owners and work programs. The area was first staked in 1965 to follow-up anomalous results in a government stream sediment survey. The initial exploration was directed towards finding silver bearing veins but when none were discovered the claims were allowed to lapse. In 1982 the ground was re-staked by a consortium looking for “SEDEX” style lead-zinc mineralization and this resulted in the discovery of the Marg mineralization. In the following years, exploration consisted of geochemical and geophysical surveying, geological mapping, hand trenching and diamond drilling which progressively expanded the limits of the known mineralization. This work was done by various companies who entered into agreements to explore the ground or relinquish their interests. To date a total of 34,203 meters of diamond drilling has been performed on the Marg property.
Yukon Gold started its exploration efforts in 2005 when 1,184.6 meters were drilled in four holes. Exploration continued in 2006 and 2007 when nine holes totaling 2,986 meters and 3,307 were drilled respectively. The programs were managed by Archer Cathro & Associates (1981) and were designed to test the “down-dip” extent of the mineralization. During 2008 the company completed 3,674 metres of drilling in ten holes.
Three estimates on the Marg mineralization that are compliant with Canadian National Instrument No. 43-101 (“NI 43-101”) have been prepared. The first completed by P. Holbek (2005) used the polygonal method the in the second by G. Giroux and R. Carne (2007) used a block model method and the third by Scott Wilson RPA (2008) used a block model method. The Giroux and Carne estimate was based on copper equivalent cutoffs while the Holbek and Scott Wilson RPA estimates were based on NSR values as indicated. The Scott Wilson RPA estimate incorporated all drilling to the end of 2007 The mineralization is contained in four zones with strike lengths from 650 metres to 1,200 metres. Results of these two estimates are tabulated below:
The latest estimate, prepared by Scott Wilson RPA in July of 2008 was based on the following parameters:
1. The classification of mineral resources follows CIM Definition Standards for Indicated Resources.
2. Mineral resources have been estimated by kriging into blocks constrained by wireframed mineral lenses.
3. NSR values are based on assumed metallurgical recoveries of 60% for Cu, 80% for Zn, and 60% for Pb; and on metal prices of US$2.50 for Cu, US$0.90 for Zn, US$0.70 for Pb, US$13.50 for Ag and US$800 for Au; and foreign exchange of C$1.00=US$ 0.90.
We note that the terms “indicated resources” and “resources” (used above) refer to a standard that is recognized in Canada but is not accepted by the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) for disclosure purposes. Generally, an “indicated” or “inferred” estimate does not rise to the level of certainty required by SEC guidelines. A “resource” should not be confused with a “reserve,” which has been established using stricter guidelines and may carry an estimate of dollar value.
All previous operators employed Chemex Labs in Vancouver for their analytical work. In Yukon Gold’s 2006 to 2007 programs, all core sampling, collection of geotechnical data and core logging was done on site. Mineralized intervals were split and one-half was sent to ALS Chemex Labs, North Vancouver, B.C. Blank samples consisting of barren limestone were routinely inserted into the sample stream. Duplicate samples collected by quartering core were inserted into the sample stream. Prepared pulps and coarse rejects were sent as check samples to Acme Analytical Laboratories Ltd. in Vancouver. Reanalysis for results greater than 1% copper, lead or zinc were routinely carried out. The drill core is stored on the property at the camp location. The 2008 program also used the ALS Chemex Laboratories. Standard basemetal samples and blank samples were included with all shipments to the laboratory and duplicate, quarter-core samples were forwarded to G&T Metallurgical Services Ltd, from all mineralized intervals in order to provide check assays
At the laboratory, core samples were weighed, dried and crushed to 70% minus 2 mm, before a 250 g split was taken and pulverized to better than 85% minus 75 microns. A 10 gram split of the pulverized fraction was dissolved in aqua regia and analyzed for 50 elements by a combination of ICPMS and ICPAES techniques. Over limit copper, lead, zinc and silver values were determined using atomic absorption spectroscopy (AAS). A 30 gram split was analyzed for gold with a fire assay preparation and AAS finish. ALS Chemex operates according to the guidelines set out in ISO/IEC Guide 25 "General requirements for the competence of calibration and testing laboratories" and the company is certified to ISO 9002 by KPMG in Canada and other countries. Duplicate analyses were performed by Acme Analytical Laboratories in Vancouver using a process similar to Chemex for drilling between 2005 and 2008 and by G&T Metallurgical Services Ltd for the 2008 drilling.
Though the property is without known mineral reserves, Yukon Gold believes that exploration potential within the Marg Property is good. Presently the hydroelectric power grid terminates at Keno City some 50km to the southwest and water is available from the Keno Ladue River which flows through the property.
During the summer of 2008, we undertook an exploration program at the Marg Property to extend the currently known mineralization, verify continuity of mineralization and provide samples for initial metallurgical test work. The drilling results of the nine holes drilled at the Marg Property in the summer of 2008 are generally consistent with the previous results from prior drilling programs reflected in the Company’s mineral report. We continue to hit mineralized material to the west of known resources.
In November 2008, Yukon Gold announced the results of the 2008 diamond drill program The results of the drilling program are summarized below:
Again, the reader is cautioned that the terms “indicated” and “inferred” are not terms that are recognized by the SEC's guidelines for disclosure of mineral properties, however, they are recognized defined terms under Canadian disclosure guidelines. Generally, an “indicated” or “inferred” estimate does not rise to the level of certainty required by SEC guidelines. Also, the internal review was based on comparisons with proximate deposits and associated feasibility studies at then current metal prices, estimated trucking and shipping costs, industry treatment and refining costs, average metallurgical recoveries and concentrate grades from five VMS deposits. The internal review has not been analyzed by an independent Qualified Person and therefore the results of this review should not be relied upon. Yukon Gold believes that the internal review provides an indication of the potential of the Marg Deposit and is relevant to ongoing exploration.
GLOSSARY
In this annual report, we use certain capitalized and abbreviated terms, as well as technical terms, which are defined below.
Adit A horizontal or nearly horizontal passage driven from the surface for the purpose of the exploration or mining of a mineralized zone or ore body.
Air photo analysis Use of aerial photography to determine or estimate geological features.
Alluvial Material Eroded material such as soil, sand, granite and other materials above the bedrock.
Anomaly Pertaining to the data set resulting from geochemical or geophysical surveys; a deviation from uniformity or regularity.
Arenite General term for sedimentary rock consisting of sand-sized particles.
Assay To analyse the proportions of metals in a specimen of rock or other geological material. Results of a test of the proportions of metals in a specimen of rock or other geological material.
Bedding The arrangement of a sedimentary or metamorphic rock in beds or layers of varying thickness and character.
Bedrock A general term for the rock, usually solid, that underlies soil or other unconsolidated superficial material.
Break A general term used in mining geology for any discontinuity in the rock, such as a fault or fracture.
Bulldozer trenching A method of exposing bedrock by use of a bulldozer.
Channel sample A sample composed of pieces of vein or mineral deposit that have been cut out of a small trench or channel, usually about one inch deep and 4 inches wide.
Cirque A deep, steep walled, flat or gently floored, half bowl like recess, variously described as crescent shaped or semicircular in plan, typically situated high on the north side of a mountain and commonly at the head of a glacial valley, and produced by the erosive activity of mountain glaciers.
Coarse reject Pertaining to assay and geochemical analytical procedures where a rock sample is initially crushed before a subsample is separated for further analysis. The coarse reject may be retained for a check assay or for additional analysis.
Collar The start or beginning of a drill hole or the mouth of an underground working entrance.
crosscut n. An underground passage excavated across an ore body to test its width and value.
Devonian A geologic period of the Paleozoic era spanning from roughly 416 to 359 million years ago.
Diamond drilling The act or process of drilling boreholes using bits inset with diamonds as the rock cutting tool. The bits are rotated by various types and sizes of mechanisms motivated by electric, compressed air or internal combustion engines or motors.
Dip The angle at which a bed, stratum, vein or other structure is inclined from the horizontal, measured perpendicular to the strike and in the vertical plane.
Drill core A cylindrical or columnar piece of solid rock, usually 1 to 6 inches (2.5 cm to 40 cm) in diameter and less than 10 feet (3 m) in length, taken as a sample of an underground formation by a cylindrical drill bit, and brought to the surface for examination or analysis.
Drift n. A horizontal opening in or near a mineralized body and parallel to the long dimension of the vein or mineralized body. v. The act of excavating a drift.
Economic The portion of a mineralized body that can be profitably exploited.
Excavator trenching A method of exposing bedrock by use of a hydraulic excavator.
Fault A fracture or fracture zone in rock along which there has been displacement of the two sides relative to each other and parallel to the fracture.
Felsic a term used in geology to refer to silicate minerals, magmas, and rocks which are enriched in the lighter elements such as silicon, oxygen, aluminum, sodium, and potassium.
Float A general term for loose fragments of rock; especially on a hillside below an outcropping mineralized zone.
Float train A general term for the downslope distribution of float below a mineralized zone.
Foxhole A small pit excavated in overburden by hand to expose bedrock.
Fracture A general term for any break in a rock, whether or not it causes displacement.
Geochemical sampling The collection of soil, silt, vegetation or rock samples for analysis as a guide to the presence of areas of anomalous mineral of metal content in bedrock.
Geological mapping In mineral exploration, the collection of geological data such as the description and orientation of various types of bedrock.
Geophysical survey In mineral exploration, the collection of seismic, gravitational, electrical, radiometric, density or magnetic data to aid in the evaluation of the mineral potential of a particular area.
Graphitic Containing graphite.
Greenstone A general term applied to any compact dark green, altered or metamorphosed mafic igneous rock (e.g. gabbro or diorite).
g/t Abbreviation for gram per tonne; equivalent to one part per million (ppm).
Hand trenching A method of exposing bedrock by hand excavation.
Headwall A steep slope at the head of a valley, especially the rock cliff at the back of a cirque.
Hydrothermal Of or pertaining to hot water, to the action of hot water, or to the products of this action, such as a mineral deposit precipitated from a hot aqueous solution, with or without demonstrable association with igneous processes.
Igneous Said of a rock or mineral that solidified from molten or partly molten material; also applied to processes leading to, or resulting from the formation of such rocks.
Metallurgical test A general term for a number of mechanical or chemical processes that are employed to test the amenability of separating metals from their ores.
Metasedimentary A sediment or sedimentary rock that shows evidence of being subjected to metamorphism.
Mineralization The process or processes by which a mineral or minerals are introduced into a rock, resulting in an enriched deposit; or the result of these processes.
Mineralized Rock that has undergone the process of mineralization.
Mining camp A term loosely applied to an area of relatively abundant mines that have some relationship to each other in terms of the type of deposit or the variety of ore produced.
Mississippian An epoch of the Carboniferous Period lasting from roughly 360 to 325 million years ago.
Net Smelter Return royalty A general term for a residual benefit that is a percentage of the value for which a smelter will reimburse the provider of ore to the smelter, after deduction for various smelting fees and penalties and, often after cost of transportation has been deducted.
Ore The naturally occurring material from which a mineral or minerals of economic value can be extracted profitably or to satisfy social or political objectives.
Outcrop The part of a rock formation that appears at the surface of the ground.
Overburden Loose soil, sand, gravel, broken rock, etc. that lies above the bedrock.
oz/ton Abbreviation for troy ounce per ton.
Percussion drill Drilling method by which the drill bit falls by force or is driven by force into the bedrock.
Permafrost A permanently frozen layer of soil or subsoil, or even bedrock, which occurs to variable depths below the Earth's surface in arctic or subarctic regions.
Phyllite A type of foliated metamorphic rock primarily composed of quartz, sericite mica, and chlorite
Placer gold Gold occurring in more or less coarse grains or flakes and obtainable by washing the sand, gravel, etc. in which it is found. Also called alluvial gold.
Placer mining The extraction and concentration of heavy metals or minerals (usually gold) from alluvial deposits by various methods, generally using running water.
ppb Abbreviation for part per billion.
ppm Abbreviation for part per million.
Prospecting Pertaining to the search for outcrops or surface exposures of mineral deposits, primarily by nonmechanical methods.
Quartz A glassy silicate and common rock forming mineral (SiO2).
Quartz diorite A group of plutonic rocks having the composition of diorite but with appreciable quartz and feldspar, i.e. between 5 and 20%.
Quartz gabbro A group of plutonic rocks having the composition of gabbro but with appreciable quartz.
Quartzite A metamorphosed sandstone or rock composed of quartz grains so completely cemented with secondary silica that the rock breaks across or through the grains rather than around them.
Reserve That part of a mineral deposit which could be economically and legally extracted or produced at the time of the reserve determination.
Resource Pertaining to the quantity or bulk of mineralized material without reference to the economic viability of its extraction (see reserve).
Saddle A low point along the crestline of a ridge.
Sediment Fragmental material that originates from weathering of rocks and that is transported by air, water, ice or other natural agents, and that forms in layers on the Earth's surface at ordinary temperatures in a loose, unconsolidated form; e.g. silt, sand, gravel, etc.
Sedimentary rock A rock resulting from the consolidation of loose sediment.
Shaft An approximately vertical mine working of limited area compared with its depth.
Siderite A light or dark brown mineral of the calcite group (FeCO3).
Soil sampling (see Geochemical sampling).
Strata Beds or layers of rock.
Strike The course or bearing of the outcrop of an inclined bed, vein or fault plane on a level surface; the direction of a horizontal line perpendicular to the dip.
Trace Pertaining to assay values; as used in this report, this term refers to gold grades of less than 0.01 oz/ton (0.3 g/t).
Underground exploration The process of excavating underground workings and drilling from these excavations to establish the continuity, thickness and grade of a mineral deposit.
Vein An epigenetic mineral filling of a fault or other fracture in a host rock, in tabular or sheetlike form, often as a precipitate from a hydrothermal fluid.
Vein fault A term used in the Keno Hill mining camp to describe quartz vein material and associated fault gouge that are contained within a fault zone.
VLF-EM An abbreviation for the Very Low Frequency-Electromagnetic geophysical survey technique.
Weighted average Value calculated from a number of samples, each of which has been "weighted" by a factor of the individual sample width.
Working A general term for any type of excavation carried out during the course of mining or mining exploration.
Corporate Office
The Company’s corporate offices were located at 55 York Street, Suite 401, Toronto, Ontario M5J 1R7 until August 26, 2009. The Company entered into a five-year lease, which was executed on March 27, 2006. The lease commenced on July 1, 2006. Minimum lease commitments under the lease were as follows:
Following the period covered by this report, the Company defaulted under the lease and the landlord has reserved its legal rights. The Company’s mailing address, as of the date of this report is 139 Grand River Street, N., P.O. Box 510, Paris, Ontario N3L 3T6. The Company currently does not have corporate offices.
Item 3.