Item 2. Properties
The table below summarizes our properties into three groups. The developing fields consist of core properties that have a greater probability of adding new extensions and discoveries. The mature oil and gas fields are those properties that have a history of stable production rates and in which well performance is a function of field maintenance efficiency. During 2008, we participated in the drilling of 90 gross wells (72.1 net) in these areas and experienced a success rate of 99%.
The following table summarizes our estimated proved oil and gas reserves by area as of December 31, 2008 and our average daily production by area for calendar year 2008.
Developing Fields
The average daily production from our developing fields averaged 2,170 Boe per day (31.0% of the company total daily production) in 2008. We drilled a total of 23.0 gross wells (17.0 net) in 2008 and completed 100% as producers. Our drilling activity targeted the Vicksburg sands in South Texas, the Barnett Shale in North Texas, and the Devonian Shale in West Virginia. As of December 31, 2008, the proved reserves in our developing fields are 11.9 million Boe and account for 33% of our total proved reserves. The most significant fields within the developing fields group are noted as follows.
South Texas. During 2008, our net daily production from our South Texas properties averaged 1,625 Boe per day. We participated in drilling 3.0 gross wells (3.0 net) in our La Copita field in Star County, Texas and 2.0 gross well (2.0 net) in the West Lissie field in Wharton County, TX. All completions were successful and flowing gas at initial daily rates ranging from 250 Boe per day to over 500 Boe per day from the Vicksburg formation in Star County and over 67 Boe per day from the Wilcox formation in Wharton County, Texas. Our 2008 drilling program in the La Copita field added another 14 new proved undeveloped locations to our drilling inventory. The South Texas properties make up 27% (9.7 million Boe) of our total proved reserves and 82% of our reserves in our developing fields category. We operate 100% of these wells. We plan to drill 4.0 gross (3.5 net) Vicksburg wells in 2009 and 1.0 gross (1.0 net) Wilcox well in 2009.
Barnett Shale-Jack and Wise Counties Texas. We participated in drilling 7.0 gross wells (3.2 net) in 2008 on our Tier 1 Barnett Shale acreage in Wise and Jack Counties in the Fort Worth Basin of North Texas. All of these Barnett Shale wells were completed as producers for a 100% success rate. The average 2008 net daily production rate was 515 Boe per day (approximately 7% of our company’s 2008 average daily production). We have a large acreage position within a Participation Agreement with Devon Energy Corporation in which we have the right to participate with a 36% working interest in all wells proposed in the contract area. A total of 19.0 gross wells (7.0 net) have been drilled since the inception of the agreement. As of December 31, 2008 we estimated our proved reserves in our Tier 1 Barnett Shale area to be 2.6 million Boe, or 6% of our proved reserves.
Mature Oil Fields
We produced an average of 3,375 Boe per day from our mature oil fields during 2008. Proved reserves as of December 31, 2008 were 13.8 million Boe (38% of our total reserve base). Our mature oil fields are shallow oil fields that have historically exhibited very dependable production performance and have sizable long life reserves.
Northeast Fitts and Allen Field. During 2008, we participated in the drilling of 8.0 gross (7.2 net) infill wells in Pontotoc and Seminole Counties, Oklahoma. The North East Fitts field produces from shallow McAlester and Hunton formations at depths less than 4,250 feet. We are the operator of the units with approximately a 91% working interest. The North East Fitts field was waterflooded over time and we are evaluating the potential of re-establishing a more efficient injection profile to improve field production rates and ultimate recovery. The combined proved reserves from these two areas are 8.0 million Boe (22% of our proved reserves).
Electra/Burkburnett Fields. We drilled a total of 42.0 gross (42.0 net) wells during 2008 in Wichita and Wilbarger Counties, Texas and we have drilled more than 250 wells in these fields since November 1, 2004. We are planning on drilling another 45.0 gross (45.0 net) wells in 2009 and have a large inventory of more than 100 drilling locations. We own our own drilling rig and pulling units deployed exclusively for operations in these fields, and employ approximately 80 field personnel. At the same time we continue to ramp up our drilling program we are focusing on decreasing our cost to operate. We are also keying on low cost investment opportunities to achieve improved production performance such as recompletions, workovers, and improving water injection performance. As of December 31, 2008, the estimated proved reserves in these fields are 5.2 million Boe (14% of our total proved reserves).
Mature Gas Fields
We participated in drilling 14.0 gross (2.9 net) wells in our mature gas fields in 2008. The average daily production was 1,452 Boe per day during 2008, and the proved reserves are 10.4 million Boe (29% of the company’s total proved reserves). The proved reserves in our Boonsville field in Jack and Wise Counties, TX are estimated at 2.0 million Boe (6% of the total proved reserves). We also have production in the Lake Enfermer
field in Lafourche Parish, Louisiana. Our Louisiana reserves total 3.6 million Boe (10 % of our total proved reserves). Multiple recompletions are budgeted in the immediate future as we attempt to improve production.
The following table summarizes our 2008 drilling activity:
Development, Exploitation and Exploration Programs
Development and Exploitation Program. Our future production and performance depends to a large extent on the successful development of our existing reserves of oil and natural gas. We have identified multiple development projects on our existing properties (substantially all of which are located in our core areas), and these projects involve both the drilling of development wells and extension wells. We are the operator of leases covering approximately 2,600 of the wells in which we own interests, and as such we are able to control expenses, capital allocation and the timing of development activities on these properties. We also own interests in, and operate, 706 injection wells. During the year ended December 31, 2008, we drilled or participated in the drilling of 84.0 gross (67.0 net) development wells on our oil and gas properties. Capital expenditures in connection with these activities during this period aggregated approximately $57.1 million.
Another determinant of future performance is the exploitation of existing wells that can be recompleted or otherwise reworked to extract additional hydrocarbons. We have identified approximately 240 projects involving recompletions in existing wells, all of which involve reserves included in our proved reserves at December 31, 2008.
Exploration Program. Historically, an important component of our strategy to expand our reserves and production has been an active exploration program focused on adding long-lived oil and natural gas reserves from our core areas and other resource plays. During 2009, assuming the continuation of existing commodity prices for oil and natural gas, we expect to conduct only limited exploration activities. In our core areas, we own in excess of 200,000 gross (75,000 net) undeveloped leasehold acres (including options), which enhances our competitive exploration position and provides the foundation for future reserve additions.
We have an experienced technical staff, including geologists, landmen, engineers and other technical personnel devoted to prospect generation and identification of potential drilling locations. We seek to reduce exploration risk by exploring at moderate depths that are deep enough to discover sizeable oil and natural gas accumulations (generally less than 13,000 feet). Our established presence in our core areas has provided our staff with substantial expertise. Many of our exploration plays are based upon seismic data comparisons to our existing producing fields. For exploration prospects we generate, we typically will own a greater interest in these projects than our drilling partners, if any, and will operate the wells. As a result, we will be able to influence the areas of exploration and the acquisition of leases, as well as the timing and drilling of each well.
During the year ended December 31, 2008, we drilled or participated in the drilling of 6.0 gross (5.1 net) exploratory wells at a cost of approximately $10.5 million and incurred total capital expenditures of approximately $14.9 million for all exploration activities. At December 31, 2008, 2.0 gross (1.0 net) exploratory wells were awaiting completion and zero wells were dry holes. For 2009, we have budgeted $5.0 million for geological and geophysical activities relating to exploration projects and $5.0 million for leasehold acquisition for exploratory drilling.
Oil and Natural Gas Reserves
At December 31, 2008, our estimated net proved reserves were 36.2 million Boe, of which 40% were crude oil, 47% were natural gas, and 13% were NGLs, with a PV-10 Value of approximately $311.4 million before income taxes. Our estimated proved developed reserves comprised 60% of our total proved reserves, and our reserve life for total proved reserves is approximately 14.5 years.
The following table summarizes the estimates of our historical net proved reserves and the related present values of such reserves at the dates shown. The reserve and present value data for our oil and natural gas properties as of December 31, 2008 was prepared by the independent petroleum engineering firms of Williamson Petroleum Consultants, Inc. and Forrest A. Garb & Associates.
Estimated quantities of proved reserves and future net revenues therefrom are affected by oil and natural gas prices, which have fluctuated widely in recent years. There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating oil and natural gas reserves and their values, including many factors beyond the control of the producer. The reserve data set forth in this report represent only estimates. Reservoir engineering is a subjective process of estimating underground accumulations of oil and natural gas that cannot be measured in an exact manner. The accuracy of any reserve estimate is a function of the quality of available data and of engineering and geological interpretation and judgment. As a result, estimates of different engineers, including those used by us, may vary. In addition, estimates of reserves are subject to revisions based upon actual production, results of future development and exploration activities, prevailing oil and natural gas prices, operating costs and other factors, which revisions may be material. The PV-10 Value of our proved oil and natural gas reserves does not necessarily represent the current or fair market value of such proved reserves, and the 10% discount factor may not reflect current interest rates, our cost of capital or any risks associated with the development and production of our proved oil and natural gas reserves. Proved reserves include proved developed and proved undeveloped reserves.
The following is a summary of the standardized measure of discounted net cash flows using methodology provided for in Statement of Financial Accounting Standard No. 69, related to our estimated proved oil and
natural gas reserves. For these calculations, estimated future cash flows from estimated future production of proved reserves were computed using oil and natural gas spot prices as of the end of the period presented. Future development and production costs attributable to the proved reserves were estimated assuming that existing conditions would continue over the economic lives of the individual leases and costs were not escalated for the future. Estimated future income tax expenses were calculated by applying future statutory tax rates (based on the current tax law adjusted for permanent differences and tax credits) to the estimated future pretax net cash flows related to proved oil and natural gas reserves, less the tax basis of the properties involved. For further information regarding the standardized measure of discounted net cash flows related to our estimated proved oil and natural gas reserves for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, please review Note M in the notes to our year-end 2008 financial statements appearing elsewhere in this report.
The standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows relating to our estimated proved oil and natural gas reserves at December 31 is summarized as follows:
We believe that PV-10 Value before income taxes, while not a financial measure in accordance with GAAP, is an important financial measure used by investors and independent oil and natural gas producers for evaluating the relative significance of oil and natural gas properties and acquisitions due to tax characteristics, which can differ significantly, among comparable companies. The standardized measure represents the PV-10 Value after giving effect to income taxes, and is calculated in accordance with SFAS No. 69. The following table provides a reconciliation of our PV-10 Value to our standardized measure:
In general, the volume of production from oil and natural gas properties declines as reserves are depleted. Except to the extent we acquire properties containing proved reserves or conduct successful exploration and development activities, our proved reserves will decline as reserves are produced. Our future oil and natural gas production is, therefore, highly dependent upon our level of success in finding or acquiring additional reserves.
Net Production, Unit Prices and Costs
The following table presents certain information with respect to our oil and natural gas production and prices and costs attributable to all oil and natural gas properties owned by us for the periods shown. Average realized prices reflect the actual realized prices received by us, before and after giving effect to the results of our derivative contracts. Our derivative contracts are financial, and our production of oil, natural gas and NGLs, and the average realized prices we receive from our production, are not affected by our derivative contracts.
(1) Includes data with respect to Ascent Energy from November 29, 2007 through December 31, 2007.
Acquisition, Development and Exploration Capital Expenditures
The following table presents information regarding our net costs incurred in our acquisitions of proved and unproved properties, and our development and exploration activities (in thousands):
(1) Includes data with respect to Ascent Energy from November 29, 2007 through December 31, 2007.
Finding Costs
The following table sets forth the estimated proved reserves we acquired or discovered, including revisions of previous estimates, during each stated period. In calculating finding costs, we include acquisition costs related to proved property acquisitions, development costs, and exploration costs with respect to exploratory wells drilled and completed.
(1) Includes data with respect to Ascent properties from November 29, 2007 to December 31, 2007.
Producing Wells
The following table sets forth the number of productive wells in which we owned an interest as of December 31, 2008. Productive wells consist of producing wells and wells capable of production, including wells awaiting pipeline connections or connection to production facilities. Wells that we complete in more than one producing horizon are counted as one well.
Acreage
The following table sets forth our developed and undeveloped gross and net leasehold acreage, including options to acquire leasehold acreage, as of December 31, 2008:
Approximately 75% of our net acreage was located in our core areas as of December 31, 2008. Our undeveloped acreage includes leased acres on which wells have not been drilled or completed to a point that would permit the production of commercial quantities of oil and natural gas, regardless of whether or not such acreage is held by production or contains proved reserves. A gross acre is an acre in which we own an interest. A net acre is deemed to exist when the sum of fractional ownership interests in gross acres equals one. The number of net acres is the sum of the fractional interests owned in gross acres.
Drilling Activities
During the periods indicated, we drilled or participated in drilling the following wells:
(1) Does not include 7.0 gross (5.8 net) wells that were in the process of being completed at December 31, 2008.
(2) Does not include 11.0 gross (9.0 net) wells that were in the process of being completed at December 31, 2007.
(3) Does not include 3.0 gross (2.1 net) wells that were in the process of being completed at December 31, 2006.
Ascent Acquisition
On November 29, 2007, we acquired Ascent Energy in a cash and stock transaction valued at $303.8 million. Ascent was an independent oil and natural gas company engaged in the acquisition, exploration and development of both conventional and unconventional oil and natural gas properties in Texas, Oklahoma, Louisiana and the Appalachian region of West Virginia. The total consideration paid by us in connection with our acquisition of Ascent included 18,783,344 shares of our common stock, warrants to purchase 6,200,000 shares of our common stock at an exercise price of $5.00 per share, most of which were exercised prior to their expiration on May 11, 2008, and $203.0 million in cash (including $1.3 million of direct acquisition costs). The Ascent acquisition added 18.6 million Boe of proved reserves and approximately 3,000 Boe per day of current production, together with a significant number of additional drilling locations and further development opportunities.
Oil and Natural Gas Marketing and Derivative Activities
During the year ended December 31, 2008, Shell Trading (US) Company, or STUSCO, accounted for $97.4 million, or 53%, of our oil and natural gas revenue for that period. No other purchaser accounted for 10% or more of our oil and natural gas revenue during 2008. Our agreement with STUSCO, which covers all of our north Texas oil production through December 31, 2008, provided for payment, on a per barrel basis, of a price equal to STUSCO’s posted price for North Texas Sweet plus a premium of $3.25. Effective February 1, 2009, our price changed to STUSCO’s posted price for North Texas Sweet, plus or minus Platts Trade-month P+ (a fluctuating premium based on refinery demand), minus $1.50.
There are other purchasers in the fields and such other purchasers would be available to purchase our production should our current purchaser discontinue operations. We have no reason to believe that any such cessation is likely to occur.
To reduce exposure to fluctuations in oil and natural gas prices and to achieve more predictable cash flow, we periodically utilize various derivative strategies to manage the price received for a portion of our future oil and natural gas production. The notional volumes under our derivative contracts do not exceed our expected production. Our derivative strategies customarily involve the purchase of put options to provide a price floor for our production, put/call collars that establish both a floor and a ceiling price to provide price certainty within a fixed range, call options that establish a secondary floor above a put/call collar ceiling, or swap arrangements that establish an index-related price above which we pay the derivative counterparty and below which we are paid by the derivative counterparty. These contracts allow us to predict with greater certainty the effective oil and natural gas prices to be received for our production and benefit us when market prices are less than the base floor prices or swap prices under our derivative contracts. However, we will not benefit from market prices that are higher than the ceiling or swap prices in these contracts for our hedged production.
See “Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk” for further information about our derivative positions at December 31, 2008.
Competition
The oil and natural gas industry is highly competitive. We compete for the acquisition of oil and natural gas properties, primarily on the basis of the price to be paid for such properties, with numerous entities including major oil companies, other independent oil and natural gas concerns and individual producers and operators. Many of these competitors are large, well-established companies and have financial and other resources substantially greater than ours. Our ability to acquire additional oil and natural gas properties and to discover reserves in the future will depend upon our ability to evaluate and select suitable properties and to consummate transactions in a highly competitive environment.
Title to Properties
We believe that we have satisfactory title to our properties in accordance with standards generally accepted in the oil and natural gas industry. As is customary in the oil and natural gas industry, we make only a cursory review of title to farmout acreage and to undeveloped oil and natural gas leases upon execution of any contracts. Prior to the commencement of drilling operations, a title examination is conducted and curative work is performed with respect to significant defects. To the extent title opinions or other investigations reflect title defects, we, rather than the seller of the undeveloped property, typically are responsible to cure any such title defects at our expense. If we were unable to remedy or cure any title defect of a nature such that it would not be prudent for us to commence drilling operations on the property, we could suffer a loss of our entire investment in the property. We have obtained title opinions or reports on substantially all of our producing properties. Prior to completing an acquisition of producing oil and natural gas leases, we perform a title review on a material portion of the leases. Our oil and natural gas properties are subject to customary royalty interests, liens for current taxes and other burdens that we believe do not materially interfere with the use of or affect the value of such properties.
Facilities
Our executive and operating offices are located at Suite 650, Meridian Tower, 5100 E. Skelly Drive, Tulsa, Oklahoma 74135 which we occupy under a lease with a remaining term ending in January 2014, at an annual rental of approximately $0.4 million, subject to escalations for taxes and utilities. As a result of the Ascent acquisition, we acquired an executive and operating office at 4965 Preston Park Blvd., Suite 800, in Plano, Texas, subject to a lease extending through 2014. Currently, rent under the lease is approximately $0.7 million annually. We also lease a small office in Houston, Texas. We believe that our facilities are adequate for our current needs.
Regulation
General. Various aspects of our oil and gas operations are subject to extensive and continually changing regulation, as legislation affecting the oil and gas industry is under constant review for amendment or expansion. Numerous departments and agencies, both federal and state, are authorized by statute to issue, and have issued, rules and regulations binding upon the oil and gas industry and our individual members.
Regulation of Sales and Transportation of Natural Gas. The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, or the FERC, regulates the transportation and sale for resale of natural gas in interstate commerce pursuant to the Natural Gas Act of 1938 and the Natural Gas Policy Act of 1978. In the past, the federal government has regulated the prices at which natural gas can be sold. While sales by producers of natural gas can currently be made at uncontrolled market prices, Congress could reenact price controls in the future. Our sales of natural gas are affected by the availability, terms and cost of transportation. The price and terms for access to pipeline transportation are subject to extensive regulation and proposed regulation designed to increase competition within the natural gas industry, to remove various barriers and practices that historically limited non-pipeline natural gas sellers, including producers, from effectively competing with interstate pipelines for sales to local distribution companies and large industrial and commercial customers and to establish the rates interstate pipelines may charge for their services. Similarly, the Oklahoma Corporation Commission and the Texas Railroad Commission have been reviewing changes to their regulations governing transportation and gathering services provided by intrastate pipelines and gatherers. While the changes being considered by these federal and state regulators would affect us only indirectly, they are intended to further enhance competition in natural gas markets. We cannot predict what further action the FERC or state regulators will take on these matters; however, we do not believe that any actions taken will have an effect materially different than the effect on other natural gas producers with which we compete.
Additional proposals and proceedings that might affect the natural gas industry are pending before Congress, the FERC, state commissions and the courts. The natural gas industry historically has been very heavily regulated; therefore, there is no assurance that the less stringent regulatory approach recently pursued by the FERC and Congress will continue.
Oil Price Controls and Transportation Rates. Our sales of crude oil, condensate and natural gas liquids are not currently regulated and are made at market prices. The price we receive from the sale of these products may be affected by the cost of transporting the products to market.
Environmental. Our oil and natural gas operations are subject to pervasive federal, state, and local laws and regulations concerning the protection and preservation of the environment (e.g., ambient air, and surface and subsurface soils and waters), human health, worker safety, natural resources and wildlife. These laws and regulations affect virtually every aspect of our oil and natural gas operations, including our exploration for, and production, storage, treatment, and transportation of, hydrocarbons and the disposal of wastes generated in connection with those activities. These laws and regulations increase our costs of planning, designing, drilling, installing, operating, and abandoning oil and natural gas wells and appurtenant properties, such as gathering systems, pipelines, and storage, treatment and salt water disposal facilities.
We have expended and will continue to expend significant financial and managerial resources to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations, including permitting requirements. Our failure to comply with these laws and regulations can subject us to substantial civil and criminal penalties, claims for injury to persons and damage to properties and natural resources, and clean-up and other remedial obligations. Although we believe that the operation of our properties generally complies with applicable environmental laws and regulations, the risks of incurring substantial costs and liabilities are inherent in the operation of oil and natural gas wells and appurtenant properties. We could also be subject to liabilities related to the past operations conducted by others at properties now owned by us, without regard to any wrongful or negligent conduct by us.
We cannot predict what effect future environmental legislation and regulation will have upon our oil and natural gas operations. The possible legislative reclassification of certain wastes generated in connection with oil and natural gas operations as “hazardous wastes” would have a significant impact on our operating costs, as well as the oil and natural gas industry in general. The cost of compliance with more stringent environmental laws and regulations, or the more vigorous administration and enforcement of those laws and regulations, could result in material expenditures by us to remove, acquire, modify, and install equipment, store and dispose of wastes, remediate facilities, employ additional personnel, and implement systems to ensure compliance with those laws and regulations. These accumulative expenditures could have a material adverse effect upon our profitability and future capital expenditures.
Regulation of Oil and Gas Exploration and Production. Our exploration and production operations are subject to various types of regulation at the federal, state and local levels. Such regulations include requiring permits and drilling bonds for the drilling of wells, regulating the location of wells, the method of drilling and casing wells, and the surface use and restoration of properties upon which wells are drilled. Many states also have statutes or regulations addressing conservation matters, including provisions for the unitization or pooling of oil and natural gas properties, the establishment of maximum rates of production from oil and natural gas wells and the regulation of spacing, plugging and abandonment of such wells. Some state statutes limit the rate at which oil and natural gas can be produced from our properties.
Employees
At December 31, 2008, we had 202 employees, of whom 41 were administrative, accounting or financial personnel and of whom 161 were technical and operations personnel. Our exploration staff includes 3 exploration geologists and 6 landmen. Our future success will depend partially on our ability to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel. We are not a party to any collective bargaining agreement and we have not experienced any strikes or work stoppages. We consider our relations with our employees to be satisfactory.
Available Information
Copies of our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, are available free of charge through our website (www.ramenergy.com) as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file the material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. Our SEC filings are also available from the SEC’s website at: http://www.sec.gov. The references to our website address do not constitute incorporation by reference of the information contained on the website and should not be considered part of this report.
Item 3.