Item 2. Properties
The following is a description of each of our principal properties as of December 31, 2007, together with a general description of our miscellaneous and non-core properties.
Electra/Burkburnett Area. Our properties in the Electra/Burkburnett Area of north Texas include 26 leases covering 12,190 gross acres. As of December 31, 2007, we owned interests in approximately 1,658 wells in the Electra/Burkburnett Area, of which 573 were active producing wells and 227 were active injection wells.
We drilled more than 216 wells in the Electra/Burkburnett Area from November 1, 2004 through December 31, 2007, and, as of December 31, 2007, 150 drilling locations were booked as proved undeveloped locations. We estimate the average recoverable proved reserves attributable to each infill well remaining to be drilled in the Electra/Burkburnett Area should be approximately 22,000 Bbls of oil per well.
During the year ended December 31, 2007, we drilled 65 wells in the Electra/Burkburnett Area, of which 53 were completed as producing wells, four were dry holes and eight were in various stages of completion at the end of the year. We own a 100% working interest in and operate all 65 of the wells. The initial net daily production from wells drilled and completed during the year ended December 31, 2007 averaged 21 Bbls of oil. The average cost incurred by us to drill, complete and equip a producing well in our Electra/Burkburnett Area during the year ended December 31, 2007 was $136,000. In 2008 we expect to drill 60 additional wells in this area.
The Electra Field has produced millions of barrels of crude oil over the past 80 years. Our currently active wells in this field produce through secondary recovery (waterflood) operations. Well spacing has been decreased to two to three acre spacing in most areas to permit the recovery of bypassed oil and to improve waterflood operations.
Since January 1, 2002, a significant number of new infill and injection wells have been drilled on our Electra/Burkburnett Area leasehold, with a 99% success rate.
Approximately 30% of our wells in the Electra/Burkburnett Area are not equipped to gather casinghead gas, and this gas is vented at the wellhead. The remainder of our produced casinghead gas is processed at our 100% owned Electra Gas Plant, which is located approximately three miles northwest of Electra, Texas on lands leased by us. The term of the surface lease on which our Electra Gas Plant is located will continue for so long as the land is used for the Electra Gas Plant. We pay no rental under the terms of this lease. The plant receives approximately 650 Mcf per day of casinghead gas produced from our properties in the area. The gas is processed in a 1,400 Mcf per day capacity refrigeration unit where approximately 140 Bbls of NGLs per day, net to our interest, are extracted and sold. Approximately 250 Mcf per day of residue gas is used for compressor fuel at the plant, approximately the same volume is used to power recently installed field electric generators, and the remainder is flared due to a lack of pipeline facilities in the area.
We own and operate a drilling rig specifically for the purpose of facilitating our ongoing drilling program in the Electra/Burkburnett Area and have been using this rig and our own crew and equipment to drill from five to eight wells per month in the field. We also use our own personnel and equipment to perform routine maintenance on our properties and typically do not require third party vendor services. We own our own pulling units, earthmoving equipment, tank trucks and other field equipment to ensure availability and facilitate operations in the field. We employ approximately 65 field employees dedicated to our Electra/Burkburnett operations, all of which work out of our field office in the town of Electra.
We sell the crude oil produced from our Electra/Burkburnett Area properties to Shell Trading (US) Company (STUSCO). From January 1, 2007 through June 30, 2007, the price we received was the STUSCO WTI posted price plus a premium of $1.30 per Bbl. From July 1, 2007 to December 31, 2007, we received a price equal to the Valero North Texas Sweet posted price plus a premium of $1.50 per Bbl. Effective January 1, 2008 our price increased to the STUSCO North Texas Sweet posted price plus $3.25 per Bbl.
During the year ended December 31, 2007, the aggregate net production attributable to our interest in the Electra/Burkburnett properties was 575,882 Bbls of oil and 51,367 Bbls of NGLs, or 627,249 Boe, and the average daily production for the period was 1,578 Bbls of oil and 141 Bbls of NGLs, or 1,718 Boe per day.
Pontotoc County, Oklahoma. We acquired our Pontotoc County, Oklahoma properties as part of our acquisition of Ascent Energy. These properties include:
Northeast Fitts Unit. The Northeast Fitts Unit is located in southern Pontotoc County. This field produces oil primarily from two reservoirs, the McAlester Lower Pennsylvanian Sandstone at approximately 1,300 feet in depth and the Hunton Devonian Limestone at approximately 3,900 feet in depth. In 2002, Ascent initiated a waterflood recompletion on the deeper Hunton interval and began an infill drilling program to ten acre spacing in 2003. Currently, our production in the Hunton interval comes from primary depletion drive oil and natural gas reserves as a result of Ascent’s drilling program, which commenced in late 2002. We are the operator of this unit with a working interest of approximately 91%. We own interests in approximately 1,010 gross (909 net) leasehold acres and 90 producing wells in the Northeast Fitts Unit. During 2007, the aggregate net production attributable to our interest in the Northeast Fitts Unit properties was 198,510 Bbls of oil, 130 MMcf of natural gas, and 9,422 Bbls of NGLs, or 229,572 Boe, and average daily production for the period was 544 Bbls of oil, 356 Mcf of natural gas and 26 Bbl of NGLs, or 629 Boe per day. In 2008, we expect to drill nine new wells in this Unit and convert several well bores to injection wells to enhance the potential recovery rates.
Allen Field. The Allen field is located in Pontotoc and Seminole Counties. We also hold leasehold interests in the Byng field, the Roper Beebee field and other minor fields in Pontotoc County, which are all part of the Allen Anticline trend. We operate the wells in which we have an interest within the Allen field with working interests ranging from 50% to 100%. We currently use our Pontotoc Gas Gathering System, operated by our wholly owned subsidiary, Pontotoc Gathering, L.L.C., to transport substantially all of our natural gas produced from this field. We own interests in approximately 21,877 gross (10,142 net) leasehold acres and 247 producing wells in the Allen Anticline trend. During 2007, the aggregate net production attributable to our interest in the Allen Anticline properties was 175,227 Bbls of oil and 141 MMcf of natural gas, or 198,699 Boe, and average daily production for the period was 480 Bbls of oil and 386 Mcf of natural gas, or 544 Boe per day. In 2008, we expect to drill three new wells and conduct recompletion operations on an additional four wells on our Allen Field properties.
South Texas. We acquired our South Texas properties as part of our acquisition of Ascent Energy. These properties, which are located in Starr, Wharton and Duval Counties, Texas, include leasehold interests in approximately 3,902 gross (3,010 net) acres in the Vicksburg trend and approximately 3,254 gross (3,072 net) acres in the Wilcox trend, including other producing acreage in the region. We are the operator of this acreage with working interests ranging from 50% to 100%. As of December 31, 2007, we operated 43 producing wells in this region.
•
Vicksburg Trend. The La Copita field is located in the Vicksburg trend in east-central Starr County. We are the operator of this field with working interests ranging from 53% to 100%. We have 3-D seismic data over a significant portion of this field. In 2008, we expect to drill four new wells and conduct recompletion operations on an additional well.
•
Wilcox Trend. The Rosita field is located in Duval County and the New Taiton field is located in Wharton County in the Wilcox trend. We are the operator of these fields with working interests ranging from 50% to 100%. We have 3-D seismic data over a significant portion of these fields. In 2008, we expect to drill three new wells in the New Taiton field.
Boonsville Area. The Boonsville Area is located in the Fort Worth Basin of north central Texas in Jack and Wise Counties. Our leasehold in the area covers approximately 9,950 gross acres lying within the much larger Boonsville Field, which includes several hundred thousand acres.
Our properties in Jack and Wise Counties are comprised of two discrete subsets: the shallow gas zones and the Barnett Shale acreage. Because a considerable portion of our leasehold in the area is segregated with respect to rights above and below the Marble Falls formation, a prominent geologic marker in the area, and our substantially undeveloped Barnett Shale acreage (which lies below the Marble Falls) represents a distinct property requiring drilling, completion and production techniques quite dissimilar from the shallow gas producing zones, we treat our Barnett Shale acreage as a separate major property. We consider the Boonsville Area to include only the properties described herein as the shallow gas zones. Our Barnett Shale acreage is discussed separately below.
Our oil and natural gas production from the Boonsville Area is derived principally from sands found at depths ranging from 3,800 feet to 6,100 feet. We own working interests in 89 wells producing from these shallow gas zones and operate all but one of such wells.
We own and operate an extensive gas gathering system in the field which gathers gas solely from our wells. The gas is compressed in the field through compression facilities also owned by us, and then is delivered into a system owned and operated by a third party for delivery to the Chico gas processing plant, where the natural gas is processed for the extraction of NGLs. We currently receive 85% of both the residue gas and the NGLs attributable to our share of delivered volumes.
During the year ended December 31, 2007, the aggregate net production attributable to our working interests in the Boonsville shallow gas properties (above the Marble Falls) was 13,392 Bbls of oil, 369 MMcf of natural gas and 74,813 Bbls of NGLs, or 149,269 Boe, and average daily production for the period was 37 Bbls of oil, 1,010 Mcf of natural gas and 205 Bbls of NGLs, or 410 Boe per day.
In 2008, we expect to drill two wells and conduct recompletion operations on 10 existing wells on our Boonsville properties. Currently, there are 20 drilling locations identified as proved undeveloped locations. We are also actively pursuing a workover program in our existing wells to maximize production and take advantage of opportunities in other potentially productive zones in existing well bores that present attractive recompletion targets.
Shale Acreage. We own leasehold interests and interests in wells in the following unconventional shale plays:
Barnett Shale - Jack and Wise Counties Texas. We own leases covering approximately 27,700 gross (6,800 net) acres of Tier 1 Barnett Shale rights in Jack and Wise Counties in the Fort Worth Basin of north central Texas, all of which are held by production from wells completed in the shallow gas zones. The Fort Worth Basin Barnett Shale play currently is the largest natural gas play in Texas and one of the leading natural gas plays in the United States. The core area of the play is in Denton, Wise and Tarrant Counties, lying just to the east-southeast of our acreage. The most productive wells in the Barnett Shale play are wells that have been drilled horizontally. The average cost of drilling and completing a horizontal well to the Barnett Shale is approximately $2.9 million.
We are a party to two separate agreements covering our Tier 1 Barnett Shale acreage position:
•
Approximately 3,500 gross acres are subject to a Participation Agreement with Devon Energy Corporation in which we have the right to participate with a 36% working interest in each well proposed to be drilled on the contract area. The agreement is on a “drill-to-earn” basis, which means that Devon can earn a 50% working interest and a 40% net revenue interest in a particular lease by drilling and paying its proportionate share of the costs of a well on lands covered by the lease. This agreement includes a continuous drilling obligation, requiring Devon to commence a new well within 120 days after the filing of a completion report on the preceding well, failing which Devon’s right to earn under the agreement will terminate, and Devon’s interests in undrilled acreage will revert to us. Through December 31, 2007, six horizontal wells have been drilled under the agreement and completed as commercially productive in the Barnett Shale. Devon recently completed two additional wells that are waiting on pipeline connections and is in the process of completing a third additional well. Devon currently is drilling a fourth well and has proposed four additional new wells on our jointly owned acreage, and we expect to participate in all four proposed wells.
•
Approximately 23,500 gross acres are committed to an agreement with EOG Resources, Inc. In April 2004, we entered into a purchase and sale agreement with EOG, under which EOG purchased from us an undivided 50% working interest and a 40.6% net revenue interest in certain oil and natural gas leases comprising a portion of our Barnett Shale acreage. After giving effect to the sale to EOG, we retained a 23.9% working interest in the subject leases. Currently, our net revenue interest in our Barnett Shale acreage subject to the EOG Agreement is approximately 18%. Through December 31, 2007, EOG has drilled two wells on our Barnett Shale acreage, both of which were completed as commercially productive wells. EOG recently completed a third well and began selling production in March 2008. We expect to commence the drilling of, and operate, a well on this acreage in the second quarter of 2008.
During the year ended December 31, 2007, the aggregate net production attributable to our interest in our currently producing Tier 1 Barnett Shale wells was 5,224 Bbls of oil, 451 MMcf of natural gas, and 33,794 Bbls of NGLs, or 114,249 Boe. The average daily production for the period was 14 Bbls of oil and 1,237 Mcf of natural gas, and 93 Bbls of NGLs, or 313 Boe per day.
We currently have 11 proved undeveloped drilling locations on this acreage that have been established by prior drilling. In addition, our ongoing review of seismic data supports 71 additional drilling locations in the EOG block and 12 additional drilling locations in the Devon block as of year end 2007.
We continue to acquire and interpret seismic data covering this portion of our Barnett Shale acreage. Currently, we own 45 square miles of 3-D seismic data and expect to acquire an additional 20 square miles of 3-D seismic data during 2008. We own an interest in 12 (gross) Barnett Shale producing wells, two of which are operated by us, seven of which are operated by Devon Energy and three of which are operated by EOG.
Barnett Shale-Bosque and Hamilton Counties, Texas. As part of our Ascent acquisition, we acquired leasehold interests in approximately 26,267 gross (20,802 net) acres in Bosque and Hamilton Counties, Texas, which is in the Tier 2 Barnett Shale development area. We also acquired approximately 40 square miles of 3-D seismic covering this leasehold acreage. At November 29, 2007, Ascent had drilled, but had not completed, two horizontal wells on this acreage. We plan to conduct completion operations on these wells in 2008 in an effort to establish commercial production.
Appalachian Devonian Shale-Mason and Cabell Counties, West Virginia. As part of our Ascent acquisition, we acquired leasehold interests and wells in approximately 46,835 gross (44,987 net) acres in Mason and Cabell Counties, West Virginia. The Devonian Shale formation in this area has an average thickness of over 1,000 feet at depths ranging form 3,400 to 4,500 feet. The Devonian Shale formation has been subject to industry activity in Ohio, Kentucky and Pennsylvania, as well as in West Virginia. Ascent drilled and completed eight wells on its Appalachian leasehold, five of which were vertical wells, one of which was a slant hole and two were short length horizontal wells. We recently initiated sales of natural gas from six of these wells at an average daily rate of approximately 300 Mcf per day. We expect to drill 14 horizontal wells in this area in 2008. Our estimated per well costs are expected to range from $1.1 million to $1.3 million plus an additional $100,000 for gathering and transportation facilities.
Woodford and Caney Shales-Southeast Oklahoma. Also as part of our Ascent acquisition, we acquired leasehold interests covering approximately 7,257 gross (1,842 net) acres in the Woodford shale and approximately 3,848 gross (2,850 net) acres in the Caney shale in various locations in Pittsburg, Hughes and McIntosh Counties, Oklahoma. We have not allocated funds for the development of this acreage in our 2008 budget but are continuing to evaluate our leases on a case by case basis as other wells targeting these shales are drilled in the area.
Other Properties
In addition to our principal fields and core operating areas, we also own interests in other properties located in Texas, Oklahoma, Mississippi, Louisiana, Kansas, New Mexico, Wyoming, Arkansas and offshore California.
We own a significant number of properties scattered throughout the principal producing basins in Oklahoma and are actively seeking exploration and development opportunities within these areas.
In Texas, in addition to the Electra/Burkburnett and Boonsville Area properties, we own miscellaneous operated and non-operated interests in 599 producing wells across the state, from the Panhandle down through the Permian Basin to South Texas, and eastward to Louisiana.
We are continuing to produce and evaluate our two 100%-owned vertical wells in our southwest Texas Wolfcamp project. These wells currently are producing at a combined rate of approximately 100 Mcf per day. We have preliminary plans to drill a horizontal well on this leasehold in 2008.
We also participated in six gross (0.7 net) exploratory wells in the Arkoma Basin during 2007, all but one of which were successfully completed.
Development, Exploitation and Exploration Programs
Development and Exploitation Program. Our future production and performance depends to a large extent on the successful development of our existing reserves of oil and natural gas. We have identified multiple development projects on our existing properties (substantially all of which are located in our core areas), and these projects involve both the drilling of development wells and extension wells. We are the operator of leases covering approximately 2,900 of the wells in which we own interests, and as such we are able to control expenses, capital allocation and the timing of development activities on these properties. We also own interests in, and operate, 591 injection wells. During the year ended December 31, 2007, we drilled or participated in the drilling of 67 gross (65.7 net) development wells on our oil and gas properties, 63 of which were either successfully completed as producing wells, were still drilling, or were awaiting completion at the end of that period. Capital expenditures in connection with these activities during this period aggregated approximately $11.1 million.
Another determinant of future performance is the exploitation of existing wells that can be re-completed or otherwise reworked to extract additional hydrocarbons. We have identified 307 projects involving re-completions of existing wells, all of which involve reserves included in our proved reserves at December 31, 2007. During the year ended December 31, 2007, we conducted or participated in recompletion/workover operations on five of our existing wells, resulting in the reestablishment or enhancement of production from all five of these wells. Our capital expenditures in connection with these recompletion operations aggregated approximately $130,000.
Exploration Program. An important component of our strategy to expand our reserves and production includes an exploration program focused on adding long-lived oil and natural gas reserves from our core areas and other resource plays. We intend to maintain an exploration focus in our core areas, while remaining opportunistic with respect to other exploration concepts. These additional exploration concepts include pursuing opportunities in tight gas and other unconventional natural gas plays. In our core areas, we own in excess of 200,000 gross (75,000 net) undeveloped leasehold acres (including options), which enhances our competitive exploration position and provides the foundation for future reserve additions.
We have an experienced technical staff, including geologists, landmen, engineers and other technical personnel devoted to prospect generation and identification of potential drilling locations. We seek to reduce exploration risk by exploring at moderate depths that are deep enough to discover sizeable oil and natural gas accumulations (generally less than 13,000 feet). Our established presence in our core areas has provided our staff with substantial expertise. Many of our exploration plays are based upon seismic data comparisons to our existing producing fields. While we will maintain this focus, we plan to broaden our exposure and be opportunistic in pursuing growth-oriented exploration plays in other basins, primarily on an operated basis. For exploration prospects we generate, we typically will own a greater interest in these projects than our drilling partners, if any, and will operate the wells. As a result, we will be able to influence the areas of exploration and the acquisition of leases, as well as the timing and drilling of each well.
During the year ended December 31, 2007, we drilled or participated in the drilling of 14 gross (2.7 net) exploratory wells at a cost of approximately $3.9 million and incurred total capital expenditures of approximately $7.7 million for all exploration activities. At December 31, 2007, one gross (0.2 net) exploratory well was awaiting completion and three gross (0.5 net) wells were dry holes.
Oil and Natural Gas Reserves
At December 31, 2007, our estimated net proved reserves were 39.4 million Boe, of which 50% were crude oil, 39% were natural gas, and 11% were NGLs, with a PV-10 Value of approximately $911.5 million before income taxes. Our estimated proved developed reserves comprised 63% of our total proved reserves, and our reserve life for total proved reserves was approximately 14 years.
The following table summarizes the estimates of our historical net proved reserves and the related present values of such reserves at the dates shown. The reserve and present value data for our oil and natural gas properties as of December 31, 2007 was prepared by the independent petroleum engineering firms of Williamson Petroleum Consultants, Inc. and Forrest A. Garb & Associates.
Estimated quantities of proved reserves and future net revenues therefrom are affected by oil and natural gas prices, which have fluctuated widely in recent years. There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating oil and natural gas reserves and their values, including many factors beyond the control of the producer. The reserve data set forth in this report represent only estimates. Reservoir engineering is a subjective process of estimating underground accumulations of oil and natural gas that cannot be measured in an exact manner. The accuracy of any reserve estimate is a function of the quality of available data and of engineering and geological interpretation and judgment. As a result, estimates of different engineers, including those used by us, may vary. In addition, estimates of reserves are subject to revisions based upon actual production, results of future development and exploration activities, prevailing oil and natural gas prices, operating costs and other factors, which revisions may be material. The PV-10 Value of our proved oil and natural gas reserves does not necessarily represent the current or fair market value of such proved reserves, and the 10% discount factor may not reflect current interest rates, our cost of capital or any risks associated with the development and production of our proved oil and natural gas reserves. Proved reserves include proved developed and proved undeveloped reserves.
The following is a summary of the standardized measure of discounted net cash flows using methodology provided for in Statement of Financial Accounting Standard No. 69, related to our estimated proved oil and natural gas reserves. For these calculations, estimated future cash flows from estimated future production of proved reserves were computed using oil and natural gas spot prices as of the end of the period presented. Future development and production costs attributable to the proved reserves were estimated assuming that existing conditions would continue over the economic lives of the individual leases and costs were not escalated for the future. Estimated future income tax expenses were calculated by applying future statutory tax rates (based on the current tax law adjusted for permanent differences and tax credits) to the estimated future pretax net cash flows related to proved oil and natural gas reserves, less the tax basis of the properties involved. For further information regarding the standardized measure of discounted net cash flows related to our estimated proved oil and natural gas reserves for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2006 and 2007, please review note P in the notes to our year-end 2007 financial statements appearing elsewhere in this report.
The standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows relating to our estimated proved oil and natural gas reserves at December 31 is summarized as follows:
In general, the volume of production from oil and natural gas properties declines as reserves are depleted. Except to the extent we acquire properties containing proved reserves or conduct successful exploration and development activities, our proved reserves will decline as reserves are produced. Our future oil and natural gas production is, therefore, highly dependent upon our level of success in finding or acquiring additional reserves.
Net Production, Unit Prices and Costs
The following table presents certain information with respect to our oil and natural gas production and prices and costs attributable to all oil and natural gas properties owned by us for the periods shown. Average realized prices reflect the actual realized prices received by us, before and after giving effect to the results of our derivative contracts. Our derivative contracts are financial, and our production of oil, natural gas and NGLs, and the average realized prices we receive from our production, are not affected by our derivative contracts.
(1) Includes data with respect to Ascent Energy from November 29, 2007 through December 31, 2007.
Acquisition, Development and Exploration Capital Expenditures
The following table presents information regarding our net costs incurred in our acquisitions of proved and unproved properties, and our development and exploration activities (in thousands):
Finding Costs
The following table sets forth the estimated proved reserves we acquired or discovered, including revisions of previous estimates, during each stated period. In calculating finding costs, we include acquisition costs related to proved property acquisitions, development costs, and exploration costs with respect to exploratory wells drilled and completed.
(1) Includes data with respect to Ascent properties from November 29, 2007 to December 31, 2007.
Producing Wells
The following table sets forth the number of productive wells in which we owned an interest as of December 31, 2007. Productive wells consist of producing wells and wells capable of production, including wells awaiting pipeline connections or connection to production facilities. Wells that we complete in more than one producing horizon are counted as one well.
Acreage
The following table sets forth our developed and undeveloped gross and net leasehold acreage, including options to acquire leasehold acreage, as of December 31, 2007:
Approximately 73% of our net acreage was located in our core areas as of December 31, 2007. Our undeveloped acreage includes leased acres on which wells have not been drilled or completed to a point that would permit the production of commercial quantities of oil and natural gas, regardless of whether or not such acreage is held by production or contains proved reserves. A gross acre is an acre in which we own an interest. A net acre is deemed to exist when the sum of fractional ownership interests in gross acres equals one. The number of net acres is the sum of the fractional interests owned in gross acres.
Drilling Activities
During the periods indicated, we drilled or participated in drilling the following wells:
(1) Does not include three gross (2.1 net) wells that were in the process of being completed at December 31, 2006. One gross (0.1 net) well was subsequently completed as a commercially productive well.
(2) Does not include 11 gross (9.0 net) wells that were in the process of being completed at December 31, 2007.
Ascent Acquisition
On November 29, 2007, we completed the Ascent acquisition. The total consideration paid by us in connection with our acquisition of Ascent included 18,783,344 shares of our common stock and warrants to purchase 6,200,000 shares of our common stock at an exercise price of $5.00 per share, exercisable at any time on or prior to May 11, 2008, and $203 million in cash (including $1.0 million of direct acquisition costs), of which $20.0 million was placed in escrow as a source of funds to adjust for Ascent’s closing date working capital and to indemnify us against, among other things, breaches of covenants, representations and warranties by Ascent. The total consideration included amounts paid to certain holders of Ascent’s outstanding indebtedness, amounts necessary to settle and close all of Ascent’s outstanding oil and natural gas hedging contracts, and payments to holders of all of Ascent’s outstanding preferred stock and common stock.
Ascent was an independent oil and natural gas company engaged in the acquisition, exploration and development of both conventional and unconventional oil and natural gas properties in Texas, Oklahoma, Louisiana and the Appalachian region.
As of November 29, 2007, most of Ascent’s current production was from approximately 31,515 gross acres (18,938 net acres) of developed conventional oil and natural gas properties in Texas, Oklahoma and Louisiana.
Based on reserve reports prepared by our independent reserve engineering firms, Ascent’s total proved reserves as of December 31, 2007 were approximately 18.9 MMBoe, of which 42% were proved developed producing, 8% were proved developed non-producing and 50% were proved undeveloped. As of December 31, 2007, 49% of Ascent’s total proved reserves were oil and NGLs. As of December 31, 2007, Ascent had interests in approximately 106,886 net acres, including approximately 87,280 net undeveloped acres.
Oil and Natural Gas Marketing and Derivative Activities
During the year ended December 31, 2007, two purchasers accounted for approximately 62% of our oil and natural gas revenue. Shell Trading-US accounted for $40.9 million, or 54%, and Targa Midstream Services, or Targa (formerly, Dynegy) accounted for $5.8 million, or 8%, of our oil and natural gas revenue for that period. No other purchaser accounted for 10% or more of our oil and natural gas revenue during 2007. Our agreement with Shell Trading-US, or STUSCO, which covers all of our north Texas oil production through June 30, 2007 provided for payment, on a per barrel basis, of a price equal to STUSCO’s posted price for West Texas Intermediate Crude, plus Platt’s Trade-month P+ (a fluctuating premium based on refinery demand), plus $1.30. From July 1, through December 31, 2007 the price we have received, on a per barrel basis, was the Valero posted price for North Texas Sweet plus a premium of $1.50. Effective January 1, 2008, our price increased to the STUSCO North Texas Sweet crude posted price plus $3.25 per Bbl. Our gas purchase contract with Targa, which expires February 1, 2013, covers our predominately natural gas producing properties located in Jack and Wise Counties, Texas. Under the terms of the contract, Targa takes delivery of our gas in the field and transports the gas to the nearby Chico Plant where it is processed for the extraction of liquefiable hydrocarbons. We take redelivery at the tailgate of the plant of 85% of the residue gas attributable to our production and sell the residue gas on the spot market. Targa pays us 85% of the weighted average price received by Targa for the sale of natural gas liquids attributable to the gas delivered by us. There are other purchasers in the fields and such other purchasers would be available to purchase our production should either of our current two purchasers discontinue operations. We have no reason to believe that any such cessation is likely to occur. However, if the Chico Plant were to cease operations, whether for mechanical, financial or other reasons, such cessation could materially and adversely affect our cash flow from operations on a temporary basis, until a new purchaser could install the necessary facilities to take delivery of our natural gas production in the area. We have no reason to believe that any such cessation is likely to occur.
To reduce exposure to fluctuations in oil and natural gas prices and to achieve more predictable cash flow, we periodically utilize various derivative strategies to manage the price received for a portion of our future oil and natural gas production. The notional volumes under our derivative contracts do not exceed our expected production. Our derivative strategies customarily involve the purchase of put options to provide a price floor for our production, put/call collars that establish both a floor and a ceiling price to provide price certainty within a fixed range, call options that establish a secondary floor above a put/call collar ceiling, or swap arrangements that establish an index-related price above which we pay the derivative counterparty and below which we are paid by the derivative counterparty. These contracts allow us to predict with greater certainty the effective oil and natural gas prices to be received for our production and benefit us when market prices are less than the base floor prices or swap prices under our derivative contracts. However, we will not benefit from market prices that are higher than the ceiling or swap prices in these contracts for our hedged production.
Our derivative positions at December 31, 2007 are shown in the following table:
Crude oil floors and ceilings and natural gas floors and ceilings for 2008 cover the calendar year. Crude oil bare floors for 2008 cover the calendar year. Crude oil floors and ceilings for 2009 cover the calendar year, and natural gas floors and ceilings for 2009 cover January through September. Crude oil secondary floors for 2009 cover January through March. Crude oil bare floors for 2009 cover January through June. Crude oil floors and ceilings for 2010 cover January through March.
Competition
The oil and natural gas industry is highly competitive. We compete for the acquisition of oil and natural gas properties, primarily on the basis of the price to be paid for such properties, with numerous entities including major oil companies, other independent oil and natural gas concerns and individual producers and operators. Many of these competitors are large, well-established companies and have financial and other resources substantially greater than ours. Our ability to acquire additional oil and natural gas properties and to discover reserves in the future will depend upon our ability to evaluate and select suitable properties and to consummate transactions in a highly competitive environment.
Title to Properties
We believe that we have satisfactory title to our properties in accordance with standards generally accepted in the oil and natural gas industry. As is customary in the oil and natural gas industry, we make only a cursory review of title to farmout acreage and to undeveloped oil and natural gas leases upon execution of any contracts. Prior to the commencement of drilling operations, a title examination is conducted and curative work is performed with respect to significant defects. To the extent title opinions or other investigations reflect title defects, we, rather than the seller of the undeveloped property, typically are responsible to cure any such title defects at our expense. If we were unable to remedy or cure any title defect of a nature such that it would not be prudent for us to commence drilling operations on the property, we could suffer a loss of our entire investment in the property. We have obtained title opinions or reports on substantially all of our producing properties. Prior to completing an acquisition of producing oil and natural gas leases, we perform a title review on a material portion of the leases. Our oil and natural gas properties are subject to customary royalty interests, liens for current taxes and other burdens that we believe do not materially interfere with the use of or affect the value of such properties.
Facilities
Our executive and operating offices are located at Suite 650, Meridian Tower, 5100 E. Skelly Drive, Tulsa, Oklahoma 74135 which we occupy under a lease with a remaining term ending in January 2014, at an annual rental of $288,728, subject to escalations for taxes and utilities. As a result of the Ascent Acquisition, we acquired an executive and operating office at 4965 Preston Park Blvd., Suite 800, in Plano, Texas, subject to a lease extending through 2013. Currently, rent under the lease is approximately $578,000 annually. We also lease a small office in Houston, Texas. We believe that our facilities are adequate for our current needs.
Regulation
General. Various aspects of our oil and gas operations are subject to extensive and continually changing regulation, as legislation affecting the oil and gas industry is under constant review for amendment or expansion. Numerous departments and agencies, both federal and state, are authorized by statute to issue, and have issued, rules and regulations binding upon the oil and gas industry and our individual members.
Regulation of Sales and Transportation of Natural Gas. The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, or the FERC, regulates the transportation and sale for resale of natural gas in interstate commerce pursuant to the Natural Gas Act of 1938 and the Natural Gas Policy Act of 1978. In the past, the federal government has regulated the prices at which natural gas can be sold. While sales by producers of natural gas can currently be made at uncontrolled market prices, Congress could reenact price controls in the future. Our sales of natural gas are affected by the availability, terms and cost of transportation. The price and terms for access to pipeline transportation are subject to extensive regulation and proposed regulation designed to increase competition within the natural gas industry, to remove various barriers and practices that historically limited non-pipeline natural gas sellers, including producers, from effectively competing with interstate pipelines for sales to local distribution companies and large industrial and commercial customers and to establish the rates interstate pipelines may charge for their services. Similarly, the Oklahoma Corporation Commission and the Texas Railroad Commission have been reviewing changes to their regulations governing transportation and gathering services provided by intrastate pipelines and gatherers. While the changes being considered by these federal and state regulators would affect us only indirectly, they are intended to further enhance competition in natural gas markets. We cannot predict what further action the FERC or state regulators will take on these matters; however, we do not believe that any actions taken will have an effect materially different than the effect on other natural gas producers with which we compete.
Additional proposals and proceedings that might affect the natural gas industry are pending before Congress, the FERC, state commissions and the courts. The natural gas industry historically has been very heavily regulated; therefore, there is no assurance that the less stringent regulatory approach recently pursued by the FERC and Congress will continue.
Oil Price Controls and Transportation Rates. Our sales of crude oil, condensate and natural gas liquids are not currently regulated and are made at market prices. The price we receive from the sale of these products may be affected by the cost of transporting the products to market.
Environmental. Our oil and natural gas operations are subject to pervasive federal, state, and local laws and regulations concerning the protection and preservation of the environment (e.g., ambient air, and surface and subsurface soils and waters), human health, worker safety, natural resources and wildlife. These laws and regulations affect virtually every aspect of our oil and natural gas operations, including our exploration for, and production, storage, treatment, and transportation of, hydrocarbons and the disposal of wastes generated in connection with those activities. These laws and regulations increase our costs of planning, designing, drilling, installing, operating, and abandoning oil and natural gas wells and appurtenant properties, such as gathering systems, pipelines, and storage, treatment and salt water disposal facilities.
We have expended and will continue to expend significant financial and managerial resources to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations, including permitting requirements. Our failure to comply with these laws and regulations can subject us to substantial civil and criminal penalties, claims for injury to persons and damage to properties and natural resources, and clean-up and other remedial obligations. Although we believe that the operation of our properties generally complies with applicable environmental laws and regulations, the risks of incurring substantial costs and liabilities are inherent in the operation of oil and natural gas wells and appurtenant properties. We could also be subject to liabilities related to the past operations conducted by others at properties now owned by us, without regard to any wrongful or negligent conduct by us.
We cannot predict what effect future environmental legislation and regulation will have upon our oil and natural gas operations. The possible legislative reclassification of certain wastes generated in connection with oil and natural gas operations as “hazardous wastes” would have a significant impact on our operating costs, as well as the oil and natural gas industry in general. The cost of compliance with more stringent environmental laws and regulations, or the more vigorous administration and enforcement of those laws and regulations, could result in material expenditures by us to remove, acquire, modify, and install equipment, store and dispose of wastes, remediate facilities, employ additional personnel, and implement systems to ensure compliance with those laws and regulations. These accumulative expenditures could have a material adverse effect upon our profitability and future capital expenditures.
Regulation of Oil and Gas Exploration and Production. Our exploration and production operations are subject to various types of regulation at the federal, state and local levels. Such regulations include requiring permits and drilling bonds for the drilling of wells, regulating the location of wells, the method of drilling and casing wells, and the surface use and restoration of properties upon which wells are drilled. Many states also have statutes or regulations addressing conservation matters, including provisions for the unitization or pooling of oil and natural gas properties, the establishment of maximum rates of production from oil and natural gas wells and the regulation of spacing, plugging and abandonment of such wells. Some state statutes limit the rate at which oil and natural gas can be produced from our properties.
Employees
At December 31, 2007, we had 181 employees, 28 of whom were administrative, accounting or financial personnel and 153 of whom were technical and operations personnel. Our exploration staff includes three exploration geologists and six exploration landmen. We retained 67 employees of Ascent Energy following the Ascent acquisition. Our future success will depend partially on our ability to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel. We are not a party to any collective bargaining agreement and we have not experienced any strikes or work stoppages. We consider our relations with our employees to be satisfactory.
Available Information
Copies of our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, are available free of charge through our website (www.ramenergy.com) as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file the material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. Our SEC filings are also available from the SEC’s website at: http://www.sec.gov. The references to our website address do not constitute incorporation by reference of the information contained on the website and should not be considered part of this report.
Item 3.