Item 2. Properties
The table below summarizes our operations by state. Our principal properties in Texas primarily consist of the Electra/Burkburnett fields in Wichita and Wilbarger Counties and the La Copita field in Starr County. Our principal Oklahoma properties are the Northeast Fitts and Allen fields in Pontotoc and Seminole Counties. In Louisiana, our most significant property is the Lake Enfermer field in Lafourche Parish. During 2011, we drilled 49 gross wells (44.7 net) that were capable of production and experienced a success rate of 91%.
The following table summarizes our estimated proved oil and gas reserves by area as of December 31, 2011, and our average daily production by area for calendar year 2011:
Texas Fields
The average daily production from our Texas fields was 2,482 Boe per day (60% of our total daily production) in 2011, a decrease of 36% from the previous year due to the production related to the assets sold in December 2010 and natural production declines not offset by increased drilling. We drilled a total of 41 gross (38.8 net) wells in our Texas fields, 40 gross (38.6 net) wells of which were completed as wells capable of production and one gross (0.2 net) well was abandoned. An additional four gross (4.0 net) wells were awaiting completion or pipeline connection at year end or in the process of drilling. As of December 31, 2011, the proved reserves in our Texas fields were 12.3 MMBoe and account for 58% of our total proved reserves. Our most significant Texas fields are as follows:
Electra/Burkburnett Fields. We drilled a total of 38 gross (38.0 net) wells, which were completed as wells capable of production during 2011 in our Electra/Burkburnett fields in Wichita and Wilbarger Counties, Texas and have drilled more than 389 wells in these fields since November 1, 2004. We own our own drilling rig and pulling units deployed exclusively for operations in these fields, and employ approximately 92 field personnel. We continue to focus on reducing operating costs in these fields and are also working to improve production performance through recompletions, workovers and improved water injection performance. As of December 31, 2011, the estimated proved reserves in these fields were 6.2 MMBoe (30% of our total proved reserves).
South Texas. During 2011, our net daily production from our South Texas properties averaged 865 Boe per day and make up 24% (5.1 MMBoe) of our total proved reserves. We did not drill any new wells in our La Copita field in Starr County, Texas during 2011. We are the operator of all of the wells in our La Copita field.
Oklahoma Fields
We produced an average of 1,047 Boe per day (25% of our total daily production) from our Oklahoma fields in 2011, a decrease of 19% over the previous year primarily due to production related to the assets sold in December 2010 and natural production declines. We drilled a total of eleven gross (10.2 net) wells in our Oklahoma fields, of which seven gross (6.2 net) wells were completed as wells capable of production and four gross (4.0 net) wells were either abandoned or temporarily abandoned. An additional two gross (1.9 net) wells were drilled to their objective depth and awaiting completion or pipeline connection at year end. As of December 31, 2011, the proved reserves in our Oklahoma fields were 5.8 MMBoe and account for 28% of our total proved reserves. Our most significant Oklahoma fields are as follows:
Northeast Fitts and Allen Fields. During 2011, we initiated the drilling of one gross (0.2 net) development well and two gross (1.9 net) exploratory wells in our Northeast Fitts unit in Pontotoc County, Oklahoma. The Northeast Fitts field produces from shallow McAlester and Hunton formations at depths less than 4,000 feet. We are the operator of the units and, as such, control the pace of operations. The majority of our value in the Northeast Fitts field is primarily a mature waterflood. Our Allen Field has undeveloped opportunities in shallow multi-pay reservoirs. The combined proved reserves from these two areas are 5.2 MMBoe (25% of our total proved reserves).
Osage Concession. During 2011, we drilled ten gross (10.0 net) exploratory wells in our Osage County concession in northeastern Oklahoma. The Osage concession is in the Mississippian Lime formation and is predominantly crude oil and NGLs production. Initially developed using vertical wells, we plan to use horizontal drilling technology to reinvigorate previously exhausted areas.
Louisiana Fields
The average daily production from our Louisiana fields was 419 Boe per day (10% of our total daily production) in 2011, a decrease of 21% over the previous year due to a shut-in of one well as a result of a major workover and natural production declines. We did not drill any new wells in our Louisiana fields during 2011. As of December 31, 2011, the proved reserves in our Louisiana fields were 2.4 MMBoe and account for 11% of our total proved reserves.
The following table summarizes our 2011 drilling activity:
(1) Does not include five gross (4.0 net) wells that were in the process of being completed at December 31, 2011, and does not include seven gross (5.8 net) wells that were drilled in 2010 and waiting on pipeline connection.
(2) Does not include two gross (1.9 net) wells that was in the process of being completed at December 31, 2011.
Development, Exploitation and Exploration Programs
Development and Exploitation Program. Our future production and performance depends in part on the successful development of our existing reserves of oil and natural gas. We have identified multiple development projects on our existing properties, and these projects involve both the drilling of development wells and extension wells. We are the operator of leases covering approximately 2,600 of the gross wells capable of production in which we own interests, and as such we are able to control expenses, capital allocation and the timing of development activities on these properties. We also own interests in, and operate, approximately 600 gross injection wells. During the year ended December 31, 2011, we drilled or participated in the drilling of 43 gross (38.8 net) development wells capable of production. Capital expenditures in connection with these activities during this period aggregated approximately $17.4 million.
Another determinant of future performance is the exploitation of existing wells that can be recompleted or otherwise reworked to extract additional hydrocarbons. We have identified approximately 22 operated projects involving recompletions in existing wells that we operate, all of which involve reserves included in our proved reserves at December 31, 2011.
Exploration Program. Historically, an important component of our strategy to expand our reserves and production has been an active exploration program focused on adding long-lived oil and natural gas reserves from our core areas and other resource plays. We have obtained a concession in Osage County, Oklahoma on 45,280 gross acres with 100% working interest. We have 3-D seismic data covering approximately 31,000 acres.
We have an experienced technical staff, including geologists, landmen, engineers and other technical personnel devoted to prospect generation and identification of potential drilling locations. We seek to reduce exploration risk by exploring at moderate depths that are deep enough to discover sizeable oil and natural gas accumulations (generally less than 13,000 feet). Our established presence in our core areas has provided our staff with substantial expertise. For exploration prospects we generate, we typically will own a greater interest in these projects than our drilling partners, if any, and will operate the wells. As a result, we will be able to influence the areas of exploration and the acquisition of leases, as well as the timing and drilling of each well. During the year ended December 31, 2011, we participated in the drilling of ten gross (10.0 net) exploratory wells.
Our capital expenditure budget for 2012 is approximately $1.1 billion (65% leasehold acquisitions, 25% drilling and completions, 7% infrastructure and 3% seismic) and is subject to revision based on various factors. The amount and timing of our actual capital expenditures for calendar year 2012 may vary significantly depending on a variety of factors, including prevailing market prices for oil and natural gas, the availability of acreage at acceptable prices in our targeted areas, results of our drilling operations, projects proposed by third party operators on jointly owned acreage, rig and service company availability, and other factors that we cannot predict and that may be beyond our control.
We expect to fund our 2012 capital budget with funds received from our recent recapitalization, proceeds received from our recent convertible preferred stock offering, cash flows from operations, proceeds from potential asset dispositions and borrowings under our credit agreement. We strive to maintain financial flexibility and may access capital markets as necessary to maintain substantial borrowing capacity under our credit agreement and selectively expand our acreage position and pursue growth opportunities. In the event our cash flows, proceeds from potential asset dispositions and other capital resources are not sufficient to fund our capital spending budget, we may access the capital markets. In the event we are unable to raise additional capital on acceptable terms, we may reduce our capital spending.
Oil and Natural Gas Reserves
Our proved reserve estimates for crude oil and natural gas were prepared by Forrest A. Garb & Associates, an independent petroleum engineering firm, in accordance with the generally accepted petroleum engineering and evaluation principles and most recent definitions and guidelines established by the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). A copy of Forrest A. Garb & Associates’ summary reserve report is attached as an exhibit to this report. All reserve definitions comply with the definitions of Rules 4-10 (a) (1)-(32) of SEC Regulation S-X.
To determine our estimated proved reserves, and as required by the SEC, we used the 12-month unweighted arithmetic average of the first-day-of-the-month price for the months of January through December 2011 calculated to be $4.12 per Mcf of natural gas and $96.19 per Bbl of oil. These prices were held constant for the life of the properties and adjusted for the appropriate market differentials.
As of December 31, 2011, our proved crude oil and natural gas reserves are presented below by reserve category. All of our proved reserves are located within the United States.
Our properties have a 13.7 year reserve-to-production ratio.
Proved Undeveloped Reserves
At December 31, 2011, our total proved undeveloped reserves were 7.7 MMBoe, comprised of 4.5 MMBbl of crude oil and natural gas liquids and 19.1 Bcf of natural gas. As a result of our 2011 development activities, we converted approximately 78.1 MBoe, or 1%, of our 2010 proved undeveloped reserves to proved developed. The capital costs to develop these reserves were approximately $1.5 million. Also during 2011, we drilled wells at 43 locations that did not include proved reserves as of December 31, 2010. During 2011, we added three new proved undeveloped locations, which resulted in the addition of approximately 33.1 MBoe of proved reserves. At December 31, 2011, our projected costs to develop our remaining proved undeveloped reserves were $32.5 million in 2012, $27.7 million in 2013, $13.0 million in 2014, $5.3 million in 2015 and $8.9 million in 2016.
Unproved Reserves
The new SEC guidelines allow for the disclosure of probable and possible reserves, which are unproved reserves. Disclosure of unproved reserves is optional and we have elected not to disclose any unproved reserves in this report.
Technologies Used to Establish Additions to Reserve Estimates
The revised rules permit the use of reliable technologies that have been field tested as evidence proven to establish with “reasonable certainty” quantities of proved reserves. They also permit assigning reserves to locations more than one offset away from standard development spacing if reasonable certainty can be established, and the estimates are economically producible. Our 2011 reserve estimates have not relied on the new rule as a means of assigning proved reserves. We are, however, actively using seismic interpretation to high grade our potential drilling locations. In future filings, we may use reliable technologies to assign reserves if the application has been demonstrated to provide reasonably certain results with consistency and repeatability in the formation being evaluated, or in an analogous formation.
Internal Controls over Reserves Estimate
Our policies regarding internal controls over the recording of reserves are structured to objectively and accurately estimate our oil and gas reserve quantities and values in compliance with SEC regulations. Responsibility for compliance in reserve bookings is delegated to our reservoir engineering group, which is led by our Chief Operating Officer.
Technical reviews are performed throughout the year by our engineering and geologic staff who evaluate pertinent geological and engineering data. This data in conjunction with economic data and ownership information is used in making a determination of proved reserve quantities. The reserve process is overseen by our Director of Business Development. Our internal reservoir engineering staff has an average experience of more than 20 years in the area of reserve estimating and reservoir evaluations. We have internal auditing guidelines and controls in place to monitor the reservoir data and reporting parameters used in preparing the year-end reserves. Technologies and economic data used include updated production data, well performance, formation logs, geological maps, reservoir pressure tests and wellbore mechanical integrity information. Final approval of the reserves is required by our Chief Operating Officer.
Our reserve estimates are certified by the independent petroleum engineering firm of Forrest A. Garb & Associates using their own engineering assumptions and the economic data which we provide. Forrest A. Garb & Associates is an independent petroleum engineering consulting firm that provides petroleum consulting services throughout the world. Forrest A. Garb is chairman of the board of his firm, and is a registered professional engineer with more than 50 years of practical petroleum industry experience. The Forrest A. Garb & Associates report is included as Exhibit 99.1.
In addition to third party reserve report preparation, our reserves are reviewed by senior management and the Reserves Committee of our Board of Directors. Senior management, which includes our President and Chief Executive Officer, and Chief Financial Officer, is responsible for reviewing and verifying that the estimate of proved reserves is reasonable, complete, and accurate. The Reserves Committee reviews the final reserves estimate in conjunction with Forrest A. Garb & Associates’ certified reserve report letter. They may also meet with the key representative from Forrest A. Garb & Associates to discuss their process and findings.
Estimated quantities of proved reserves and future net revenues are affected by oil and natural gas prices, which have fluctuated widely in recent years. There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating oil and natural gas reserves and their values, including many factors beyond the control of the producer. The reserve data set forth in this report represent only estimates. Reservoir engineering is a subjective process of estimating underground accumulations of oil and natural gas that cannot be measured in an exact manner. The accuracy of any reserve estimate is a function of the quality of available data and of engineering and geological interpretation and judgment. As a result, estimates of different engineers, including those used by us, may vary. In addition, estimates of reserves are subject to revisions based upon actual production, results of future development and exploration activities, prevailing oil and natural gas prices, operating costs and other factors, which revisions may be material. Proved reserves include proved developed and proved undeveloped reserves.
Reserve Reconciliation
Our total proved reserve reconciliation starting at year-end 2010 and ending year-end 2011 is as follows:
(a) We added 0.3 MMBoe in proved reserve extensions, discoveries and additions in 2011 primarily as a result of our development drilling in our Electra/Burkburnett field in North Texas and in our La Copita field in South Texas. A significant portion of these reserves is a result of drilling locations in our Electra/Burkburnett, Northeast Fitts and Allen fields that were not booked as proved locations at year-end 2010.
(b) Total revisions of previous reserve estimates decreased proved reserves by 2.2 MMBoe or approximately 9% of our reserves at the beginning of the year. The revisions included a positive increase of 0.9 MMBoe or 4% of the beginning of the year reserves caused by higher oil and gas prices. This positive revision was offset by the downward revision of 1.4 MMBoe caused by the transfer of proved reserves to unproved categories as a result of updated geological and engineering evaluations and changes to the company development plans during 2011, and 1.7 MMBoe of downward revisions were mostly due to changes in well performance.
Our proved developed reserves and total proved reserves by year are as follows:
The following is a summary of the standardized measure of discounted net cash flows using methodology provided for in Topic 932 of the Accounting Standards Codification TM (the “Codification”) implemented by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”), related to our estimated proved oil and natural gas reserves. For these calculations, estimated future cash flows from estimated future production of proved reserves for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, were computed using benchmark prices based on the unweighted arithmetic average of the first-day-of-the-month prices for oil and natural gas during each month of 2011, 2010 and 2009, as required by SEC Release No. 33-8995, “Modernization of Oil and Gas Reporting.” Future development and production costs attributable to the proved reserves were estimated assuming that existing conditions would continue over the economic lives of the individual leases and costs were not escalated for the future. Estimated future income tax expenses were calculated by applying future statutory tax rates (based on the current tax law adjusted for permanent differences and tax credits) to the estimated future pretax net cash flows related to proved oil and natural gas reserves, less the tax basis of the properties involved. Future income tax expense for 2011 increased from prior year amounts primarily due to an increase in net future cash flows and the re-measurement of net operating loss carry forwards that are limited under the Internal Revenue Code Section 382, resulting in fewer losses expected to be available for future years. Future income tax expenses increased in 2010 because net operating loss carryforward was used to offset capital gains realized in the property divestitures and also due to a decrease in net operating loss carryforwards related to Internal Revenue Code Section 382 limitation, leaving less net operating loss carryforward available for future years. Additionally, future development costs are less than the previous year. For further information regarding the standardized measure of discounted net cash flows related to our estimated proved oil and natural gas reserves for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, please review Note O in the notes to our year-end 2011 financial statements appearing elsewhere in this report. The standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows relating to our estimated proved oil and natural gas reserves is summarized as follows:
In general, the volume of production from oil and natural gas properties declines as reserves are depleted. Except to the extent we acquire properties containing proved reserves or conduct successful exploration and development activities, our proved reserves will decline as reserves are produced. Our future oil and natural gas production is, therefore, highly dependent upon our level of success in finding or acquiring additional reserves.
Net Production, Unit Prices and Costs
The following table presents certain information with respect to our oil and natural gas production and prices and costs attributable to all oil and natural gas properties owned by us for the periods shown. Average realized prices reflect the actual realized prices received by us, before and after giving effect to the results of our derivative contracts. Our derivative contracts are financial, and our production of oil, natural gas and NGLs, and the average realized prices we receive from our production, are not affected by our derivative contracts.
Fields containing 15% or more of total proved reserves at December 31, 2011:
(1) Excludes impact of cash effect of settlement of derivative contracts.
Acquisition, Development and Exploration Capital Expenditures
The following table presents information regarding our net costs incurred in our acquisitions of proved and unproved properties, and our development and exploration activities (in thousands):
Finding Costs
The following table sets forth the estimated proved reserves we acquired or discovered, including revisions of previous estimates, during each stated period. In calculating finding costs, we include acquisition costs related to proved property acquisitions, development costs, and exploration costs with respect to exploratory wells drilled and completed. Most of our drilling in 2011 was in our mature fields on proved undeveloped properties, which does not result in significant reserve additions. Because in 2011 and 2010 we had no significant acquisitions of producing properties, discoveries were limited and no significant reserves were added, our finding cost in 2011 and 2010 were substantially greater per Boe as compared to 2009. Our three-year average finding cost was $18.27 per Boe.
Producing Wells
The following table sets forth the number of productive wells in which we owned an interest as of December 31, 2011. Productive wells consist of producing wells and wells capable of production, including wells awaiting pipeline connections or connection to production facilities. Wells that we complete in more than one producing horizon are counted as one well.
Acreage
The following table sets forth our developed and undeveloped gross and net leasehold acreage as of December 31, 2011:
Our undeveloped acreage includes leased acres on which wells have not been drilled or completed to a point that would permit the production of commercial quantities of oil and natural gas, regardless of whether or not such acreage is held by production or contains proved reserves. A gross acre is an acre in which we own an interest. A net acre is deemed to exist when the sum of fractional ownership interests in gross acres equals one. The number of net acres is the sum of the fractional interests owned in gross acres.
Drilling Activities
During the periods indicated, we drilled or participated in drilling the following wells:
(1) Does not include seven gross (5.9 net) wells that were either in the process of being completed or drilling at December 31, 2011, and does not include seven gross (5.8 net) wells that were drilled in 2010 and waiting on pipeline connection.
(2) Does not include seven gross (5.8 net) wells that were in the process of being completed at December 31, 2010, and does not include three gross (0.2 net) wells that were drilled in 2009 and waiting on pipeline connection.
(3) Does not include three gross (0.16 net) wells that were in the process of being completed at December 31, 2009, and does not include two gross (one net) wells that were drilled in 2008 and waiting on pipeline connection.
Oil and Natural Gas Marketing and Derivative Activities
During the year ended December 31, 2011, Shell Trading (US) Company, or STUSCO, accounted for $70.4 million, or 68%, of our oil and natural gas revenue for that period. No other purchaser accounted for 10% or more of our oil and natural gas revenue during 2011. During the year ending December 31, 2011, we were subject to a crude purchase contract with STUSCO covering all of our production in our Electra Field in Wichita and Wilbarger Counties, Texas. The contract term covered the period of January 1, 2011 through December 31, 2011 and provided for a price equal to STUSCO West Texas Intermediate Posting plus $1.34 per barrel.
We were also subject to a crude purchase contract with STUSCO during 2011 covering all of our oil production in our Fitts and Allen fields in Oklahoma. For the period of January 1, 2011 through March 31, 2011, the contract price was Sunoco Oklahoma Sweet Posting plus $0.92 per barrel. Effective April 1, 2011, through May 31, 2011, the contract price was amended to Sunoco Oklahoma Sweet Posting plus Argus P-Plus Posting less $1.92 per barrel. Effective June 1, 2011 through November 30, 2011, the contract price was amended to Sunoco Oklahoma Sweet Posting plus $1.30 per barrel. We cancelled the crude purchase contract with STUSCO effective December 1, 2011, and entered into a new crude oil purchase agreement with Sunoco Partners Marketing & Terminals L.P., or Sunoco, for a term of December 1, 2011 through May 31, 2012. Sunoco’s purchase price is Sunoco West Texas Intermediate Posting plus $1.33.
There are other purchasers in the fields, and we believe such other purchasers would be available to purchase our production should our current purchaser discontinue operations. We have no reason to believe that any such cessation is likely to occur.
To reduce exposure to fluctuations in oil and natural gas prices and to achieve more predictable cash flow, we periodically utilize various derivative strategies to manage the price received for a portion of our future oil and natural gas production. Our derivative strategies customarily involve the purchase of put options to provide a price floor for our production; the sale of put options, which limit the effectiveness of purchased put options at the low end of the put/call collars to market prices in excess of the strike price of the put option sold; put/call collars that establish both a floor and a ceiling price to provide price certainty within a fixed range; call options that establish a secondary floor above a put/call collar ceiling; and swap arrangements that establish an index-related price above which we pay the derivative counterparty and below which we are paid by the derivative counterparty. These contracts allow us to predict with greater certainty the effective oil and natural gas prices to be received for our production and benefit us when market prices are less than the base floor prices or swap prices under our derivative contracts. However, we will not benefit from market prices that are higher than the ceiling or swap prices in these contracts for our hedged production.
See “Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk” for further information about our derivative positions at December 31, 2011.
Competition
The oil and natural gas industry is highly competitive. We compete for the acquisition of oil and natural gas properties, primarily on the basis of the price to be paid for such properties, with numerous entities including major oil companies, other independent oil and natural gas concerns and individual producers and operators. Many of these competitors are large, well-established companies and have financial and other resources substantially greater than ours. Our ability to acquire additional oil and natural gas properties and to discover reserves in the future will depend upon our ability to evaluate and select suitable properties and to consummate transactions in a highly competitive environment.
Title to Properties
We believe that we have satisfactory title to our properties in accordance with standards generally accepted in the oil and natural gas industry. As is customary in the oil and natural gas industry, we make only a cursory
review of title to farmout acreage and to undeveloped oil and natural gas leases upon execution of any contracts. Prior to the commencement of drilling operations, a title examination is conducted and curative work is performed with respect to significant defects. To the extent title opinions or other investigations reflect title defects, we, rather than the seller of the undeveloped property, typically are responsible to cure any such title defects at our expense. If we were unable to remedy or cure any title defect of a nature such that it would not be prudent for us to commence drilling operations on the property, we could suffer a loss of our entire investment in the property. We have obtained title opinions or reports on substantially all of our producing properties. Prior to completing an acquisition of producing oil and natural gas leases, we perform a title review on a material portion of the leases. Our oil and natural gas properties are subject to customary royalty interests, liens for current taxes and other burdens that we believe do not materially interfere with the use of or affect the value of such properties.
Facilities
Our executive offices are located at 1000 Louisiana Street, Suite 6700, Houston, Texas 77002, which we occupy under a lease with a remaining term ending in July 2018, at an annual rental of approximately $0.8 million, subject to escalation for taxes and utilities. Our Mid Continent Division executive and operating offices are located at Suite 650, Meridian Tower, 5100 E. Skelly Drive, Tulsa, Oklahoma 74135 which we occupy under a lease with a remaining term ending in January 2014, at an annual rental of approximately $0.5 million, subject to escalations for taxes and utilities. We also have an operating office at 4965 Preston Park Blvd., Suite 800, in Plano, Texas, subject to a lease extending through October 2013. Currently, rent under the lease is approximately $0.7 million annually. We have subleased a portion of our Plano office and will receive approximately $0.1 million annually. We also lease a small office in Houston, Texas. We believe that our facilities are adequate for our current needs.
Regulation
General. Various aspects of our oil and gas operations are subject to extensive and continually changing regulation, as legislation affecting the oil and gas industry is under constant review for amendment or expansion. Numerous departments and agencies, both federal and state, are authorized by statute to issue, and have issued, rules and regulations binding upon the oil and gas industry and our individual members.
Regulation of Sales and Transportation of Natural Gas. The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, or the FERC, regulates the transportation and sale for resale of natural gas in interstate commerce pursuant to the Natural Gas Act of 1938 and the Natural Gas Policy Act of 1978. In the past, the federal government has regulated the prices at which natural gas can be sold. While sales by producers of natural gas can currently be made at uncontrolled market prices, Congress could reenact price controls in the future. Our sales of natural gas are affected by the availability, terms and cost of transportation. The price and terms for access to pipeline transportation are subject to extensive regulation and proposed regulation designed to increase competition within the natural gas industry, to remove various barriers and practices that historically limited non-pipeline natural gas sellers, including producers, from effectively competing with interstate pipelines for sales to local distribution companies and large industrial and commercial customers and to establish the rates interstate pipelines may charge for their services. Similarly, the Oklahoma Corporation Commission and the Texas Railroad Commission have been reviewing changes to their regulations governing transportation and gathering services provided by intrastate pipelines and gatherers. While the changes being considered by these federal and state regulators would affect us only indirectly, they are intended to further enhance competition in natural gas markets. We cannot predict what further action the FERC or state regulators will take on these matters; however, we do not believe that any actions taken will have an effect materially different than the effect on other natural gas producers with which we compete.
Additional proposals and proceedings that might affect the natural gas industry are pending before Congress, the FERC, state commissions and the courts. The natural gas industry historically has been very
heavily regulated; therefore, there is no assurance that the less stringent regulatory approach recently pursued by the FERC and Congress will continue.
Oil Price Controls and Transportation Rates. Our sales of crude oil, condensate and natural gas liquids are not currently regulated and are made at market prices. The price we receive from the sale of these products may be affected by the cost of transporting the products to market.
Environmental. Our oil and natural gas operations are subject to pervasive federal, state, and local laws and regulations concerning the protection and preservation of the environment (e.g., ambient air, and surface and subsurface soils and waters), human health, worker safety, natural resources and wildlife. These laws and regulations affect virtually every aspect of our oil and natural gas operations, including our exploration for, and production, storage, treatment, and transportation of, hydrocarbons and the disposal of wastes generated in connection with those activities. These laws and regulations increase our costs of planning, designing, drilling, installing, operating, and abandoning oil and natural gas wells and appurtenant properties, such as gathering systems, pipelines, and storage, treatment and salt water disposal facilities.
In December 2009, the EPA promulgated a finding that serves as the foundation under the Clean Air Act to issue other rules that would result in federal greenhouse gas (“GHG”) regulations and emissions limits under the Clean Air Act, even without Congressional action. As part of this array of new regulations, in September 2009 and December 2010, the EPA also promulgated a GHG monitoring and reporting rule that requires certain parties, including participants in the oil and gas industry, to monitor and report their GHG emissions, including methane and carbon dioxide, to the EPA. These regulations may apply to our operations. The EPA has promulgated two other rules that would regulate GHGs, one of which would regulate GHGs from stationary sources, and which will likely affect sources in the oil and gas exploration and production industry and pipeline industry. EPA has also proposed new air emission technology standards specifically applicable to the oil and natural gas sector which enlarge the scope of regulated equipment. These proposed rules, if promulgated, will add another layer of additional indirect GHG regulation.
The GHG reporting rule and the stationary source GHG permitting rules to regulate the emissions of GHGs constitute federal regulation of carbon dioxide emissions and other GHGs, and may affect the outcome of other climate change lawsuits pending in United States federal courts in a manner unfavorable to our industry. See “Risk factors - Risks relating to our business - Regulation related to greenhouse gas emissions could have an adverse effect on our operations and demand for oil and natural gas.”
We have expended and will continue to expend significant financial and managerial resources to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations, including permitting requirements. Our failure to comply with these laws and regulations can subject us to substantial civil and criminal penalties, claims for injury to persons and damage to properties and natural resources, and clean-up and other remedial obligations. Although we believe that the operation of our properties generally complies with applicable environmental laws and regulations, the risks of incurring substantial costs and liabilities are inherent in the operation of oil and natural gas wells and appurtenant properties. We could also be subject to liabilities related to the past operations conducted by others at properties now owned by us, without regard to any wrongful or negligent conduct by us.
We cannot predict what effect future environmental legislation and regulation will have upon our oil and natural gas operations. The possible legislative reclassification of certain wastes generated in connection with oil and natural gas operations as “hazardous wastes” would have a significant impact on our operating costs, as well as the oil and natural gas industry in general. The cost of compliance with more stringent environmental laws and regulations, or the more vigorous administration and enforcement of those laws and regulations, could result in material expenditures by us to remove, acquire, modify, and install equipment, store and dispose of wastes, remediate facilities, employ additional personnel, and implement systems to ensure compliance with those laws and regulations. These accumulative expenditures could have a material adverse effect upon our profitability and future capital expenditures.
Regulation of Oil and Gas Exploration and Production. Our exploration and production operations are subject to various types of regulation at the federal, state and local levels. Such regulations include requiring permits and drilling bonds for the drilling of wells, regulating the location of wells, the method of drilling and casing wells, and the surface use and restoration of properties upon which wells are drilled. Many states also have statutes or regulations addressing conservation matters, including provisions for the unitization or pooling of oil and natural gas properties, the establishment of maximum rates of production from oil and natural gas wells and the regulation of spacing, plugging and abandonment of such wells. Some state statutes limit the rate at which oil and natural gas can be produced from our properties.
Employees
At December 31, 2011, we had 188 employees. Our future success will depend partially on our ability to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel. We are not a party to any collective bargaining agreement and we have not experienced any strikes or work stoppages. We consider our relations with our employees to be satisfactory.
Available Information
Copies of our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, are available free of charge through our website (www.halconresources.com) as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file the material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. Our SEC filings are also available from the SEC’s website at: http://www.sec.gov. The references to our website address do not constitute incorporation by reference of the information contained on the website and should not be considered part of this report.
Item 3.