Item 2. Properties
Leasehold Properties
As of December 31, 2012, we controlled approximately 200,000 net acres in the following five primary prospect areas:
·46,000 net acres (approximately 51,000 net acres pro forma for acquisitions closed and pending in 2013) in the Williston Basin targeting the Bakken and Three Forks shale oil formations in North Dakota and Montana;
·45,000 net acres in the Sand Wash Basin targeting the Niobrara shale oil formations in northwest Colorado (prior to the pending sale of 31,000 net acres in southwest Wyoming, which is expected to close in the first quarter of 2013);
·33,500 net acres in a joint venture targeting the Heath shale oil formation in Musselshell, Petroleum, Garfield and Fergus Counties of Montana;
·1,700 net acres in the Denver-Julesburg Basin targeting the Niobrara shale oil formation in Colorado and Wyoming; and
·72,800 net acres in a joint venture in and around the Tiger Ridge natural gas field in Blaine, Hill and Chouteau Counties of Montana.
Williston Basin - Bakken and Three Forks
The Williston Basin is one of the largest oil resource plays in North America and has been the focus of extensive industry activity over the last several years. As of December 31, 2012 there were approximately 200 rigs drilling in the Williston Basin in North Dakota and Montana. Since the application of modern horizontal drilling and completion techniques began in 2007, thousands of Bakken and Three Forks wells have been drilled throughout the basin. We believe that this industry activity, including drilling activity in close proximity to our leasehold, has substantially mitigated the geologic risks of our anticipated drilling locations. The Williston Basin is geologically and aerially well-defined, and almost all of our net acres are positioned within McKenzie, Dunn, Williams and Mountrail Counties, North Dakota, and Richland County, Montana, which are all generally recognized as being prospective for both the Bakken and Three Forks formations.
On a pro forma basis for closed and pending acquisitions in 2013, our Williston Basin acreage position consists of approximately 19,500 net operated acres in McKenzie, Dunn, and Williams Counties, North Dakota and Richland County, Montana where we have either secured operatorship through approved drilling permits or we believe we have sufficient working interests to claim operatorship in individual drilling spacing units pending approval of drilling permit applications. Our remaining acreage position on a pro forma basis consists of approximately 31,500 net acres in Williams, McKenzie, Dunn and Mountrail Counties in North Dakota, and Richland County, Montana, where we hold relatively low working interests. We expect to continue to maintain our non-operated working interests in leaseholds that contain producing wells in which we are a participant. In non-operated leaseholds that are not yet producing, we intend to utilize such leasehold to consolidate our operated working interests in current or future selected core focus areas, sell our interests to help fund our operated program, or maintain our interests to participate in future well development.
We are currently in the process of optimizing our participation in our non-operated acreage. While we cannot control the timing of capital expenditures for our non-operated properties, we may choose to selectively participate in proposed wells, based on our internal capital return criteria and our internal geologic knowledge. We consider the experience gained from our non-operated interests to be valuable due to the high quality of the operators. These interests have allowed and we expect that they will continue to allow us to leverage valuable technical data across the basin in order to participate in what we believe to be the most economic wells. The amount of detailed, well-specific data we have acquired as a result of our participation in approximately 200 gross non-operated wells to date, together with publicly available information, has allowed us to compile a valuable database of well information that we use to select our operated development areas and formulate optimal well designs.
Using industry-accepted well down-spacing assumptions, we believe there could be approximately 279 net potential drilling locations on our acreage prospective for oil in the Bakken and Three Forks formations. Consistent with such assumptions, we believe that each 1,280-acre unit can support approximately four Bakken and three Three Forks well locations. We plan to embark on an aggressive drilling program to convert our substantial undeveloped operated leasehold position to production, cash flow and reserves. For the 12-month period ending December 31, 2013, we plan to spend approximately $86 million on well development in the Williston Basin. Specifically, we plan to spend approximately $78.5 million ($82.5 million less $4.0 million spent during the three months ended December 31, 2012) to drill 7.5 net operated wells at an average estimated cost of $11.0 million per well and approximately $7.4 million to participate in 0.8 net non-operated wells at an average estimated cost of $9.2 million per well. We expect to fund our current 2013 capital expenditure budget using cash-on-hand, cash flow from operations, proceeds from our preferred equity transaction, proceeds from assets sales, and borrowings under our revolving credit facility.
The following table presents summary data for our Williston Basin project area and capital expenditure budget for the year ending December 31, 2013:
Sand Wash Basin - Niobrara
As of December 31, 2012, we owned an interest in approximately 45,000 net acres in the Sand Wash Basin prospective for oil in the Niobrara formation in northwestern Colorado and southern Wyoming, of which we are in the process of selling 31,000 net acres in the Sand Wash Basin in southwest Wyoming, which we expect to close in March 2013. Following the completion of the pending sale, we will hold approximately 14,000 net acres in the Focus Ranch Federal Unit. In addition to this acreage, we hold a 45% interest in the Slater Dome Gas Gathering pipeline, which extends 18.5 miles from the edge of the Focus Ranch Federal Unit to a gas sales point in Baggs, Wyoming. We intend to focus our appraisal activities in 2013 on the Focus Ranch Federal Unit area, which has historically demonstrated significant oil and natural gas flows from well tests and commercial oil production.
Big Snowy Joint Venture - Heath Shale Oil
As of December 31, 2012, we owned an interest in approximately 33,500 net acres located in central Montana as part of a joint venture targeting the Heath shale oil. During 2012, the number of drilling permits issued and amount of drilling in the area have increased compared with 2011. We believe the Heath shale has similar characteristics to the Bakken and Three Forks formations. Our five-year primary term leases have three-year extension options that will allow us to hold our leases with minimal incremental capital into 2017.
DJ Basin - Niobrara
As of December 31, 2012, we owned an interest in approximately 1,700 net acres in Weld County, Colorado and Laramie County, Wyoming, prospective for the Niobrara formation with 1,400 net acres currently held by production as we continue to monitor the performance and characteristics of the producing wells. We currently have no plans for drilling any additional development wells in the DJ Basin.
Major Joint Venture - Tiger Ridge Natural Gas
As of December 31, 2012, we owned an interest in approximately 72,800 net acres in and around the Tiger Ridge natural gas field in Montana. We participated in drilling two wells with Devon Energy Corporation, both of which were shut-in in 2010. We conducted a 3-D seismic program during 2010 and drilled and completed six exploratory wells in the fourth quarter of 2011 with our joint venture partners, Hancock Enterprises and MCR, LLC, as operators. We have an average working interest of 70% in these initial wells. We and our joint venture partners are assessing whether further development is economic at current natural gas prices.
Developed and Undeveloped Acreage
As of December 31, 2012, our principal assets included approximately 200,000 net acres located in the northern Rocky Mountain region of the United States. Net acreage represents our percentage ownership of gross acreage. The following table summarizes our estimated gross and net developed and undeveloped acreage by resource play at December 31, 2012.
(1)The table includes approximately 5,840 gross (1,935 net) undeveloped acres in North Dakota and Montana targeting the Bakken and Three Forks formations currently in the process of being drilled or and completed as of December 31, 2012.
(2)The table includes approximately 69,000 gross (31,000 net) acres in the Sand Wash Basin in southwest Wyoming and northern Colorado that we expect to sell in March 2013. The remaining acreage consists of approximately 37,000 gross (14,000 net) total undeveloped acres located in the Focus Ranch Federal Unit.
The following table summarizes our estimated gross and net developed and undeveloped acreage by state at December 31, 2012.
(1)Includes approximately 5,100 gross (1,815 net) undeveloped acres targeting the Bakken and Three Forks formations that are currently in the process of being drilled or and completed as of December 31, 2012.
(2)Includes approximately 740 gross (120 net) undeveloped acres targeting the Bakken and Three Forks formations that are currently in the process of being drilled or and completed as of December 31, 2012.
(3)The table includes approximately 69,000 gross (31,000 net) acres in the Sand Wash Basin in southwest Wyoming and northern Colorado that we expect to sell in March 2013. The remaining acreage consists of approximately 37,000 gross (14,000 net) total undeveloped acres located in the Focus Ranch Federal Unit.
The following table summarizes our estimated gross and net developed and undeveloped acreage by county across the Bakken and Three Forks prospect at December 31, 2012.
(1)During 2012, leases expired in Dunn County, North Dakota covering approximately 12,817 gross (3,150 net) acres. The cost associated with the abandoned acreage totaling approximately $3.5 million is included in the full cost pool and subject to the depletion base.
(2)During 2012, leases expired in McKenzie County, North Dakota covering approximately 75 net acres. The cost associated with the abandoned acreage totaling $52,927 is included in the full cost pool and subject to the depletion base.
(3)The table includes approximately 5,840 gross (1,935 net)undeveloped acres in North Dakota and Montana targeting the Bakken and Three Forks formations currently in the process of being drilled or and completed as of December 31, 2012.
Undeveloped Acreage
The following table sets forth the number of gross and net undeveloped acres as of December 31, 2012 that will expire over the next three years and thereafter by project area unless production is established within the spacing units covering the acreage prior to the expiration dates:
(1)The table includes approximately 5,840 gross (1,935 net) acres in North Dakota and Montana targeting the Bakken and Three Forks formations that are currently in the process of being drilled or and completed as of December 31, 2012. We anticipate these wells will be sufficiently productive to allow us to hold such acres by production. Additionally, many of our leases include options to extend the lease from one to five additional years beyond the initial lease term. Of the 125,512 gross (34,486 net) undeveloped acres in North Dakota and Montana targeting the Bakken and Three Forks formations, approximately 18,435 gross (4,396 net) acres carry an option to extend the lease.
(2)The expiration table does not reflect the three-year optional extensions included on all of our acreage in the Montana Heath Joint Venture.
(3)During 2012, leases expired in Fergus and Choteau Counties, Montana, covering approximately 4,325 gross (1,908 net) acres. The $52,699 cost associated with the abandoned acreage is included in the full cost pool and subject to the depletion base.
(4)The table includes approximately 69,000 gross (31,000 net) acres in the Sand Wash Basin in southwest Wyoming that we expect to sell in March 2013. The remaining acreage consists of approximately 37,000 gross (14,000 net) total undeveloped acres located in the Focus Ranch Federal Unit.
Unproved Properties
We historically have acquired our properties by purchasing individual or small groups of leases directly from mineral owners or from landmen or lease brokers, which leases historically have not been subject to specified drilling projects, and by purchasing lease packages in identified project areas controlled by specific operators. We generally participate in drilling activities on a heads-up, or pro rata, basis based on our ownership percentage by electing whether to participate in each well on a well-by-well basis at the time wells are proposed for drilling.
We believe that the majority of our unproved properties will become subject to depletion within the next five years by proving up reserves relating to its acreage through exploration and development activities, by impairing the acreage that will expire before we can explore or develop it further, or by determining that further exploration and development activity will not occur. The timing by which all other properties will become subject to depletion will depend upon the timing of future drilling activities and delineation of our reserves.
Production History
The following table presents information about our produced oil and natural gas volumes for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010. As of December 31, 2012, we sold oil and natural gas from a total of 209 gross wells, 205 of which are located within the Williston Basin and four are located with the DJ Basin. Approximately 99%, 94% and 88% of net production volumes of Boe were produced from properties located in the Williston Basin (North Dakota and Montana) for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. All data presented below is derived from accrued revenue and production volumes for the relevant period indicated.
Productive Wells
The following table summarizes gross and net productive oil wells by state at December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010. A net well represents our fractional working ownership interest of a gross well. The following table does not include wells that were in the process of being drilled, awaiting completion, in the process of completion or awaiting flow back subsequent to fracture stimulation.
Wells Being Drilled or Awaiting Completion
The following table summarizes wells that were in the process of being drilled, awaiting completion, in the process of completion or awaiting flow back subsequent to fracture stimulation by state at December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010. A net well represents our fractional working ownership interest of a gross well.
Operated Wells
We began our operated drilling program in McKenzie County, North Dakota in November 2012. We have successfully drilled three operated wells and are in the process of drilling our fourth operated well with our continuous one-rig drilling program. The first three operated wells are scheduled to begin fracture stimulation by the end of first quarter of 2013.
Exploratory Wells
As of December 31, 2012, we were participating in 32 gross (4.77 net) wells in the process of being drilled or completed. Of these wells, seven gross (0.19 net) wells are classified as PDNP properties. The wells in process that are not classified as PDNP properties are deemed exploratory wells and included in the table below.
Of the 209 gross (11.67 net) productive wells that we have participated in as a non-operator, we have only participated in 2 gross (0.53 net) dry holes, which were located in Weld County, Colorado and Mountrail County, North Dakota.
Research and Development
We do not anticipate performing any significant product research and development under our current plan of operations.
Reserves
We recently completed our most current reservoir engineering calculations as of December 31, 2012. As of December 31, 2012, we had total proved reserves of approximately 5.35 million Boe, all of which were located in the Williston Basin. Based on the results of our December 31, 2012 reserve analysis, our proved reserves increased approximately 52% during 2012 primarily as a result of increased drilling activity involving our acreage and our acquisition of acreage subject to specific drilling projects or included in permitted or drilling spacing units. We incurred approximately $73 million of capital expenditures for drilling activities and $17 million for acreage acquisitions during the year ended December 31, 2012, which directly contributed to the increase in our proved developed reserves. No other expenditures materially contributed to the development of proved developed reserves in 2012. Our proved undeveloped reserves increased by approximately 43% during 2012 primarily as a result of drilling activity and our acquisitions of acreage. Based on our independent reservoir engineering firm’s calculations of proved undeveloped reserves as of December 31, 2011, approximately 345,000 Boe, or 14.5%, of proved undeveloped reserves were converted to proved developed reserves during 2012. The capital costs to develop these reserves were approximately $6.9 million. Also during 2012, we drilled wells at 86 locations that did not include proved reserves as of December 31, 2011. During 2012, we added 65 new proved undeveloped locations, which resulted in the addition of approximately 1.0 million Boe of proved undeveloped reserves. We expect that our proved undeveloped reserves will continue to be converted to proved developed producing reserves as additional wells are drilled. At December 31, 2012, our projected costs to develop our remaining proved undeveloped reserves were $49.1 million in 2013 and $44.19 million in 2014. We do not have any material amounts of proved undeveloped reserves that have remained undeveloped for five years or more from the time such reserves were initially categorized as proved undevloped. All locations comprising our remaining proved undeveloped reserves are forecast to be drilled within five years from initially being recorded in accordance with our adopted development plan.
SEC Pricing Proved Reserves (1)
(1)The SEC Pricing Proved Reserves table above values oil and natural gas reserve quantities and related discounted future net cash flows as of December 31, 2012 assuming average constant realized prices of $85.75 per Bbl of oil and $5.13 per Mcf of natural gas. The average natural gas price reflects the value of processed natural gas sales and natural gas liquids. Under SEC guidelines, these prices represent the average prices per Bbl of oil and per Mcf of natural gas at the beginning of each month in the 12-month period prior to the end of the reporting period, which averages are then adjusted to reflect applicable transportation and quality differentials. The values presented in the table above were calculated by Pressler Petroleum Consultants, Inc. and audited by Netherland, Sewell & Associates, Inc.
(2)Barrels of oil equivalent (Boe) are computed based on a conversion ratio of one Boe for each barrel of oil and one Boe for every 6,000 cubic feet (i.e., 6 Mcf) of natural gas.
(3)Pre-tax PV10% may be considered a non-GAAP financial measure as defined by the SEC and is derived from the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows, which is the most directly comparable GAAP measure. Pre-tax PV10% is computed on the same basis as the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows but without deducting future income taxes. We believe Pre-tax PV10% is a useful measure for investors for evaluating the relative monetary significance of our oil and natural gas properties. We further believe investors may utilize our Pre-tax PV10% as a basis for comparison of the relative size and value of our reserves to other companies because many factors that are unique to each individual company impact the amount of future income taxes to be paid. Our management uses this measure when assessing the potential return on investment related to our oil and natural gas properties and acquisitions. However, Pre-tax PV10% is not a substitute for the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows. Our Pre-tax PV10% and the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows do not purport to present the fair value of our oil and natural gas reserves.
The table above assumes prices and costs discounted using an annual discount rate of 10% without future escalation, without giving effect to non-property related expenses such as general and administrative expenses, debt service and depreciation, depletion and amortization, or federal income taxes.
The “Pre-tax PV10%” values of our proved reserves presented in the foregoing table may be considered a non-GAAP financial measure as defined by the SEC. The following table reconciles the pre-tax PV10% value of our SEC Pricing Proved Reserves to the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows.
SEC Pricing Proved Reserves
Uncertainties are inherent in estimating quantities of proved reserves, including many risk factors beyond our control. Reserve engineering is a subjective process of estimating subsurface accumulations of oil and natural gas that cannot be measured in an exact manner. As a result, estimates of proved reserves may vary depending upon the engineer valuing the reserves. Further, our actual realized price for our oil and natural gas is not likely to average the pricing parameters used to calculate our proved reserves. As such, the oil and natural gas quantities and the value of those commodities ultimately recovered from our properties will vary from reserve estimates.
Controls Over Reserve Report Preparation, Technical Qualifications and Technologies Used
Preparation of our reserve report is outlined in our Sarbanes-Oxley Act Section 404 internal control procedures. Our procedures require that our reserve report be prepared by an independent reservoir engineering firm and then audited by a third-party registered independent engineering firm at the end of every year. The preparation and audit of our reservoir engineering report is based on information we provide to such engineer. We accumulate historical production data for our wells, calculate historical lease operating expenses and differentials, update working interests and net revenue interests, obtain updated authorizations for expenditure (“AFEs”) from our operations department and obtain geological and geophysical information from operators. This data is forwarded to our third-party engineering firm for review and calculation. Our Chief Executive Officer and Vice President of Exploration and Business Development provide a final review of our reserve report and the assumptions relied upon in such report. Our Chief Executive Officer has over 30 years experience managing technical and business areas in upstream oil and natural gas, liquefied natural gas and geothermal. He is a member of the Society of Petroleum Engineers (SPE) and holds a degree in Oil and Gas Technology from the British Columbia Institute of Technology and a BSc in Petroleum Engineering from Tulsa University.
We have utilized Pressler Petroleum Consultants, Inc. (“Pressler”), an independent reservoir engineering firm, for the preparation of our December 31, 2012 reserve report. Pressler is a professional reservoir-evaluation consulting firm and has substantial experience calculating the reserves of various other companies with operations targeting the Bakken and Three Forks formations and several other resource plays of the Northern Rockies. As such, we believe Pressler has sufficient experience to appropriately determine our reserves. Pressler utilizes proprietary technology, systems and data to calculate our reserves commensurate with this experience.
The reserves estimates shown herein have been independently audited by Netherland, Sewell & Associates, Inc. (“NSAI”), a worldwide leader of petroleum property analysis for industry and financial organizations and government agencies. NSAI was founded in 1961 and performs consulting petroleum engineering services under Texas Board of Professional Engineers Registration No.. The lead technical person at NSAI primarily responsible for overseeing the audit of our reserves has 32 years of industry experience, and has been practicing consulting petroleum engineering at NSAI since 1989. He is a Registered Professional Engineer in the State of Texas, and has in excess of 20 years of practical experience in petroleum engineering studies and evaluation of reserves. NSAI meets or exceeds the education, training, and experience requirements set forth in the Standards Pertaining to the Estimating and Auditing of Oil and Gas Reserves Information promulgated by the Society of Petroleum Engineers. NSAI is proficient in applying industry standard practices to engineering and geosciences evaluations as well as applying SEC and other industry reserves definitions and guidelines.
The proved reserves tables above summarize our estimated proved reserves as of December 31, 2012, based upon reports prepared by Pressler and audited by NSAI. Our audit procedures require NSAI to prepare their own estimates of proved reserves for fields comprising at least 80% of the aggregate net present value of our year-end proved reserves, discounted at 10% per annum.
In accordance with applicable requirements of the SEC, estimates of our net proved reserves and future net revenues are made using average prices at the beginning of each month in the 12-month period prior to the date of such reserve estimates and are held constant throughout the life of the properties (except to the extent a contract specifically provides for escalation).
The reserves set forth in the NSAI audit letter for the properties are estimated by performance methods or analogy. In general, reserves attributable to producing wells and/or reservoirs are estimated by performance methods such as decline curve analysis which utilizes extrapolations of historical production data. Reserves attributable to non-producing and undeveloped reserves included in our report are estimated by analogy.
To estimate economically recoverable oil and natural gas reserves and related future net cash flows, we consider many factors and assumptions including, but not limited to, the use of reservoir parameters derived from geological, geophysical and engineering data which cannot be measured directly, economic criteria based on current costs and SEC pricing requirements, and forecasts of future of production rates. Under Rules 210.4-10(a)(22)(v) and (26) of Regulation S-X, proved reserves must be demonstrated to be economically producible based on existing economic conditions including the prices and costs at which those reserves can be economically produced from a reservoir, determined as of the effective date of the report. With respect to the property interests we own, production and well tests from examined wells, normal direct costs of operating the wells or leases, other costs such as transportation and/or processing fees, production taxes, recompletion and development costs and product prices are based on the SEC regulations, geological maps, well logs, core analyses, and pressure measurements.
The reserve data set forth in the NSAI audit letter represent only estimates, and should not be construed as being exact quantities. The estimates of reserves may or may not be actually recovered, and if recovered, the actual revenues and costs could be more or less than the estimated amounts. Moreover, estimates of reserves may increase or decrease as a result of future operations. Reservoir engineering is a subjective process of estimating underground accumulations of oil and natural gas that cannot be measured in an exact manner. There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating oil and natural gas reserves and their estimated values, including many factors beyond our control. The accuracy of any reserve estimate is a function of the quality of available data and of engineering and geologic interpretation and judgment. As a result, estimates of different engineers, including those used by us, may vary. In addition, estimates of reserves are subject to revision based upon actual production, results of future development and exploration activities, prevailing oil and natural gas prices, operating costs and other factors. The revisions may be material. Accordingly, reserve estimates are often different from the quantities of oil and natural gas that are ultimately recovered and are highly dependent upon the accuracy of the assumptions upon which they are based. Our estimated net proved reserves, included in our SEC filings, have not been filed with or included in reports to any other federal agency. See Item 1A. Risk Factors - Estimates of proved oil and natural gas reserves are uncertain and any material inaccuracies in these reserve estimates will materially affect the quantities and the value of our reserves.
Additional discussion of our proved reserves is set forth under the heading Supplemental Oil and Gas Reserve Information (Unaudited) following our audited financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010.
Delivery Commitments
We currently have oil delivery agreements in place through April 2013 for delivery of all oil produced from our operated wells. We have an off-take agreement through January 2016 and monthly thereafter with ONEOK, Inc. for delivery of all of our operated natural gas produced in our area of operation in McKenzie County, North Dakota.
Item 3.