Item 2.
Properties
PIPELINES
Our refined product pipelines transport light refined products from HFC’s Navajo refinery in New Mexico and Alon’s Big Spring refinery in Texas to their customers in the metropolitan and rural areas of Texas, New Mexico, Arizona, Utah, Oklahoma and northern Mexico and from HFC's Woods Cross refinery in Utah to Las Vegas, Nevada and Cedar City, Utah. The refined products transported in these pipelines include conventional gasolines, federal, state and local specification reformulated gasoline, low-octane gasoline for oxygenate blending, distillates that include high- and low-sulfur diesel and jet fuel and LPGs (such as propane, butane and isobutane).
Our intermediate product pipelines consist principally of three parallel pipelines that originate at the Navajo refinery Lovington facilities and terminate at its Artesia facilities. These pipelines transport intermediate feedstocks and crude oil for HFC’s refining operations in New Mexico.
Our crude pipelines consist of crude oil trunk, gathering and connection pipelines located in west Texas, New Mexico and Oklahoma that deliver crude oil to the Navajo refinery and crude oil and refined product pipelines that support HFC’s Woods Cross refinery.
Our pipelines are regularly inspected, are well maintained and we believe, are in good repair. Generally, other than as may be provided in certain pipelines and terminal agreements, substantially all of our pipelines are unrestricted as to the direction in which product flows and the types of refined products that we can transport on them. The FERC regulates the transportation tariffs for interstate shipments on our refined product pipelines and state regulatory agencies regulate the transportation tariffs for intrastate shipments on our pipelines.
The following table details the average aggregate daily number of barrels of petroleum products transported on our pipelines in each of the periods set forth below for HFC and for third parties.
(1)
We sold our 70% interest in Rio Grande on December 1, 2009, therefore the Rio Grande volumes have been excluded.
The following table sets forth certain operating data for each of our refined product, intermediate and crude pipelines. Throughput is the total average number of barrels per day transported on a pipeline but does not aggregate barrels moved between different points on the same pipeline. Revenues reflect tariff revenues generated by barrels shipped from an origin to a delivery point on a pipeline. Revenues also include payments made by Alon under capacity lease arrangements on our Orla to El Paso pipeline. Under these arrangements, we provide space on our pipeline for the shipment of up to 15,000 barrels of refined product per day. Alon pays us whether or not it actually ships the full volumes of refined products it is entitled to ship. To the extent Alon does not use its capacity; we are entitled to use it. We calculate the capacity of our pipelines based on the throughput capacity for barrels of gasoline equivalent that may be transported in the existing configuration; in some cases, this includes the use of drag reducing agents.
- 26 -
Table of Contentsril 19,
(1)
Includes 15,000 bpd of capacity on the Orla to El Paso segment of this pipeline that is leased to Alon under capacity lease agreements.
(2)
The White Lakes Junction to Moriarty segment of our Artesia to Moriarty pipeline and the Moriarty to Bloomfield pipeline is leased from Mid-America Pipeline Company, LLC (“Mid-America”) under a long-term lease agreement.
(3)
Capacity for this pipeline is reflected in the information for the Artesia to Moriarty pipeline.
(4)
Tulsa gasoline and diesel fuel connections to Magellan’s pipeline of less than one mile.
(5)
The capacities of the three gas pipelines are 10 million standard cubic feet per day (“MMSCFD”), 22 MMSCFD, and 10 MMSCFD and the two liquid pipelines are 45,000 BPD and 60,000 BPD.
HFC shipped an aggregate of 63% of the petroleum products transported on our refined product pipelines and 100% of the petroleum products transported on our intermediate pipelines and crude oil pipelines in 2013. These pipelines transported 84% of the light refined products produced by HFC’s Navajo refinery in 2013.
Artesia, New Mexico to El Paso, Texas
The Artesia to El Paso refined product pipeline is regulated by the FERC. It was constructed in 1959 and consists of 156 miles of 6-inch pipeline. This pipeline is used primarily for the shipment of refined products produced at the Navajo refinery to our El Paso terminal, where we deliver to common carrier pipelines for transportation to Arizona, northern New Mexico, northern Mexico and to the terminal’s tank farm for truck rack loading for local delivery by tanker truck. Refined products produced at the Navajo refinery destined for El Paso are transported on either this pipeline or our Artesia to Orla to El Paso pipeline.
Artesia, New Mexico to Orla, Texas to El Paso, Texas
The Artesia to Orla to El Paso refined product pipeline is a common-carrier pipeline regulated by the FERC and consists of three segments:
•
an 8-inch and a 12-inch, 82-mile segment from the Navajo refinery to Orla, Texas;
•
a 12-inch, 126-mile segment from Orla to outside El Paso, Texas; and
•
an 8-inch, 7-mile segment from outside El Paso to our El Paso terminal.
- 27 -
Table of Contentsril 19,
There are two shippers on this pipeline, HFC and Alon. As mentioned above, refined products destined to our El Paso terminal are delivered to common carrier pipelines for transportation to Arizona, northern New Mexico and northern Mexico and to the terminal’s truck rack for local delivery by tanker truck.
Artesia, New Mexico to Moriarty, New Mexico
The Artesia to Moriarty refined product pipeline consists of a 60-mile, 12-inch pipeline that was constructed in 1999 and extends from the Navajo refinery Artesia facility to White Lakes Junction, New Mexico, and 155 miles of 8-inch pipeline that was constructed in 1973 and extends from White Lakes Junction to our Moriarty terminal, where it also connects to our Moriarty to Bloomfield pipeline. We own the 12-inch pipeline from Artesia to White Lakes Junction. We lease the White Lakes Junction to Moriarty segment of this pipeline and the Moriarty to Bloomfield pipeline described below, from Mid-America Pipeline Company, LLC under a long-term lease agreement entered into in 1996, which expires in 2017 and has two ten-year extensions at our option. At our Moriarty terminal, volumes shipped on this pipeline can be transported to other markets in the area, including Albuquerque, Santa Fe and west Texas, via tanker truck. The 155-mile White Lakes Junction to Moriarty segment of this pipeline is operated by Mid-America (or its designee). HFC is the only shipper on this pipeline. Currently, we pay a monthly fee (which is subject to adjustments based on changes in the PPI) of $558,000 to Mid-America to lease the White Lakes Junction to Moriarty and Moriarty to Bloomfield pipelines.
Moriarty, New Mexico to Bloomfield, New Mexico
The Moriarty to Bloomfield refined product pipeline was constructed in 1973 and consists of 191 miles of 8-inch pipeline leased from Mid-America. This pipeline serves Western Refining's terminal in Bloomfield. Our Bloomfield terminal is currently idled. This pipeline is operated by Mid-America (or its designee). HFC is the only shipper on this pipeline.
Big Spring, Texas to Abilene, Texas
The Big Spring to Abilene refined product pipeline was constructed in 1957 and consists of 95 miles of 6-inch pipeline and 5 miles of 8-inch pipeline. This pipeline is used for the shipment of refined products produced at the Big Spring refinery to the Abilene terminal. Alon is the only shipper on this pipeline.
Big Spring, Texas to Wichita Falls, Texas
Segments of the Big Spring to Wichita Falls refined product pipeline were constructed in 1969 and 1989, and consist of 95 miles of 6-inch pipeline and 132 miles of 8-inch pipeline. This pipeline is used for the shipment of refined products produced at the Big Spring refinery to the Wichita Falls terminal. Alon is the only shipper on this pipeline.
Wichita Falls, Texas to Duncan, Oklahoma
The Wichita Falls to Duncan refined product pipeline is a common carrier and is regulated by the FERC. It was constructed in 1958 and consists of 47 miles of 6-inch pipeline. This pipeline is used for the shipment of refined products from the Wichita Falls terminal to Alon’s Duncan terminal, which we do not own. Alon is the only shipper on this pipeline.
Midland, Texas to Orla, Texas
Segments of the Midland to Orla refined product pipeline were constructed in 1928 and 1998, and consist of 50 miles of 10-inch pipeline and 86 miles of 8-inch pipeline. This pipeline is used for the shipment of refined products produced at the Big Spring refinery from Midland to our tank farm at Orla. Alon is the only shipper on this pipeline.
Artesia, New Mexico to Roswell, New Mexico
The 35-mile, 4-inch diameter Artesia to Roswell refined product pipeline is currently idled.
Woods Cross, Utah refined product pipelines
The Woods Cross refined product pipelines consist of three pipeline segments. The Woods Cross to Pioneer segment represents 2 miles of 10-inch pipeline that is also used for product shipments to and through the Pioneer terminal. The Woods Cross to UNEV Pipeline segment consists of 2 miles of 12-inch pipeline and is used for product shipments from HFC's Woods Cross refinery to the UNEV Pipeline origin pump station. The Woods Cross to Chevron Pipeline’s Salt Lake Products Pipeline segment consists of 4 miles of 8-inch pipeline and is used for product shipments from HFC’s Woods Cross refinery to Tesoro's Northwest Pipeline origin station. HFC is the only shipper on these pipelines.
UNEV refined product pipeline
The 417-mile, 12-inch refined products pipeline was completed in early 2012. This pipeline is used for the shipment of refined products from Woods Cross, Utah to terminals in Las Vegas, Nevada and Cedar City, Utah. HFC and Sinclair Transportation Company (“Sinclair”) are the primary shippers on this pipeline.
- 28 -
Table of Contentsril 19,
8” Pipeline from Lovington, New Mexico to Artesia, New Mexico
The 65-mile, 8-inch diameter pipeline was constructed in 1981. This pipeline is used for the shipment of intermediate feedstocks, crude oil and LPGs from the Navajo refinery Lovington facility to its Artesia facility. HFC is the primary shipper on this pipeline.
10” Pipeline from Lovington, New Mexico to Artesia, New Mexico
The 65-mile, 10-inch diameter pipeline was constructed in 1999. This pipeline is used for the shipment of intermediate feedstocks and crude oil from the Navajo refinery Lovington facility to its Artesia facility. HFC is the only shipper on this pipeline.
16” Pipeline from Lovington, New Mexico to Artesia, New Mexico
The 65-mile, 16-inch diameter pipeline was constructed in 2009. This pipeline is used for the shipment of intermediate feedstocks and crude oil from the Navajo refinery Lovington facility to its Artesia facility. HFC is the only shipper on this pipeline.
Tulsa, Oklahoma Interconnect Pipelines
Five intermediate product and gas pipelines totaling 7 miles between HFC’s Tulsa east and west refinery facilities were completed in 2011. These pipelines are used in the shipment of gas and liquids between the two facilities.
Lovington / Artesia, New Mexico crude oil pipelines
The crude oil gathering and trunk pipelines deliver crude oil to HFC’s Navajo refinery and consist of 850 miles of 4-inch, 6-inch and 8-inch diameter pipeline. The crude oil trunk pipelines consist of five pipeline segments that deliver crude oil to the Navajo refinery Lovington facility and seven pipeline segments that deliver crude oil to the Navajo refinery Artesia facility.
The Lovington system crude oil mainlines include five pipeline segments consisting of a 23-mile, 12-inch pipeline from Russell to Lovington, a 20-mile, 8-inch pipeline from Russell to Hobbs, an 11-mile, 6-inch and 8-inch pipeline from Crouch to Lovington, a 20-mile, 8-inch pipeline from Hobbs to Lovington and a 6-mile, 6-inch pipeline from Gaines to Hobbs.
The Artesia system crude oil mainlines include seven pipeline segments consisting of an 11-mile, 6-inch pipeline from Beeson to North Artesia, a 7-mile, 4-inch and 6-inch pipeline from Barnsdall to North Artesia, a 2-mile, 8-inch pipeline from the Barnsdall jumper line to Lovington, a 4-mile, 4-inch pipeline from the Artesia Station to North Artesia, a 6-mile, 8-inch pipeline from North Artesia to Evans Junction and a 1-mile, 6-inch pipeline from Abo to Evans Junction.
We operate a 12-mile, 8-inch pipeline from Evans Junction to Artesia, New Mexico that supplies natural gas to the Navajo refinery Artesia facility.
Roadrunner Pipeline
The Roadrunner crude oil pipeline connects the Navajo refinery Lovington facility to a west Texas terminal of the Centurion Pipeline that extends to Cushing, Oklahoma. It was constructed in 2009 and consists of 69 miles of 16-inch pipeline. This pipeline is used for the shipment of crude oil from Cushing to the Navajo refinery Lovington facility.
Beeson Pipeline
The Beeson crude oil pipeline delivers crude oil to the Navajo refinery Lovington facility. It was constructed in 2009 and consists of 41 miles of 8-inch pipeline. This pipeline ships crude oil from our crude oil gathering system to the Navajo refinery Lovington facility for processing.
REFINED PRODUCT TERMINALS, LOADING RACKS AND REFINERY TANKAGE
Refined Product Terminals and Loading Racks
Our refined product terminals receive products from pipelines connected to HFC’s refineries and Alon’s Big Spring refinery. We then distribute them to HFC and third parties, who in turn deliver them to end-users and retail outlets. Our terminals are generally complementary to our pipeline assets and serve HFC’s and Alon’s marketing activities and other customers. Terminals play a key role in moving product to the end-user market by providing the following services:
•
distribution;
•
blending to achieve specified grades of gasoline;
•
other ancillary services that include the injection of additives and filtering of jet fuel; and
•
storage and inventory management.
Typically, our refined product terminal facilities consist of multiple storage tanks and are equipped with automated truck loading equipment that operates 24 hours a day. This automated system provides for control of security, allocations, and credit and carrier
- 29 -
Table of Contentsril 19,
certification by remote input of data by our customers. In addition, nearly all of our terminals are equipped with truck loading racks capable of providing automated blending to individual customer specifications.
Our refined product terminals derive most of their revenues from terminalling fees paid by customers. We charge a fee for transferring refined products from the terminal to trucks or to pipelines connected to the terminal. In addition to terminalling fees, we generate revenues by charging our customers fees for blending, injecting additives, and filtering jet fuel. HFC currently accounts for the substantial majority of our refined product terminal revenues.
The table below sets forth the total average throughput for our refined product terminals in each of the periods presented:
The following table outlines the locations of our terminals and their storage capacities, number of tanks, supply source, and mode of delivery:
(1)
Inactive
(2)
The underlying ground at the Tucson terminal is leased.
(3)
Handles only jet fuel.
El Paso Terminal
We receive light refined products at this terminal from the Navajo refinery Artesia facility through our Artesia to El Paso and Artesia to Orla to El Paso pipelines and by rail that account for 87% of the volumes at this terminal. We also receive product from the Big Spring refinery that accounted for 13% of the volumes at this terminal in 2013. Refined products received at this terminal are sold locally via the truck rack or transported to our Tucson terminal and other terminals in Phoenix on Kinder Morgan’s East System pipeline. Competition in this market includes a refinery and terminal owned by Western Refining, Inc., a joint venture pipeline and terminal owned by ConocoPhillips and NuStar Energy, L.P. (“NuStar”).
- 30 -
Table of Contentsril 19,
Moriarty Terminal
We receive light refined products at this terminal from the Navajo refinery Artesia facility through our pipelines. Refined products received at this terminal are sold locally, via the truck rack. HFC is our only customer at this terminal. There are no competing terminals in Moriarty.
Bloomfield Terminal
We historically have received light refined products at this terminal from the Navajo refinery Artesia facility through our pipelines. This terminal is currently idled, with no throughput.
Tucson Terminal
We own 100% of the improvements and lease the underlying ground at this terminal. The Tucson terminal receives light refined products from Kinder Morgan’s East System pipeline, which transports refined products from the Navajo refinery Artesia facility that it receives at our El Paso terminal. Refined products received at this terminal are sold locally, via the truck rack. Competition in this market includes terminals owned by Kinder Morgan.
Mountain Home Terminal
We receive jet fuel from third parties at this terminal that is transported on Chevron’s Salt Lake City to Boise, Idaho pipeline. We then transport the jet fuel from the Mountain Home terminal through our 13-mile, 4-inch pipeline to the United States Air Force base outside of Mountain Home. Our pipeline associated with this terminal is the only pipeline that supplies jet fuel to the air base. We are paid a single fee, from the Defense Energy Support Center, for injecting, storing, testing and transporting jet fuel at this terminal.
Spokane Terminal
This terminal is connected to the Woods Cross refinery via a Chevron common carrier pipeline. The Spokane terminal also is supplied by Chevron and Yellowstone pipelines and by rail and truck. Refined products received at this terminal are sold locally, via the truck rack. We have several major customers at this terminal. Other terminals in the Spokane area include terminals owned by ExxonMobil and ConocoPhillips.
Abilene Terminal
This terminal receives refined products from Alon's Big Spring refinery, which accounted for all of its volumes in 2013. Refined products received at this terminal are sold locally via a truck rack or pumped over a 2-mile pipeline to Dyess Air Force Base. Alon is the only customer at this terminal.
Wichita Falls Terminal
This terminal receives refined products from the Alon's Big Spring refinery, which accounted for all of its volumes in 2013. Refined products received at this terminal are sold via a truck rack or shipped via pipeline connections to Alon’s terminal in Duncan, Oklahoma and also to NuStar’s Southlake Pipeline. Alon is the only customer at this terminal.
Las Vegas Terminal
This terminal is owned by UNEV and receives product from HFC and Sinclair shipped through the UNEV Pipeline originating in Woods Cross, Utah. Refined products received at this terminal are sold locally. HFC and Sinclair are the primary customers at this terminal.
Cedar City Terminal
This terminal is owned by UNEV and receives product from HFC and Sinclair shipped through the UNEV Pipeline originating in Woods Cross, Utah. Refined products received at this terminal are sold locally. HFC and Sinclair are the only customers at this terminal.
Orla Tank Farm
The Orla tank farm was constructed in 1998. It receives refined products from Alon's Big Spring refinery that accounted for all of its volumes in 2013. Refined products received at the tank farm are delivered into our Orla to El Paso pipeline. Alon is the only customer at this tank farm.
Artesia Facility Truck Rack
The truck rack at the Navajo refinery Artesia facility loads light refined products produced at the Navajo refinery, onto tanker trucks for delivery to markets in the surrounding area. HFC is the only customer of this truck rack.
- 31 -
Table of Contentsril 19,
Lovington Facility Asphalt Truck Rack
The asphalt loading rack facility at the Lovington refinery loads asphalt produced at the Lovington facility onto tanker trucks. HFC is the only customer of this truck rack.
Woods Cross Facility Truck Rack
The truck rack at the Woods Cross facility loads light refined products produced at the refinery onto tanker trucks for delivery to markets in the surrounding area. HFC is the only customer of this truck rack. HFC also makes transfers to a common carrier pipeline at this facility.
Tulsa Facilities Truck and Rail Racks
The Tulsa truck and rail loading rack facilities consist of loading racks located at HFC’s Tulsa refinery west and east facilities. Loading racks at the Tulsa refinery west facility consist of rail racks that load refined products and lube oil produced at the refinery onto rail car and a truck rack that loads lube oil onto tanker trucks. Loading racks at the Tulsa refinery east facility consist of truck and rail racks at which we load refined products and off load crude. The truck racks also load asphalt and LPG.
Cheyenne Facility Truck and Rail Racks
The Cheyenne loading rack facilities consist of light refined products, heavy products and LPG truck and rail racks. These racks load refined products and propane onto tanker trucks for delivery to markets in surrounding areas. Additionally, these facilities include four crude oil LACT units that unload crude oil from tanker trucks.
El Dorado Facility Truck Racks
The El Dorado loading rack facilities consist of a light refined products truck rack and a propane truck rack. These racks load refined products and propane onto tanker trucks for delivery to markets in surrounding areas.
Refinery Tankage
Our refinery tankage consists of on-site tankage at HFC’s refineries. Our refinery tankage derives its revenues from fixed fees or throughput charges in providing HFC’s refining facilities with 9,600,000 barrels of storage.
The following table outlines the locations of our refinery tankage, storage capacity, tankage type and number of tanks:
PIPELINE AND TERMINAL CONTROL OPERATIONS
All of our pipelines are operated via geosynchronous satellite, microwave, radio and frame relay communication systems from our central control room located in Artesia, New Mexico. We also monitor activity at our terminals from this control room.The control center operates with state-of-the-art System Control and Data Acquisition, or SCADA, systems. Our control center is equipped with computer systems designed to continuously monitor operational data, including refined product and crude oil throughput, flow rates, and pressures. In addition, the control center monitors alarms and throughput balances. The control center operates remote pumps, motors, engines, and valves associated with the delivery of refined products and crude oil. The computer systems are designed to enhance leak-detection capabilities, sound automatic alarms if operational conditions outside of pre-established parameters occur, and provide for remote-controlled shutdown of pump stations on the pipelines. Pump stations and meter-measurement points on the pipelines are linked by satellite or telephone communication systems for remote monitoring and control, which reduces our requirement for full-time on-site personnel at most of these locations.
- 32 -
Table of Contentsril 19,
Item 3.