Item 2. Properties
PIPELINES
Our refined product pipelines transport light refined products from Holly’s Navajo Refinery in New Mexico and Alon’s Big Spring Refinery in Texas to their customers in the metropolitan and rural areas of Texas, New Mexico, Arizona, Colorado, Utah, Oklahoma and northern Mexico. The refined products transported in these pipelines include conventional gasolines, federal, state and local specification reformulated gasoline, low-octane gasoline for oxygenate blending, distillates that include high- and low-sulfur diesel and jet fuel and LPGs (such as propane, butane and isobutane).
Our intermediate product pipelines consist of two parallel pipelines that originate at Holly’s Lovington, New Mexico refining facilities and terminate at Holly’s Artesia, New Mexico refining facilities. These pipelines transport intermediate feedstocks and crude oil for Holly’s refining operations in New Mexico.
Our crude pipelines consist of crude oil trunk, gathering and connection pipelines located in west Texas and New Mexico that deliver crude oil to Holly’s Navajo Refinery and crude oil and refined product pipelines that support Holly’s Woods Cross Refinery.
Our pipelines are regularly inspected, are well maintained and we believe, are in good repair. Generally, other than as provided in the pipelines and terminal agreements with Holly and Alon, substantially all of our pipelines are unrestricted as to the direction in which product flows and the types of refined products that we can transport on them. The FERC regulates the transportation tariffs for interstate shipments on our refined product pipelines and state regulatory agencies regulate the transportation tariffs for intrastate shipments on our pipelines.
The following table details the average aggregate daily number of barrels of petroleum products transported on our pipelines in each of the periods set forth below for Holly and for third parties.
The following table sets forth certain operating data for each of our crude oil and petroleum product pipelines. Except as shown below, we own 100% of our pipelines. Throughput is the total average number of barrels per day transported on a pipeline, but does not aggregate barrels moved between different points on the same pipeline. Revenues reflect tariff revenues generated by barrels shipped from an origin to a delivery point on a pipeline. Revenues also include payments made by Alon under capacity lease arrangements on our Orla to El Paso pipeline. Under these arrangements, we provide space on our pipeline for the shipment of up to 17,500 barrels of refined product per day. Alon pays us whether or not it actually ships the full volumes of refined products it is entitled to ship. To the extent Alon does not use its capacity, we are entitled to use it. We calculate the capacity of our pipelines based on the throughput capacity for barrels of gasoline equivalent that may be transported in the existing configuration; in some cases, this includes the use of drag reducing agents.
(1)
Includes 17,500 bpd of capacity on the Orla to El Paso segment of this pipeline that is leased to Alon under capacity lease agreements.
(2)
The White Lakes Junction to Moriarty segment of our Artesia to Moriarty pipeline and the Moriarty to Bloomfield pipeline is leased from Mid-America Pipeline Company, LLC (“Mid-America”) under a long-term lease agreement.
(3)
Capacity for this pipeline is reflected in the information for the Artesia to Moriarty pipeline.
(4)
We have a 70% joint venture interest in the entity that owns this pipeline that runs from West TX to El Paso, TX. Capacity reflects a 100% interest.
Holly shipped an aggregate of 68% of the petroleum products transported on our refined product pipelines and 100% of the petroleum products transported on our Intermediate Pipelines and Crude Oil pipelines in 2008. These pipelines transported approximately 95% of the light refined products produced by Holly’s Navajo Refinery in 2008.
Artesia, New Mexico to El Paso, Texas
The Artesia to El Paso refined product pipeline is regulated by the FERC. It was constructed in 1959 and consists of 156 miles of 6-inch pipeline. This pipeline is used for the shipment of refined products produced at Holly’s Navajo Refinery to our El Paso terminal, where we deliver to common carrier pipelines for transportation to Arizona, northern New Mexico and northern Mexico and to the terminal’s tank farm for truck rack loading for local delivery by tanker truck. The refined products shipped on this pipeline represented 14% of the total light refined products produced at Holly’s Navajo Refinery during 2008. Refined products produced at Holly’s Navajo Refinery destined for El Paso are transported on either this pipeline or our Artesia to Orla to El Paso pipeline.
Artesia, New Mexico to Orla, Texas to El Paso, Texas
The Artesia to Orla to El Paso refined product pipeline is a common-carrier pipeline regulated by the FERC and consists of three segments:
There are two shippers on this pipeline, Holly and Alon. In 2008, this pipeline transported to our El Paso terminal 61% of the light refined products produced at Holly’s Navajo Refinery. As mentioned above, refined products destined to the El Paso terminal are delivered to common carrier pipelines for transportation to Arizona, northern New Mexico and northern Mexico and to the terminal’s truck rack for local delivery by tanker truck.
At Orla, product is received into our tankage from Alon’s Big Spring Refinery via our FinTex Pipeline. These volumes are then sent from Orla to El Paso, either directly from the Artesia to Orla segment or from tankage in Orla.
Artesia, New Mexico to Moriarty, New Mexico
The Artesia to Moriarty refined product pipeline consists of a 60-mile, 12-inch pipeline from Holly’s Artesia facility to White Lakes Junction, New Mexico that was constructed in 1999, and approximately 155 miles of 8-inch pipeline that was constructed in 1973 and extends from White Lakes Junction to our Moriarty terminal, where it also connects to our Moriarty to Bloomfield pipeline. We own the 12-inch pipeline from Artesia to White Lakes Junction. We lease the White Lakes Junction to Moriarty segment of this pipeline and the Moriarty to Bloomfield pipeline described below, from Mid-America Pipeline Company, LLC under a long-term lease agreement entered into in 1996, which expires in 2017 and has two ten-year extensions at our option. At our Moriarty terminal, volumes shipped on this pipeline can be transported to other markets in the area, including Albuquerque, Santa Fe and west Texas, via tanker truck. The 155-mile White Lakes Junction to Moriarty segment of this pipeline is operated by Mid-America (or its designee). Holly is the only shipper on this pipeline. We currently pay a monthly fee (which is subject to adjustments based on changes in the PPI) of $513,000 to Mid-America to lease the White Lakes Junction to Moriarty and Moriarty to Bloomfield pipelines.
Moriarty, New Mexico to Bloomfield, New Mexico
The Moriarty to Bloomfield refined product pipeline was constructed in 1973 and consists of 191 miles of 8-inch pipeline leased from Mid-America. This pipeline serves our terminal in Bloomfield. At our Bloomfield terminal, volumes shipped on this pipeline are transported to other markets in the Four Corners area via tanker truck. This pipeline is operated by Mid-America (or its designee). Holly is the only shipper on this pipeline.
Big Spring, Texas to Abilene, Texas
The Big Spring to Abilene refined product pipeline was constructed in 1957 and consists of 100 miles of 6-inch pipeline and 5 miles of 8-inch pipeline. This pipeline is used for the shipment of refined products produced at Alon’s Big Spring Refinery to the Abilene terminal. Alon is the only shipper on this pipeline.
Big Spring, Texas to Wichita Falls, Texas
Segments of the Big Spring to Wichita Falls refined product pipeline were constructed in 1969 and 1989, and consist of 95 miles of 6-inch pipeline and 132 miles of 8-inch pipeline. This pipeline is used for the shipment of refined products produced at Alon’s Big Spring Refinery to the Wichita Falls terminal. Alon is the only shipper on this pipeline.
Wichita Falls, Texas to Duncan, Oklahoma
The Wichita Falls to Duncan refined product pipeline is a common carrier and is regulated by the FERC. It was constructed in 1958 and consists of 47 miles of 6-inch pipeline. This pipeline is used for the shipment of refined products from the Wichita Falls terminal to Alon’s Duncan terminal, which we do not own. Alon is the only shipper on this pipeline.
Midland, Texas to Orla, Texas
Segments of the Midland to Orla refined product pipeline were constructed in 1928 and 1998, and consist of 50 miles of 10-inch pipeline and 85 miles of 8-inch pipeline. This pipeline is used for the shipment of refined products produced at Alon’s Big Spring Refinery from Midland to our tank farm at Orla. Alon is the only shipper on this pipeline.
Artesia, New Mexico to Roswell, New Mexico
The 36-mile 4-inch diameter Artesia to Roswell refined product pipeline delivers jet fuel only to tanks located at our jet fuel terminal in Roswell. Holly is the only shipper on this pipeline.
Woods Cross, Utah refined product pipelines
The Woods Cross refined products pipelines consist of three pipeline segments. The Woods Cross to Pioneer Terminal segment consists of 2 miles of 8-inch pipeline and is used for product shipments to and through the Pioneer Terminal. The Woods Cross to Pioneer segment represents 2 miles of 10-inch pipeline that is also used for product shipments to and through the Pioneer Terminal. The Woods Cross to Chevron Pipeline’s Salt Lake Products Pipeline segment consists of 4 miles of 8-inch pipeline and is used for product shipments from the Woods Cross Refinery to Chevron’s North Salt Lake pumping station. Holly is the only shipper on these pipelines.
8” Pipeline from Lovington, New Mexico to Artesia, New Mexico
The 65-mile 8-inch diameter pipeline was constructed in 1981. This pipeline is used for the shipment of intermediate feedstocks, crude oil and LPGs from Holly’s Lovington facility to its Artesia facility.
10” Pipeline from Lovington, New Mexico to Artesia, New Mexico
The 65-mile 10-inch diameter pipeline was constructed in 1999. This pipeline is used for the shipment of intermediate feedstocks and crude oil from Holly’s Lovington facility to its Artesia facility. Holly is the only shipper on this pipeline.
Crude Oil Pipelines that deliver to Holly’s Navajo Refinery
The crude oil mainline gathering and mainline pipelines deliver crude oil to Holly’s Navajo Refinery and consists of 850 miles of 4-inch and 6-inch diameter pipeline and 450,000 barrels of crude oil tankage. The crude oil mainline pipelines consists of five pipeline segments that deliver crude oil to the Navajo Lovington facility and eight pipeline segments that deliver crude oil to the Navajo Artesia facility.
The Lovington system crude oil mainlines include five pipeline segments consisting of a 23-mile 12-inch pipeline from Russell to Lovington, a 20-mile 8-inch pipeline from Russell to Hobbs, an 11-mile 6-inch and 8-inch pipeline from Crouch to Lovington, a 20-mile 8-inch pipeline from Hobbs to Lovington and a 6-mile 6-inch pipeline from Gaines to Jobs.
The Artesia system crude oil mainlines include eight pipeline segments consisting of an 11-mile 6-inch pipeline from Beeson to North Artesia, a 7-mile 4-inch and 6-inch pipeline from Barnsdall to North Artesia, a 2-mile 8-inch pipeline from the Barnsdall jumper line to Lovington, a 4-mile 4-inch pipeline from the Artesia Station to North Artesia, a 6-mile 8-inch pipeline from North Artesia to Evans Junction, a 1-mile 6-inch pipeline from Abo to Evans Junction and a 12-mile 8-inch pipeline from Evans Junction to Artesia.
Woods Cross, Utah crude oil pipeline
This 4-mile 12-inch pipeline is used for the shipment of crude oil from Chevron Pipe Line’s North Salt Lake City station to Holly’s Woods Cross Refinery.
Rio Grande Pipeline
We own a 70% interest in Rio Grande, a joint venture that owns a 249-mile, 8-inch common carrier LPG pipeline regulated by the FERC. The other owner of Rio Grande is a subsidiary of BP. The pipeline originates from a connection with an Enterprise pipeline in west Texas at Lawson Junction, which serves as its primary receipt point, although there is an additional receipt point near Midland, Texas. The pipeline terminates at the Mexico border near San Elizario, Texas. The pipeline transports LPGs for ultimate use by Petróleos Mexicanos (PEMEX, the government-owned energy company of Mexico.) Rio Grande does not own any facilities or pipelines in Mexico. The pipeline has a current capacity of approximately 27,000 bpd. This pipeline was originally constructed in the mid 1950’s, was first reconditioned in 1988, and subsequently reconditioned in 1996 and 2003. Approximately 75 miles of this pipeline has been replaced with new pipe, and an additional 50 miles has been recoated.
Currently, only LPG’s are transported on this pipeline. In January 2009, Rio Grande executed a 5-year throughput agreement with PMI Trading Ltd. that provides for the shipment of a minimum average of 16,000 bpd of LPG’s during the term of the agreement. The tariff rates and shipping regulations are regulated by the FERC. In January 2005, Rio Grande appointed us as operator of the pipeline system effective April 1, 2005 through January 31, 2010. As operator, we receive a management fee of $1.3 million per year, adjusted annually for any changes in the PPI.
An officer of HLS is one of the two members of Rio Grande’s management committee.
REFINED PRODUCT TERMINALS, TRUCK RACKS AND REFINERY CRUDE OIL TANKAGE
Refined Product Terminals and Truck Racks
Our refined product terminals receive products from pipelines connected to Holly’s Navajo and Woods Cross Refineries and Alon’s Big Spring Refinery. We then distribute them to Holly and third parties, who in turn deliver them to end-users and retail outlets. Our terminals are generally complementary to our pipeline assets and serve Holly’s and Alon’s marketing activities. Terminals play a key role in moving product to the end-user market by providing the following services:
•
distribution;
•
blending to achieve specified grades of gasoline;
•
other ancillary services that include the injection of additives and filtering of jet fuel; and
•
storage and inventory management.
Typically, our refined product terminal facilities consist of multiple storage tanks and are equipped with automated truck loading equipment that operates 24 hours a day. This automated system provides for control of security, allocations, and credit and carrier certification by remote input of data by our customers. In addition, nearly all of our terminals are equipped with truck loading racks capable of providing automated blending to individual customer specifications.
Our refined product terminals derive most of their revenues from terminalling fees paid by customers. We charge a fee for transferring refined products from the terminal to trucks or to pipelines connected to the terminal. In addition to terminalling fees, we generate revenues by charging our customers fees for blending, injecting additives, and filtering jet fuel. Holly currently accounts for the substantial majority of our refined product terminal revenues.
The table below sets forth the total average throughput for our refined product terminals in each of the periods presented:
The following table outlines the locations of our terminals and their storage capacities, number of tanks, supply source, and mode of delivery:
(1)
The underlying ground at the Tucson terminal is leased.
(2)
Handles only jet fuel.
(3)
We have a 50% ownership interest in these terminals. The capacity and throughput information represents the proportionate share of capacity and throughput attributable to our ownership interest.
El Paso Terminal
We receive light refined products at this terminal from Holly’s Artesia facility through our Artesia to El Paso and Artesia to Orla to El Paso pipelines and by rail that account for approximately 97% of the volumes at this terminal. We also receive product from Alon’s Big Spring Refinery that accounted for 3% of the volumes at this terminal in 2008. Refined products received at this terminal are sold locally via the truck rack or transported to our Tucson terminal and other terminals in Phoenix on Kinder Morgan’s East System pipeline. Competition in this market includes a refinery and terminal owned by Western Refining, Inc., a joint venture pipeline and terminal owned by ConocoPhillips and NuStar Energy, L.P. (“NuStar”) and a terminal connected to the Longhorn Pipeline.
Moriarty Terminal
We receive light refined products at this terminal from Holly’s Artesia facility through our pipelines. Refined products received at this terminal are sold locally, via the truck rack; Holly is our only customer at this terminal. There are no competing terminals in Moriarty.
Bloomfield Terminal
We receive light refined products at this terminal from Holly’s Artesia facility through our pipelines. Refined products received at this terminal are sold locally, via the truck rack; Holly is our only customer at this terminal. Competition in this market includes a refinery and truck loading rack owned by Western Refining, Inc.
Tucson Terminal
We own 100% of the improvements and lease underlying ground at this terminal. The Tucson terminal receives light refined products from Kinder Morgan’s East System pipeline, which transports refined products from Holly’s Artesia facility that it receives at our El Paso terminal. Refined products received at this terminal are sold locally, via the truck rack. Competition in this market includes terminals owned by Kinder Morgan and CalJet.
Mountain Home Terminal
We receive jet fuel from third parties at this terminal that is transported on Chevron’s Salt Lake City to Boise, Idaho pipeline. We then transport the jet fuel from the Mountain Home terminal through our 13-mile, 4-inch pipeline to the United States Air Force base outside of Mountain Home. Our pipeline associated with this terminal is the only pipeline that supplies jet fuel to the air base. We are paid a single fee, from the Defense Energy Support Center, for injecting, storing, testing and transporting jet fuel at this terminal.
Boise Terminal
We and Sinclair Transportation Company (“Sinclair’) each own a 50% interest in the Boise terminal. Sinclair is the operator of the terminal. The Boise terminal receives light refined products from Holly and Sinclair shipped through Chevron’s pipeline originating in Salt Lake City, Utah. The Woods Cross Refinery, as well as other refineries in the Salt Lake City area, and Pioneer Pipeline Co.’s terminal in Salt Lake City are connected to the Chevron pipeline. All loading of products out of the Boise terminal is conducted at Chevron’s loading rack, which is connected to the Boise terminal by pipeline. Holly and Sinclair are the only customers at this terminal.
Burley Terminal
We and Sinclair each own a 50% interest in the Burley terminal. Sinclair is the operator of the terminal. The Burley terminal receives product from Holly and Sinclair shipped through Chevron’s pipeline originating in Salt Lake City, Utah. Refined products received at this terminal are sold locally, via the truck rack. Holly and Sinclair are the only customers at this terminal.
Spokane Terminal
This terminal is connected to the Woods Cross Refinery via a Chevron common carrier pipeline. The Spokane terminal also is supplied by Chevron and Yellowstone pipelines and by rail and truck. Refined products received at this terminal are sold locally, via the truck rack. We have several major customers at this terminal. Other terminals in the Spokane area include terminals owned by ExxonMobil and ConocoPhillips.
Abilene Terminal
This terminal receives refined products from Alon’s Big Spring Refinery, which accounted for all of its volumes in 2008. Refined products received at this terminal are sold locally via a truck rack or pumped over a 2-mile pipeline to Dyess Air Force Base. Alon is the only customer at this terminal.
Wichita Falls Terminal
This terminal receives refined products from Alon’s Big Spring Refinery, which accounted for all of its volumes in 2008. Refined products received at this terminal are sold via a truck rack or shipped via pipeline connections to Alon’s terminal in Duncan, Oklahoma and also to NuStar’s Southlake Pipeline. Alon is the only customer at this terminal.
Roswell Terminal
This terminal receives jet fuel from Holly’s Navajo Refinery, which accounted for all of its volumes in 2008, for further transport to Cannon Air Force Base and to Albuquerque, New Mexico. We lease this terminal under an agreement that expires in September 2011.
Orla Tank Farm
The Orla tank farm was constructed in 1998. It receives refined products from Alon’s Big Spring Refinery that accounted for all of its volumes in 2008. Refined products received at the tank farm are delivered into our Orla to El Paso pipeline. Alon is the only customer at this tank farm.
Artesia Facility Truck Rack
The truck rack at Holly’s Artesia facility loads light refined products, produced at the facility, onto tanker trucks for delivery to markets in the surrounding area. Holly is the only customer of this truck rack.
Woods Cross Facility Truck Rack
The truck rack at Holly’s Woods Cross facility loads light refined products produced at Holly’s Woods Cross Refinery onto tanker trucks for delivery to markets in the surrounding area. Holly is the only customer of this truck rack. Holly also makes transfers to a common carrier pipeline at this facility.
Refinery Crude Oil Tankage
Our refinery tankage consists of on-site crude oil tankage at Holly’s Navajo and Woods Cross Refineries. Our refinery tankage derives its revenues from fixed fees charged in providing the Holly’s refining facilities with approximately 600,000 barrels per month of crude storage.
The following table outlines the locations of our refinery crude oil tankage, storage capacity and number of tanks:
TRUCK FLEET
We have a truck fleet consisting of 7 trucks and 13 trailers that transport crude oil to Holly’s Wood Cross Refinery. Our trucking operations are conducted in Utah only and Holly is our only customer.
PIPELINE AND TERMINAL CONTROL OPERATIONS
All of our pipelines are operated via geosynchronous satellite, microwave, radio and frame relay communication systems from our central control room located in Artesia, New Mexico. We also monitor activity at our terminals from this control room.
The control center operates with state-of-the-art System Control and Data Acquisition, or SCADA, systems. Our control center is equipped with computer systems designed to continuously monitor operational data, including refined product and crude oil throughput, flow rates, and pressures. In addition, the control center monitors alarms and throughput balances. The control center operates remote pumps, motors, engines, and valves associated with the delivery of refined products and crude oil. The computer systems are designed to enhance leak-detection capabilities, sound automatic alarms if operational conditions outside of pre-established parameters occur, and provide for remote-controlled shutdown of pump stations on the pipelines. Pump stations and meter-measurement points on the pipelines are linked by satellite or telephone communication systems for remote monitoring and control, which reduces our requirement for full-time on-site personnel at most of these locations.
Item 3.