ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
Cerro Blanco Property
Through our Chilean subsidiary we hold mining concessions for 33 registered mining exploitation concessions, and 5 exploration concessions, over approximately 8,225 hectares in Chile. We are in the exploration stage, which means we are engaged in the search for mineral deposits or reserves which could be economically and legally extracted or produced. We are conducting a drilling campaign and pre-feasibility work in preparation for a feasibility study to determine whether the concessions contain commercially viable ore reserves. If we are successful in obtaining a feasibility study which supports commercially viable ore reserves, we intend to exploit the concessions and to produce titanium dioxide concentrate through conventional open pit mining and minerals processing. Our business plan is to explore solely for titanium deposits or reserves on the Cerro Blanco mining concessions.
Glossary of Terms
Certain terms used in this section are defined in the following glossary:
ALKALIC DIORITE-GABBRO-PYROXENITE INTRUSIVE: a potassium and sodium rich, coarse grained and possibly dark colored igneous rock with associated magnesium and iron that consolidated from magma beneath the earth's surface.
DEVELOPMENT: work carried out for the purpose of opening up a mineral deposit and making the actual extraction possible.
DISSEMINATED: fine particles of mineral dispensed through the enclosing rock.
EXPLOITATION MINING CONCESSIONS: licensed claims where the holder has the right to permit, develop, and operate a mine.
EXPLORATION: work involved in searching for ore by geological mapping, geochemistry, geophysics, drilling and other methods.
GRADE: mineral or metal content per unit of rock or concentrate or expression of relative quality e.g. high or low grade.
INTRUSIVE: a volume of igneous rock that was injected, while still molten, and crystallized within the earth’s crust.
MINERALIZATION: the concentration of metals and their compounds in rocks, and the processes involved therein.
ORE: material that can be economically mined from an ore body and processed.
RECLAMATION: the restoration of a site after exploration activity or mining is completed.
RUTILE: a mineral, titanium dioxide (TiO2), trimorpheus with anatase and brookite.
TiO2: Titanium dioxide. The form of titanium found in the mineral rutile.
TITANIUM: a widely distributed dark grey metallic element, (Ti), found in small quantities in many minerals. The mineral ilmenite, (FeTiO3), is currently the principal feedstock for the production of titanium dioxide (TiO2) powder and titanium metal.
Location and Access
The Cerro Blanco property is located approximately 39 kilometers, or approximately 24 miles, west of the city of Vallenar in the Atacama geographic region (Region III) of northern Chile and southwest of the Cerro Rodeo Mining District. Access to the property is as follows: The main Ruta 5, the PanAmerican Highway, runs north from Santiago for approximately 625 kilometers to Vallenar; from there a paved road runs west toward the Port of Huasco for a distance of 22 kilometers to the village of Nicolasa; at Nicolasa a municipally maintained dirt road runs approximately 14 kilometers southwest to the property. Management believes access to the property is adequate to accommodate the type of vehicles and traffic during the exploration stage on the property. Improvements to the dirt road will be required for the development and production stages. These improvements will include widening of the road and topping it with gravel. Management believes adequate supplies of bedrock and gravel are available for this purpose, although it currently has no arrangements or agreements to provide either the improvement services or supplies. The area is served by a regional airport at Vallenar.
Cerro Blanco lies within an established mining district where management believes experienced mineworkers and support personnel are available. Labor rates in the region are considerably less costly when compared with standard North American rates. Mining is one of the main sectors of the Chilean economy and Region III has a broad base of mining contractors and suppliers of both new and used mining and processing equipment.
The local climate is generally arid with little rainfall in normal years. Vegetation is minimal, supporting only desert scrub and sparse cactus. Topography consists of low hills with a mean elevation of 100 meters, which are incised periodically by active creeks. The Huasco River, 15 kilometers, approximately 9 miles, to the north, is a source of water. Additionally, high-tension power lines pass 15 kilometers, approximately 9 miles, to the north of the property along the Vallenar-Huasco highway.
In addition to road transport links, power and water access, a port facility with a capacity to handle 70,000 ton ships is accessible at Huasco, which is 30 kilometers, approximately 19 miles, northwest of the property. The property also lies close to a fully operational rail track. If necessary, a spur line could be run into the property linking it directly to the port.
Title Status and Exploration Rights
Under the Chilean mining code, surveyed mineral concessions can be held in perpetuity subject only to an annual tax based on the land held. We have converted our existing exploration licenses into 33 exploitation licenses. The tax payment for March 2008 was approximately $55,000 based upon the status of the mining concessions and the currency exchange rate at that time. The payment for March 2009 and 2010 was $55,000 and $78,400 at the prevailing exchange rate. We estimate that the amount for 2011 will be $78,400.
The Chilean mining code does not convey surface rights to owners of the mining concessions. However, the owners of mining concessions are entitled to the establishment of the necessary easements for mining exploration and exploitation. The surface lands are subject to the burden of being occupied, to the extent required by mining operations, by ore yards and dumps, slag and tailings, ore extraction and benefaction plants, electric substations and communications lines, canals, reservoirs, piping, housing, construction and supplementary works, and to the encumbrance of transit and of being occupied by roads, railways, piping, tunnels, inclined planes, cableways, conveyor belts and all other means used to connect the operations of the concession with public roads, benefaction facilities, railroad stations, shipping ports, and consumer centers. The establishment of these easements, the exercise thereof, and the compensation therefore, are to be agreed upon either between the concession owner and the surface owner, or are established by court decision under a special brief procedure contemplated by the law.
The surface rights are owned by Agrosuper, a large Chilean agricultural concern.. Upon completion of the final feasibility study, we intend to either negotiate surface rights with Agrospuper or to apply to local courts for these surface rights. This is an ongoing progress. Nevertheless, should this alternative fail, we will proceed to seek the easement through the court, which under Chilean mining law we have the right to obtain. We do not anticipate any material difficulty with surface rights on the Cerro Blanco property.
Exploration History
In 1990-1991, the western half of the property, then referred to as Barranca Negra, was held under option by Adonos Resources of Toronto, Canada, who conducted extensive rock sampling, geological mapping and 450 meters of trenching. In 1992 the property was optioned by Phelps Dodge, to which they applied the name Freirina. In late 1992 and early 1993, 1,200 meters of diamond and 6,000 meters of reverse circulation drilling were completed, principally in the most westerly Cerro Blanco anomaly. In 1993 two 15 ton bulk samples were taken for metallurgical testing. A gravity concentrate was produced from a 15 ton sample of this material by Lakefield Research in Santiago. Fifty kilos of this concentrate were shipped to Carpco Inc. in Florida for further gravity circuit up-grading followed by dry-milling using magnetic and electrostatic separation techniques.
In 1999, Dorado Mineral Resources N.L. purchased the property and re-named the property Celtic. In February 2000, a preliminary processing test carried out by RMG Services Pty. Ltd., Adelaide, Australia, on behalf of Dorado, used combined microwave leaching and flotation in the up-grading of Celtic (Freirina) gravity concentrate. In June 2000 a review and summary of prior exploration programs and results was conducted by an independent geological consultant on behalf of Dorado Mineral Resources N.L. A cross-sectional estimation of the resource potential of the Cerro Blanco deposit based on the prior drilling and surface sampling was completed as part of this study. Later the same month a scoping study based on level plans produced for the area of highest density drilling was undertaken on behalf of Dorado Recursos Minerales Chile S.A. by Tecniterrae Limitada, a Santiago based group of consulting mining engineers.
In November and December 2000 a further study was commissioned by Dorado Recursos Minerales Chile S.A. to supervise the collection of a second bulk sample of 25 tons for metallurgical testing. Also during this program the Cerro Blanco area was geologically re-mapped. In August 2001, ownership of the property was transferred to Kinrade Resources Limited. Subsequent to these events, Kinrade defaulted on its obligations and was unable to meet the payment schedules as required under contract. In the fall of 2003 ownership of the property passed to Sociedad Contractual Minera White Mountain Titanium, formerly known as Compañía Minera Rutile Resources Limitada, the wholly owned subsidiary of White Mountain Titanium Corporation. The purchase was completed in September 2005.
Geology and Mineralization
Management believes the Cerro Blanco property contains a large and possibly unique type of titanium mineralization. Nevertheless, we are still in the exploration stage of development and there are no known reserves on the property. The titaniferous mineral located on the property is clean red-brown and black rutile which occurs disseminated with the tonalitic suite of an alkalic diorite-gabbro-pyroxenite intrusive. Its uniformly disseminated nature and associated alteration endow it with strong similarities to porphyry copper deposits. Natural rutile concentrates such as found on this property would be the preferred feed stock for both titanium metal and pigment grade titanium dioxide production.
Exploration Results and Plans
During 2006, we undertook two separate drilling campaigns. The first was designed to test ore variability, and provided 15 different composites which were subjected to metallurgical testing. The second campaign, which commenced in October 2006, centered on an exploration program consisting mainly of infill and step out drilling, grade variability studies and regional reconnaissance in search of possible extensions to the mineralization and geologic modelling. On January 24, 2007, we announced that we had completed a 16-hole diamond drilling campaign, totaling over 2,900 meters at Cerro Blanco. The principal objectives of this campaign were to increase resources in the central portion of the main zone as well as to test new target areas to the south and south-west. Core recoveries in excess of 95% were achieved in the majority of holes drilled. Split core samples were sent in for on-going metallurgical testing, and whole-core geotechnical testing has been carried out in respect of rock mechanics for mine planning purposes.
Planning and execution of the drilling campaign was closely linked to previous metallurgical test work. The principal focus was to target titanium resources which would yield a high grade TiO2 concentrate from conventional flotation. After an extensive evaluation of historic data, our contract geologists devised and are now utilizing an ore ranking system, MR1 (“Mine Rank 1”) through to MR4, with ranks MR1 and MR2 producing the best, and most commercially acceptable chemical product specifications. Data from the latest drilling campaign was input into a geological model and this model, together with ongoing technical work, will be integrated into a resource model.
Titanium mineralization starts at surface and extends over long intercepts with both attributes offering the potential for low mining costs. We believe we have good results in the central portion of the main zone of Cerro Blanco, as well as significant potential for further resource development to the south and south-west areas of the property.
During 2007, the Company’s geological team undertook and extensive geochemical sampling program at the Eli prospect. Working on a 25 by 25 meter grid, the team took nearly 700 samples of outcrop material over an area of 1100 meters by 900 meters. These were sent for chemical assay. Samples showed mineralization with TiO2 grades in the range 1.0% to 3.0%; two samples from high grade vein material reported results in excess of 21% TiO2 and 25% TiO2, respectively.
In early 2008 the Company built a 12 kilometer, 5 meter wide access road to and around Eli. Drill pads were constructed on 50 meter centers adjacent to the road grid covering the prospect. An initial drill program, which involved two diamond drill rigs, commenced in late April and ran through June. Approximately 4,000 meters of drilling was completed. The Company is awaiting final analyses and a compilation report on the program.
In January 2008 the Company retained Thomas A. Henricksen, PhD. and a qualified person under Canadian National Instrument 43-101 to prepare a NI 43-101 compliant technical report on the Cerro Blanco property (the “Technical Report”). The Technical Report, which was dated February 25, 2008, was based on extensive geological mapping, surface sampling, 14,078 meters of drilling and a geological model developed by the Company.
Following completion of the Technical Report, the Company retained Dr. Henricksen to compile a NI 43-101 compliant preliminary assessment of the Cerro Blanco project (the “Assessment”). The Assessment, which was dated May 30, 2008, incorporated by reference the Technical Report as well as reports prepared for the Company by other independent experts in their fields. The latter reports include preliminary process engineering and costing report prepared by AMEC-Cade dated March, 2008, a preliminary pit design report prepared by NCL Ingenieria y Construccion dated May 2008, various metallurgical reports prepared by SGS Lakefield, an environmental base line study prepared by Arcadis Geotecnica dated December 2004 and titanium marketing information provided by the Company’s marketing consultant.
For engineering design purposes, the Assessment adopted a base case set of assumptions, the major assumptions being the construction of an open pit mine, processing plant and ancillary facilities capable of producing 100,000 tonnes per year of high grade rutile concentrate grading plus 94.5% TiO2 at start up, scaling to 130,000 tonnes per year in production Year 4 at an assumed undiluted head grade to the plant of 2.3% TiO2. Mining would commence on the Las Carolinas prospect and feed would be conveyed downhill to a processing plant located less than two kilometers to the northeast. Within the plant, the process flow sheet consisted of a semi-autogenous grinding mill, gravity pre-concentration and column flotation circuits and high intensity magnetic separation with process water sourced from a desalination plant constructed at the port of Huasco. AMEC-Cade assumed that mining would be done under contract at a cost of US$1.20 per tonne mined and that the price of high grade rutile concentrates would be US$500 per tonne FOB port.
Based on these assumptions AMEC-Cade, our internationally recognized engineering contractor, designed a processing plant with an initial operating capacity of approximately 5.1 million tonnes per year, increasing to approximately 6.1 million tonnes per year by Year 4. They estimated a cost to construct the plant and ancillary facilities of US$117 million in direct costs and US$42 million in indirect costs, for a total of US$159 million. To this figure, and as this was a preliminary study, AMEC-Cade added a 20% contingency to arrive at a total estimated cost of US$190 million. With respect to processing plant operating costs, AMEC-Cade estimated site and transportation costs to port of US$3.60 per tonne processed (US$184 per tonne of rutile concentrate) in Year 1, dropping to US$3.50 per tonne processed (US$180 per tonne of rutile concentrate) in Year 4. The anticipated reduction in operating costs is attributed to increased volumes as well as increased efficiencies from the gravity pre-concentration circuit. Electric power consumption was the highest single cost item, comprising approximately 31% of the total estimated unit operating costs. AMEC-Cade recommended that the Company proceed to the pilot stage and investigate two possibilities for reducing capital costs: the use of sea water rather than desalinated water in the processing plant and siting the plant elsewhere on the property to lower the installed cost of the conveyor. Two alternate sites were identified.
In December 2009 we announced completion of a detailed Stage 2 pilot plant test work program culminating in one 60 hour continuous test run. The primary objective of the Stage 2 pilot plant test work was to produce a natural rutile, titanium dioxide concentrate meeting the chemical and particulate specifications of titanium pigment and sponge metal producers. The test work was conducted on a 275 tonne bulk sample representative of currently identified, at and near surface natural rutile mineralization sourced from the Las Carolinas prospect at our Cerro Blanco project. The bulk sample, which was taken from an area of the Las Carolinas prospect which could be chosen to provide initial mine feed to a full scale process plant, assayed 2.9% TiO2.
Following crushing to minus ½ inch, mill underflow was fed to a gravity pre-concentration circuit which consisted of a fine fraction recovery cyclone as well as middlings and coarse fraction mechanical vibrating tables. The mechanical vibrating tables concentrated the higher specific gravity, natural rutile while rejecting some 50% by volume of the lower specific gravity feed material. The result of gravity pre-concentration was to upgrade the natural rutile being processed from an initial grade of 2.9% TiO2 to a grade of approximately 5.0% TiO2. Upgraded material from the gravity pre-concentration circuit was fed to a conditioning tank for pH adjustment and from there to a conventional flotation circuit for further recovery, concentration and cleaning. Flotation feed from the conditioning tank was passed to rougher, scavenger and 5 cleaning flotation stages, where the majority of the natural rutile was recovered and concentrated. An acid pH in the flotation circuit between 3.5 and 4.75 was maintained in the flotation circuit. Tailings from the flotation circuit could form the feed source for a feldspar recovery circuit.
Following the final flotation cleaning stage, the natural rutile, titanium dioxide concentrate was fed to a high intensity magnetic separator to remove magnetic and para-magnetic minerals. Magnetic separation resulted in two concentrate products: a high grade natural rutile, titanium dioxide concentrate and a magnetic and para-magnetic minerals by-product concentrate.
The following table provides a chemical analysis of the final product from the 60 hour test run for both + and -75 micron fractions after magnetic separation:
Table 17. Magnetic Separation Results from the Concentrate
produced during Continuous Operation - Non-magnetics
Following completion of the Stage 2 pilot plant test work, we conducted further optimization test work on the rutile process flow sheet, specifically the use of spirals and Knelson concentrators in the gravity pre-concentration circuit and the use of sea water as the aqueous medium in the flotation circuit. In January 2010 we released results from this optimization test work which stated that spirals were a viable alternative to mechanical vibrating tables in the pre-concentration circuit and that comparable concentrate grades and recoveries were obtained using sea water versus fresh water as the aqueous medium in the flotation circuit.
Also in January 2010 we reported that we had successfully completed a locked cycle, flotation test work program to recover feldspar from natural rutile (titanium dioxide) flotation tailings.
All test work was carried out in an acidic environment (pH 3.5 to 5.5)-very similar to pH conditions previously used in the flotation of rutile. Management believes this is an important achievement as it obviates the need to undertake major pH adjustment from the rutile to the feldspar flotation circuit. A sodium feldspar concentrate assaying 9.07% Na2O and 0.37% Fe2O3 was produced using fresh water as the aqueous medium and minimal addition of flotation reagents. As with the natural rutile, titanium dioxide concentrate results achieved in the optimization test work, comparable sodium feldspar concentrate grades were obtained using sea water versus fresh water as the aqueous medium.
With respect to mining, mining costs would be in addition to the processing plant operating costs estimates set out above. A preliminary mine plan will be prepared once further drilling has been completed. At present NCL have modeled preliminary optimized pits for only the Central Zone of the Las Carolinas prospect on the assumption that this could be the initial pit area. The pits were modeled using 10 x 10 x 10 meter blocks and base case pit wall angles of 45 degrees, with sensitivities run at 50 degrees. Whilst the objective of our mapping, surface sampling and drilling programs is to both increase the quantity and classification of TiO2 resources on the Cerro Blanco property, the project is at an exploration stage and there is no guarantee of future exploration success or of economic viability. For these reasons, project cash flow estimates are not included in the Assessment.
Arcadis Geotecnica conducted an environmental base line study in 2005 -2006 over the Las Carolinas and La Cantera prospects. Based on field information gathered, vegetation in the area was comprised mostly of bushes, cactus and plants characteristically found in desert regions and areas of sandy and stony soils. Whilst no native animals were observed, animals potentially living in the area would include foxes, rodents, pumas, guanacos, rabbits and reptiles. The study stated that a mining operation as contemplated would have no significant impact on land vertebrates but care would need to be exercised on the northern slopes favored by reptiles. Six underground springs were identified, several with only seasonal flow. As well six houses were observed extending from the project north towards Vallenar, three of which are occupied on a permanent basis. Conversations with the inhabitants suggested that they would have a positive view of the project due to the economic and social benefits it would bring. Arcadis Geotecnica recommended an intensive follow up survey of one ravine for possible archaeological relics and indentified two areas for the possible stockpiling of waste rock. We retained Arcadis Geotechnica to complete the recommended follow up survey and no archaeological relics were found.
The Assessment concluded that results from the considerable body of work completed on the project to date support the our recommended, phased work programs and that the estimated costs for the work programs were reasonable and adequate to the present stage of the project. The overall objective of our work programs is to complete an independent final feasibility study which supports the construction of a natural rutile, TiO2 mining operation on the property.
On July 7, 2010 we reported that road building and drill pad construction had been completed at the Las Carolinas prospect in readiness for a 7,500 meter diamond drilling program. The objective of the drilling program was to upgrade sufficient of the current resource to a measured and indicated classification to support a 5 - 6 million tonne per year mining operation for 20 years.
On September 27, 2010 we announced that preparations had commenced for the start of the final engineering feasibility study (“Final Feasibility”) at the Cerro Blanco titanium project, previous project milestones relating to geology, geologic resources, metallurgy, pilot plant test work resulting in production of commercial grade titanium dioxide concentrates and a preliminary economic assessment have been achieved.
The remaining milestones to be achieved to take the project to Final Feasibility include in-fill and step out drilling at the Las Carolinas prospect; processing test work to enhance the product specifications for a planned sodium feldspar concentrate; an environmental impact study; a definitive engineering and economic assessment of the proposed mine and associated titanium / feldspar processing plant; operating permits, process water and surface access rights.
Work on the first of these, the drilling milestone, is underway. At the Las Carolinas prospect the Company’s geological staff has completed access roads to 50 new drill pads. The drilling at Las Carolinas will total approximately 7,500 meters, comprised of 50 diamond drill holes. This drilling, typically to an average depth of 150 metres, is designed to reclassify more of the established geologic resources to the measured and indicated categories with the objective of having sufficient ore to sustain a mining operation for 20 years. This drill work is scheduled to be completed by April 2011 and the results will be incorporated into final pit design(s) and mine scheduling.
Arcadis Geotecnica, White Mountain’s environmental consultant, has been contracted to complete a baseline monitoring update over approximately half of the project’s land area in preparation for the commissioning of a full Environmental Impact Study (EIS). Arcadis’ field personnel will be updating work that was carried out in 2006. They will consider the environmental impact of the proposed mining operation on indigenous flora and fauna and local communities. In addition and as part of their mandate, Arcadis will work with Company personnel to plan and implement the necessary project permitting process, including legal requirements for final site remediation.
The Company has commenced discussions with the surface rights holder to the Cerro Blanco project to establish a mutually acceptable access corridor to the mine site. In addition to road traffic, it is envisaged that this corridor would also be used to bring line power and process water to site.
On December 21, we announced that we had signed a contract with SGS Lakefield (“SGS”) to conduct a further process development program for the recovery of high purity sodium feldspar concentrate from the Cerro Blanco Project. The objective of this program is to refine and optimize the sodium feldspar process flowsheet and to enhance overall concentrate specifications. Working on a feedstock derived from the tailings stream of earlier rutile pilot plant testwork, SGS will examine the selective use of flotation activators and collectors and the effect of varying process conditions on the recovery of a high purity, sodium feldspar concentrate to a specification suitable for use in glass and ceramics applications. From a metallurgical perspective, findings from this process development program will add to the considerable body of Project information that already exists concerning the recovery of co-product feldspar. From a commercial point of view, samples of the resultant concentrate will be made available to several international industrial mineral companies who have expressed a possible interest in purchasing sodium feldspar concentrate produced from the Project.
We now have a considerable body of engineering design and process engineering work completed, both by us and previous owners, for the development of a large open pit mine and milling operation. We believe a feasibility study could be completed by December, 2011. We estimate the cost to take the project to the point of completing a final engineering feasibility study at approximately $2.76 million, including general and administrative and marketing expenses.
Also, as an exploration stage company, our work is highly speculative and involves unique and greater risks than are generally associated with other businesses. We cannot know if our mining concessions contain commercially viable ore bodies or reserves until additional exploration work is done and an evaluation based on such work concludes that development of and production from the ore body is technically, economically, and legally feasible.
If we proceed to development of a mining operation, our mining activities could be subject to substantial operating risks and hazards, including environmental hazards, industrial accidents, labor disputes, encountering unusual or unexpected geologic formations or other geological or grade problems, encountering unanticipated ground or water conditions, pit-wall failures, flooding, rock falls, periodic interruptions due to inclement weather conditions or other unfavorable operating conditions and other acts of God. Some of these risks and hazards are not insurable or may be subject to exclusion or limitation in any coverage which we obtain or may not be insured due to economic considerations.
Metric Conversion Table
For ease of reference, the following conversion factors are provided:
ITEM 3.