ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
Cerro Blanco Property
Through our Chilean subsidiary, Sociedad Contractual Minera White Mountain Titanium, we are progressing in various stages of development on our Cerro Blanco project, which is our principal project. We have identified nine natural rutile prospects designated as the Las Carolinas, La Cantera, Eli, Chascones, Hororio’s Creek, Hippo Ear, Quartz Creek, Algodon and Bono prospects. The last five of these have only recently been located. We presently hold 41 registered mining exploitation concessions and 33 exploration concessions over an area of approximately 17,041 hectares. We are in the preparation stage for a feasibility study to determine whether the concessions contain commercially viable ore reserves. If we are successful in obtaining a feasibility study which supports commercially viable ore reserves, we intend to exploit the concessions and to produce titanium dioxide concentrate through conventional open pit mining and minerals processing.
In 2013 we also located six registered exploration concessions, covering approximately 1,288 hectares, known as the La Martina property. We have not allocated sufficient resources to this property to conduct significant exploration activities and do not consider the property material at present because of the lack of information available on the mineralization of the property, but we plan to commence exploration activities on this property as funds become available.
Glossary of Terms
Certain terms used in this section are defined in the following glossary:
ALKALIC DIORITE-GABBRO-PYROXENITE INTRUSIVE: a potassium and sodium rich, coarse grained and possibly dark colored igneous rock with associated magnesium and iron that consolidated from magma beneath the earth's surface.
DEVELOPMENT: work carried out for the purpose of opening up a mineral deposit and making the actual extraction possible.
DISSEMINATED: fine particles of mineral dispensed through the enclosing rock.
EXPLOITATION MINING CONCESSIONS: licensed claims where the holder has the right to permit, develop, and operate a mine.
EXPLORATION: work involved in searching for ore by geological mapping, geochemistry, geophysics, drilling and other methods.
GRADE: mineral or metal content per unit of rock or concentrate or expression of relative quality e.g. high or low grade.
INTRUSIVE: a volume of igneous rock that was injected, while still molten, and crystallized within the earth’s crust.
MINERALIZATION: the concentration of metals and their compounds in rocks, and the processes involved therein.
ORE: material that can be economically mined from an ore body and processed.
RECLAMATION: the restoration of a site after exploration activity or mining is completed.
RUTILE: a mineral, titanium dioxide (TiO2), trimorpheus with anatase and brookite.
TiO2: Titanium dioxide. The form of titanium found in the mineral rutile.
TITANIUM: a widely distributed dark grey metallic element, (Ti), found in small quantities in many minerals. The mineral ilmenite, (FeTiO3), is currently the principal feedstock for the production of titanium dioxide (TiO2) powder and titanium metal.
Location and Access
The Cerro Blanco property is located approximately 39 kilometers, or approximately 24 miles, west of the city of Vallenar in the Atacama geographic region (Region III) of northern Chile and southwest of the Cerro Rodeo Mining District. Access to the property is as follows: The main Ruta 5, the Pan American Highway, runs north from Santiago for approximately 665 kilometers to Vallenar; from there a paved road runs west toward the Port of Huasco for a distance of 22 kilometers to the village of Nicolasa; at Nicolasa a municipally maintained dirt road runs approximately 10 kilometers southwest to the property. Management believes access to the property is adequate to accommodate the type of vehicles and traffic during the exploration stage on the property. Improvements to the dirt road will be required for the development and production stages. These improvements will include widening of the road and topping it with gravel. Management believes adequate supplies of bedrock and gravel are available for this purpose, although it currently has no arrangements or agreements to provide either the improvement services or supplies. The area is served by a regional airport at Vallenar.
Cerro Blanco lies within an established mining district where management believes experienced mineworkers and support personnel are available. Labor rates in the region are considerably less costly when compared with standard North American rates. Mining is one of the main sectors of the Chilean economy and Region III has a broad base of mining contractors and suppliers of both new and used mining and processing equipment.
The local climate is generally arid with little rainfall in normal years. Vegetation is minimal, supporting only desert scrub and sparse cactus. Topography consists of low hills with a mean elevation of 100 meters, which are incised periodically by active creeks. The Huasco River, 15 kilometers, approximately 9 miles, to the north, is a source of water. Additionally, high-tension power lines pass 15 kilometers, approximately 9 miles, to the north of the property along the Vallenar-Huasco highway.
In addition to road transport links, power and water access, a port facility with a capacity to handle 70,000 ton ships is accessible at Huasco, which is 30 kilometers, approximately 19 miles, northwest of the property. The property also lies close to a fully operational rail track. If necessary, a spur line could be run into the property linking it directly to the port.
Title Status and Exploration Rights
Under the Chilean mining code, surveyed mineral concessions can be held in perpetuity subject only to an annual tax based on the land held. We have converted 33 of our existing exploration licenses into exploitation licenses. The tax payments for March 2011, 2012 and 2013 were $84,901, $107,159, and $107,275, respectively, at the prevailing exchange rate. We anticipate that the tax payment for 2014 will be about the same as that of 2013.
The Chilean mining code does not convey surface rights to owners of the mining concessions. However, the owners of mining concessions are entitled to the establishment of the necessary easements for mining exploration and exploitation. The surface lands are subject to the burden of being occupied, to the extent required by mining operations, by ore yards and dumps, slag and tailings, ore extraction and benefaction plants, electric substations and communications lines, canals, reservoirs, piping, housing, construction and supplementary works, and to the encumbrance of transit and of being occupied by roads, railways, piping, tunnels, inclined planes, cableways, conveyor belts and all other means used to connect the operations of the concession with public roads, benefaction facilities, railroad stations, shipping ports, and consumer centers. The establishment of these easements, the exercise thereof, and the compensation therefore, are to be agreed upon either between the concession owner and the surface owner, or are established by court decision under a special brief procedure contemplated by the law.
The majority of the surface rights for the Cerro Blanco project are owned by Agrosuper, a large Chilean agricultural concern. In 2010, the Company commenced discussions with Agrosuper to establish a mutually acceptable access corridor to the mine site. In addition to road traffic, it was envisaged that this corridor would also be used to bring line power and process water to site. Upon completion of the final feasibility study, we intend to continue to advance discussions with Agrosuper to acquire the surface rights either through negotiation or through the courts. This is an ongoing progress. Nevertheless, should this alternative fail, we will proceed to seek the easement through the court, which under Chilean mining law we have the right to obtain. We do not anticipate any material difficulty with surface rights on the Cerro Blanco property.
Geology and Mineralization
Management believes the Cerro Blanco property contains a large and possibly unique type of titanium mineralization. Nevertheless, we are still in the exploration stage of development and there are no known reserves on the property. The titaniferous mineral located on the property is clean red-brown and black rutile which occurs disseminated with the tonalitic suite of an alkalic diorite-gabbro-pyroxenite intrusive. Its uniformly disseminated nature and associated alteration endow it with strong similarities to porphyry copper deposits. Natural rutile concentrates are the preferred feed stock for both titanium metal and titanium dioxide pigment.
Exploration History
In 1990 - 1991, the western half of the property, then referred to as Barranca Negra, was held under option by Adonos Resources of Toronto, Canada, who conducted extensive rock sampling, geological mapping and 450 meters of trenching.
In 1992, the property was optioned by Phelps Dodge, to which they applied the name Freirina. In late 1992 and early 1993, 1,200 meters of diamond and 6,000 meters of reverse circulation drilling were completed, principally in the most westerly Cerro Blanco anomaly. In 1993, two 15 tonne bulk samples were taken for metallurgical testing. A gravity concentrate was produced from a 15 tonne sample of this material by Lakefield Research in Santiago. Fifty kilograms of this concentrate were shipped to Carpco Inc. in Florida for further gravity circuit up-grading followed by dry-milling using magnetic and electrostatic separation techniques.
In 1999, Dorado Mineral Resources N.L. purchased the property and re-named the property Celtic. In February 2000, a preliminary processing test carried out by RMG Services Pty. Ltd., Adelaide, Australia, on behalf of Dorado, used combined microwave leaching and flotation in the up-grading of Celtic (Freirina) gravity concentrate. In June 2000, a review and summary of prior exploration programs and results was conducted by an independent geological consultant on behalf of Dorado Mineral Resources N.L. A cross-sectional estimation of the resource potential of the Cerro Blanco deposit based on the prior drilling and surface sampling was completed as part of this study. Later the same month a scoping study based on level plans produced for the area of highest density drilling was undertaken on behalf of Dorado Recursos Minerales Chile S.A. by Tecniterrae Limitada, a Santiago based group of consulting mining engineers. In 2000, a further study was commissioned by Dorado Recursos Minerales Chile S.A. to supervise the collection of a second bulk sample of 25 tonnes for metallurgical testing. Also during this program the Cerro Blanco area was geologically re-mapped.
In August 2001, ownership of the property was transferred to Kinrade Resources Limited. Subsequent to these events, Kinrade defaulted on its obligations and was unable to meet the payment schedules as required under contract.
In the fall of 2003, ownership of the property passed to Sociedad Contractual Minera White Mountain Titanium, formerly known as Compañía Minera Rutile Resources Limitada, the wholly owned subsidiary of White Mountain Titanium Corporation. The purchase was completed in September 2005.
In 2006, we undertook two drill programs on the Las Carolinas prospect. The first was designed to test ore variability and provided 15 different composites which were subjected to metallurgical testing. The second consisted of a 16-hole, 2,900- meter infill and step out drill program designed to increase resources in the central portion of the main zone as well as to test new target areas to the south and south-west. Core recoveries in excess of 95% were achieved in the majority of holes drilled. Split core samples were sent out for metallurgical testing and grade variability studies. Whole-core geotechnical testing was carried out in respect of rock mechanics for mine planning purposes.
Planning and execution of the both drill programs was closely linked to previous metallurgical test work. The principal focus was to target titanium resources which would yield a high grade TiO2 concentrate from conventional flotation. After an extensive evaluation of historic data, our contract geologists devised an ore ranking system, MR1 (“Mine Rank 1”) through to MR4, with ranks MR1 and MR2 producing the best, and most commercially acceptable chemical product specifications. Both historic drill data and data from these two drilling campaigns was input into a geological model. This geologic model, together with other datum such as metallurgical test work, ore ranking and rock mechanics, then formed the basis of an integrated resource model.
During 2007, the Company’s geological team undertook and extensive geochemical sampling program to the south and southwest, principally focused on the Eli prospect. Working on a 25 by 25 meter grid, the team took nearly 700 samples of outcrop material over an area of 1,100 meters by 900 meters. These were sent for chemical assay.
Samples showed mineralization with TiO2 grades in the range 1.0%to 3.0%; two samples from high grade vein material reported results in excess of 21% TiO2 and 25% TiO2, respectively. The Company followed up by building a 12 kilometer, 5 meter wide access road to and around Eli. Drill pads were constructed on 50 meter centers adjacent to the road grid covering the prospect. An initial drill program involving two diamond drill rigs commenced in late April, 2008 and ran through June. Approximately 4,000 meters of drilling was completed and the results indicated that the Eli prospect has the potential for high TiO2 grades, geologically it is more complex than either Las Carolinas or La Cantera.
In January 2008, the Company retained a consultant as a qualified person under Canadian National Instrument 43-101 to prepare a NI 43-101 compliant technical report on the Cerro Blanco property (the “Technical Report”). The Technical Report, which was dated February 25, 2008 and was based on extensive geological mapping, surface sampling, 14,078 meters of drilling and a geological model developed by the Company, is filed on SEDAR.
In 2010, the Company’s geological staff oversaw the construction of access roads and drill pads such that a program comprised of approximately 50 diamond drill holes totaling 7,500 meters can be undertaken. This drilling, typically to an average depth of 150 meters, was designed to reclassify more of the established geologic resources to the measured and indicated categories. This drilling was completed in 2011.
We are currently preparing for a drill program at Las Carolinas and La Cantera of approximately 5,200 meters which forms part of the budget to take the project to Final Feasibility. All access roads and drill pads have already been constructed for this program.
Engineering History
Following completion of the 2008 NI 43-101 Technical Report, the Company retained the consultant to compile a NI 43-101 compliant preliminary assessment of the Cerro Blanco project (the “Assessment”). The Assessment, which was dated May 30, 2008 and incorporated by reference the 2008 Technical Report as well as reports prepared for the Company by other independent experts in their fields, is filed on SEDAR. The latter reports include preliminary process plant engineering and costing report prepared by AMEC-Cade Idepe dated March, 2008, a preliminary pit design report prepared by NCL Ingenieria y Construccion dated May 2008, various metallurgical reports prepared by SGS Lakefield, an environmental base line study prepared by Arcadis Geotecnica dated December 2004 and titanium marketing information provided by David Rochester, the Company’s marketing consultant.
For engineering design purposes, the Assessment adopted a base case set of assumptions, the major assumptions being the construction of an open pit mine, processing plant and ancillary facilities capable of producing 100,000 tonnes per year of high grade rutile concentrate grading plus 94.5% TiO2 at start up, scaling to 130,000 tonnes peryear in production Year 4 at an assumed undiluted head grade to the plant of 2.3%TiO2. Mining would commence on the Las Carolinas prospect and feed would be conveyed downhill to a processing plant located less than two kilometers to the northeast. Within the plant, the process flow sheet consisted of a semi-autogenous grinding mill, gravity pre-concentration and column flotation circuits and high intensity magnetic separation with process water sourced from a desalination plant constructed at the port of Huasco.
Based on these assumptions AMEC-Cade Idepe designed a processing plant with an initial operating capacity of approximately 5.1 million tonnes per year, increasing to approximately 6.1 million tonnes per year by Year 4. They estimated a cost to construct the plant and ancillary facilities of US$117 million in direct costs and US$42 million in indirect costs, for a total of US$159 million. To this figure, and as this was a preliminary study, AMEC-Cade Idepe added a 20% contingency to arrive at a total estimated cost of US$190 million. With respect to processing plant operating costs, AMEC-Cade Idepe estimated site and transportation costs to port of US$3.60 per tonne processed (US$184 per tonne of rutile concentrate) in Year 1, dropping to US$3.50 per tonne processed (US$180 per tonne of rutile concentrate) in Year 4. The anticipated reduction in operating costs is attributed to increased volumes as well as increased efficiencies from the gravity pre-concentration circuit. Electric power consumption was the highest single cost item, comprising approximately 31% of the total estimated unit operating costs. AMEC-Cade Idepe recommended that the Company proceed to the pilot stage and investigate two possibilities for reducing capital costs: the use of sea water rather than desalinated water in the processing plant and sitting the plant elsewhere on the property to lower the installed cost of the conveyor. Two alternate sites were identified.
With respect to mining, mining costs would be in addition to the processing plant operating costs estimates set out above. A preliminary mine plan will be prepared once further drilling has been completed. At present, NCL have modeled preliminary optimized pits for only the central zone of the Las Carolinas prospect on the assumption that this could be the initial pit area. The pits were modeled using 10 x 10 x 10 meter blocks and base case pit wall angles of 45 degrees, with sensitivities run at 50 degrees. Whilst the objective of our mapping, surface sampling and drilling programs is to both increase the quantity and classification of TiO2 resources on the Cerro Blanco property, the project is at an exploration stage and there is no guarantee of future exploration success or of economic viability. For these reasons, project cash flow estimates are not included in the Assessment.
The Assessment concluded that results from the considerable body of work completed on the project to date support our recommended, phased work programs and that the estimated costs for the work programs were reasonable and adequate to the present stage of the project. The overall objective of our work programs is to complete an independent final feasibility study which supports the construction of a natural rutile, TiO2 mining operation on the property.
In December 2009, we announced completion of a detailed Stage 2 pilot plant test work program culminating in one 60 hour continuous test run. The primary objective of the Stage 2 pilot plant test work was to produce a natural rutile, titanium dioxide concentrate meeting the chemical and particulate specifications of titanium pigment and sponge metal producers. The test work was conducted on a 275 tonne bulk sample representative of currently identified, at and near surface natural rutile mineralization sourced from the Las Carolinas prospect at our Cerro Blanco project. The bulk sample, which was taken from an area of the Las Carolinas prospect which could be chosen to provide initial mine feed to a full scale process plant, assayed 2.9% TiO2.
Following crushing to minus ½ inch, mill underflow was fed to a gravity pre-concentration circuit which consisted of a fine fraction recovery cyclone as well as middlings and coarse fraction mechanical vibrating tables. The mechanical vibrating tables concentrated the higher specific gravity, natural rutile while rejecting some 50% by volume of the lower specific gravity feed material. The result of gravity pre-concentration was to upgrade the natural rutile being processed from an initial grade of 2.9% TiO2 to a grade of approximately 5.0% TiO2. Upgradedmaterial from the gravity pre-concentration circuit was fed to a conditioning tank for pH adjustment and from there to a conventional flotation circuit for further recovery, concentration and cleaning. Flotation feed from the conditioning tank was passed to rougher, scavenger and 5 cleaning flotation stages, where the majority of the natural rutile was recovered and concentrated. An acid pH in the flotation circuit between 3.5 and 4.75 was maintained in the flotation circuit. Tailings from the flotation circuit could form the feed source for a feldspar recovery circuit.
Following the final flotation cleaning stage, the natural rutile, titanium dioxide concentrate was fed to a high intensity magnetic separator to remove magnetic and para-magnetic minerals. Magnetic separation resulted in two concentrate products: a high grade natural rutile, titanium dioxide concentrate and a magnetic and para-magnetic minerals by-product concentrate.
The following table provides a chemical analysis of the final product from the 60 hour test run for both + and -75 micron fractions after magnetic separation:
Magnetic Separation Results from the Concentrate
produced during Continuous Operation - Non-magnetics
Following completion of the Stage 2 pilot plant test work, we conducted further optimization test work on the rutile process flow sheet, specifically the use of spirals and Knelson concentrators in the gravity pre-concentration circuit and the use of sea water as the aqueous medium in the flotation circuit. In January 2010 we released results from this optimization test work which stated that spirals were a viable alternative to mechanical vibrating tables in the pre-concentration circuit and that comparable concentrate grades and recoveries were obtained using sea water versus fresh water as the aqueous medium in the flotation circuit.
Also in January 2010, we reported that we had successfully completed a locked cycle, flotation test work program to recover feldspar from natural rutile flotation tailings.
All test work was carried out in an acidic environment (pH 3.5 to 5.5) - very similar to pH conditions previously used in the flotation of rutile. Management believes this is an important achievement as it obviates the need to undertake major pH adjustment from the rutile to the feldspar flotation circuit. A sodium feldspar concentrate assaying 9.07% Na2O and 0.37% Fe2O3 was produced using fresh water as the aqueous medium and minimal addition of flotation reagents. As with the natural rutile, titanium dioxide concentrate results achieved in the optimization test work, comparable sodium feldspar concentrate grades were obtained using sea water versus fresh water as the aqueous medium.
On December 21, 2010, we announced that we had signed a contract with SGS Lakefield (“SGS”) to conduct a further process development program for the recovery of high purity sodium feldspar concentrate from the Cerro Blanco project. The objective of this program was to refine and optimize the sodium feldspar process flow sheet and to enhance overall concentrate specifications. Working on a feedstock derived from the tailings stream of earlier rutile pilot plant test work, SGS was to examine the selective use of flotation activators and collectors and the effect of varying process conditions on the recovery of a high purity, sodium feldspar concentrate to a specification suitable for use in glass and ceramics applications. From a metallurgical perspective, findings from this process development program would add to the considerable body of project information that already exists concerning the recovery of co-product feldspar. From a commercial point of view, samples of the resultant concentrate would be made available to several international industrial mineral companies who have expressed a possible interest in purchasing sodium feldspar concentrate produced from the project.
Environmental, Surface Rights and Infrastructure History
In 2005 - 2006, Arcadis Geotecnica conducted an environmental base line study over the Las Carolinas and La Cantera prospects. Based on field information gathered, vegetation in the area was comprised mostly of bushes, cactus and plants characteristically found in desert regions and areas of sandy and stony soils. Whilst no native animals were observed, animals potentially living in the area would include foxes, rodents, pumas, guanacos, rabbits and reptiles. The study stated that a mining operation as contemplated would have no significant impact on land vertebrates but care would need to be exercised on the northern slopes favored by reptiles. Six underground springs were identified, several with only seasonal flow. As well six houses were observed extending from the project north towards Vallenar, three of which are occupied on a permanent basis. Conversations with the inhabitants suggested that they would have a positive view of the project due to the economic and social benefits it would bring. Arcadis Geotecnica recommended an intensive follow up survey of one ravine for possible archaeological relics and identified two areas for the possible stockpiling of waste rock. We retained Arcadis Geotechnica to complete the recommended follow up survey and no archaeological relics were found.
In 2010, Arcadis Geotecnica was contracted to complete a baseline monitoring update over approximately half of the project’s land area in preparation for the commissioning of an EIS. Arcadis’ scope of work was to update field work carried out in 2005 - 2006 and to consider the environmental impact of the proposed mining operation on indigenous flora and fauna and local communities. In addition, Arcadis was to work with Company personnel to plan and implement the necessary project permitting process, including legal requirements, for final site remediation.
In February 2013, the Company completed and submitted the EIS to the Chilean Environmental Authority. In July 2013 we received 550 comments on our submission. We are working with the authorities to address three main issues involving confirmation that there is no ground water to be adversely affected by our operations, that there would be no adverse impact associated with the construction of the desalination plant, and that we would produce no undue dust pollution.
Metric Conversion Table
For ease of reference, the following conversion factors are provided:
ITEM 3.