ITEM 2. DESCRIPTION OF PROPERTY
Location and Access
The Cerro Blanco property is located approximately 39 kilometers, or approximately 24 miles, west of the city of Vallenar in the Atacama geographic region (Region III) of northern Chile and southwest of the Cerro Rodeo Mining District. Access to the property is as follows: The main Ruta 5, the PanAmerican Highway, runs north from Santiago for approximately 625 kilometers to Vallenar; from there a paved road runs west toward the Port of Huasco for a distance of 22 kilometers to the village of Nicolasa; at Nicolasa a municipally maintained dirt road runs approximately 14 kilometers southwest to the property. Management believes access to the property is adequate to accommodate the type of vehicles and traffic during the exploration stage on the property. Improvements to the dirt road will be required for the development and production stages. These improvements will include widening of the road and topping it with gravel. Management believes adequate supplies of bedrock and gravel are available for this purpose, although it currently has no arrangements or agreements to provide either the improvement services or supplies. The area is served by a regional airport at Vallenar.
Cerro Blanco lies within an established mining district where management believes experienced mineworkers and support personnel are available. Labor rates in the region are considerably less costly when compared with standard North American rates. Mining is one of the main sectors of the Chilean economy and Region III has a broad base of mining contractors and suppliers of both new and used mining and processing equipment.
The local climate is generally arid with little rainfall in normal years. Vegetation is minimal, supporting only desert scrub and sparse cactus. Topography consists of low hills with a mean elevation of 100 meters, which are incised periodically by active creeks. The Huasco River, 15 kilometers, approximately 9 miles, to the north, is a source of water. Additionally, high-tension power lines pass 15 kilometers, approximately 9 miles, to the north of the property along the Vallenar-Huasco highway.
In addition to road transport links, power and water access, a port facility with a capacity to handle 70,000 ton ships is accessible at Huasco, which is 30 kilometers, approximately 19 miles, northwest of the property. The property also lies close to a fully operational rail track. If necessary, a spur line could be run into the property linking it directly to the port.
Title Status and Exploration Rights
Under the Chilean mining code, surveyed mineral concessions can be held in perpetuity subject only to an annual tax based on the land held. We have converted our existing exploration licenses into thirty-three exploitation licenses. The tax payment for March 2007 was approximately $50,000 based upon the status of the mining concessions and the currency exchange rate at that time. The payment for March 2008 was $55,000 at the prevailing exchange rate.
The Chilean mining code does not convey surface rights to owners of the mining concessions. However, the owners of mining concessions are entitled to the establishment of the necessary easements for mining exploration and exploitation. The surface lands are subject to the burden of being occupied, to the extent required by mining operations, by ore yards and dumps, slag and tailings, ore extraction and benefaction plants, electric substations and communications lines, canals, reservoirs, piping, housing, construction and supplementary works, and to the encumbrance of transit and of being occupied by roads, railways, piping, tunnels, inclined planes, cableways, conveyor belts and all other means used to connect the operations of the concession with public roads, benefaction facilities, railroad stations, shipping ports, and consumer centers. The establishment of these easements, the exercise thereof, and the compensation therefore, are to be agreed upon either between the concession owner and the surface owner, or are established by court decision under a special brief procedure contemplated by the law.
The surface rights are owned by Agrosuper, a large Chilean agricultural concern, and we are negotiating with the attorney who represents the company to either sell outright the surface rights to us or negotiate an easement and right of way with us. This is an ongoing progress. Nevertheless, should this alternative fail, we will proceed to seek the easement through the court, which under Chilean mining law we have the right to obtain. We do not anticipate any material difficulty with surface rights on the Cerro Blanco property..
Exploration History
In 1990-1991 the western half of the property, then referred to a as Barranca Negra, was held under option by Adonos Resources of Toronto, Canada, who conducted extensive rock sampling, geological mapping and 450 meters of trenching. In 1992 the property was optioned by Phelps Dodge, to which they applied the name Freirina. In late 1992 and early 1993, 1,200 meters of diamond and 6,000 meters of reverse circulation drilling were completed, principally in the most westerly Cerro Blanco anomaly. In 1993 two 15 ton bulk samples were taken for metallurgical testing. A gravity concentrate was produced from a 15 ton sample of this material by Lakefield Research in Santiago. Fifty kilos of this concentrate were shipped to Carpco Inc. in Florida for further gravity circuit up-grading followed by dry-milling using magnetic and electrostatic separation techniques.
In 1999 Dorado Mineral Resources N.L. purchased the property and re-named the property Celtic. In February 2000, a preliminary processing test carried out by RMG Services Pty. Ltd., Adelaide, Australia, on behalf of Dorado, used combined microwave leaching and flotation in the up-grading of Celtic (Freirina) gravity concentrate. In June 2000 a review and summary of prior exploration programs and results was conducted by an independent geological consultant on behalf of Dorado Mineral Resources N.L. A cross-sectional estimation of the resource potential of the Cerro Blanco deposit based on the prior drilling and surface sampling was completed as part of this study. Later the same month a scoping study based on level plans produced for the area of highest density drilling was undertaken on behalf of Dorado Recursos Minerales Chile S.A. by Tecniterrae Limitada, a Santiago based group of consulting mining engineers.
In November and December 2000 a further study was commissioned by Dorado Recursos Minerales Chile S.A. to supervise the collection of a second bulk sample of 25 tons for metallurgical testing. Also during this program the Cerro Blanco area was geologically re-mapped. In August 2001, ownership of the property was transferred to Kinrade Resources Limited. Subsequent to these events, Kinrade defaulted on its obligations and was unable to meet the payment schedules as required under contract. In the fall of 2003 ownership of the property passed to Compañía Minera Rutile Resources Limitada, the wholly owned subsidiary of White Mountain Titanium Corporation. The purchase was completed in September 2005.
Geology and Mineralization
Management believes the Cerro Blanco property contains a large and possibly unique type of titanium mineralization. Nevertheless, we are still in the exploration stage of development and there are no known reserves on the property. The titaniferous mineral located on the property is clean red-brown and black rutile which occurs disseminated with the tonalitic suite of an alkalic diorite-gabbro-pyroxenite intrusive. Its uniformly disseminated nature and associated alteration endow it with strong similarities to porphyry copper deposits. Natural rutile concentrates such as found on this property would be the preferred feed stock for both titanium metal and pigment grade titanium dioxide production.
Exploration Plans
During 2006, we undertook two separate drilling campaigns. The first was designed to test ore variability, and provided 15 different composites which were subjected to metallurgical testing. The second campaign, which commenced in October 2006, centered on an exploration program consisting mainly of infill and step out drilling, grade variability studies and regional reconnaissance in search of possible extensions to the mineralization and geologic modelling. On January 24, 2007, we announced that we had completed a 16-hole diamond drilling campaign, totaling over 2,900 meters at Cerro Blanco. The principal objectives of this campaign were to increase resources in the central portion of the main zone as well as to test new target areas to the south and south-west. Core recoveries in excess of 95% were achieved in the majority of holes drilled. Split core samples were sent in for on-going metallurgical testing, and whole-core geotechnical testing has been carried out in respect of rock mechanics for mine planning purposes.
Planning and execution of the drilling campaign was closely linked to previous metallurgical test work. The principal focus was to target titanium resources which would yield a high grade TiO2 concentrate from conventional flotation. After an extensive evaluation of historic data, our contract geologists devised and are now utilizing an ore ranking system, MR1 (“Mine Rank 1”) through to MR4, with ranks MR1 and MR2 producing the best, and most commercially acceptable chemical product specifications. Data from the latest drilling campaign was input into a geological model and this model, together with ongoing technical work, will be integrated into a resource model.
Titanium mineralization starts at surface and extends over long intercepts with both attributes offering the potential for low mining costs. We believe we have good results in the central portion of the main zone of Cerro Blanco, as well as significant potential for further resource development to the south and south-west areas of the property.
During 2007, the Company’s geological team undertook and extensive geochemical sampling program at the Eli prospect. Working on a 25 by 25 meter grid, the team took nearly 700 samples of outcrop material over an area of 1100 meters by 900 meters. These were sent for chemical assay. Samples showed mineralization with TiO2 grades in the range 1.0% to 3.0%; two samples from high grade vein material reported results in excess of 21% TiO2 and 25% TiO2, respectively.
In early 2008 the Company built a 12 kilometer, 5 meter wide access road to and around Eli. Drill pads were constructed on 50 meter centers adjacent to the road grid covering the prospect. An initial drill program, which involved two diamond drill rigs, commenced in late April and ran through June. Approximately 4,000 meters of drilling was completed. The Company is awaiting final analyses and a compilation report on the program.
In January, 2008 the Company retained Thomas A. Henricksen, PhD. and a qualified person under Canadian National Instrument 43-101 to prepare a NI 43-101 compliant technical report on the Cerro Blanco property (the “Technical Report”). The Technical Report, which was dated February 25, 2008, was based on extensive geological mapping, surface sampling, 14,078 meters of drilling and a geological model developed by the Company. In his report, Dr. Henricksen confirmed a current estimate of rutile resources under CIM classifications at the Las Carolinas and La Cantera prospects of measured and indicated resources of 32.9 million tonnes grading 2.23% TiO2.
Following completion of the Technical Report, the Company retained Dr. Henricksen to compile a NI 43-101 compliant preliminary assessment of the Cerro Blanco project (the “Assessment”). The Assessment, which was dated May 30, 2008, incorporated by reference the Technical Report as well as reports prepared for the Company by other independent experts in their fields. The latter reports include preliminary process engineering and costing report prepared by AMEC-Cade dated March, 2008, a preliminary pit design report prepared by NCL Ingenieria y Construccion dated May 2008, various metallurgical reports prepared by SGS Lakefield, an environmental base line study prepared by Arcadis Geotecnica dated December 2004 and titanium marketing information provided by the Company’s marketing consultant.
For engineering design purposes, the Assessment adopted a base case set of assumptions, the major assumptions being the construction of an open pit mine, processing plant and ancillary facilities capable of producing 100,000 tonnes per year of high grade rutile concentrate grading plus 94.5% TiO2 at start up, scaling to 130,000 tonnes per year in production Year 4 at an assumed undiluted head grade to the plant of 2.3% TiO2. Mining would commence on the Las Carolinas prospect and feed would be conveyed downhill to a processing plant located less than two kilometers to the northeast. Within the plant, the process flow sheet consisted of a semi-autogenous grinding mill, gravity pre-concentration and column flotation circuits and high intensity magnetic separation with process water sourced from a desalination plant constructed at the port of Huasco. AMEC-Cade assumed that mining would be done under contract at a cost of US$1.20 per tonne mined and that the price of high grade rutile concentrates would be US$500 per tonne FOB port.
Based on these assumptions AMEC-Cade, our internationally recognized engineering contractor, designed a processing plant with an initial operating capacity of approximately 5.1 million tonnes per year, increasing to approximately 6.1 million tonnes per year by Year 4. They estimated a cost to construct the plant and ancillary facilities of US$117 million in direct costs and US$42 million in indirect costs, for a total of US$159 million. To this figure, and as this was a preliminary study, AMEC-Cade added a 20% contingency to arrive at a total estimated cost of US$190 million. With respect to processing plant operating costs, AMEC-Cade estimated site and transportation costs to port of US$3.60 per tonne processed (US$184 per tonne of rutile concentrate) in Year 1, dropping to US$3.50 per tonne processed (US$180 per tonne of rutile concentrate) in Year 4. The anticipated reduction in operating costs is attributed to increased volumes as well as increased efficiencies from the gravity pre-concentration circuit. Electric power consumption was the highest single cost item, comprising approximately 31% of the total estimated unit operating costs. AMEC-Cade recommended that the Company proceed to the pilot stage and investigate two possibilities for reducing capital costs: the use of sea water rather than desalinated water in the processing plant and siting the plant elsewhere on the property to lower the installed cost of the conveyor. Two alternate sites were identified.
With respect to mining, mining costs would be in addition to the processing plant operating costs estimates set out above. A preliminary mine plan will be prepared once further drilling has been completed. At present NCL have modeled preliminary optimized pits for only the Central Zone of the Las Carolinas prospect on the assumption that this could be the initial pit area. The pits were modeled using 10 x 10 x 10 meter blocks and base case pit wall angles of 45 degrees, with sensitivities run at 50 degrees. Incorporating 45 degree wall angles and in pit measured, indicated and inferred resources, the derived strip ratio was 1.13 to 1.00, waste to mineralized resources at a grade of approximately 2.2% TiO2. Increasing the wall angle to 50 degrees reduced the derived strip ratio to 0.96 to 1.00, waste to mineralized resources at the same grade. For clarification, under NI 43-101 policy, inferred resources must be upgraded to a measured and indicated classification before they can be included in an economic assessment. Whilst the objective of the Company’s mapping, surface sampling and drilling programs is to both increase the quantity and classification of TiO2 resources on the Cerro Blanco property, the project is at an exploration stage and there is no guarantee of future exploration success or of economic viability. For these reasons, project cash flow estimates are not included in the Assessment.
Arcadis Geotecnica conducted an environmental base line study in 2005 -2006 over the Las Carolinas and La Cantera prospects. Based on field information gathered, vegetation in the area was comprised mostly of bushes, cactus and plants characteristically found in desert regions and areas of sandy and stony soils. Whilst no native animals were observed, animals potentially living in the area would include foxes, rodents, pumas, guanacos, rabbits and reptiles. The study stated that a mining operation as contemplated would have no significant impact on land vertebrates but care would need to be exercised on the northern slopes favored by reptiles. Six underground springs were identified, several with only seasonal flow. As well six houses were observed extending from the project north towards Vallenar, three of which are occupied on a permanent basis. Conversations with the inhabitants suggested that they would have a positive view of the project due to the economic and social benefits it would bring. Arcadis Geotecnica recommended an intensive follow up survey of one ravine for possible archaeological relics and indentified two areas for the possible stockpiling of waste rock. The Company retained Arcadis Geotechnica to complete the recommended follow up survey and no archaeological relics were found.
The Assessment concluded that results from the considerable body of work completed on the project to date support the Company’s recommended, phased work programs and that the estimated costs for the work programs were reasonable and adequate to the present stage of the project. The overall objective of the Company’s work programs is to complete an independent final feasibility study which supports the construction of a natural rutile, TiO2 mining operation on the property.
We now have a considerable body of engineering design and process engineering work completed, both by us and previous owners, for the development of a large open pit mine and milling operation. The extent to which this engineering work could be incorporated into a feasibility study will depend on factors such as optimal plant sizing and configuration based on product volumes and specifications set out in off-take contracts and process design, the latter to be determined by refinements coming out of this year’s planned metallurgical test work and pilot scale testing. With off-take contracts in hand, we would undertake a program of drilling to provide data for mine planning and design, for an environmental impact assessment and permitting program, and to commission a feasibility study. As some of these activities would be undertaken in tandem, we believe a feasibility study could be completed within twelve to fourteen months of us receiving off-take contracts, subject to the availability of funds, personnel and equipment. We estimate the cost to take the project to the point of commissioning a final engineering feasibility study at approximately $3,408,000. This figure includes a 20 per cent contingency but excludes general and administrative expenses. As of March 1, 2009, our cash position was approximately $1,171,000. We currently do not have sufficient capital to complete this plan and estimate that we will require additional financing to do so.
Also, as an exploration stage company, our work is highly speculative and involves unique and greater risks than are generally associated with other businesses. We cannot know if our mining concessions contain commercially viable ore bodies or reserves until additional exploration work is done and an evaluation based on such work concludes that development of and production from the ore body is technically, economically, and legally feasible.
If we proceed to development of a mining operation, our mining activities could be subject to substantial operating risks and hazards, including environmental hazards, industrial accidents, labor disputes, encountering unusual or unexpected geologic formations or other geological or grade problems, encountering unanticipated ground or water conditions, pit-wall failures, flooding, rock falls, periodic interruptions due to inclement weather conditions or other unfavorable operating conditions and other acts of God. Some of these risks and hazards are not insurable or may be subject to exclusion or limitation in any coverage which we obtain or may not be insured due to economic considerations.
Glossary of Terms
Certain terms used in this section are defined in the following glossary:
ALKALIC DIORITE-GABBRO-PYROXENITE INTRUSIVE: a potassium and sodium rich, coarse grained and possibly dark colored igneous rock with associated magnesium and iron that consolidated from magma beneath the earth's surface.
DEVELOPMENT: work carried out for the purpose of opening up a mineral deposit and making the actual extraction possible.
DISSEMINATED: fine particles of mineral dispensed through the enclosing rock.
EXPLOITATION MINING CONCESSIONS: licensed claims where the holder has the right to permit, develop, and operate a mine.
EXPLORATION: work involved in searching for ore by geological mapping, geochemistry, geophysics, drilling and other methods.
GRADE: mineral or metal content per unit of rock or concentrate or expression of relative quality e.g. high or low grade.
INTRUSIVE: a volume of igneous rock that was injected, while still molten, and crystallized within the earth’s crust.
MINERALIZATION: the concentration of metals and their compounds in rocks, and the processes involved therein.
ORE: material that can be economically mined from an ore body and processed.
RECLAMATION: the restoration of a site after exploration activity or mining is completed.
RUTILE: a mineral, titanium dioxide (TiO2), trimorpheus with anatase and brookite.
TiO2: Titanium dioxide. The form of titanium found in the mineral rutile.
TITANIUM: a widely distributed dark grey metallic element, (Ti), found in small quantities in many minerals. The mineral ilmenite, (FeTiO3), is currently the principal feedstock for the production of titanium dioxide (TiO2) powder and titanium metal.
Metric Conversion Table
For ease of reference, the following conversion factors are provided:
Metric Share
U.S. Measure
U.S. Measure
Metric Share
hectare
2.471 acres
acre
0.4047 hectares
meter
3.2881 feet
foot
0.3048 meters
kilometer
0.621 miles
mile
1.609 kilometers
tonne
1.102 short tons
short ton
0.907 tonnes
ITEM 3.