Item 2. Properties
Mississippi Frio-Wilcox Joint Venture
Location and Access
The Mississippi Frio-Wilcox Joint Venture is located on the border of southern Mississippi and Louisiana along the floodplain of the Mississippi river. The area is approximately 20 miles west of Woodville, Mississippi and approximately 50 miles northwest of Baton Rouge, Louisiana. The wells are located in Township 2 North, Ranges 4 & 5, in West Adams and Wilkinson Counties in the state of Mississippi. The area is accessible via Interstate 55 (approximately 100 miles south of Jackson, Mississippi) and then west via state highways. The drill locations are accessed by secondary gravel and dirt roads. Transporting natural gas to market will be accomplished via a series of pipelines which cross the project area.
Previous Operations and History
The Mississippi Frio-Wilcox Joint Venture is the successor to the Palmetto Point Project, a ten-well program in the same area. Griffin and Griffin Exploration, the operators for the Palmetto Point Project are also the operators for the Mississippi Frio-Wilcox Joint Venture. Griffin and Griffin Exploration has over 40 years of operations history in the Mississippi Frio-Wilcox Joint Venture area and has acquired substantial data and 3-D seismic for the Mississippi Frio-Wilcox Joint Venture. To date, Griffin and Griffin Exploration has drilled, owned or operated more than 100 Frio wells in the region.
Geology of the Project
The prospect wells are located to test the Frio Formation. Frio wells typically enjoy low finding costs. Griffin and Griffin Exploration has utilized seismic "bright spot" technology, which helps to identify gas reservoirs and to delineate reservoir geometry and limits. The term "bright spot" is used to describe a geophysical amplitude anomaly, which is simply a velocity change from a higher velocity to lower velocity. Sands that contain gas are predictable by this method because the gas will provide a slower velocity response giving an abnormally intense trough-peak reflections, therefore termed a "bright spot". The data evaluation in the Frio section gives a direct hydrocarbon indicator (HCI) allowing one to not only see gas seismically but also the lateral extent of each gas reservoir at various depths to include multiple horizons at some locations.
The gas targets at the Mississippi Frio-Wilcox Joint Venture occur at shallow depths and have minimal completion costs. The Frio in the area of Southwest Mississippi and North-Central Louisiana is a very complex series of sand representing marine transgressions and regressions and resulting in the
presence of varying depositional environments. Structurally, the Frio gas accumulations are a function of local structure and/or structural nose formed as a result of differential compaction features. However, stratigraphic termination (updip pinchout of sands within shales) also plays a role in most Frio accumulations. The stratigraphy is so complex that seismic HCL evaluations are the only viable exploratory tool for the Frio prospect.
Proposed Program of Exploration
Exploration activities on the Mississippi Frio-Wilcox Joint Venture has been delayed due to adverse weather conditions. We are currently evaluating the further exploration targets on the Mississippi Frio-Wilcox Joint Venture.
Willows Gas Field
The Company has participated in approximately 8 squares miles of a 3 dimensional seismic program located in Glenn County California in the northern Sacramento Valley. One well has been drilled completed tested and is currently selling gas at initial volumes of 1200 to 1500 Mcf/per day. There have been at least 12 other prospects generated from this seismic program and currently 3 additional wells have been permitted and approved to drill and there are 4 new wells going through the permit process. These are shallow wells, 2000'-4500' true vertical depth.
Cost Estimates Including Previous Work
As of May 31, 2008, we expended $1,896,557 in connection with the Mississippi Frio-Wilcox Joint Venture and the Willows Gas Field Joint Venture, including leasing, title, drilling, seismic, and casing.
Present Activities
We have drilled twelve Frio wells to date. We have abandoned eight of these wells. The four remaining wells have shown economically recoverable hydrocarbons: Redbug #1, Redbug #2, Faust #1, and Buffalo River. We have drilled our first well in the Willows Gas Field and this has shown economically recoverable hydrocarbons.
Productive Gas Wells
The following summarizes our productive and shut-in gas wells as of May 31, 2007. Producing wells are wells producing natural gas or water, a pre-cursor to natural gas production. Shut-in wells are completed wells that are capable of production but are currently not producing. Gross wells are the total number of wells in which we have a working interest. Net wells are the sum of our fractional working interests owned in the gross wells.
Oil And Gas Reserve Quantities
The oil and gas interests in the Mississippi Wilcox Joint-Venture that we participate in are subject to an independent reserve report entitled Est. of Future Reserves and Revenues in Mississippi of Louisiana to the LDBTS Joint Venture as of May 31, 2008. We have calculated the reserve quantities using these reports.
Proved oil and gas reserves are the estimated quantities of crude oil and natural gas which geological and engineering data demonstrate with reasonable certainty to be recoverable in future years from known reservoirs under existing economic and operating conditions. Due to inherent uncertainties and the limited nature of reservoir data, such estimates are subject to change as additional information becomes available. The estimates of reserves, future cash flows and present value are based on various assumptions, including those prescribed by the SEC, and are inherently imprecise. Although we believe these estimates are reasonable, actual future production, cash flows taxes, development expenditures,
operating expenses and quantities of recoverable oil and natural gas may vary substantially form these estimates. Also, the use of a 10% discount factor for reporting purposes may not necessarily represent the most appropriate discount factor, given actual interest rates and risks to which our business or the oil and natural gas industry in general are subject. Based on the Veazey Reserve Report, we had estimated total proved developed reserves of 107,920 MCF. We have not reported our reserves to any federal authority or agency. The following table sets forth certain information as of May 31, 2008 with respect to our estimated proved oil and gas reserves pursuant to SEC guidelines, and the present value of our proved oil and gas reserves.
Proved Reserves
In accordance with applicable financial accounting and reporting standards of the SEC, the estimates of our proved reserves set forth herein are made using oil and gas sales prices estimated to be in effect as of the date of such reserve estimates and are held constant throughout the life of the properties. Estimated quantities of proved reserves and their present value are affected by changes in oil and gas prices. The average price utilized for the purpose of estimating our proved reserves and the present vale of proved reserves as of May 31, 2008 was $9.64 per MCF of gas.
Production for the twelve months ended May 31, 2008, our total net production, was approximately 21,800 MCF of natural gas. The average prices received for our natural gas sales was $7.40 per MCF. Our average cost per MCF was $1.86.
Oil and Gas Acreage
The following table sets forth the undeveloped and developed acreage, by area, in which we hold an interest as of May 31, 2008. Undeveloped acres are acres on which wells have not been drilled or completed to a point that would permit the production of commercial quantities of oil and gas, regardless of whether or not such acreage contains proved reserves. Developed acres are acres, which are spaced or assignable to productive wells. Gross acres are the total number of acres in which we have a working interest. Net acreage is obtained by multiplying gross acreage by our working interest percentage in the properties. The table does not include acreage in which we have a contractual right to acquire or to earn through future drilling projects, or any other acreage for which we have not yet received registered interests.
Drilling Activity
The following table sets forth drilling activity by the operator during the period ended May 31, 2008:
Principal Products
The Company is actively pursuing oil and gas prospects and opportunities principally through its relationships with individuals and companies. Once prospective oil and gas opportunities are identified, the Company evaluates them to determine:
a)
The degree of risk;
b)
The commercial potential of a prospect;
c)
The Company’s available financial capacity to undertake/participate in the opportunity in a timely and meaningful way under the best terms and conditions; and
d)
The Company’s current portfolio of exploration, exploitation and development prospects consolidated risk profile.
The Company has developed a foundational strategy for success which includes careful analysis of every opportunity to determine how it fits with the overall strategic objectives of the Company. The strategic objectives is to develop proven energy rich areas of North America.
The Wilcox and Frio Wells are currently in production. As production of oil and gas products continue in Wilcox and Frio wells, we anticipate that generally they will be sold to purchasers in the immediate area where the products are produced. We expect that the principal markets for oil and gas will continue to be refineries and transmission companies that have facilities near our producing properties.
Market for Oil and Gas Production
The market for oil and gas production is regulated by both the state and federal governments. The overall market is mature and with the exception of gas, all producers in a producing region will receive the same price. The major oil companies will purchase all crude oil offered for sale at posted field prices. There are price adjustments for quality difference from the Benchmark. Benchmark is Saudi Arabian light crude oil employed as the standard on which OPEC price changes have been based. Quality variances from Benchmark crude results in lower prices being paid for the variant oil. Oil sales are normally contracted with a purchaser or gatherer as it is known in the industry who will pick-up the oil at the well site. In some instances there may be deductions for transportation from the well head to the sales point. At this time the majority of crude oil purchasers do not charge transportation fees, unless the well is outside their service area. The service area is a geographical area in which the purchaser of crude oil will not charge a fee for picking upon the oil. The purchaser or oil gatherer as it is called within the oil industry, will usually handle all check disbursements to both the working interest and royalty owners. We are a working interest owner. By being a working interest owner, we are responsible for the payment of our
proportionate share of the operating expenses of the well. Royalty owners and over-riding royalty owners receive a percentage of gross oil production for the particular lease and are not obligated in any manner whatsoever to pay for the costs of operating the lease. Therefore, we, in most instances, are paying the expenses for the oil and gas revenues paid to the royalty and over-riding royalty interests.
Gas sales are by contract
The gas purchaser will pay the well operator 100% of the sales proceeds on or about the 25th of each and every month for the previous months sales. The operator is responsible for all checks and distributions to the working interest and royalty owners. There is no standard price for gas. Prices will fluctuate with the seasons and the general market conditions. It is our intention to utilize this market when ever possible in order to maximize revenues. We do not anticipate any significant change in the manner production is purchased, however, no assurance can be given at this time that such changes will not occur.
Distribution
The operator on the oil and natural gas properties in which we currently hold a participating interest has access to the following pipelines;
·
Tunica Pipeline, LLC -The Tunica Pipeline, LLC is a pipeline system running east-west across Wilkinson County, Mississippi, and ties into the Mid-Louisiana pipeline system. The Tunica Pipeline, LLC pipeline system and operations are exclusively controlled by the consortium partners. This line comprises 20 miles of 6-inch pipe with a 12.5-mile, 4-1/2 inch spur running due south and another 8-mile, 4-1/2 inch spur running north. The pipeline provides the option to take this line under the Mississippi River to serve any wells drilled in Louisiana. The nearest Louisiana pipeline is slightly over 40 miles to the west of the area of mutual interest under the Company’s agreement with G&G.
·
East Fork Pipeline, LLC - The East Fork Pipeline, LLC is a pipeline system running more or less east-west across Amite County, Mississippi, and ties into a pipeline system known as the TRANSCO system. The consortium partners control access to this pipeline. The line comprises 15 miles of 6-inch pipe. The line was acquired to service wells and potential 3D seismic areas.
·
Other area Pipelines - Other lines in this area include Duke, Mid-Louisiana, TRANSCO and Pinnacle. These lines have transportation rates of $0.11 to $0.50/Mcf (price does not include compression, dehydration or gas processing).
Competition
Oil and gas exploration, mineral exploration and acquisition of undeveloped properties are highly competitive and speculative businesses. We compete with a number of other companies, including major mining and oil and gas companies and other independent operators that are more experienced and which
have greater financial resources. We do not hold a significant competitive position in either the mining industry or the oil and gas industry.
Compliance with Government Regulation
In the United States, domestic development, production and sale of oil and gas are extensively regulated at both the federal and state levels. These regulations include requiring permits for drilling wells; maintaining prevention plans; submitting notification and receiving permits in relation to the presence, use and release of certain materials incidental to oil and gas operations; and regulating the location of wells, the method of drilling and casing wells, the use, transportation, storage and disposal of fluids and
materials used in connection with drilling and production activities, surface plugging and abandoning of wells and the transporting of production. Legislation affecting the oil and gas industry is under constant review for amendment or expansion, frequently increasing the regulatory burden. Also, numerous departments and agencies, both federal and state, have issued rules and regulations binding on the oil and gas industry and its individual members, compliance with which is often difficult and costly and some of which carry substantial penalties for failure to comply. Inasmuch as new legislation affecting the oil and gas industry is commonplace, and existing laws and regulations are frequently amended or reinterpreted, the Company is unable to predict the future cost or impact of complying with these laws and regulations.
State statutes and regulations require permits for drilling operations, drilling bonds and reports concerning wells. Some states also have statutes and regulations governing conservation matters, including the unitization or pooling of oil and gas properties and establishment of maximum rates of production from oil and gas wells.
Our operations are also subject to extensive and developing federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to environmental, health and safety matters; petroleum; chemical products and materials; and waste management. Permits, registrations or other authorizations are required for the operation of certain of our facilities and for our oil and gas exploration and future production activities. These permits, registrations or authorizations are subject to revocation, modification and renewal. Governmental authorities have the power to enforce compliance with these regulatory requirements, the provisions of required permits, registrations or other authorizations, and lease conditions, and violators are subject to civil and criminal penalties, including fines, injunctions or both. Failure to obtain or maintain a required permit may also result in the imposition of civil and criminal penalties. Third parties may have the right to sue to enforce compliance.
Our operations are also subject to various conservation matters, including the number of wells which may be drilled in a unit, and the unitization or pooling of oil and gas properties. In this regard, some states allow the forced pooling or integration of tracts to facilitate exploration while other states rely on voluntary pooling of lands and leases, which may make it more difficult to develop oil and gas properties. In addition, state conservation laws establish maximum rates of production for oil and gas wells, generally limit the venting or flaring of gas, and impose certain requirements regarding the ratable purchase of production. The effect of these regulations is to limit the amounts of oil and gas we can produce from its wells and to limit the number of wells or the locations at which we can drill.
Our operations, as is the case in the petroleum industry generally, are significantly affected by federal tax laws. Federal, as well as state, tax laws have many provisions applicable to corporations which could affect our future tax liability.
Environmental Matters
Our exploration, development, and future production of oil and gas are subject to various federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations discussed below. Such laws and regulations can increase the costs of planning, designing, installing and operating oil and gas wells. We consider the cost of environmental protection a necessary and manageable part of its business. We have been able to plan for and comply with new environmental initiatives without materially altering its operating strategies.
Our activities are subject to a variety of environmental laws and regulations, including but not limited to, the Oil Pollution Act of 1990 (“OPA”), the Clean Water Act (“CWA”), the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (“CERCLA”), the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (“RCRA”), the Clean Air Act (“CAA”), and the Safe Drinking Water Act (“SDWA”), as well as state regulations promulgated under comparable state statutes. We are also subject to regulations governing the handling, transportation, storage, and disposal of naturally occurring radioactive materials that are found in its oil and gas operations. Civil and criminal fines and penalties may be imposed for
non-compliance with these environmental laws and regulations. Additionally, these laws and regulations require the acquisition of permits or other governmental authorizations before undertaking certain activities, limit or prohibit other activities because of protected areas or species, and impose substantial liabilities for cleanup of pollution.
Under the OPA, a release of oil into water or other areas designated by the statute could result in the us being held responsible for the costs of remediating such a release, certain OPA specified damages, and natural resource damages. The extent of that liability could be extensive, as set out in the statute, depending on the nature of the release. A release of oil in harmful quantities or other materials into water or other specified areas could also result in the Company being held responsible under the CWA for the costs of remediation, and civil and criminal fines and penalties.
CERCLA and comparable state statutes, also known as “Superfund” laws, can impose joint and several and retroactive liability, without regard to fault or the legality of the original conduct, on certain classes of persons for the release of a “hazardous substance” into the environment. In practice, cleanup costs are usually allocated among various responsible parties. Potentially liable parties include site owners or operators, past owners or operators under certain conditions, and entities that arrange for the disposal or treatment of, or transport hazardous substances found at the site. Although CERCLA, as amended, currently exempts petroleum, including but not limited to, crude oil, gas and natural gas liquids from the definition of hazardous substance, our operations may involve the use or handling of other materials that may be classified as hazardous substances under CERCLA. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that the exemption will be preserved in future amendments of the act, if any.
RCRA and comparable state and local requirements impose standards for the management, including treatment, storage, and disposal of both hazardous and non-hazardous solid wastes. We generate hazardous and non-hazardous solid waste in connection with its routine operations. From time to time, proposals have been made that would reclassify certain oil and gas wastes, including wastes generated during drilling, production and pipeline operations, as “hazardous wastes” under RCRA which would make such solid wastes subject to much more stringent handling, transportation, storage, disposal, and clean-up requirements. This development could have a significant impact on our operating costs. While state laws vary on this issue, state initiatives to further regulate oil and gas wastes could have a similar impact.
Item 3.