ITEM 2.
PROPERTIES
Description of Our Concessions
Mineral rights in Mexico belong to the Mexican government and are administered pursuant to Article 27 of the Mexican Constitution. Mining concessions may be granted to Mexican citizens or companies incorporated under Mexican law and grant the holder the right to explore and exploit all minerals found in the ground. The table below reflects certain information about the mining concessions we currently hold through our Mexican Subsidiary. These concessions are registered with the Public Registry of Mining in Mexico City. The Solidaridad Property to which the following concessions relate is in the exploration stage and has no proven or probable reserves.
The above group of concessions are collectively referred to as the “Solidaridad Concessions.” Our concessions have a term of fifty years from the date first acquired and can be renewed for another fifty years. In order to maintain the concessions, the Company must pay surface taxes semi-annually in January and July and perform a minimum amount of assessment work on a calendar year basis. Assessment work reports are required to be filed annually in May for the preceding calendar year. The amount of surface taxes and annual assessments are set by regulation and may increase over the life of the concession and include periodic adjustments for inflation. The Company has confirmed the Solidaridad Concessions are in full force and effect as of the date of this Annual Report.
Location and Access
The Company’s mining concessions, or mineral rights related to specific parcels of property, are located in southern Michoacán, which is in the southwestern portion of Mexico. Local and regional geologic evidence strongly suggests the possibility that the concessions owned by the Company are located within a mineral rich area of the state. Approximately 30 miles to the southwest of the Solidaridad Property is a mine from which copper has been produced for over 100 years. The owners of that mine have continued exploration, which resulted in the discovery of another mineral deposit separate from the 100 year old working mine. According to information we have obtained, the ore produced at that mine has similar characteristics to the mineralized material we have found from the exploration we have conducted to date on the Solidaridad Property. In the northern part of the Solidaridad Property are two abandoned mines and a few small hand worked mines. To the south of and within the Solidaridad Property exist two additional abandoned mines, all of which will require routine but formal investigation.
The Solidaridad Property is accessible by a paved road from the city of Morelia, the capital of Michoacán, and the claim sites are accessible by a gravel road from the village of Paso de Nunez. The Solidaridad Property is part of the Sierra Madre mountain range, and rests in an area of valleys and peaks ranging from 610 to 1,100 meters in elevation. The surrounding area is predominantly agrarian. Villages immediately near the claim sites offer little or no amenities; however, there are some hardware, cement, and other suppliers in relatively close proximity. There is no heavy industry in the region. Electricity is currently being provided to us by our contractors through generators.
Mining concessions do not automatically grant the holder the right to enter or use the surface land of the property where such mining concessions are located. In order to access the surface land, the holder must obtain permission from the surface owner. We currently have secured access rights to the portion of the Solidaridad Property where our concessions Solidaridad I, Solidaridad III, and Solidaridad V are located by way of a written agreement entered into by and between our Mexican Subsidiary and the owners of the portion of the Solidaridad Property where these concessions are located. This agreement requires us to pay an annual rent to the landowner. We are in the process of securing, but have not yet secured, access rights to other portions of the Solidaridad Property, which we plan to do in the future in connection with any decision to begin exploration and/or exploitation of those areas. If we are ultimately unable to receive access, or unable to receive access at a reasonable price, it may affect our ability to explore for, or exploit, mineralized material from those areas.
All or portion of the Solidaridad Property where concessions Solidaridad II, Solidaridad III, Solidaridad IV, Solidaridad V and La Sabila are located are Ejido lands. Ejidos are groups of local inhabitants who are granted rights by the Mexican government to conduct agricultural activities on the surface of the property. Our ability to exploit the mineralized material from the portion of the Solidaridad Property where these concessions are located is subject to making satisfactory arrangements with the Ejido for access and surface disturbances. We must negotiate and maintain a satisfactory arrangement with these inhabitants in order to disturb or discontinue their rights to conduct such agricultural activities. Amendments to Article 27 of the Mexican Constitution in 1994 allow the Ejido to enter into commercial ventures with individuals or entities. However, we currently do not have an agreement with the local Ejidos allowing us to explore for, or exploit, the mineralized material in the property where these concessions are located. We plan to negotiate such arrangements at such time as we make a decision to begin exploitation of those areas.
Mexican law recognizes mining as a land use generally superior to agricultural. However, the law also recognizes the rights of the Ejido to compensation in the event mining activities interrupt or discontinues their use of the agricultural lands. Compensation is typically made in the form of a cash payment to the holder of the agricultural rights. The amount of such compensation is generally related to the perceived value of the agricultural rights as would be negotiated between the Ejidos and the Company. If the parties are unable to reach agreement on the amount of the compensation, the decision will be referred to the Mexican government. If we are ultimately unable to successfully negotiate such an arrangement or, if we are successful in negotiating such an arrangement but are ultimately unable to maintain such agreement, it may impair or impede our ability to successfully exploit the mineralized material from the portion of the Solidaridad Property where these concessions are located.
Prior Exploration Activities
The property was discovered in 1995 by La Esperanza de Oro, SA de CV. (“La Esperanza”) after a favorable report by their geologist. Exploration on the property was conducted by La Esperanza in 1996 and M.I.M. Holdings (now Xstrata) in 1997 - 1998. Geochemical soil surveys by La Esperanza showed anomalous ore grade readings for gold, silver and copper. The anomalies extended out several thousand feet both north and south of the workings. M.I.M. Holdings also identified large coincident gold-in-soil and induced-polarization anomalies, which broadly define a mineralized area measuring 3 kilometers north-south by 500 meters east-west. M.I.M. identified several NE/SW trending mineralized structures within this area, and tested them with 21 reverse circulation drill holes. The drilling indicated gold-copper-silver mineralization. Based on M.I.M.’s estimates, the largest zone, the Main Zone proved 3 million tons of mineralized material grading 3.0 g/t gold, 20 g/t silver, and 0.5% copper to a depth of 150 meters. Two other areas of mineralization identified by M.I.M. include the North Zone, which lies 300 meters north of the Main Zone, and Cuendao, which lies 2 kilometers to the south. Little is known of the sampling methods made by La Esperanza or M.I.M. Holdings. We have not substantiated their findings and do not currently have the funding to do so.
Present Condition of Our Property
Our plan of exploration consists of continued definition and exploratory drilling of the Solidaridad Property. To date, we have completed fourteen drill holes with plans to continue drilling through 2009, assuming we can obtain sufficient funding. Out of the fourteen drill holes, ten holes have shown mineralized zones while four have not shown significant results. As part of our core drilling program approximately 4,000 meters of core samples were produced. The core samples are sent to our core laboratory in Morelia where the samples are logged in detail and mineralized intercepts are sawed and sampled. These processed samples are then shipped to Chris Christopherson Laboratory, an independent umpire assayer located in Kellogg, Idaho. Applied Minerals, Inc. supervises the chain of custody of all core samples shipped to Chris Christopherson Laboratory for analytical assays. The information from the core logs and assays are then plotted on cross sections and plan maps are generated by the geologic staff and the data is entered into a computer modeling program so that analyses can be made by our staff.
The Company has partially built a camp facility which, when completed, we expect to provide on-site lodging for drill crews and our staff. The camp facility is not yet functional due to lack of funding. If the Company can raise sufficient funds, of which there can be no assurance, we expect to complete the camp facility.
A heavy rainfall washed out access roads to the claim sites and created water drainage problems, therefore we made road improvements to allow access to the sites. Limited road improvements to address the water drainage problems included creating some concrete drainage ditches and water sumps.
Depending on the amount of funding we are able to raise in the future, we have considered a more comprehensive plan for development of the Solidaridad Property. Assuming the amount of future investments is sufficient to allow us to engage in an exploration and drilling program that is designed to increase our understanding of any mineralized material located in the Solidaridad Property, we plan to engage an industry recognized mining and geological consulting firm to assist us in our strategic planning and development as well as our operations.
We believe a consulting firm can further authenticate the work we have done to date with our exploration and drilling program as well as assist us in formulating a two year exploration and drilling program that we believe will culminate in a Feasibility A and then a Feasibility B study provided funding is available to us and our initial results as supported by the studies. We will not be able to engage a consultant or execute additional exploration activities unless we are able to raise additional funding.
We believe that investing capital in an exploration and drilling program that has been designed with the assistance of a mining consultant well known to the industry would move the Company well toward its goal of determining to a much higher degree of certainty its mineralized material over a two year period.
While continuing our exploratory drilling aimed at increasing our estimate of mineralized material, we also plan to implement a small exploitation program provided we can raise sufficient funds to do so. This would require approximately $15 million. We believe a more comprehensive understanding of the estimated mineralized material on the property and a Feasibility B Study would allow the Company more options as we look to monetize the value of the mineralized materials. These options may include, but are not limited to, entering into a joint venture with an operating company, permitting an operating company to undertake exploration work at the Solidaridad Property, seeking equity or debt financing (including borrowing from commercial lenders) or a sale of the Company or its assets. Of course there can be no guarantee that we will be able to raise sufficient capital to execute our current business plan or remain in business, or that if we do obtain sufficient funding, that our estimates of mineralized material will increase or that circumstances or market conditions will be sufficient to allow us to benefit from any of these options.
Geology and Mineralization
The Solidaridad Property is located within the geographic region of southern Michoacán referred to as Tierra Caliente and south of the Trans-Mexican Volcanic Belt. This geographic region is characterized by rugged volcanic mountain terrain.
Our drilling program has identified a sedimentary sequence consisting of phyllites and schists on the surface. The sedimentary sequence is believed to be Cretaceous/Tertiary in age. Below the metasediments are black shales and mudstones with interbedded volcanic dikes and sills. The entire sequence is dipping approximately 50 degrees. The property is heavily faulted. Quartz sulfide veins also exist, frequently concordant with the sedimentary units and are enriched in sulfide mineralization consisting mainly of pyrite and chalcopyrite in varying proportions. Galena and sphalerite occur infrequently. Gold appears to be more closely associated with the pyrite while the silver is associated with the chalcopyrite. Gold, silver and copper have been identified in assays samples; however, no petrographic or mineralogic study of the ore has been completed to date.
The Company has commissioned and received a National Instrument 43-101 Compliant Technical Report (the “43-101 Report”) from Applied Minerals, Inc., an independent consultant, which discloses certain technical information about the Company’s mineral projects as well as estimates of the mineralized material located on the Solidaridad Property. Michael Floersch, the CEO of Applied Minerals, Inc., was engaged in February 2008 by the Company to advise us regarding our drilling program, initiate and maintain the chain of custody procedure for the core samples from the drill site to the assayer in Kellogg, Idaho and assume responsibility for quality control in the drilling program.
Office Facilities
In July 2009, we relocated our headquarters from Sanford, Florida to Lake Mary, Florida. We currently have a one year lease which, if not renewed, will expire in July 2010.
The Company leases a warehouse (storage) facility in the city of Morelia, Michoacán, Mexico. This lease expires February 1, 2011 and calls for monthly rent of 26,500 Mexican Pesos (approximately US $2,000). The Company may decide prior to the termination of this contract whether it wishes to renew. The landlord is not obligated to renew the lease.
The Company also had a three year lease for a house in Michoacán, Mexico which was set to expire April 1, 2010. On August 31, 2009, the Company cancelled this lease for a penalty of 16,000 Mexican Pesos (approximately US $1,200). The Company entered into a one year lease for a different house in Michoacán, Mexico which expires on August 1, 2010 and calls for monthly rent of 16,000 Mexican Pesos (approximately US $1,200).
The warehouse in Morelia houses the core sample laboratory, provides a core sample storage area and temporary offices. In addition, we anticipated completion of a metallurgical and chemistry laboratory on the Solidaridad Property with operations to begin in 2009. However, due to lack of funding this has not occurred. The Company has suspended any construction efforts until such time as it receives sufficient funding to move forward. If the Company can raise sufficient funds, of which there can be no assurance, we expect that this laboratory could be functional in early 2010. If and when the laboratory becomes functional, we currently plan to use it to assist the technical staff in all necessary real time testing and evaluations of mineralization during the exploration and drilling stages as well as in developing the Feasibility A and B reports at the end of the two year exploration and drilling program discussed above. Otherwise, we will continue to have the metallurgical testing conducted by outside laboratories.
Glossary
Core Samples
Roughly cylindrical pieces of subsurface material removed by a drill and brought to the surface for examination.
Development
The process following exploration, whereby a mineral deposit is further evaluated and prepared for production. This generally involves significant drilling and may include underground work.
Dike
A vertical or near vertical tabular body of igneous rock that cross cuts across the existing country rock. Dikes form when magma rises into an existing fracture, or creates a new crack by forcing its way through existing rock, and then solidifies.
Drilling
The process of boring a hole in the rock to obtain a sample for determination of metal content. “Reverse Circulation Drilling” involves chips of rock being forced back through the center of the drill pipe using air or water.
Ejido
Are agrarian cooperative lands granted by the Mexican federal government to local inhabitants to conduct agricultural activities on the property pursuant to Article 27 of the Mexican Constitution.
Exploration
The search for mineral deposits using prospecting, geological mapping, geochemical and geophysical surveys, drilling, sampling and other means used to detect and perform initial evaluations of mineral deposits.
Hectare
A metric unit of measurement for surface area. One hectare equals 1/200th of a square kilometer, 10,000 square meters or 2.47 acres.
Igneous
A type of rock which has been formed by the consolidation of magma, a molten substance from the earth’s core.
Metallurgy Testing
The testing of metals and their physical and chemical properties in bulk.
Mineralized Material
Minerals or any mass of host rock in which minerals of potential commercial value occur.
Mudstone
Fine grained sedimentary rock whose original constituents were clays or muds.
Ore
A natural mineral compound of elements of which one at least is a metal (e.g. copper, lead, molybdenum, zinc, gold). The term is applied more loosely to all metalliferous rock and occasionally to compounds of nonmetallic substances and industrial minerals such as sulphur ore. In economic terms, an ore is a mineral of sufficient value as to quality and quantity that it may be mined at a profit.
Phyllite
A type of foliated metamorphic rock primarily composed of quartz, sericite mica, and chlorite. The rock represents a gradation in the degree of metamorphism between slate and mica schist. Minute crystals of graphite, sericite, or chlorite impart a silky, sometimes golden sheen to the surfaces of cleavage (or schistosity). Phylite is formed from the continued metamorphism of slate.
Production
The process following development whereby mineral deposits are exploited from the ground, and as required, the subsequent processing into products.
Reserves
That part of a mineral deposit which could be economically and legally extracted or produced at the time of the reserve determination.
(1) Proven (Measured) Reserves: Reserves for which (a) quantity is computed from dimensions revealed in outcrops, trenches, workings or drill holes; grade and/or quality are computed from the results of detailed sampling and (b) the sites for inspection, sampling and measurement are spaced so closely and the geologic character is so well defined that size, shape, depth and mineral content or reserves are well-established.
(2) Probable (Indicated) Reserves: Reserves for which quantity and grade and/or quality are computed from information similar to that used from proven (measured) reserves, but the sites for inspection, sampling and measurement are farther apart or are otherwise less adequately spaced. The degree of assurance, although lower than that for proven (measured) reserves, is high enough to assume continuity between points of observation.
Schists
A group of medium-grade metamorphic rocks, chiefly notable for the predominance of lamellar minerals such as micas, chlorite, talc, hornblende, graphite, and others. Quartz often occurs in drawn-out grains to such an extent that a particular form called quartz schist is produced. By definition, schist contains more than 50% platy and elongated minerals, often finely interleaved with quartz and feldspar. Schist is often garnetiferous.
Shale
Fine grained sedimentary rock whose original constituents were clay minerals or muds. Black Shales are dark, as a result of being especially rich in unoxidized carbon.
Sills
A tabular body of intrusive igneous rock, parallel to the layering of the rocks into which it intrudes.
Tierra Caliente
Used in Latin America to refer to those places within that realm which have a distinctly tropical climate. The Tierra Caliente forms at Sea Level to about 2,500 ft.
ITEM 3.