Item 2.
PROPERTIES
Real Property
We do not own any real property, however, we do own the mineral rights on our Projects. All of our exploration activities are currently conducted at project sites located in Ghana. Mining leases or prospecting licenses to which we are a party, granting us the right to operate at our Kwabeng, Pameng, Apapam, Banso and Muoso and Edum Banso Projects, are described elsewhere in this Report.
Our administrative activities are currently conducted from our corporate office, where we have leased 1,163 square feet for a 66 month term commencing on May 1, 2007. This office is located at Suite 301, 360 Bay Street, Toronto, Ontario, Canada, M5H 2V6. We paid rent of approximately $3,397 per month in the first and second years of the lease and will pay approximately $3,494 per month in the third and fourth years of the lease and approximately $3,591 per month in the fifth year of the lease.
As of the date of this Report, our technical activities are conducted at our Field Camp located in Kwabeng, Ghana. Our technical activities were also previously conducted from our technical office located at House No. 15, Ade-Coker Road, East Legon, Accra, Ghana. As of February 2009, we terminated the lease for these premises as a cost-saving measure.
We previously maintained a technical office located at 430 Westmount Avenue, Unit F, Sudbury, Ontario, Canada, P3A 5Z8, where our Vice-President, Exploration and his staff conduct business. As of December 2008, we terminated the rental arrangement at this location as a cost-saving measure.
Map of Properties and Operations
The map, on the following page, shows the locations of our Kwabeng, Pameng, Apapam, Banso and Muoso and Edum Banso Projects all of which are described in further detail in this Report.
- 13 -
- 14 -
Description of Properties
Each of our mineral exploration projects is currently at an early stage of evaluation and no mineralized material or reserve estimates have been made. The present exploration activities on these projects, including grid establishment, soil sampling, prospecting/geological mapping, pitting/trenching and geophysics, are aimed at identifying lode gold (hardrock) mineral occurrences to be further evaluated through drilling. We have completed preliminary lode gold exploration programs at our Banso and Muoso, Apapam and Edum Banso Projects and their respective results are noted hereunder. We have not yet produced any gold at our Apapam, Pameng, Banso and Muoso and Edum Banso Projects and we will require substantial additional capital in order to do so.
Three concessions totaling 118.92 sq km; namely our Kwabeng Project, Pameng Project and our Apapam Project, which is located to the south of our Kwabeng and Pameng Projects, are contiguous to our Banso and Muoso Project.
Kwabeng and Pameng Projects
Access and Location
Access to our Kwabeng Project can be gained by driving northwest from the City of Accra on the Accra-Kumasi Trunk Road, which is the main paved national highway, for approximately 110 km until arrival at the road sign for “Kwabeng” where we have posted a sign reading “Xtra-Gold Mining Ltd. - Kwabeng”. Make a left hand turn on the road where a sign reads Town of Anyinam and drive southwest approximately 10 km until the Town of Kwabeng is reached where our Field Camp is located on the right side of the road approximately 50 meters from the Anyinam to Kwabeng road. Our Field Camp is located approximately 500 meters from the Town of Kwabeng. The eastern boundary of our Kwabeng Project is approximately 500 meters to the east of our Field Camp.
Access to our Pameng Project can be gained by driving northwest from the City of Accra on the Accra-Kumasi Trunk Road, which is the main paved national highway, for approximately 125 km until arrival at the village of Pameng where there is a road sign reading “Pameng”. Make a left hand turn at the Pameng sign and drive southwest approximately 2 km to reach our Pameng concession. Our Pameng concession is located approximately 15 km south-southwest from our Field Camp.
Title to Properties
We hold 30-year mining leases expiring on July 26, 2019 on our Kwabeng and Pameng mining concessions (see “Mining Leases - Kwabeng and Pameng Projects”) and a 7-year mining lease on our Apapam mining concession expiring on December 17, 2015 (see “Mining Lease - Apapam Project”). Our interest in our Banso and Muoso Project is held in a prospecting license (see “Banso and Muoso Prospecting License”) and our interest in our Edum Banso Project is held through an option agreement (see “The Edum Banso Project - Option Agreement for Prospecting License”).
Historical Work
These three Projects have had very little exploration for lode source gold deposits; however, there has been detailed exploration for placer gold deposits. The Kwabeng, Pameng and Apapam Projects contain approximately 12,583,000 BCM with an average grade of 0.568 grams/BCM. In addition to the mineralized material, there is potential to define reserves with further exploration.
The placer gold deposit currently located at our Kwabeng concession was mined by the former owner in the early 1990’s for 15 months and produced approximately 16,800 ounces of gold before operations were ceased due to mining difficulties as noted hereunder. The placer gold is contained in a gravel deposit distributed across the floor of the river valleys west of the Atewa Range which can easily be excavated.
- 15 -
Field Camp at Kwabeng Project
In addition to the three mining leases, XG Mining owns the Wash Plant and the Field Camp which is a functional living compound for mining personnel and is also comprised of offices and facilities for stores, engineering and exploration activities. The Wash Plant and the Field Camp are located on the property included in our Kwabeng concession, close to the town of Kwabeng.
We engage experienced mining personnel with respect to our recovery of gold effort at our Kwabeng Project. When the operations resume, approximately 100 personnel will be working at the Kwabeng Field Camp. Our Mine Manager supervises all personnel at our Plant, Field Camp and gold recovery room (“Gold Room”) and a Mining Geologist supervises the exploration and planning of daily recovery of gold activities of our personnel.
Former Ownership
In the early 1990’s, the former mining lessee invested approximately $24,000,000 to open and operate a mine at the Kwabeng concession. The mining operation lasted for 15 months and 16,800 ounces of gold was produced before the mine was shut down.
The preceding mining effort failed as the former operator was unable to achieve anticipated throughput due to the design and construction deficiencies of the processing plant. Significant operational costs to sustain high throughputs, a poor gold price, lack of funds to continue mining operations and the lack of available qualified placer gold consultants, engineers and operators which led to the engagement of expensive foreign personnel also contributed to the failure of the previous mining effort.
We are able to address the foregoing past failings of the former operator as we have: (i) redesigned our Wash Plant to accommodate a higher capacity of throughput; (ii) engaged experienced Ghanaian engineers, geological consultants and accounting personnel; (iii) cash available to sustain our current recovery of gold effort for approximately 12 months; and (iv) a plan to derive cash proceeds from our current recovery of gold effort in order to meet operational costs through the course of advancing our plan. Also, the current gold price (approximately $930 per ounce) is significantly greater compared to the gold price during the previous mining effort (approximately $300 per ounce). On the basis of our planned annual recovery of gold of approximately 360,000 BCM, we anticipate that our plan could continue for 20 years, however, this will depend upon numerous factors including the grade and commercial recoverability of the mineralized material and the selling gold price at the relevant time.
Floating Gold Ore Washing and Processing Plant
The Wash Plant was custom manufactured for the placer gold ores located on the Kwabeng and Pameng concessions by IHC of the Netherlands and shipped to Ghana in disassembled modules in the early 1990’s while the Kwabeng mining lease was held by the former owner, Goldenrae Mining Company Limited. The Wash Plant is made up of two major functional components: (i) a series of modular pontoons which are assembled on-site to make up the floating barge portion of the Wash Plant; and (ii) the gold ore processing and recovery equipment, power generation equipment are installed, which is comprised of vibrating grizzly feeder, scrubber, vibrating screen, a three stage IHC radial jig gold recovery unit and provisions for the disposal of the barren processed gravels back into the mining pit. The rated recovery of gold capacity of the Wash Plant is approximately 80 cubic meters of ore gravels per hour and we anticipate that it will be operated continuously by the staff to be hired at the commencement of full scale production at our Kwabeng concession. When operations resume at our Kwabeng Project, we plan to operate the Wash Plant on a one 10 hour shift per day for six days of the week. The Wash Plant and our Field Camp thereto are connected to the national power grid (hydro) in Ghana. As well, a new vibrating screen deck and water supply pump have been installed and the Wash Plant is fully operational.
Bulk Test
We completed the Bulk Test at our Kwabeng Project on March 25, 2007. During the Bulk Test, we collected, processed, analyzed and sold the gold recovered from the Bulk Test. We obtained the necessary approvals and permits from the Ghanaian government authorities prior to commencing the Bulk Test.
- 16 -
Mining Leases - Kwabeng and Pameng Projects
Our subsidiary, XG Mining, which is owned by us as to a 90% interest, entered into two individual mining leases on July 26, 1989 with The Government of the Republic of Ghana (the “Government of Ghana”), which holds a 10% interest in XG Mining, covering an area of 44.76 sq km with respect to the Kwabeng concession and 40.51 sq km with respect to the Pameng concession (collectively, the “Lease Area”), located in the East Akim District of the Eastern Region of the Republic of Ghana. These mining leases have a 30 year term expiring on July 26, 2019. We have been granted surface and mining rights by the Government of Ghana to work, develop and produce gold in the lease area (including processing, storing and transportation of ore and materials). With respect to each mining lease, we are: (i) required to pay applicable taxes and annual rental fees of approximately $15 to the Government of Ghana; and (ii) committed to pay a royalty in each quarter through the Commissioner of Internal Revenue based on the production for that quarter within 30 days from the quarter end as well as a royalty on all timber felled in accordance with existing legislation. Under the terms and conditions of each mining lease, we are required to furnish to the Secretary for Lands and Natural Resources (now the Minister of Lands, Forestry and Mines), the Chief Inspector of Mines (now the Head of the Inspectorate Division of the Minerals Commission) (the “HIDMC”), the Chief Executive of the Minerals Commission and the Director of Geological Survey (now the Director of Ghana Geological Survey (the “DGGS”) (collectively referred to as the “Government Authorities”) (i) a report in each quarter not later than 30 days after the quarter end in connection with quantities of gold won, quantities sold, revenue received and royalties payable for that quarter; (ii) a report half-yearly not later than 40 days after the half year end to the aforementioned government authorities summarizing the results of operations in the Lease Area during the half year and technical records to be maintained by the company as particularly set forth in the respective mining leases (the “Technical Records”), which report shall further contain a description for any geological or geophysical work carried out by the company during that half year and a plan upon a scale approved by the Head of the Inspectorate Division of the Minerals Commission showing mine workings and dredging areas; (iii) a report not later than 60 days after the end of each financial year to the Government Authorities (except for the DGGS) summarizing the results of its operations in the Lease Area during that financial year and the Technical Records, which report shall further contain a description of the proposed operations for the following year with an estimate of the production and revenue to be obtained; (iv) a report not later than three months after the expiration or termination of the respective mining leases, to the Government Authorities, giving an account of the geology of the Lease Area including the stratigraphic and structural conditions and a geological map on a scale prescribed in the Mining Regulations; (v) a report to the Government Authorities (except for HIDMC and DGGS) of any proposed alteration to its regulations and a report of the particulars of any proposed transfer of any share of its capital stock representing 1% of more of the total number of issued and outstanding shares; (vi) a report to the Government Authorities on the particulars of any fresh share issuance or borrowings in excess of an amount equal to the stated capital of XG Mining; and (vii) having regard to items (v) and (vi), these reports shall be submitted not less than 60 days in advance of the proposed alteration, transfer, issue or borrowing; (viii) a copy of XG Mining’s annual financial reports including a balance sheet, profit and loss account and notes thereto certified by a qualified accountant who is a member of the Ghana Institute of Chartered Accountants not later than 180 days after the financial year end to the Government Authorities (except for HIDMC and DGGS); and (ix) such other reports and information in connection with our operations to the Government Authorities as they may reasonably require. We are entitled to surrender all or any part of our interest in the lease area upon providing proper notice to the Government of Ghana. We have the right to terminate our interest in each mining lease if the subject mine can no longer be economically worked, by giving not less than nine months’ notice to the Government Authorities, without prejudice to any obligation or liability incurred prior to such termination. The Government of Ghana has the right to terminate our interest in the mining leases if (i) we fail to make payments when due; (ii) contravene or fail to comply with terms and conditions of mining lease (however, we have three months to remedy from the notice of such event); (iii) become insolvent or commit an act of bankruptcy; or (iv) submit false statements to the Government Authorities.
The mining leases further provide that XG Mining shall report forthwith to the Government Authorities in the event it discovers any other minerals in the Lease Area, who in turn will provide XG Mining with the first option to prospect further and to work the said minerals subject to satisfactory arrangements made between XG Mining and the Government Authorities.
Recovery and Sale of Gold
As of December 31, 2008, we have sold an aggregate of 8,771.34 ounces of gold recovered from the mineralized material at our Kwabeng Project. We do not have an exclusive agreement with any company or entity to buy the gold that we recover.
- 17 -
Ancillary Operations
Our company already possesses a fully operational and well maintained Field Camp comprised of office, administration accommodation and workshop facilities located on the Kwabeng concession and is accessible by paved road located approximately 2 hours drive from the capital city of Accra. Our Field Camp is the base of operations for our Kwabeng, Pameng and Apapam Projects. The Field Camp is within cell phone coverage and is supplied with electricity from the national power grid, which lines run along the road accessing the Field Camp. When operations resume at the Kwabeng Project, all of our senior staff will be accommodated in the Field Camp with the junior staff finding accommodation in the surrounding towns and villages.
We deliver fuel from Accra by tanker and discharge the fuel into and store the fuel in the fuel tank facility located within the Field Camp. We purchase spare parts for all of our equipment either locally or from suppliers overseas and store such parts in the secure spare parts warehouse located at the Field Camp.
There is adequate office space at the Field Camp to accommodate our mine planning and engineering, geology, surveying, environmental, processing, equipment maintenance and other departments, as well as our laborers.
Equipment Maintenance
We currently rent our equipment, however, in the event we decide to own and operate our own earthmoving equipment fleet, then the maintenance of that fleet will be carried out in the workshops located within the Field Camp. Should we decide to own and operate an earth moving equipment fleet, at that time we will plan for some re-tooling and re-equipping of our workshops to suit the equipment that we anticipate being utilized for our mining operations. If our company decides to make use of a mining contractor to carry out the earth moving at our Kwabeng, Pameng and Apapam Projects, then we anticipate leasing the workshops to the contractor as part of the contract.
Capital Expenditures
To commence full scale production at the Kwabeng, Pameng and Apapam Projects, with a view to maximizing revenues, we anticipate capital requirements of approximately $2,500,000 as set out below:
(1)
This capital cost contemplates the purchase of mining equipment, which includes bull dozers, excavators and a front end loader , and will be reduced by $1,500,000 in the event that we decide to lease such equipment through third parties.
XG Mining has rehabilitated the Field Camp which included installation of a communication system for Internet access, electronic mail, telephone and facsimile service and minor construction repairs.
Since completion of our Bulk Test, we commenced the recovery of gold from the mineralized material at our Kwabeng Project on April 24, 2007.
- 18 -
Banso and Muoso Projects
Our Banso and Muoso Projects consist of two concessions totaling 107.32 sq km. We hold one prospecting license, as more particularly described hereunder, for the Banso and Muoso concessions which are situated in the Eastern Region of Ghana approximately 80 kilometers north of Accra. These concessions lie in the Kibi-Winneba Gold Belt on the western flanks of the prominent Atewa Range, which is underlain by Birimian greenstone, phyllites, meta-tuffs, epi-diorite, meta-greywacke and chert. The valleys, over which the concessions are located, are underlain by thick sequences of Birimian metasediments. The north-western end of the Atewa Range is the type-locality for the Birimian metasediments and metavolcanics.
This area is one of the oldest placer gold mining areas of Ghana, dating back many centuries. Historical exploration and mining has mainly focused on placer gold. Prior to our acquisition of the Banso and Muoso concessions, to the best of our knowledge and based on mining records in Ghana, there has never been a detailed documented bedrock exploration program conducted on these concessions.
Our Banso and Muoso Project is at an early stage of evaluation and no mineralized material or reserve estimates have been made. The present exploration activities on these concessions, including grid establishment, soil sampling, prospecting/geological mapping, pitting/trenching and geophysics, are aimed at identifying lode gold (hardrock) mineral occurrences to be further evaluated through drilling. We have completed preliminary lode gold exploration programs at our Banso and Muoso Project and have received the respective results as noted hereunder.
Access and Location
Access to the Muoso Concession is gained by driving northwest approximately 80 km from Accra on the paved Accra-Kumasi Trunk Road. This highway passes through the easternmost portion of the Muoso concession and shares a common boundary with the Kwabeng Concession. From the town of Osino, one would drive northwest approximately 5 km to the town of Anyinam, from which an all weather direct road heads south through the centre of the Muoso Concession and onto the Banso Concession, approximately 15 km south of the Accra-Kumasi Trunk Road. The town of Muoso is approximately 10 km from Anyinam. A number of dirt roads, trails and footpaths offer additional access to this concession. Our Project is located approximately 10 km south-southeast from our Field Camp.
Access to the Banso Concession is gained by driving northwest approximately 136 km from Accra on the paved Accra-Kumasi Trunk Road. Our Project is located approximately 11 km south-southwest from our Field Camp.
Banso and Muoso Prospecting License
Our wholly-owned subsidiary, XGEL entered into a prospecting license with the Government of Ghana on September 24, 2001 covering a licensed area of 107.32 sq km (the “Banso and Muoso Licensed Area”). The current term of the prospecting license has been extended to October 13, 2009 on approval by the Minerals Commission of Ghana (“Min Com”). A further application for renewal of the prospecting license, requires our submission of (i) a comprehensive terminal report, including logs of pits and assay results; (ii) a detailed financial report; (iii) a site plan indicating the areas to be retained and those to be shed off; (iv) evidence of annual ground rent payments; and (v) an environmental permit from the EPA. Under the prospecting license, we have been granted the right and license by the Government of Ghana to conduct geological and geophysical investigations in the licensed area to determine adequate quantity of geologically proven and mineable reserve of gold and diamonds (directly or through agents, contractors or sub-contractors). The terms and conditions of the prospecting license include, among other things, our requirement to (i) conduct a preliminary pitting program (Phase I); (ii) conduct a reserve definition program (Phase II); and (iii) prepare an engineering/feasibility report (Phase III); (iv) provide an annual report in prescribed form within 60 days after each calendar year to various mining regulatory bodies and government authorities (collectively, the “Authorities”). We have the right to (i) assign or mortgage our interest in the prospecting license, subject to obtaining the consent of the Government of Ghana who may impose certain conditions in connection therewith; (ii) surrender our interest in the prospecting license; and (iii) renew the term of the prospecting license for a period of two years or such other renewal
- 19 -
period may be granted in accordance with applicable mining laws of Ghana. The Government of Ghana has the right to terminate the prospecting license in the event we (i) fail to make payments when due; (ii) contravene or fail to comply with terms and conditions of the prospecting license; (iii) become insolvent or commit an act of bankruptcy; or (iv) submit false statements to the Government of Ghana. In any of the foregoing events, we have 21 days in which to remedy any of these occurrences. If upon expiration of prospecting license, we have fulfilled our obligations and have established to the Government of Ghana that development of a mine from ore reserves established within the licensed area is economical and financially feasible, the Government of Ghana shall grant us with first option to (i) acquire a lease for purposes of mining in the licensed area of the Banso and Muoso Project; and ii) participate in a mining project in the licensed area, subject to negotiation with the Government of Ghana of satisfactory terms for such license and participation.
Regional Exploration Program
On July 4, 2004, we commenced the first exploration stage on these concessions with fieldwork ending on August 23, 2004. We contracted with CME to conduct the exploration program. Fieldwork included stream sediment sampling, line cutting, GPS surveying of the grid and soil sampling. Acquisition and interpretation of airborne geophysical data and satellite imagery was also undertaken.
Results
Results from the first phase of exploration evidenced a bedrock gold source within both the Banso and Muoso concessions. Silt sampling indicated significant gold values, with soil sampling showing several significant anomalous zones. The gold-in-soil anomalies appear to correlate with an interpreted contact between the Birimian volcanoclastics and metasediments.
Further Exploration Work
On April 27, 2005, we further contracted with CME to conduct a second stage exploration program at our Banso and Muoso Project located at the Banso and Muoso concessions. The work program included detailed grid establishment and soil sampling, ground magnetometer surveying, updating the geodatabase and recommendations for future work. The purpose of this program was to determine areas of gold mineralization at the Banso and Muoso concessions that can be followed up with induced polarization surveys, trenching and diamond drilling.
Fieldwork included the following:
Grid Establishment
Grid placement was based on the results from the 2004 regional work program. Four grids were established in the areas of primary interest, one on the Muoso concession and three on the Banso concession. The grids on the latter concession are referred to as Area 1, Area 2 and Area 3.
Soil Sampling
Soil sampling was undertaken along all grid lines established during this work program. From the 6,961 established stations, 177 locations were not sampled due to possible contamination from villages, streams and/or swamps.
A total of 6,516 samples were submitted for gold and 6,066 samples for arsenic analyses. A breakdown of the gold results per property area includes:
- 20 -
Results, Interpretation and Conclusions
Soil sample geochemistry has been completed over selected portions of the anomalous zones indicated by the 2004 regional sampling program. Work during the 2005 program suggests the presence of a bedrock source within both the Muoso and Banso concessions.
Values greater than the threshold value (mean + 2 standard deviations) of 0.063 ppm gold are considered to be anomalous. The term “ppm” represents “part per million” where 1 ppm = 1 gram per tonne (g/t) = 1,000 part per billion (ppb). On the Muoso concession 284 samples (9%) out of the 3,318 samples submitted for gold analyses yielded values greater than the threshold value; while at Banso 152 samples (5%) out of the 3,198 samples submitted for gold analyses yielded values greater than the 0.063 ppm Au threshold value.
At the southwest boundary of the concession several gold-in-soil anomalies appear, the largest of which measures 350 meters in length and up to 300 meters in width. Immediately below this is an easterly trending anomaly with a strike length of approximately 300 meters and a width of approximately 75 meters.
At Muoso the most significant gold-in-soil anomalies occur along the inferred location of the northeast-southwest trending dolerite dyke. Secondary anomalies occur to the east of this dyke and are oriented sub-parallel to the strike of the dyke. These may represent possible structural events (shears/faults) lying along geological contacts (planes of weakness). In the southwest portion of the grid, a possible north-south to northwest-southeast trending gold anomaly is coincident with inferred faulting in similar directions. In the southwestern area of the Muoso grid, two of the arsenic anomalies flank the sides of the north-south trending gold anomaly.
At Banso, each of the three grids outlined two gold-in-soil anomalies. The Area I anomalies trend northwest-southeast and occur at the junction of cross cutting structures. Within Area 2 and 3, linear gold anomalies trend northeast-southwest, parallel to the regional geological trend. The western most gold anomaly in Area 3 flanks the margins of a strong magnetic high (possible intrusive). Arsenic anomalies at Banso typically occur on hill/ridge tops with the gold anomalies flanking the sides of the arsenic anomalies.
The soil sampling program at Banso was successful in locating a number of gold-in-soil anomalies (> 0.063 ppm Au), the most significant of these is located about 400 meters NE of Abesim Township (i.e. Area 3). This anomalous zone has an average width of about 50 meters and a length of about 500 meters and follows the northeasterly regional geological trend.
Recommendations
The following staged exploration program was recommended to further advance the geological knowledge of the concessions:
●
An estimated 200 kilometers of grid to be cut at Muoso and Banso. This will include the extension of selected existing lines and the establishment of new ones. In addition, soil sampling, geochemical analysis, GPS and ground magnetometer surveys should be conducted on the newly established grid lines.
●
A grid should be established within the eastern areas of the Muoso concession, and soil samples collected, to follow up on anomalous silt samples taken in the previous sample program.
●
At Banso, a grid should be cut within the northern portion to cover those areas that returned anomalous silt samples. Additional soil sampling is proposed to confirm and further define the anomalous area.
●
Auger sampling to depths of 2.5 meters should be conducted on both concessions testing sites that returned greater than 0.1 ppm gold in soils.
●
Trenches are recommended at selected sites at both concessions to investigate gold-in-soil anomalies and the relationship the anomalies have to geology/structure. An estimated 300 meters of trenching, to 3.0 meter depth, is recommended.
●
Approximately 50 line kilometers of surface IP surveying may be carried out on priority areas as identified in previous sampling/work programs.
- 21 -
Phase II Exploration Program
We entered into a Phase II exploration contract in September 2006 with CME incorporating some of the above recommendations, including additional grid establishment, soil geochemical surveying, and prospecting on the Muoso concession; and a pitting/trenching program designed to test the geochemical signature at depth of the three primary gold-in-soil anomalies detected on the Banso concession by the Phase I exploration program (i.e. Banso Area 1, 2, 3).
The work program for this project was completed in December 2006 at a cost of approximately $200,000. The results of this program are noted hereunder.
The Phase II exploration program commenced on September 27, 2006 with fieldwork ending December 2, 2006 on the Muoso and Banso Concessions. Work included the following:
●
Grid establishment (Muoso Concession): 67.4 line-km;
●
Soil sampling: 2,338 samples collected, 1,438 sample submitted for gold analysis;
●
Rock sampling: 177 samples;
●
GPS surveying: 67.4 km;
●
Trenching and pitting (Banso Concession): 4 trenches (80.2 meters) and 61 pits, 183 horizontal channel samples, 197 vertical channel samples, 24 rock samples.
Muoso Concession Soil and Rock Sampling
(A)
Grid Layout / Soil Sampling Methodology
The present soil sampling program encompasses a combined semi-detailed (200m) and detailed (100m) soil sampling grid (67.4 km) covering the eastern 5.5 km portion of the Muoso concession. Grid placement was designed to cover the Birimian volcanic-sediment contact and an inferred NE - trending regional structure; which we believe represent highly favorable environments for the hosting of lode gold deposits throughout Ghana.
A total of 2,338 soil samples were collected from all cross lines with 1,438 samples submitted for gold analyses. All samples collected from the 100 meter spaced lines were submitted for analysis. Along 200 meter spaced lines, every second sample was submitted for analysis. The held back samples may be submitted at a later date to bracket any anomalous samples. Rock sampling was undertaken concurrent with the soil sampling program. A total of 166 rock samples were collected at Muoso with sample collection typically confined to the immediate vicinity of grid lines.
(B)
Soil / Rock Sampling Results
Soil sampling from the current program extended the grid to the east and identified significant geochemical anomalies over this portion of the concession. Values greater than the threshold value (mean + 2 standard deviations) of 0.10 ppm gold are considered to be anomalous. The term “ppm” represents “part per million” where 1 ppm = 1 gram per tonne (g/t) = 1,000 part per billion (ppb). 152 samples (11%) out of the 1,438 samples submitted for gold analyses yielded values greater than the 0.10 ppm gold threshold value; including 53 samples (4%) returning values greater than 0.20 ppm gold. Contouring of the gold in soil results suggests an “S-fold” geochemical anomaly (> 0.10 ppm Au) in the very eastern part of the concession.
Rock sampling in the northern portion of the anomaly (around the highway) returned no significant results. The geochemical anomaly here is located in the valley of the Birim River and may be an alluvial (paleoplacer) occurrence.
- 22 -
Three (3) rock samples collected in the southern part of the anomaly yielded anomalous gold values from oxidized quartz and phyllite floats. These rock floats are located up on the hillsides in the soil anomaly, well out of any obvious alluvial influence, thus indicating the potential for lode gold mineralization in the vicinity.
A second linear anomaly (> 0.10 ppm Au) is present, extending 4.5 km in an ESE direction from 9000E/18800N to 12750E/21200N. The anomaly is narrow (100 to 150 meters) and tends to occasionally pinch-out. Airborne geophysical and LANDSAT interpretation (Naas, 2004) identifies a possible correlating ESE-trending structure (fault?) although it requires extending that structure to the east. Another interpreted structure, trending SE may intersect the aforementioned structure in the area of the previously described geochemical anomaly.
Banso Pitting / Trenching Program
(A)
Pit / Trench Program Design and Sampling Methodology
A pitting - trenching program was carried out to test the geochemical signature at depth of the three primary gold-in-soil anomalies detected on the Banso concession by the Phase I exploration program (i.e. Banso Area 1, 2, 3). Single sample anomalies were pitted, while two or more continuous soil sample anomalies were trenched.
Pits were dug manually by pickaxes and shovels; with pit dimensions typically being 1 meter wide by 2 meters long by 3 meters deep. Two horizontal samples and three vertical samples were collected from all the pits that reached the saprolite. Only vertical samples were collected from pits that did not reach saprolite. Grab and chip samples were also collected from quartz veins and veinlets. A total of 305 samples were collected from 61 pits excavated according to the following distribution in the Area 1, 2, and 3 gold-in-soil anomalies.
●
25 pits (125 samples) from Area 1;
●
13 pits (65 samples) from Area 2; and
●
23 pits (115 samples) from Area 3.
Trenches were also dug manually to a width of one meter and an average depth of 3.0 meters. The four trenches excavated on the Area 3 anomaly consisted of one 50 meter trench and three 10 meter trenches. All trenches encountered saprolite. A total of 80 horizontal samples were collected at 1 meter intervals approximately 0.20 meter above the trench floor.
(B)
Pitting / Trenching and Rock Sampling Results
The current pitting - trenching program tested the gold-in-soil anomalies in the subsurface, preferably in the saprolite horizon.
Area 1 / Area 2
Two pits out of the 25 pits excavated in Area 1 and one pit out of the 13 pits in Area 2 returned anomalous gold results. But these anomalous values reflect auriferous quartz gravels of probable alluvial provenance.
Area 3
Pitting - trenching and surface rock sampling in the eastern portion of the Area 3 grid returned exploration - significant results indicative of potential lode gold mineralization in the vicinity.
- 23 -
Vertical sampling in Pit 3P2 returned a length weighted average grade of 1.36 ppm Au over 1.70 meters and horizontal sampling yielded a length weighted average grade of 1.69 ppm Au over 2.10 meters. The term “ppm” represents “part per million” where 1 ppm = 1 gram per tonne (g/t) = 1,000 part per billion (ppb). A 0.4 meter channel sample across a vein present in this pit returned 0.75 ppm Au. Pit 3P6 returned exploration - significant results of 1.91 ppm over 1.00 meters (vertical) and 1.74 ppm Au over 1.00 meters (horizontal). The former is from the upper (near-surface) horizon. The latter appears associated with quartz veining observed in the saprolite. Quartz veins were mapped in many pits and are generally associated with the anomalous gold values, though the converse is not necessarily true.
The four trenches (3T1 to 3T4) were excavated along a single line (1400N) between 11570E and 11680E. Eleven samples (14%) out of the 80 channel samples (1 meter) collected from the four (4) trenches yielded anomalous gold values (> 0.10 ppm Au). Trench sampling returned similar sub economic but exploration - significant results as with the pits. Trench 3T4 yielded a length weighted average grade of 0.41 ppm Au over 4.0 meters; with the mineralization appearing to be associated with a quartz vein oriented at 324 (degree)/30 (degree) E. A similar modest mineralized zone in 3T3 of 0.16 ppm Au over 4.00 meters is associated with a quartz vein stringer zone oriented similarly at 315 (degree)/30 (degree) E. In 3T2, a zone returning 0.29 ppm Au over 2.00 meters appears associated with veins oriented at 220 (degree)/50-58 (degree) W. Structural understanding based on the limited vein exposure precludes any conclusions at this point.
Rock sampling (11 samples) in the vicinity of the trenches and pits returned three (3) anomalous gold values from massive quartz boulders. This suggests a potential lode source for gold in this area.
(C)
Recommendations
Recommended work to further advance the project includes:
(I)
The gold-in-soil anomalies of the Muoso Concession should be pitted and trenched where consecutive anomalies exist;
(II)
A total of 10 kilometers of soil sampling is recommended at the Banso Concession. This includes the extension of selected existing lines and the establishment of new ones; and
(III)
Rock sampling should continue throughout the Concessions.
2008 Banso - Muoso Target Follow Up Program
Exploration work on the Banso-Muoso prospecting license during the 2008 reporting period was aimed at advancing the lode gold targets produced by the Phase I (2005) and Phase II (2006) work programs. Work focused on the further evaluation of the Banso Area 3 and Ankaase gold-in-soil anomalies located at the southern extremity of the Banso, and eastern extremity of the Muoso concessions, respectively.
The Banso concession was subjected to manual trenching and soil geochemistry on an intermittent basis from late November 2007 to May 2008, while hand auger sampling and trenching programs were implemented at the Muoso concession on an intermittent basis from February to November, 2008. All geotechnical field work such as mapping and sampling was conducted in-house by XGEL personnel. Grid establishment (line cutting) and manual trench excavation was conducted on a contract basis by Amofah and Associates of Accra and Andaco Enterprises Limited of Kwabeng, respectively.
All gold results for the following exploration programs are reported in “ppm Au” (part per million gold). The term “ppm” represents “part per million” where 1 ppm = 1 gram per tonne (g/t) = 1,000 part per billion (ppb).
Further exploration activities for the Banso-Muoso concessions will be planned once an ongoing geological, geochemical and geophysical data compilation has been completed.
- 24 -
Banso Concession Exploration Activities
Banso Area 3 Trenching
Three hand-dug trenches totaling 138 meters were excavated on the Banso Area 3 gold-in-soil anomaly located at the southeastern extremity of the Banso concession. Trenches Nos. TAB001 to TAB003 were excavated in a north-south direction, across the Phase II (2006) trenching located along the L1400N gold-in-soil anomaly, to test the subsurface expression of an extensive ENE-trending quartz float train discovered during prospecting. Trenches TAB002 and TAB003 form a continuous trench extending over a 112 meter length. A total of 69 horizontal channel samples were collected at 2 metre intervals, with shorter samples utilized in areas of geological interest (i.e. quartz veining).
Trenches TAB002 - TAB003 exposed a system of intermittent, ENE-trending, quartz veining extending over a 80 meter trench-length, including a 10 meter zone encompassing three parallel quartz veins ranging from 0.25 meters to 0.35 meters in width, within the northern portion of TAB002. Two of the quartz veins yielded significant gold values of 4.64 ppm and 7.67 ppm over true-widths of 0.25 meters and 0.28 meters, respectively. The TAB002-TAB003 trench yielded intermittent, anomalous gold values over it’s entire 112 meter length. Including exploration significant intervals of 0.19 ppm gold over 46 meters and 0.22 ppm gold over 16 meters.
Banso Area 3 Soil Sampling
The Banso Area 3 gold-in-soil anomaly was covered by a new, detailed (100 m), north-south oriented, soil geochemistry grid designed to better define the ENE-trending, gold-bearing quartz vein system discovered in trenches TAB002 and TAB003. A total of 460 soil samples were collected at 25 meter intervals along the 12.625 line-kilometers of cross lines. Including the Regional Exploration (2004) and Phase II (2005) work programs a total of 1,702 soil samples have been collected on the Banso Area 3 grid.
The anomalous threshold for the soil sample results was set at 0.05 ppm gold based on past work experience in the Kibi Belt. 205 (12%) out of the 1,702 soil samples returned gold values greater than the 0.05 ppm anomalous threshold, including: 43 (2.5%) samples over 0.25 ppm; 22 (1.3%) samples over 0.50 ppm; and 14 (0.8%) samples over 1.0 ppm gold.
The combined soil geochemistry surveys outlined three parallel, ENE-trending, gold-in-soil anomalous trends across a 600 meter distance. The gold-in-soil anomalies (> 0.05 ppm Au), ranging from 50 meter to 150 meter in width, tend to be patchy in nature and / or pinch-out along their 600 meter to 1,500 meter trend-extents. The northernmost anomalous trend exhibits a good correlation with the quartz vein system identified in trenches TAB002-TAB003.
Muoso Concession Exploration Activities
Ankaase Trend Auger Sampling
As a follow up to the Phase II (2006) soil geochemistry survey, a hand-auger program was implemented on the Ankaase gold-in-soil anomaly located at the eastern extremity of the Muoso concession. The auger sampling was designed to test the geochemical signature of the gold-in-soil anomalies at depth within the saprolite horizon in order to better define trenching targets. A total of 99 sites, totaling 371 linear-meters, were augered to an average depth of approximately 3.75 meters (5m max.). A one (1) meter sample was collected from the saprolite horizon at the bottom of each hole. Auger hole spacing was typically at 25 meters, with some 12.5 meter infilling.
The anomalous threshold for the auger sample results was set at 0.10 ppm gold based on past work experience in the Kibi Belt. 21 (21%) out of the 99 auger samples returned gold values greater than the 0.10 ppm anomalous threshold; including 4 samples over 0.5 ppm and a maximum value of 2.46 ppm. The auger sampling proved to be an efficient trench target definition method.
Ankaase Trend Trenching Program
The 2008 scout trenching program encompassed 19 hand dug trenches, ranging from 8 meters to 236 meters in length and from 1.5 meters to 3.5 meters in depth, and totaling 805 linear meters. The reconnaissance trenching was designed to test the geochemical signature at depth, within the in situ saprolite (oxidized rock) horizon, of the southern half (1.4 km) of the extensive Ankaase Gold Trend; an over 3.5 km long, NE-trending, anomalous gold-in-soil trend characterized by the widespread occurrence of auriferous quartz floats.
- 25 -
This initial reconnaissance trenching program yielded very encouraging results and confirmed that the extensive Ankaase gold-in-soil trend is spatially associated with a typical “Ashanti” style shear zone setting developed proximal to a Birimian metavolcanic-metasediment contact with associated Belt granitoids.
A total of 511 horizontal channel samples were collected from a canal excavated along the bottom sidewall of the trench (~ 0.10m above floor). Samples were typically 2 metres in length, with shorter (1 m) samples utilized in areas of geological interest (i.e. quartz veining). 85 (17%) out of the 511 channel samples returned gold values greater than 0.5 ppm, including: 52 (10%) samples over 1.0 ppm; and 20 (4%) samples over 3.0 ppm gold.
Nine (9) out of the 19 trenches yielded significant gold intercepts as presented in Table 1; with an additional seven (7) trenches yielding anomalous, exploration significant gold values; and three (3) trenches failing to return any anomalous gold values.
Table 1: Significant Trench Specifications - Ankaase Gold Trend
(1)
Reported intercepts are trench-lengths; true width of mineralization is unknown at this time.
(2)
The term “ppm” represents “part per million” where 1 ppm = 1 gram per tonne (g/t).
Note:
Trenches #TMU003, 011, 012, 013, 014, 017 and 108 yielded anomalous, exploration significant gold value. Trenches #TMU006, 007 and 009 yielded no anomalous gold values.
Trenching to date has intermittently traced an approximately 150 meter to 200 meter wide, NE-trending deformation zone over an approximately 1.4 km strike length. This structural corridor is characterized by several sub parallel, shear hosted, gold-bearing quartz vein zones ranging from less than 1 meter to approximately 24 meters in trench length; with individual quartz veins ranging from less than 1 cm to 5.5 meters in trench length. A granitoid body exhibiting widespread, low grade gold mineralization (0.43 ppm gold over 62 meters) exposed within trench TMU005 at the southwestern extremity of the Ankaase Gold Trend is also of significant exploration interest.
- 26 -
Additional trenching and geophysics are planned to better define the structural controls of the known mineralization and to test the northern half (approximately 1.7 km) of the over 3.5 km long Ankaase Gold Trend.
No ore reserves have been identified on the Banso and Muoso Projects.
The Apapam Project
Access and Location
Our Apapam Project concession lies within the Kibi-Winneba area in the Eastern Region of Ghana and is located on the eastern flank of the Atewa Range along the headwaters of the Birim River in the immediate vicinity of the district capital of Kibi, approximately 75 km NNW of the nation’s capital city of Accra. Access to our Apapam Project is by driving northwest from Accra on the paved Accra-Kumasi Trunk Road which is the main national highway for approximately 90 km until the town of Kibi, marked by a road sign, is reached. One would make a left hand turn at the Kibi sign and drive southwest for approximately 5 km to arrive at our Apapam concession. A tarred road emanating from the Accra-Kumasi Trunk Road approximately 15 km northeast of Kibi dissects the north-central and south-eastern portions of our concession, while the tarred road servicing the town of Apapam provides access to the concession’s south-western extremity. Our Apapam Project is located approximately 20 km south-southeast from our Field Camp.
The Kibi-Winneba area is characterized by a narrow sequence of Birimian metavolcanics underlying most of the Atewa Range, which is covered by an extensive laterite/bauxite capping, and surrounded by a thick package of Birimian metasediments dominating the flanks and the lower lying areas. Our Apapam Project covers the Birimian volcanic-sediment contact which we believe represents a highly favorable environment for the hosting of lode gold deposits throughout Ghana.
Prior to the exploration work conducted by our company as noted hereunder, very little systematic exploration work for bedrock gold deposits has been conducted in the Kibi area since the 1930s.
Phase I Exploration Program
A first phase exploration program was implemented by geological consultant CME on the Apapam concession from August 12 to September 23, 2006. The Phase I exploration program undertaken in 2006 consisted of regional stream sediment sampling, followed by gridded soil sampling, rock sampling and detailed sampling of several adits located 400 meters northwest of Kibi. The work program for this Project was completed at a cost of approximately $100,000. The results of this program are noted hereunder.
In addition, a reconnaissance geology / prospecting program covering the west-central portion of the Apapam concession was also intermittently implemented by the Xtra-Gold exploration staff from November 2006 to February 2007. The results to date from the various surveys show very promising evidence for the presence of a bedrock gold source within the Apapam concession.
Phase I fieldwork consisted of the following
●
Concession-wide stream sediment sampling survey (88 samples collected from 44 sites);
●
Survey grid establishment (33.78 line-km);
●
Soil sampling (1,306 samples);
●
GPS surveying (33.78 line-km);
●
Rock sampling (89 samples); and
●
Historical adit and bulldozer cut sampling (100 samples).
- 27 -
Stream Sediment Sampling
A total of 88 samples were collected from 44 sample sites from two major streams and their respective tributaries; including 44 silt samples for geochemical analysis (BLEG) and 44 pan concentrate samples for visual gold grain counts.
Values greater than the threshold value (mean + 2 standard deviations) of 0.14 ppm are considered to be anomalous. Five (5) samples (11%) yielded values greater than the threshold value. Gold grain count of the pan concentrates showed visible gold grains in 36 of the 44 samples (82%); with the average gold grain count per sample being five (5) small grains.
The stream sediment anomalies are divided into two zones as follows:
Zone A (Adansu Anomaly): Consists of 1.5 km stretch from Line 158+00N westwards at an average width of 1.0 km along the northwestern boundary of the concession
Zone B (Kokorabo Anomaly): Consists of 3.0 km stretch by 2.0 km in width to cover the area between the southwestern boundary of the concession and the floodplains of river Birim and river Krensen
Soil Sampling Survey
A total of 1,306 soil samples were collected from 30.58 line - kilometers of cross lines established within the Kibi North and Kibi South survey grids. Grid location was based on testing historical mineral occurrences located on and around Kibi Mountain (Kibi North Grid) and promising silt samples results from creeks southeast of Kibi (Kibi South Grid). Line spacing was 100-meter interval within the Kibi Mountain area of the North Grid and 400 meters elsewhere within the gridded areas. Soil samples were collected at a depth of 60 cm at 25 meter intervals along the SE - NW trending grid lines. Soil samples were by analyzed by Fire Assay and reported in parts per billion (1 ppb = 0.001 ppm). The term “ppm” represents “part per million” where 1 ppm = 1 gram per tonne (g/t) = 1,000 part per billion (ppb).
The geochemical soil survey conducted on the Apapam concession produced several interesting gold-in-soil anomalies that are listed below. A geochemical trend of 050-060 (degree) (ENE-WSW) is in conformity with the regional geological trend. Values greater than the threshold value (mean plus 2 standard deviations) of 0.098 ppm gold are considered to be anomalous. A total of 105 samples (8% out of the 1,306 samples submitted for analysis produced gold-in-soil values greater than the threshold value of 0.098 ppm gold.
Area 1: The area consists of the following 50 meter to 125 meter wide anomalous zones extending over a minimum 200 meter distance on three (3) adjacent grid lines. The limits of this anomaly located on the northwestern flank of Kibi Mountain are well defined by the present soil survey.
●
L163+00N, from 51+75E to 52+75E (100 meters), 5 samples average 0.12 ppm Au
●
L164+00N, from 51+75E to 53+00E (125 meters), 6 samples averaging 0.25 ppm Au
●
L165+00N, from 52+75E to 53+25E (50 meters), 3 samples averaging 0.21 ppm Au
Area 2: The area is defined by three (3) 125 meter to 250 meter wide anomalous zones extending over a 600 meter distance on the following three (3) grid lines. Further detailed soil sampling is required to well define limits of the area.
●
L166+00N, from 39+75E to 42+25E (250 meters), 11 samples averaging 0.27 ppm Au
●
L170+00N, from 44+00E to 45+75E (175 meters), 8 samples averaging 0.41 ppm Au
●
L172+00N, from 45+75E to 47+00E (125 meters), 6 samples averaging 0.30 ppm Au
- 28 -
Area 3: This area consists of a single 225 meter wide gold-in-soil anomalous zone extending from 42+75E to 45+00E on L 158+00N (10 samples averaging 0.23 ppm Au). Further detailed soil sampling is required to well define limits of the area.
Area 4: This area consists of a single 100 meter wide gold-in-soil anomalous zone extending from 41+00E to 42+00E on L 170+00N (5 samples averaging 0.18 ppm Au). Further detailed soil sampling is required to well define limits of the area.
Rock and Historical Adit Sampling
A total of 89 rock (float) samples were collected during stream sediment and soil sampling traversing. In addition, three historical adits ranging from 7 to 85 meters in length and a bedrock face exposed along a bulldozer cut, located on and in the vicinity of Kibi Mountain were also sampled during the Apapam Phase I exploration program. A total of 77 channel samples were collected from the three adits and 23 samples from the bulldozer cut face. Rock and adit samples were analyzed by Fire Assay and reported in parts per billion (1 ppb = 0.001 ppm). Rock and adit samples returning greater than 1,000 ppb (1.0 ppm) gold were re-analyzed by Fire Assay with results reported in grams per metric tonne (1 g/t = 1.0 ppm). The term “ppm” represents “part per million” where 1 ppm = 1 gram per tonne (g/t) = 1,000 part per billion (ppb).
Seven (8%) out of the 89 rock (float) samples returned anomalous gold values greater than the threshold value (mean + 2 standard deviations). Three adits and a bulldozer cut were located and sampled during the current exploration program. Adit 1 was extensively sampled but no significant values reported. Adit 2 has indicated potential for lode gold mineralization in the Kibi Mountain area. Three (3) channel samples collected in this adit returned a length weighted average grade of 3.47 ppm Au over 3.80 meters; including 6.36 ppm over 1.7 meters. Adit 2 falls within the Area 1 gold-in- soil anomaly. No significant values were returned from Adit 3, although sampling was not able to reach the end of the adit due to unsafe ground conditions. The channel sampling (23 samples) of the bedrock face exposed in the bulldozer cut on the southwest side of Kibi Mountain returned a single anomalous value of 1.52 ppm Au over a 1.00 meter length.
Reconnaissance Geology / Prospecting Program
A reconnaissance geology / prospecting program covering the west-central portion of the Apapam concession was intermittently implemented by the Xtra-Gold exploration staff from November 2006 to February 2007. The program was initiated to follow-up on the anomalous gold-in-silt sample results returned by the 2006 concession-wide stream sediment sampling program (i.e. Zone A-Adansu Anomaly).
The reconnaissance program identified a 150 meter long, NW - trending gold anomalous float train located approximately 400m west-northwest of the anomalous gold-in-silt sample yielded by the Adansu stream. The rock floats typically consist of strongly silicified metavolcanic cross-cut by sheeted to stockworked quartz stringers exhibiting disseminated boxworks after pyrite.
An historical rock pit was also located within the west-central portion of the concession. Grab samples collected from sheared quartz-iron carbonate veining within the 3.5 meter deep pit returned anomalous gold values. This auriferous vein occurrence is located approximately 550 meters west-northwest of the open-ended Area 3 gold-in-soil anomaly described in the above Soil Sampling section.
Recommendations
Recommended work to further advance the project includes: (a) reconnaissance soil sample gridding for the evaluation of the two (2) anomalous areas defined by the stream sediment sampling, and the auriferous float train and rock pit areas identified during the in-house reconnaissance geology program; (b) and detailed soil sampling and / or pitting-trenching to further define the limits of the four (4) gold-in-soil anomalies and to test their geochemical signature at depth.
Phase II Exploration Program
A reconnaissance trenching program was intermittently implemented by the Xtra- Gold exploration staff from February 2007 to December 2007 on the Apapam concession. The trenching was carried out to test the geochemical signature at depth of the gold-in-soil anomalies detected within the north-western portion of the concession during the Phase I work program and to obtain additional geological / structural information in order to optimize the design of detailed trenching and drilling targets. A total of 542 channel samples were collected from 21 trenches totaling 1,090 linear-meters.
- 29 -
In order to obtain an independent assessment of the 2007 Xtra-Gold trenching results, a National Instrument 43-101 compliant data verification program was undertaken by CME Consultants Inc. (“CME”) from December 3 to 7, 2007. The program involved the resampling of selected trenches which yielded exploration-significant gold mineralization intervals. CME is a Canada-based geological consultancy with over 15 years of project management experience in Ghana. The Apapam data validation program was implemented under the direct supervision of a professional geologist registered with the Association of Professional Engineers and Geoscientists of British Columbia. The trenching program results noted hereunder correspond to the results returned by the independent CME data verification program.
Trenching; Methodoly / Targets
A total of 21 trenches ranging from 2 meters to 224 meters in length were excavated by Xtra-Gold personnel within the north-western portion of the Apapam concession during the 2007 reconnaissance trenching program. A total of 542 channel samples (2 meters) were collected from the 21 trenches totaling 1,090 linear-meters. Trenches were manually excavated by pickaxes and shovels to a typical width of 1 meter and an average depth of 3 meters, with some sections of the trenches reaching 4.0 meters in depth. Trenching typically extended down to the saprolite horizon but locally the saprolite could not be reached due to safety concerns. Trench specifications are presented in Table 1 below
The bulk of the trenching efforts, including 8 trenches totaling 834 linear-meters (approx. 75%), focused on testing the Area #1, #2, and #3 gold-in-soil anomalies detected during the 2006 Phase I work program. Five (5) trenches totaling 112 meters were excavated to test the subsurface along the train of gold anomalous rock floats encountered during the November 2006 reconnaissance geology / prospecting program (i.e. Ahwiniase Area). An additional 8 trenches totaling 144 meters were excavated to test the subsurface in the general area of the historical rock pit also discovered during said prospecting program (i.e. Adadietem Area).
Table 1: Trench Specifications - Apapam Concession
Note:
Trenches #TAD001 and #TAD004 extend from a common point of origin in opposite directions resulting in one continuous trench.
- 30 -
(ii)
Trenching Results / CME Data Verification Program
Based on past work experience in Ghana, the Xtra-Gold geological personnel arbitrarily established channel sample intervals yielding weighted average grades greater than 1.0 ppm gold has been exploration significant. The term “ppm” represents “part per million” where 1 ppm = 1 gram per tonne (g/t) = 1,000 part per billion (ppb). Nevertheless, anomalous channel sample results below the 1.0 ppm gold threshold remain of considerable exploration interest and will be subjected to further investigation. Sixty-one (61) out of the 542 channel samples (11%) yielded gold values greater than the 1.0 ppm exploration-significant threshold.
Four (4) out of the 21 trenches yielded length-weighted average grade intervals greater than the arbitrarily set exploration - significant threshold of 1.0 ppm gold, including: trench #TKB003 in gold-in-soil anomaly Area #1 (i.e. Kibi Mountain); trenches #TKB004 and #TKB005 in gold-in-soil anomaly Area #2; and trench #TAD001 in the Adadietem Area.
The independent data verification program undertaken by CME from December 3 to 7, 2007 encompassed the complete resampling of the exploration-significant intervals (= 1.0 ppm Au)from the four (4) above noted trenches. The CME resampling included 116 channel samples totaling 115.41 linear meters. Sampling consisted of a horizontal channel cut along the sidewall of the trench, approximately 0.2 meters above the trench floor. Sampling was typically established at one meter intervals, with sample lengths locally adjusted to accommodate geological features.
Forty-six (46) out of the 116 channel samples (39.5%) collected by CME returned values greater than 1.0 ppm gold. Exploration - significant gold intervals (= 1 ppm Au) from the independent data validation program are presented in Table 2. Note that all the weighted average grade intervals represent trench lengths and are not necessarily indicative of the true widths of the mineralization. Calculation of true widths within trenches can be difficult, as not all geological features are properly exposed. In addition, these mineralized intervals currently represent isolated features for which no strike extension can be measured due to the relatively long distances between the trenches; additional infill soil sampling and trenching is required to define the actual strike length of the mineralization.
At Apapam, gold mineralization has been found to occur in several different geological features, including steeply and flat - lying quartz veins and alteration haloes proximate to the quartz veining. The presence of shallow dipping (“flat lying”) veins may produce an exaggeration in both the width and grade of the mineralization. The effect of shallow veining is apparent in trench #TKB004 where a 4.07 ppm gold grade over a 11.0 meter trench - length is estimated to represent a true width of 3 to 4 meters due to the flat lying nature of the quartz veins. As previously noted calculation of true widths within trenches can be difficult, as not all the geological features are properly exposed.
Table 2: Significant Trench Intersections - Apapam Concession
(1)
Apparent Width: Estimated to represent a true width of 3 to 4 meters based on shallow dipping (“flat lying”) nature of the quartz veining.
Note:
All intersections represent trench lengths and are not necessarily indicative of the true width of the mineralization.
- 31 -
Sample Analyses
Samples taken during the data verification program were analyzed at Eco Tech Laboratory Ltd., an ISO9001 registered laboratory located in British Columbia, Canada. Prepared samples are weighed to 30 grams and fused along with proper fluxing materials. The bead is digested in aqua regia and analyzed on an atomic absorption instrument. Values are reported in parts per billion (1 ppb = 0.001 ppm or 0.001 g/t). Samples returning greater than 500 ppb (0.5 ppm) gold were re-analysed by the metallic gold assay method. The purpose of this analysis was to determine if there was a “nugget effect” with the gold mineralization. The process involved taking minus 140 mesh fraction, homogenize it, then take 2 samples sub samples for gold fire assay. The plus 140 mesh material was assayed in its entirety. The resultant fire assay bead is digested with acid and after parting is analyzed on a Perkin Elmer atomic absorption machine using air-acetylene flame to 0.03 grams/tonne (0.03 ppm) detection limit. Results are collated by computer and are printed along with accompanying quality control data (repeats and standards).
2008 Kibi Gold Trend Follow-Up Program
Exploration work on the Apapam concession during the 2008 reporting period was aimed at advancing the lode gold targets identified within the the Kibi Gold Trend; an over 5.5 km long, NE-trending, anomalous gold-in-soil trend characterized by four (4) extensive, higher grade zones ranging from approximately 800 meters by 75-300 meters to 1,000 meters by 100-500 meters in area.
An extensive soil geochemistry survey covering approximately 47 line-kilometers (1,827 samples) was implemented in early 2008 to further define the extensive Kibi gold-in-soil trend. The entire Apapam grid was also covered by Induced Polarization (IP) / Resistivity (62 km) and ground magnetometer (79 km) surveys to help map the extent of the granitoid bodies spatially associated with the gold occurrences, and to provide information on the strike extent and attitude of the mineralized structures.
The 2008 Apapam trenching program encompassed 22 trenches totaling approximately 1,375 linear meters, including: 8 trenches (425 m) on Zone 2 (TKB006-013); and 14 trenches (950 m) on Zone 3 (TAD008-021) of the 5.5 km long Kibi gold-in-soil trend.
A “Phase I” scout drilling program encompassing 18 diamond drill holes, ranging from 60 meters to 320.5 meters in length, and totalling 3,001 linear meters was implemented on the Apapam concession from August 30 to October 28, 2008. This reconnaissance drilling was designed to test the depth continuity of gold mineralization discovered in trenches excavated on Zone 2 and Zone 1 of the Kibi Gold Trend.
This initial reconnaissance drilling program yielded very encouraging results and demonstrated that the granitoid-hosted gold mineralization occurrences intersected along the Kibi gold-in-soil trend offers potential for shallow oxide mineralization amenable to bulk mining and heap leaching, as well as large primary gold systems at depth.
All gold results for the following exploration programs are reported in “ppm Au” (part per million gold). The term “ppm” represents “part per million” where 1 ppm = 1 gram per tonne (g/t) = 1,000 part per billion (ppb).
Recommended work to further advance the project includes: (a) additional mechanical trenching to further define the geological / structural nature and extent of the granitoid-host gold mineralization in Zone 2 and 3; and (b) a 5,000 m combined reverse circulation / diamond drilling program. The estimated cost of the follow-up exploration program is approximately $800,000.
No ore reserves have been identified on the Apapam Project.
Apapam Grid Expansion
The Apapam grid was expanded to provide control for detail (100m) soil sampling coverage of the gold-in-soil anomalies yielded by the Phase I (2006) work program and the gold occurrences identified in the 2007 trenching, located at the northwestern extremity of the concession, and for reconnaissance (200m) soil sampling to follow-up on anomalous gold-in-silt samples identified in streams at the southwestern extremity of the property. A total of 54.45 line-kilometers of cross-lines and 2.1 kilometers of baselines were established. The expanded grid now covers the entire northwestern portion of the concession with a total of 78.8 line-kilometers of southeast trending cross-lines extending along a 6.1 kilometer baseline.
- 32 -
Soil Geochemistry Survey
An extensive soil geochemistry survey was undertaken on the Apapam concession to provide detailed (100m) soil sampling coverage of the gold-in-soil anomalies yielded by the Phase I (2006) work program and the gold occurrences identified in the 2007 trenching, located at the northwestern extremity of the concession, and for reconnaissance (200m) soil sampling to follow-up on anomalous gold-in-silt samples identified in streams at the southwestern extremity of property during the 2004 Regional Exploration program. A total of 1,827 soil samples were collected at 25 meter intervals along the 46.975 line-kilometers of cross lines. Including the Phase I (2006) work program, a total of 2,859 soil samples have been collected on the Apapam grid.
The anomalous threshold for the soil sample results was set at 0.075 ppm gold based on past exploration experience on the Apapam concession. 666 (23%) out of the 2,859 soil samples returned gold values greater than the 0.075 ppm anomalous threshold, including: 236 (8%) samples over 0.150 ppm; 95 (3.5%) samples over 0.30 ppm; and 61 (2%) samples over 0.5 ppm gold.
The expanded soil survey outlined an over 5.5 km long, NE-trending, anomalous gold-in-soil trend (“Kibi gold-in-soil trend”) characterized by four (4) extensive, higher grade zones (i.e. Zone 1 to 4) ranging from approximately 800 meters by 75-300 meters to 1,000 meters by 100-500 meters in area. This gold-in-soil anomalous trend (> 0.075 ppm Au) tends to be patchy in nature and/or to pinch-out along its 5.5 km extent. The gold-in-soil anomalies exhibit a good spatial relationship with the bedrock gold occurrences identified to date in trenches at the northwestern extremity of the Apapam concession.
IP / Resistivity And Magnetometer Surveys
An Induced Polarization (IP) / Resistivity survey covering the entire 5.5 km extent of the Kibi gold-in-soil trend was conducted to help define drill targets for the Phase I drill program. The 61.9 line-kilometer IP / Resistivity (Time Domain) survey, covering the entire extent of the Kibi gold-in-soil trend at 200 meter spacing, with some 100 meter detail sections centred on known gold showings, was conducted using a Pole-Dipole Array with a dipole length of 50 meters and dipole separations of n = 1 to 6. This survey design should yield an approximate depth of investigation of about 175 to 200 meters at n=6.
The IP / Resistivity survey helped map the extent of the granitoid bodies spatially associated with the gold occurrences identified to date by trenching and drilling, and yielded information on the strike extent and attitude of the mineralized structures.
A ground magnetometer survey encompassing 78.8 line-kilometers was also conducted on the Apapam grid. The magnetometer survey was implemented to help map the geology of the Kibi gold-in-soil trend area and to assist in the IP / Resistivity survey interpretation. The geophysical surveys were implemented in August to September 2008 by Sagax Afrique of Ouagadougou, Burkina Faso.
Kibi Gold-In-Soil Trend Trenching Program
The 2008 Apapam trenching program encompassed 22 trenches totaling approximately 1,375 linear meters, including: 8 trenches (425 m) on Zone 2 (TKB006-013); and 14 trenches (950 m) on Zone 3 (TAD008-021) of the 5.5 km long Kibi gold-in-soil trend. The 19 hand dug and 3 mechanical trenches, ranging from 20 meters to 154 meters in length and from 1.5 meters to 4.0 meters in depth, were designed to test the geochemical signature at depth, within the in situ saprolite (oxidized rock) horizon, of the gold-in-soil anomalies. To date, a total of 35 trenches totaling approximately 2,320 m have been excavated on the Kibi gold-in-soil trend.
Trenching exposed widespread occurrences of classical granitoid-hosted gold mineralization in Zone 2 and 3. Mineralization is hosted by swarms of granitoid bodies interpreted to be emplaced along splay structures off an inferred NE-trending regional structure. The broadly spaced trenching encountered significant granitoid-hosted gold mineralization, over trench lengths ranging from 10 meters to 45 meters, spread out over approximately 975 meter and 500 meter E-W distances in Zone 2 and 3, respectively. In addition several granitoid occurrences yielded lower grade but still exploration significant anomalous gold values. Significant gold intercepts from the 2008 trenching program, as well as significant intercepts from the 2007 Zone 2 trenching, are presented in Table 1 below. The term “ppm” represents “part per million” where 1 ppm = 1 gram per tonne (g/t) = 1,000 part per billion (ppb).
A total of 14 manual trenches totaling approximately 950 linear meters (TAD008-TAD021) were completed in 2008 on Zone 3 of the Kibi gold-in-soil trend, located approximately 700 meters southwest of the Phase I drilling area on Zone 2. To date saprolitic occurrences of altered granitoid exhibiting quartz-iron carbonate veining and oxidized sulphide sites have been encountered in six (6) trenches on Zone 3.
- 33 -
The Zone 3 trenching yielded two (2) significant granitoid-hosted gold mineralization intercepts: 4.93 ppm gold over 45 meters, including 10.12 ppm gold over 12 meters; and 1.60 ppm gold over 18 meters, including 9.89 ppm gold over 2 meters, in trenches TAD019 and TAD016, respectively. In addition, reconnaissance trenching of the Zone 3 gold-in-soil anomaly in 2007 yielded an intercept of 1.09 ppm gold over a 10 meter trench length in trench TAD001-TAD004. The remaining three (3) mineralized granitoid occurrences yielded lower grade but exploration significant, anomalous gold values.
Table 1: Significant Trench Intersections - Kibi Gold Trend (Length Weighted Average Grades)
(1)
Reported intercepts are trench-lengths; true width of mineralization is unknown at this time.
(2)
Estimated to represent a true width of ~ 4m due to flat lying nature of quartz veining.
(3)
Apparent Width: Estimated to represent a true width of ~ 25 meters based on flat lying nature of the quartz veining
Phase I Drill Program - Kibi Gold Trend
The Apapam scout drilling program encompassed 18 diamond drill holes (NQ2 core), ranging from 60 meters to 320.5 meters in length, and totalling 3,001 linear meters. This reconnaissance drilling was designed to test the depth continuity of gold mineralization discovered in trenches excavated on Zone 2 and Zone 1 of the Kibi Gold Trend; an over 5.5 km long, NE-trending, anomalous gold-in-soil trend characterized by four (4) extensive, higher grade zones ranging from approximately 800 meters by 75-300 meters to 1,000 meters by 100-500 meters in area. The diamond drilling program was implemented from August 30 to October 28, 2008 by Burwash Drilling of Cobble Hill, British Columbia, Canada.
This initial reconnaissance drilling program yielded very encouraging results and demonstrated that the granitoid-hosted gold mineralization occurrences intersected along the Kibi gold-in-soil trend offers potential for shallow oxide mineralization amenable to bulk mining and heap leaching, as well as large primary gold systems at depth.
- 34 -
The first 15 holes of the program targeted gold mineralization discovered in four (4) trenches, TKB005, TKB004, TKB006, and TKB009-010, spread out over an approximately 975 meter E-W distance on the Zone 2 gold-in-soil anomaly. Thirteen (13) out of the 15 holes on Zone 2 yielded significant gold intercepts, including 10 holes intersecting significant granitoid-hosted gold mineralization over 7 meter to 45 meter core lengths. Significant gold intercepts are presented in Table 2 below. The term “ppm” represents “part per million” where 1 ppm = 1 gram per tonne (g/t) = 1,000 part per billion (ppb).
Mineralized material consists of altered quartz diorite and tonalite exhibiting quartz-iron carbonate veining, and disseminated sulphides. Mineralization discovered to date by trenching and/or drilling on Zone 2 and Zone 3 appears to be hosted by swarms of granitoid bodies, ranging from 5.5 meters to 79 meters in core length, interpreted to be emplaced along splay structures off an inferred NE-trending regional structure.
Limited drilling to date traced the granitoid-hosted gold mineralization over a 200 meter strike length and to a vertical depth of 100 meters at the Trench TKB004 Zone, including gold intercepts of: 2.11 ppm gold over 25.4 meters; 0.87 ppm gold over 15 meters and 1.28 ppm gold over 33 meters; 2.24 ppm gold over 16 meters; and 2.78 ppm gold over 15 meters in holes KBD08012, 013, 014, and 015, respectively. Similarly, mineralization at the Trench TKB005 Zone was traced over an approximately 135 meter strike length and to a vertical depth of 76 meters in holes KBD08003 & 004 and KBD08010 & 011. Including significant intercepts of 8.49 ppm gold over 12 meters and 4.83 ppm gold over 7 meters in holes KBD08004 and KBD08010, respectively.
Limited Zone 1 scout drilling (3 holes) intersected a typical “Ashanti” style shear zone setting developed proximal to a metavolcanic-metasediment contact with a spatially associated granitoid body. Hole KBD08017 yielded intermittent, exploration significant, anomalous gold values over a 60 meter core length. Including encouraging intercepts of 1.43 ppm gold over 13.5 meters, 1.04 ppm gold over 6 meters, and 1.02 ppm gold over 8 meters. In addition, trench TKB012 excavated on a gold-in-soil anomaly located approximately 100 meters west of hole KBD08017 returned a channel sample intercept of 2.51 ppm gold over a 4 meter trench length.
Recommended work to further advance the project includes: (a) additional mechanical trenching to further define the geological / structural nature and extent of the granitoid-host gold mineralization in Zone 2 and 3; and (b) a 5,000 m combined reverse circulation / diamond drilling program. The estimated cost of the follow-up exploration program is approximately $800,000.
No ore reserves have been identified on the Apapam Project.
- 35 -
Table 2: Significant Drill Intercepts - Kibi Gold Trend Project (Length Weighted Average Grades)
(1)
Reported intercepts are core-lengths; true width of mineralization is unknown at this time.
(2)
GRD - Granitoid hosted / associated; VG - Visible gold noted.
- 36 -
Mining Lease - Apapam Project
XG Mining’s interest in the Apapam Project was previously held by a prospecting license granted by The Government of Ghana on March 29, 2004 covering a licensed area of 33.65 sq km. Subsequently, in May 2008, XG Mining made an application to The Government of Ghana to convert the prospecting license to a mining lease. Our application received parliamentary approval resulting in The Government of Ghana granting and registering a mining lease to XG Mining on the following terms and conditions.
Our subsidiary, XG Mining, which is owned by us as to a 90% interest, entered into a mining lease dated December 18, 2008 (the “Apapam mining lease”) with The Government of Ghana, who holds a 10% free carried interest in XG Mining. The Apapam mining lease covers an area of 33.65 sq km (the “Lease Area”) and is located in the East Akim District of the Eastern Region of the Republic of Ghana. The Apapam mining lease has a 7 year term expiring on December 17, 2015 and can be renewed for a further 30 year term in accordance with the Minerals and Mining Act, 2006 (Act 703) by making application not less than six months prior to the expiration of the mining lease. We have been granted surface and mining rights by the Government of Ghana to work, develop and produce gold in the Lease Area (including the processing, storing and transportation of ore and materials). With respect to the Apapam mining lease, we are: (i) required to pay applicable taxes and annual rental fees to the Government of Ghana of approximately $15; and (ii) committed to pay a royalty in each quarter to the Government of Ghana, through the Commissioner of Internal Revenue, based on the production for that quarter within 30 days from the quarter end as well as a royalty on all timber felled in accordance with existing legislation. Under the terms and conditions of the Apapam mining lease, we are required to (i) commence commercial production of gold within two years from the date of the mining lease; (ii) conduct our operations with due diligence, efficiency, safety and economy, in accordance with good commercial mining practices and in a proper and workmanlike manner, observing sound technical and engineering principles using appropriate modern and effective equipment, machinery, materials and methods and paying particular regard to the conservation of resources, reclamation of land and environmental protection generally; (iii) mine and extract ore in accordance with subparagraph (ii) herein, utilizing methods which include dredging, quarrying, pitting, trenching, stoping and shaft sinking in the Lease Area.
We are further required to furnish (i) a report in each quarter not later than 30 days after the quarter end to the Government Authorities in connection with quantities of gold won in that quarter, quantities sold, revenue received and royalties payable; (ii) a report half-yearly not later than 40 days after the half year end to the Government Authorities summarizing the results of operations during the half year and Technical Records, which report shall also contain a description of any geological or geophysical work carried out by our company in that half year and a plan upon a scale approved by the HIDMC showing dredging areas and mine workings; (iii) aa report in each financial year not later than 60 days after the end of the financial year summarizing the results of our operations in the Lease Area during that financial year and the Technical Records, which report shall further contain a description of the proposed operations for the following year with an estimate of the production and revenue to be obtained; (iv) a report not later than three months after the expiration or termination of the mining lease, to the Government Authorities giving an account of the geology of the Lease Area including the stratigraphic and structural conditions and a geological map on scale prescribed in the Mining Regulations; (v) a report to the Government Authorities (except for HIDMC and DGGS) of any proposed alteration to our regulations, (vi) a report to the Government Authorities (except for HIDMC and DGGS) on the particulars of any fresh share issuance or borrowings in excess of an amount equal to the stated capital of XG Mining; (vii) having regard to items (v) and (vi), these reports shall be submitted not less than 21 days in advance of the proposed alteration, issuance or borrowing; (viii) a copy of XG Mining’s annual financial reports to the Government Authorities (except for HIDMC and DGGS) including a balance sheet, profit and loss account and notes thereto certified by a qualified accountant, who is a member of the Ghana Institute of Chartered Accountants, not later than 180 days after the financial year end; and (ix) such other reports and information in connection with our operations to Government Authorities as they may reasonably require. We are entitled to surrender all of our rights in respect of any part of the Lease Area not larger in aggregate than 20% of the Lease Area by providing not less than two months’ notice to the Government of Ghana. We may surrender a larger part of the Lease Area by providing not less than 12 months’ notice. We have the right to terminate our interest in the Apapam mining lease if the mine can no longer be economically worked, by giving not less than nine months’ notice to the Government Authorities, without prejudice to any obligation or liability incurred prior to such termination. The Government of Ghana has the right to terminate our interest in the Apapam mining lease if (i) we fail to make payments when due; (ii) contravene or fail to comply with terms and conditions of the mining lease (however, we have 120 days to remedy from the notice of such event); (iii) become insolvent or commit an act of bankruptcy; or (iv) submit false statements to the Government Authorities.
The Apapam mining lease further provides that XG Mining shall report forthwith to the Government Authorities in the event it discovers any other mineral deposits apart from gold and silver in the Lease Area, who in turn will provide XG Mining with the first option to prospect further and to work the said minerals subject to satisfactory arrangements between made between XG Mining and the Government Authorities.
- 37 -
The Edum Banso Project
Access and Location
Our Edum Banso Project lies within the south Ashanti gold belt in the Western Region of Ghana and is located approximately 235 kilometers west of Accra and 15 kilometers northwest of Takoradi, the regional capital.
Access to the Project is by asphalt road from Accra to Takoradi and by gravel road from Takoradi to Edum Banso through the town of Apowa. Internal access within the concession area is quite poor, however there are many footpaths that interconnect the scattered settlements within this concession. Our Edum Banso Project is located approximately 200 km southwest from our Field Camp.
Option Agreement for Prospecting License
Our wholly-owned subsidiary, XGEL entered into an option agreement dated October 17, 2005 (the “Adom Option Agreement”) with Adom Mining Ltd. (“Adom”), a 100% wholly registered Ghanaian company, who is the registered proprietor of a prospecting license which Adom entered into with The Government of Ghana on May 8, 1991, covering a licensed area of 20.60 sq km (the “Edum Banso Licensed Area”). The current term of the prospecting license has been extended to July 14, 2009 on approval by Min Com. A further application for renewal of the prospecting license requires our submission of (i) a comprehensive terminal report, including logs of pits and assay results; (ii) a detailed financial report; (iii) a site plan indicating the areas to be retained and those to be shed off; (iv) evidence of annual ground rent payments; and (v) an environmental permit from the EPA.
Previously, Newmont Ghana Limited (“Newmont”) had entered into an option agreement with Adom in connection with the Edum Banso Project, however abandoned their interest.
Under the terms and conditions of the prospecting license, Adom has the right to prospect for and prove gold under or in the licensed area including the right to conduct such geological and geophysical investigations in the licensed area in order to determine an adequate quantity of geologically proven and mineable reserve of gold (directly or through agents, contractors or sub-contractors). Under the prospecting license, the holder has the right to (i) assign or mortgage its interest in the prospecting license, subject to obtaining the consent of the Government of Ghana who may impose certain conditions in connection therewith; (ii) surrender its interest in the prospecting license; and (iii) renew the term of the prospecting license for a period of two years or such other renewal period as may be granted in accordance with applicable mining laws of Ghana.
The Government of Ghana has the right to terminate the prospecting license in the event the holder of the prospecting license (i) fails to make payments when due; (ii) contravenes or fails to comply with terms and conditions of prospecting license; (iii) becomes insolvent or commits an act of bankruptcy; or (iv) submits false statements to the Government of Ghana. In any of the foregoing events, the holder will have 21 days in which to remedy any of these occurrences. If upon expiration of prospecting license, the holder has fulfilled its obligations and has established to the Government of Ghana that development of a mine from ore and reserves established within the licensed area is economical and financially feasible, the Government of Ghana shall grant the holder with first option to (i) acquire a license for purposes of mining gold in the licensed area of the Edum Banso concession; and (ii) participate in mining project in licensed area, subject to negotiation with the Government of Ghana of satisfactory terms for such license and participation.
At the time of execution of the Adom Option Agreement, we paid Adom $5,000 as consideration for entering into the agreement with us. We are required to pay Adom additional payments of $5,000 on the anniversary date of the Adom Option Agreement for each year that we hold an interest in such agreement. The term of the Adom Option Agreement is for five years. There are no other termination rights available to Adom.
We are required to make an additional payment of $200,000 to Adom at the time of commencement of the production of gold in or on the Edum Banso Project; provided, however in the event less than two million ounces of proven and probable reserves are discovered in or on the Edum Banso Project, this payment shall be reduced to $100,000. Under the terms and conditions of the Adom Option Agreement, Adom has granted XGEL the sole and exclusive right and option to acquire all of its right, title and interest in the
- 38 -
prospecting license, which option may be exercised by XGEL at any time during the term. Adom has further granted XGEL the exclusive right of free and unrestricted access to the Edum Banso Project to explore, develop and, provided XGEL has exercised the option, to mine, extract, remove and sell any and all ores, minerals, concentrates or other products from the Edum Banso Project. Upon XGEL’s written election to exercise the option, Adom shall forthwith transfer the prospecting license to XGEL, subject only to a reserved royalty of 2% of the net smelter returns (“NSR”) from all ores, minerals or other products mined and removed from the Edum Banso Project and sold by XGEL. In the event less than two million ounces of proven and probable reserves are discovered in or on the Adom Project, the reserved royalty shall be 1% of the NSR. Adom has granted XGEL the exclusive right and option, exercisable by XGEL at any time to purchase the entirety of the reserved royalty for the sum of $2,000,000. No payment of the actual NSR shall be credited toward the reserved royalty purchase price. In the event less than two million ounces of proven and probable reserves are discovered in or on the Edum Banso Project, the reserved royalty purchase price shall be $1,000,000. Pursuant to the terms of an amending agreement entered into between the parties on October 19, 2006, XGEL has the right, without the prior consent of Adom, to assign or transfer its rights under the Option Agreement and the option to any affiliate or third party or to enter into a joint venture in connection therewith provided that any assignment, transfer or joint venture by XGEL shall be subject to agreement by the assignee, transferee or joint venture partner to be bound by the terms of this agreement.
Reserves
There are no proven (measured) reserves reported on this Project at this time.
Geology
The Edum Banso concession is underlain by basic to intermediate metavolcanic rocks, volcanoclastic rocks, greywackes and phyllites of the Upper Birimian Formation. These rocks are intruded by Dixcove suite granites in the north, mainly composed of hornblende granites, granodiorites, and gabbros and diorites in the south. Similar intrusive granites in Ghana have been proven to host disseminated sulphide hosted gold mineralization. Two major thrust faults interpreted from aeromagnetic data run north by northeast through the project area.
Historic Work
The only gold production on the concession was from local miners working the auriferous gravels and quartz veins as reported by J.W. Lunn in the 1930s. Amercosa (formerly AngloAmerican) reportedly worked on the project in the late 1990’s, however the results from this work are not published. St. Jude Resources, a Canadian public mining company, conducted geophysical surveys including magnetic and induced polarization surveys. The prospective structures identified in these surveys were followed up by geochemical surveys which included soil, trench and pit sampling.
Stream sediment sampling throughout the entire concession area by Newmont Mining in 2003 defined a broad anomalous gold zone approximately 7 km long by 1.5 km wide, roughly conforming to the regional geological trend. Follow-up soil (1,109 samples) and rock sampling by Newmont in 2004 further constrained this broadly anomalous area into two distinctive anomalies, while geophysical interpretation suggests they are coincident with the surface expression of two major North-South oriented thrust faults.
Phase I Exploration Program
A first phase exploration program (the “Phase I Work Program”) was implemented on the Edum Banso concession from August 2007 to January 2008 by Torkornoo & Associates Limited (“TAL”), at a cost of approximately $177,000. TAL is a Ghanaian geological consultancy with the principal being a professional geologist registered with The Australasian Institute of Mining and Metallurgy (AusIMM).
Based on the complex structural nature of gold deposits identified to date by Third Parties within the Hwini-Butre/Benso-Subriso gold district, the Phase I Work Program encompassed infill soil sampling, reconnaissance geology / prospecting, hand auger sampling and trenching designed to identify cost-effective drill targets. The tighter soil geochemical coverage (200m) was implemented to better define the length-extents and trends of the gold-in-soil anomalies detected by the historical Newmont soil program (2004). The deep auger components of the program was proposed to test the geochemical signature of gold-in-soil anomalies at depth in order to better define trenching and drilling targets. The results of this program are noted hereunder.
- 39 -
Phase I fieldwork consisted of the following:
●
Grid establishment: 8.4 km baseline, 73.8 km gridlines;
●
Soil sampling: 2,703 samples collected, 1,815 samples submitted for gold analysis;
●
Rock sampling: 68 samples;
●
Hand auger sampling: 252 holes / samples;
●
Trenching: 6 trenches (319 meters), 214 channel samples.
Soil / Rock Sampling; Methodology - Results
The first pass of the soil sampling survey was carried out using a classical digging tool called a “soso” to a typical depth 0.5 meters. Infill sampling in areas of interest was implemented by shallow auger sampling to a 1.0 meter depth. A total 1,815 soil samples were submitted for gold analysis.
TAL arbitrarily set the anomalous threshold for the soil sample results at 0.05 ppm gold based on past work experience in the Hwini-Butre / Benso-Subriso gold district. 123 out of the 1,815 soil samples (approx. 7%) returned gold values greater than the 0.05 ppm anomalous threshold. The soil geochemistry survey outlined a 8.0 km long by approximately 0.6 km wide, gold-in-soil anomalous trend conforming to the regional NNE structural trend. This gold-in-soil anomaly (> 0.05 ppm Au) tends to be patchy in nature and / or to pinch-out along its 8.0 km extent. The term “ppm” represents “part per million” where 1 ppm = 1 gram per tonne (g/t) = 1,000 part per billion (ppb). Four areas (i.e. Zone A, B, C and D) within the defined gold-in-soil anomalous corridor were relative continuity and / or the favorable geological and structural settings of the gold-in-soil anomalies.
Zone A, located to the north of the town of Edum Banso, extends from gridline 14700N to 15200N (500 meters). Zone B, located to the northeast of the hamlet of Edum Dominase, extends from line 11300N to 12100N (800 meters). Zone C is an approximately 200 meter by 200 meter area located in the east-central portion of the concession. This zone is characterized by three (3) consecutive, strongly anomalous gold-in-soil values over a 50 meter distance on Line 11300N. Zone D consists of a NE-trending zone of discrete gold-in-soil values extending from L8200N to L9900N (1,700 meters) at the south-western extremity of the concession.
Based on geophysical interpretation, including airborne magnetic and radiometric data, the Zone C and Zone D gold-in-soil anomalies appear to be spatially associated with the contact between the Birimian Metavolcanics and the circular Mpohor Intrusive Complex.
A total of 68 rock (float) samples were collected during reconnaissance geological mapping carried out alongside the soil sampling. This rock sampling produced a single exploration-significant gold value from a float of iron oxide stained quartz located to the south of the Zone D gold-in-soil anomaly. Similarly to the Zone C and Zone D anomalies this anomalous quartz float also appears to lie proximate to the inferred metavolcanic-Mpohor Complex contact.
Deep Auger Sampling; Methodology - Results
As a follow up to the soil sampling a deep auger program was implemented on the four priority areas to test the geochemical signature of the gold-in-soil anomalies at depth within the saprolite horizon in order to better define trenching targets. A total of 252 sites were augered to an average depth of approximately 4.0 meters with a one (1) meter sample collected from the saprolite horizon at the bottom of each hole. Auger hole spacing was typically 25 meters, with some 12.5 meter infilling.
TAL set the anomalous threshold for the auger sample results at 0.10 ppm gold based on past work experience in the Hwini-Butre / Benso-Subriso gold district. 19 (7.5%) out of the 252 deep auger samples returned gold values greater than the 0.10 ppm anomalous threshold.
- 40 -
Manual Trenching; Methodology - Results
The Zone A and Zone D deep auger anomalies (> 0.10 ppm Au) were further tested by three (3) trenches totaling 160 meters and three (3) trenches totaling 159 meters, respectively. The trenches were manually excavated with pickaxes and shovels to a vertical depth of 4 meters. A total of 214 channel samples were collected from the sidewall of the six (6) trenches totaling 319 meters. Samples consisted of horizontal channels, typically 1 meter or 2 meters in length, cut approximately 0.1 meter above the floor of the trench.
The Zone A trenching failed to yield any significant gold results. Trench EBTR005 yielded the only exploration - significant gold results from the Zone D trenching in the form of a length-weighted average grade of 1.23 ppm gold over a 4 meter trench-length (2 samples). The anomalous section is characterized by chlorite altered mafic metavolvanic rock hosting fine, iron oxide stained, quartz stringers.
Results / Recommendations
Although the Edum Banso Phase I Work Program only yielded limited exploration-significant gold results, the spatial association of the Zone C and Zone D gold-in-soil and deep auger anomalies, the anomalous trench EBTR005 channel samples, and the auriferous quartz float, with the geophysically interpreted, north-western rim of the Mpohor Intrusive Complex is of considerable exploration significance.
Economically significant gold mineralization is known to exist along the south- eastern margin of the circular Mpohor Complex, approximately 2 km to the south-east of the Edum Banso concession. Although published information, geophysical interpretation, and the results of the present work program indicate that the Edum Banso concession shares a similar geological / structural setting as the deposits located on the south- eastern rim of the Mpohor Complex, it by no means implies that the Edum Banso property hosts similar mineral deposits.
Recommended work to further advance the project includes: (a) additional deep auger sampling of the Zone C and Zone D gold-in-soil anomalies; (b) continued reconnaissance geology and rock (float) sampling along the inferred margin of the Mpohor Complex; and (c) detail structural interpretation of the property area based on the airborne magnetic and radiometric data. Further exploration activities will be planned once an ongoing geological, geochemical and geophysical data compilation has been completed.
Item 3.