Item 2.
PROPERTIES
Real Property
We do not own any real property. All of our exploration activities are currently conducted at project sites located in Ghana. Mining leases or prospecting licenses to which we are a party, granting us the right to operate at our Kwabeng and Pameng, Apapam, Banso and Muoso and Edum Banso Projects, are described elsewhere in this Report.
Our administrative activities are currently conducted from our corporate head office, where we have leased 1,163 square feet for a 66 month term commencing on May 1, 2007. Our office is located at Suite 301, 360 Bay Street, Toronto, Ontario, Canada, M5H 2V6. We pay rent of approximately $3,397 per month in the first and second years of the lease; (ii) approximately $3,494 per month in the third and fourth years of the lease; and approximately $3,591 per month in the fifth year of the lease.
Our technical activities are currently conducted from our technical office located at House No. 15, Ade-Coker Road, East Legon, Accra, Ghana which we lease on an annual basis and pay rent of $1,000 per month.
We also maintain a technical office located at 430 Westmount Avenue, Unit F, Sudbury, Ontario, Canada, P3A 5Z8, where our VPE and his staff conduct business and pay rent of approximately $500 per month.
Map of Properties and Operations
The map, on the following page, shows the locations of our Kwabeng, Pameng, Apapam, Banso and Muoso and Edum Banso Projects all of which are described in further detail in this Report.
- 14 -
- 15 -
Description of Properties
Our Banso and Muoso Project and Edum Banso concessions represent “grassroots” or “greenfields” mineral exploration projects. These exploration projects are each at an early stage of evaluation and no mineralized material or reserve estimates have been made. The present exploration activities on these concessions, including grid establishment, soil sampling, prospecting/geological mapping, pitting/trenching and geophysics, are aimed at identifying lode gold (hardrock) mineral occurrences to be further evaluated through drilling. We have completed preliminary lode gold exploration programs at our Banso and Muoso and Apapam Projects and have received their respective results as noted hereunder. We are preparing a preliminary lode gold exploration program at our Edum Banso Project. We have not yet produced any gold at our Banso and Muoso, Apapam and Edum Banso Projects and we will require substantial additional capital in order to do so.
Three concessions totaling 118.92 sq km; namely our Kwabeng Project, Pameng Project and our Apapam Project, which is located to the south of our Kwabeng and Pameng Projects, are contiguous to our Banso and Muoso Project.
Kwabeng and Pameng Projects
Access and Location
Access to our Kwabeng Project can be gained by driving northwest from the City of Accra on the Accra-Kumasi Trunk Road, which is the main paved national highway, for approximately 110 km until arrival at the road sign for “Kwabeng” where we have posted a sign reading “Xtra-Gold Mining Ltd. - Kwabeng”. Make a left hand turn on the road where a sign reads Town of Anyinam and drive southwest approximately 10 km until the Town of Kwabeng is reached where our Field Camp is located on the right side of the road approximately 50 meters from the Anyinam to Kwabeng road. Our Field Camp is located approximately 500 meters from the Town of Kwabeng. The eastern boundary of our Kwabeng Project is approximately 500 meters to the east of our Field Camp.
Access to our Pameng Project can be gained by driving northwest from the City of Accra on the Accra-Kumasi Trunk Road, which is the main paved national highway, for approximately 125 km until arrival at the village of Pameng where there is a road sign reading “Pameng”. Make a left hand turn at the Pameng sign and drive southwest approximately 2 km to reach our Pameng concession. Our Pameng concession is located approximately 15 km south-southwest from our Field Camp.
Title to Properties
We hold 30-year mining leases expiring on July 26, 2019 on our Kwabeng and Pameng mining concessions (see “Mining Leases - Kwabeng and Pameng Projects”) and a prospecting license for our Apapam Project (see “The Apapam Project”).
Historical Work
These three Projects have had very little exploration for lode source gold deposits; however, there has been detailed exploration for placer gold deposits. The Kwabeng, Pameng and Apapam Projects contain approximately 12,583,000 BCM with an average grade of 0.568 grams/BCM. In addition to the mineralized material, there is potential to define reserves with further exploration.
The placer gold deposit currently located at our Kwabeng concession was mined by the former owner in the early 1990’s for 15 months and produced approximately 16,800 ounces of gold before operations were ceased due to mining difficulties as noted hereunder. The placer gold is contained in a gravel deposit distributed across the floor of the river valleys west of the Atewa Range which can easily be excavated.
- 16 -
Field Camp at Kwabeng Project
In addition to the two mining leases, XG Mining owns the Wash Plant and a functional living compound for mining personnel (the “Field Camp”) which is also comprised of offices and facilities for stores, engineering and exploration activities. The Wash Plant and the Field Camp are located on the property included in our Kwabeng concession, close to the town of Kwabeng.
We have engaged experienced mining personnel with respect to our recovery of gold effort at our Kwabeng Project. We currently have approximately 100 personnel working at the Kwabeng Field Camp and our administrative office in Accra, Ghana. We have further engaged a Mine Manager who supervises all personnel at our Plant, Field Camp and gold recovery room (“Gold Room”) and a Management Geologist who supervises the exploration and planning of daily recovery of gold activities of our personnel.
Former Ownership
In early 1990’s, the former mining lessee invested approximately $24,000,000 to open and operate a mine at the Kwabeng concession. The mining operation lasted for 15 months and 16,800 ounces of gold was produced before the mine was shut down.
The preceding mining effort failed as the former operator was unable to achieve anticipated throughput due to the design and construction deficiencies of the processing plant. Significant operational costs to sustain high throughputs, a poor gold price, lack of funds to continue mining operations and the lack of available qualified placer gold consultants, engineers and operators which led to the engagement of expensive foreign personnel also contributed to the failure of the previous mining effort.
We are able to address the foregoing past failings of the former operator as we have: (i) redesigned our Wash Plant to accommodate a higher capacity of throughput; (ii) engaged experienced Ghanaian engineers, geological consultants and accounting personnel; (iii) cash available to sustain our current recovery of gold effort for approximately 12 months; and (iv) a plan to derive cash proceeds from our current recovery of gold effort in order to meet operational costs through the course of advancing our plan. Also, the current gold price (approximately $900 per ounce) is significantly greater compared to the gold price during the previous mining effort (approximately $300 per ounce). On the basis of our planned annual recovery of gold of approximately 360,000 BCM, we anticipate that our plan could continue for a minimum of 20 years, however, this will depend upon numerous factors including the grade and commercial recoverability of the mineralized material and the selling gold price at the relevant time.
Floating Gold Ore Washing and Processing Plant
The Wash Plant was custom manufactured for the placer gold ores located on the Kwabeng and Pameng concessions by IHC of the Netherlands and shipped to Ghana in disassembled modules in the early 1990’s while the Kwabeng mining lease was held by the former owner, Goldenrae Mining Company Limited. The Wash Plant is made up of two major functional components: (i) a series of modular pontoons which are assembled on-site to make up the floating barge portion of the Wash Plant; and (ii) the gold ore processing and recovery equipment, power generation equipment are installed, which is comprised of vibrating grizzly feeder, scrubber, vibrating screen, a three stage IHC radial jig gold recovery unit and provisions for the disposal of the barren processed gravels back into the mining pit. The rated recovery of gold capacity of the Wash Plant is approximately 150 cubic meters of ore gravels per hour and we anticipate that it will be operated continuously by the staff to be hired at the commencement of full scale production at our Kwabeng concession. The Wash Plant is currently being operated on a one 10 hour shift per day for six days of the week. The Wash Plant, and our Field Camp thereto, is currently operated by generators since the area of our concession is not yet connected to any electrical power generation facility. In light of the current government imposed power shedding (outages), our company has decided to postpone connection of the Field Camp to the national power grid and will continue to rely on its own generator systems. Currently, a new vibrating screen deck and water supply pump have been installed and the Wash Plant is fully operational.
Bulk Test
We completed the Bulk Test at our Kwabeng Project on March 25, 2007. During the Bulk Test, we collected, processed, analyzed and sold the gold recovered from the Bulk Test. We obtained the necessary approvals and permits from the Ghanaian government authorities prior to commencing the Bulk Test.
- 17 -
Mining Leases - Kwabeng and Pameng Projects
Our subsidiary, XG Mining, which is owned by us as to a 90% interest, entered into two individual mining leases on July 26, 1989 with The Government of the Republic of Ghana (the “Government of Ghana”), who holds a 10% interest in XG Mining, covering an area of 44.76 sq km with respect to the Kwabeng concession and 40.51 sq km with respect to the Pameng concession (collectively, the “Lease Area”), located in the East Akim District of the Eastern Region of the Republic of Ghana. These mining leases have a 30 year term expiring on July 26, 2019. We have been granted surface and mining rights by the Government of Ghana to work, develop and produce gold in the lease area (including processing, storing and transportation of ore and materials). With respect to each mining lease, we are: (i) required to pay applicable taxes and annual rental fees of Cedis 15,500 (based on Cedis 500 per sq km) (USD$1.75) to the Government of Ghana; and (ii) committed to pay a royalty in each quarter through the Commissioner of Internal Revenue based on the production for that quarter within 30 days from the quarter end as well as a royalty on all timber felled in accordance with existing legislation. Under the terms and conditions of each mining lease, we are required to furnish (i) a report in each quarter not later than 30 days after the quarter end to the Government Authorities in connection with quantities of gold won in that quarter, quantities sold, revenue received and royalties payable; (ii) a report half-yearly not later than 60 days after the financial year end to the Government Authorities summarizing the results of operations during the half year and records containing a description for the proposed operations for the following year with an estimate of the production and revenue to be obtained; (iii) a report not later than three months after the expiration or termination of the mining lease, to the Government Authorities, giving an account of the geology of the lease area including the stratigraphic and structural conditions and a geological map on scale prescribed in the Mining Regulations; (iv) a report to the Government Authorities of any proposed alteration to its regulations and a report of the particulars of any proposed transfer of any share of its capital stock representing 1% of more of the total number of issued and outstanding shares; (v) a report to the Government Authorities on the particulars of any fresh share issuance or borrowings in excess of an amount equal to the stated capital of XG Mining; and (vi) having regard to items (iv) and (v), these reports shall be submitted not less than 60 days in advance of the proposed alteration, transfer, issue or borrowing; (vii) a copy of each of its annual financial reports including a balance sheet, profit and loss account and notes thereto certified by a recognized accountant not later than 180 days after the financial year end; and (viii) such other reports and information in connection with our operations to Government Authorities as be reasonably required. We are entitled to surrender all or any part of our interest in the lease area upon providing proper notice to the Government of Ghana. We have the right to terminate our interest in each mining lease if the subject mine can no longer be economically worked, by giving not less than nine months’ notice to the Government Authorities, without prejudice to any obligation or liability incurred prior to such termination. The Government of Ghana has the right to terminate our interest in the mining lease if (i) we fail to make payments when due; (ii) contravene or fail to comply with terms and conditions of mining lease (however, we have three months to remedy from the notice of such event); (iii) become insolvent or commit an act of bankruptcy; or (iv) submit false statements to the Government Authorities.
The mining leases further provide that XG Mining shall report forthwith to the Minister, the Chief Inspector of Mines, the Director of Geological Survey and the Chief Executive of the Minerals Commission in the event it discovers any other minerals in the lease area, who in turn will provide XG Mining with the first option to prospect further and to work the said minerals subject to satisfactory arrangements between made between XG Mining and the relevant government authorities.
Sale of Gold
As of April 30, 2008, we have sold an aggregate of 6,266.25 ounces of gold recovered from the mineralized material at our Kwabeng Project. We do not have an exclusive agreement with any company or entity to buy the gold that we recover.
Ancillary Operations
Our company already possesses a fully operational and well maintained Field Camp comprised of office, administration accommodation and workshop facilities located on the Kwabeng concession and is accessible by paved road located approximately 2 hours drive from the capital city of Accra. Our Field Camp is the base of operations for our Kwabeng, Pameng and Apapam Projects. The Field Camp is within cell phone coverage and can be supplied with electricity from the national grid, which lines run along the road accessing the Field Camp. We anticipate that all of our senior staff will be accommodated in the Field Camp with the junior staff finding accommodation in the surrounding towns and villages.
- 18 -
Fuel and Spare Parts Supply
We plan to deliver fuel from Accra by tanker and plan to discharge the fuel into and store the fuel in the fuel tank facility located within the Field Camp. We plan to purchase spare parts for all of our equipment either locally or from suppliers overseas and store such parts in the secure spare parts warehouse located at the Field Camp.
Departmental Workspace
We anticipate, for the most part, hiring our company’s engineering staff locally due to the abundance of highly skilled mining professionals in Ghana. There is adequate office space at the Field Camp for our anticipated mine planning and engineering, geology, surveying, environmental, processing, equipment maintenance and other departments.
Equipment Maintenance
Depending upon whether we elect to own and operate our own earthmoving equipment fleet or not, then the maintenance of that fleet will be carried out in the workshops located within the Field Camp. At the time when we make our decision to own and operate an earth moving equipment fleet, we plan for some re-tooling and re-equipping of our workshops to suit the equipment that we anticipate being utilized for our mining operations. If our company decides to make use of a mining contractor to carry out the earth moving at our Kwabeng, Pameng and Apapam Projects, then we anticipate leasing the workshops to the contractor as part of the contract.
Capital Expenditures
To commence full scale production at the Kwabeng, Pameng and Apapam Projects, with a view to generating revenues, we anticipate capital requirements of approximately a maximum of $6,000,000 as set out below:
(1)
This capital cost contemplates the purchase of mining equipment, which includes bull dozers, excavators, dump trucks, a front end loader and motor grader, and will be reduced by $3,000,000 in the event that we decide to lease such equipment through third parties.
XG Mining has commenced rehabilitating the Field Camp which includes installation of a communication system for Internet access, electronic mail, telephone and facsimile service and minor construction repairs.
Since completion of our Bulk Test, we commenced the recovery of gold from the mineralized material at our Kwabeng Project on April 24, 2007.
Banso and Muoso Projects
Our Banso and Muoso Projects consist of two concessions totaling 107.32 sq km. We hold one prospecting license, as more particularly described hereunder, for the Banso and Muoso concessions which is situated in the Eastern Region of Ghana approximately 80 kilometers north of Accra. These concessions lie in the Kibi-Winneba Gold Belt on the western flanks of the prominent Atewa Range, which is underlain by Birimian greenstone, phyllites, meta-tuffs, epi-diorite, meta-greywacke and chert. The valleys, over which the concessions are located, are underlain by thick sequences of Birimian metasediments. The north-western end of the Atewa Range is the type-locality for the Birimian metasediments and metavolcanics.
- 19 -
This area is one of the oldest placer gold mining areas of Ghana, dating back many centuries. Historical exploration and mining has mainly focused on placer gold. Prior to our acquisition of the Banso and Muoso concessions, to the best of our knowledge and based on mining records in Ghana, there has never been a detailed documented bedrock exploration program conducted on these concessions.
Our Banso and Muoso Project represents a “grassroots” or “greenfields” mineral exploration project. This Project is at an early stage of evaluation and no mineralized material or reserve estimates have been made. The present exploration activities on these concessions, including grid establishment, soil sampling, prospecting/geological mapping, pitting/trenching and geophysics, are aimed at identifying lode gold (hardrock) mineral occurrences to be further evaluated through drilling. We have completed preliminary lode gold exploration programs at our Banso and Muoso Project and have received the respective results as noted hereunder.
Access and Location
Muoso Concession
Access to the Muoso Concession is gained by driving northwest approximately 80 km from Accra on the paved Accra-Kumasi Trunk Road. This highway passes through the easternmost portion of the Muoso concession and shares a common boundary with the Kwabeng Concession. From the town of Osino, one would drive northwest approximately 5 km to the town of Anyinam, from which an all weather direct road heads south through the centre of the Muoso Concession and onto the Banso Concession, approximately 15 km south of the Accra-Kumasi Trunk Road. The town of Muoso is approximately 10 km from Anyinam. A number of dirt roads, trails and footpaths offer additional access to this concession. Our Project is located approximately 10 km south-southeast from our Field Camp.
Banso Concession
Access to the Banso Concession is gained by driving northwest approximately 136 km from Accra on the paved Accra-Kumasi Trunk Road. Our Project is located approximately 11 km south-southwest from our Field Camp.
Banso and Muoso Prospecting License
Our wholly-owned subsidiary, XGEL entered into a prospecting license with the Government of the Republic of Ghana (the “Government of Ghana”) on September 24, 2001 covering a licensed area of 107.32 sq km (the “Banso and Muoso Licensed Area”). The current term of the prospecting license has been renewed and expires on May 29, 2008. In March 2007, as part of our application for a further renewal of the prospecting license, we submitted the required terminal report in support of our application and will provide any additional documentation upon request which may include (i) a detailed financial report; (ii) a site plan indicating the areas to be retained and those to be shed off; (iii) evidence of annual ground rent payments; and (iv) an environmental permit from the EPA. Under the prospecting license, we have been granted the right and license by the Government of Ghana to conduct geological and geophysical investigations in the licensed area to determine adequate quantity of geologically proven and mineable reserve of gold and diamonds (directly or through agents, contractors or sub-contractors). The terms and conditions of the prospecting license include, among other things, our requirement to (i) conduct a preliminary pitting program (Phase I); (ii) conduct a reserve definition program (Phase II); and (iii) prepare an engineering/feasibility report (Phase III); (iv) provide an annual report in prescribed form within 60 days after each calendar year to various mining regulatory bodies and government authorities (collectively, the “Authorities”). We have the right to (i) assign or mortgage our interest in the prospecting license, subject to obtaining the consent of the Government of Ghana who may impose certain conditions in connection therewith; (ii) surrender our interest in the prospecting license; and (iii) renew the term of the prospecting license for a period of two years or such other renewal period may be granted in accordance with applicable mining laws of Ghana. The Government of Ghana has the right to terminate the prospecting license in the event we (i) fail to make payments when due; (ii) contravene or fail to comply with terms and conditions of the prospecting license; (iii) become insolvent or commit an act of bankruptcy; or (iv) submit false statements to the Government of Ghana. In any of the foregoing events, we have 21 days in which to remedy any of these occurrences. If upon expiration of prospecting license, we have fulfilled our obligations and have established to the Government of Ghana that development of a mine from ore reserves established within the licensed area is economical and financially feasible, the Government of Ghana shall grant us with first option to (i) acquire a lease for purposes of mining in the licensed area of the Banso and Muoso Project; and ii) participate in a mining project in the licensed area, subject to negotiation with the Government of Ghana of satisfactory terms for such license and participation.
- 20 -
Regional Exploration Program
On July 4, 2004, we commenced the first exploration stage on these concessions with fieldwork ending on August 23, 2004. We contracted with CME to conduct the exploration program. Fieldwork included stream sediment sampling, line cutting, GPS surveying of the grid and soil sampling. Acquisition and interpretation of airborne geophysical data and satellite imagery was also undertaken.
Results from the first phase of exploration evidenced a bedrock gold source within both the Banso and Muoso concessions. Silt sampling indicated significant gold values, with soil sampling showing several significant anomalous zones. The gold-in-soil anomalies appear to correlate with an interpreted contact between the Birimian volcanoclastics and metasediments.
Further Exploration Work
On April 27, 2005, we further contracted with CME to conduct a second stage exploration program at our Banso and Muoso Project located at the Banso and Muoso concessions. The work program included detailed grid establishment and soil sampling, ground magnetometer surveying, updating the geodatabase and recommendations for future work. The purpose of this program was to determine areas of gold mineralization at the Banso and Muoso concessions that can be followed up with induced polarization surveys, trenching and diamond drilling.
Fieldwork included the following:
Grid Establishment
Grid placement was based on the results from the 2004 regional work program . Four grids were established in the areas of primary interest, one on the Muoso concession and three on the Banso concession. The grids on the latter concession are referred to as Area 1, Area 2 and Area 3.
Soil sampling was undertaken along all grid lines established during this work program. From the 6,961 established stations, 177 locations were not sampled due to possible contamination from villages, streams and/or swamps.
A total of 6,516 samples were submitted for gold and 6,066 samples for arsenic analyses. A breakdown of the gold results per property area includes:
Results, Interpretation and Conclusions
Soil sample geochemistry has been completed over selected portions of the anomalous zones indicated by the 2004 regional sampling program. Work during the 2005 program suggests the presence of a bedrock source within both the Muoso and Banso concessions.
Values greater than the threshold value (mean + 2 standard deviations) of 0.063 ppm gold are considered to be anomalous. The term “ppm” represents “part per million” where 1 ppm = 1 gram per tonne (g/t) = 1,000 part per billion (ppb). On the Muoso concession 284 samples (9%) out of the 3,318 samples submitted for gold analyses yielded values greater than the threshold value; while at Banso 152 samples (5%) out of the 3,198 samples submitted for gold analyses yielded values greater than the 0.063 ppm Au threshold value.
- 21 -
At the southwest boundary of the concession several gold-in-soil anomalies appear, the largest of which measures 350 meters in length and up to 300 meters in width. Immediately below this is an easterly trending anomaly with a strike length of approximately 300 meters and a width of approximately 75 meters.
At Muoso the most significant gold-in-soil anomalies occur along the inferred location of the northeast-southwest trending dolerite dyke. Secondary anomalies occur to the east of this dyke and are oriented sub-parallel to the strike of the dyke. These may represent possible structural events (shears/faults) lying along geological contacts (planes of weakness). In the southwest portion of the grid, a possible north-south to northwest-southeast trending gold anomaly is coincident with inferred faulting in similar directions. In the southwestern area of the Muoso grid, two of the arsenic anomalies flank the sides of the north-south trending gold anomaly.
At Banso, each of the three grids outlined two gold-in-soil anomalies. The Area I anomalies trend northwest-southeast and occur at the junction of cross cutting structures. Within Area 2 and 3, linear gold anomalies trend northeast-southwest, parallel to the regional geological trend. The western most gold anomaly in Area 3 flanks the margins of a strong magnetic high (possible intrusive). Arsenic anomalies at Banso typically occur on hill/ridge tops with the gold anomalies flanking the sides of the arsenic anomalies.
The soil sampling program at Banso was successful in locating a number of gold-in-soil anomalies (> 0.063 ppm Au), the most significant of these is located about 400 meters NE of Abesim Township (i.e. Area 3). This anomalous zone has an average width of about 50 meters and a length of about 500 meters and follows the northeasterly regional geological trend.
Recommendations
The following staged exploration program was recommended to further advance the geological knowledge of the concessions:
●
An estimated 200 kilometers of grid to be cut at Muoso and Banso. This will include the extension of selected existing lines and the establishment of new ones. In addition, soil sampling, geochemical analysis, GPS and ground magnetometer surveys should be conducted on the newly established grid lines.
●
A grid should be established within the eastern areas of the Muoso concession, and soil samples collected, to follow up on anomalous silt samples taken in the previous sample program.
●
At Banso, a grid should be cut within the northern portion to cover those areas that returned anomalous silt samples. Additional soil sampling is proposed to confirm and further define the anomalous area.
●
Auger sampling to depths of 2.5 meters should be conducted on both concessions testing sites that returned greater than 0.1 ppm gold in soils.
●
Trenches are recommended at selected sites at both concessions to investigate gold-in-soil anomalies and the relationship the anomalies have to geology/structure. An estimated 300 meters of trenching, to 3.0 meter depth, is recommended.
●
Approximately 50 line kilometers of surface IP surveying may be carried out on priority areas as identified in previous sampling/work programs.
Phase II Exploration Program
We entered into a Phase II exploration contract in September 2006 with CME incorporating some of the above recommendations, including additional grid establishment, soil geochemical surveying, and prospecting on the Muoso concession; and a pitting/trenching program designed to test the geochemical signature at depth of the three primary gold-in-soil anomalies detected on the Banso concession by the Phase I exploration program (i.e. Banso Area 1, 2, 3).
The work program for this project was completed in December 2006 at a cost of approximately $200,000. The results of this program are noted hereunder.
- 22 -
The Phase II exploration program commenced on September 27, 2006 with fieldwork ending December 2, 2006 on the Muoso and Banso Concessions. Work included the following:
●
Grid establishment (Muoso Concession): 67.4 line-km;
●
Soil sampling: 2,338 samples collected, 1,438 sample submitted for gold analysis;
●
Rock sampling: 177 samples;
●
GPS surveying: 67.4 km;
●
Trenching and pitting (Banso Concession): 4 trenches (80.2 meters) and 61 pits, 183 horizontal channel samples, 197 vertical channel samples, 24 rock samples.
Muoso Concession Soil and Rock Sampling
(A)
Grid Layout / Soil Sampling Methodology
The present soil sampling program encompasses a combined semi-detailed (200m) and detailed (100m) soil sampling grid (67.4 km) covering the eastern 5.5 km portion of the Muoso concession. Grid placement was designed to cover the Birimian volcanic-sediment contact and an inferred NE - trending regional structure; which we believe represent highly favorable environments for the hosting of lode gold deposits throughout Ghana.
A total of 2,338 soil samples were collected from all cross lines with 1,438 samples submitted for gold analyses. All samples collected from the 100 meter spaced lines were submitted for analysis. Along 200 meter spaced lines, every second sample was submitted for analysis. The held back samples may be submitted at a later date to bracket any anomalous samples. Rock sampling was undertaken concurrent with the soil sampling program. A total of 166 rock samples were collected at Muoso with sample collection typically confined to the immediate vicinity of grid lines.
(B)
Soil / Rock Sampling Results
Soil sampling from the current program extended the grid to the east and identified significant geochemical anomalies over this portion of the concession. Values greater than the threshold value (mean + 2 standard deviations) of 0.10 ppm gold are considered to be anomalous. The term “ppm” represents “part per million” where 1 ppm = 1 gram per tonne (g/t) = 1,000 part per billion (ppb). 152 samples (11%) out of the 1,438 samples submitted for gold analyses yielded values greater than the 0.10 ppm gold threshold value; including 53 samples (4%) returning values greater than 0.20 ppm gold. Contouring of the gold in soil results suggests an “S-fold” geochemical anomaly (> 0.10 ppm Au) in the very eastern part of the concession.
Rock sampling in the northern portion of the anomaly (around the highway) returned no significant results. The geochemical anomaly here is located in the valley of the Birim River and may be an alluvial (paleoplacer) occurrence.
Three (3) rock samples collected in the southern part of the anomaly yielded anomalous gold values from oxidized quartz and phyllite floats. These rock floats are located up on the hillsides in the soil anomaly, well out of any obvious alluvial influence, thus indicating the potential for lode gold mineralization in the vicinity.
- 23 -
A second linear anomaly (> 0.10 ppm Au) is present, extending 4.5 km in an ESE direction from 9000E/18800N to 12750E/21200N. The anomaly is narrow (100 to 150 meters) and tends to occasionally pinch-out. Airborne geophysical and LANDSAT interpretation (Naas, 2004) identifies a possible correlating ESE-trending structure (fault?) although it requires extending that structure to the east. Another interpreted structure, trending SE may intersect the aforementioned structure in the area of the previously described geochemical anomaly.
Banso Pitting / Trenching Program
(A)
Pit / Trench Program Design and Sampling Methodology
A pitting - trenching program was carried out to test the geochemical signature at depth of the three primary gold-in-soil anomalies detected on the Banso concession by the Phase I exploration program (i.e. Banso Area 1, 2, 3). Single sample anomalies were pitted, while two or more continuous soil sample anomalies were trenched.
Pits were dug manually by pickaxes and shovels; with pit dimensions typically being 1 meter wide by 2 meters long by 3 meters deep. Two horizontal samples and three vertical samples were collected from all the pits that reached the saprolite. Only vertical samples were collected from pits that did not reach saprolite. Grab and chip samples were also collected from quartz veins and veinlets. A total of 305 samples were collected from 61 pits excavated according to the following distribution in the Area 1, 2, and 3 gold-in-soil anomalies.
●
25 pits (125 samples) from Area 1;
●
13 pits (65 samples) from Area 2; and
●
23 pits (115 samples) from Area 3.
Trenches were also dug manually to a width of one meter and an average depth of 3.0 meters. The four trenches excavated on the Area 3 anomaly consisted of one 50 meter trench and three 10 meter trenches. All trenches encountered saprolite. A total of 80 horizontal samples were collected at 1 meter intervals approximately 0.20 meter above the trench floor.
(B)
Pitting / Trenching and Rock Sampling Results
The current pitting - trenching program tested the gold-in-soil anomalies in the subsurface, preferably in the saprolite horizon.
Area 1 / Area 2
Two pits out of the 25 pits excavated in Area 1 and one pit out of the 13 pits in Area 2 returned anomalous gold results. But these anomalous values reflect auriferous quartz gravels of probable alluvial provenance.
Area 3
Pitting - trenching and surface rock sampling in the eastern portion of the Area 3 grid returned exploration - significant results indicative of potential lode gold mineralization in the vicinity.
- 24 -
Vertical sampling in Pit 3P2 returned a length weighted average grade of 1.36 ppm Au over 1.70 meters and horizontal sampling yielded a length weighted average grade of 1.69 ppm Au over 2.10 meters. The term “ppm” represents “part per million” where 1 ppm = 1 gram per tonne (g/t) = 1,000 part per billion (ppb). A 0.4 meter channel sample across a vein present in this pit returned 0.75 ppm Au. Pit 3P6 returned exploration - significant results of 1.91 ppm over 1.00 meters (vertical) and 1.74 ppm Au over 1.00 meters (horizontal). The former is from the upper (near-surface) horizon. The latter appears associated with quartz veining observed in the saprolite. Quartz veins were mapped in many pits and are generally associated with the anomalous gold values, though the converse is not necessarily true.
The four trenches (3T1 to 3T4) were excavated along a single line (1400N) between 11570E and 11680E. Eleven samples (14%) out of the 80 channel samples (1 meter) collected from the four (4) trenches yielded anomalous gold values (> 0.10 ppm Au). Trench sampling returned similar sub economic but exploration - significant results as with the pits. Trench 3T4 yielded a length weighted average grade of 0.41 ppm Au over 4.0 meters; with the mineralization appearing to be associated with a quartz vein oriented at 324 (degree)/30 (degree) E. A similar modest mineralized zone in 3T3 of 0.16 ppm Au over 4.00 meters is associated with a quartz vein stringer zone oriented similarly at 315 (degree)/30 (degree) E. In 3T2, a zone returning 0.29 ppm Au over 2.00 meters appears associated with veins oriented at 220 (degree)/50-58 (degree) W. Structural understanding based on the limited vein exposure precludes any conclusions at this point.
Rock sampling (11 samples) in the vicinity of the trenches and pits returned three (3) anomalous gold values from massive quartz boulders. This suggests a potential lode source for gold in this area.
(C)
Recommendations
Recommended work to further advance the project includes:
(I)
The gold-in-soil anomalies of the Muoso Concession should be pitted and trenched where consecutive anomalies exist;
(II)
A total of 10 kilometers of soil sampling is recommended at the Banso Concession. This includes the extension of selected existing lines and the establishment of new ones; and
(III)
Rock sampling should continue throughout the Concessions. The estimated cost of the follow-up exploration program is $175,000.
A hand auger program is currently being implemented at Muoso by Xtra-Gold’s exploration staff to test the geochemical signature of the gold-in-sold anomalies at depth in order to better define trenching targets. Reconnaissance trenching is also ongoing at the Banso Area 3 gold-in-soil anomaly to gain additional structural information of the veining.
No ore reserves have been identified on the Banso and Muoso Projects.
- 25 -
The Apapam Project
Access and Location
Our Apapam Project concession lies within the Kibi-Winneba area in the Eastern Region of Ghana and is located on the eastern flank of the Atewa Range along the headwaters of the Birim River in the immediate vicinity of the district capital of Kibi, approximately 75 km NNW of the nation’s capital city of Accra. Access to our Apapam Project is by driving northwest from Accra on the paved Accra-Kumasi Trunk Road which is the main national highway for approximately 90 km until the town of Kibi, marked by a road sign, is reached. One would make a left hand turn at the Kibi sign and drive southwest for approximately 5 km to arrive at our Apapam concession. A tarred road emanating from the Accra-Kumasi Trunk Road approximately 15 km northeast of Kibi dissects the north-central and south-eastern portions of our concession, while the tarred road servicing the town of Apapam provides access to the concession’s south-western extremity. Our Apapam Project is located approximately 20 km south-southeast from our Field Camp.
The Kibi-Winneba area is characterized by a narrow sequence of Birimian metavolcanics underlying most of the Atewa Range, which is covered by an extensive laterite/bauxite capping, and surrounded by a thick package of Birimian metasediments dominating the flanks and the lower lying areas. Our Apapam Project covers the Birimian volcanic-sediment contact which we believe represents a highly favorable environment for the hosting of lode gold deposits throughout Ghana.
Very little systematic exploration work for bedrock gold deposits has been conducted in the Kibi area since the 1930s. Recent exploration activity in the district appears to be limited to an airborne geophysical survey flown by Ashanti Goldfields and a regional lode-gold occurrence compilation undertaken by Sikaman Gold Resources - BHP Minerals in the mid-1990s.
Phase I Exploration Program
A first phase exploration program was implemented by geological consultant CME on the Apapam concession from August 12 to September 23, 2006. The Phase I exploration program undertaken in 2006 consisted of regional stream sediment sampling, followed by gridded soil sampling, rock sampling and detailed sampling of several adits located 400 meters northwest of Kibi. The work program for this Project was completed at a cost of approximately $100,000. The results of this program are noted hereunder.
In addition, a reconnaissance geology / prospecting program covering the west-central portion of the Apapam concession was also intermittently implemented by the Xtra-Gold exploration staff from November 2006 to February 2007. The results to date from the various surveys show very promising evidence for the presence of a bedrock gold source within the Apapam concession.
Phase I fieldwork consisted of the following
●
Concession-wide stream sediment sampling survey (88 samples collected from 44 sites);
●
Survey grid establishment (33.78 line-km);
●
Soil sampling (1,306 samples);
●
GPS surveying (33.78 line-km);
●
Rock sampling (89 samples); and
●
Historical adit and bulldozer cut sampling (100 samples).
Stream Sediment Sampling
A total of 88 samples were collected from 44 sample sites from two major streams and their respective tributaries; including 44 silt samples for geochemical analysis (BLEG) and 44 pan concentrate samples for visual gold grain counts.
- 26 -
Values greater than the threshold value (mean + 2 standard deviations) of 0.14 ppm are considered to be anomalous. Five (5) samples (11%) yielded values greater than the threshold value. Gold grain count of the pan concentrates showed visible gold grains in 36 of the 44 samples (82%); with the average gold grain count per sample being five (5) small grains.
The stream sediment anomalies are divided into two zones as follows:
Zone A (Adansu Anomaly): Consists of 1.5 km stretch from Line 158+00N westwards at an average width of 1.0 km along the northwestern boundary of the concession
Zone B (Kokorabo Anomaly): Consists of 3.0 km stretch by 2.0 km in width to cover the area between the southwestern boundary of the concession and the floodplains of river Birim and river Krensen
A total of 1,306 soil samples were collected from 30.58 line - kilometers of cross lines established within the Kibi North and Kibi South survey grids. Grid location was based on testing historical mineral occurrences located on and around Kibi Mountain (Kibi North Grid) and promising silt samples results from creeks southeast of Kibi (Kibi South Grid). Line spacing was 100-meter interval within the Kibi Mountain area of the North Grid and 400 meters elsewhere within the gridded areas. Soil samples were collected at a depth of 60 cm at 25 meter intervals along the SE - NW trending grid lines. Soil samples were by analyzed by Fire Assay and reported in parts per billion (1 ppb = 0.001 ppm). The term “ppm” represents “part per million” where 1 ppm = 1 gram per tonne (g/t) = 1,000 part per billion (ppb).
The geochemical soil survey conducted on the Apapam concession produced several interesting gold-in-soil anomalies that are listed below. A geochemical trend of 050-060(degree) (ENE-WSW) is in conformity with the regional geological trend. Values greater than the threshold value (mean plus 2 standard deviations) of 0.098 ppm gold are considered to be anomalous . A total of 105 samples (8% out of the 1,306 samples submitted for analysis produced gold-in-soil values greater than the threshold value of 0.098 ppm gold.
Area 1: The area consists of the following 50 meter to 125 meter wide anomalous zones extending over a minimum 200 meter distance on three (3) adjacent grid lines. The limits of this anomaly located on the northwestern flank of Kibi Mountain are well defined by the present soil survey.
●
L163+00N, from 51+75E to 52+75E (100 meters), 5 samples average 0.12 ppm Au
●
L164+00N, from 51+75E to 53+00E (125 meters), 6 samples averaging 0.25 ppm Au
●
L165+00N, from 52+75E to 53+25E (50 meters), 3 samples averaging 0.21 ppm Au
Area 2: The area is defined by three (3) 125 meter to 250 meter wide anomalous zones extending over a 600 meter distance on the following three (3) grid lines. Further detailed soil sampling is required to well define limits of the area.
●
L166+00N, from 39+75E to 42+25E (250 meters), 11 samples averaging 0.27 ppm Au
●
L170+00N, from 44+00E to 45+75E (175 meters), 8 samples averaging 0.41 ppm Au
●
L172+00N, from 45+75E to 47+00E (125 meters), 6 samples averaging 0.30 ppm Au
Area 3: This area consists of a single 225 meter wide gold-in-soil anomalous zone extending from 42+75E to 45+00E on L 158+00N (10 samples averaging 0.23 ppm Au). Further detailed soil sampling is required to well define limits of the area.
Area 4: This area consists of a single 100 meter wide gold-in-soil anomalous zone extending from 41+00E to 42+00E on L 170+00N (5 samples averaging 0.18 ppm Au). Further detailed soil sampling is required to well define limits of the area.
- 27 -
Rock and Historical Adit Sampling
A total of 89 rock (float) samples were collected during stream sediment and soil sampling traversing. In addition, three historical adits ranging from 7 to 85 meters in length and a bedrock face exposed along a bulldozer cut, located on and in the vicinity of Kibi Mountain were also sampled during the Apapam Phase I exploration program. A total of 77 channel samples were collected from the three adits and 23 samples from the bulldozer cut face. Rock and adit samples were analyzed by Fire Assay and reported in parts per billion (1 ppb = 0.001 ppm). Rock and adit samples returning greater than 1,000 ppb (1.0 ppm) gold were re-analyzed by Fire Assay with results reported in grams per metric tonne (1 g/t = 1.0 ppm). The term “ppm” represents “part per million” where 1 ppm = 1 gram per tonne (g/t) = 1,000 part per billion (ppb).
Seven (8%) out of the 89 rock (float) samples returned anomalous gold values greater than the threshold value (mean + 2 standard deviations). Three adits and a bulldozer cut were located and sampled during the current exploration program. Adit 1 was extensively sampled but no significant values reported. Adit 2 has indicated potential for lode gold mineralization in the Kibi Mountain area. Three (3) channel samples collected in this adit returned a length weighted average grade of 3.47 ppm Au over 3.80 meters; including 6.36 ppm over 1.7 meters. Adit 2 falls within the Area 1 gold-in- soil anomaly. No significant values were returned from Adit 3, although sampling was not able to reach the end of the adit due to unsafe ground conditions. The channel sampling (23 samples) of the bedrock face exposed in the bulldozer cut on the southwest side of Kibi Mountain returned a single anomalous value of 1.52 ppm Au over a 1.00 meter length.
Reconnaissance Geology / Prospecting Program
A reconnaissance geology / prospecting program covering the west-central portion of the Apapam concession was intermittently implemented by the Xtra-Gold exploration staff from November 2006 to February 2007. The program was initiated to follow-up on the anomalous gold-in-silt sample results returned by the 2006 concession - wide stream sediment sampling program (i.e. Zone A - Adansu Anomaly).
The reconnaissance program identified a 150 meter long, NW - trending gold anomalous float train located approximately 400m west-northwest of the anomalous gold-in-silt sample yielded by the Adansu stream. The rock floats typically consist of strongly silicified metavolcanic cross-cut by sheeted to stockworked quartz stringers exhibiting disseminated boxworks after pyrite.
An historical rock pit was also located within the west-central portion of the concession. Grab samples collected from sheared quartz - iron carbonate veining within the 3.5 meter deep pit returned anomalous gold values. This auriferous vein occurrence is located approximately 550 meters west-northwest of the open - ended Area 3 gold-in- soil anomaly described in the above Soil Sampling section.
Recommended work to further advance the project includes: (a) reconnaissance soil sample gridding for the evaluation of the two (2) anomalous areas defined by the stream sediment sampling, and the auriferous float train and rock pit areas identified during the in-house reconnaissance geology program; (b) and detailed soil sampling and / or pitting - trenching to further define the limits of the four (4) gold-in-soil anomalies and to test their geochemical signature at depth.
Phase II Exploration Program
A reconnaissance trenching program was intermittently implemented by the Xtra- Gold exploration staff from February 2007 to December 2007 on the Apapam concession. The trenching was carried out to test the geochemical signature at depth of the gold-in-soil anomalies detected within the north-western portion of the concession during the Phase I work program and to obtain additional geological / structural information in order to optimize the design of detail trenching and drilling targets. A total of 542 channel samples were collected from 21 trenches totaling 1,090 linear - meters.
- 28 -
In order to obtain an independent assessment of the 2007 Xtra-Gold trenching results, a National Instrument 43-101 compliant data verification program was undertaken by CME Consultants Inc. (“CME”) from December 3 to 7, 2007. The program involved the resampling of selected trenches which yielded exploration - significant gold mineralization intervals. CME is a Canada-based geological consultancy with over 15 years of project management experience in Ghana. The Apapam data validation program was implemented under the direct supervision of a professional geologist registered with the Association of Professional Engineers and Geoscientists of British Columbia. The trenching program results noted hereunder correspond to the results returned by the independent CME data verification program.
Trenching; Methodoly / Targets
A total of 21 trenches ranging from 2 meters to 224 meters in length were excavated by Xtra-Gold personnel within the north-western portion of the Apapam concession during the 2007 reconnaissance trenching program. A total of 542 channel samples (2 meters) were collected from the 21 trenches totaling 1,090 linear - meters. Trenches were manually excavated by pickaxes and shovels to a typical width of 1 meter and an average depth of 3 meters, with some sections of the trenches reaching 4.0 meters in depth. Trenching typically extended down to the saprolite horizon but locally the saprolite could not be reached due to safety concerns. Trench specifications are presented in Table 1 below
The bulk of the trenching efforts, including 8 trenches totaling 834 linear - meters (approx. 75%), focused on testing the Area #1, #2, and #3 gold-in-soil anomalies detected during the 2006 Phase I work program. Five (5) trenches totaling 112 meters were excavated to test the subsurface along the train of gold anomalous rock floats encountered during the November 2006 reconnaissance geology / prospecting program (i.e. Ahwiniase Area). An additional 8 trenches totaling 144 meters were excavated to test the subsurface in the general area of the historical rock pit also discovered during said prospecting program (i.e. Adadietem Area).
Table 1: Trench Specifications - Apapam Concession
Note:
Trenches #TAD001 and #TAD004 extend from a common point of origin in opposite directions resulting in one continuous trench.
- 29 -
(ii)
Trenching Results / CME Data Verification Program
Based on past work experience in Ghana, the Xtra-Gold geological personnel arbitrarily established channel sample intervals yielding weighted average grades greater than 1.0 ppm gold has been exploration significant. The term “ppm” represents “part per million” where 1 ppm = 1 gram per tonne (g/t) = 1,000 part per billion (ppb). Nevertheless, anomalous channel sample results below the 1.0 ppm gold threshold remain of considerable exploration interest and will be subjected to further investigation. Sixty-one (61) out of the 542 channel samples (11%) yielded gold values greater than the 1.0 ppm exploration - significant threshold.
Four (4) out of the 21 trenches yielded length - weighted average grade intervals greater than the arbitrarily set exploration - significant threshold of 1.0 ppm gold, including: trench #TKB003 in gold-in-soil anomaly Area #1 (i.e. Kibi Mountain); trenches #TKB004 and #TKB005 in gold-in-soil anomaly Area #2; and trench #TAD001 in the Adadietem Area.
The independent data verification program undertaken by CME from December 3 to 7, 2007 encompassed the complete resampling of the exploration - significant intervals (= 1.0 ppm Au)from the four (4) above noted trenches. The CME resampling included 116 channel samples totaling 115.41 linear meters. Sampling consisted of a horizontal channel cut along the sidewall of the trench, approximately 0.2 meters above the trench floor. Sampling was typically established at one meter intervals, with sample lengths locally adjusted to accommodate geological features.
Forty-six (46) out of the 116 channel samples (39.5%) collected by CME returned values greater than 1.0 ppm gold. Exploration - significant gold intervals (= 1 ppm Au) from the independent data validation program are presented in Table 2. Note that all the weighted average grade intervals represent trench lengths and are not necessarily indicative of the true widths of the mineralization. Calculation of true widths within trenches can be difficult, as not all geological features are properly exposed. In addition, these mineralized intervals currently represent isolated features for which no strike extension can be measured due to the relatively long distances between the trenches; additional infill soil sampling and trenching is required to define the actual strike length of the mineralization.
At Apapam, gold mineralization has been found to occur in several different geological features, including steeply and flat - lying quartz veins and alteration haloes proximate to the quartz veining. The presence of shallow dipping (“flat lying”) veins may produce an exaggeration in both the width and grade of the mineralization. The effect of shallow veining is apparent in trench #TKB004 where a 4.07 ppm gold grade over a 11.0 meter trench - length is estimated to represent a true width of 3 to 4 meters due to the flat lying nature of the quartz veins. As previously noted calculation of true widths within trenches can be difficult, as not all the geological features are properly exposed.
Table 2: Significant Trench Intersections - Apapam Concession
(1)
Apparent Width: Estimated to represent a true width of 3 to 4 meters based on shallow dipping (“flat lying”) nature of the quartz veining.
Note:
All intersections represent trench lengths and are not necessarily indicative of the true width of the mineralization.
- 30 -
Samples taken during the data verification program were analyzed at Eco Tech Laboratory Ltd., an ISO9001 registered laboratory located in British Columbia, Canada. Prepared samples are weighed to 30 grams and fused along with proper fluxing materials. The bead is digested in aqua regia and analyzed on an atomic absorption instrument. Values are reported in parts per billion (1 ppb = 0.001 ppm or 0.001 g/t). Samples returning greater than 500 ppb (0.5 ppm) gold were reanalysed by the metallic gold assay method. The purpose of this analysis was to determine if there was a “nugget effect” with the gold mineralization. The process involved taking minus 140 mesh fraction, homogenize it, then take 2 samples sub samples for gold fire assay. The plus 140 mesh material was assayed in its entirely. The resultant fire assay bead is digested with acid and after parting is analyzed on a Perkin Elmer atomic absorption machine using air-acetylene flame to 0.03 grams/tonne (0.03 ppm) detection limit. Results are collated by computer and are printed along with accompanying quality control data (repeats and standards).
Conclusions / Recommendations
The results to date from the various surveys and trenching indicate that the Apapam concession exhibits potential for the hosting of economic lode gold mineralization. No ore reserves have been identified on the Banso and Muoso Project.
Recommended work to further advance the project includes: (a) infill soil sampling to further define the gold-in-soil anomalies; (b) additional trenching to further define the geological / structural nature and extent of the mineralization; and (c) diamond drilling. The estimated cost of the follow-up exploration program is $815,000.
Prospecting License - Apapam Project
XG Mining entered into a prospecting license with respect to our Apapam Project with The Government of Ghana on March 29, 2004 covering a licensed area of 33.65 sq km (the “Apapam Licensed Area”).
This prospecting license had an initial two year term with renewal provisions. The current term of the prospecting license has been renewed and expires on June 12, 2008. In March 2007, as part of our application for a further renewal of the prospecting license, we submitted the required terminal report in support of our application and will provide any additional documentation upon request which may include (i) a detailed financial report; (ii) a site plan indicating the areas to be retained and those to be shed off; (iii) evidence of annual ground rent payments; and (iv) an environmental permit from the EPA. Under the prospecting license, we have been granted the right and license by the Government of Ghana to conduct geological and geophysical investigations in the licensed area to determine adequate quantity of geologically proven and mineable reserve of gold and diamonds (directly or through agents, contractors or sub- contractors). The future planned work program at our Apapam Project includes, among other things, (i) conducting pitting/trenching programs; (ii) additional detailed soil sampling; (iii) bedrock mapping and sampling; (iv) possible IP surveys; (v) drilling to be contingent upon exploration results. We are required to provide an annual report in prescribed form within 60 days after each calendar year to various mining regulatory bodies and government authorities (collectively, the “Authorities”). We have the right to (i) assign or mortgage our interest in the prospecting license, subject to obtaining the consent of the Government of Ghana who may impose certain conditions in connection therewith; (ii) surrender our interest in the prospecting license; and (iii) renew the term of the prospecting license for a period of two years or such other renewal period may be granted in accordance with the applicable mining laws of Ghana. The Government of Ghana has the right to terminate the prospecting license in the event we (i) fail to make payments when due; (ii) contravene or fail to comply with terms and conditions of prospecting license; (iii) become insolvent or commit an act of bankruptcy; or (iv) submit false statements to the Government of Ghana. In any of the foregoing events, we have 21 days in which to remedy any of these occurrences. If upon expiration of prospecting license, we have fulfilled our obligations and have established to the Government of Ghana that development of a mine from ore reserves established within the licensed area is economical and financially feasible, the Government of Ghana shall grant us with first option to (i) acquire a lease for purposes of mining in the licensed area of our Apapam Project; and (ii) participate in a mining project in the licensed area, subject to negotiation with the Government of Ghana of satisfactory terms for such mining lease and participation.
We have submitted an application to the Minerals Commission to convert the prospecting license to a mining lease. We anticipate receiving a response to our application within the next six months.
- 31 -
A summary of the application procedure, steps and documentation required to upgrade from or convert a prospecting license (“PL”) to a mining lease (“ML”) are as follows:
(a)
The holder of a prospecting license (the “Licensee”) submits a terminal report on the prospecting activities to the Minerals Commission in Ghana (“Mincom”), together with an application to convert into such PL to a ML.
(b)
The application for a ML must be supported by a bankable feasibility report that confirms a commercially mineable gold deposit within the concession.
(c)
An environmental permit from the EPA must be obtained after an Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) has been conducted.
(d)
A water permit from the Water Resources Commission must be obtained to abstract water for the mining project.
(e)
A forestry permit must be issued by the Forestry Commission to the applicant (i.e., if the lease area falls within a forest reserve).
(f)
Mincom recommends the grant issue of a ML to the Minister of Lands, Forestry and Mines, provided that Mincom is satisfied that all above are in place.
(g)
Once the ML has been issued, it must be duly stamped, registered at the Deeds Registry and submitted for ratification by Parliament in accordance with Article 268 (2) of the 1992 Constitution.
(h)
The consideration fee chargeable by Mincom for issue or grant of a ML is currently $50,000. The timeline for the estimated reviews and/or hearings are as follows:
Minister, Lands, Forestry and Mines
Review and issuance of ML
2 weeks
The bankable feasibility study may be done in-house or through independent consultants. It is a multi-faceted study covering all aspects of the mining project such as geological, mining engineering, metallurgical, economics, environment and social. The cost of a feasibility study is dependent on many variables including the size of the concession, personnel involved (in-house or external) and the location of the project. Reasonable cost estimates for such a study range from $50,000 to $150,000.
The Edum Banso Project
Access and Location
Our Edum Banso Project lies within the south Ashanti gold belt in the Western Region of Ghana and is located approximately 235 kilometers west of Accra and 15 kilometers northwest of Takoradi, the regional capital.
Access to the Project is by asphalt road from Accra to Takoradi and by gravel road from Takoradi to Edum Banso through the town of Apowa. Internal access within the concession area is quite poor, however there are many footpaths that interconnect the scattered settlements within this concession. Our Edum Banso Project is located approximately 200 km southwest from our Field Camp.
Option Agreement for Prospecting License
Our wholly-owned subsidiary, XGEL entered into an option agreement dated October 17, 2005 (the “Adom Option Agreement”) with Adom Mining Ltd. (“Adom”), a 100% wholly registered Ghanaian company, who is the registered proprietor of a prospecting license which Adom entered into with The Government of Ghana on May 8, 1991, covering a licensed area of 20.60 sq km (the “Edum Banso Licensed Area”). This prospecting license has a current term expiring on July 21, 2008.
- 32 -
Previously, Newmont Ghana Limited (“Newmont”) had entered into an option agreement with Adom in connection with the Edum Banso Project, however abandoned their interest.
Under the terms and conditions of the prospecting license, Adom has the right to prospect for and prove gold under or in the licensed area including the right to conduct such geological and geophysical investigations in the licensed area in order to determine an adequate quantity of geologically proven and mineable reserve of gold (directly or through agents, contractors or sub-contractors). Under the prospecting license, the holder has the right to (i) assign or mortgage its interest in the prospecting license, subject to obtaining the consent of the Government of Ghana who may impose certain conditions in connection therewith; (ii) surrender its interest in the prospecting license; and (iii) renew the term of the prospecting license for a period of two years or such other renewal period may be granted in accordance with applicable mining laws of Ghana.
The Government of Ghana has the right to terminate the prospecting license in the event the holder of the prospecting license (i) fails to make payments when due; (ii) contravenes or fails to comply with terms and conditions of prospecting license; (iii) becomes insolvent or commits an act of bankruptcy; or (iv) submits false statements to the Government of Ghana. In any of the foregoing events, the holder will have 21 days in which to remedy any of these occurrences. If upon expiration of prospecting license, the holder has fulfilled its obligations and has established to the Government of Ghana that development of a mine from ore and reserves established within the licensed area is economical and financially feasible, the Government of Ghana shall grant the holder with first option to (i) acquire a license for purposes of mining gold in the licensed area of the Edum Banso concession; and (ii) participate in mining project in licensed area, subject to negotiation with the Government of Ghana of satisfactory terms for such license and participation.
At the time of execution of the Adom Option Agreement, we paid Adom $5,000 as consideration for entering into the agreement with us. We are required to pay Adom additional payments of $5,000 on the anniversary date of the Adom Option Agreement for each year that we hold an interest in such agreement. The term of the Adom Option Agreement is for five years. There are no other termination rights available to Adom.
We are required to make an additional payment of $200,000 to Adom at the time of commencement of the production of gold in or on the Edum Banso Project; provided, however in the event less than two million ounces of proven and probable reserves are discovered in or on the Edum Banso Project, this payment shall be reduced to $100,000. Under the terms and conditions of the Adom Option Agreement, Adom has granted XGEL the sole and exclusive right and option to acquire all of its right, title and interest in the prospecting license, which option may be exercised by XGEL at any time during the term. Adom has further granted XGEL the exclusive right of free and unrestricted access to the Edum Banso Project to explore, develop and, provided XGEL has exercised the option, to mine, extract, remove and sell any and all ores, minerals, concentrates or other products from the Edum Banso Project. Upon XGEL’s written election to exercise the option, Adom shall forthwith transfer the prospecting license to XGEL, subject only to a reserved royalty of 2% of the net smelter returns (“NSR”) from all ores, minerals or other products mined and removed from the Edum Banso Project and sold by XGEL. In the event less than two million ounces of proven and probable reserves are discovered in or on the Adom Project, the reserved royalty shall be 1% of the NSR. Adom has granted XGEL the exclusive right and option, exercisable by XGEL at any time to purchase the entirety of the reserved royalty for the sum of $2,000,000. No payment of the actual NSR shall be credited toward the reserved royalty purchase price. In the event less than two million ounces of proven and probable reserves are discovered in or on the Edum Banso Project, the reserved royalty purchase price shall be $1,000,000. Pursuant to the terms of an amending agreement entered into between the parties on October 19, 2006, XGEL has the right, without the prior consent of Adom, to assign or transfer its rights under the Option Agreement and the option to any affiliate or third party or to enter into a joint venture in connection therewith provided that any assignment, transfer or joint venture by XGEL shall be subject to agreement by the assignee, transferee or joint venture partner to be bound by the terms of this agreement.
Reserves
There are no proven (measured) reserves reported on this Project at this time.
Geology
The Edum Banso concession is underlain by basic to intermediate metavolcanic rocks, volcanoclastic rocks, greywackes and phyllites of the Upper Birimian Formation. These rocks are intruded by Dixcove suite granites in the north, mainly composed of hornblende granites, granodiorites, and gabbros and diorites in the south. Similar intrusive granites in Ghana have been proven to host disseminated sulphide hosted gold mineralization. Two major thrust faults interpreted from aeromagnetic data run north by northeast through the project area.
- 33 -
Historic Work
The only gold production on the concession was from local miners working the auriferous gravels and quartz veins as reported by J.W. Lunn in the 1930s. Amercosa (formerly AngloAmerican) reportedly worked on the project in the late 1990’s, however the results from this work are not published. St. Jude Resources, a Canadian public mining company, conducted geophysical surveys including magnetic and induced polarization surveys. The prospective structures identified in these surveys were followed up by geochemical surveys which included soil, trench and pit sampling.
Stream sediment sampling throughout the entire concession area by Newmont Mining in 2003 defined a broad anomalous gold zone approximately 7 km long by 1.5 km wide, roughly conforming to the regional geological trend. Follow-up soil (1,109 samples) and rock sampling by Newmont in 2004 further constrained this broadly anomalous area into two distinctive anomalies, while geophysical interpretation suggests they are coincident with the surface expression of two major North-South oriented thrust faults.
Phase I Exploration Program
A first phase exploration program (the “Phase I Work Program”) was implemented on the Edum Banso concession from August 2007 to January 2008 by Torkornoo & Associates Limited (“TAL”), at a cost of approximately $177,000. TAL is a Ghanaian geological consultancy with the principal being a professional geologist registered with The Australasian Institute of Mining and Metallurgy (AusIMM).
Based on the complex structural nature of gold deposits identified to date by Third Parties within the Hwini-Butre/Benso-Subriso gold district, the Phase I Work Program encompassed infill soil sampling, reconnaissance geology / prospecting, hand auger sampling and trenching designed to identify cost-effective drill targets. The tighter soil geochemical coverage (200m) was implemented to better define the length - extents and trends of the gold-in-soil anomalies detected by the historical Newmont soil program (2004). The deep auger components of the program was proposed to test the geochemical signature of gold-in-soil anomalies at depth in order to better define trenching and drilling targets. The results of this program are noted hereunder.
Phase I fieldwork consisted of the following:
●
Grid establishment: 8.4 km baseline, 73.8 km gridlines;
●
Soil sampling: 2,703 samples collected, 1,815 samples submitted for gold analysis;
●
Rock sampling: 68 samples;
●
Hand auger sampling: 252 holes / samples;
●
Trenching: 6 trenches (319 meters), 214 channel samples.
Soil / Rock Sampling; Methodology - Results
The first pass of the soil sampling survey was carried out using a classical digging tool called a “soso” to a typical depth 0.5 meters. Infill sampling in areas of interest was implemented by shallow auger sampling to a 1.0 meter depth. A total 1,815 soil samples were submitted for gold analysis.
TAL arbitrarily set the anomalous threshold for the soil sample results at 0.05 ppm gold based on past work experience in the Hwini-Butre / Benso-Subriso gold district. 123 out of the 1,815 soil samples (approx. 7%) returned gold values greater than the 0.05 ppm anomalous threshold. The soil geochemistry survey outlined a 8.0 km long by approximately 0.6 km wide, gold-in-soil anomalous trend conforming to the regional NNE structural trend. This gold-in-soil anomaly (> 0.05 ppm Au) tends to be patchy in nature and / or to pinch-out along its 8.0 km extent. The term “ppm” represents “part per million” where 1 ppm = 1 gram per tonne (g/t) = 1,000 part per billion (ppb). Four areas (i.e. Zone A, B, C and D) within the defined gold-in-soil anomalous corridor were prioritised for follow up work by deep auger sampling. These prospective areas were selected based on the relative continuity and / or the favourable geological and structural settings of the gold-in-soil anomalies.
- 34 -
Zone A, located to the north of the town of Edum Banso, extends from gridline 14700N to 15200N (500 meters). Zone B, located to the northeast of the hamlet of Edum Dominase, extends from line 11300N to 12100N (800 meters). Zone C is an approximately 200 meter by 200 meter area located in the east - central portion of the concession. This zone is characterized by three (3) consecutive, strongly anomalous gold-in-soil values over a 50 meter distance on Line 11300N. Zone D consists of a NE - trending zone of discrete gold-in-soil values extending from L8200N to L9900N (1,700 meters) at the south-western extremity of the concession.
Based on geophysical interpretation, including airborne magnetic and radiometric data, the Zone C and Zone D gold-in-soil anomalies appear to be spatially associated with the contact between the Birimian Metavolcanics and the circular Mpohor Intrusive Complex.
A total of 68 rock (float) samples were collected during reconnaissance geological mapping carried out alongside the soil sampling. This rock sampling produced a single exploration - significant gold value from a float of iron oxide stained quartz located to the south of the Zone D gold-in-soil anomaly. Similarly to the Zone C and Zone D anomalies this anomalous quartz float also appears to lie proximate to the inferred metavolcanic - Mpohor Complex contact.
Deep Auger Sampling; Methodology - Results
As a follow up to the soil sampling a deep auger program was implemented on the four priority areas to test the geochemical signature of the gold-in-soil anomalies at depth within the saprolite horizon in order to better define trenching targets. A total of 252 sites were augered to an average depth of approximately 4.0 meters with a one (1) meter sample collected from the saprolite horizon at the bottom of each hole. Auger hole spacing was typically 25 meters, with some 12.5 meter infilling.
TAL set the anomalous threshold for the auger sample results at 0.10 ppm gold based on past work experience in the Hwini-Butre / Benso-Subriso gold district. 19 (7.5%) out of the 252 deep auger samples returned gold values greater than the 0.10 ppm anomalous threshold.
In Zone A , 8 (9%) out of 89 auger holes returned gold values greater than the 0.10 ppm threshold. No samples from Zone B yielded results above the anomalous threshold. Significant results in Zone C were limited to a single line on which 3 (19%) out of 16 samples returned anomalous samples. In Zone D, 7 (12%) out of 58 samples returned gold values greater than the 0.10 ppm anomalous threshold.
Manual Trenching; Methodology - Results
The Zone A and Zone D deep auger anomalies (> 0.10 ppm Au) were further tested by three (3) trenches totaling 160 meters and three (3) trenches totaling 159 meters, respectively. The trenches were manually excavated with pickaxes and shovels to a vertical depth of 4 meters. A total of 214 channel samples were collected from the sidewall of the six (6) trenches totaling 319 meters. Samples consisted of horizontal channels, typically 1 meter or 2 meters in length, cut approximately 0.1 meter above the floor of the trench.
The Zone A trenching failed to yield any significant gold results. Trench EBTR005 yielded the only exploration - significant gold results from the Zone D trenching in the form of a length - weighted average grade of 1.23 ppm gold over a 4 meter trench - length (2 samples). The anomalous section is characterized by chlorite altered mafic metavolvanic rock hosting fine, iron oxide stained, quartz stringers.
Results / Recommendations
Although the Edum Banso Phase I Work Program only yielded limited exploration - significant gold results, the spatial association of the Zone C and Zone D gold-in-soil and deep auger anomalies, the anomalous trench EBTR005 channel samples, and the auriferous quartz float, with the geophysically interpreted, north-western rim of the Mpohor Intrusive Complex is of considerable exploration significance.
- 35 -
Economically significant gold mineralization is known to exist along the south- eastern margin of the circular Mpohor Complex, approximately 2 km to the south-east of the Edum Banso concession. Although published information, geophysical interpretation, and the results of the present work program indicate that the Edum Banso concession shares a similar geological / structural setting as the deposits located on the south- eastern rim of the Mpohor Complex, it by no means implies that the Edum Banso property hosts similar mineral deposits.
Recommended work to further advance the project includes: (a) additional deep auger sampling of the Zone C and Zone D gold-in-soil anomalies; (b) continued reconnaissance geology and rock (float) sampling along the inferred margin of the Mpohor Complex; and (c) detail structural interpretation of the property area based on the airborne magnetic and radiometric data. The company is currently in the process of preparing a work program proposal and budget for the implementation of these recommendations.
Item 3.