ITEM 2. DESCRIPTION OF PROPERTIES
We have acquired mineral prospects for exploration in Nevada mainly for target commodities of gold and copper. The prospects are held by both patented and unpatented mining claims owned directly by us or through legal agreements conveying exploration and development rights to us. Most of our prospects have had a prior exploration history, and this is typical in the mineral exploration industry. Most mineral prospects go through several rounds of exploration before an economic ore body is discovered, and prior work often eliminates targets or points to new ones. Also, prior operators may have explored under a completely different commodity price structure or technological regime. Mineralization which was uneconomic in the past may be ore grade at current market prices when extracted and processed with modern technology.
Nevada Gold Properties
The Company currently controls four mineral properties in Nevada including Eureka, Elder Creek, Paiute, and Seven Troughs (see map below).
Talapoosa Project
In March 2015, we acquired an option from Gunpoint Exploration Ltd. (“Gunpoint”) to purchase a 100% interest in Gunpoint’s Talapoosa exploration project in western Nevada. Talapoosa is a 14,870-acre (23 mile square) district-scale property comprising U.S. Bureau of Land Management (“BLM”) claims, fee lands, and water rights. The option agreement, as amended (the “Amended Agreement”), granted us the right to exercise the purchase option at any time through March 31, 2019, subject to certain interim payments and cumulative project expenditures. We did not make the required payment of $2 million nor issue the one million common shares of the Company by March 31, 2018, as required by the Amended Agreement, and, therefore, the Amended Agreement was terminated per its terms on March 31, 2018. We have no future plans or obligations related to the Talapoosa project.
Eureka (Battle Mountain/Eureka Trend)
We acquired the Eureka property as part of our acquisition of Staccato Gold Resources Ltd. (“Staccato Gold”) and its wholly owned subsidiary, BH Minerals USA, Inc. (“BH Minerals”), in June 2010. Eureka comprises an area of approximately 16,000 acres (~25 miles square) within the Battle Mountain - Eureka Mineral Trend. The property’s northern boundary is located approximately 1 mile south of the town of Eureka, Nevada, in Eureka County.
The Eureka property is situated in the southern part of the Eureka mining district of Eureka County, Nevada, within T19N, R53E and unsurveyed T17N and T18N, and R53E. The Eureka property is also within the bounds of the United States Geological Survey (“USGS”) 1:24,000- scale 7.5 minute topographic series maps of the Pinto Summit and Spring Valley Summit quadrangles.
Property Description
The Eureka Project, which includes Lookout Mountain, Windfall and Oswego projects includes three structurally controlled zones of gold mineralization, each approximately 3- 4 miles (4.8-6.5 km) in strike length, all zones of which are open and will require additional in-fill and step-out drilling.
Historic production of gold in the district included approximately 112,000 oz at the Windfall Mine which began operation in 1975 (Russell, 2005). An additional 17,700 oz of gold was produced from the Lookout Mountain Pit which operated in 1987 (Cargill, 1988, Jonson, 1991).
The Eureka property has no
known reserves, as defined under Guide 7, and the proposed program for the property is exploratory in nature.
All unpatented mining claims on the Eureka property has been located under the General Mining Laws of the United States on US Bureau of Land Management (“BLM”) managed lands.
We pay federal and county claim maintenance fees on the Eureka property. The federal claim fees are due to the BLM by September 1 of each year, and the remainder is due to Eureka County by November 1 of each year. The following table summarizes the claims and royalties for the Eureka property:
Eureka Property Claim and Royalty Summary
Property Name
& Agreements/Royalties
Type of Claim
Number of Claims
Area
Lookout Mountain
Mining lease and agreement dated August 22, 2003, and amended on June 1, 2008, between Timberline and Rocky Canyon Mining Company; 3.5% Net Smelter Return (NSR) royalty + 1.5% NSR royalty capped at $1.5 million (excludes Trevor and Dave claims); 20-year lease term commencing June 1, 2008; annual advanced royalty payment of $72,000.
Unpatented
6,368 acres
Trail
Timberline holds title
Unpatented
620 acres
South Ratto
Timberline holds title; 4% NSR
Unpatented
1,850 acres
Hoosac
4% NSR
Unpatented
1,250 acres
Little Rosa
(Hoosac royalty applies)
Patented
North Amselco
4% NSR
Unpatented
1,850 acres
Rambler
(North Amselco royalty applies)
Patented
South Rustler/W-Claims
Claims owned by DFH Co., a subsidiary of Royal Gold, Inc.
Unpatented
298 acres
Silverado/TL 12
1%-3% NSR
Unpatented
947 acres
Secret Canyon/Oswego
Timberline holds title.
(Includes 2 mill sites on Syracuse 1 & 2)
0 - 3% NSR
Unpatented
1,488 acres
1% NSR
Patented
Windfall
Timberline holds title; 4% NSR
Patented
165 acres
New York Canyon
Timberline holds title; 4% NSR
Unpatented
862 acres
Total Unpatented Lode Claims
15,698 acres
Total Patented Lode Claims
We have the right to explore and develop the Lookout Mountain project subject to a mining lease and agreement dated August 22, 2003 with Rocky Canyon Mining Company, and amended on June 1, 2008. The lease term was extended to 20 years on June 1, 2008, and thereafter for as long as minerals are mined on the project. Advance royalty payments are $6,000 per month, or $72,000 per year.
Pursuant to the amended lease, annual minimum exploration expenditures of $250,000 are required for five years commencing on June 1, 2008, and an additional expenditure of $250,000 is required before June 1, 2016, for a total minimum work commitment of $1,500,000. Exploration expenditures in excess of $250,000 in any year can be accumulated and carried forward and credited to expenditures required in succeeding years. We have fulfilled the work commitment on the Lookout Mountain project.
A 3.5% NSR royalty, plus a 1.5% NSR royalty capped at $1.5 million (excludes Trevor and Dave claims) exists on the project.
During the year ended September 30, 2012, we acquired the Windfall patented claims. The claims were acquired in exchange for $400,000 cash and 76,662 shares of our common stock with a value of $500,000, based upon the weighted-average closing price of our common stock on the NYSE MKT during the 15 days prior to the acquisition. A 4% NSR royalty exists on these claims.
The Secret Canyon/Oswego, South Ratto, and New York Canyon claim groups are owned by us, subject to royalty agreements. NSR royalties of 2% exist on the projects for claims located within one mile of the Windfall Patented claims. A small portion of the Heiro-Syracuse claim group is subject to an additional 1% NSR.
The Hamburg Ridge project is composed of the Hoosac, North Amselco, and South Rustler/W claim groups. The Hoosac and North Amselco claims are owned by us and are currently under lease to DFH Co., a subsidiary of Royal Gold, Inc. During FY 2018, Royal Gold maintained BLM lease payments and Eureka County fees on the Hoosac and North Amselco claim groups. They also pay Timberline Advanced Minimum Royalty payments on a monthly basis. The South Rustler/W-Claims are owned by DFH Co.
Accessibility, Physiography, Climate and Infrastructure
U.S. Highway 50 passes to the east of the Eureka property and access is gained by heading south out of Eureka on U.S. Highway 50 and connecting with unpaved local roads, some of which are periodically maintained by Eureka County. The turnoff for the New York Canyon claim group is about a half mile south of Eureka on U.S. Highway 50 and is an unpaved road running up New York Canyon to the east side of the claim group.
The Windfall group and the northern parts of the Hoosac and Lookout Mountain groups are accessed by the Windfall Canyon Road and its westward extension (the former haul road for the Lookout Mountain Mine), which turns southwest off U.S. Highway 50 approximately 2 miles south of Eureka.
The southern parts of the Eureka property are accessed by traveling approximately 8 miles south of Eureka on U.S. Highway 50 to South Gate, then 1 mile south-southwest on the Fish Creek Valley road to the unimproved Secret Canyon Road, then northwest to the southern part of the Hoosac claims. Approximately 2 miles from South Gate on the Fish Creek Valley Road, a turnoff to the west and northwest on the Ratto Canyon Road accesses the southern portion of the Lookout Mountain group. Many dirt tracks within the Eureka property allow additional access.
Terrain on the Eureka property is rugged, with high ridges, steep canyons, and narrow valleys. Elevations range from 7,000 to 9,000 feet (2,100-2,400 m). Ridges show abundant bedrock exposures, slopes and valleys are typically covered by soil and alluvium. Sagebrush abounds in lower-elevation areas while juniper and pinion cover the higher elevations. Grasses and shrubs grow on the highest ridge tops. The climate of the project area is semi-arid with the area receiving moderate winter snows and occasional summer thunderstorms, with heavy rain from time to time during otherwise hot and dry summers. In winter, access is not maintained off the paved roads and November snow commonly lingers until April.
Summer temperatures usually consist of many consecutive days over 90º F (32.2º C), and temperatures can reach as high as 100º F (40.6° C) or more. Winter temperatures generally range from as cold as below 0º F (-17.8ºC) to usually in the 20º to 35ºF (-6.67º to 1.7 º C) range. Precipitation amounts vary from year to year, averaging about 10.0 inches (25.4 cm) for the area. Several feet of snow usually accumulate on the property during the winter months.
The Eureka property is situated in north-central Nevada in an area with established mining infrastructure. Transmission power lines serve Eureka from the north. All essential services such as food and lodging are available in Eureka, including the dockage for shipments of heavy equipment. A small airport at Eureka is available for private air transport. Railroad access is also available in the area. The gold mines of north-central Nevada continue to produce a significant portion of the world’s gold, and skilled miners and mining professionals are available in Eureka, and 100 miles to the north in Carlin, Elko, and Spring Creek. Permitting a mining operation in Nevada has been a process with which local, state, and federal regulators are very familiar and generally cooperative.
Historic Exploration: 1970’s to 1990’s
The most significant exploration on the Eureka property has been the drilling programs mounted over recent years. Drilling on the Hoosac and Windfall claims date from Norse-Windfall (63 holes, 1970s-1980s), Amselco (8 holes, mid-1980s), Tenneco (18 holes, 1989-1991), Pathfinder (18 holes, 1993), and Pathfinder/Cambior (36 holes, 1995-1997). On the Lookout Mountain claim group, drilling programs began with Amselco (296 holes, 1978-1985) followed by the Windfall group (20 holes, 1986), EFL Gold Company (10 holes, 1990), Barrick (40 holes, 1992-93), and Echo Bay (70 holes, 1994-95). The drilling programs were conducted concurrent with and guided by extensive geologic mapping, geochemical rock and soil sampling programs, and
air and ground geophysics. Geological mapping and geochemical programs were very successful in discovering target areas characterized by permissive structures and traces of gold with arsenic, antimony, and mercury anomalies in soil and rock.
The methods of collection and analyses of some historical soil and rock samples were not always available in the data, but it is likely that the samples were collected, documented, prepared, and analyzed to the standards of professional diligence and analytical techniques applicable at the time. The importance of a geochemical-geological exploration approach is evidenced by the fact that the drilling of many such anomalies has resulted in significant indications of disseminated gold mineralization. The Windfall, Rustler, and Paroni deposits on the Windfall claims and the Lookout Mountain deposit were discovered by drilling soil and rock anomalies in permissive structural and stratigraphic settings. Drill testing of several geochemical anomalies in permissive geological settings has also resulted in the discovery of several additional promising zones of gold mineralization on the Hamburg Ridge, Windfall, and Lookout Mountain claim groups. As yet, these zones have not been fully tested.
Amselco Exploration began exploring the Lookout Mountain project in 1978, conducting extensive geologic mapping, soil and rock sampling and an initial 15-hole reverse circulation drilling program which tested gold mineralization along the Ratto Ridge Fault and associated geochemical anomalies and jasperoids developed along the N-S trending Ratto Ridge. This drilling discovered significant sediment-hosted disseminated gold mineralization at depth. Amselco drilled 296 holes between 1978 and 1985, also discovering five areas of gold mineralization along Ratto Ridge which contain partially developed gold resources. These areas are located at South Lookout Mountain, Pinnacle Peak, Triple Junction, South Ratto Ridge, and South Adit. In 1986, while Amselco was in process of becoming BP Minerals, Amselco management decided that the Lookout Mountain deposit was not of further interest, even though their geologists reportedly believed the deposit had significant potential. The property was optioned to a joint venture of three companies which then owned Norse-Windfall Mines.
In 1990, EFL Gold Mines took bulk samples from the floor of the Lookout Mountain pit. These samples returned assays values ranging from 0.10 to 0.135 oz. of gold/ton. EFL also drilled nine holes, two of which, drilled 500 feet (152 meters) into the floor of the pit, showed both oxide and sulfide gold mineralization.
During the period 1992-1993, Barrick completed geologic mapping, took more than 500 soil samples to expand and fill in Amselco’s soil grid, and drilled 42 widely spaced holes, primarily along Ratto Ridge. Drilling targeted favorable stratigraphy at depth near fault intersections. Barrick discovered that geochemical anomalies are apparently controlled by E-NE and N-NW to NW trending cross structures which intersect the N-S trending Ratto Ridge Fault. Much of the Barrick work focused on the potential in Cambrian Dunderberg Shale and Hamburg Dolomite east of the Ratto Ridge Fault, and potential in the Devonian Nevada Group, especially the Bartine Limestone west of the fault. Outcrops of Bartine Limestone in the area show weak gold mineralization, strong alteration, and anomalous pathfinder element geochemistry. Barrick drilled 42 holes to a maximum depth of approximately 1,300 feet and encountered several gold intercepts.
Work by Barrick also included air and ground geophysics and a stratigraphic and geochemical study in conjunction with geologic mapping to develop and prioritize several target areas. Approximately 800 rock samples were collected and had high-quality multi-element ICP, graphite furnace analyses at MB Associates in California, and ICP and neutron activation analysis at Activation Laboratories in Canada. However, geological and geochemical targets, or additional drilling in areas of known mineralization previously discovered by Amselco found insufficient mineralization to meet Barrick’s objectives. It should be noted that the potential for mineralization west of the Ratto Ridge crest has not been explored adequately.
Echo Bay (1993-95) not only worked Ratto Ridge but also acquired additional ground to the north, south, and southwest. They conducted mapping, sampling, and scattered drilling in the area, exploring deep high-grade potential in the Cambrian Dunderberg Shale and Hamburg Dolomite, and testing Devonian Nevada Group targets west of the Ratto Ridge Fault. Echo Bay drilled several promising holes, including drill hole EBR 27 which intersected 110 feet (34 m) grading 0.043 oz. of gold/ton in the Dunderberg, and drill hole EBR-9 which intersected 115 feet (35 m) grading 0.043 oz. of gold/ton in the Nevada Group. Offsets of EBR-9 found 90 feet grading 0.028 oz. of gold/ton, and another hole which was lost before reaching planned depth found 45 feet (14 m) of 0.024 oz. of gold/ton. Further offsets of EBR-9 and several widely spaced holes averaging 1,000 feet (305 m) deep (EBR 15, 16, 17, 18, and 20) found some anomalous gold along Ratto Ridge but no major intercepts. Eventually, the Echo Bay project totaled 104 RC holes. Faced with depletion of budgets with no significant exploration success, the decline in gold prices and large land payments, Echo Bay decided to drop the property.
On the Windfall, Hamburg Ridge, and New York Canyon claim groups, Bill Wilson of the Idaho Mining Corp, then Windfall Venture, later Norse-Windfall, initiated reconnaissance mapping, soil and rock chip sampling, trenching, and drilling in the early 1970s. He noted that the original underground Windfall Mine, which was discovered in 1908 and produced approximately 65,000 tons of “invisible gold” mineralized rock grading 0.368 oz./ton, was a Carlin-type sediment-hosted disseminated gold occurrence. Wilson’s work emphasized the east side of Hamburg Ridge, the Windfall Trend, where he drilled, with conventional air rotary, holes through, and Z-1 through Z-31, Z42, and ZA-1 on the current Windfall group. He drilled holes Z32-41 on the Hoosac group. The drill holes were generally from 50 to 250 feet deep. Six of Wilson’s
original forty-three Z-holes intersected gold mineralization exceeding 0.02 oz. of gold/ton. This success led to infill drilling and the development of the Windfall open pit mine in 1975, and soon thereafter, the Rustler and Paroni open pit mines. Gold was extracted in a heap-leach operation from sanded and silicified dolomite and silicified shale.
No geologic maps exist from this period other than a few maps compiled from USGS work. Although many drill hole location maps are archived in Century Gold files, the coordinates for many drill hole collars are not available, very few collars are visible in the field, and assay data from infill drilling is poorly documented.
Exploration: 2005 to 2010 (Staccato Gold)
Staccato Gold advanced exploration of the Eureka property and completed drilling between 2005 and 2007, and in follow-up initiated a comprehensive work program in June 2008 which included geologic modeling of all drilling results. This modeling included structural and stratigraphic controls to mineralization, additional density determinations, and new drilling and metallurgical test data. Results of this work were incorporated into subsequent exploration work completed since 2008.
From 2005-2007 core drilling programs at Lookout Mountain completed by Staccato Gold provided data to better define stratigraphy in the higher-grade breccia-hosted gold zones at the Lookout Mountain pit, and discovered new areas of mineralization. The core drilling and a drill hole re-logging program demonstrated the stratabound nature of gold mineralization in thick zones of collapse breccia within carbonate rock flanking the Ratto Ridge structural zone. Metallurgical and other technical characteristics of known mineralization were subsequently investigated at Lookout Mountain.
In October 2009, Staccato Gold also initiated work at the Windfall Project including detailed mapping and sampling programs and completed a ten-hole drill program totaling 8,030 feet (2,448 m). The drilling program focused on testing the extent of gold mineralization below the Windfall and Rustler open pits, located approximately 3 miles northeast of the main Lookout Mountain project mineralized area. The Windfall project is one of several prospective gold projects on our extensive Eureka property in Nevada.
Results from the surface mapping program, review of historic production and geologic maps, and drilling indicate that high-grade gold is locally controlled within cross structures cutting the main Windfall fault zone, at the contact between the Hamburg Dolomite and Dunderburg Shale. The 2009 drill program tested approximately 3,600 feet (1,097 m) of strike length of the Windfall fault zone with wide spaced drilling. The Windfall fault zone is part of an extensive mineralized structural trend which extends for over 17,000 feet (5,182 m) based on historic data.
All holes in the 2009 exploration program encountered thick intercepts of low-grade gold (holes 5-12) or anomalous gold mineralization (holes 13 and 14) within the Windfall fault zone. The offset and exploration holes drilled define the Windfall fault zone as a 150 to 200-foot (46 - 61 m) thick zone striking roughly north-south and dipping approximately 60 degrees to the east, containing two or more significant zones of mineralization.
Five of the ten holes were drilled as offsets to follow up on the high-grade gold intercept drilled in hole 4 (75 feet (23 m) at 0.153 ounces of gold/ton), and five were drilled as exploratory holes to test the strike and dip extent of the Windfall fault zone. Several thick intercepts of gold mineralization were returned, including 135 feet (41 m) at 0.011 ounces of gold/ton in hole 7, 135 feet (41 m) at 0.016 ounces of gold/ton in hole 8, 115 feet (35 m) at 0.010 ounces of gold/ton in hole 9, and 100 feet (30.5m) at 0.018 ounces of gold/ton in hole 11.
A secondary hanging wall structure identified by the mapping program was also encountered in drill holes 7, 8, 11, and 13 and is characterized by strong silicification and decalcification of Windfall Formation and Dunderberg shale in the hanging wall side of the fault, and Dunderberg shale and Hamburg Dolomite on the footwall side. Drilling indicates a down to the east offset of the Dunderberg - Hamburg contact. This secondary structure represents an attractive and untested target at depth.
Lookout Mountain Exploration
We believe that the Eureka property has excellent potential for continued exploration success. The current Lookout Mountain mineralization is defined over a relatively small area near the middle of a mineralized structural corridor that extends up to 6 to 7 kilometers (3.7 to 4.3 miles) in strike length. This structure hosts several areas of drill-indicated mineralization, and the exploration potential in this corridor is strong, as evidenced by historic drilling, and soil and rock geochemical analyses. The Lookout Mountain mineralization itself is open for expansion at depth and along strike, especially to the south. Regionally, several other target areas also exist where historic production and exploration have occurred, but only limited systematic exploration has been conducted.
The Lookout Mountain project and Windfall project areas have now been mapped and sampled including a detailed program conducted over the main mineralized areas. The principal objectives of the mapping and sampling program were to characterize offsets along the main mineralized fault zones at Windfall and Lookout Mountain, identify orientations of mineralized cross structures intersecting the main structural zones, and follow up on soil anomalies. The mapping program, combined with surface sampling and acquisition of historic data, has provided a clearer understanding of the structures along the Ratto Ridge and Windfall areas, as well as identified several significant new exploration target areas.
Over 400 drill holes have been re-logged along Ratto Ridge at Lookout Mountain to ensure geologic consistency with surface mapping. Based on this work, new geologic cross sections and plans were constructed for the entire Lookout Mountain deposit. Geologic grade shells have also been built, and construction of a 3-D model of the geology based on the results of historic drill re-logging and mapping efforts was completed. This new work led to an updated mineral estimate that resolved past technical issues and provides a basis for potentially advancing the property following additional drilling.
An exploration Plan of Operations has been approved by the BLM and the State of Nevada Department of Environmental Protection (“NDEP”) for the Lookout Mountain project. The Plan of Operations calls for approximately 266 acres of disturbance that can be accessed for use in a phased approach, and covers the entire Ratto Ridge structural zone. The Plan of Operations will allow us to complete additional infill, metallurgical, and exploration drilling necessary to advance the development of the Lookout Mountain project.
From 2010 through 2013, the exploration work programs totaled approximately $9,000,000 on the Eureka property. Program objectives were to obtain sufficient data to prepare an NI 43-101 compliant technical report at Lookout Mountain, conduct initial gold recovery studies, initiate environmental baseline investigations, better understand the controls of mineralization, and to outline additional exploration drill targets. In summary, these objectives were met in the 2010-2013 exploration by completion of the following:
·
16,675 feet (5,083 m) of core drilling focused primarily for metallurgical and geotechnical scoping studies;
·
46,965 feet (14,315 m) of reverse circulation (RC) drilling directed primarily at resource in-fill and definition drilling;
·
Drill testing of high-grade sulfide lenses within the oxide mineralization to better understand the geologic controls and geometry;
·
Initial metallurgical testing on core samples to define heap leach characteristics and process parameters;
·
Channel sampling and bulk sampling within the historic Lookout Mountain pit for bench-scale metallurgical testing;
·
Identification of additional exploration targets on the Eureka Property outside of the main Lookout Mountain Project area through detailed geologic mapping and sampling;
·
Drilling and construction of additional groundwater monitoring wells for hydrological characterization;
·
Initiation of geotechnical pit-wall stability and heap leach pad alternative studies; and
·
Initiation of additional baseline hydrology and environmental geochemistry studies directed at state and BLM permitting.
An initial technical report entitled, Technical Report on the Lookout Mountain Project, Eureka County, Nevada, USA, compliant with NI 43-101 (“2011 Technical Report”), was completed on May 2, 2011. The Technical Report was prepared by Mine Development Associates (“MDA”) of Reno, Nevada under the supervision of Michael M. Gustin, Senior Geologist, who is a qualified person under NI 43-101. The Technical Report details mineralization at the Lookout Mountain Project. In addition, significant exploration potential is noted.
The Technical Report was modeled and estimated by MDA by statistical evaluation of available drill data utilizing geologic interpretations provided by Timberline. The geologic interpretations were used to constrain gold mineral domains on vertical cross sections spaced at 50- to 100-foot intervals across the extents of the Lookout Mountain mineralization. The cross sections were rectified to the mineral-domain interpretations on level plans spaced at 10-foot intervals, analyzing the modeled mineralization geostatistically to aid in the establishment of estimation parameters, and interpolating grades into a three-dimensional block model.
The final drill results of the 2011 exploration program were successfully incorporated into the NI 43-101 compliant “Updated Technical Report on the Lookout Mountain Project, Eureka County, Nevada, USA” issued by MDA on May 31, 2012 (“2012 Technical Report”). As a result of the 2011 exploration program, we successfully extended the mineralized zone at Lookout Mountain 600 feet to the south of the existing mineral deposit, and expanded mineralization along the west margin of the deposit. Results from Lookout Mountain, and from the South Adit area, significantly increased the reported mineralization at the Lookout Mountain Project.
During the year ended September 30, 2013, we completed our exploration program initiated in 2012 at Lookout Mountain. This program focused on providing data for on-going metallurgical studies directed at characterization of gold mineralization recovery, and for initial assessment of pit-slope stabilities. Permitting-related activities were advanced through completion of quarterly water monitoring, and installation of three monitoring wells. Scoping-level investigations for location of site facilities (heap leach pads, mine rock storage, access roads) have also been prepared in advance of a potential Preliminary Economic Assessment (“PEA”) of the project. Assay results from drilling during the 2012 exploration program were incorporated into an NI 43-101 compliant “Updated Technical Report on the Lookout Mountain Project, Eureka County, Nevada, USA” issued by MDA on April 11, 2013 (“2013 Technical Report”).
Cautionary Note to U.S. Investors: The Lookout Mountain Technical Report uses the terms “mineral resource,” “measured mineral resource,” “indicated mineral resource” and “inferred mineral resource”. We advise investors that these terms are defined in and required to be disclosed by Canadian regulations (NI 43-101); however, these terms are not defined terms under Guide 7 and are normally not permitted to be used in reports and registration statements filed with the SEC. As a reporting issuer in Canada, we are required to prepare reports on our mineral properties in accordance with NI 43-101. We reference the Lookout Mountain Technical Report in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for informational purposes only, and the Lookout Mountain Technical Report is not incorporated herein by reference. Investors are cautioned not to assume that all or any part of a mineral deposit in the above categories will ever be converted into Guide 7 compliant reserves. “Inferred mineral resources” have a great amount of uncertainty as to their existence, and great uncertainty as to their economic and legal feasibility. It cannot be assumed that all or any part of an inferred mineral resource will ever be upgraded to a higher category. Under Canadian rules, estimates of inferred mineral resources may not form the basis of feasibility or pre-feasibility studies, except in rare cases. Investors are cautioned not to assume that all or any part of an inferred mineral resource exists or is economically or legally mineable.
Exploration activities at Eureka were curtailed during 2014, as a result of the limited availability of capital. To reduce ongoing expenses, we consolidated our Elko field office into our Eureka facility and limited the exploration program. The limited program did include geochemical waste rock environmental characterization, independent metallurgical testing, and continued monitoring of water quality, and definition of hydrologic work plans. In addition, geologic mapping, and stratigraphic and structural analyses have been completed along with rock and soil sampling in selected detailed areas. This activity has resulted in identification of new targets characterized by anomalous mineralogy and trace element geochemistry as indicators of possible gold mineralization.
In fiscal 2015, three holes were drilled at Lookout Mountain to confirm a previously recognized partial drill intercept of higher grade gold mineralization at depth. This higher grade mineralization is associated with the previously defined zone along Ratto Ridge of near-surface, low-grade gold mineralization. The f
our drill holes were offset approximately 140 feet from a single previous partial intercept. The geology in the holes is stratigraphically well correlated with gold intercepts occurring in mineralized variably carbonaceous collapse breccias similar to previous gold intercepts in the pyritic Dunderberg Shale-Hamburg Dolomite contact zone. The four intercepts are thought by Timberline geologists to be related to a higher grade occurrence as recognized in many deeper levels of Carlin-type systems.
Highlights of 2015 Lookout Mountain drilling include 65
feet (19.8 m) @ 0.09 ounces of gold per ton, including 25 feet (7.6 m) @ 0.14 opt in BHSE-171. Three of four recently drilled Lookout holes intercepted >3 g/t gold over lengths of approximately 15 to 5 feet (4.5 to 7.6 meters).
During the continued difficult commodities environment of fiscal year 2016 and 2017, we did not complete any drilling or field exploration activities on the Eureka Project. However, we have secured 19 historic mine-related workings including shafts, adits, and trenches to ensure public safety in compliance with State of Nevada Abandoned Mine Lands regulations. In addition, with field reviews, we did complete a reconciliation of BLM and Nevada state bond calculations with actual disturbed acreage. This process was subsequently completed in early fiscal year 2017. We also initiated reclamation of drill sites at Lookout Mountain which will, when completed, result in staged refunds of bond funds.
During fiscal year 2018, we completed a detailed geologic review and reinterpretation of the Lookout Mountain gold mineralization. Work focused on internal geologic modeling of 17 intercepts of high-grade (>0.136 opt & up to 2.250 opt) gold mineralization that is associated with extensive zones of structurally controlled fault- and gouge-breccias, as well as carbonaceous collapse-breccia (see Table below). The gold mineralization is associated with orpiment and realgar (arsenic sulfides), which are commonly found in many major Carlin-type gold deposits. This geologic review led to design and completion of a detailed gravity survey and further analysis of historic geophysical survey data. A detailed grid area around the historic Lookout Mountain open-pit area defined a circular gravity low approximately 1.25 miles (2 km) in diameter and bounded and cut by several complex internal structures. The west margin of the anomaly is coincident with jasperoid alteration and gold mineralization of the Lookout Mountain resource. The gravity anomaly is recognized to correlate well with reduced-to-pole airborne magnetics survey and geologic mapping. Major structures identified by magnetics and geologic mapping bound the gravity anomaly.
The results of the geological review are as follows:
Three lines of historic (1992) IP data at Lookout Mountain define three N-S trending anomalies which are partially coincident with the high-grade gold drill intercepts and fault structures. In addition, a single line of historic Controlled Source Audio Magneto-Telluric (CSAMT) data which crosses the Lookout Mountain historic open-pit area was also reviewed in the context of the recently collected gravity data. The gravity data coordinates well with structures identified in the CSAMT and with magnetic signatures and geologic mapping. In particular, the CSAMT data identify a high-resistivity feature spatially associated with jasperoid along the west boundary of an area of low resistivity interpreted to be a graben. The graben’s west boundary is extensively drilled and is approximately coincident the existing north-south trending gold resource at Lookout Mountain. The central portion of the graben contains a large, high-resistivity anomaly, which has only been tested locally on the west side by only four previously noted closely-spaced holes (BHSE-152, -171, -172, -173), all of which contain relatively high-grade gold. The gold is associated with vein-like and brecciated arsenic sulfides within carbonaceous breccia, above extensively altered (“sanded” and veined) limestone, and below altered shale. The east boundary fault, and other faults within the graben structure remain undrilled and represent a priority target areas.
Windfall Exploration
In 2015, we also completed a six-hole RC drill program on the Windfall target. The drilling successfully tested the on-strike, offset, and down-dip extensions of gold mineralization that was previously mined at Windfall. Six drill holes completed over a strike length of approximately 3,000 feet (914 m) intersected gold mineralization consistent with results from over 600 historic drill holes, highlighted by BHWF-40 which intersected 80 feet (24.9 m) at 0.09 opt of gold including a subsection of 20 feet (6.1 m) @ 0.26 opt of gold.
In 2018, additional field work focused on rock grab sampling combined with compilation of drilling data and geologic modeling, has traced a continuous zone of gold mineralization along a length of approximately 1.7 miles (2.7 km) in and between the historic Rustler, Windfall, and South Paroni pits. The sampling collected 40 rock chip samples. Highlights
included 10 samples with greater than 1 g/t (0.029 opt) gold and 6 greater than 3 g/t (0.088 opt), up to a maximum of 13.1 g/t (0.382 opt). In total, 17 samples assayed greater than 0.250 g/t (0.007 opt), documenting the extensive zone of gold mineralization. These pits produced approximately 115,000 oz of gold from oxidized, near-surface ore and were among the first heap-leach mining operations in Nevada.
With results of recent rock grab sampling, the Company has identified several priority targets for drill testing. The anticipated initial targets will be sited on patented claims owned by Timberline.
Oswego Exploration
The Oswego trend is the central of three parallel, north-south, gold-mineralized structural trends on the Eureka property. Results of 2018 surface rock chip sampling and geologic mapping have defined, high-grade, gold exploration targets along the Oswego trend. The Oswego trend, which extends 3.1 miles (5 km) north-south, includes high-grade gold at the Road-Cut target which is situated approximately 4,000 feet (1.2 km) due east of the Lookout Mountain resource area, and high-grade silver and gold at the Geddes- Bertrand target, and numerous additional untested targets.
In 2018, company geologists generated and announced assay results for 54 rock samples collected at Oswego. Most notably, 9 grab samples were collected at approximately 20 feet (6 m) spacing over a 180-foot (55 m) section of road cut along a moderately east-dipping, strongly mineralized fault zone (the Road-Cut target). The assays averaged 0.4 ounces per ton (opt) gold. The Road-Cut target sits approximately 2,000 feet (610 m) east of the major graben-bounding fault structure associated with the Lookout Mountain gold resource. The relative close proximity of the Road-Cut occurrence to structures associated with Lookout Mountain suggest a possible geologic connection.
The occurrence of wide-spread gold and silver mineralization in outcrop in the Oswego trend suggests the existence of a robust mineralizing system. Several rock formations on the trend are well-known as favorable hosts for large Carlin-type deposits in the region.
Eureka Project Exploration Summary
There are no proven and probable reserves as defined under Guide 7 at the Eureka property, and our activities there remain exploratory in nature.
With the recent work at Oswego, exploration targets for future drilling are now defined on all three of the trends at Eureka.
If the commodities environment improves in fiscal year 2019, work plans include drilling to test existing high priority targets at Lookout Mountain, Windfall, and Oswego. Our total exploration budget for the project for fiscal year 2019 is approximately $500,000, not including land maintenance costs.
The expenditures for this work program are discretionary and may be scaled back or not conducted at all, depending upon the availability of capital. For further details on the exploration budget for the Eureka Property, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation - Mineral Exploration - Exploration Plans and Budget.”
Elder Creek Project
On August 14, 2018, w
e finalized the acquisition of the Elder Creek property as part of a two-property acquisition from Americas Gold Exploration Inc.
The Elder Creek property is located in northern Nevada, 8 miles west-northwest of Battle Mountain in Lander and Humboldt Counties immediately west of Battle Mountain (see figure below). The project lies within the Battle Mountain mining district, covers approximately 9,600 acres (15 miles square) and includes 583 unpatented lode mining claims.
The major styles of mineralization recognized in the Elder Creek area are calc-alkaline, porphyry copper style mineralization and associated peripheral gold-silver-bearing base-metal vein systems. The hydrothermal alteration zoning pattern indicates the presence of a large magmatic-hydrothermal center(s) to the Elder Creek porphyry system. The stockwork quartz veined core of the system is northeasterly-elongate and exceeds 1 by 2 miles (~1.5 by 3 km), which compares favorably to other global porphyry copper systems and regional systems such as Robinson, Yerington, Butte, and Bingham.
In May, 2018, Timberline entered into a Purchase and Sale Agreement with America’s Gold Exploration Inc. (AGEI) to purchase the latter’s rights, title and interest in, to, and under the Elder Creek Joint Venture (JV Agreement) with a subsidiary of McEwen Mining (McEwen).
The underlying Elder Creek JV with McEwen grants Timberline, as operator of the project, terms of earn-in to acquire a 51% ownership for $2.6 M expenditure over 4 years by December 31, 2021, and a 65% ownership for an additional $2.5M expenditure for a total commitment of $5.1M over 6 years by December 31, 2023. The agreement includes industry standard dilution to a 2% NSR following earn-in. Upon completion of the 65% earn-in expenditures, if McEwen elects to participate, the parties will form a joint venture (the “Joint Venture”), and each party would contribute to further exploration spending according to their ownership interest. There are no underlying royalties on the property.
On November 28, 2018 the Company announced completion of a NI43-101 Technical Report on the Elder Creek Copper-Gold Project. The report provides a comprehensive description of the project.
The Elder Creek property has no
known reserves, as defined under Guide 7, and the proposed program for the property is exploratory in nature.
Accessibility, Physiography, Climate and Infrastructure
Access to the Elder Creek property is along dirt roads south from the Interstate 80 Exit at Mote Road which is approximately 12 miles west of Battle Mountain. A single lane dirt road for approximately 5 miles southward leads to the center of the property block.
The climate is typical of the northern Great Basin with cold, wet winters and hot, dry summers. Most of the precipitation is received during the months of November through May, primarily in the form of snow. The months of June through October are generally dry, although thunderstorms can create wet periods.
The project is situated in the Basin and Range province, which is characterized by north-northeast trending mountain ranges separated by alluvial filled valleys. The claims are located in the Battle Mountains, a roughly equidimensional mountain range varying in elevation from a high of 8550 feet (2,600 m) at North Peak to a low of approximately 4500 feet (1372 m) in the Reese River Valley. Elder Creek sits in the transition from high mountain peaks to the south with moderate elevations to the west and east and alluvial pediment to the north.
The Elder Creek property is situated in an area with well-established mining infrastructure. An east-west trending high-voltage power line transects the northern portion of the property and connects with the Valmy Power Plant which is located approximately 14 miles to the northwest of the property. Interstate Highway 80 located immediately north of the property connects Winnemucca approximately 42 miles to the northwest, Battle Mountain 12 miles (19 km) to the southeast, and Elko 83 miles (134 km) to the northeast. Essential services such as food and lodging are available in Battle Mountain, including dockage for shipments of heavy equipment. Battle Mountain’s estimated 2010 population was 3,635 (2010 US Census). A small airport at Battle Mountain is available for private air transport, and regularly scheduled air service is available in Elko, Nevada.
Skilled technical support professionals, mining supplies, and services area are available in Battle Mountain, Winnemucca, and Elko.
History
The Elder Creek project is located in the northern part of the Battle Mountain-Eureka trend. The Battle Mountain district has been a source of base and precious metal production since the late 1800s. In the 1960’s Duval Corporation developed and began mining several porphyry-skarn copper-gold deposits located at Copper Canyon in the southern part of the district and at Copper Basin located in the northern part of the district. Continued exploration in the 1970’s and 1980’s led to the discovery of gold-silver, skarn-replacement deposits that are spatially related to the copper-gold deposits. Battle Mountain Gold Company was spun off from Duval Corporation to develop these deposits (Tomboy, Minnie, Fortitude in the Copper Canyon area; Surprise, Labrador, and Bailey Day in the Copper Basin area). Battle Mountain Gold (now Newmont Mining Corporation) developed and mined other deposits (Midas, Reona, Phoenix) primarily in the southern Copper Canyon porphyry system within the Battle Mountain district. Newmont continues to mine at Phoenix today.
Numerous very small scale historic prospecting and mining related developments including test pits, adits, shafts, and declines are present throughout the district including locally on the Elder Creek property. Production records are typically unknown for each of these developments.
Precious metal-rich base metal veins were first prospected in the area in the late 1800’s, but only minor production resulted. The pervasive alteration of the Elder Creek stock attracted the attention of explorers for porphyry copper mineralization as early as the 1960’s. Duval Corporation was the first company to test the Elder Creek porphyry system for porphyry copper mineralization. In 1965 they drilled 3 core holes. From 1966 to 1969, Rocky Mountain Energy, the minerals group of the Union Pacific Railroad Co., completed exploration on the property -and in 1968 they drilled 8 deep core holes that encountered sub-economic copper-molybdenum values.
Additional exploration in the 1960’s focused on geophysical targets and included multiple drill holes in and around S36, T33N, R43E. The drill holes discovered low-grade copper mineralization under pediment gravels where located within the north-northeastern, outer fringe of an annular magnetic anomaly that surrounds the porphyry system core. Also in the 1960’s, Valmy Copper Corporation drilled five shallow holes that identified low-grade copper oxide mineralization from surface to 190- 330 feet deep along the inner edge of the annular magnetic anomaly. The reported copper grades were considered to be too low to warrant further exploration.
Low-level gold values within and around the Elder Creek stock led to fairly extensive drilling by several major companies in the 1980’s and 90’s. V. E. K. Associates held the property in 1984 and brought in Cordex (1987) to drill 3 holes, BRM Gold (1991) drilled 4 holes, and Battle Mountain Gold (1992) completed 3 holes. Battle Mountain Gold staked most of the Elder Creek stock and completed about 40 drill holes, reportedly encountering substantial low-level gold but no orebody. Western Mining Co. (1994-95) drilled 11 holes in the Elder Creek property area and 8 holes on adjacent ground. The deepest hole went to a depth of about 1,500 feet. Eleven of these holes contained thirty, 10-foot intervals that exceeded 100 ppb gold (Theodore et al., 2000, p.185). During 1995, a Santa Fe-Battle Mountain Gold joint venture drilled 7 holes north of the property, one on the north boundary of the Mote claims. The Mote claims were located by NLRC in 1999.
Geology of the Elder Creek Area
In the western part of the Elder Creek area, the Dewitt Thrust fault places Ordovician Valmy Formation cherts and shales on top of Cambrian Harmony Formation quartz- and feldspathic-sandstones and shales, which are locally calcareous. Faults at Elder Creek dip steeply, strike north-northwest to north-northeast and show normal and oblique-slip offset. The Elder Creek Fault indicates normal, down-to-the- west movement.
The Cambrian Harmony Formation underlies most of the Elder Creek area and is intruded by dikes and stocks of the Eocene Elder Creek porphyry center (Theodore et al., 1973). In addition to the felsic intrusions associated with the Elder Creek center, there are older dioritic and andesitic dikes in the area as well as Eocene pebble dikes that contain lithic fragments of the Devonian Scott Canyon Formation.
At Elder Creek, the Cambrian Harmony Formation consists of arkosic sandstone and interbedded shale that forms part of the upper plate of the Roberts Mountains allochthon, emplaced during the Devonian-early Mississippian Antler Orogeny (Roberts, 1964). The Roberts Mountains allochthon is comprised of several thrust slices and is exposed in the area as the DeWitt thrust which juxtaposes Cambrian Harmony Formation on top of the Ordovician Valmy Formation.
King (2011) documented three major phases of felsic intrusions that include early-stage, fine- to medium-grained sub-porphyritic hornblende-biotite granodiorite and intermediate-stage and late-stage quartz eye-hornblende-biotite granodiorite porphyry. The intermediate- and late-stage intrusions have been dated by K-Ar to be 37.3 + 0.7 Ma and 35.4 + 1.1 Ma, respectively (Theodore et al., 1973 and McKee, 1992).
Hydrothermal breccias are locally present in the Elder Creek complex and are dominated by quartz and rock flour matrix which supports sub-rounded to sub-angular clasts of Harmony Formation and porphyry phases. Clasts are typically pervasively altered and occasionally mineralized with copper oxides.
Alteration is extensive at Elder Creek and occurs in broad annular zones that suggest a large magmatic-hydrothermal center(s) is present within the Elder Creek porphyry system. The intense stock-work fractured and quartz veined core of the system is northeasterly-elongate and exceeds 3.0 km by 1.5 km. Surface exposures indicate the limit of potassic (biotite+K-feldspar) alteration is about 4.0 km by 2.5 km and the outer limit of biotite-pyrite-pyrrhotite hornfels in the Harmony Formation sandstones exceeds 4.5 km by 3.5 km. Actinolite alteration occurs locally within the quartz veined core of the porphyry system. Garwin (2014) interprets the actinolite as characteristic of inner- propylitic alteration that overprints and flanks the potassic zone in many global porphyry deposits. Several northerly-trending zones of late-stage, feldspar-destructive quartz-sericite-pyrite alteration occurs in the outer portions of the Elder Creek porphyry system, and the largest zone, near the Gracie mine, exceeds 2.0 km by 1.5 km.
McEwen (or predecessor companies) completed extensive soil and rock sampling on the property between 2011-2012. Trace element analyses from over 5,500 soil and rock samples confirm strong zonation in the magmatic-hydrothermal system at Elder Creek. Garwin’s (2014) work on behalf of AGEI concluded that the distribution of key trace elements suggests there may be two primary centers at Elder Creek including: 1) Cu-Mo-Ag-W-As-Li centered over the west central part of the area and 2) Cu-Au-Mo-W-Bi-As in the northerly elongate zone that extends along the east side of the property. The presence of Li > 30 ppm and the relative lack of Bi in the western center which is cored by early-stage intrusions may indicate that this center is early and has been overprinted by a later porphyry event. The near-surface expression of this later event could be the eastern, Bi-rich and Li-deficient zone that contains intermediate-stage quartz-eye porphyry intrusions. A Bi-rich plume has the potential to be the high-level signature of a northerly-elongate mineralized cupola at depth.
2018 Timberline Exploration
Following acquisition of the project from AGEI in mid-2018, Timberline completed an initial 3-hole drill program to test for copper and gold, and associated metals, on two priority targets. Mineralization at Elder Creek is variably distributed throughout the complex as disseminated sulfides and as locally concentrated, structurally controlled massive sulfide veins.
Drilling confirmed the presence of copper oxide and sulfides in the Valmy Copper Oxide Pit-area. Reverse circulation (RC) drill hole RCEC18-01 intersected 110 feet (34 meters) of 0.44% copper. The entire 500 foot (152 meters) hole averaged 0.21% copper, and bottomed in mineralization at 500 feet due to depth limitations of the rig (see Table below). It contains multiple intervals of anomalous copper with silver ± gold. These holes intersected continuous copper mineralization grading 0.2% to 0.3% from surface to their maximum depths of 200 to 300 feet. The hole successfully tested the grade and continuity of mineralization intersected in five shallow vertical holes drilled in 1967 when copper prices were $0.38/lb.
RCEC18-01 was collared in heterolithic breccia of the Harmony Formation, and over its 500 foot (152 meters) length also intercepted oxidized arkosic quartzite, and a quartz-bearing porphyritic intrusion with strong potassic (biotite) and silica alteration. The hole was sited within a zone of porphyry-style quartz veining, and over a strong annular magnetic anomaly encircling a non-magnetic core to the system.
Core hole CCEC18-02 deepened reverse circulation hole RCEC18-02 to1,497 feet and intersected visible chalcopyrite and molybdenite mineralization throughout with mineralization best developed in hydrothermal breccias between 1313.5 - 1360 feet (400.5-414.6 m) (see Table below). It intercepted pervasively altered hornfels (after Harmony Formation shale and arkosic sandstones), feldspar porphyry intrusive rocks and hydrothermal breccias. The cross-cutting textures and breccias reflect multiple, overprinting events including emplacement of copper and molybdenum sulphides. The chalcopyrite and molybdenite are concentrated (typically 2-6%) from 1,313.5 - 1,360 feet (400.5 - 414.6 meters), where they occur primarily within veins and the quartz-sulphide matrix to breccia which cross-cuts potassic-altered hornfels and associated porphyritic intrusions.
The Timberline drilling intersected thick and consistently mineralized sections of copper mineralization with variable molybdenum, gold, and silver. The results confirm discovery of a large porphyry copper-gold system with typical anomalous multi-trace element signatures. The mineralization remains open laterally and at depth.
Management considers the initial drill program results to be encouraging. With the exploration success to date, Timberline has contracted Zonge Geophysics of Reno, Nevada to complete a 10 km Induced Polarization (IP)/Resistivity survey at the property. The survey is designed to characterize the rocks for signatures associated with concentration of sulfides (IP), associated silicification (Resistivity) as hydrothermal alteration, and identification of major fault zones within the project area and will assist in follow-up drill target definition. The geophysical program is expected to be completed in early 2019.
The project is fully permitted with the BLM for additional drilling, which is planned after completion of the geophysical work.
ICBM (Paiute) Project
The ICBM Project (Timberline/Barrick) is located 6.5 miles due west of Battle Mountain, in the Battle Mountain Mining District, Lander and Humboldt Counties, Nevada. The property consists of 1,346 acres (2.1 miles squared) on BLM-administered lands.
Timberline originally acquired the project in 2010 through acquisition of Staccato Gold who controlled the project as a non-core asset along with the flagship Eureka Project. Staccato controlled the project through an earn-in joint venture (JV) agreement with Lac Minerals (LAC), a subsidiary of Barrick Gold. Timberline acted as operator of the project through November 2013 maintaining a 72% interest in the project, with Barrick Gold holding the remaining interest.
Historic exploration demonstrated that gold mineralization is present on the property in a style of mineralization currently being mined at Newmont’s Fortitude/Phoenix complex to the south. Recent analysis of historic data led to recognition that the property has porphyry copper-gold characteristics similar to Newmont’s nearby historic Copper Basin mine.
Although Timberline controlled the project, as a non-core asset no exploration was completed between 2010 and December, 2013. In December of 2013, Timberline entered into an agreement with Americas Gold Exploration, Inc. (AGEI) to continue exploration at the project. Under the terms of the agreement, AGEI could earn up to 76.6% ownership in the property by making certain exploration expenditures over a four-year period. AGEI also assumed the role as operator of the joint venture.
On August 14, 2018 Timberline finalized the re-acquisition of the property, since renamed Paiute by AGEI, along with the contiguous Elder Creek property as part of a two-property acquisition from AGEI. Timberline has re-assumed the operator’s position in the underlying property, which is now referred to as the Paiute Project. Current ownership of the property is 75.4% Timberline, 24.6% LAC.
The underlying ICBM JV with LAC is an earn-in agreement and as a result of previous qualifying expenditures by Timberline, AGEI and previous owners, Timberline currently controls 75.4% ownership of the project. Terms of the continued earn-in are as follows:
·
No mandatory work commitments are required
·
As operator, Timberline proposes work budgets with a 30-day option for pro-rata participation by LAC.
·
If LAC chooses to not participate, ownership dilutes on a pro-rata basis of $300,000 earn-in for 60% of the project.
·
If dilution reaches 10% or less, LAC converts to a 2% NSR.
On November 28, 2018 the Company announced completion of a NI43-101 Technical Report on the Paiute copper-gold project. The report provides a comprehensive description of the project.
The Paiute project has no
known reserves, as defined under Guide 7, and the proposed program for the property is exploratory in nature.
Exploration and Mining History
The Paiute project shares much exploration history with the Elder Creek project (see above) as they are contiguous in location. However, as unique to Paiute, Battle Mountain Gold Company and its predecessors held the Paiute property through the early 1990’s and drilled nine reverse circulation holes within the current claim block. A best intercept of 100 feet (30.5 m) with 925 ppb gold was noted in their drilling.
LAC relocated the claims in late 1992 and conducted basic field work in 1993 that included geologic mapping, rock and soil sampling, and ground magnetics. In late 1994 they completed a nine hole reverse circulation drilling program to test the main soil anomalies on the property. One drill hole reported 20 feet (6.1 m) of 0.038 opt gold from 20 to 40 feet (6.1 - 12.2 m) that was associated with a narrow vein-like structure in the Harmony Formation.
Pathfinder Exploration joint ventured the property from LAC in early 1995 and completed infill mapping and sampling and target definition. First pass drilling intersected a 200 (61 m) foot zone of 411 ppb gold in drill hole ICBM-95-1 within a quartz-actinolite-sulfide veined granodiorite stock or sill. Follow-up reverse circulation drilling by Pathfinder in 1996 was highlighted by hole 96-5 which intersected sericitized, chloritized, amphibole-rich monzonite/granodiorite porphyry with secondary biotite from 450-490 feet (137.1 - 179.8m). Mineralization within the last 15.1 feet (4.6 m) of the hole averaged 0.035 oz/t Au (1.24 g/t) and was accompanied by increased silicification and sulfides (chalcopyrite, pyrite, arsenopyrite).
Petrographic work by Larson (1996) identified silicified, sulfidic (pyrite, chalcopyrite), quartz/calcite veined quartz monzonite porphyry, Cambrian sandstone/quartzite (Harmony Formation) and diabase lithologies, along with a skarn dominant monzonite or granodiorite porphyry with “significant percentages of pyrite, chalcopyrite, and chalcocite”.
To date, no historic or current resource estimates have been reported at the Paiute project.
Geology of the Paiute Project Area
In the Paiute project area, the Dewitt Thrust fault places Ordovician Valmy Formation cherts and shales on top of Cambrian Harmony Formation quartz- and feldspathic-sandstones and shales, which are locally calcareous. The Harmony Formation is intruded by seven Cretaceous to Tertiary age intrusives which include granodiorite porphyry, porphyritic leucogranite, porphyritic hornblende-biotite monzogranite, granodiorite, biotite-hornblende monzogranite, megacryst porphyry, and monzogranite porphyry. The oldest intrusive is Devonian or Ordovican diabase that is exposed in the southwest part of the project and surrounding area.
At Paiute, the granodiorites and quartz monzonites intruded as high level plugs, stocks, dikes and sills. Thermal metamorphism associated with the intrusions produced hornfels, quartzite and skarn in the Harmony Formation sediments. Hydrothermal alteration associated with the intrusions consists of argillization, silicification, quartz veining/stockwork that is accompanied by zones of hydrous iron oxides as fracture fillings, disseminations, and occasional gossans. Chlorite + actinolite occurs locally within quartz veins and may represent retrograde metamorphism. Quartz veining occurs throughout the project area and increases in intensity within the alteration zones.
A series of en echelon structures and sub-parallel faults define a strong N 10-20° E - striking structural zone through the central part of the property that extends approximately 16,500 feet in length and up to 1,500 feet in width. This fault zone is well defined by field mapping and is the dominant northeast trending feature. Secondary northwest and north striking faults cut the northeast-striking structures. Locally, the structures are occupied by granodiorite porphyry dikes. The structures are typically altered and mineralized.
1,283 soil samples and 301 rock samples have been collected by historic explorers in the Paiute project area and analyzed for 14-elements. Copper, gold, arsenic and bismuth trace element anomalies in soils and rocks occur along the N10-20°E structural zone. A north-northwesterly (N20°W)-trending zone of elevated copper and gold occurs where increased fracturing and actinolitic alteration of the rocks is spatially associated with intrusives near Pathfinder drill-hole 96-5.
Garwin (2014) described the major styles of mineralization in the Paiute area as calc-alkaline, porphyry copper-gold, and gold-bearing structurally controlled vein systems. The main gold mineralized zone on the property is coincident with the N10-20°E structural zone.
Where the rock is not oxidized, fresh disseminated and vein pyrite is pervasive throughout the Paiute project area. Pyrite is the most abundant sulfide and occurs within the bleached zones coincident with alteration and structural zones. Pyrrhotite is nearly as abundant as pyrite and occurs both within and adjacent to alteration and structural zones. Arsenopyrite appears to be closely related to alteration and occurs only within the alteration zones.
2018 Timberline Exploration
Exploration expenditures for FY 2018 were limited to geological field reviews, rock grab sampling and assays to characterize surface mineral showings. In addition, an application was submitted to the BLM with receipt thereafter of an approved Notice of Intent (NOI) to allow disturbance related to construction of drill roads and pads. The BLM approved the application and the property is fully permitted for road construction and drilling.
Seven Troughs District
During the year ended September 30, 2012, we announced the acquisition from CIT Microprobe Holdings, LLC (California Institute of Technology) (“CIT”) of CIT’s interest in 3,900 acres (6.1 miles squared) of patented and unpatented mining claims comprising essentially the entire Seven Troughs gold mining district near Lovelock, Nevada. Our acquired interest is primarily as lessee under the terms of 50-year lease, where the lessor is now a defunct company, originally executed in 1975. Terms of the purchase agreement included a cash payment of $50,000 and a 2-percent NSR production royalty reserved to CIT. We have the option to purchase one-half of the NSR production royalty for $1 million.
Seven Troughs is an epithermal gold district recognized as yielding some of the highest gold production grades in Nevada history through small-scale operations in the early 20th century. We believe the district has the potential to host a large precious metals system similar to the high-grade gold and silver veins of Japan's world-renowned Hishikari epithermal gold mine.
We are under no obligation to make exploration expenditures at Seven Troughs. Since acquiring the property, we have initiated the compilation of historic mine workings data and completed limited geologic mapping, geochemical sampling, and spectrophotometry survey within the district. During 2014, the historic mine workings have been compiled into an electronic 3-D model. Exploration activity during 2015 was restricted to target development based on geologic data collected and compiled in 2014. Drilling is on hold until adequate available capital exists to fund a program.
As of September 30, 2018, we do not consider Seven Troughs to be a material property, and no material expenditures are planned at this time.
Wolfpack Gold Properties
With the acquisition of Wolfpack Gold (“WPG”), we acquired nine mineral properties in Nevada and one in California. We conducted a due diligence review on each property, including organization of the historic data and review of exploration work completed to-date. As of September 30, 2018, only claims on one property have been retained, as they are contiguous with our Eureka project.
In 2017, we sold our property and royalty interests in various unpatented claims that were under lease to Pershing Gold. In addition, we sold various other royalty interests that WPG had retained through previous transactions in four other properties.
As of September 30, 2018, we do not consider the remaining Wolfpack property to be a material property, and no material expenditures are planned at this time.
Montana Gold Property
Butte Highlands Gold Project
In July 2007, we acquired the Butte Highlands Gold Project, located approximately 15 miles south of Butte, Montana in Silver Bow County. The property covers 1,142 acres consisting of a combination of patented and unpatented mining claims. The project is within a favorable geologic domain that has hosted several multi-million ounce gold deposits. A feasibility study was not completed on the project, and there are no proven and probable reserves at the property under Guide 7. Our activities there were exploratory in nature.
On January 29, 2016, we executed a Member Interest Purchase Agreement (the “Purchase Agreement”) with New Jersey Mining Company (“NJMC”) pursuant to which we sold all of our 50% interest in the Butte Highlands, JV, LLC (the “JV Interest”). Pursuant to the Purchase Agreement, the parties agreed that consideration for the JV Interest consisted of (i) two hundred and twenty-five thousand dollars ($225,000) and (ii) three million (3,000,000) restricted shares of New Jersey (“New Jersey Shares”). $50,000 of the cash consideration (the “Down Payment”) was paid on January 25, 2016 with the remaining $175,000 of the cash consideration and the New Jersey Shares paid at closing, which occurred on January 29, 2016. The total value of the consideration at the closing date was $447,900.
During the year ended September 30, 2017, we sold all of our New Jersey Shares for net proceeds of $346,986, resulting in a gain, net of sales costs, of $124,086. As of September 30, 2018, we do not own any New Jersey Shares.
Summary
We believe the global economic environment and monetary climate continue to favor a relatively steady gold and copper price for the foreseeable future with potential for long-term price improvements. While volatility is to be expected, our expectation is that we can identify and pursue opportunities to advance our projects, despite the current gold price and market volatility.
As a company, we are considering financing and strategic corporate opportunities with our focus on providing for the advancement of projects comprising our Elder Creek and Eureka properties, and other property interests we may acquire. While our focus has previously been on Talapoosa, with the relinquishment of the Talapoosa option, we plan to further advance our priority project areas at Elder Creek and Eureka.
In addition to Elder Creek and Eureka , we believe that with appropriate funding, the Paiute Project, and the Windfall project at our Eureka property can be advanced through drill testing on targets defined this year. Further potential will be developed with the advancement of new targets at Oswego. We believe that our management and our board of directors have the knowledge and experience to evaluate financing and strategic opportunities and to provide for the advancement of multiple projects
Overview of Regulatory, Economic and Environmental Issues
Hard rock mining and drilling in the United States is a closely regulated industrial activity. Mining and drilling operations are subject to review and approval by a wide variety of agencies at the federal, state, and local level. Each level of government requires applications for permits to conduct operations. The approval process always involves consideration of many issues including but not limited to air pollution, water use and discharge, noise issues, and wildlife impacts. Mining operations involve preparation of environmental impact studies that examine the probable effect of the proposed site development. Federal agencies that may be involved include: The USFS, BLM, EPA, NIOSH, MSHA, and FWS. Individual states also have various environmental regulatory bodies, such as Departments of Ecology and Departments of Environmental Quality. Local authorities, usually counties, also have control over mining activity.
Gold, silver, and copper are mined in a wide variety of ways, both in open pit and underground mines. Open-pit mines require the gold deposit to be relatively close to the surface. These deposits tend to be low grade (such as 0.01-0.03 ounces per ton gold) and are mined using large, costly earth moving equipment, usually at very high tonnages per day.
Open-pit operations for gold often involve heap leaching as a metallurgical method to remove the gold. Heap leaching involves stacking the ore on pads which are lined with an impenetrable surface, then sprinkling the gold with a weak cyanide solution to extract the gold. The gold impregnated solution is collected and the gold recovered through further processing.
Underground metal mines generally involve higher-grade ore bodies. Less tonnage is mined underground, and generally the higher-grade ore is processed in a mill or other refining facility. This process results in the accumulation of waste by-products from the processing of the ground ore. Mills require associated tailings ponds to capture waste by-products and treat water used in the milling process.
Capital costs for mine, mill, and tailings pond construction can, depending upon the size of the operation, run into the hundreds of millions of dollars. These costs are factored into the profitability of a mining operation. Metal mining is sensitive to both cost considerations and to the value of the metal produced. Metals prices are set on a world-wide market and are not controlled by the operators of the mine. Changes in currency values or exchange rates can also impact metals prices. Changes in metals prices or operating costs can have a huge impact on the economic viability of a mining operation.
Environmental protection and remediation is an increasingly important part of mineral economics. Estimated future costs of reclamation or restoration of mined land are based principally on legal and regulatory requirements. Reclamation of affected areas after mining operations may cost millions of dollars. Often governmental permitting agencies are requiring multi-million dollar bonds from mining companies prior to granting permits, to ensure that reclamation takes place. All environmental mitigation tends to decrease profitability of the mining operation, but these expenses are recognized as a cost of doing business by modern mining and exploration companies.
Mining and exploration activities are subject to various laws and regulations governing the protection of the environment. These laws and regulations are continually changing and are generally becoming more restrictive. We conduct our operations so as to protect the public health and environment and believe our operations are in compliance with applicable laws and regulations in all material respects. We have made, and expect to make in the future, expenditures to comply with such laws and regulations, but cannot predict the full amount of such future expenditures.
Every mining activity has an environmental impact. In order for a proposed mining project to be granted the required governmental permits, mining companies are required to present proposed plans for mitigating this impact. In the United States, where our properties are located, no mine can operate without obtaining a number of permits. These permits address the social, economic, and environmental impacts of the operation and include numerous opportunities for public involvement and comment.
We intend to focus on exploration and discovery of mineral resources. If we are successful, the ore bodies discovered will be attractive to production companies, or we will potentially bring the ore bodies to production ourselves. The mining industry, like agriculture, is a fundamental component of modern industrial society, and minerals of all sorts are needed to maintain our way of life. If we are successful in finding an economic ore body, be it gold, silver or copper, sufficient value is expected to be created to reward our shareholders and allow for all production and reclamation expenses to be paid ourselves or by the actual producer to whom we convey, assign, or joint venture the project.
ITEM 3.