ITEM 2. DESCRIPTION OF PROPERTIES
Summary of Timberline’s Mineral Exploration Prospects
We have acquired mineral prospects for exploration in Nevada mainly for target commodities of gold and silver. The prospects are held by both patented and unpatented mining claims owned directly by us or through legal agreements conveying exploration and development rights to us. Most of our prospects have had a prior exploration history, and this is typical in the mineral exploration industry. Most mineral prospects go through several rounds of exploration before an economic ore body is discovered, and prior work often eliminates targets or points to new ones. Also, prior operators may have explored under a completely different commodity price structure or technological regime. Mineralization which was uneconomic in the past may be ore grade at current market prices when extracted and processed with modern technology.
Nevada Gold Properties
Talapoosa Project
In March, 2015, Timberline completed a Definitive Agreement (“Agreement”) with Gunpoint Exploration Ltd., Gunpoint Exploration US Ltd., and American Gold Capital US Inc. (collectively “Gunpoint”) to acquire an option to purchase Gunpoint’s 100% owned Talapoosa property (the “Property”) for a period of thirty months from the effective date of the Agreement. During the option period, the Agreement granted Timberline the exclusive and irrevocable option to purchase all of Gunpoint’s interest in the Property. In consideration thereof, Timberline agreed to pay Gunpoint $300,000 in cash and to issue 2,000,000 shares of Timberline’s common stock, to be vested in 500,000 share increments at 6 months, 12 months, 18 months, and 24 months from the effective date of the closing of the option acquisition transaction. In addition, during the thirty-month option period, Timberline assumed responsibility for the payment of all property holding costs.
The Agreement included a provision that within 90 days of exercise of the option granted in the Agreement, Timberline agreed to pay Gunpoint $10,000,000 in cash as consideration for purchase of the Property. In addition, Gunpoint’s parent company will retain a 1% NSR on the mineral production from the Property, subject to a purchase option by Timberline which purchase option was later eliminated pursuant to an Amendment Agreement as described below.
Pursuant to the Agreement, Timberline also agreed to provide contingent consideration to Gunpoint’s parent company based on the future price of gold. For a period of five (5) years following the exercise of the option, should the daily price of gold (as determined by the London PM Fix) be fixed at U.S. $1,600 per ounce or greater for a period of ninety (90) consecutive trading days (“Trigger Event”), Timberline would pay Gunpoint’s parent company an additional payment of $10,000,000, comprised of cash and potentially, at Timberline’s discretion, shares of Timberline’s common stock within 90 days of the date that the Trigger Event is deemed to have occurred.
On October 19, 2016, we amended the terms of the Agreement (the “Amended Agreement”) with Gunpoint. The Amended Agreement still grants us an exclusive and irrevocable option (“Option”) to purchase a 100% interest in the Property in western Nevada. Pursuant to the Amended Agreement, we have the right to exercise the Option through March 31, 2019 (“Amended Option Period”), subject to certain interim payments and cumulative project expenditures.
Pursuant to the Amended Agreement, during the Amended Option Period we are required to make the following expenditures and stock issuances:
·
Payment of $1 million and issuance of one million common shares of the Company by March 31, 2017;
·
Payment of $2 million and issuance of one million common shares of the Company by March 31, 2018;
·
Cumulative project expenditures of a minimum of $7.5 million by December 31, 2018;
·
Final payment of $8 million and issuance of one and a half million common shares of the Company by March 31, 2019.
Upon the date that Gunpoint receives the required payments and stock issuances (the “Closing Date”), we will have acquired a 100% interest in the Project. The Amended Agreement also included the elimination of Timberline’s $3 million purchase option of the 1% net smelter return royalty to be retained by Gunpoint upon Timberline’s acquisition of Talapoosa.
Pursuant to the Amended Agreement, for a period of five years following the Closing Date (“Contingent Payment Period”), should the daily price of gold (as determined by the London PM Fix) average greater than or equal to $1,600 per ounce over any 90-day period (“Amended Trigger Event”), we will pay Gunpoint an additional payment of $10 million (the “Contingent Payment”), of which a minimum of $5 million will be payable within six months of the Amended Trigger Event and the remaining $5 million payable within twelve months of the Amended Trigger Event. The Contingent Payment is payable with 50% in cash and 50% in common shares of the Company, at our sole discretion.
The Talapoosa property has no known reserves, as defined under Guide 7, and the proposed program for the property is exploratory in nature.
Property Description
The Property is located in the Talapoosa mining district in northwestern Nevada. The district lies in Lyon County about 28 miles in a straight line east of Reno, Nevada, straddling the boundary between T18N and T19N, R24E, Mount Diablo Base and Meridian. Talapoosa lies on the eastern and southeastern flanks of the Virginia Range, one of the ranges of the Basin and Range Province.
The area containing mineralized material at Talapoosa is centered immediately south of a cluster of old mine workings in the SE/4 Section 3, T18N, R24E.
Claims and Leases
American Gold Capital US Inc. (“American Gold”) is a corporation incorporated under the laws of Nevada, is a wholly owned subsidiary of Gunpoint Exploration Ltd, and is the registered claim holder. All mining claims and mineral leases are in good standing, and all taxes haves been paid in full. The option agreement covers approximately 14,870 acres of land comprising a combination of US Bureau of Land Management (“BLM”) claims, fee lands, and water rights.
American Gold is the underlying owner of 509 unpatented mining claims at Talapoosa. In addition, through a lease with Sierra Denali Minerals Inc. (Sierra Denali Minerals), American Gold leases 26 unpatented lode claims. American Gold also owns fee land located in the project area. American Gold also leases property from the Sario Livestock Company and from Nevada Bighorn Unlimited. The claims, leased fee land, and fee land owned by American Gold are contiguous.
American Gold is the registered, legal and beneficial owner or lessee of the Talapoosa Claims free and clear of any encumbrances, agreements, adverse claims, royalties, profit interests or other payments in the nature of a royalty, recorded or unrecorded. However, the unpatented mining claims are located on land controlled by the US Department of the Interior Bureau of Land Management (BLM), which required annual mining claim maintenance fees to be timely paid by August 31, 2016 and a notice to hold mining claims to be timely recorded in the Official Records of the Lyons County Recorder’s Office by October 31, 2016.
American Gold owns 509 unpatented mining claims at Talapoosa located in Sections 2, 3, 4, 5, 8, 9, 10, 11, and 14 of T18N, R24E and Section 6 of T18N, R25E and Sections 20, 22, 26, 28, 32, 34, and 36, T19N, R24E, Mount Diablo Base and Meridian of which two are located on the resource area. In addition, through a lease with Sierra Denali Minerals Inc. (Sierra Denali Minerals) described below, American Gold leases 26 unpatented lode claims in Sections 2, 3, and 11, T18N, R24E and Section 34, T19N, R24E, of which nine are located on the resource area.
American Gold also owns fee land consisting of the N/2 Section 3 and the N/2 S/2 Section 3, T18N, R24E, excluding certain public lands within this section, which is located on the resource area. The annual property taxes haves been timely paid to Lyon County Treasurers Office and are considered current.
American Gold leases Sections 27 (excepting a 50 ft.-wide road easement), 29, 33, and 35, T19N, R24E from the Sario Livestock Company. The lease entitles the lessor to a 4.5% net smelter return (“NSR”) royalty that may be eliminated by payment of $1 million per section. American Gold also leases Sections 21 and 23, T19N, R24E from Nevada Bighorn Unlimited. These leases carry a 2% NSR if the gold price is less than $1,000/oz. and a 3% NSR if the gold price is greater than $1,000/oz. The NSR may be eliminated by a payment of $500,000 per section to the lessor. American Gold’s leases are not located on the resource area.
The claims, leased fee land, and fee land owned by American Gold are contiguous.
Talapoosa Mining, Inc. leased 26 unpatented mining claims from the estates of Alexander von Hafften and Sebelle Harden von Hafften in a lease originally dated July 14, 1990, and amended on August 25, 1998. These claims are now owned by Sierra Denali Minerals and leased by American Gold. Based on the 1998 amendment, the annual minimum payment was $75,000; however, until payment of a production royalty begins, the minimum annual payment due was $25,000 with the difference to be considered a deferred payment until commencement of production royalty payments. As described by Devenyns (2007), “beginning in the first lease year following the commencement of production royalty payments from the Project, the deferred payments would be paid at the rate of $75,000 per year from proceeds of products mined from the entirety of the Project until the total of the deferred amounts was paid. Payments of the deferred amounts were in addition to the minimum payments.” As of July 14, 2016, including the deferral of $40,000 of that year’s minimum annual payment, the current total deferral amount is $840,000. Annual mining lease payments have been timely made, and the mining lease is considered to be in good standing.
The owners will receive a 5% NSR production royalty with credit for one-half of the annual payment. The original term of the lease was for 10 years with the opportunity to extend it for two additional five-year periods. A second amendment of mining lease was entered into effect July 13, 2010 which contained the following terms:
·
The parties to the lease are now Sierra Denali Minerals and American Gold.
·
The lease term is extended by 10 years from July 14, 2010 and may be extended for two additional five year periods, provided the Project has commenced production and continues to pay production royalty and deferred payments.
·
The owner was paid $10,000 for signing the extension of the lease and $25,000 for the payment due July 14, 2010 with $50,000 being credited to the deferred payment balance.
·
Beginning with the payment due July 14, 2011 and thereafter, the minimum payment of $35,000 per year with $40,000 per year being considered a deferred payment.
·
Acknowledgement that through July 14, 2010, the deferred payment balance is $635,000, which has since been re-calculated to be $840,000 through July 14, 2016.
Accessibility, Physiography, Climate, Infrastructure
Year-round access to the Talapoosa district from Reno is via Interstate 80, east approximately 30 miles to Fernley, then south on US Alternate 95 for 13 miles to Silver Springs. The property sits immediately northwest of Silver Springs and may be accessed by traveling county and local gravel roads along two route options for approximately 4 miles to the approximate center of the district and the area of the Talapoosa mineralized material. Access to the Property is available year round.
Talapoosa lies on the eastern and southeastern flanks of the Virginia Range with elevations ranging from 4,400 ft. at the valley floor to 6,500 ft. on the higher surrounding hills, with an elevation of approximately 5,300 to 5,500 ft. at the Talapoosa project site.
The region of the Talapoosa project is characterized as a high-desert environment with sparse vegetation, situated in the rain shadow of the Sierra Nevada to the west. The climate at Talapoosa is moderate and conducive to 12-month exploration or mining operations. Summers are hot and dry with temperatures commonly reaching or exceeding 90°F with the average around 78°F. Winter weather is moderate with highs of 45ºF and lows around 20°F with an average of 32°F. Annual precipitation is estimated to be approximately 13.4 in., of which snowfall accounts for about one-third and rarely remains on the ground longer than a few days. Annual evaporation rates are estimated to be about 50 in. per year.
The Talapoosa project is located approximately 45 miles in road distance from Reno, whose metropolitan area has a population of approximately 225,000, and 30 miles in road distance from Nevada’s capital, Carson City, with a population of approximately 55,000. The Reno / Sparks area is the closest major metropolitan area. Other population centers that are in the vicinity of the project are as follows:
·
Silver Springs - Located approximately 4 miles southeast of the Project with a population of approximately 5,000.
·
Fernley - Located approximately 18 miles northeast of the Project with a population of approximately 19,000.
·
Yerington - Located approximately 30 miles south of the Project with a population of approximately 3,000.
All centers provide excellent sources of skilled and unskilled labor, professionals, and most services needed for a mining operation.
Reno has an international airport with numerous regional flight schedules daily. Silver Springs has a regional airport with a single 7,200 ft. military grade landing strip. A light-duty commercial power line passes through the Project running from the southern end of the Talapoosa property. Upgrades to the electric infrastructure will be required to advance the Project. It is anticipated that a new power line will be constructed along the same alignment as the existing power line and will be extended approximately 2.5 miles to the plant area. A natural gas pipeline passes approximately 2 miles nearby the property and crosses one of the two access routes and offers an alternative power supply opportunity for the project.
Water supply for the project is expected to be leased from groundwater owners in the Silver Springs valley. Previous engineering studies have identified suitable areas for plant and ancillary facilities and also heap-leach pad and waste disposal.
Geology
The Talapoosa project lies in the western Basin and Range Province, a structural province of generally north-trending mountain ranges and intervening valleys formed by regional extension during Tertiary time. The Sierra Nevada on the California-Nevada border forms the western margin of the province. The eastern slope of the Sierra Nevada is cut by major north-trending normal faults that form north-trending mountain ranges (Moore 1969). The Virginia Range, on whose east flank the Talapoosa project is located, along with the Pine Nut Mountains, Wellington Hills, and Sweetwater Range to the south, forms one of four master fault-block ranges of this type that can be considered north-trending spurs of the Sierra Nevada.
The rocks of the Sierra Nevada in this region are predominantly granitic intrusions of the Mesozoic Sierra Nevada batholith. Older Mesozoic metavolcanic and metasedimentary rocks, thought to be predominantly Late Triassic and Early Jurassic based on fossil evidence (Moore 1969), are preserved as roof pendants and septa within the batholithic intrusions.
Miocene and younger volcanic rocks overlie the Mesozoic intrusions in this part of western Nevada. Late Miocene rhyolitic tuffs with some interbedded rhyolitic lava and vesicular basalt form the base of the volcanic sequence, overlain by Miocene-Pliocene, predominantly dacitic and andesitic volcanic and related intrusive rocks with interbedded sedimentary rocks. Interbedded with and overlying the intermediate volcanic rocks throughout this region are Pliocene sedimentary rocks that were deposited by lakes and streams in isolated basins adjacent to topographic highs. Late Pliocene to Pleistocene basaltic rocks, primarily lava flows, are widespread throughout the region, and represent the youngest episode of volcanism and are post-mineralization.
Cenozoic faulting, tilting and warping associated with regional extension that resulted in the Basin and Range Province are the most recent and conspicuous structural features of the region. While the extension is manifested by a predominantly north-trending structural grain with normal faulting, in this part of western Nevada there is also the northwest-trending Walker Lane trend with oblique and strike-slip faulting and Cenozoic mineralization.
The Talapoosa project, situated within the Virginia Range, is composed of a thick sequence of Miocene-Pliocene volcanic and sedimentary rocks that overlie Mesozoic metamorphic and granite found throughout the Sierra Nevada.
The Pyramid Sequence is the base of the geological package on the Talapoosa project. It is a sequence of vesicular basalt, felsic ash-flow tuffs and hydrothermal eruption breccias associated with epithermal mineralization along the Appaloosa structure.
The Kate Peak Formation hosts all of the known mineralization in the district and overlays the Pyramid Sequence. The Kate Peak Formation consists of dacitic tuff, tuff breccia, flows, lava dome carapace debris, and post-volcanic dacite porphyry sills or dykes. The base of the formation is marked by a group of clastic sedimentary rocks that include basal volcanic conglomerate, overlain by thinly bedded shale and sandstone. The unit is estimated to be approximately 1,000 ft. thick at the Talapoosa project. The formation is divided into an andesite lower member and a dacite upper member. The presence of a porous tuffaceous unit, which was silicified and then repeatedly cracked and mineralized, is referred to as the Crystal-Poor Welded Tuff. The Kate Peak Formation is described as being separated from the underlying Pyramid Sequence by the Talapoosa Fault.
The Pliocene-aged Coal Creek (Canyon) Formation unconformably overlays the Kate Peak formation. It is described as a mixture of sand, silt, and clay derived from pyroclastic volcanic rocks. It is no more than a few tens of feet thick at the Talapoosa project.
The Lousetown Formation, a basaltic unit ranging from a few feet thick to as much as 300 ft. in thickness, unconformably overlays the Coal Creek Formation. The unit is a vesicular olivine basalt or pyroxene andesite with flows capping the hills surrounding the Talapoosa project.
Mineralization
The mineralization was divided into the following domains, separated by north-northwest fault, for the purpose of resource modeling.
·
Bear Creek Hanging-Wall Vein System/Domain, bounded by Ripper Fault to south and Cabin Fault to north. The Hanging-Wall vein is comprised predominantly of massive white sulphide-poor silica with typical low-sulfidation epithermal textures, including recrystallization, coliform and crustiform banding, adularia bands, amethyst, etc.
·
Bear Creek Footwall Vein System/Domain, bounded by Cabin Fault to south and Talapoosa (South) Fault to the north. The Footwall vein is more sulphide-rich, associated with a number of gangue phases including red hematitic silica, chlorite and minor white to clear silica.
·
Main Zone Vein System/Domain bounded by Talapoosa (South) Fault to the south and Opal/Dyke Fault to the north.
The mineralization at both Dyke Adit and East Hill shows similarities in appearance and texture to that of the Hanging-Wall Zone at Bear Creek.
The modeling of veins and their bounding faults indicates that the general trend of all mineralization is around 115°, with two prominent dip angles:
·
Steeply-dipping veins at approximately 70° south, for the Hanging-Wall and Footwall Zones at Bear Creek and for the eastern-most portion of the Main Zone.
·
Shallowly-dipping veins, at approximately 20 to 40° south for the Dyke Adit, northwest part of the Main Zone (north) and the East Hill Vein. At least in the Main Zone, the flattening of vein dip could be the result of dilatational zones developed between the Talapoosa and Dyke Faults. In the case of the Dyke Adit and East Hill veins the attitude of the veining appears to parallel that of the contact between the hornblende andesite porphyry and the adjacent unit.
Historic Exploration
Exploration of the Talapoosa project dates back to 1863 with the discovery of silver mineralization on the Talapoosa project by prospectors working outwards from the Comstock Lode area. Modern era exploration began in the 1950’s with Great Basin Exploration and extended periodically through the 1990’s by several companies including: Duval Corporation, Homestake Mining Company, Superior Oil Company, Bear Creek Mining, Athena Gold, Placer Dome, Pegasus Gold, and Miramar Mining.
A total of 586 drill holes were completed between 1977 and 1999 along with multiple estimations of mineralized material and geologic and engineering studies. Historic estimates of mineralized material at Talapoosa consist of 42.5 million tons of in-place bulk tonnage with an average grade of 0.03 ounces of gold per ton and 0.37 ounces of silver per ton. The Talapoosa project was fully permitted by Miramar Mining Corporation with the BLM and the State of Nevada in 1996, but remained undeveloped due to low prevailing metal prices.
In the 2000’s, Cascade Metal US, Inc. purchased the property and, under the new name of American Gold, was acquired by Chesapeake Gold Corp. in 2007. In 2010, Christopher James Gold Corporation acquired the Talapoosa project from American Gold and operated exploration under the name of Gunpoint, from whom Timberline optioned the property in March, 2015.
Recent Exploration
Since acquisition in 2010 until the option agreement with Timberline in March, 2015, Gunpoint completed geologic studies, mapping, drilling of 15,226 feet of diamond drill core in 2011, and follow-up metallurgical studies. In addition, in 2012, Gunpoint commissioned Tetra Tech, Inc. (“Tetra Tech”) to complete a National Instrument (“NI”) 43-101 resource study which was entitled Technical Report and Resource Estimate on the Talapoosa Project, Nevada. The Technical Report was prepared by Tetra Tech of Toronto, Ontario under the supervision of Todd McCracken, who is a qualified person under NI 43-101.
The deposit is open on strike, and we believe potential exists to expand the quantity of mineralized material with additional exploration. The acquisition includes the 4 mile-long Appaloosa zone located one mile to the north of and parallel to the Talapoosa mineralized area. The Appaloosa zone crops out as epithermal-type sinter and breccia with vein fragments and is untested but for six historic, shallow drill holes.
Upon completion of the Option to Purchase Agreement for the property from Gunpoint, in March, 2015, we completed an NI 43-101 compliant Technical Report entitled “Technical Report and Resource Estimate on the Talapoosa Project, Nevada,” dated March 24, 2015 (the “Talapoosa Technical Report”) substantiating the mineralization for the Talapoosa project. Upon completion of the Talapoosa Technical Report, we initiated an NI 43-101 Preliminary Economic Assessment (“PEA”) on the property. Results of the PEA were released on April 27, 2015 and reported positive results on a potential open pit mine with heap-leach processing and Merrill Crowe recovery of gold and silver. To support the PEA, we completed due diligence reviews on the gold and silver mineralization; historic studies including metallurgy, geotechnical pit wall stability, hydrology, geochemistry, mining methods, and facility siting for the previously proposed operation.
During the difficult commodities environment of fiscal 2016, no drilling activities were completed on the Talapoosa Project. However, in July 2016, Timberline did initiate a review of metallurgical data and a follow-up test program. The program included re-sampling of four metallurgical composite samples originally tested by Gunpoint Exploration in 2015. The samples have been crushed using High Pressure Grinding Roll (HPGR) technology, tested for enhanced permeability and geotechnical strength of agglomerates, and will selectively be subjected to column leach testing. As of the date of this Annual Report, test results have not been finalized.
Subject to available capital, work plans include drilling to provide additional composite core samples for advanced metallurgical testing to optimize gold and silver recovery and drill testing to expand the resource into high priority areas that have had limited drilling. These areas include Dyke Adit North and East Hill. This work has a prospective budget of approximately $4 million, subject to the availability of capital.
This work is expected to increase our level of confidence for certain parts of the mineralized zone, support initiation of studies to update historic permits to current standards, and lay the foundation for future completion of a Feasibility Study (“FS”) on the Talapoosa project. For further details on the exploration budget for the Talapoosa Property, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation - Mineral Exploration - Exploration Plans and Budget.”
Cautionary Note to U.S. Investors: The Talapoosa Technical Report and PEA use the terms "mineral resource", "measured mineral resource", "indicated mineral resource", and "inferred mineral resource." We advise investors that these terms are defined in and required to be disclosed by NI 43-101; however, these terms are not defined terms under Guide 7 and are normally not permitted to be used in reports and registration statements filed with the SEC. See “Cautionary Note to U.S. Investors Regarding Mineral Reserve and Resource Estimates,” above.
There are no proven and probable reserves as defined under Guide 7 at Talapoosa, and our activities there remain exploratory in nature.
Eureka (Battle Mountain/Eureka Trend)
We acquired the Eureka property as part of our acquisition of Staccato Gold Resources Ltd. (“Staccato Gold”) and its wholly owned subsidiary, BH Minerals USA, Inc. (“BH Minerals”), in June 2010. Eureka comprises an area of approximately 16,000 acres. The property’s northern boundary is located approximately 1 mile south of the town of Eureka, Nevada, in the Eureka Mining district within the Battle Mountain - Eureka Mineral Trend, also referred to as the Cortez Trend.
The Eureka property has no
known reserves, as defined under Guide 7, and the proposed program for the property is exploratory in nature.
Property Description
The
Eureka property
is located in the southern part of the Eureka mining district of Eureka County, Nevada, within T19N, R53E and unsurveyed T17N and T18N, and R53E at the southern end of the Cortez Trend (Battle Mountain/Eureka Trend). The Eureka property is also within the bounds of the United States Geological Survey (“USGS”) 1:24,000 scale 7.5 minute topographic series maps of the Pinto Summit and Spring Valley Summit quadrangles.
All unpatented mining claims on the Eureka property have been located under the General Mining Laws of the United States on US Bureau of Land Management (“BLM”) managed lands.
We pay federal and county claim maintenance fees on the Eureka property. The federal claim fees are due to the BLM by September 1 of each year, and the remainder is due to Eureka County by November 1 of each year. The following table summarizes the claims and royalties for the Eureka property:
Eureka Property Claim and Royalty Summary
Property Name
& Agreements/Royalties
Type of Claim
Number of Claims
Area
Lookout Mountain
Mining lease and agreement dated August 22, 2003, and amended on June 1, 2008, between Timberline and Rocky Canyon Mining Company; 3.5% Net Smelter Return (NSR) royalty + 1.5% NSR royalty capped at $1.5 million (excludes Trevor and Dave claims); 20-year lease term commencing June 1, 2008; annual advanced royalty payment of $72,000.
Unpatented
6,368 acres
Trail
Timberline holds title
Unpatented
620 acres
South Ratto
Timberline holds title; 4% NSR
Unpatented
1,850 acres
Hoosac
4% NSR
Unpatented
1,250 acres
Little Rosa
(Hoosac royalty applies)
Patented
North Amselco
4% NSR
Unpatented
1,850 acres
Rambler
(North Amselco royalty applies)
Patented
South Rustler/W-Claims
Claims owned by DFH Co., a subsidiary of Royal Gold, Inc.
Unpatented
298 acres
Silverado/TL 12
1%-3% NSR
Unpatented
947 acres
Secret Canyon/Oswego
Timberline holds title.
(Includes 2 mill sites on Syracuse 1 & 2)
0 - 3% NSR
Unpatented
1,488 acres
1% NSR
Patented
Windfall
Timberline holds title; 4% NSR
Patented
165 acres
New York Canyon
Timberline holds title; 4% NSR
Unpatented
862 acres
3-5% NSR
Patented
Total Unpatented Lode Claims
15,698 acres
Total Patented Lode Claims
We have the right to explore and develop the Lookout Mountain project subject to a mining lease and agreement dated August 22, 2003 with Rocky Canyon Mining Company, and amended on June 1, 2008. The lease term was extended to 20 years on June 1, 2008, and thereafter for as long as minerals are mined on the project. Advance royalty payments are $6,000 per month, or $72,000 per year. The work commitment on the project has been fulfilled. A 3.5% NSR royalty, plus a 1.5% NSR royalty capped at $1.5 million (excludes Trevor and Dave claims) exists on the project.
During the year ended September 30, 2012, we acquired the Windfall patented claims. The claims were acquired in exchange for $400,000 cash and 76,662 shares of our common stock with a value of $500,000, based upon the weighted-average closing price of our common stock on the NYSE MKT during the 15 days prior to the acquisition. A 4% NSR royalty exists on these claims.
The Secret Canyon/Oswego, South Ratto, and New York Canyon projects are owned by us, subject to royalty agreements. NSR royalties of 2% exist on the projects for claims located within one mile of the Windfall Patented claims. A small portion of the Heiro-Syracuse claim group is subject to an additional 1% NSR.
The Hamburg Ridge project is composed of the Hoosac, North Amselco, and South Rustler/W claim groups. The Hoosac and North Amselco claims are owned by us and are currently under lease to DFH Co., a subsidiary of Royal Gold, Inc. No payments are due under the lease agreement. The South Rustler/W-Claims are owned by DFH Co. We currently pay all of the claim maintenance fees for all of these claims.
Accessibility, Physiography, Climate and Infrastructure
The Eureka property is located approximately one mile south and southwest of the town of Eureka, within the southern part of the Eureka Mining district of Eureka County, Nevada. The Eureka property is located at the southeastern end of the Battle Mountain/Eureka Trend (Cortez Trend) of gold and base-metal deposits in north-central Nevada.
The Eureka property is situated in north-central Nevada in an area with established mining infrastructure. Transmission power lines serve Eureka from the north. All essential services such as food and lodging are available in Eureka, including the dockage for shipments of heavy equipment. A small airport at Eureka is available for private air transport. Railroad access is also available in the area. The gold mines of north-central Nevada continue to produce a significant portion of the world’s gold, and skilled miners and mining professionals are available in Eureka, and 100 miles to the north in Carlin, Elko, and Spring Creek. Permitting a mining operation in Nevada has been a process with which local, state, and federal regulators are very familiar and generally cooperative.
Terrain on the Eureka property is rugged, with high ridges, steep canyons, and narrow valleys. Elevations range from 7,000 to 9,000 feet. Ridges show abundant bedrock exposures, slopes and valleys are typically covered by soil and alluvium. Sagebrush abounds in lower-elevation areas while juniper and pinion cover the higher elevations. Grasses and shrubs grow on the highest ridge tops. The climate of the project area is semi-arid with the area receiving moderate winter snows and occasional summer thunderstorms, with heavy rain from time to time during otherwise hot and dry summers. In winter, access is not maintained off the paved roads and November snow commonly lingers until April.
U.S. Highway 50 passes to the east of the Eureka property and access is gained by heading south out of Eureka on U.S. Highway 50 and connecting with unpaved local roads, some of which are periodically maintained by Eureka County. The turnoff for the New York Canyon claim group is about a half mile south of Eureka on U.S. Highway 50 and is an unpaved road running up New York Canyon to the east side of the claim group.
The Windfall group and the northern parts of the Hoosac and Lookout Mountain groups are accessed by the Windfall Canyon Road and its westward extension (the former haul road for the Lookout Mountain Mine), which turns southwest off U.S. Highway 50 approximately 2 miles south of Eureka.
The southern parts of the Eureka property are accessed by traveling approximately 8 miles south of Eureka on U.S. Highway 50 to South Gate, then 1 mile south-southwest on the Fish Creek Valley road to the unimproved Secret Canyon Road, then northwest to the southern part of the Hoosac claims. Approximately 2 miles from South Gate on the Fish Creek Valley Road, a turnoff to the west and northwest on the Ratto Canyon Road accesses the southern portion of the Lookout Mountain group. Many dirt tracks within the Eureka property allow additional access.
Summer temperatures usually consist of many consecutive days over 90º F (32.2º C), and temperatures can reach as high as 100º F (40.6° C) or more. Winter temperatures generally range from as cold as below 0º F (-17.8ºC) to usually in the 20º to 35ºF (-6.67º to 1.7 º C) range. Precipitation amounts vary from year to year, averaging about 10.0 inches (25.4 cm) for the area. Several feet of snow usually accumulate on the property during the winter months.
Eureka Property Ownership
Staccato amended the Lookout Mountain project lease agreement in June 2008. The lease term was extended to 20 years, and thereafter for as long as minerals are mined on the project. Advance royalty payments are $72,000 per year. Pursuant to the amended lease, annual minimum exploration expenditures of $250,000 are required for five years commencing on June 1, 2008, and an additional expenditure of $250,000 is required before June 1, 2016, for a total minimum work commitment of $1,500,000. Exploration expenditures in excess of $250,000 in any year can be accumulated and carried forward and credited to expenditures required in succeeding years. We have fulfilled the work commitment on the Lookout Mountain project.
Other projects that comprise the extensive Eureka property, including the Secret Canyon/Oswego, South Ratto, and New York Canyon projects, and a large portion of the Hamburg Ridge project, are owned by us subject to underlying royalty agreements.
Historic Exploration: 1970’s to 1990’s
The most significant exploration on the Eureka property has been the drilling programs mounted over recent years. Drilling on the Hoosac and Windfall claims date from Norse-Windfall (63 holes, 1970s-1980s), Amselco (8 holes, mid-1980s), Tenneco (18 holes, 1989-1991), Pathfinder (18 holes, 1993), and Pathfinder/Cambior (36 holes, 1995-1997). On the Lookout Mountain claim group, drilling programs began with Amselco (296 holes, 1978-1985) followed by the Windfall group (20 holes, 1986), EFL Gold Company (10 holes, 1990), Barrick (40 holes, 1992-93), and Echo Bay (70 holes, 1994-95). The drilling programs were conducted concurrent with and guided by extensive geologic mapping, geochemical rock and soil sampling programs, and air and ground geophysics. Geological mapping and geochemical programs were very successful in discovering target areas characterized by permissive structures and traces of gold with arsenic, antimony, and mercury anomalies in soil and rock.
The methods of collection and analyses of some historical soil and rock samples were not always available in the data, but it is likely that the samples were collected, documented, prepared, and analyzed to the standards of professional diligence and analytical techniques applicable at the time. The importance of a geochemical-geological exploration approach is evidenced by the fact that the drilling of many such anomalies has resulted in significant indications of disseminated gold mineralization. The Windfall, Rustler, and Paroni deposits on the Windfall claims and the Lookout Mountain deposit were discovered by drilling soil and rock anomalies in permissive structural and stratigraphic settings. Drill testing of several geochemical anomalies in permissive geological settings has also resulted in the discovery of several additional promising zones of gold mineralization on the Hamburg Ridge, Windfall, and Lookout Mountain claim groups. As yet, these zones have not been fully tested.
Amselco Exploration began exploring the Lookout Mountain project in 1978, conducting extensive geologic mapping, soil and rock sampling and an initial 15-hole reverse circulation drilling program which tested gold mineralization along the Ratto Ridge Fault and associated geochemical anomalies and jasperoids developed along the N-S trending Ratto Ridge. This drilling discovered significant sediment-hosted disseminated gold mineralization at depth. Amselco drilled 296 holes between 1978 and 1985, also discovering five areas of gold mineralization along Ratto Ridge which contain partially developed gold resources. These areas are located at South Lookout Mountain, Pinnacle Peak, Triple Junction, South Ratto Ridge, and South Adit. In 1986, while Amselco was in process of becoming BP Minerals, Amselco management decided that the Lookout Mountain deposit was not of further interest, even though their geologists reportedly believed the deposit had significant potential. The property was optioned to a joint venture of three companies which then owned Norse-Windfall Mines.
In 1990, EFL Gold Mines took bulk samples from the floor of the Lookout Mountain pit. These samples returned assays values ranging from 0.10 to 0.135 oz. of gold/ton. EFL also drilled nine holes, two of which, drilled 500 feet (152 meters) into the floor of the pit, showed both oxide and sulfide gold mineralization.
During the period 1992-1993, Barrick completed geologic mapping, took more than 500 soil samples to expand and fill in Amselco’s soil grid, and drilled 42 widely spaced holes, primarily along Ratto Ridge. Drilling targeted favorable stratigraphy at depth near fault intersections. Barrick discovered that geochemical anomalies are apparently controlled by E-NE and N-NW to NW trending cross structures which intersect the N-S trending Ratto Ridge Fault. Much of the Barrick work focused on the potential in Cambrian Dunderberg Shale and Hamburg Dolomite east of the Ratto Ridge Fault, and potential in the Devonian Nevada Group, especially the Bartine Limestone west of the fault. Outcrops of Bartine Limestone in the area show weak gold mineralization, strong alteration, and anomalous pathfinder element geochemistry. Barrick drilled 42 holes to a maximum depth of approximately 1,300 feet and encountered several gold intercepts.
Work by Barrick also included air and ground geophysics and a stratigraphic and geochemical study in conjunction with geologic mapping to develop and prioritize several target areas. Approximately 800 rock samples were collected and had high-quality multi-element ICP, graphite furnace analyses at MB Associates in California, and ICP and neutron activation analysis at Activation Laboratories in Canada. However, geological and geochemical targets, or additional drilling in areas of known mineralization previously discovered by Amselco found insufficient mineralization to meet Barrick’s objectives. It should be noted that the potential for mineralization west of the Ratto Ridge crest has not been explored adequately.
Echo Bay (1993-95) not only worked Ratto Ridge but also acquired additional ground to the north, south, and southwest. They conducted mapping, sampling, and scattered drilling in the area, exploring deep high-grade potential in the Cambrian Dunderberg Shale and Hamburg Dolomite, and testing Devonian Nevada Group targets west of the Ratto Ridge Fault. Echo Bay drilled several promising holes, including drill hole EBR 27 which intersected 110 feet grading 0.043 oz. of gold/ton in the Dunderberg, and drill hole EBR-9 which intersected 115 feet grading 0.043 oz. of gold/ton in the Nevada Group. Offsets of EBR-9 found 90 feet grading 0.028 oz. of gold/ton, and another hole which was lost before reaching planned depth found 45 feet of 0.024 oz. of gold/ton. Further offsets of EBR-9 and several widely spaced holes averaging 1,000 feet deep (EBR 15, 16, 17, 18, and 20) found some anomalous gold along Ratto Ridge but no major intercepts. Eventually, the Echo Bay project totaled 104 RC holes. Faced with depletion of budgets with no significant exploration success, the decline in gold prices and large land payments, Echo Bay decided to drop the property.
On the Windfall, Hamburg Ridge, and New York Canyon claim groups, Bill Wilson of the Idaho Mining Corp, then Windfall Venture, later Norse-Windfall, initiated reconnaissance mapping, soil and rock chip sampling, trenching, and drilling in the early 1970s. He noted that the original underground Windfall Mine, which was discovered in 1908 and produced approximately 65,000 tons of “invisible gold” mineralized rock grading 0.368 oz./ton, was a Carlin-type sediment-hosted disseminated gold occurrence. Wilson’s work emphasized the east side of Hamburg Ridge, the Windfall Trend, where he drilled, with conventional air rotary, holes through, and Z-1 through Z-31, Z42, and ZA-1 on the current Windfall group. He drilled holes Z32-41 on the Hoosac group. The drill holes were generally from 50 to 250 feet deep. Six of Wilson’s original forty-three Z-holes intersected gold mineralization exceeding 0.02 oz. of gold/ton. This success led to infill drilling
and the development of the Windfall open pit mine in 1975, and soon thereafter, the Rustler and Paroni open pit mines. Gold was extracted in a heap-leach operation from sanded and silicified dolomite and silicified shale.
No geologic maps exist from this period other than a few maps compiled from USGS work. Although many drill hole location maps are archived in Century Gold files, the coordinates for many drill hole collars are not available, very few collars are visible in the field, and assay data from infill drilling is poorly documented.
Exploration: 2005 to 2010 (Staccato Gold)
Staccato Gold advanced exploration of the Eureka property and completed drilling between 2005 and 2007, and in follow-up initiated a comprehensive work program in June 2008 which included geologic modeling of all drilling results. This modeling included structural and stratigraphic controls to mineralization, additional density determinations, and new drilling and metallurgical test data. Results of this work were incorporated into subsequent exploration work completed since 2008.
From 2005-2007 core drilling programs at Lookout Mountain completed by Staccato Gold provided data to better define stratigraphy in the higher-grade breccia-hosted gold zones at the Lookout Mountain pit, and discovered new areas of mineralization. The core drilling and a drill hole re-logging program demonstrated the stratabound nature of gold mineralization in thick zones of collapse breccia within carbonate rock flanking the Ratto Ridge structural zone. Metallurgical and other technical characteristics of known mineralization were subsequently investigated at Lookout Mountain.
In October 2009, Staccato Gold also initiated work at the Windfall Project including detailed mapping and sampling programs and completed a ten-hole drill program totaling 8,030 feet. The drilling program focused on testing the extent of gold mineralization below the Windfall and Rustler open pits, located approximately 3 miles northeast of the main Lookout Mountain project mineralized area. The Windfall project is one of several prospective gold projects on our extensive Eureka property in Nevada.
Results from the surface mapping program, review of historic production and geologic maps, and drilling indicate that high-grade gold is locally controlled within cross structures cutting the main Windfall fault zone, at the contact between the Hamburg Dolomite and Dunderburg Shale. The 2009 drill program tested approximately 3,600 feet of strike length of the Windfall fault zone with wide spaced drilling. The Windfall fault zone is part of an extensive mineralized structural trend which extends for over 17,000 feet based on historic data.
All holes in the 2009 exploration program encountered thick intercepts of low-grade gold (holes 5-12) or anomalous gold mineralization (holes 13 and 14) within the Windfall fault zone. The offset and exploration holes drilled define the Windfall fault zone as a 150 to 200-foot thick zone striking roughly north-south and dipping approximately 60 degrees to the east, containing two or more significant zones of mineralization.
Five of the ten holes were drilled as offsets to follow up on the high-grade gold intercept drilled in hole 4 (75 feet at 0.153 ounces of gold/ton), and five were drilled as exploratory holes to test the strike and dip extent of the Windfall fault zone. Several thick intercepts of gold mineralization were returned, including 135 feet at 0.011 ounces of gold/ton in hole 7, 135 feet at 0.016 ounces of gold/ton in hole 8, 115 feet at 0.010 ounces of gold/ton in hole 9, and 100 feet at 0.018 ounces of gold/ton in hole 11.
A secondary hanging wall structure identified by the mapping program was also encountered in drill holes 7, 8, 11, and 13 and is characterized by strong silicification and decalcification of Windfall Formation and Dunderberg shale in the hanging wall side of the fault, and Dunderberg shale and Hamburg Dolomite on the footwall side. Drilling indicates a down to the east offset of the Dunderberg - Hamburg contact. This secondary structure represents an attractive and untested target at depth.
Eureka Exploration: 2010 to present (Timberline)
We believe that the Eureka property has excellent potential for continued exploration success both at the deposit scale and on the regional scale. The current Lookout Mountain mineralization is defined over a relatively small area near the middle of a mineralized structural corridor that extends up to 6 to 7 kilometers (3.7 to 4.3 miles) in strike length. This structure hosts several areas of drill-indicated mineralization, and the exploration potential in this corridor is strong, as evidenced by historic drilling, and soil and rock geochemical analyses. The Lookout Mountain mineralization itself is open for expansion at depth and along strike, especially to the south. Regionally, several other target areas also exist where historic production and exploration have occurred, but only limited systematic exploration has been conducted.
The Lookout Mountain project and Windfall project areas have now been mapped and sampled including a detailed program conducted over the main mineralized areas. The principal objectives of the mapping and sampling program were to characterize offsets along the main mineralized fault zones at Windfall and Lookout Mountain, identify orientations of mineralized cross structures intersecting the main structural zones, and follow up on soil anomalies. The mapping program, combined with surface sampling and acquisition of historic data, has provided a clearer understanding of the structures along the Ratto Ridge and Windfall areas, as well as identified several significant new exploration target areas.
Over 400 drill holes have been re-logged along Ratto Ridge at Lookout Mountain to ensure geologic consistency with surface mapping. Based on this work, new geologic cross sections and plans were constructed for the entire Lookout Mountain deposit. Geologic grade shells have also been built, and construction of a 3-D model of the geology based on the results of historic drill re-logging and mapping efforts was completed. This new work led to an updated mineral estimate that resolved past technical issues and provides a basis for potentially advancing the property into the scoping/pre-feasibility study phase following additional drilling.
An exploration Plan of Operations has been approved by the BLM and the State of Nevada Department of Environmental Protection (“NDEP”) for the Lookout Mountain project. The Plan of Operations calls for approximately 266 acres of disturbance that can be accessed for use in a phased approach, and covers the entire Ratto Ridge structural zone. The Plan of Operations will allow us to complete additional infill, metallurgical, and exploration drilling necessary to advance the development of the Lookout Mountain project.
From 2010 through 2013, the exploration work programs totaled approximately $9,000,000 on the Eureka property. Program objectives were to obtain sufficient data to prepare an NI 43-101 compliant technical report at Lookout Mountain, conduct initial gold recovery studies, initiate environmental baseline investigations, better understand the controls of mineralization, and to outline additional exploration drill targets. In summary, these objectives were met in the 2010-2013 exploration by completion of the following:
·
16,675 feet of core drilling focused primarily for metallurgical and geotechnical scoping studies;
·
46,965 feet of reverse circulation (RC) drilling directed primarily at resource in-fill and definition drilling;
·
Drill testing of high-grade sulfide lenses within the oxide mineralization to better understand the geologic controls and geometry;
·
Initial metallurgical testing on core samples to define heap leach characteristics and process parameters;
·
Channel sampling and bulk sampling within the historic Lookout Mountain pit for bench-scale metallurgical testing;
·
Identification of additional exploration targets on the Eureka Property outside of the main Lookout Mountain Project area through detailed geologic mapping and sampling;
·
Drilling and construction of additional groundwater monitoring wells for hydrological characterization;
·
Initiation of geotechnical pit-wall stability and heap leach pad alternative studies; and
·
Initiation of additional baseline hydrology and environmental geochemistry studies directed at state and BLM permitting.
An initial technical report entitled, Technical Report on the Lookout Mountain Project, Eureka County, Nevada, USA, compliant with NI 43-101 (“2011 Technical Report”), was completed on May 2, 2011. The Technical Report was prepared by Mine Development Associates (“MDA”) of Reno, Nevada under the supervision of Michael M. Gustin, Senior Geologist, who is a qualified person under NI 43-101. The Technical Report details mineralization at the Lookout Mountain Project. In addition, significant exploration potential is noted.
The Technical Report was modeled and estimated by MDA by statistical evaluation of available drill data utilizing geologic interpretations provided by Timberline. The geologic interpretations were used to constrain gold mineral domains on vertical cross sections spaced at 50- to 100-foot intervals across the extents of the Lookout Mountain mineralization. The cross sections were rectified to the mineral-domain interpretations on level plans spaced at 10-foot intervals, analyzing the modeled mineralization geostatistically to aid in the establishment of estimation parameters, and interpolating grades into a three-dimensional block model.
The final drill results of the 2011 exploration program were successfully incorporated into the NI 43-101 compliant “Updated Technical Report on the Lookout Mountain Project, Eureka County, Nevada, USA” issued by MDA on May 31, 2012 (“2012 Technical Report”). As a result of the 2011 exploration program, we successfully extended the mineralized zone at Lookout Mountain 600 feet to the south of the existing mineral deposit, and expanded mineralization along the west margin of the deposit. Results from Lookout Mountain, and from the South Adit area, significantly increased the reported mineralization at the Lookout Mountain Project.
Regional exploration was also advanced in the district during 2012. Complementing previous work, geologic mapping and ground magnetic surveys undertaken during the year complete district-wide coverage. Key successes of the 2012 drill program include demonstration of strong continuity in mineralization at the Lookout Mountain Project, and initial identification of high-grade gold mineralization down-dip of the current mineralization.
During the year ended September 30, 2013, we completed our exploration program initiated in 2012 at Lookout Mountain. This program focused on providing data for on-going metallurgical studies directed at characterization of gold mineralization recovery, and for initial assessment of pit-slope stabilities. Permitting-related activities were advanced through completion of quarterly water monitoring, and installation of three monitoring wells. Scoping-level investigations for location of site facilities (heap leach pads, mine rock storage, access roads) have also been prepared in advance of a potential Preliminary Economic Assessment (“PEA”) of the project. Assay results from drilling during the 2012 exploration program were incorporated into an NI 43-101 compliant “Updated Technical Report on the Lookout Mountain Project, Eureka County, Nevada, USA” issued by MDA on April 11, 2013 (“2013 Technical Report”).
Exploration activities at Eureka were curtailed during 2014, as a result of the limited availability of capital. To reduce ongoing expenses, we consolidated our Elko field office into our Eureka facility and limited the exploration program. The limited program did include geochemical waste rock environmental characterization, independent metallurgical testing, and continued monitoring of water quality, and definition of hydrologic work plans. In addition, geologic mapping, and stratigraphic and structural analyses have been completed along with rock and soil sampling in selected detailed areas. This activity has resulted in identification of new targets characterized by anomalous mineralogy and trace element geochemistry as indicators of possible gold mineralization.
In fiscal 2015, the company completed a ten-hole drill program on priority targets. Four holes were drilled at Lookout Mountain to confirm a previously recognized partial drill intercept of higher grade gold mineralization at depth. This higher grade mineralization is associated with the previously defined zone along Ratto Ridge of near-surface, low-grade gold mineralization. The f
our drill holes were offset approximately 140 feet from a single previous partial intercept. The geology in the holes is stratigraphically well correlated with gold intercepts occurring in mineralized collapse breccias similar to previous gold intercepts in the pyritic Dunderberg Shale-Hamburg Dolomite contact zone. The four intercepts are thought by Timberline geologists to be related to a higher grade feeder system as recognized in many Carlin-type systems.
Highlights of 2015 Lookout Mountain drilling include 65
feet @ 0.09 ounces of gold per ton (opt) (19.8 meters (m) @ 3.22 grams of gold per
tonne (g/t)), including 25 feet @ 0.14 opt (7.6 m @ 4.93 g/t), in BHSE-171. Three of four recently drilled Lookout holes intercepted >3 g/t gold over lengths of approximately 4.5 to 7.6 meters (15 to 25 feet).
At Windfall, six holes were drilled in 2015 to test on-strike, offset, and down-dip extensions of gold mineralization along approximately 3,000 feet of strike length within which historic mining occurred. All six drill holes encountered gold mineralization. Highlights include
80 feet @ 0.09 opt of gold (24.4 m @ 3.04 g/t gold), including 20 feet @ 0.26 opt (6.1 m @ 8.79 g/t) in hole number BHWF-40 at Windfall. Four of six near surface Windfall drill holes intercepted >1 g/t gold over lengths of 12.2 to 27.4 meters (40 to 90 feet).
There are no proven and probable reserves as defined under Guide 7 at the Eureka property, and our activities there remain exploratory in nature.
During the difficult commodities environment of fiscal year 2016, we did not complete any drilling or field exploration activities on the Eureka Project. However, we secured 19 historic mine-related workings including shafts, adits, and trenches to ensure public safety in compliance with State of Nevada Abandoned Mine Lands regulations. In addition, we initiated efforts, including field reviews, to reconcile BLM and Nevada state bond calculations with actual disturbed acreage. This process was subsequently completed in early fiscal year 2017.
If the commodities environment improves in fiscal year 2017, work plans include limited drilling to test existing high priority targets. We also expect to complete geologic modeling at Windfall to assess the grade and continuity of known gold mineralization. Our total exploration budget for the project for fiscal year 2017 is approximately $500,000.
The expenditures for this work program are discretionary and may be scaled back or not conducted at all depending upon the availability of capital. For further details on the exploration budget for the Eureka Property, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation - Mineral Exploration - Exploration Plans and Budget.”
Cautionary Note to U.S. Investors: The 2011 - 2013 Technical Reports use the terms "mineral resource", "measured mineral resource", "indicated mineral resource", and "inferred mineral resource." We advise investors that these terms are defined in and required to be disclosed by NI 43-101; however, these terms are not defined terms under Guide 7 and are normally not permitted to be used in reports and registration statements filed with the SEC. See “Cautionary Note to U.S. Investors Regarding Mineral Reserve and Resource Estimates,” above.
ICBM Project
The ICBM Joint Venture Project (Timberline/Barrick) is located in the Battle Mountain Mining District, Lander County, Nevada. The land position consists of 526 hectares (1,300 acres) on BLM-administered lands. The drilling to date has demonstrated that mineralization is present and is localized along the contacts of Cambrian sediments and altered granodiorite. This style of mineralization is being mined at Newmont’s Fortitude/Phoenix complex to the south. We acted as operator of the joint venture through November 2013 maintaining a 72% interest in the project, with Barrick Gold holding the remaining interest.
In December of 2013, ICBM Joint Venture and Americas Gold Exploration, Inc. (“AGE”) entered into an agreement to continue exploration at the project. Under the terms of the agreement, AGE may earn up to 76.6% ownership in the property by making certain exploration expenditures over a four-year period. AGE also assumed the role as operator of the joint venture.
As of September 30, 2016, we do not consider the ICBM prospect to be a material property. No material future expenditures are planned on the prospect at this time.
Seven Troughs District
During the year ended September 30, 2012, we announced the acquisition from CIT Microprobe Holdings, LLC (California Institute of Technology) (“CIT”) of 3,900 acres of patented and unpatented mining claims comprising essentially the entire Seven Troughs gold mining district near Lovelock, Nevada. Terms of the purchase agreement included a cash payment of $50,000 and a 2-percent NSR production royalty reserved to CIT. We have the option to purchase one-half of the NSR production royalty for $1 million.
Seven Troughs is an epithermal gold district recognized as yielding some of the highest gold production grades in Nevada history through small-scale operations in the early 20th century. We believe the district has the potential to host a large precious metals system similar to the high-grade gold and silver veins of Japan's world-renowned Hishikari epithermal gold mine.
We are under no obligation to make exploration expenditures at Seven Troughs. Since acquiring the property, we have initiated the compilation of historic mine workings data and completed limited geologic mapping, geochemical sampling, and spectrophotometry survey within the district. During 2014, the historic mine workings have been compiled into an electronic 3-D model. Exploration activity during 2015 was restricted to target development based on geologic data collected and compiled in 2014. Drilling is on hold until adequate available capital exists to fund a program.
As of September 30, 2016, we do not consider Seven Troughs to be a material property, and no material expenditures are planned at this time.
Wolfpack Gold Properties
With the acquisition of Wolfpack Gold, we acquired nine mineral properties in Nevada and one in California. We conducted a due diligence review on each property, including organization of the historic data and review of exploration work completed to-date. Claims on five of the properties were subsequently dropped or returned to the underlying owners. One property remains under lease to a third party who pays all holding costs, and ownership on three other properties has been transferred to other parties with royalty rights retained by Timberline. Claims on one property have been retained as they are contiguous with our Eureka project.
As of September 30, 2016, we do not consider any of the Wolfpack Properties to be a material property, and no material expenditures are planned at this time.
Montana Gold Property
Butte Highlands Gold Project
In July 2007, we acquired the Butte Highlands Gold Project, located approximately 15 miles south of Butte, Montana in Silver Bow County. The property covers 1,142 acres consisting of a combination of patented and unpatented mining claims. The project is within a favorable geologic domain that has hosted several multi-million ounce gold deposits. A feasibility study was not completed on the project, and there are no proven and probable reserves at the property under Guide 7. Our activities there were exploratory in nature.
On January 29, 2016, we executed a Member Interest Purchase Agreement (the “Purchase Agreement”) with New Jersey Mining Company (“NJMC”) pursuant to which we sold all of our 50% interest in the Butte Highlands, JV, LLC (the “JV Interest”). Pursuant to the Purchase Agreement, the parties agreed that consideration for the JV Interest consisted of (i) two hundred and twenty-five thousand dollars ($225,000) and (ii) three million (3,000,000) restricted shares of New Jersey (“New Jersey Shares”). $50,000 of the cash consideration (the “Down Payment”) was paid on January 25, 2016 with the remaining $175,000 of the cash consideration and the New Jersey Shares paid at closing, which occurred on January 29, 2016. The total value of the consideration at the closing date was $447,900.
Overview of Regulatory, Economic and Environmental Issues
Hard rock mining and drilling in the United States is a closely regulated industrial activity. Mining and drilling operations are subject to review and approval by a wide variety of agencies at the federal, state, and local level. Each level of government requires applications for permits to conduct operations. The approval process always involves consideration of many issues including but not limited to air pollution, water use and discharge, noise issues, and wildlife impacts. Mining operations involve preparation of environmental impact studies that examine the probable effect of the proposed site development. Federal agencies that may be involved include: The USFS, BLM, EPA, NIOSH, MSHA, and FWS. Individual states also have various environmental regulatory bodies, such as Departments of Ecology and Departments of Environmental Quality. Local authorities, usually counties, also have control over mining activity.
Gold, silver, and copper are mined in a wide variety of ways, both in open pit and underground mines. Open-pit mines require the gold deposit to be relatively close to the surface. These deposits tend to be low grade (such as 0.01-0.03 ounces per ton gold) and are mined using large, costly earth moving equipment, usually at very high tonnages per day.
Open-pit operations for gold often involve heap leaching as a metallurgical method to remove the gold. Heap leaching involves stacking the ore on pads which are lined with an impenetrable surface, then sprinkling the gold with a weak cyanide solution to extract the gold. The gold impregnated solution is collected and the gold recovered through further processing.
Underground metal mines generally involve higher-grade ore bodies. Less tonnage is mined underground, and generally the higher-grade ore is processed in a mill or other refining facility. This process results in the accumulation of waste by-products from the processing of the ground ore. Mills require associated tailings ponds to capture waste by-products and treat water used in the milling process.
Capital costs for mine, mill, and tailings pond construction can, depending upon the size of the operation, run into the hundreds of millions of dollars. These costs are factored into the profitability of a mining operation. Metal mining is sensitive to both cost considerations and to the value of the metal produced. Metals prices are set on a world-wide market and are not controlled by the operators of the mine. Changes in currency values or exchange rates can also impact metals prices. Changes in metals prices or operating costs can have a huge impact on the economic viability of a mining operation.
Environmental protection and remediation is an increasingly important part of mineral economics. In some cases, particularly in Montana, with its concern for its grizzly bear population, mining companies have been required to acquire and donate additional land to serve as a substitute habitat for this threatened species.
Estimated future costs of reclamation or restoration of mined land are based principally on legal and regulatory requirements. Reclamation of affected areas after mining operations may cost millions of dollars. Often governmental permitting agencies are requiring multi-million dollar bonds from mining companies prior to granting permits, to insure that reclamation takes place. All environmental mitigation tends to decrease profitability of the mining operation, but these expenses are recognized as a cost of doing business by modern mining and exploration companies.
Mining and exploration activities are subject to various laws and regulations governing the protection of the environment. These laws and regulations are continually changing and are generally becoming more restrictive. We conduct our operations so as to protect the public health and environment and believe our operations are in compliance with applicable laws and regulations in all material respects. We have made, and expect to make in the future, expenditures to comply with such laws and regulations, but cannot predict the full amount of such future expenditures.
Every mining activity has an environmental impact. In order for a proposed mining project to be granted the required governmental permits, mining companies are required to present proposed plans for mitigating this impact. In the United States, where our properties are located, no mine can operate without obtaining a number of permits. These permits address the social, economic, and environmental impacts of the operation and include numerous opportunities for public involvement and comment.
We intend to focus on exploration and discovery of mineral resources. If we are successful, the ore bodies discovered will be attractive to production companies, or we will potentially bring the ore bodies to production ourselves. The mining industry, like agriculture, is a fundamental component of modern industrial society, and minerals of all sorts are needed to maintain our way of life. If we are successful in finding an economic ore body, be it gold, silver or copper, sufficient value is expected to be created to reward our shareholders and allow for all production and reclamation expenses to be paid ourselves or by the actual producer to whom we convey, assign, or joint venture the project.
ITEM 3.