Item 2. Properties in this report for further information about these facilities.
Cattle delivered to NBP's facilities are generally processed into beef products within 36 hours after arrival. Approximately 65% of the cattle processed in any week are committed to sale before the cattle are delivered to NBP's facilities. NBP processed in excess of three million fed cattle at its facilities in FYE 2005. NBP's facilities utilize modern, highly automated equipment to process and package beef products. NBP strives to maintain and enhance its facilities and has invested more than $260 million since 1995 to expand capacity and increase efficiency at its facilities. The design of NBP's facilities emphasizes worker safety to ensure compliance with all regulations and to reduce worker injury and turnover. Additionally, NBP has placed a substantial amount of ammonia piping on the roof versus in the production areas, not in response to regulatory requirements, but in the interest of worker safety. These and other changes designed the workplace to better fit NBP's employees. All expansions are reviewed by internal personnel, including NBP's Corporate Environmental Director, Vice President of Safety, Vice President of Technical Services, Vice President of Engineering and Corporate Project Engineer, for regulatory compliance prior to construction. NBP's facilities are also designed to reduce waste products and emissions and dispose of waste in accordance with applicable environmental standards.
NBP distributes beef products domestically directly from its processing facilities and case-ready facilities. NBP utilizes its subsidiary National Carriers and third party carriers to deliver products to its customers.
Other
Products, Sales and Marketing
NBP also sells beef products through its portion control business, Kansas City Steak Company, in which NBP has an approximate 75% interest. Kansas City Steak Company provides trimmed and cut individual portions both directly to consumers on a branded basis through television outlets (such as the QVC Channel) and direct mail catalogs; and directly to restaurants (such as Outback Steakhouse) and the food service industry on an unbranded basis. On March 28, 2003, FNB acquired National Carriers, a refrigerated and livestock contract carrier service with terminals in Liberal, Kansas; Dallas, Texas; and Denison, Iowa. National Carriers currently operates approximately 1,200 refrigerated and livestock units. NBP contracts a significant portion of its freight services from National Carriers. For further information regarding this relationship, see Note 8. Related Party Transactions to NBP's consolidated financial statements in Item 8.
Raw Materials and Procurement
NBP's primary raw material for its portion control processing facility is boxed beef. Approximately 30% of its boxed beef purchases are made through contractual agreements predetermined by the customer for whom the product is produced. These contractual agreements are typically one year in duration and stipulate from whom the boxed beef can be purchased. The balance of NBP's raw material is purchased at its discretion on the open market from primary and secondary suppliers with similar quality and yield grade specifications as required under NBP's contracts. NBP periodically conducts comprehensive cutting tests of potential suppliers' boxed beef to determine composition and quality.
Processing Facilities and Operations
NBP has a portion control facility in Kansas City, Kansas, which processes trimmed and cut individual portions for sale through Kansas City Steak Company. See Item 2. Properties in this report for further information about this facility. National Carriers has offices located in Liberal, Kansas and Dodge City, Kansas, both of which are within close proximity to NBP's beef processing facilities in those locations, enabling NBP to efficiently transport product by reducing transportation costs. National Carriers also has an office in Denison, Iowa, and administrative offices located in Kansas City, Missouri.
Food Safety
NBP remains committed in the area of food safety by continuing to develop activated Lactoferrin through aLF Ventures, LLC, a joint venture NBP founded with DMV USA LP, a subsidiary of Campina Melkunie BV, the Netherlands' largest dairy cooperative. aLF is an activated form of Lactoferrin, a naturally occurring milk protein that has been shown to prevent harmful bacteria from attaching and growing on the surface of beef. In tests conducted at California Polytechnic State University, it was shown that aLF was effective in providing a high level of protection on fresh beef products from more than thirty different strains of harmful bacteria, including E. coli 0157:H7, Salmonella, Campylobacter, radiation-resistant strains and other pathogens. aLF Ventures, LLC has an exclusive worldwide license to use aLF for food safety purposes on meat, dairy, produce and animal feed products. aLF Ventures, LLC may not be able to commercially develop aLF into a product capable of achieving future revenues. NBP has an approximately 24% interest in aLF Ventures, LLC.
NBP's food safety efforts incorporate a comprehensive network of leading technology that minimizes the risks involved in beef processing. NBP's proprietary BioLogic® Food Safety System promotes the production of clean, fresh, safe, high-quality beef products. The BioLogic® Food Safety System is an integrated company philosophy that helps to establish new principles in food safety. The BioLogic® Food Safety System divides NBP's production facilities into five zones based on the potential for microbial contamination during the processing procedures that take place in each zone. Within each of the five zones, BioLogic® employs its "Test, Track and Treat" approach, which provides on-going testing in each of the zones, effective tracking of the results of such tests and continuous treatments throughout the facilities. The Test, Track and Treat approach includes preventative measures such as equipment sterilization, hygiene, temperature control and ongoing testing to greatly reduce contamination risks.
Intellectual Property
NBP holds a number of trademarks and domain names that it believes are material to its business and which are registered with the United States Patent and Trademark Office, including National Beef®, BioLogic®, Food Safety System, Black Canyon® Angus Beef, Naturewell™ Natural Beef and Leading the Way in Quality Beef™. NBP has also registered the National Beef® trade name and trademark in most of the foreign countries to which NBP sells products. Currently, NBP has a number of trademark registrations pending in the United States and in foreign countries. In addition to trademark protection, NBP attempts to protect its unregistered marks and other proprietary information under trade secret laws, employee and third-party non-disclosure agreements and other laws and methods of protection. All other trademarks or trade names referred to in this report are the property of their respective owners.
Competition
The beef processing industry is highly competitive. Competition exists both in the purchase of live cattle, as well as in the sale of beef products. NBP's products compete with a large number of other protein sources, including pork and poultry, but NBP's principal competition comes from other beef processors, including Tyson Foods, Inc., Cargill Inc., Swift & Company and Smithfield Foods, Inc. NBP management believes that the principal competitive factors in the beef processing industry are price, quality, food safety, customer service, product distribution, technological innovations and brand loyalty. Some of NBP's competitors have greater financial and other resources and enjoy wider recognition for their consumer branded products.
Employees
As of August 27, 2005, NBP had approximately 6,700 employees. Approximately 2,700 of NBP's employees at the Liberal, Kansas facility are represented by the United Food and Commercial Workers International Union under a collective bargaining agreement that expires on December 16, 2007. NBP considers its relations with its employees and the United Food and Commercial Workers International Union to be good.
Government Regulation and Environmental Matters
NBP's operations are subject to extensive regulation by the USDA, the Grain Inspection Packers and Stockyards Administration (GIPSA), the FDA, the EPA and other state, local and foreign authorities regarding the processing, packaging, storage, distribution, advertising and labeling of products, including food safety standards. Recently, the food safety practices and procedures in the beef processing industry have been subject to more intense scrutiny and oversight by the USDA. For example, on January 12, 2004, FSIS published an interim final rule on Specified Risk Materials (SRMs) and requirements for non-ambulatory disabled cattle due to the finding of BSE in routine testing. NBP immediately implemented the appropriate programs/policies to ensure compliance with FSIS rules. The rule dealt with three Interim Regulations that prohibit the slaughter of non-ambulatory disabled cattle, require the description and removal of SRMs that are considered to be inedible, and restrict the use of captive bolt stunners that deliberately inject compressed air into the cranium of an animal. NBP continues to work closely with the USDA and any regulatory agencies to ensure that its operations comply with all applicable food safety laws and regulations.
Wastewater, stormwater, and air discharges from NBP's operations are subject to extensive regulation by the EPA and other state and local authorities. NBP's Dodge City, Kansas and Liberal, Kansas facilities are subject to Title V permitting pursuant to the federal Clean Air Act and the Kansas Air Quality Act and implementing regulations. These permits were renewed on January 11, 2005, and will expire on January 25, 2010. NBP has an Environmental Compliance Management System (ECMS) in place for the Dodge City and Liberal plants that requires periodic and systematic self-auditing of compliance with all environmental requirements applicable to its operations. NBP has a Compliance Calendar System in place at its Hummels Wharf, Pennsylvania and Moultrie, Georgia facilities. Through the implementation of the ECMS system, NBP has identified violations of the Kansas Air Quality Law and implementing regulations at its Dodge City, Kansas and Liberal, Kansas facilities. NBP has reported these violations to the Kansas Department of Health and Environment (KDHE) and Region VII of the EPA. These violations have been resolved through settlement agreements with KDHE without material costs to the company. NBP's Dodge City, Kansas, Liberal, Kansas, Hummels Wharf, Pennsylvania and Moultrie, Georgia facilities are also subject to risk management planning pursuant to the federal Clean Air Act.
All of NBP's facilities are indirect dischargers of wastewater to publicly-owned treatment works and are subject to requirements under the federal Clean Water Act and corresponding state laws and agreements or permits with municipal or county authorities. Agreements are in effect for NBP's Dodge City, Kansas and Moultrie, Georgia facilities that will continue unless amended or revoked pursuant to their terms. NBP holds a permit for its Hummels Wharf, Pennsylvania facility from the Eastern Snyder County Regional Authority that automatically renews each year unless suspended or revoked pursuant to its terms. NBP does not expect material costs in the continuation of these agreements and permit. Stormwater discharges from NBP's Hummels Wharf, Pennsylvania and Moultrie, Georgia facilities are regulated pursuant to general permits issued by the states of Pennsylvania and Georgia, respectively. The Pennsylvania general permit expires on June 30, 2006. NBP's coverage under the Georgia general permit expired on May 31, 2003. NBP anticipates coverage under a new general permit, which was issued by the Georgia Environmental Protection Division, but has been stayed pending resolution of two appeals of the permit. NBP's coverage is anticipated to begin when the permit becomes final after resolution of the appeals. Thereafter, NBP expects these permits to be reissued by the respective states, and does not expect material costs in securing coverage under such permits. NBP's Dodge City, Kansas facility has filed a notice of intent to be subject to the Kansas General Permit for Stormwater Discharges when promulgated. Its Liberal, Kansas facility discharges stormwater to the publicly owned treatment works and thus has not been required to file a notice of intent. NBP's Dodge City, Kansas, Liberal, Kansas and Hummels Wharf, Pennsylvania facilities are supplied by water from NBP own wells. NBP holds public water supply permits for its Dodge City, Kansas and Liberal, Kansas facilities that do not have expiration dates.
NBP is also subject to laws that provide for strict, and in certain circumstances joint and several, liability for remediation of hazardous substances at contaminated sites that could include current or former facilities or other sites where wastes it generated have been disposed. NBP's Dodge City, Kansas and Liberal, Kansas facilities are small quantity or conditionally exempt generators of hazardous waste and are subject to recordkeeping, but not permit requirements. Solid waste generated at the Dodge City, Kansas and Liberal, Kansas facilities is disposed of or composted. A special waste permit is maintained by NBP's Dodge City, Kansas facility for the disposal of certain animal parts for which no market currently exists. The solid waste generated at its Hummels Wharf, Pennsylvania and Moultrie, Georgia facilities is disposed of in a municipal landfill if it is general plant trash and is taken to renderers if it is usable waste. NBP is not aware that it has any actual or potential liability under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (Superfund). NBP's plants are subject to community right to know reporting requirements under the Superfund Amendments and Reauthorization Act of 1986, which requires yearly filings as to the substances used on the plant premises.
NBP's domestic operations are subject to the Packers and Stockyards Act of 1921 (PSA). This statute generally prohibits meat packers in the livestock industry from engaging in certain anti-competitive practices. In addition, this statute requires NBP to make payment for its livestock purchases before the close of the next business day following the purchase and transfer of possession of the livestock it purchases, unless otherwise agreed to by its livestock suppliers. Any delay or attempt to delay payment will be deemed an unfair practice in violation of the statute. Under the PSA, NBP must hold its cash livestock purchases in trust for its livestock suppliers until they have received full payment of the cash purchase price. As of August 27, 2005, NBP has secured a bond of $25.7 million to satisfy these requirements. The bond is supported by a $12.5 million letter of credit.
From time to time NBP receives notices from regulatory authorities and others asserting that NBP is not in compliance with some laws and regulations. In some instances, litigation ensues. NBP is currently in receipt of one such notice from the Bureau of Immigration and Customs Enforcement (BICE) that it does not believe will result in material liability, if any. In May 2003, NBP received a request for information from BICE regarding the immigration status of its employees, and it has provided BICE with all requested information. No fines or penalties have been suggested or discussed.
We believe that we currently are in substantial compliance with all governmental laws and regulations and maintain all material permits (other than the stormwater permit for our Moultrie, Georgia facility discussed previously) and licenses relating to our operations. We are not aware of any violations of environmental or other laws and regulations that are likely to result in material penalties or pending changes in such laws or regulations that are likely to result in material cost increases.
RISK FACTORS
As described throughout this document, USPB's business involves the operation of an integrated cattle processing and beef marketing enterprise in which USPB's owners and associates supply cattle that are processed at the facilities owned and operated by USPB's majority-owned subsidiary, National Beef Packing Co, LLC. NBP markets and distributes the beef and beef products produced from both cattle supplied by USPB's owners and associates and other cattle purchased by NBP from other sources. The financial results of NBP's operations therefore are the single largest influence on USPB's financial performance. Consequently, those factors and risks that impact the performance of NBP's business have a direct and immediate influence on USPB's performance. However, there are also some risks that are unique to USPB. This Risk Factors section is divided into two parts, with one subsection focusing on the risk factors that influence the performance of NBP and another subsection discussing certain risk factors that are directly applicable to USPB itself.
USPB's business operations and the implementation of our business strategies are subject to significant risks inherent to our businesses, including, without limitation, the risks and uncertainties described below. The occurrence of any one or more of the risks or uncertainties described below could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.
Risk Factors Associated With Operations of NBP
Outbreaks of disease affecting livestock can adversely affect NBP's business.
An outbreak of disease affecting livestock, such as BSE or foot-and-mouth disease, could result in restrictions on sales of products to NBP's customers or purchases of livestock from its suppliers. Also, outbreaks of these diseases or concerns of such disease, whether or not resulting in regulatory action, can lead to cancellation of orders by customers and create adverse publicity that may have a material adverse effect on consumer demand and, as a result, on NBP's results of operations. Furthermore, an outbreak of disease could lead to widespread destruction of cattle, which could have a negative impact on NBP.
If NBP's products become contaminated, it may be subject to product liability claims and product recalls that would adversely affect its business.
NBP may be subject to significant liability if the consumption of any of its products causes injury, illness or death and it may in the future recall products in the event of contamination or damage. Contamination of products also may create adverse publicity that could negatively affect NBP's business. NBP may encounter the same risks of contamination or negative publicity if a third party tampers with its products. The occurrence of any of these risks may increase costs and decrease demand for its products. Organisms producing food borne illnesses are generally found in the environment and there is a risk that as a result of food processing they could be present in NBP's products. For example, E. coli 0157:H7 is one of many food borne bacteria commonly associated with beef products. Once contaminated products have been shipped for distribution and consumption, illness or death may result if the pathogens are present, increase due to handling or temperatures, and are not otherwise eliminated at the further processing, food service or consumer level.
If the products of NBP's competitors become contaminated, the beef industry may be subject to adverse publicity, which could negatively affect NBP's business.
If the products of NBP's competitors, in the United States or elsewhere, become contaminated, the beef industry may face adverse publicity. Any such adverse publicity could result in consumers lowering their demand for NBP's beef products, which may negatively affect its business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.
NBP's substantial debt could adversely affect its business.
NBP has a significant amount of debt. As of August 27, 2005 NBP had $308.8 million of long-term debt, none of which was classified as a current liability. As of August 27, 2005, NBP's amended and restated credit facility consisted of a $120.0 million term loan, of which $120.0 million was outstanding, and a $140.0 million revolving line of credit loan, which had outstanding borrowings of $15.0 million, outstanding letters of credit of $44.0 million and available borrowings of $74.1 million based on the most restrictive financial covenant calculations. In addition to outstanding borrowings on the amended and restated credit facility, NBP had outstanding borrowings under industrial revenue bonds of $13.8 million, senior notes of $160.0 million, and operating lease commitments of $35.0 million as of August 27, 2005. See Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.
NBP's substantial debt could:
make it difficult for NBP to satisfy its obligations, including making interest payments 	on the exchange notes and on other debt obligations;
	limit NBP's ability to obtain additional financing to operate its business;
	require NBP to dedicate a substantial portion of its cash flow to payments 	on its debt, reducing its ability to use cash flow to fund working capital, 	capital expenditures and other general operational requirements;
	limit NBP's flexibility to plan for and react to changes in its business and 	the beef processing industry;
	place NBP at a competitive disadvantage relative to some competitors that 	have less debt than NBP; and
	increase NBP's vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry 	conditions, including changes in interest rates, changes in cattle prices or a downturn in its business or the economy.
The occurrence of any one of these events could have a material adverse effect on NBP's business, financial condition and results of operations.
Despite NBP's current levels of debt, it may still incur significantly more debt, which could intensify the risks described above.
NBP may incur significant additional debt in the future. The terms of the indenture governing NBP's senior notes permit it to incur additional debt in the future and its amended credit facility permits additional borrowings under certain circumstances. As of August 27, 2005, NBP had approximately $74.1 million of availability under the most restrictive financial covenant calculations in its amended and restated credit facility. NBP may borrow funds to fund its capital expenditures and working capital needs. NBP also may incur additional debt to finance future acquisitions.
Restrictive covenants under NBP's amended and restated credit facility and the indenture will limit its ability to operate its business.
NBP's amended and restated credit facility and the indenture governing NBP's senior notes, contain, among other things, restrictive covenants that will limit NBP's and its subsidiaries' ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to engage in other business activities. The indenture and NBP's amended and restated credit facility restrict, among other things, NBP's ability and the ability of its subsidiaries to:
incur additional indebtedness or issue guarantees;
create liens on NBP's assets;
make distributions on or redeem equity interests;
make investments or acquisitions;
make restricted payments;
create or permit restrictions on the ability of NBP's restricted subsidiaries to pay dividends or make other distributions to NBP;
issue or distribute capital stock of its subsidiaries;
enter into transactions with affiliates;
enter into sale and leaseback transactions;
engage in unrelated business activities;
transfer or sell assets; and
engage in mergers, consolidations or sell substantially all of NBP's assets.
In addition, NBP's amended and restated credit facility requires NBP to meet specified financial ratios and tests. These ratios and tests could have an adverse effect on NBP's business by limiting its ability to take advantage of financing, merger and acquisition or other corporate opportunities and to fund its operations. Events beyond NBP's control, including changes in general business and economic conditions, may affect its ability to meet those financial ratios and tests. Any future debt could also contain financial and other covenants more restrictive than those imposed under the indenture governing the senior notes or NBP's amended and restated credit facility.
NBP may not meet those ratios and tests and its lenders may not waive any failure to meet those ratios and tests. A breach of any of those covenants or failure to maintain such ratios would result in a default under NBP's amended and restated credit facility and any resulting acceleration under NBP's amended and restated credit facility may result in a default under the indenture governing the senior notes. If an event of default under NBP's amended and restated credit facility occurs, the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding thereunder, together with accrued interest, to be immediately due and payable which would result in an event of default under the senior notes. NBP's assets or cash flow may not be sufficient to repay in full its outstanding debt, including the senior notes.
NBP may be unable to generate sufficient cash flow to service its debt, which could adversely affect its financial condition and results of operations.
To service its debt, NBP will require a significant amount of cash. If its cash flow and capital resources are insufficient to fund its debt service obligations, NBP may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell material assets or operations, obtain additional capital or restructure debt. NBP's ability to generate cash, make scheduled payments or to refinance obligations depends on its successful financial and operating performance. NBP's financial and operating performance, cash flow and capital resources depend upon prevailing economic conditions and certain financial, business and other factors, many of which are beyond NBP's control. These factors include among others:
economic, industry and competitive conditions;
operating difficulties, increased operating costs or pricing pressures NBP may experience; and
delays in implementing any strategic projects.
NBP's margins may be negatively impacted by fluctuating raw material costs and selling prices and other factors that are outside of its control.
NBP's margins are dependent on the price at which its beef products can be sold and the price it pays for its raw materials, among other factors. These prices can vary significantly over a relatively short period of time as a result of a number of factors, including the relative supply and demand for live cattle and beef products, as well as the market for other protein products, such as pork and poultry. For example, beginning in March 2002, a month-long Russian trade embargo on chicken imported from the United States had the effect of increasing chicken supplies in the United States, which put downward pressure on demand and prices for red meat products. In addition, closure of international markets to U.S. beef product exports as a result of the December 23, 2003 BSE discovery negatively affected U.S. beef product margins, as certain by-products, classified as SRMs, have been banned from use in feedstocks and the human food chain. Some of these products previously enjoyed a market in foreign countries. Smaller export markets have reopened their borders to U.S. beef; however, with the June 2005 announcement by the USDA of a second confirmed case of BSE in the U.S. there is further uncertainty as to whether or when additional markets may reopen, and whether or when existing open markets may close.
The supply and market price of the livestock that constitute NBP's principal raw material and represent the substantial majority of its cost of goods sold are dependent upon a variety of factors over which it has little or no control, including fluctuations in the size of herds maintained by producers, the relative cost of feed, weather and livestock diseases. Additionally, the closure of the U.S. border to Canadian livestock from May 2003 until July 2005 constrained the supply of cattle in the U.S. which resulted in higher overall fed cattle prices in the U.S. compared to Canada, and the closure prompted Canada to increase its processing capabilities, which may also have an adverse impact on our future margins.
Severe price swings in raw materials, and the resulting impact on the prices NBP charges for its products, have at times had, and may in the future have, a material adverse effect on its financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. If NBP experiences increased costs, it may not be able to pass them along to its customers.
NBP generally does not have long-term contracts with its customers, and, as a result, the prices at which it sells its beef are subject to market forces.
Other than existing arrangements with APC, Inc. and the United States military, NBP generally does not have long-term sales arrangements with customers and, as a result, the prices at which it sells products to them are determined in large part by market forces. NBP's customers, including those with which it has long-term contracts, place orders for products on an as-needed basis and, as a result, their order levels have varied from period to period in the past and may vary significantly in the future. The loss of one or more of its key customers, a significant decline in the number of orders from one or more of its key customers or a significant decrease in beef product prices for a sustained period of time could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition or results of operations.
Wal-Mart's failure to continue purchasing from NBP could have a material adverse effect on NBP's sales.
Sales to Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., or Wal-Mart, which does not cover NBP's sales to Wal-Mart's affiliate Sam's Club, represented approximately 5% of NBP's total net sales in FYE 2005. NBP's agreement with Wal-Mart expired on January 31, 2004 and NBP has not entered into a new agreement. If Wal-Mart does not continue to purchase from NBP, it could have a material adverse effect on NBP's sales.
NBP is subject to extensive governmental regulation and any noncompliance with, or changes in applicable requirements, could adversely affect NBP's business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.
NBP's operations are subject to extensive regulation and oversight by the USDA, the GIPSA, the FDA, and other state, local and foreign authorities regarding the processing, packaging, storage, distribution, advertising and labeling of its products, including food safety standards. Recently, the food safety practices and procedures in the meat processing industry have been subject to more intense scrutiny and oversight by the USDA. NBP is also subject to a variety of environmental laws and regulations, including those relating to wastewater and stormwater discharges, air emissions, waste handling and disposal, and remediation of soil and groundwater contamination that are administered by the EPA, state, local and other authorities. Failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could subject NBP to administrative penalties and injunctive relief, civil remedies, including fines, injunctions, recalls of NBP's products or seizures of its properties, as well as potential criminal sanctions or personal injury or other damage claims. These remedies, changes in the applicable laws and regulations or discovery of currently unknown conditions could increase NBP's costs and limit its business operations.
Compliance with environmental regulations may result in significant costs and failure to comply with environmental regulations may result in civil as well as criminal penalties, liability for damages and negative publicity.
NBP's operations are subject to extensive and increasingly stringent regulations pertaining to the discharge of materials into the environment and the handling and disposition of wastes. Failure to comply with these regulations can have serious consequences for NBP, including criminal as well as civil and administrative penalties and negative publicity. NBP has incurred, and will continue to incur, significant capital and operating expenditures to avoid violations of these laws and regulations. Additional environmental requirements imposed in the future could require currently unanticipated investigations, assessments or expenditures, and may require NBP to incur significant additional costs. Because the nature of these potential future charges is unknown, NBP management is not able to estimate the magnitude of any future costs and NBP has not accrued any reserve for any potential future costs.
Some of NBP's facilities have been in operation for many years. During that time, NBP and previous owners of these facilities have generated and disposed of wastes that are or may be considered hazardous or may have polluted the soil or groundwater at these facilities, including adjacent properties. The discovery of previously unknown contamination of property underlying or in the vicinity of NBP's present or former properties or manufacturing facilities and/or waste disposal sites could require it to incur material unforeseen expenses. Occurrences of any of these events may have a material adverse effect on NBP's business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.
NBP's international operations expose it to political and economic risks in foreign countries, as well as to risks related to currency fluctuations.
In FYE 2005, exports, primarily to China, Mexico, South Korea, Hong Kong, and Thailand accounted for approximately 7% of NBP's total net sales. NBP's international activities expose it to risks not faced by companies that limit themselves to the domestic market. One significant risk is that the international operations may be affected by tariffs, other trade protection or food safety measures and import or export licensing requirements.
For example, on December 23, 2003, it was announced by the USDA that a single Holstein dairy cow was discovered in the state of Washington to have tested positive for BSE. The origin of the animal was subsequently traced to a farm in Canada. Shortly after the announcement, several countries representing a substantial share of NBP's export business closed their borders to the importation of edible beef products from the United States. Responding to the loss of export markets, live cattle prices in the United States declined by approximately 18% within 3 days. During the second quarter of FYE 2004, NBP recorded charges to earnings totaling approximately $18.8 million due to the market impacts of the closure of international borders as a result of the BSE discovery in late December. While exports of some beef products commenced once again to Mexico in April 2004, NBP cannot anticipate the duration of other continuing beef import bans or whether additional countries may impose similar restrictions. In June 2005, the USDA announced a second confirmed case of BSE in the U.S., furthering uncertainty as to whether or when additional markets may reopen, and whether or when existing markets may close. Thus far, the effect of resumed export of beef products to limited, smaller export markets has been marginal on the U.S. beef industry. Thus far, the effect of resumed export of beef products to Mexico has been marginal on the United States beef industry.
Other risks associated with NBP's international activities include:
changes in foreign currency exchange rates and hyperinflation or deflation in the foreign countries in which NBP operates;
exchange controls;
changes in a specific country's or region's political or economic conditions, particularly in emerging markets;
potentially negative consequences from changes in regulatory requirements; and
international conflict, including terrorist acts, which could significantly impact NBP's financial condition and results of operations.
The occurrence of any of these events could increase NBP's costs, lower demand for its products or limit its operations, which could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects.
Failure to successfully implement its business strategy may impede NBP's plans to increase revenues, margins and cash flow.
NBP's revenues, margins and cash flows will not increase as planned if it fails to implement the key elements of its strategy, and its ability to successfully implement this strategy is dependent at least in part on factors beyond NBP's control. For example, the willingness of consumers to purchase value-added products depends in part on economic conditions. In periods of economic uncertainty, consumers tend to purchase more private label or less-expensive products. Thus, if NBP encounters periods of economic uncertainty, the sales volume for its value-added products could suffer. Also, NBP may not be successful in identifying favorable international expansion opportunities.
Changes in consumer preferences could adversely affect NBP's business.
The food industry in general is subject to changing consumer trends, demands and preferences. NBP's products compete with other protein sources, such as pork and poultry, and other foods. Trends within the food industry change often and failure to anticipate, identify or react to changes in these trends could lead to, among other things, reduced demand and price reductions for NBP's products, and could have a material adverse effect on NBP's business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, NBP does not have any other material lines of business or other sources of revenue to rely upon if it is unable to efficiently process and sell beef products or if the market for beef declines. This lack of diversification means that NBP may not be able to adapt to changing market conditions or withstand any significant decline in the beef industry.
The beef processing industry is highly competitive and NBP's customers may not continue to purchase its products.
The beef processing industry is highly competitive. Competition exists both in the purchase of live cattle and in the sale of beef products. In addition, NBP's products compete with a number of other protein sources, including pork and poultry.
NBP's principal competition arises from other beef processors, including Tyson Foods, Inc., Cargill Incorporated, Swift & Company and Smithfield Foods, Inc. The principal competitive factors in the beef processing industry are price, quality, food safety, product distribution, technological innovations and brand loyalty. NBP's ability to be an effective competitor will depend on its ability to compete on the basis of these characteristics. Some of NBP's competitors have greater financial and other resources and enjoy wider recognition for their consumer branded products. NBP cannot assure you that it will be able to compete effectively with these companies and its ability to compete could be adversely affected by its significant debt levels.
The sales of beef products are subject to seasonal variations and, as a result, NBP's quarterly operating results may fluctuate.
The beef industry is characterized by prices that change based on seasonal consumption patterns. The highest period of demand for NBP's products is usually the summer barbecue season. As a result of these seasonal fluctuations, NBP's operating results may vary substantially between fiscal quarters.
NBP depends on the service of key individuals, the loss of which could materially harm its business.
NBP's success will depend, in part, on the efforts of its executive officers and other key employees. In addition, the market for qualified personnel is competitive and NBP's future success will depend on its ability to attract and retain these personnel. NBP does not have long-term employment agreements with some of its executive officers, and NBP does not maintain key-person insurance for some of its other officers, employees or members of its board of managers. NBP may not be able to negotiate the terms of renewals of any existing long-term employment agreements on terms favorable to NBP or at all. The loss of the services of any of NBP's key employees or the failure to attract and retain employees could have a material adverse effect on its business, results of operations and financial condition.
NBP's performance depends on favorable labor relations with its employees. Any deterioration of those relations or increase in labor costs could adversely affect NBP's business.
NBP has approximately 6,700 employees worldwide. Approximately 2,700 employees at its Liberal, Kansas facility are represented by the United Food and Commercial Workers International Union under a collective bargaining agreement that expires on December 16, 2007. A labor-related work stoppage by these unionized employees could limit NBP's ability to process and ship products or increase its costs, which could adversely affect its results of operations and financial condition. In addition, it is possible that any labor union efforts to organize employees at NBP's non-unionized facilities might be successful and that any labor-related work stoppages at these non-unionized facilities in the future could adversely affect its results of operations and financial condition. In general, any significant increase in labor costs, deterioration of employee relations, slowdowns or work stoppages at any of NBP's locations, whether due to union activities, employee turnover or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.
The consolidation of NBP's retail and foodservice customers may put pressures on its operating margins.
In recent years, the trend among NBP's retail and foodservice customers, such as supermarkets, warehouse clubs and foodservice distributors, has been towards consolidation. These consolidations, along with the entry of mass merchants into the grocery industry, have resulted in customers with increasing negotiating strength who tend to exert pressure on NBP with respect to pricing terms, product quality and new products. As NBP's customer base continues to consolidate, competition for the business of fewer customers is expected to intensify. If NBP does not negotiate favorable terms of sale with its customers and implement appropriate pricing to respond to these trends, or if it loses its existing large customers, NBP's profitability could decrease.
NBP may not be able to successfully integrate future acquisitions, which could result in it not achieving the expected benefits of the acquisition, the disruption of its business and an increase in its costs.
NBP continually explores opportunities to acquire related businesses, some of which could be material to it. NBP's ability to continue to grow may depend upon identifying and successfully acquiring attractive companies, effectively integrating these companies, achieving cost efficiencies and managing these businesses as part of NBP.
NBP may not be able to effectively integrate the acquired companies and successfully implement appropriate operational, financial and management systems and controls to achieve the benefits expected to result from these acquisitions. NBP's efforts to integrate these businesses could be affected by a number of factors beyond its control, such as regulatory developments, general economic conditions and increased competition. In addition, the process of integrating these businesses could cause the interruption of, or loss of momentum in, the activities of NBP's existing business. The diversion of management's attention and any delays or difficulties encountered in connection with the integration of these businesses could negatively impact NBP's business and results of operations. Further, the benefits that NBP anticipates from these acquisitions may not develop.
Risk Factors Associated with USPB
U.S. Premium Beef sells all of the cattle provided by its owners and associates to National Beef Packing Company, LLC and does not have arrangements for alternative markets for its owners and associates cattle.
USPB's sole customer for the cattle provided by USPB's owners and associates is National Beef Packing Company, LLC. Given USPB's ownership of a majority interest in NBP, USPB has not developed alternative customers for the cattle provided by USPB's owners and associates. If events were to occur which would prevent NBP from purchasing and processing the cattle supplied by USPB's owners and associates, USPB would need to exercise provisions in its agreements with both NBP and USPB's owners and associates that would permit USPB to reduce the number of cattle acquired from owners and associates and sold to NBP. While such provisions would mitigate harm to USPB, it is likely that the value of the Class A and Class B linked units and the associated delivery rights held by USPB's owners would be impaired.
The other members of National Beef Packing Company, LLC do not deliver cattle to NBP for processing, creating the possibility that the interests of those other members of NBP could conflict with the interests of U.S. Premium Beef and its members.
The other members of NBP do not deliver cattle to NBP for processing and marketing. As a result, conflicts of interest may arise between USPB and NBP relating to cattle purchases. If a dispute were to arise, the settlement of any such dispute may not be on terms as favorable to USPB as would be expected if all of the members of NBP were involved in the delivery of cattle to NBP for processing.
The restructuring of the cooperative was a taxable event for both the cooperative and its shareholders.
The restructuring of the cooperative to become an LLC was a taxable event for both the cooperative and its shareholders. The tax consequences to the cooperative depended on the value of its assets and apportionment of the value among specific assets, both of which involved risks described in the following risk factors.
The shareholders recognized gain or loss depending on when and how their shares in the cooperative were acquired. The amount depended on the value of the cooperative's assets, net of liabilities, and customary discounts allowed, both of which involved valuation risks described in the following risk factors. The taxable gain or loss that was recognized depended on whether the value of the Class A and Class B linked units received in the restructuring for those shares was greater or less than the tax basis in the common stock of the cooperative. If the shares were purchased in the cooperative's initial stock offerings, they had a gain on this portion of the restructuring. Values were subject to closing date adjustments and the possibility of future challenges by the Internal Revenue Service.
The intended tax treatment of the restructuring is subject to the possibility of future challenges by the Internal Revenue Service that could have adverse consequences for the LLC, as the successor to the cooperative's obligations, and to the unitholders.
The board of directors and senior management relied on an appraisal that is not binding on the Internal Revenue Service.
In evaluating the tax consequences of the restructuring, USPB has relied, in part, on the appraisal prepared by American Appraisal Associates. Their appraisal is not binding on the Internal Revenue Service. There is a risk that the Internal Revenue Service might determine that the Company or the cooperative's shareholders at the point of restructuring must recognize additional taxable income or gain for federal income tax purposes.
The Internal Revenue Service could also challenge other aspects of the restructuring that could materially adversely affect the LLC and its unitholders.
In addition to challenging the overall valuation of the cooperative and the LLC units received in the restructuring, the Internal Revenue Service might also challenge:
the cooperative's apportionment of values to specific assets and the treatment of the resulting gains or losses as capital gain or loss or ordinary income or loss;
the treatment of the restructuring as a constructive distribution of specific assets rather than as a distribution of interests in the LLC. There are anti-netting rules that may become operative if these challenges are mounted by the IRS. Specifically, the cooperative's capital losses cannot be offset against any income other than capital gains and, likewise, patronage losses cannot be offset against nonpatronage income or gain; and
the tax treatment of the cooperative's patronage notices that became obligations of the LLC is uncertain and the IRS could challenge the intended treatment of the patronage notices in calculating the shareholders' gain or loss on the restructuring.
If the Internal Revenue Service challenges the transaction on any of these grounds, it could materially adversely affect the LLC and subject the unitholders and the LLC, as successor to the cooperative's obligations, to additional tax liability.
The Internal Revenue Service could also challenge post-restructuring tax reporting positions to be taken by the LLC that could materially adversely affect the LLC unitholders.
USPB believes that the LLC will be treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. This means that the LLC will pay no federal or state income tax and unitholders will pay tax on their share of the LLC's net income. However, the LLC would become taxable as a corporation if it elects corporate tax status or if it is treated as a publicly traded partnership because of the manner in which units are transferred. The LLC's taxable income each year will depend in part on the depreciation, amortization and other cost recovery of the tax basis of its assets. The LLC's initial aggregate basis will be based on the fair market value of assets deemed to be received by the members in the restructuring. However, the method of apportioning basis to specific LLC assets is uncertain, and the IRS could challenge the apportionment of basis to specific assets so as to increase the allocation to longer lived assets or assets that cannot be depreciated or amortized. This generally would defer the timing of some of the LLC's depreciation, amortization or other cost recovery deductions. The patronage notices for which the LLC became obligated in the restructuring are expected to have a face value substantially in excess of their negative present value that was used in valuing the liquidating distribution deemed to be received by the shareholders. It is expected that capital loss deduction will be available to the LLC, and therefore to its unitholders, when cumulative payments made by the LLC to the holders of the patronage notices exceed their restructuring date negative present value. Because of the lack of controlling legal authority on this issue, the IRS could challenge the capital loss deduction. Also, limitations on the deductibility of capital losses could reduce or eliminate the benefit of the deduction.
Failure to achieve and maintain effective internal controls could have a material adverse effect on USPB's business, operating results and financial condition.
The Company is in the process of documenting and testing its internal control procedures in order to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which requires annual management assessments of the effectiveness of its internal controls over financial reporting and a report by its independent auditors addressing these assessments. This process is both costly and challenging. During the course of testing the Company may identify deficiencies which it may not be able to remediate in time to meet the deadline imposed by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act for compliance with the requirements of Section 404. In addition, if the Company fails to achieve and maintain the adequacy of its internal controls, as such standards are modified, supplemented or amended from time to time, it may not be able to ensure that it can conclude on an ongoing basis that it has effective internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Moreover, effective internal controls are necessary for the Company to produce reliable financial reports and are important to helping prevent financial fraud. If the Company cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, its business and operating results could be harmed, investors could lose confidence in its reported financial information, and its business, results of operation and financial condition could be adversely affected.
USPB depends on the service of key senior management personnel, the loss of which could materially harm its business.
USPB's success will depend, in part, on the efforts of its key senior management personnel. The market for qualified personnel is competitive and USPB's future success will depend on its ability to attract and retain these personnel. USPB does not have long-term employment agreements with most of its senior management. USPB may not be able to negotiate either new contracts or renewals of any existing long-term employment agreements on terms favorable to USPB or at all. The loss of the services of any of USPB's key senior management personnel or the failure to attract and retain highly skilled personnel in the future could have a material adverse effect on its business, results of operations and financial condition.
ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
USPB's corporate office is located at 12200 Ambassador Drive, Suite 501, Kansas City, Missouri, in proximity to the corporate offices of NBP. The Company leases its office space from HDP - Kansas City, LLC, with offices at c/o Kessinger/Hunter & Co., 2600 Grand Blvd., Suite 700, Kansas City, Missouri 64108.
NBP owns its Dodge City, Kansas, Liberal, Kansas and Hummels Wharf, Pennsylvania facilities. It leases its headquarters facility in Kansas City, Missouri, its Kansas City Steak Company processing facility in Kansas City, Kansas and its case-ready facility in Moultrie, Georgia. NBP also leases its offices in Chicago, Illinois, Salt Lake City, Utah, Denison, Iowa, Dallas, Texas, Tokyo, Japan and Seoul, South Korea. NBP's amended and restated credit facility is secured by a first priority lien on substantially all of its assets. The facility locations and approximate daily processing levels are shown in the table below:
Location
Daily Processing
Processing Facilities:
Liberal, Kansas
6,000 head
Dodge City, Kansas
5,700 head
Case-Ready Facilities:
Hummels Wharf, Pennsylvania 	
101,000 pounds
Moultrie, Georgia
153,000 pounds
Portion Control Facility:
Kansas City, Kansas
38,500 pounds
ITEM 3.