ITEM 2 DESCRIPTION OF OUR MINERAL PROPERTIES
Hill Copper-Zinc Project, Arizona
Location, Access and Property Overview
The Hill Copper-Zinc Project is located on the eastern flank of the southern Dragoon Mountains, approximately 80 miles southeast of Tucson, Arizona. Access to the Hill Copper-Zinc Project from Tucson is via the Dragoon turnoff on I-10 freeway, 12 miles east of Benson, then east to Arizona Highway 191, then south through Sunsites Village and the nearby town of Pearce. The property is in the Turquoise Mountain Quadrangle, Courtland-Gleeson Mining District, Cochise County, Arizona. We are not aware of any particular environmental, political or regulatory problems that would adversely affect mineral exploration of the property.
The topography in the project area varies from flat to rolling hills with an average elevation of 4,600 feet above sea level. Vegetation in the area is sparse and is typical of a desert climate.
General Overview of our Arizona Mining Claims at the Hill Copper-Zinc Property
At December 31, 2008, we were the registered owner of a 100% interest in 36 MAN unpatented mining claims as well as the Gold Coin #55 unpatented mining claim, which are part of the 101 unpatented mining claims and 64 patented claims located on the Hill Copper-Zinc Project, as described in the table below. The unpatented claims are staked on federal lands administered by the U.S. Bureau of Land Management. In addition to the 13 claims acquired with the purchase of ARI, staked on two earlier occasions and all contiguous with one another, we also staked an additional 17 MAN unpatented mining claims during late 2006 which were recorded at the Bureau of Land Management (BLM) on January 24, 2007 and January 25, 2007. An additional four claims were staked and
recorded with the BLM on August 17, 2007. These claims are contiguous with the 13 initial MAN claims. Two additional small claims were staked and recorded in late 2008 to cover minor gaps. The mining claims are in good standing with all regulatory authorities, and the mining claims are properly registered at Cochise County in Bisbee, Arizona, and with the U.S. Bureau of Land Management in Phoenix, Arizona. The current annual maintenance fees on unpatented mining claims are $125 per claim due on or before August 31 of each year.
The claims staked or otherwise acquired, exploration permits and leases obtained, and other property acquisitions are listed chronologically:
(1) The total acreages are approximate due to the complexity of overlapping claims as well as incomplete surveys for Gold Coin, and MAN Claims.
(2) The Rae Family and Newmont each hold 50% of one of the two claims.
(3) Part of the surface rights overlap the MAN Claims (not controlled)
(4) Bolsa acquired the Gold Coin #55 unpatented mining claims in April 2008 for $25,000 cash.
Upon the completion of our acquisition of ARI in 2006, we had 100% rights to mineral exploration and development on 13 unpatented mining claims in Arizona (the MAN claims), and an option to earn a 100% interest in the mineral exploration and development of 3 mining claims/concessions covering approximately 1,000 hectares, in Durango, Mexico. Completing ARI’s purchase agreement of May 16, 2006, we also acquired 30 patented claims referred to as the Courtland claims in Cochise County, Arizona on September 18, 2006 from Hope Mining and Milling Company (“Hope MMC”) through our wholly-owned subsidiary, Bolsa. We also staked additional unpatented mining claims during late 2006 around the MAN and Courtland claims. We now refer to the Arizona property as the Hill Copper-Zinc Project.
During 2007, the Company added to its property interests and database for the Hill Copper-Zinc Project. These acquisitions included completion of an option agreement with Newmont Mining Corporation to purchase two of its patented mineral claims; an extensive exploration file of the Turquoise Mountain Mining District, Cochise County, Arizona, where the Hill Copper-Zinc Project is located including the logs and assay results of 274 holes, drilled by ten different companies between the 1950s to the mid-1990s; completion of a mineral lease and option agreement with three individual owners of the 65 Gold Coin mineral claims and three Arizona State exploration permits; and, acquired and took possession of 76,780 feet of drill core from 95 holes from prior drilling campaigns
around the Hill Copper-Zinc Project in the Turquoise Mining District. We also entered into a conditional agreement with the Rae family that gives us the right to purchase 13 patented mining claims (covering approximately 213 acres) located on the north of the MAN area. As part of the transaction, the Company has also acquired the right to acquire approximately 744 acres of surface rights covering the entire MAN deposit in an area to the west of the deposit, with an additional 292 acres of surface and mineral rights to the east of the deposit. These acquisitions were concluded through Bolsa. Bolsa entered into an option agreement to acquire surface rights, being town sites on part of the Courtland area from Kay B. Graham. The Company, through Bolsa, also staked an additional five unpatented BLM lode mining claims to the north and northeast of the MAN deposit, and also applied for three Arizona State mineral exploration permits covering an estimated 1,320 acres. An independent review of its in-house estimate of the mineralized material in the MAN area was completed in October 2007.
Also, during 2007, Aurelio drilled a total of 44 holes on the Arizona properties, totalling 21,489 feet, to obtain core and reverse circulation samples. The total amount spent in 2007 for drilling was approximately $1,023,000. Aurelio at the Hill Copper-Zinc Project now owns or has options to acquire a total of 45 patented claims, 119 unpatented claims. We have six Arizona State mineral exploration permits, and control approximately 5,041 acres of land in Arizona. We intend to explore our Arizona properties and hope to develop and exploit any mineral deposits we discover. Alternatively, we may in the future joint venture or sell an interest in or otherwise assign the rights to develop or exploit the properties.
During 2007, Aurelio also prepared seven drill pads and approximately three kilometers of road at the Gavilanes Gold Project in Mexico, at a cost of $50,045. We intend to explore our Mexican property as funds permit with a view to exploiting any mineral deposits we discover, or selling or otherwise assigning the rights to do so.
During 2008, the Company maintained its previous acquired property interests and added to its property interests and database for the Hill Copper-Zinc Project as follows:
•
Gold assay results from 2007 drilling in the MAN Area indicated the presence of significant gold mineralization at the MAN Area.
•
Results from 2007 exploratory drilling between the MAN and South Courtland areas further extended the broad zone of zinc-silver mineralization running through the South Courtland area.
•
Aurelio received results from sequential leach test programs completed by two independent labs on mineralized material from the Company’s wholly-owned Hill Copper Leach Project. The results confirmed that secondary (chalcocite) copper mineralization at Hill is amenable to extraction of copper using industry-standard acid leach solution methods.
During 2008 the Company, through Bolsa, acquired 20 patented mining claims (the “View Sites claims”) in the Turquoise Mining District of Cochise County, Arizona. The View Sites patented claims are located to the west and southwest of the MAN Area that is part of the Company’s wholly-owned Hill Copper-Zinc Project. These claims encompass 360 acres and incorporate projected extensions of copper-zinc-silver-gold sulfide mineralization as well as of the leachable oxide copper and chalcocite copper deposits overlying the MAN Area sulfide zone. Bolsa Resources will acquire the View Sites claims with staged payments totaling $950,000 over thirty months. Closing occurred on October 1, 2008 following completion of a detailed survey of the 20 patented mining claims. There is no production royalty payable on production from this transaction, nor were any fees or commissions paid in relation to the transaction.
Aurelio, through Bolsa, also closed on the mineral lease and option agreement with the Rae family (the “Rae Acquisition”) on April 17, 2008. The Rae Acquisition includes 12.5 patented mining claims on 213 acres, primarily located on the northern portion of the MAN Area, plus an additional 292 acres of surface and mineral rights located to the east of the MAN Area. As part of the transaction, the Company has also acquired approximately 744 acres of surface rights covering most of the MAN Area and includes 412 acres to the west. The acquisition incorporates projected extensions along strike of copper-zinc-silver-gold sulfide mineralization. There is no production royalty payable on production from this transaction, nor were any fees or commissions paid in relation to the transaction.
Aurelio, through Bolsa, also located two additional MAN Claims, Nos. 37 and 38. During the course of reviewing the MAN Claims, it was discovered that MAN Claim No. 30 was staked over a previously undetected patented mining claim, so the MAN Claim No. 30 Claim was deemed invalid and withdrawn.
Two Courtland Town Site Lots (Numbers 1 and 3, Block 23) were acquired from the Hernandez Trust in June 2008.
Mining and Exploration History of the Courtland-Gleeson (Turquoise) Mining District
Native Americans mined small amounts of turquoise, used as a medicine stone, from Turquoise Mountain on the extreme north end of the district, for an unknown number of years.
The first mining claims were staked on silver-lead deposits near Gleeson, on the south end of the district, in 1877. Exploration and development by the Calumet, Phelps Dodge and Great Western companies started a boom in the area in 1907, and copper production peaked in 1912. Mostly in the northern Courtland area, there was small-scale mining for shallow, oxidized high-value copper or lead-zinc replacement deposits in limestone, with by-product gold-silver. The larger underground mines closed by 1920, although small operators continued production until about 1932. There are at least 52 old mine workings in the Turquoise Mining District.
The district was explored prior to Aurelio’s consolidation of the land and commencement of the current exploration program with four large and seven small drilling programs since 1952, totalling 274 drill holes. In 1957, Minerals Exploration Company (MEXCO, a division of Union Oil Company) discovered the Star Hill replacement copper deposit in the MAN area with their first hole, based on an airborne magnetic geophysical anomaly. MEXCO then drilled 51 additional holes on an approximate 200-foot grid, but later abandoned the property.
Intense hydrothermal alteration, pyritization and fracturing in an area of approximately eleven square miles have long attracted the attention of several companies searching for a large porphyry copper deposit. In 1960 through 1967, Bear Creek Mining Company drilled 42 holes, totalling about 57,000 feet, in an area of approximately four square miles west of the old Courtland town site.
Beginning in 1986, Santa Fe Mining Company drilled 108 holes in three main areas: Maude Hill (1986) with 14 holes; an expansion of the MEXCO grid at Star Hill (1989 through 1990) with 52 holes, concentrating only on high-grade mineralization; and enlargement of the Courtland bulk-tonnage replacement copper deposit (1990) with 42 holes. Newmont Mining Company had previously drilled four bulk-tonnage discovery holes at Courtland in 1988.
Mineralization
The Hill Copper-Zinc Project contains two known types of mineralization: primary and secondary. Primary mineralization is at depth and secondary mineralization is closer to the surface.
(1) Primary mineralization (milling required, not amenable to heap leaching):
Massive pyrite plus chalcopyrite (copper) plus sphalerite (zinc) plus or minus magnetite/hematite (iron oxide), with some gold silver and lead, occurs in replacement deposits and skarn primarily within Abrigo limestone. This mineralization was the focus of historic underground mining operations. Lower grade, disseminated sulphide mineralization occurs in skarns and intrusive porphyries. Some primary mineralization is present in other sedimentary formations such as Bolsa Quartzite and Martin Limestone.
Hydrothermal alteration in the wall rock typically consists of intense stockwork and pervasive silicification, along with strong sericitization and argillization, to the extent that drill core is often unidentifiable.
(2) Secondary mineralization (amenable to heap leaching and SX/EW recovery):
Secondary mineralization occurs where near-surface primary mineralization has been oxidized and leached. Limestone areas contain copper oxide minerals (tenorite, malachite, azurite, chrysocolla, melaconite and neotocite) or zinc oxide minerals (such as hemimorphite, smithsonite and hydrozincite). This mineralization varies from iron-stained skarn and leached limestone to heavy gossanous material.
Underlying the oxide zone in some places, is an extensive ‘supergene enrichment blanket’, that contains chalcocite, a copper-rich secondary mineral. It occurs primarily in the MAN zone in the porphyritic intrusives.
All types of mineralization have been offset by numerous steep, closely spaced faults making lateral projection difficult in some cases.
The oxide mineralization is probably the most economically attractive in the Hill Copper-Zinc area because it is close to the surface, and might be mined with lower cost open-pit mining methods. The chalcocite blanket is very extensive and contains significant tonnages of potentially leachable copper mineralization. Together, these secondary types of mineralization make the Hill project an attractive exploration target.
In 2006 and 2007, Aurelio drilled 21,489 feet of core and reverse circulation drilling. This drilling has confirmed previous drilling results by Newmont, Santa Fe, Bear Creek, Great Gray and MEXCO. In 2007, follow-up drilling was begun to outline an oxide resource in the South Courtland zone.
Our 2006-2007 Drilling Program
Beginning in late 2005, ARI increased the potential for discovering bulk-tonnage mineral resources at Star Hill, now named the Hill Copper-Zinc Project, by re-evaluating the data from earlier drilling programs and by confirmatory drilling. Two principal zones were recognized, the Courtland Zone and the MAN Zone.
Phase 1 drilling started in the Fall of 2006. This work was confirmational in nature, attempting to verify the presence and grade of previously drilled mineralization by twinning Newmont and Santa Fe holes. Five holes were drilled on the Courtland zone, which was well-defined by previous drilling, and five more holes were drilled in the area between Courtland and MAN which had some scattered mineralized intervals.
The results of this early phase of drilling were that the Courtland mineralization was confirmed, and the other five holes began to show the presence of a continuation of mineralization between the Courtland and MAN zones. This new target has since been named South Courtland.
Phase 2 drilling started in the middle of 2007. The primary objective of this phase was to pursue the oxide mineralization at South Courtland. A total of 29 holes was drilled in the central part of the zone to expand on previous drilling. Most holes were extended into the sulphide mineralization in order to test the geological model for the zone. In addition, five confirmation holes were drilled in the MAN zone to confirm the Santa Fe and MEXCO results.
The results of Phase 2 drilling show that the South Courtland zone consists of a thin (approximately 125 feet) surface layer of oxidized ledges leading down-dip into sulphide mineralization. At present, only about one third of the South Courtland zone has been drill-tested. Two holes were drilled between the South Courtland and MAN zones and those intercepts suggest possible continuity of the two zones. Drilling shows that there is significant zinc mineralization in some areas that are distinct from the copper mineralization. Further work will address the significance and economics of this mineralization.
The drill holes that Bolsa competed during 2007 on the MAN zone were successful in duplicating previous drilling and confirmed the presence of a thick chalcocite blanket overlying high-grade sulphide mineralization, including copper, zinc, silver, and gold, with scattered lead values. Samples are currently being submitted for leachability analysis, after which a metallurgical scoping study will be carried out.
During 2008, Bolsa undertook preliminary metallurgical test work on the chalcocite and oxide materials in the MAN, Courtland and South Courtland areas, with very encouraging results from sulphuric acid and ammonia leach tests. Bolsa devoted considerable time and resources to re-logging, re-sampling and re-assaying the historic drill core for the Hill Project that was acquired in 2007 (particularly for intervals not previously assayed for silver and gold), along with detailed specific gravity and density test work. The project’s exploration database was fully-digitized during the year.
Future Drill Plans
Future drilling will focus on outlining this new near-surface copper oxide zone with the objective to define a heap-leachable deposit that could possibly be fast-tracked to early production.
Resource Evaluation - Hill Copper-Zinc Project
In October 2007 an independent review of its in-house estimate of the mineralized material in the MAN area was completed. The report was prepared by Chlumsky, Armbrust & Meyers, LLC (“CAM”), an independent mining engineering consulting firm located in Lakewood, Colorado. CAM’s report, entitled “Technical Report: Hill Copper-Zinc Project-MAN Area Arizona” dated October 23, 2007, was authored by Mr. Robert L. Sandefur, P.E., Senior Geostatistician/Ore Reserve Analyst. Estimated in-place mineralized material in the MAN Area is 63,757,000 tons grading 0.43% copper and 0.15% zinc (plus gold, silver and lead credits) based on cut-off grades of 0.20% copper for sulfide material and 0.10% copper for leachable (oxide and chalcocite) mineralized material. Based on the trailing average monthly metal prices for the past three years through October 2007, the copper-equivalent grade of the MAN deposit would be 0.56% copper-equivalent. It appears that all of this material can be mined by open pit with low (less than 2:1) stripping ratios. CAM’s calculations were based on geologic and assay information from 87 historical drill holes totaling 64,252 feet of core and 10,737 assay records. (Aurelio has a total historical database of 274 drill holes for the Hill Copper-Zinc Project.)
The CAM report analyzed the MAN area only. Subsequently, we prepared an in-house analysis of all three zones (MAN, South Courtland and Courtland) which estimated mineralized material at 167.9 million tons (which our management believes could all be mined using open-pit methods) with an approximate copper equivalent grade of 0.52% (copper plus gold, silver and zinc at current values). We expect to enlarge the area of mineralized material in due course with step-out drilling into previously untested areas.
Gavilanes Property
Through Minera Milenium, we hold an option to earn a 100% undivided interest in certain mining claims/concessions situated in the Tamazula District, Durango, Mexico, known as the Gavilanes Property. The Gavilanes Property consisted initially of mining claims/concessions covering approximately 100 hectares, identified as title number 185397, expediente (brief) 321.1/24569 and granted by the Dirección General de Minas and inscribed with number 577, on page 145 of Volume number 251 of the General book of Mining Concessions of the Public Mines register in Mexico City, D.F. Subsequently, 900 hectares of exploration concessions were staked around the initial Gavilanes property.
Option Terms
Pursuant to the terms of the option agreement dated August 18, 2005, between ARI and Minera Holmex, S.A. de C.V., a company incorporated under the laws of the State of Sinaloa, Republic of Mexico, and wholly-owned by Dr. Frederik Warnaars, ARI acquired the right to earn up to a 100% free and clear interest in the mineral exploration and development in the three mining claims/concessions, covering approximately 1,000 hectares. ARI assigned all of its interest in this option to its 98% owned subsidiary, Minera Milenium. In consideration for the option we paid Minera Holmex an amount equal to the taxes in arrears for the years 2001 and 2002 and the aggregate sum of P63,536 (Mexican Pesos) plus late payment penalties (approximately $6,100).
As of December 31, 2008, a total of $85,000 in payments has been made to Minera Millenium. To maintain the option in good standing, Minera Millenium will need to make the following payments to Mr. Modesto Rivas Beltran no later than the dates provided below:
The Gavilanes Property is subject to a 3% net smelter royalty in favor of Mr. Modesto Rivas Beltran of Culiacan, Sinaloa, Mexico. There are no provisions in the option whereby we can purchase all or a portion of the smelter royalty from Mr. Modesto Rivas Beltran.
The smelter royalty will be payable only from the actual proceeds received by our company from any future mint, smelter, refinery or other purchaser from the sale of any ore, metals (including bullion) or concentrates we may produce and sell from the Gavilanes Property, or proceeds we may receive from an insurer in respect of our mineral products, after deducting certain expenses related to certain costs to our company of the extraction, preparation and sale of our mineral products. The smelter royalty shall be paid to Mr. Modesto Rivas Beltran on a quarterly basis within 45 days of the end of each fiscal quarter.
Location of Gavilanes Property
Location and Access
The Gavilanes Property is located approximately 70 km east of Culiacan, near the hamlet of Chiqueritos and can be reached by small fixed wing aircraft or a five-hour drive from Culiacan via Tamazula. Less than 100 people reside in Chiqueritos. In the map below, the area subject to our Option is identified as Los Gavilanes, an area directly south of Chiqueritos village. Reconnaissance mapping and sampling was completed over an area of about 5 square kilometers from the area near the airport, about 2.5 kilometres northwest of Chiqueritos, to the San Andres area in the south.
We carried out road building for roads to access possible drill platforms in the spring of 2005 and late 2006. These roads have provided access to many rock exposures on both the northern and southern flanks of the Gavilanes ridge. To date, we have completed approximately 7.9 kilometers of roadway.
Geology
The area near the Gavilanes Property is underlain by a metasedimentary sequence of possible early Mesozoic age rocks consisting of schists, shales, phyllites, quartzites and meta-arkoses that reach low-grade greenschist metamorphism.
The sequence is intruded by fine-grained dacite porphyries with variable amounts of biotite and/or hornblende and/or magnetite with different porphyritic textures. Various porphyry intrusions may be present, or possibly one intrusive with many local variations. Hydrothermal alterations and surface weathering are often intense and pervasive, so it is difficult at this stage to separate and map the various intrusions or different phases. At one location in the San Andres area, unaltered porphyry was found. A hornblende concentrate separated from this porphyry was dated by the potassium-argon (K-Ar) age method and gave an age of 62.5 million years (early Palaeocene). Porphyry intrusions are exposed over an area of two km in a north-south direction and about one km in an east-west direction. To the east and south they are covered by post-mineral volcanics. A weakly mineralized and weakly altered hydrothermal system was dated as a “whole rock” specimen and gave an age of 42.3 million years (mid-Eocene).
An unbrecciated contact of dacite porphyry with various types of metasediments is exposed in the creek west of Chiqueritos village. This contact is diffuse and consists of a hybrid zone with assimilated sediments and contaminated intrusives, suggesting a slow process of emplacement.
Strike and dip of metasediments to the northeast, north and west and in upper reaches of Arroyo del Oso in the south suggest a doming effect caused by the dacite porphyry complex.
An equigranular medium-grained granodiorite is exposed along the road between the airport and Chiqueritos. This is probably part of a batholith exposed further west. It is unmineralized and intrudes the metasediments. A K-Ar age determination of hornblendes separated from granodiorite resulted in an age of 81.2 million years (upper Cretaceous).
Many post-mineral felsic and mafic dikes cut the area. Their widths vary between 30 cm to 9 meters and are mostly steeply dipping. At various places, they can be followed over a distance of more than 1,000 meters.
The youngest rocks are Miocene volcanics covering the area to the east and south. They are flat-lying and cover the mountains above the 1,200 to 1,300 meter elevation. Part of the prospect may have oxidized prior to the deposition of the volcanic sequence. Oxidized and mineralized porphyries are therefore anticipated to exist below the volcanics to the east. Gavilanes ridge is undergoing, at present, a second stage of oxidation superimposed on an earlier oxidation stage.
Exploration Program - Gavilanes Property
The exploration program for our Gavilanes Property will evaluate the mineral potential of mine waste from historic mining operations, together with surface and near-surface mineralization, as well as deep mineralization.
Phase I: We conducted a due diligence phase, evaluating all the pertinent data in Culiacan, followed by a field visit in 2006. This Phase took about six days to complete and improved our existing information regarding the geology, alteration and gold/silver/molybdenum distribution at the Gavilanes Property. Phase I helped to identify and mark various drill hole locations and plan the initial drilling phase. The total cost for Phase I was $20,000
Phase II: In 2006, Phase II consisted of trenching and access road building over 3.5 kilometers on the north end of the property to expose a newly discovered gold-bearing hydrothermal breccia (called San José) near the headwaters of Las Cuevas Creek. The terrain is extremely steep and progress was slow in the narrow canyon.
The breccia is about 150 meters wide in a northwest to southeast direction and over 750 meters long in a northeast to southwest direction. A total of 83 trench and road cut samples were taken with mixed results, including erratic gold values up to 0.4 parts per million. The matrix is very gossanous after massive sulphides, probably pyrite. The breccia fragments consist of either metasediments or porphyries, or a mixture of both. Part of the breccia is well silicified. Gold assay results of the San Jose breccia received in 2007 are weakly anomalous ranging between 0.01 and 0.13 parts per million, averaging 0.045 parts per million. The gold average of all 83 samples taken is 0.077 parts per million.
At this stage it is not clear if the San José breccia constitutes a drilling target.
In 2007, Phase II consisted of preparation of seven additional drill pads and approximately 1.9 miles (3 kilometers) on or around Gavilanes Ridge. The total cost for exploration in 2007 was $50,045.
In 2008, no work was conducted on the property.
The next phase (which will proceed when funding is available) will include, together with necessary permitting, a drilling program of seven holes for a total of approximately 2,000 meters. The estimated cost would be $375,000 and should take three to four months to complete.
Estimated 2009 Gavilanes Property Exploration Budget
Subsidiaries
We acquired properties in southeastern Arizona, now held through our wholly-owned subsidiary Bolsa Resources, Inc., an Arizona corporation. We also own 98% of the issued and outstanding common shares of Minera Milenium, a Mexican incorporated company which holds an option to earn a 100% interest in 3 mining claims/concessions in Durango, Mexico, known as the Gavilanes Property.
ITEM 3