ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
Properties
As of December 31, 2012, we owned, on a consolidated basis, 82 office, industrial (primarily warehouse/distribution/logistics) and retail properties located in 18 states (Arizona, California, Colorado, Florida, Georgia, Illinois, Kansas, Kentucky, Maryland, Massachusetts, Minnesota, New Jersey, North Carolina, Pennsylvania, South Carolina, Texas, Utah and Virginia) and in the United Kingdom, encompassing approximately 18,995,000 rentable square feet. Our consolidated properties were approximately 97.00% leased (based upon square feet) as of December 31, 2012. As of December 31, 2012, 62 of our consolidated properties were triple net leased to single tenants, which represented approximately 15,509,000 rentable square feet. As of December 31, 2012, certain of our consolidated properties were subject to mortgage debt, a description of which is set forth in Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources-Financing.”
In addition, we had ownership interests in five unconsolidated entities that, as of December 31, 2012, owned interests in 54 properties. Excluding those properties owned through our investment in CBRE Strategic Partners Asia, we owned, on an unconsolidated basis, 47 office, industrial (primarily warehouse/distribution/logistics) and retail properties located in ten states (Arizona, Florida, Illinois, Indiana, Minnesota, Missouri, North Carolina, Ohio, Tennessee and Texas) and in the United Kingdom and Europe encompassing approximately 15,067,000 rentable square feet. Our unconsolidated properties were approximately 98.80% leased (based upon square feet) as of December 31, 2012. As of December 31, 2012, 28 of our unconsolidated properties were triple net leased to single tenants, which represented approximately 12,265,000 rentable square feet. As of December 31, 2012, certain of our unconsolidated properties were subject to mortgage debt, a description of which is set forth in Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources-Financing.”
As of December 31, 2012, our portfolio was 97.80% leased (based upon square feet). The total effective annual rents for our office properties, industrial properties and retail properties were approximately $158,710,000, $86,645,000 and $8,608,000 as of December 31, 2012, respectively (net of any rent concessions). The average effective annual rent per square foot for our office properties, industrial (primarily warehouse/distribution/logistics) properties and retail properties was approximately $19.39, $3.87 and $18.09 as of December 31, 2012, respectively (net of any rent concessions). The average effective annual rent per square foot for our triple net lease office and industrial properties was approximately $18.17 and $3.98 as of December 31, 2012, respectively (net of any rent concessions). As of December 31, 2011, our portfolio was 97.90% leased (based upon square feet). The total effective annual rents for our office properties, industrial properties and retail properties were approximately $161,086,000, $76,084,000 and $8,691,000 as of December 31, 2011, respectively (net of any rent concessions). The average effective annual rent per square foot for our office properties, industrial (primarily warehouse/distribution/logistics) properties and retail properties was approximately $19.00, $3.94 and $17.49 as of December 31, 2011, respectively (net of any rent concessions). The average effective annual rent per square foot for our triple net lease office and industrial properties was approximately $17.29 and $4.05 as of December 31, 2011, respectively (net of any rent concessions).
The following table provides information relating to our properties, excluding those owned through our investment in CBRE Strategic Partners Asia, as of December 31, 2012. These properties consisted of 69 industrial properties, encompassing 24,673,000 rentable square feet, 57 office properties, encompassing 8,893,000 rentable square feet and three retail properties, encompassing 496,000 rentable square feet.
(1) Approximate total acquisition cost represents the purchase price inclusive of customary costs and acquisition fees for properties acquired prior to January 1, 2009 and exclusive of customary costs and acquisition fees for properties acquired on dates subsequent to January 1, 2009.
(2) This property is unencumbered.
(3) Includes undeveloped land zoned for future office and warehouse/distribution/logistics use.
(4) The National Union Fire Insurance Company’s lease expired on December 31, 2012, and it vacated the property. The 90 Hudson Street property is currently 65% leased.
(5) This property is a consolidated joint venture office development property under construction as of December 31, 2012. This property’s Approximate Total Acquisition Cost reflects the costs incurred as of December 31, 2012. See “-Recent Developments,” for an update of this investment.
(6) Total or weighted average. Weighted average Year Built is weighted based upon Approximate Total Acquisition Costs. Weighted average Percentage Leased is weighted based upon Net Rental Square Feet.
(7) Does not include CBRE Strategic Partners Asia properties.
(8) This property is held through the Duke joint venture. See “-Recent Developments,” for an update of this investment.
(9) This property is held through the Afton Ridge joint venture.
(10) Consolidated properties acquired on December 31, 2009 and contributed to the Duke joint venture.
(11) This property is held through the UK JV.
(12) This property is held through the European JV.
Joint Venture with Duke Realty
On May 5, 2008, we entered into a contribution agreement with Duke Realty Limited Partnership (“Duke”), a subsidiary of Duke Realty Corporation (NYSE: DRE), to form the Duke joint venture to initially acquire $248,900,500 in industrial real property assets (the “Industrial Portfolio”). The Industrial Portfolio consisted of six bulk industrial built-to-suit, fully leased properties. On September 12, 2008, we entered into a first amendment to the contribution agreement to acquire a fully leased office building for $37,111,000 and to increase and revise the total purchase commitment to $282,400,000. We own an 80% interest and Duke owns a 20% interest in the Duke joint venture.
As of December 31, 2012, the Duke joint venture held interests in 37 properties, 10 located in Florida, eight located in Ohio, four each located in North Carolina and Texas, two each located in Arizona, Illinois, Indiana, Minnesota and Missouri and one in Tennessee. The 37 properties total 10,998,000 rentable square feet and are currently 98% leased. As of December 31, 2012, the Duke joint venture included 23 triple net single-tenant and other single-tenant properties representing approximately 81% of Duke joint venture portfolio square footage.
We entered into an operating agreement for the Duke joint venture with Duke on June 12, 2008. Duke acts as the managing member of the Duke joint venture and is entitled to receive fees in connection with the services it provides to the Duke joint venture, including asset management, construction, development, leasing and property management services. Duke is also entitled to a promoted interest in the Duke joint venture. We have joint approval rights over all major policy decisions.
On December 17, 2010, in connection with the entry into the Purchase Agreement for the Office Portfolio, as defined below, we entered into an amended and restated operating agreement for the Duke joint venture. The amended and restated operating agreement generally contains the same terms and conditions as the operating agreement dated June 12, 2008 described above, except for the following material changes: (i) Duke has granted us a call option to acquire Duke’s entire interest in the Duke joint venture which such interest shall be valued based on the opinions of qualified appraisers and which we can elect to exercise any time after June 30, 2012 upon the occurrence and adoption by resolution of certain triggering events and (ii) the Duke joint venture has certain rights to participate in the development of certain adjacent and nearby parcels of land currently owned by Duke. See “-Subsequent Events.”
We carry our investment in the Duke joint venture on the equity method of accounting because it is an entity under shared control with Duke. Those investments where we have the ability to exercise significant influence (but not control) over operating and financial policies of such entities are accounted for using the equity method. We eliminate transactions with such equity method subsidiaries to the extent of our ownership in such entities.
Afton Ridge Joint Venture
On September 18, 2008, we acquired a 90% ownership interest in Afton Ridge Joint Venture, LLC, or Afton Ridge, the owner of Afton Ridge Shopping Center, from unrelated third parties. CK Afton Ridge Shopping Center, LLC, a subsidiary of Childress Klein Properties, Inc., or CK Afton Ridge, retained a 10% ownership interest in Afton Ridge and continues to manage Afton Ridge Shopping Center. In connection with the services it provides, CK Afton Ridge is entitled to receive fees, including management, construction management and property management fees. Afton Ridge Shopping Center is located at the intersection of I-85 and Kannapolis Parkway, in Kannapolis, NC.
Afton Ridge Shopping Center is a 470,288 square foot regional shopping center, completed in 2007, in which we own 296,388 rentable square feet that is currently 99% leased. One of the shopping center’s anchors, a 173,900 square foot SuperTarget, is not owned by us. Additional anchor tenants in Afton Ridge Shopping Center are Best Buy, Marshalls, PetSmart, Dick’s Sporting Goods, Stein Mart and Ashley Furniture. Afton Ridge Shopping Center is the retail component of a 260 acre master planned mixed-use development.
CBRE Strategic Partners Asia
We have agreed to a capital commitment of up to $20,000,000 in CB Richard Ellis Group Strategic Partners Asia II-A, L.P., or CBRE Strategic Partners Asia. As of December 31, 2012, we had funded $17,526,000 of our capital commitment and owned an ownership interest of approximately 5.07% in CBRE Strategic Partners Asia. CBRE Strategic Partners Asia was formed to purchase, reposition,
develop, hold for investment and sell institutional quality real estate and related assets in targeted markets in Asia, including China, Japan, India, South Korea, Hong Kong, Singapore and other Asia Pacific markets. As of December 31, 2012, CBRE Strategic Partners Asia, (which closed on January 31, 2008) with its parallel fund CB Richard Ellis Strategic Partners Asia II, L.P., had aggregate investor commitments of approximately $394,203,000 and had acquired ownership interests in 10 properties, five in China and five in Japan. Two of the five original ownership interests located in China were sold in 2010 and one ownership interest in China was sold in 2012. CBRE Strategic Partners Asia has an eight-year term, which may be extended for up to two one-year periods with the approval of two-thirds of the limited partners.
CBRE Strategic Partners Asia is managed by CBRE Investors SP Asia II, LLC, or the Investment Manager, an affiliate of CBRE Global Investors. The Investment Manager is entitled to an annual management fee and acquisition fees. Our share of investment management fees paid to the Investment Manager was approximately $144,000, $204,000 and $282,000, for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. No acquisition fees were paid to the investment manager in 2012, 2011 and 2010.
CBRE Strategic Partners Asia is not obligated to redeem the interests of any of its investors, including us, prior to 2017. Except in certain limited circumstances such as transfers to affiliates or successor trustees or state agencies, we will not be permitted to sell our interest in CBRE Strategic Partners Asia without the prior written consent of the general partner, which the general partner may withhold in its sole discretion.
UK JV and European JV
On June 10, 2010, we entered into two joint ventures with subsidiaries of the Goodman Group (ASX: GMG), (“Goodman”), one of which will seek to invest in logistics focused warehouse/distribution/logistics properties in the United Kingdom, (the “UK JV”), and the other which will seek to invest in logistics focused warehouse/distribution/logistics properties in France, Belgium, the Netherlands, Luxembourg and Germany, (the “European JV”). We own an 80% interest in each joint venture and Goodman owns a 20% interest in each joint venture.
UK JV
The shareholders’ agreement pertaining to the UK JV is by and among RT Princeton UK Holdings, LLC (our wholly-owned subsidiary), Goodman Jersey Holding Trust and Goodman Princeton Holdings (Jersey) Limited, the UK JV, for the purpose of acquiring and holding, either directly or indirectly, up to £400,000,000 in logistics focused warehouse/distribution/logistics properties. On June 10, 2010, we initially funded the UK JV with capital contributions of $26,180,000. The UK JV acquired an initial portfolio of two properties, which were previously owned by a subsidiary of Goodman and which were purchased by the UK JV simultaneously with the closing of the UK JV.
As of December 31, 2012, the UK JV held interests in three properties. The three triple net single-tenant properties total 541,000 rentable square feet and are currently 100% leased.
The initial investment term of the UK JV is three years. A board of directors, comprised of members representing us and Goodman, in each case with an equal number of votes, has the responsibility for the supervision, management and major operating decisions of the UK JV and its business, except with respect to certain reserved matters which will require the unanimous approval of us and Goodman.
During the investment period, the UK JV has a right of first offer, with respect to certain logistics development or logistics investment assets considered for investment in the UK by Goodman or us. If a deadlock has arisen pertaining to a major decision regarding a specific property, either shareholder may exercise a buy-sell option in relation to the relevant property. After the initial investment period, either shareholder wishing to exit the UK JV may exercise a buy-sell option with respect to their entire interest in the UK JV.
The UK JV will pay certain fees to certain Goodman subsidiaries in connection with the services they provide to the UK JV, including but not limited to investment advisory, development management and property management services. Goodman may also be entitled to a promoted interest in the UK JV.
European JV
The shareholders’ agreement pertaining to the European JV is by and among RT Princeton CE Holdings, LLC (our wholly-owned subsidiary), Goodman Europe Development Trust acting by its trustee Goodman Europe Development Pty Ltd. and Goodman Princeton Holdings (LUX) S.À.R.L., the European JV, for the purpose of acquiring and holding, either directly or indirectly, up to 400,000,000 in logistics focused warehouse/ distribution/logistics properties. On June 10, 2010, we initially funded the European JV with capital contributions of $26,802,000. The European JV acquired an initial portfolio of two properties, Duren and Schönberg, which were previously owned by a subsidiary of Goodman and which were purchased by the European JV simultaneously with the closing of the European JV.
As of December 31, 2012, the European JV held interests in six properties. The six triple net single-tenant properties total 3,232,000 rentable square feet and are currently 100% leased.
The initial investment term of the European JV is three years. A board of directors, comprised of members representing us and Goodman, in each case with an equal number of votes, has the responsibility for the supervision, management and major operating decisions of the European JV and its business, except with respect to certain reserved matters which will require the unanimous approval of us and Goodman.
During the investment period, the European JV has a right of second offer (after another investment vehicle managed by Goodman) with respect to certain logistics development or logistics investment assets considered for investment by Goodman, and has a right of first offer with respect to certain logistics development or logistics investment assets considered for investment by us. If a deadlock has arisen pertaining to a major decision regarding a specific property, either shareholder may exercise a buy-sell option in relation to the relevant property. After the initial investment period, either shareholder wishing to exit the European JV may exercise a buy-sell option with respect to their entire interest in the European JV. The European JV will pay certain fees to certain Goodman subsidiaries in connection with the services they provide to the European JV, including but not limited to investment advisory, development management and property management services. Certain Goodman subsidiaries may also be entitled to a promoted interest in the European JV.
Single- and Multi-Tenant Property Distribution
Our single- and multi-tenant property distribution of December 31, 2012 was as follows (Net Rentable Square Feet and Approximate Total Acquisition Cost in thousands):
(1) Number of Properties and Net Rentable Square Feet for Unconsolidated Properties are at 100%. Approximate Total Acquisition Cost for Unconsolidated Properties is at our pro rata share of effective ownership. Does not include our investment in CBRE Strategic Partners Asia.
(2) Triple Net Single-Tenant Properties include certain properties that have di minimis secondary tenant(s).
Property Type Distribution
Our property type distribution as of December 31, 2012 was as follows (Net Rentable Square Feet and Approximate Total Acquisition Cost in thousands):
(1) Number of Properties and Net Rentable Square Feet for Unconsolidated Properties are at 100%. Approximate Total Acquisition Cost for Unconsolidated Properties is at our pro rata share of effective ownership. Does not include our investment in CBRE Strategic Partners Asia.
Geographic Distribution
Our geographic distribution as of December 31, 2012 was as follows (Net Rentable Square Feet and Approximate Total Acquisition Cost in thousands):
(1) Number of Properties and Net Rentable Square Feet for Unconsolidated Properties are at 100%. Approximate Total Acquisition Cost for Unconsolidated Properties is at our pro rata share of effective ownership. Does not include our investment in CBRE Strategic Partners Asia.
Significant Tenants
The following table details our largest tenants as of December 31, 2012 (in thousands):
(1) Net Rentable Square Feet for Unconsolidated Properties is at 100%. Annualized Base Rent for Unconsolidated Properties is at our pro rata share of effective ownership. Does not include our investment in CBRE Strategic Partners Asia.
(2) Our tenants are Amazon.com.azdc, Inc., in the Buckeye Logistics Center and Goodyear Crossing Park II properties, Amazon.com.indc, LLC, in the AllPoints at Anson Bldg. 1 property, and Amazon Fulfillment GmbH, in the Graben Distribution Center I property, which are all wholly-owned subsidiaries of Amazon.com.
(3) The National Union Fire Insurance Company’s lease expired on December 31, 2012, and it vacated the property. The 90 Hudson Street property is currently 65% leased.
(4) Our tenant is CONOPCO, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of Unilever.
(5) Verizon Wireless is the d/b/a for Cellco Partnership.
(6) Our tenant is Iowa College Acquisitions Corp., an operating subsidiary of Kaplan, Inc. The lease is guaranteed by Kaplan Inc.
Tenant Industries
Our tenants operate across a wide range of industries. The following table details our tenant-industry concentrations as of December 31, 2012 (in thousands):
(1) Net Rentable Square Feet for Unconsolidated Properties is at 100%. Annualized Base Rent for Unconsolidated Properties is at our pro rata share of effective ownership. Does not include our investment in CBRE Strategic Partners Asia.
(2) Includes National Union Fire Insurance Company-see “-Significant Tenants.”
Tenant Lease Expirations
The following table sets forth a schedule of expiring leases for our consolidated and unconsolidated properties as of December 31, 2012 (Expiring Net Rentable Square Feet and Expiring Base Rent in thousands):
(1) Expiring Net Rentable Square Feet for Unconsolidated Properties is at 100%. Expiring Base Rent for Unconsolidated Properties is at our pro rata share of effective ownership. Does not include our investment in CBRE Strategic Partners Asia.
(2) Weighted Average Remaining Term is the average remaining term weighted by Expiring Base Rent.
(3) Triple Net Single-Tenant Properties include certain properties that have di minimis secondary tenant(s).
Property Portfolio Size
Our portfolio size at the end of each quarter since commencement of our initial public offering (October 24, 2006) through December 31, 2012 is as follows (Net Rentable Square Feet and Approximate Total Acquisition Cost in thousands):
(1) Net Rentable Square Feet for unconsolidated properties is at 100%. Approximate Total Acquisition Cost is at our pro rata share of effective ownership and does not include our investment in CBRE Strategic Partners Asia.
Insurance Coverage on Properties
We carry comprehensive general liability coverage and umbrella liability coverage on all of our properties with limits of liability which we deem adequate. Similarly, we are insured against the risk of direct physical damage in amounts we believe to be adequate to reimburse us on a replacement basis for costs incurred to repair or rebuild each property, including loss of rental income during the reconstruction period. The cost of such insurance is passed through to tenants whenever possible.
Property Tax Basis and Real Estate Tax
The following table provides information regarding our property tax basis and real estate taxes at each of our consolidated properties as of December 31, 2012:
(1) This amount is based on the pre-construction completion assessed value of this property and the post-construction completion date assessment is likely to increase our future annualized real-estate taxes on this property.
Regulations
Our properties, as well as any other properties that we may acquire in the future, are subject to various international, U.S. federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations, including, among other things, zoning regulations, land use controls, environmental controls relating to air and water quality, noise pollution and indirect environmental impacts such as increased motor vehicle activity. Our properties are subject to regulation under federal laws, such as the ADA, under which all public accommodations must meet federal requirements related to access and use by disabled persons, and state and local laws addressing earthquake, fire and life safety requirements. Although we believe that our properties substantially comply with present requirements under applicable governmental regulations, none of our properties have been audited or investigated for compliance by any regulatory agency. If we were not in compliance with material provisions of the ADA or other regulations affecting our properties, we might be required to take remedial action, which could include making modifications or renovations to properties. Federal, state or local governments may also enact future laws and regulations that could require us to make significant modifications or renovations to our properties. If we were to incur substantial costs to comply with the ADA or any other regulations, our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow, the quoted trading prices of our securities and ability to satisfy our debt service obligations and to pay distributions to shareholders could be adversely affected. We believe that we have all permits and approvals necessary under current law to operate our properties.
Recent Developments
On January 30, 2013, we acquired 100% of Trammel Crow Company’s (“TCC”) interest in our joint venture with TCC which owned and developed our 1400 Atwater Drive property, a 300,000 square foot office development in Malvern, Pennsylvania, a suburb of Philadelphia. 1400 Atwater Drive is 100% leased to Endo Pharmaceuticals, Inc. for use as their corporate headquarters through November 2024 and the lease is guaranteed by Endo Health Solutions Inc. (NASDAQ: ENDP), Endo Pharmaceuticals’ parent company, a specialty pharmaceutical and healthcare solutions company. The cost of the acquisition was approximately $3,431,000. We funded this acquisition using cash reserves and borrowings under our Unsecured Credit Facility.
On February 19, 2013, we entered into an agreement with TCC that will obligate us to form a joint venture with TCC upon the expiration of certain contingencies. We would own a 95% interest and TCC would own a 5% interest in the joint venture. The joint venture will develop a four building, 454,801 square foot build-to-suit office complex in Malvern, Pennsylvania, a suburb of Philadelphia, for Shire US, Inc., which will serve as their US corporate headquarters under a fifteen year lease. Shire US, Inc. is the US based subsidiary of Irish pharmaceutical company Shire Plc (LSE: SHP, NASDAQ: SHPG), a major international pharmaceutical company. The total project cost is anticipated to be approximately $122,288,000 and upon completion of construction and satisfaction of closing obligations, we will acquire 100% of TCC’s interest in the joint venture. There can be no assurance that the joint venture will be formed or that the project will be completed.
On March 1, 2013, we acquired 100% of Duke Realty Limited Partnership’s (“Duke Realty”) interests in 17 properties that were held in our joint venture with Duke Realty (“Duke JV”). The properties are located in major submarkets of Phoenix, Raleigh/Durham, Houston,
Columbus, Cincinnati, Orlando, Ft. Lauderdale, Minneapolis and Dallas and consisted of 16 office buildings and one warehouse/distribution/logistics building totaling 3,318,402 square feet. The acquisition was structured such that membership interests in each of the subsidiaries that hold the properties were distributed to Duke Realty and CSP OP on a pro rata basis in accordance with their percentage ownership interests in the Duke JV (80% to CSP OP and 20% Duke Realty) and CSP OP then purchased Duke Realty’s 20% membership interests in those subsidiaries, resulting in CSP OP owning a 100% interest in each of the property-owning subsidiaries. The aggregate purchase price that CSP OP paid to Duke Realty in connection with the acquisition was approximately $98,140,000, which is 20% of approximately $490,700,000 exclusive of fees and customary closing costs, but inclusive of approximately $216,010,000 of existing mortgage financing. We funded this acquisition using cash reserves and borrowings under our Unsecured Credit Facility.
On March 5, 2013, we entered into an unsecured term loan in the amount of $50,000,000 with TD Bank, N.A (the “TD Term Loan”). Upon closing the TD Term Loan, we simultaneously entered into an interest rate swap agreement with TD Bank to effectively fix the interest rate on the TD Term Loan at 3.425% per annum for its seven-year term, based upon the TD Term Loan’s current stated applicable margin, which may vary during its term based upon the then-current leverage ratio or our then-current credit rating. The TD Term Loan contains customary representations and warrants and covenants. We used the proceeds of the TD Term Loan to repay a portion of our borrowings under our Unsecured Credit Facility.
On March 7, 2013, we entered into an unsecured term loan (the “Wells Fargo Term Loan”) in the amount of $200,000,000 with Wells Fargo Bank, National Association (“Wells Fargo”) and certain other lenders defined in the Wells Fargo Term Loan. Upon closing the Wells Fargo Term Loan, we simultaneously entered into an interest rate swap agreement with Wells Fargo to effectively fix the interest rate on the Wells Fargo Term Loan at 2.4885% per annum for its five-year term, based upon the Wells Fargo Term Loan’s current stated applicable margin, which may vary based upon the then-current leverage ratio or our then-current credit rating. The Wells Fargo Term Loan contains customary representations and warrants and covenants. We used the proceeds of the Wells Fargo Term Loan to repay a portion of our borrowings under our Unsecured Credit Facility.
On March 7, 2013, we entered into a First Amendment (the “First Amendment”) to the credit agreement entered into on September 13, 2012 with a group of lenders, which provided us with an unsecured, revolving credit facility in the initial amount of $700,000,000 (the “Unsecured Credit Facility”). The First Amendment modified the Unsecured Credit Facility to among other things: (i) amend certain definitions, (ii) amend certain requirements of the guarantor, (iii) amend the requirements relating to quarterly financial statements, annual statements, compliance certificates and certain other SEC filings, (iv) amend the requirements relating to electronic delivery of information, (v) provide the Company with an option to restate the tangible net worth covenant in the event of a redemption event, (vi) remove the restriction on negative pledges, (vii) amend the restrictions on intercompany transfers and (viii) amend certain disclosure and confidentiality provisions.
ITEM 3.