Item 2. Our Properties
Overview
The following table sets forth certain operating information for each of our hotels for the year ended December 31, 2005. This information includes periods prior to our acquisition of these hotels unless otherwise indicated:
(1) We acquired the hotel on December 16, 2005.
(2) We acquired the hotel on July 29, 2005. The hotel was immediately converted to the Oak Brook Hills Marriott Resort.
(3) The hotel was newly built and commenced operations on July 1, 2005. Hotel statistics are presented for our ownership period which commenced on July 22, 2005.
(4) The % change from 2004 RevPAR excludes the SpringHill Suites Atlanta Buckhead. The hotel was newly built in 2005 and there are no comparable statistics for 2004.
The following table sets forth information regarding our investment in each of our hotels:
(1) As of December 31, 2005.
(2) 2006 budgeted capital expenditures represents capital expenditures regardless of whether they will be paid for through an escrow account or owner funding.
(3) Total projected investments for each hotel is the gross book value of the hotel as of December 31, 2005 plus 2006 budgeted capital expenditures.
Recent Developments
Chicago Marriott. On March 1, 2006, we signed a purchase agreement to acquire the 1,192 room Chicago Marriott Downtown Magnificent Mile for a purchase price of $295 million plus approximately $11 million of net consideration in the form of an assumed property tax liability and other adjustments (or approximately $257,000 per room), including the assumption of $220 million of floating-rate debt. We made a $5 million non-refundable deposit upon entering into the purchase agreement. The acquisition is scheduled to close on March 15, 2006; however, we have the right to delay the closing for 30 days upon making an additional $5 million non-refundable deposit. We intend to refinance the existing floating-rate
loan with a fixed-rate loan issued by Wachovia Bank, National Association. The principal amount of the refinanced loan will be determined based on market conditions at the time of the refinancing and is expected to be between $170 million and $220 million. The new loan will be a limited recourse loan secured by a mortgage on the property. We will finance the remainder of the purchase price through a portion of the net proceeds from an equity offering. We expect to borrow up to $100 million through a short-term floating-rate loan arranged by Wachovia Bank, National Association, which we will repay with a portion of the net proceeds of the equity offering.
We believe this hotel has an excellent location on North Michigan Avenue in Chicago’s famed shopping and entertainment district, the Magnificent Mile. The hotel is predominantly marketed to groups and individual business travelers who are seeking a premium full-service hotel located in the heart of this well-known district. According to the sellers’ records, last year, over half of the rooms sold at the hotel were sold to corporate and association groups and roughly a quarter were sold to individual corporate travelers. The hotel has 60,000 square feet of flexible meeting space.
We believe that supply and demand dynamics are very favorable in Chicago. For example, the number of hotel rooms added to downtown Chicago over the past five years has been very limited, averaging just over 1% per year. In addition, Chicago is a compelling location for conventions and other city-wide events and over the next few years should benefit from the displacement of conventions caused by Hurricane Katrina. We also believe that this hotel is an irreplaceable asset as the land acquisition and construction cost of building a new large hotel in downtown Chicago would be prohibitive.
We cannot assure you that we will acquire the Chicago Marriott because the completion of the proposed acquisition is subject to a variety of conditions.
Refinancing of Courtyard Manhattan/Fifth Avenue. We have a commitment from Lehman Brothers Bank to refinance the mortgage loan on the Courtyard Manhattan/Fifth Avenue that will mature in January 2007. Pursuant to this commitment, we expect to refinance the $23 million existing floating-rate loan with a $51 million fixed-rate loan that matures in 10 years. At the closing of the refinancing, the interest rate on the loan will be set based on the then current 10-year swap rate plus 90 basis points. We expect that the new fixed-rate loan will require principal repayments based on a 30-year amortization schedule following the first five years of payments of interest only. We expect to close on this refinancing early in the second quarter of 2006.
Our Hotels
Los Angeles Airport Marriott
The Los Angeles Airport Marriott has 1,004 guestrooms, including 19 suites, and approximately 55,000 square feet of meeting space. The hotel attracts both business and leisure travelers due to its convenient location minutes from Los Angeles International Airport (LAX), the fourth busiest airport in the world. The property attracts large groups due to its significant amount of meeting space, guestrooms and parking spaces.
The hotel was built in 1973 and the most recent material renovation occurred in 1999. We are presently planning a major renovation of the rooms (replacing soft goods and case goods), bathrooms and corridors in 2006.
We own a fee simple interest in the hotel.
Salt Lake City Marriott Downtown
The Salt Lake City Marriott Downtown has 510 guestrooms, including 6 suites, and approximately 22,300 square feet of meeting space. The hotel is located in downtown Salt Lake City across from the Salt
Palace Convention Center near Temple Square. Demand for the hotel is generated primarily by the Convention Center, the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints, the University of Utah, government offices and nearby ski destinations. The hotel is connected to Crossroads Plaza Mall, which is expected to undergo a major reconstruction as part of a redevelopment that is expected to include the construction of up to 900 residential units. We believe the hotel will also benefit from the planned establishment by the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints of a major university, with enrollment of up to 10,000 students, near the hotel. While we believe that the Salt Lake City market has good growth prospects over the next few years, it currently is characterized by over-supply, leading to intense rate competition and lower RevPAR.
The hotel was built in 1981 and, immediately prior to the 2002 Salt Lake Olympic games, the prior owner made significant capital improvements, including the replacement of soft goods in the guestrooms and a refurbishment of the lobby, ballroom and public space.
We hold ground lease interests in the hotel and the extension that connects the hotel to Crossroads Plaza Mall. The term of the ground lease for the hotel runs through 2056, inclusive of five ten-year renewal options. The term of the ground lease for the extension of the hotel (containing approximately 1,078 square feet) runs through 2017, inclusive of the one remaining ten-year renewal option.
Frenchman’s Reef & Morning Star Marriott Beach Resort
The Frenchman’s Reef & Morning Star Marriott Beach Resort was recently voted “best resort hotel and best resort hotel with a view” by readers of Caribbean Travel & Life. It is a 17-acre resort hotel located in St. Thomas, U.S. Virgin Islands. The hotel is located on a cliff overlooking Charlotte Amalie Bay and the Caribbean Sea. The hotel has 504 guestrooms, including 27 suites, and approximately 60,000 square feet of meeting space. The hotel caters primarily to tourists, but also attracts group business travelers.
The Frenchman’s Reef section of the resort was built in 1973 and the Morning Star section of the resort was built in 1984. Following severe damage from a hurricane, the entire resort was substantially rebuilt in 1996 as part of a $60 million capital improvement.
We own a fee simple interest in the hotel.
Renaissance Worthington
The Renaissance Worthington is Fort Worth’s only AAA Four Diamond hotel. It has 504 guestrooms, including 30 suites, and approximately 57,000 total square feet of meeting space. The hotel is located in downtown Fort Worth in Sundance Square, a sixteen-block retail area. It is also near Fort Worth’s Convention Center, which hosts a wide range of events, including conventions, conferences, sporting events, concerts and trade and consumer shows.
The hotel was opened in 1981 and underwent $4 million in renovations in 2002 and 2003.
While the hotel does not currently face significant competition from its competitors, the City of Fort Worth has announced that it will heavily subsidize the construction of a new hotel to be managed by Omni to be built next to the convention center. We expect that hotel to become the Renaissance Worthington’s primary competitor in the market. The Omni is scheduled to open in 2008.
We acquired a fee simple interest in the hotel. A portion of the land under the parking garage (consisting of 0.28 acres of the entire 3.46 acre site) is subject to three co-terminous ground leases. Each of the ground leases extends to July 31, 2022 and provides for three successive renewal options of 15 years each. The ground leases provide for adjustments to the fixed ground rent payments every ten years during the term.
Torrance Marriott
The Torrance Marriott has 487 guestrooms, including 11 suites, and approximately 23,000 square feet of indoor and outdoor meeting space. The hotel is located in Los Angeles County in Torrance, California, a major automotive center. Three major Japanese automobile manufacturers, Honda, Nissan and Toyota, have their U.S. headquarters in the Torrance area and generate significant demand for the hotel. It is also adjacent to the Del Amo Fashion Center mall, one of the largest malls in America. The hotel benefits from the fact that hotel room supply growth in Los Angeles has remained at relatively low levels, averaging only 0.62 percent per year between 1992 and 2003.
The hotel was completed in 1985. We have developed an intensive capital improvement and repositioning plan for this hotel and plan to replace the guestroom soft goods, renovate the lobby, food and beverage outlets and meeting space, and convert the gift shop to a Starbucks outlet. We also see an opportunity to introduce new concepts for two of the property’s food and beverage outlets. We believe that our repositioning plan will allow this hotel to improve guest satisfaction, entice more group business, improve local catering sales and command higher rates.
We own a fee simple interest in the hotel.
Orlando Airport Marriott
The Orlando Airport Marriott has 486 guestrooms, including 14 suites, and approximately 26,000 square feet of meeting space. The hotel has a resort-like setting yet is well-located in a successful commercial office park five minutes from the Orlando International Airport. The hotel serves predominantly business transient guests as well as small and mid-size groups that enjoy the hotel’s amenities as well as its proximity to the highly efficient and well run airport. We believe that the long-term trends at this hotel are very favorable as new hotel construction in the Orlando Airport sub-market is minimal while the airport is one of the fastest growing airports in the country.
The hotel was built in 1983. We have developed an extensive renovation plan for this hotel, which we believe will help position the hotel to capture higher-rated corporate transient business. We have also begun to implement a complete re-segmentation of the customer base of the hotel by replacing the large, low-rated airline crew segment with higher-rated transient and group business.
We own a fee simple interest in the hotel.
Marriott Griffin Gate Resort
Marriott Griffin Gate Resort is a 163-acre regional resort located north of downtown Lexington, Kentucky. The resort has 408 guestrooms, including 21 suites as well as 13,000 square feet of meeting space. The resort contains three distinct components: the seven story main hotel and public areas, the Griffin Gate Golf Club, with the Rees Jones-designed 18-hole golf course, and The Mansion (which was originally constructed in 1854 and was Lexington’s first AAA 4-Diamond restaurant). The hotel is near all the area’s major corporate office parks and regional facilities of a number of major companies such as IBM, Toyota, Lexel Corporation and Lexmark International. The hotel also is located in proximity to downtown Lexington, the University of Kentucky, the historic Keeneland Horse Track and the Kentucky Horse Park.
The hotel was originally opened in 1981. In 2003, the prior owner, Marriott International, initiated a major renovation and repositioning of the resort, with an approximate $10 million capital improvement plan. We completed the renovation plan in 2005. The renovation included a complete guestroom and guestroom corridor renovation, as well as a renovation of the exterior façade. We also significantly renovated the public space at the hotel.
We own a fee simple interest in the hotel, The Mansion, and most of the Griffin Gate Golf Club. However, there is a ground lease interest under approximately 54 acres of the golf course. The ground lease runs through 2033 (inclusive of four five-year renewal options), and contains a buyout right beginning at the end of the term in 2013 and at the end of each five-year renewal term thereafter. We are the sub-sublessee under another minor ground lease of land adjacent to the golf course, with a term expiring in 2020.
Oak Brook Hills Marriott Resort
In July 2005, we acquired the Oak Brook Hills Resort & Conference Center, replaced the existing manager with an affiliate of Marriott and re-branded the hotel as the Oak Brook Hills Marriott Resort. The resort has 384 guestrooms, including 37 suites. The hotel markets itself to national and regional conferences by providing over 40,000 square feet of meeting space at a hotel with a championship golf course that is convenient to both O’Hare and Chicago Midway airports and is near downtown Chicago. The resort is located in Oak Brook, Illinois.
The hotel was built in 1987. We have begun an extensive renovation at the resort which we intend to complete during 2006. We will renovate the public space, meeting rooms, food and beverage outlets and guest rooms.
The hotel is located on approximately 18 acres that we own in fee simple. The hotel is adjacent to an 18 hole, approximately 110 acre, championship golf course that we lease pursuant to a ground lease which has approximately 40 years remaining, including renewal terms. Rent for the entire initial term of the ground lease has been paid in full.
Vail Marriott Mountain Resort & Spa
The Vail Marriott Mountain Resort & Spa is located at the base of Vail Mountain in Vail, Colorado. The hotel has 346 guestrooms, including 61 suites, and approximately 21,000 square feet of meeting space.
The hotel is approximately 150 yards from the Eagle Bahn Express Gondola, which transports guests to the top of Vail Mountain, the largest single ski mountain in North America, with over 5,289 acres of skiable terrain. The hotel is located in Lions Head Village, the center of which is currently undergoing a massive renovation to create a new European-inspired plaza which will include luxury condominiums and a small 36 room hotel, as well as equipment rentals, ski storage, lockers, ski and snowboard school, shopping and après ski restaurant and bar; dining and shopping opportunities; and a winter ice-skating plaza and entertainment venues. Vail Resorts is scheduling the renovation to be completed before the 2007-2008 season. In total, more than a billion dollars is being invested in the redevelopment of the town of Vail over the next few years and we are optimistic that this investment will increase the value of our hotel.
The hotel opened in 1983 and underwent a luxurious renovation of the public space, guest rooms and corridors in 2002. We are currently planning on completing the renovation, of the meeting space and pre-function space over the next year.
We own a fee simple interest in the hotel.
Marriott Atlanta Alpharetta
The Marriott Atlanta Alpharetta is located in the city of Alpharetta, Georgia, approximately 22 miles north of Atlanta. Alpharetta is located in North Fulton County, a rapidly growing, very affluent county, which is characterized by being the national or regional headquarters of a number of large corporations and it contains a large network of small and mid-sized companies supporting these corporations. The hotel is located in the Windward Office Park near several major corporations, including ADP, AT&T, McKesson, Siemens, Nortel and IBM. The hotel provides all of the amenities that are desired by business
guests and is one of the few full-service hotels in a market predominately characterized by chain-affiliated select-service hotels.
The hotel opened in 2000 and is in excellent condition. The hotel includes 318 guestrooms and 9,000 square feet of meeting space.
We own a fee simple interest in the hotel.
Courtyard Manhattan/Midtown East
The Courtyard Manhattan/Midtown East is located in Manhattan’s East Side, on Third Avenue between 52nd and 53rd Streets. The hotel has 307 guestrooms and 1,500 square feet of meeting space.
Prior to 1998, the building was used as an office building, but then was completely renovated and opened in 1998 as a Courtyard by Marriott. We will complete a complete guestroom and public space renovation in the first quarter of 2006. We also intend to add four new guestrooms as part of this renovation. We intend to target the higher end of the market as a result of many of these improvements.
We hold a fee simple interest in a commercial condominium unit, which includes a 47.725% undivided interest in the common elements in the 866 Third Avenue Condominium; the rest of the condominium is owned predominately (48.2%) by the building’s other major occupant, Memorial Sloan-Kettering. The hotel occupies the lobby area on the 1st floor, all of the 12th-30th floors and its pro rata share of the condominium’s common elements.
Bethesda Marriott Suites
Bethesda Marriott Suites is located in the Rock Spring Corporate Office Park near downtown Bethesda, Maryland, with convenient access to Washington, D.C.’s Beltway (I-495) and the I-270 Technology Corridor. Rock Spring Corporate Office Park contains several million feet of office space and includes companies such as Marriott and Lockheed Martin Corp., as well as the National Institute of Health. The hotel contains 274 guestrooms, all of which are suites, and 4,300 square feet of total meeting space.
The hotel was built in 1990. We are currently completing the refurbishment of guestrooms, to reposition the hotel for higher-rated business.
We hold a ground lease interest in the property. The current term of the ground lease will expire in 2087.
SpringHill Suites Atlanta Buckhead
The SpringHill Suites Atlanta Buckhead is located in the heart of the Buckhead submarket of Atlanta, Georgia. Buckhead is one of the country’s largest urban mixed-use development areas, combining major office, retail, hotel, restaurant/entertainment and high-rise residential development within its commercial core area.
The hotel is newly constructed and first opened for business in July 2005. We purchased the hotel upon opening from the developer of the hotel.
We own a fee simple interest in this 220-room all-suite hotel. The hotel also has 2,000 square feet of meeting space.
Courtyard Manhattan/Fifth Avenue
The Courtyard Manhattan/Fifth Avenue is located on 40th Street, just off of Fifth Avenue in Midtown Manhattan, across the street from the New York Public Library. The hotel is situated in a convenient
tourist and business location. It is within walking distance from Times Square, Broadway theaters, Grand Central Station, Rockefeller Center and the Empire State Building.
The hotel opened in 1990 as a Journey’s End-branded hotel and has since changed brands a number of times. The prior owner of the hotel invested $3.7 million in 1999 to refurbish the hotel and convert it to a Clarion brand pursuant to a five-year agreement. Upon the end of that agreement, the hotel operated under the name Hotel 5A, a non-franchised brand. We believe the hotel’s lack of strong brand affiliation adversely impacted operating results. In 2004, the previous owner engaged a national brokerage firm to market the hotel for sale and, through our senior management team’s relationship with the broker, we learned about the opportunity to purchase this hotel before it was broadly marketed.
Between the time we learned of the opportunity to purchase the hotel and the bid date, we informed Marriott of this opportunity, and Marriott agreed to work with us on an exclusive basis to determine if the hotel was physically suitable to be converted to a Courtyard by Marriott hotel brand. The hotel was operating at a significant discount to the comparably located Courtyard Manhattan/Midtown East, located at 366 Third Avenue. The ADR at the hotel in 2004 was $58 lower than that of the Courtyard Manhattan/Midtown East in 2004. Prior to the bid date, we worked with Marriott to develop a significant rebranding, renovation and repositioning plan to convert the hotel to a Courtyard by Marriott and take advantage of the hotel’s excellent location and the strength of the Marriott brand. Marriott provided $1 million of Key Money to enter into a long-term hotel management agreement with Marriott. We submitted a bid, won the bid process and acquired the hotel in December 2004, and the hotel was re-branded as a Courtyard by Marriott in January 2005.
We are completing significant capital improvements in 2005 and 2006 in connection with the re-branding, renovation and repositioning plan. The capital improvement plan included a complete soft goods renovation of the guestrooms, purchasing new furniture and bedding for the guestrooms, renovation of the bathrooms with granite vanity tops, installation of a new exercise facility, construction of a boardroom meeting space and modifications to make the hotel more accommodating to persons with disabilities.
We hold a ground lease interest in the hotel. The term of the ground lease expires in 2085, inclusive of one 49-year extension. The hotel includes 185 guestrooms.
The Lodge at Sonoma, a Renaissance Resort & Spa
The Lodge at Sonoma, a Renaissance Resort & Spa, is located in the heart of the Sonoma Valley wine country, 45 miles from San Francisco, in the town of Sonoma, California. Numerous wineries are located within a short driving distance from the resort. The area is served by the Sacramento, Oakland and San Francisco airports. The resort is readily accessible by a variety of local, county, and state highways, including Highway 101. Leisure demand is generated by Sonoma Valley and Napa Valley wine country attractions. Group and business demand is primarily generated from companies located in San Francisco and the surrounding Bay Area, and some ancillary demand is generated from the local wine industry.
We own a fee simple interest in the hotel, which is comprised of the main two-story Lodge building, including 76 guestrooms and 18 separate cottage buildings, containing the remaining 102 guestrooms and 4 suites. The Raindance Spa is located in a separate two-story building at the rear of the cottages. The hotel also has 22,000 square feet of meeting and banquet space.
Our Hotel Management Agreements
We are a party to hotel management agreements with Marriott for fourteen of the fifteen properties owned as of December 31, 2005. The fifteenth hotel, the Vail Marriott Mountain Resort & Spa, is managed by an affiliate of Vail Resorts and is under a long-term franchise agreement with Marriott. Marriott is responsible for (i) the hiring of certain executive level employees, subject to certain veto rights, (ii) training and supervising the managers and employees required to operate the properties and (iii) purchasing supplies, for which we generally will reimburse Marriott. Marriott provides centralized reservation systems, national advertising, marketing and promotional services, as well as various accounting and data processing services. Marriott also prepares and implements annual operations budgets subject to our review and approval. Each of our management agreements limits our ability to sell, lease or otherwise transfer the hotels unless the transferee (i) is not a competitor of the manager, (ii) assumes the related management agreements and (iii) meets specified other conditions.
Term
The following table sets forth the effective date, initial term and number of renewal terms under the respective hotel management agreements for each of our hotels. Generally, the term of the hotel management agreements generally automatically renew for a negotiated number of consecutive periods upon the expiration of the initial term unless the property manager gives notice to us of its election not to renew the hotel management agreement.
Amounts Payable under our Hotel Management Agreements
Under our current hotel management agreements, the property manager receives a base management fee and, if certain financial thresholds are met or exceeded, an incentive management fee. The base management fee is generally payable as a percentage of gross hotel revenues for each fiscal year. The incentive management fee is generally based on hotel operating profits and is typically equal to between 20% and 25% of hotel operating profits but the fee only applies to that portion of hotel operating profits above a negotiated return on our invested capital. We refer to this excess of operating profits over a return on our invested capital as “available cash flow.”
The following table sets forth the base management fee and incentive management fee, generally due and payable each fiscal year, for each of our properties:
(1) As a percentage of gross revenues.
(2) Based on a percentage of hotel operating profits above a negotiated return on our investment capital as more fully described in the following footnotes.
(3) Calculated as a percentage of operating profits in excess of 10.75% of the sum of (i) $73.7 million and (ii) the amount of certain capital expenditures.
(4) Calculated as a percentage of operating profits in excess of the sum of (i) $7.5 million and (ii) 10.75% of certain capital expenditures.
(5) The incentive management fee is equal to the available cash flow for each fiscal year, subject to a cap of 20% of operating profit for such fiscal year. Commencing with the fiscal year 2002, the operating profit with respect to each fiscal year is reduced by an amount equal to 10.75% of all material capital expenditures funded by the TRS lessee; provided that the material capital expenditures are included in the calculation of the incentive management fee with respect to the fiscal year or fiscal years during which such expenditures occurred (on a pro rata basis).
(6) Calculated as a percentage of operating profits in excess of the sum of (i) $5.5 million and (ii) 10.75% of certain capital expenditures.
(7) Calculated as a percentage of operating profits in excess of the sum of (i) the payment of certain loan procurement costs, (ii) 10.75% of certain capital expenditures, (iii) an agreed-upon return on certain expenditures and (iv) the value of certain amounts paid into a reserve account established for the replacement, renewal and addition of certain hotel goods.
(8) The base management fee will be equal to 5.5% of gross revenues for fiscal years 2010 through 2014 and 6% for fiscal year 2015 and thereafter until the expiration of the agreement. Also, beginning in 2007, the base management fee may increase to 5.5% at the beginning of the next fiscal year if operating profits equal or exceed $4.7 million, and beginning in 2011, the base management fee may increase to 6.0% at the beginning of the next fiscal year if operating profits equal or exceed $5.0 million.
(9) Calculated as a percentage of operating profits in excess of 12% of the sum of (i) $38.8 million and (ii) the amount of certain capital expenditures, less 5% of the total real estate tax bill (for as long as the hotel is leased to a party other than the manager).
(10) Calculated as a percentage of operating profits in excess of the sum of (i) $3.6 million and (ii) 10.75% of capital expenditures.
(11) The base management fee will be equal to 6% of gross revenues for fiscal years 2008 through 2016 and 6.5% of gross revenues thereafter. In the event that the property’s operating profit is below certain thresholds in 2006 and 2007, the base management fee may be reduced by up to $100,000 per year. In addition, in the event that the hotel’s operating profit is above certain thresholds starting in 2008, the base management fee will be increased to 6.5% and if the hotel’s operating profit is above an additional threshold starting in 2012, the base management fee will be increased to 7.0%
(12) Calculated as a percentage of operating profits in excess of the sum of (i) $4.1 million and (ii) 10.75% of certain capital expenditures.
(13) Calculated as a percentage of operating profits in excess of the sum of (i) $8.4 million and (ii) 10.75% of certain capital expenditures.
(14) Calculated as a percentage of operating profits in excess of the sum of (i) $9.4 million and (ii) 10.75% of certain capital expenditures.
(15) Calculated as a percentage of operating profits in excess of the sum of (i) $7.6 million and (ii) 10.75% of certain capital expenditures.
(16) Calculated as a percentage of operating profits in excess of 11% of our invested capital. The incentive management fee rises to 25% if the hotel achieves operating profits in excess of 15% of our invested capital.
(17) Calculated as a percentage of operating profits in excess of the sum of (i) $4.1 million and (ii) 12% of certain capital expenditures and pre-conversion expenses.
(18) Calculated as a percentage of operating profits in excess of the sum of (i) $8.1 million and (ii) 10.75% of certain capital expenditures. The percentage of operating profits is 20% except from 2011 through 2025 when it is 30%.
(19) Calculated as a percentage of operating profits in excess of 10.75% of our acquisition costs plus certain capital expenditures. We estimate that the threshold will be approximately $9 million. The percentage of operating profits is 20% except from 2011 through 2025 when it is 25%.
We paid $8,107,902 and $260,724 of management fees during the year ended December 31, 2005 and the period from May 6, 2004 (inception) to December 31, 2004. The management fees for the year ended December 31, 2005 consisted of $634,000 of incentive management fees and $7,473,902 of base management fees. All management fees earned during the period from May 6, 2004 (inception) to December 31, 2004 were base management fees.
Chicago Marriott Management Agreement
In connection with our probable acquisition of the Chicago Marriott, we expect to assume a hotel management agreement, dated November 28, 1989, with Marriott as the hotel manager. The initial term expires in December 2008 and is automatically extended for five additional periods of 10 years each. Under this hotel management agreement, Marriott receives a base management fee of 3% of gross revenue as well as an incentive management fee of 20% of hotel operating profits. Unlike all of our other management agreements, the incentive management fee is calculated on the entire operating profit as there is no “owners priority” and the incentive management fee does not deduct base management fees from the calculation of hotel operating profits. This agreement may be terminated by Marriott upon the expiration of the initial term or any renewal term upon eighteen months written notice. This agreement may not be terminated by us and does not provide for any performance termination right.
Our Ground Lease Agreements
Three of our hotels are subject to ground lease agreements that cover all of the land underlying the respective hotel:
· The Bethesda Marriott Suites hotel is subject to a ground lease that runs until 2087. There are no renewal options.
· The Courtyard Manhattan/Fifth Avenue is subject to a ground lease that runs until 2085, inclusive of one 49-year renewal option.
· The Salt Lake City Marriott Downtown is subject to two ground leases: one ground lease covers the land under the hotel and the other ground lease covers the portion of the hotel that extends into the Crossroads Plaza Mall. The term of the ground lease covering the land under the hotel runs through 2056, inclusive of our renewal options, and the term of the ground lease covering the extension runs through 2017, inclusive of the remaining ten-year renewal option.
In addition, part of one of the parking garages adjacent to one of our hotels is subject to a ground lease agreement:
· A portion of the parking garage relating to the Renaissance Worthington is subject to three ground leases that cover, contiguously with each other, approximately one-fourth of the land on which the parking garage is constructed. Each of the ground leases has a term that runs through July 2067, inclusive of the three 15-year renewal options.
Finally, two of the golf courses adjacent to two of our hotels are subject to ground lease agreements:
· The golf course which is part of the Marriott Griffin Gate Resort is subject to a ground lease covering approximately 54 acres. The ground lease runs through 2033, inclusive of our renewal options. We have the right, beginning in 2013 and upon the expiration of any 5-year renewal term, to purchase the property covered by such ground lease for an amount ranging from $27,500 to $37,500 per acre, depending on which renewal term has expired. The ground lease also grants us the right to purchase the leased property upon a third party offer to purchase such property on the same terms and conditions as the third party offer. We are also the sub-sublessee under another minor ground lease of land adjacent to the golf course, with a term expiring in 2020.
· The golf course which is part of the Oak Brook Hills Marriott Resort is subject to a ground lease covering approximately 110 acres. The ground lease runs through 2045 including renewal options.
These ground leases generally require us to make rental payments (including a percentage of gross receipts as percentage rent with respect to the Courtyard Manhattan/Fifth Avenue ground lease) and payments for all, or in the case of the ground leases covering the Salt Lake City Marriott Downtown extension and a portion of the Marriott Griffin Gate Resort golf course, our tenant’s share of, charges, costs, expenses, assessments and liabilities, including real property taxes and utilities. Furthermore, these ground leases generally require us to obtain and maintain insurance covering the subject property.
The following table reflects the annual base rents of our ground leases:
(1) These terms assume our exercise of all renewal options.
(2) Represents rent for the year ended December 31, 2005. Rent will increase annually by 5.5%.
(3) The ground lease term is 49 years. We have the right to renew the ground lease for an additional 49 year term on the same terms then applicable to the ground lease.
(4) The total annual rent includes the fixed rent noted in the table plus a percentage rent equal to 5% of gross receipts for each lease year, but only to the extent that 5% of gross receipts exceeds the minimum fixed rent in such lease year.
(5) We have the right to extend the term of this lease for two consecutive renewal terms of ten years each with rent at then market value.
Subject to certain limitations, an assignment of the ground leases covering the Courtyard Manhattan/Fifth Avenue and a portion of the Marriott Griffin Gate Resort golf course and the Oak Brook Hills Marriott Resort golf course do not require the consent of the ground lessor. With respect to the
ground leases covering the Salt Lake City Marriott Downtown hotel and extension and Bethesda Marriott Suites, any proposed assignment of our leasehold interest as ground lessee under the ground lease requires the consent of the applicable ground lessor. As a result, we may not be able to sell, assign, transfer or convey our ground lessee’s interest in any such property in the future absent the consent of the ground lessor, even if such transaction may be in the best interests of our stockholders.
Mortgage Debt
As of December 31, 2005, we had approximately $416.4 million of outstanding mortgage debt. The following table sets forth our mortgage debt obligations on our hotels.
(1) The debt may be prepaid. If it is prepaid prior to August 2012, it is subject to a prepayment fee equal to the greater of (i) one percent of the outstanding principal amount or (ii) a yield maintenance premium determined as set forth in the Deed of Trust.
(2) Prepayment of the debt on the Los Angeles Airport Marriott, Renaissance Worthington and Orlando Airport Marriott is not permitted until the earlier of (i) two years after securitization (the lender intends to sell all or a portion of the debt through one or more public offerings) or (ii) four years from the closing date. Thereafter, we may pay a defeasance deposit in lieu of a prepayment of the debt. Prepayment in full will be permitted at par on the last three payment dates before the maturity date. For the loan secured by the mortgage on Frenchman’s Reef & Morning Star Marriott Beach Resort, we may release the lien of mortgage through a defeasance deposit at any time after the earlier of (i) two years after securitization or (ii) thirty months after the closing date of the loan.
(3) The debt has a three-year interest only period. After the expiration of that period, the debt will amortize based on a thirty-year schedule.
(4) We may not prepay the loan without the express written consent of the lender, and we have no right to prepay the debt until October 2009. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the lender accepts prepayment of the debt prior to October 2009, we must pay a penalty equal to the greater of (i) 1% of the outstanding principal and (ii) the present value, as of the prepayment calculation date, of a series of monthly payments over the remaining term of the loan, each equal to the amount of interest that would be due on the portion of the loan being prepaid, assuming an annual interest rate of 5.11% over the discounted reinvestment yield, as such term is defined in the agreement.
(5) The debt may be prepaid at par.
(6) We have entered into an interest rate cap agreement on this debt. Breakage fees may be payable if the debt is repaid.
(7) The debt allows for three one-year extensions provided that certain conditions are met.
(8) The debt may not be prepaid until three months prior to the maturity date of the mortgage loan (the “Prepayment Release Date”). For Salt Lake City Marriott Downtown, we may prepay the loan on or after the Prepayment Release Date without payment of fees. However, we must pay to the lender, simultaneously with such prepayment, the interest that would have accrued on the outstanding principal balance of the loan at the regular interest rate through the end of the interest period in which such prepayment occurs.
(9) The debt has a five-year interest only period. After the expiration of that period, the debt will amortize based on a thirty-year schedule.
(10) There is an accelerated amortization provision based on a predetermined formula of available cash flow.
(11) The debt has a four-year interest only period. After the expiration of that period, the debt will amortize based on a thirty-year schedule.
Item 3.