Item 2.
Our Properties
Overview
The following table sets forth certain operating information for each of our hotels owned during the year ended December 31, 2009:
The following table sets forth information regarding our investment in each of our owned hotels as of December 31, 2009:
Our Hotels
Bethesda Marriott Suites
Bethesda Marriott Suites is located in the Rock Spring Corporate Office Park near downtown Bethesda, Maryland, with convenient access to Washington, D.C.’s Beltway (I-495) and the I-270 Technology Corridor. Rock Spring Corporate Office Park contains several million feet of office space and includes corporate headquarters for companies such as Marriott and Lockheed Martin Corp., as well as major offices for the National Institute of Health. The hotel contains 272 guestrooms, all of which are suites, and 5,000 square feet of total meeting space.
The hotel was built in 1990. We completed the refurbishment of guestrooms during 2006. The hotel lobby was renovated in 2007 and converted into a Marriott “great room.”
We acquired the hotel in 2004. We hold the property pursuant to a ground lease. The current term of the ground lease will expire in 2087.
Chicago Marriott
The Chicago Marriott opened in 1978 and contains 1,198 rooms, 90,000 square-feet of meeting space, and three food and beverage outlets. The 46-story hotel sits amid the world-famous shops and restaurants on Michigan Avenue, in the heart of downtown Chicago.
We undertook a $35 million renovation of the hotel beginning in 2008. The substantially completed renovation included a complete redo of all the meeting rooms and ballrooms, adding 17,000 square feet of new meeting space, reconcepting and relocating the restaurant, expanding the lobby bar and creating a Marriott “great room” in the lobby.
We acquired the hotel in 2006. We own a fee simple interest in the hotel.
In mid-2010, a JW Marriott is expected to open in downtown Chicago. We expect the JW Marriott to be a significant competitor to the Chicago Marriott as it will compete for loyal Marriott customers, particularly business transient travelers, a typically high ADR segment.
Conrad Chicago
The Conrad Chicago opened in 2001 as a Le Meridien and contains 311 rooms, 33 of which are suites, and 13,000 square-feet of meeting space. The property is located on several floors within the 17-story former McGraw-Hill Building, amid Chicago’s Magnificent Mile. The Conrad Chicago rises above the Westfield North Bridge Shopping Centre and the Nordstrom department store on North Michigan Avenue. The property is approximately one half block away from our Chicago Marriott.
The Conrad Chicago changed management to Hilton in November 2005 and had its official “Conrad launch” in June 2006. Conrad Hotels has approximately 25 luxury properties worldwide, but currently just three are open in the United States. Conrad Hotels are Hilton’s competitor to Marriott’s Ritz-Carlton brand or Starwood’s St. Regis brand.
In 2008, we completed a renovation of the guestrooms, corridors, and front entrance.
We acquired the hotel in 2006. We own a fee simple interest in the hotel.
Courtyard Manhattan/Fifth Avenue
The Courtyard Manhattan/Fifth Avenue is located on 40th Street, just off of Fifth Avenue in Midtown Manhattan, across the street from the New York Public Library. The hotel is situated in a convenient tourist and business location. It is within walking distance from Times Square, Broadway theaters, Grand Central Station, Rockefeller Center and the Empire State Building. The hotel includes 185 guestrooms.
We completed significant capital improvements in 2005 and 2006 in connection with our re-branding, renovation and repositioning plan. The capital improvement plan included a complete renovation of the guestrooms, new furniture and bedding for the guestrooms, renovation of the bathrooms with granite vanity tops, installation of a new exercise facility, construction of a boardroom meeting space and modifications to make the hotel more accommodating to persons with disabilities.
We acquired the hotel in 2004. We hold the property pursuant to a ground lease. The term of the ground lease expires in 2085, inclusive of one 49-year extension.
Courtyard Manhattan/Midtown East
The Courtyard Manhattan/Midtown East is located in Manhattan’s East Side, on Third Avenue between 52nd and
53rd
Streets. The hotel has 312 guestrooms and 1,500 square feet of meeting space.
Prior to 1998, the building was used as an office building, but then was completely renovated and opened in 1998 as a Courtyard by Marriott. We completed a guestroom and public space renovation during 2006.
We acquired the hotel in 2004. We hold a fee simple interest in a commercial condominium unit, which includes a 47.725% undivided interest in the common elements in the 866 Third Avenue Condominium; the rest of the condominium is owned predominately (48.2%) by the building’s other major occupant, Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Hospital. The hotel occupies the lobby area on the 1st floor, all of the 12th-30th floors and its pro rata share of the condominium’s common elements.
Frenchman’s Reef & Morning Star Marriott Beach Resort
The Frenchman’s Reef & Morning Star Marriott Beach Resort is a 17-acre resort hotel located in St. Thomas, U.S. Virgin Islands. The hotel is located on a hill overlooking Charlotte Amalie Harbor and the Caribbean Sea. The hotel has 502 guestrooms, including 27 suites, and approximately 60,000 square feet of meeting space. The hotel caters primarily to tourists, but also attracts group business travelers.
The Frenchman’s Reef section of the resort was built in 1973 and the Morning Star section of the resort was built in 1984. Following severe damage from a hurricane, the entire resort was substantially rebuilt in 1996 as part of a $60 million capital improvement.
We acquired the hotel in 2005 and own a fee simple interest in the hotel.
Los Angeles Airport Marriott
The Los Angeles Airport Marriott was built in 1973 and has 1,004 guestrooms, including 19 suites, and approximately 55,000 square feet of meeting space. The hotel guestrooms underwent a significant renovation in 2006 and the meeting rooms were renovated in 2007. The hotel attracts both business and leisure travelers due to its convenient location minutes from Los Angeles International Airport (LAX), the fourth busiest airport in the world. The property attracts large groups due to its significant amount of meeting space, guestrooms and parking spaces.
We acquired the hotel in 2005 and own a fee simple interest in the hotel.
Marriott Atlanta Alpharetta
The Marriott Atlanta Alpharetta is located in the city of Alpharetta, Georgia, approximately 22 miles north of Atlanta. Alpharetta is located in North Fulton County, a very affluent county, which is characterized by being the national or regional headquarters of a number of large corporations, and it contains a large network of small and mid-sized companies supporting these corporations. The hotel is located in the Windward Office Park near several major corporations, including ADP, AT&T, McKesson, Siemens, Nortel and IBM. The hotel provides all of the amenities that are desired by business guests and is one of the few full-service hotels in a market predominately characterized by chain-affiliated select-service hotels.
The hotel opened in 2000. The hotel includes 318 guestrooms and 9,000 square feet of meeting space. We renovated the hotel meeting space during 2008.
We acquired the hotel in 2005 and own a fee simple interest in the hotel.
Marriott Griffin Gate Resort
Marriott Griffin Gate Resort is a 163-acre regional resort located north of downtown Lexington, Kentucky. The resort has 408 guestrooms, including 21 suites, as well as 13,000 square feet of meeting space. The resort contains three distinct components: the seven story main hotel and public areas, the Griffin Gate Golf Club, with a Rees Jones-designed 18-hole golf course, and The Mansion (which was originally constructed in 1854 and was Lexington’s first AAA 4-Diamond restaurant). The hotel is near all the area’s major corporate office parks and regional facilities of a number of major companies such as IBM, Toyota, Lexel Corporation and Lexmark International. The hotel also is located in proximity to downtown Lexington, the University of Kentucky, the historic Keeneland Horse Track and the Kentucky Horse Park.
The hotel originally opened in 1981. In 2003, the prior owner, Marriott, initiated a major renovation and repositioning of the resort, with an approximate $10 million capital improvement plan. We completed the renovation plan in 2005. The renovation included a complete guestroom and guestroom corridor renovation, as well as a renovation of the exterior façade. We also significantly renovated the public space at the hotel. In 2007, we added a spa, repositioned and redesigned the restaurants, and added meeting space to the hotel.
We acquired the hotel in 2004. We own a fee simple interest in the hotel, The Mansion, and most of the Griffin Gate Golf Club. However, approximately 54 acres of the golf course are held pursuant to a ground lease. The ground lease runs through 2033 (inclusive of four five-year renewal options), and contains a buyout right beginning at the end of the term in 2013 and at the end of each five-year renewal term thereafter. We are the sub-sublessee under another minor ground lease of land adjacent to the golf course, with a term expiring in 2020.
Oak Brook Hills Marriott Resort
In July 2005, we acquired the Oak Brook Hills Resort & Conference Center, replaced the existing manager with an affiliate of Marriott and re-branded the hotel as the Oak Brook Hills Marriott Resort. The hotel underwent a significant renovation in 2006 and early 2007. The resort was built in 1987 and has 386 guestrooms, including 37 suites. The hotel markets itself to national and regional conferences by providing over 40,000 square feet of meeting space at a hotel with a championship golf course that is convenient to both O’Hare and Chicago Midway airports and is near downtown Chicago. The resort is located in Oak Brook, Illinois.
The hotel is located on approximately 18 acres that we own in fee simple. The hotel is adjacent to an 18-hole, approximately 110-acre, championship golf course that we lease pursuant to a ground lease, which has approximately 40 years remaining, including renewal terms. Rent for the entire initial term of the ground lease has been paid in full.
Orlando Airport Marriott
The Orlando Airport Marriott was built in 1983 and has 486 guestrooms, including 14 suites, and approximately 26,000 square feet of meeting space. The hotel underwent a significant renovation in 2006. The hotel has a resort-like setting yet is well-located in a successful commercial office park five minutes from the Orlando International Airport. The hotel serves predominantly business transient guests as well as small and mid-size groups that enjoy the hotel’s amenities as well as its proximity to the airport.
We acquired the hotel in 2005 and own a fee simple interest in the hotel.
Renaissance Austin
The Renaissance Austin opened in 1986 and includes 492 rooms (14 of which were added in 2006), 60,000 square feet of meeting space, a restaurant, lounge and delicatessen. The hotel converted an adjacent lounge into high-end meeting space during 2008. The hotel is situated in the heart of Austin’s Arboretum area, near the major technology firms located in Austin, including Dell, Motorola, IBM, Samsung and National Instruments. In close proximity are office complexes, high-end shopping and upscale restaurants. The hotel is 12 miles from downtown Austin, home of the 6th Avenue Historic District, the State Capitol, and the University of Texas.
In 2008, we completed the conversion of a nightclub in the building adjacent to the hotel into 7,000 square feet of high-quality meeting space.
We acquired the hotel in 2006 and own a fee simple interest in the hotel.
In March 2010, the Westin Austin at the Domain is expected to open. We expect this hotel to be a significant competitor to the Renaissance Austin due to its proximity to our important corporate customers.
Renaissance Waverly
The Renaissance Waverly opened in 1983 and includes 521 rooms, 65,000 square feet of meeting space, and multiple food and beverage outlets. The Renaissance Waverly consists of a 13-story rectangular tower with an impressive atrium rising to the top floor. The Renaissance Waverly is connected to the Galleria shopping complex and the 320,000 square-foot Cobb Galleria Centre convention facility. The Galleria office complex is within Atlanta’s 2nd largest office sub-market and in close proximity to Home Depot’s world headquarters, as well as offices for IBM, Lockheed Martin and Coca-Cola. Within walking distance of the property are the Cumberland Mall, and the new $145 million, 2,750-seat, Cobb Energy Performing Arts Center, which opened in 2007.
We acquired the hotel in 2006 and own a fee simple interest in the hotel.
Renaissance Worthington
The Renaissance Worthington has 504 guestrooms, including 30 suites, and approximately 57,000 total square feet of meeting space. The hotel is located in downtown Fort Worth in Sundance Square, a sixteen-block retail area. It is also near Fort Worth’s Convention Center, which hosts a wide range of events, including conventions, conferences, sporting events, concerts and trade and consumer shows.
The hotel was opened in 1981 and underwent $4 million in renovations in 2002 and 2003.
Supply and demand in the Fort Worth hotel market was relatively stable until a newly constructed hotel owned and managed by Omni Hotels, and subsidized by the city of Fort Worth, was opened in January 2009. The Fort Worth Omni is a very strong competitor as it is located next to the convention center.
We acquired a fee simple interest in the hotel in 2005. A portion of the land under the parking garage (consisting of 0.28 acres of the entire 3.46 acre site) is subject to three co-terminus ground leases. Each of the ground leases extends to July 31, 2022 and provides for three successive renewal options of 15 years each. The ground leases provide for adjustments to the fixed ground rent payments every ten years during the term.
Salt Lake City Marriott Downtown
The Salt Lake City Marriott Downtown has 510 guestrooms, including 6 suites, and approximately 22,300 square feet of meeting space. The hotel’s rooms underwent a significant renovation in late 2008 and into early 2009. The hotel is located in downtown Salt Lake City across from the Salt Palace Convention Center near Temple Square. Demand for the hotel is generated primarily by the Convention Center, the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints, the University of Utah, government offices and nearby ski destinations.
The hotel is located next to the City Creek Project, one of the largest urban redevelopment projects in the United States. Currently, the owner of the City Creek Project, an affiliate of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints, has cleared a 20 acre parcel of land between the hotel and Temple Square, the location of the Salt Lake Temple and Salt Lake Tabernacle, and is in the process of constructing a high-end mixed use project consisting of retail, office and residential. The project is expected to be completed in 2012. Until the completion of the project, the hotel is expected to experience some disruption. After the completion of the project, it is expected to be an amenity and demand-driver for the hotel.
We acquired the hotel in 2004. We hold ground lease interests in the hotel and the extension that connects the hotel to City Creek Project. The term of the ground lease for the hotel runs through 2056, inclusive of five ten-year renewal options. The term of the ground lease for the extension of the hotel (containing approximately 1,078 square feet) runs through 2017. In 2009, we acquired a 21% interest in the land under the hotel for approximately $0.9 million. This gives us a right of first refusal in the event that the other owners want to sell their interests in the entity and the right to veto the sale of the land to a third party.
The Lodge at Sonoma, a Renaissance Resort & Spa
The Lodge at Sonoma, a Renaissance Resort & Spa, was built in 2000 and is located in the heart of the Sonoma Valley wine country, 45 miles from San Francisco, in the town of Sonoma, California. Numerous
wineries are located within a short driving distance from the resort. The area is served by the Sacramento, Oakland and San Francisco airports. Leisure demand is generated by Sonoma Valley and Napa Valley wine country attractions. Group and business demand is primarily generated from companies located in San Francisco and the surrounding Bay Area, and some ancillary demand is generated from the local wine industry.
We acquired the hotel in 2004. We own a fee simple interest in the hotel, which is comprised of the main two-story Lodge building, including 76 guestrooms and 18 separate cottage buildings, containing the remaining 102 guestrooms and 4 suites. The Raindance Spa is located in a separate two-story building at the rear of the cottages. The hotel also has 22,000 square feet of meeting and banquet space.
Torrance Marriott South Bay
The Torrance Marriott South Bay was built in 1985 and has 487 guestrooms, including 11 suites, and approximately 23,000 square feet of indoor and outdoor meeting space. The hotel underwent a significant renovation in 2006 and 2007. The hotel is located in Los Angeles County in Torrance, California, a major automotive center. Two major Japanese automobile manufacturers, Honda and Toyota, have their U.S. headquarters in the Torrance area and generate significant demand for the hotel. It is also adjacent to the Del Amo Fashion Center mall, one of the largest malls in America.
We acquired the hotel in 2005 and own a fee simple interest in the hotel.
Westin Atlanta North at Perimeter
In May 2006, we acquired the Westin Atlanta North at Perimeter. The 20-story hotel opened in 1987 and contains 369 rooms and 20,000 square-feet of meeting space. The property is located within the Perimeter Center sub-market of Atlanta, Georgia. Comprising over 23 million square-feet of office space, Perimeter Center is one of the largest office markets in the southeast, representing substantial levels of corporate demand including: UPS, Hewlett Packard, Microsoft, Newell Rubbermaid and GE.
We acquired our fee simple interest in the hotel in 2006. We completed guestroom and lobby renovations during 2007.
Westin Boston Waterfront Hotel
In January 2007, we acquired the Westin Boston Waterfront Hotel. The hotel opened in June 2006 and contains 793 rooms and 69,000 square feet of meeting space. The hotel is attached to the recently built 1.6 million square foot Boston Convention and Exhibition Center, or BCEC, and is located in the Seaport District. The Westin Boston Waterfront Hotel includes a full service restaurant, a lobby lounge, a Starbucks licensed café, a 400-car underground parking facility, a fitness center, an indoor swimming pool, a business center, a gift shop and retail space.
The retail space is a separate three-floor, 100,000 square foot building attached to the Westin Boston Waterfront Hotel. In this building, we completed the construction of 37,000 square feet of meeting and exhibition space at a cost of approximately $19 million. We have leased a portion of the retail space to an Irish pub restaurant and an upscale bar, which added valuable amenities for our guests. When the remaining retail space is leased to third-party tenants, we or the tenants will complete the necessary tenant improvements.
We also acquired a leasehold interest in a parcel of land with development rights to build a 320 to 350 room hotel. The expansion hotel, should we decide to build it, will be located on a 11/2 acre parcel of developable land that is immediately adjacent to the Westin Boston Waterfront Hotel. The expansion hotel is expected to have 320 to 350 rooms and 100 underground parking spaces and, upon construction, could also be attached to the BCEC. We are still investigating the cost to construct and the potential returns associated with, an expansion hotel and have not concluded whether or not to pursue this portion of the project.
Vail Marriott Mountain Resort & Spa
The Vail Marriott Mountain Resort & Spa is located at the base of Vail Mountain in Vail, Colorado. The hotel has 346 guestrooms, including 61 suites, and approximately 21,000 square feet of meeting space.
The hotel is approximately 150 yards from the Eagle Bahn Express Gondola, which transports guests to the top of Vail Mountain, the largest single ski mountain in North America, with over 5,289 acres of skiable terrain. The hotel is located in Lionshead Village, the center of which was recently completely renovated to create a new European-inspired plaza which includes luxury condominiums and a small 36 room hotel, as well as equipment rentals, ski storage, lockers, ski and snowboard school, shopping and an après ski restaurant and bar; dining and shopping opportunities; and a winter ice-skating plaza and entertainment venues.
The hotel opened in 1983 and underwent a luxurious renovation of the public space, guest rooms and corridors in 2002. We acquired the hotel in 2005 and completed the renovation of certain meeting space and pre-function space during 2006.
We own a fee simple interest in the hotel.
Our Hotel Management Agreements
We are a party to hotel management agreements with Marriott for sixteen of the twenty properties. The Vail Marriott Mountain Resort & Spa is managed by an affiliate of Vail Resorts and is under a long-term franchise agreement with Marriott; the Westin Atlanta North at Perimeter is managed by Davidson Hotel Company; the Conrad Chicago is managed by Conrad Hotels USA, Inc., a subsidiary of Hilton; and the Westin Boston Waterfront Hotel is managed by Westin Hotel Management, L.P. a subsidiary of Starwood.
Each hotel manager is responsible for (i) the hiring of certain executive level employees, subject to certain veto rights, (ii) training and supervising the managers and employees required to operate the properties and (iii) purchasing supplies, for which we generally will reimburse the manager. The managers (or the franchisor in the case of the Vail Marriott Mountain Resort & Spa and the Westin Atlanta North at Perimeter) provide centralized reservation systems, national advertising, marketing and promotional services, as well as various accounting and data processing services. Each manager also prepares and implements annual operations budgets subject to our review and approval. Each of our management agreements limit our ability to sell, lease or otherwise transfer the hotels unless the transferee (i) is not a competitor of the manager, (ii) assumes the related management agreements and (iii) meets specified other conditions.
Term
The following table sets forth the agreement date, initial term and number of renewal terms under the respective hotel management agreements for each of our hotels. Generally, the term of the hotel management agreements renew automatically for a negotiated number of consecutive periods upon the expiration of the initial term unless the property manager gives notice to us of its election not to renew the hotel management agreement.
Amounts Payable under our Hotel Management Agreements
Under our current hotel management agreements, the property manager receives a base management fee and, if certain financial thresholds are met or exceeded, an incentive management fee. The base management fee is generally payable as a percentage of gross hotel revenues for each fiscal year. The incentive management fee is generally based on hotel operating profits and is typically equal to between 20% and 25% of hotel operating profits, but the fee only applies to that portion of hotel operating profits above a negotiated return on our invested capital. We refer to this excess of operating profits over a return on our invested capital as “available cash flow.”
The following table sets forth the base management fee and incentive management fee, generally due and payable each fiscal year, for each of our properties:
(1)
As a percentage of gross revenues.
(2)
Based on a percentage of hotel operating profits above a negotiated return on our invested capital as more fully described in the following footnotes.
(3)
Calculated as a percentage of operating profits in excess of the sum of (i) $5.9 million and (ii) 10.75% of certain capital expenditures.
(4)
Calculated as a percentage of operating profits in excess of the sum of (i) $4.1 million and (ii) 10.75% of certain capital expenditures.
(5)
Calculated as a percentage of operating profits after a pre-set dollar amount of owner’s priority beginning in 2010. The owner’s priority is $3.0 million in 2010, $3.7 million on 2011, $4.2 million in 2012, $4.7 million in 2013, $5.0 million in 2014. In 2015 and thereafter, the owner’s priority adjusts annually based upon CPI. The incentive management fee cannot exceed 1.5% of total revenue.
(6)
Calculated as a percentage of operating profits in excess of the sum of (i) the payment of certain loan procurement costs, (ii) 10.75% of certain capital expenditures, (iii) an agreed-upon return on certain expenditures and (iv) the value of certain amounts paid into a reserve account established for the replacement, renewal and addition of certain hotel goods. The owner’s priority expires in 2027.
(7)
Calculated as a percentage of operating profits in excess of the sum of (i) actual debt service and (ii) 15% of cumulative and compounding return on equity, which resets with each sale.
(8)
Calculated as 20% of net operating income before base management fees. There is no owner’s priority.
(9)
The base management fee will increase to 3% for fiscal year 2010 and thereafter.
(10)
Calculated as a percentage of operating profits after a pre-set dollar amount ($8.7 million in 2009 and $8.8 million in 2010) of owner’s priority. Beginning in fiscal year 2011, the incentive management fee will be based on 103% of the prior year cash flow.
(11)
The base management fee will be equal to 5.5% of gross revenues for fiscal years 2010 through 2014 and 6% for fiscal year 2015 and thereafter until the expiration of the agreement. Beginning in 2011, the base management fee may increase to 6.0% at the beginning of the next fiscal year if operating profits equal or exceed $5.0 million.
(12)
Calculated as a percentage of operating profits in excess of the sum of (i) $5.5 million and (ii) 12% of certain capital expenditures, less 5% of the total real estate tax bill (for as long as the hotel is leased to a party other than the manager).
(13)
Calculated as a percentage of operating profits in excess of the sum of (i) $7.9 million and (ii) 10.75% of certain capital expenditures.
(14)
Calculated as a percentage of operating profits in excess of the sum of (i) $9.2 million and (ii) 10.75% of certain capital expenditures.
(15)
Calculated as a percentage of operating profits in excess of the sum of (i) $10.3 million and (ii) 10.75% of certain capital expenditures.
(16)
Calculated as a percentage of operating profits in excess of the sum of (i) $6.1 million and (ii) 10.75% of certain capital expenditures.
(17)
Calculated as a percentage of operating profits in excess of the sum of (i) $8.1 million and (ii) 10.75% of certain capital expenditures. The percentage of operating profits is 20% except from 2011 through 2021 when it is 30%.
(18)
Calculated as a percentage of operating profits in excess of the sum of (i) $8.9 million and (ii) 10.75% of certain capital expenditures. The percentage of operating profits is 20% except from 2011 through 2021 when it is 25%.
(19)
Calculated as a percentage of operating profits in excess of the sum of (i) $7.6 million and (ii) 10.75% of certain capital expenditures.
(20)
Calculated as a percentage of operating profits in excess of the sum of (i) $6.2 million and (ii) 10.75% of capital expenditures.
(21)
Calculated as a percentage of operating profits in excess of the sum of (i) $3.6 million and (ii) 10.75% of capital expenditures.
(22)
Calculated as a percentage of operating profits in excess of the sum of (i) $7.5 million and (ii) 10.75% of certain capital expenditures.
(23)
Calculated as a percentage of operating profits in excess of the sum of (i) $10.3 million and (ii) 10.75% of certain capital expenditures.
(24)
Calculated as a percentage of operating profits in excess of the sum of (i) $7.4 million and (ii) 11% of certain capital expenditures. The incentive management fee rises to 25% if the hotel achieves operating profits in excess of 15% of our invested capital.
We recorded $19.6 million, $28.6 million and $29.8 million of management fees during the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The management fees for the year ended December 31, 2009 consisted of $4.3 million of incentive management fees and $15.3 million of base management fees. The management fees for the year ended December 31, 2008 consisted of $9.7 million of incentive management fees and $18.9 million of base management fees. The management fees for the year ended December 31, 2007 consisted of $11.1 million of incentive management fees and $18.7 million of base management fees.
Our Franchise Agreements
The following table sets forth the terms of the hotel franchise agreements for our two franchised hotels:
(1)
There are no renewal options under either franchise agreement.
We recorded $1.9 million, $2.8 million and $2.7 million of franchise fees during the fiscal years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.
Our Ground Lease Agreements
Four of our hotels are subject to ground lease agreements that cover all of the land underlying the respective hotel:
•
The Bethesda Marriott Suites hotel is subject to a ground lease that runs until 2087. There are no renewal options.
•
The Courtyard Manhattan/Fifth Avenue is subject to a ground lease that runs until 2085, inclusive of one 49-year renewal option.
•
The Salt Lake City Marriott Downtown is subject to two ground leases: one ground lease covers the land under the hotel and the other ground lease covers the portion of the hotel that extends into the City Creek Project. The term of the ground lease covering the land under the hotel runs through 2056, inclusive of our renewal options, and the term of the ground lease covering the extension runs through 2017. In 2009, we acquired a 21% interest in the land under the hotel for approximately $0.9 million.
•
The Westin Boston Waterfront is subject to a ground lease that runs until 2099. There are no renewal options.
In addition, two of the golf courses adjacent to two of our hotels are subject to ground lease agreements:
•
The golf course that is part of the Marriott Griffin Gate Resort is subject to a ground lease covering approximately 54 acres. The ground lease runs through 2033, inclusive of our renewal options. We have the right, beginning in 2013 and upon the expiration of any 5-year renewal term, to purchase the property covered by such ground lease for an amount ranging from $27,500 to $37,500 per acre, depending on which renewal term has expired. The ground lease also grants us the right to purchase the leased property upon a third party offer to purchase such property on the same terms and conditions as the third party offer. We are also the sub-sublessee under another minor ground lease of land adjacent to the golf course, with a term expiring in 2020.
•
The golf course that is part of the Oak Brook Hills Marriott Resort is subject to a ground lease covering approximately 110 acres. The ground lease runs through 2045 including renewal options.
Finally, a portion of the parking garage relating to the Renaissance Worthington is subject to three ground leases that cover, contiguously with each other, approximately one-fourth of the land on which the parking garage is constructed. Each of the ground leases has a term that runs through July 2067, inclusive of the three 15-year renewal options.
These ground leases generally require us to make rental payments (including a percentage of gross receipts as percentage rent with respect to the Courtyard Manhattan/Fifth Avenue ground lease) and payments for all, or in the case of the ground leases covering the Salt Lake City Marriott Downtown extension and a portion of the Marriott Griffin Gate Resort golf course, our tenant’s share of, charges, costs, expenses,
assessments and liabilities, including real property taxes and utilities. Furthermore, these ground leases generally require us to obtain and maintain insurance covering the subject property.
The following table reflects the annual base rents of our ground leases:
(1)
These terms assume our exercise of all renewal options.
(2)
Represents rent for the year ended December 31, 2009. Rent will increase annually by 5.5%.
(3)
The ground lease term is 49 years. We have the right to renew the ground lease for an additional 49 year term on the same terms then applicable to the ground lease.
(4)
The total annual rent includes the fixed rent noted in the table plus a percentage rent equal to 5% of gross receipts for each lease year, but only to the extent that 5% of gross receipts exceeds the minimum fixed rent in such lease year. There was no such percentage rent earned during the year ended December 31, 2009.
(5)
Total annual rent under the ground lease is capped at 2.5% of hotel gross revenues during the initial 30 years of the ground lease.
(6)
We have the right to extend the term of this lease for two consecutive renewal terms of ten years each with rent at then market value.
Subject to certain limitations, an assignment of the ground leases covering the Courtyard Manhattan/Fifth Avenue, a portion of the Marriott Griffin Gate Resort golf course and the Oak Brook Hills Marriott Resort golf course do not require the consent of the ground lessor. With respect to the ground leases covering the Salt Lake City Marriott Downtown hotel and extension, Bethesda Marriott Suites and Westin Boston Waterfront, any proposed assignment of our leasehold interest as ground lessee under the ground lease requires the consent of the applicable ground lessor. As a result, we may not be able to sell, assign, transfer or convey our ground lessee’s interest in any such property in the future absent the consent of the ground lessor, even if such transaction may be in the best interests of our stockholders.
Debt
As of December 31, 2009, we had approximately $786.8 million of outstanding debt. The following table sets forth our debt obligations on our hotels.
(1)
The debt has a five-year interest only period that commenced in May 2006. After the expiration of that period, the debt will amortize based on a thirty-year schedule.
(2)
The debt has a five-year interest only period that commenced in December 2005. After the expiration of that period, the debt will amortize based on a thirty-year schedule.
(3)
The debt had a four-year interest only period that expired in July 2009. The debt is currently amortizing based on a thirty-year schedule.
(4)
The debt had a 3.5 year interest only period that expired in October 2009. The debt is currently amortizing based on a thirty-year schedule.
(5)
The senior unsecured credit facility matures in February 2011. Subject to certain conditions, including being in compliance with all financial covenants, we have a one-year extension option that will extend the maturity to 2012.
Item 3.