ITEM 2.
DESCRIPTION OF PROPERTY
Location and Characteristics
Our headquarters are located at 1600 Stout Street Suite 2000 Denver, Colorado, 80202. The lease for this office space of approximately 12,400 square feet has a term expiring February, 2013. The annual rent is approximately $0.2 million with certain adjustments for inflation and expenses.
Currently, we own property in Colorado, where we have drilled five wells on our Buckskin Mesa property, and Australia, where we have drilled one well on our property in the Northern Territory, and in Montana, where we hold a land position in the Bear Creek area. The wells on these properties have not yet commenced oil and gas production. As of September 30, 2008, we owned working interests in eight additional natural gas wells in Colorado which are operated by EnCana Oil & Gas USA (“EnCana”). These interests were sold to a third party in December 2008. In November 2007, we sold 66,000 net acres of land and two wells in Montana and 173,738 acres of land in Utah and on May 30, 2008, we sold 605 net acres, 16 wells which had been drilled but not completed or connected to a pipeline, and rights to participate in an additional 8 wells in the Southern Piceance Basin in Colorado.
Piceance Basin, Colorado Properties
Buckskin Mesa Project. We own approximately 20,000 net acres of leasehold in Rio Blanco County, Colorado, subject to certain payment and work commitments, including five wells that were drilled (but not completed) during 2006-2007 calendar years, and six shut-in gas wells drilled by our predecessor in interest. During this fiscal year, we expanded our operational infrastructure for the project area, and spud and drilled the fifth of the five obligation exploratory wells specified in the original acquisition agreement with Daniels Petroleum Company (“DPC”), as amended (the “DPC Agreement”). Each of the five wells encountered greater than five hundred feet of net pay within the Cretaceous Mesa Verde Group, and each was cased in preparation for testing and completion. In conjunction with Clear Creek Energy Services, we continued working on the design and development of an expandable gathering system and primary production facility to allow for the handling and movement of a minimum of 15 million cubic feet of gas per day.
As of September 30, 2008, we had drilled five wells, awaiting completion and installation of the gathering system. At the end of the first calendar quarter of 2008, we extended and subsequently paid $0.5 million in penalties for three wells that were required to be drilled that quarter by agreeing to pay the $1.5 million fee, plus a $1.0 million additional payment as consideration for the extension. These amounts were paid on April 28, 2008, thereby reducing the total number of wells we were committed to drill for the remainder of calendar year 2008 to 13. Prior to June 30, 2008 (the due date for commencing the next four wells), we determined that we could not obtain the materials necessary to commence such operations by June 30, and we provided written notice of such force majeure condition to DPC. We were otherwise prepared to comply with all obligations regarding the referenced commitment. DPC objected to the notice. On June 30, 2008, we filed an action in Denver District Court requesting the court to issue a declaratory judgment concerning this dispute (the “Daniels Litigation”). On September 10, 2008, we entered into an amendment to the original agreement with DPC (the “Amendment”), which included a settlement of the Daniels Litigation. Under the Amendment, we paid $0.5 million for each of the four wells scheduled to be drilled by June 30, 2008, and we paid an additional $1.5 million on January 9, 2009, as required under the Amendment. Further, we are required to drill four wells by July 31, 2009, five additional wells
by December 31, 2009, and eleven additional wells by December 31, 2010. If we do not satisfy these drilling requirements, our agreement with DPC requires that we pay DPC $0.5 million for each undrilled well on the last day of the applicable period.
As part of the settlement of the Daniels Litigation, PetroHunter and Daniels agreed to extend the date for commencing the first well in Buckskin Mesa to July 31, 2009, and to increase the total minimum number of obligation wells to 20, through December 2010. PetroHunter and Falcon closed the first phase of their agreement (announced August 25, 2008) on November 10, 2008, under which PetroHunter has begun testing and completion operations on two of the five wells, which PetroHunter previously drilled but did not complete in Buckskin Mesa.
PetroHunter is moving forward on the Buckskin Mesa gas gathering system. Under PetroHunter’s agreement with CCES Piceance Partners I, LLC (“Clear Creek”), PetroHunter and Clear Creek have begun ordering all necessary materials for construction of the Buckskin Mesa gathering facilities.
Logs from the five wells which PetroHunter drilled in this area in 2007 indicate an average of 500 to 600 feet of pay. The primary objective in these wells is the Williams Fork formation, while the secondary objectives are the Sego, Cozzette, and Corcoran formations, members of the Iles formation, which are below the Williams Fork.
The Company recently initiated fracture stimulation operations on the Lake 16-21 and Lake 6-22 wells. Flow testing operations are continuing and have recovered hydrocarbons from both wells. PetroHunter will continue its completion and testing program on the Lake 16-21 and Lake 6-22 wells in the remaining intervals over the first and second quarters of our next fiscal year.
Piceance II Project. As of September 30, 2008, we owned interests within the Piceance II Project area in one undeveloped lease and an undivided 50% working interest in eight producing wells operated by EnCana Oil & Gas (USA), Inc. (“EnCana”), all in Garfield County, Colorado, and which were sold to a third party on December 30, 2008.
Effective October 1, 2007, we entered into a trade by which we exchanged our 40 net acre leasehold interest in certain lands located in Sections 16, 17, 20 and 21 of Township 7 South, Range 95 West (along with 0.35 net under 19 gross wells) for 40 net acres of leasehold covering the 40 acre parcel located in Section 22 of Township 7 South, Range 95 West adjacent to the Furr leased lands (along with two net under two gross wells). The trade also included our acquisition of a new lease dated December 10, 2007, covering the remaining 50% of the balance of the lands located in said Section 22 to which 10 of the 14 Furr area wells were attributable.
On May 30, 2008, we completed the sale of 605 net acres of land, 16 wells which had been drilled but not completed or connected to a pipeline and rights to participate in an additional 8 wells to Laramie Energy II, LLC. Additionally, as of June 30, 2008, as part of this transaction, we held $0.8 million in escrow relating to a dispute between us and the lessor of 435 acres of land in the Southern Piceance in which the lessor of this land claims that the lease will be terminated in conjunction with the Laramie transaction. On August 1, 2008, we transferred the $0.8 million in escrow back to Laramie and retained the 435 acres of land relating to the escrowed amount.
Plan of Operations. In fiscal 2009, we will focus on completing the five wells drilled in 2006-2007, and connect them to the gathering system, followed by drilling nine additional obligation wells, which must be commenced by December 31, 2009. Completion of the gathering system and central facility for the Buckskin Mesa Project will also enable us to recomplete and hook-up one or more of the six additional shut-in gas wells acquired with the properties in 2006.
Extensive regulatory compliance work has been initiated to facilitate our asset development plan, and some title issues are being addressed in connection with the drilling program for the fiscal year 2009. In summary, execution of the plan for these assets will optimally yield the drilling of not less than nine new exploratory wells in the Buckskin Mesa Prospect, and the completion or recompletion of as many as six wells in the Buckskin Mesa Prospect during fiscal year 2009.
Australia Properties
Beetaloo Basin Project. The Beetaloo Basin property in the Northern Territory of Australia currently consists of approximately 7.0 million net contiguous acres. Sweetpea now owns an undivided 50% working interest in the existing four exploration permits that cover this acreage following the sale of the other undivided 50% working interest to Falcon Oil & Gas Australia, Ltd., effective September 30, 2008.
Located about 600 kilometers south of Darwin, the Beetaloo Basin is a large basin, comparable in size to the Williston Basin in the U.S. or the entire southern North Sea basin. Structurally it has been viewed as a relatively simple intracratonic, passive margin basin, with minor extension (strike-slip), filled with sediments ranging from Cambrian to Mesoproterozoic rocks. However, interpretation of 2-D seismic data acquired by us in 2006 requires modification of the structural and tectonic history of the basin. The broad, low relief structures previously recognized in the basin, probably related to strike-slip movement, represent only a portion of its history. Significant and possibly multiple compressional events are observed in the basin. Ongoing geophysical evaluation has identified a more recent compressional history along the western margin of the basin resulting in a series of westerly verging, imbricate thrust faults. All identified structures are untested and prospective.
The basin has many thousands of meters of sediments, but the reservoirs of interest to us are within 4,000 meters of the surface, most less than 3,000 meters. The sedimentary rocks include thick (hundreds of meters), rich source rocks, namely the Velkerri Shale with Total Organic Carbon (“TOC”) contents as high as 12% and the Kyalla Shale with typical TOC contents of 2-3%. There are also a number of sandstone reservoirs interbedded with the rich source rocks. These formations, from stratigraphically youngest to oldest, include the Cambrian Bukalara Sandstone, and the Neoproterozoic Hayfield, Jamison, Moroak, and Bessie Creek sandstones. A number of even deeper sandstones are expected to be very tight and are viewed as not prospective in the single well where they were tested east of the Basin.
Three primary plays have been recognized within the basin. The first is a conventional structural, shallow sweet oil play of 35° API gravity. The Bukalara, Hayfield, Jamison, and Moroak sands (and perhaps the Bessie Creek sand along the western margin) have potential for oil and gas accumulations in trapped and sealed geometries. Most of the eleven previous wells drilled within the basin had oil and gas shows, and the Jamison No. 1 well tested oil on a Drill Stem Test. Detailed petrophysical analyses have been performed on all wells and have identified significant potential in some of these tests.
The second play is an unconventional fractured shale play within the Kyalla and Velkerri formations, not unlike the Barnett Shale play in Texas, although the Barnett Shale is of Paleozoic age and the Velkerri is older, being of the Proterozoic age. It is unknown whether the hydrocarbons will be gas or oil (or possibly both) for this exploration target; however, the Barnett Shale model and algorithms in our petrophysical analyses of these shales suggest they are viable targets. The Barnett Shale is a Paleozoic (Mississippian) black shale in Texas that ranges from a few feet to over 1,000 feet but is generally considered most favorable where the Barnett is 300 feet or more and is thermally mature with vitrinite reflectance values greater than 1.1% (Ro≥1.1) 400 feet thick and has TOC of between 1-5 weight percentage averaging between 2.5% and 3.5%. Barnett wells are typically stimulated to induce fracturing or enhance fracturing. The Barnett where it is the thermal maturity window of a vitrinite reflectance of 1.1 or above is considered to be in the gas window and thus prospective. The Velkerri Shale in the Beetaloo Basin is up to 2438 feet (800 meters) thick, but the prospective portion of the Velkerri where TOCs range from 4 to 12% commonly in the 4-7% range in a 140 meter interval (or about 425 feet). The Velkerri Shale which is PreCambrian (approximately 1.4 billion years old) is in the gas window throughout much of the Beetaloo Basin with equivalent thermal maturity values of 1.1 or higher. It should be noted that a geochemical equivalency was developed to allow comparison of the thermal maturity levels to standard vitrinite reflectance levels. Thus, the Velkerri and Barnett are analogous in thickness, thermal maturity where prospective for gas, and TOC. The Kyalla Shale is also PreCambrian (Proterozoic) in age and can reach thicknesses in the subsurface up to 800 meters in the Beetaloo Basin. Approximately 115 meters (350 feet) of prospective interval for both oil and gas although TOC is somewhat lower ranging from about 1.5-8% although mostly in the 2-4% range. The upper part of the Kyalla is in the oil window (greater than .7% equivalent vitrinite reflectance) and the lower part of the Kyalla is in the gas window (greater than 1.1% equivalent vitrinite reflectance. Both Kyalla and Velkerri shales are fractured as evidenced cores taken in wells in the basin and observed on well logs. For example, a Formation Micro Imager Log in the Kyalla demonstrates considerable fracturing and this fracturing extends throughout most horizons encountered in a recent
test, the Shenandoah #1 complete with hydrocarbon (both oil and gas) shows. For these reasons we consider the Kyalla and Velkerri Shales to be analogous to the Barnett Shale.
Finally, the Moroak and Bessie Creek sandstones offer a Basin Centered Gas Accumulation (BCGA) play at the center of the basin. It is an unconventional resource play characterized by a lack of a gas/water contact. Petrophysical analyses of several wells previously drilled in the basin demonstrate the presence of a BCGA in the basin.
We spudded the Sweetpea Shenandoah No. 1 well on July 31, 2007 and drilled to 4,724 feet. Intermediate casing was run on September 15, 2007 and the well was then suspended with an intention to deepen the well to a depth of 9,580 feet.
Because of its proximity and geological similarity to the Balmain No. 1 well, we regard this well as a twin to the Balmain No. 1 well that was drilled by an unrelated third party in 1992. The original plan to drill the Shenandoah No. 1 well under-balanced with air was modified due to encountering a shallow-sand formation that produced excessive water. The well was drilled with air along with water and mud. Oil and gas hydrocarbon shows in the Hayfield Formation and Kyalla Shale were confirmed. The mudlog exhibits gas shows and fluorescence starting at about 1,900 feet, in the Hayfield Formation, and continuing through to present depth of 4,550 feet. Over 700 feet of hydrocarbon shows have been encountered. Geologically, the Shenandoah No. 1 well has matched its prognosis and the drilling results correlate with the Balmain No. 1 well. In 2008, the Company engaged NuTech Energy Alliance to further analyze the logs from the Well, and to run a shale model, using recent North American oil productive fractured shale analogs. The preliminary results of the NuTech analysis for shales at approximately 3,000-foot depth indicate an estimated initial production rate of several hundred barrels a day (assuming a horizontal well), and a 3-year recovery of 70,000 barrels per well.
To date, seven drilling locations have been identified based on extensive geological and geophysical analysis. These locations have been cleared through the Northern Land Council, responsible for consulting with and representing traditional landowners and other Aborigines with an interest in land. Final drilling approval was received in May 2007, and these locations have been staked and will be formally surveyed. The preparation of drilling pads and access lines commenced the last week of May 2007 and continued into June 2007. We are attempting to obtain drilling locations beyond the initial seven locations.
From July through November of 2006, 686 kilometers of new 2-D seismic data were acquired throughout the Beetaloo Basin. Additionally, 1,000 kilometers of previously acquired 2-D seismic data were reprocessed. Along, with the other existing 1,500 kilometers of 2-D seismic data that have not been reprocessed, geologic structure maps were generated for the basin.
The exploration drilling program for fiscal 2009 will test several play concepts within the basin. Hydrocarbon potential exists in shallow, conventional structures (in the form of oil), and in deeper unconventional reservoirs, including fractured shales and basin centered gas accumulations. The unconventional plays may be gas and/or oil. All of the exploration wells are planned to reach a total depth in the Bessie Creek Sandstone formation. The deepest penetration is expected to be 3,000 meters.
Northwest Shelf Project. Effective February 19, 2007, the Commonwealth of Australia granted to Sweetpea an exploration permit in the shallow, offshore waters of Western Australia. The permit, WA-393-P, has a six-year term and encompasses almost 20,000 acres. Geophysical data across the permit from public sources has been acquired and has been analyzed. We have committed to an exploration program with geological and geophysical data acquisition in the first two years with a third year drilling commitment and additional wells to be drilled in the subsequent three year period depending upon the results of the initial well.
Plan of Operations. In Australia, we plan to explore and develop portions of our undivided 50% working interest in the four exploration permits that comprise the 7.0 million net acres of the project area in the Northern Territory of Australia (Beetaloo Basin). We plan to resume drilling of the Shenandoah No. 1 well. We are currently committed to drill eight additional wells on our four permits and complete a potential delineation seismic program, projected to cost a minimum of $37.0 million ($18.5 million for our 50% working interest). In calendar year 2009, we may farm-out a portion of our working interest in the acreage to third parties.
Other Assets
Bear Creek, Montana. On September 30, 2008, we owned slightly greater than 15,990 net acres of leasehold in a combination deeper conventional gas/coalbed methane project area located in southern Montana, east of the Fiddler Creek heavy oil assets. The primary deep objectives are incised Greybull valley-fill sequences along the Nye-Bowler lineament, and the Frontier sandstone, while the shallow Ft. Union provides an opportunity to produce methane from multiple thin coal lenses at intervals from 500 to 3,000 feet. No activity was conducted in this project area during the fiscal year, nor are any funds budgeted to evaluation of this asset in the coming year.
Oil and Gas Reserves
The following table sets forth the Company’s quantities of domestic proved reserves, for the years ended September 30, 2008, and 2007 as estimated by independent petroleum engineers Gustavson Associates, LLC. The table summarizes our domestic proved reserves, the estimated future net revenues from these reserves and the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows attributable thereto at September 30, 2008 and 2007. In accordance with PetroHunter’s planning and budgeting cycle, proved undeveloped reserves included in this table include only economic locations that are forecast to be on production before October 1, 2013. As of September 30, 2008, proved undeveloped reserves represent 83.24% of our total proved reserves. In December 2008, we sold our working interest in our proved developed reserves to a third party for $2.3 million.
The following table is a summary of our oil and gas reserves (in thousands, except per unit data):
Production Volumes, Average Sales Prices and Average Production Costs
The following table sets forth certain information regarding our net production of oil and natural gas, and certain price and cost information for our fiscal years ended September 30, 2008, 2007 and 2006.
(a)
lease operating expense includes monthly compressor rental of $0.1 million
(b)
All information relates to the US operations as no drilling or production occurred in Australia during 2008.
Productive Wells
The following table summarizes information at September 30, 2008, relating to the productive wells in which we owned a working interest as of that date. Productive wells consist of producing wells and wells capable of production, but specifically exclude wells drilled and cased during the fiscal year that have yet to be tested for completion. Gross wells are the total number of producing wells in which we have an interest, and net wells are the sum of our fractional working interests in the gross wells.
Oil and Gas Drilling Activities
During the fiscal year ended September 30, 2008, our drilling activities were limited to Colorado and Australia. We drilled, or participated in the drilling of a total of 2 gross wells and 2 net wells categorized as follows: the Lake 6-22 well in the Buckskin Mesa Project, and the Shenandoah #1 well in the Beetaloo Basin Project. During 2008, we drilled no dry exploratory wells and no development wells.
During the fiscal year ended September 30, 2007, our drilling activities were limited to Colorado and Australia. We drilled, or participated in the drilling of a total of 39 gross wells and 14.46 net wells categorized as follows: (i) 2.21 net wells under 21 gross wells drilled, completed and turned down-line to production; and (ii) 12.25 net wells under 18 gross wells drilled and cased, but not completed for production. In addition, the Company acquired during the year six net under six gross producing wells in Colorado that are shut-in awaiting a tie-in to the market, and drilled one net under one gross exploratory well in Australia that is currently suspended. During 2007, we drilled no dry exploratory wells and no development wells.
During the fiscal year ended September 30, 2006, our drilling activities were limited to Colorado; we drilled, or participated in the drilling of six gross exploratory wells and 2.14 net exploratory wells with no dry exploratory wells, and we acquired two gross and net oil wells. We did not drill development wells during 2006.
Oil and Gas Interests
As of September 30, 2008, we owned interests in the following developed and undeveloped acreage positions. Undeveloped acreage refers to acreage that has not been placed in producing units.
Impairment of Oil and Gas Properties
Costs capitalized for properties accounted for under the full cost method of accounting are subjected to a ceiling test limitation to the amount of costs included in the cost pool by geographic cost center. Costs of oil and gas properties may not exceed the ceiling which is an amount equal to the present value, discounted at 10%, of the estimated future net cash flows from proved oil and gas reserves plus the cost, or estimated fair market value, if lower, of unproved properties. Should capitalized costs exceed this ceiling, an impairment is recognized. During 2007, we recorded an impairment expense in the amount of $24.1 million, representing the excess of capitalized costs over the ceiling, as calculated in accordance with these full cost rules. During 2008 we recorded an impairment of $30.8 million. Current year impairment was due to decreases in natural gas prices from our third quarter ended June 30, 2008 of $10.51 per Mcf, to $4.96 per Mcf as of September 30, 2008.
Depreciation, Depletion, Amortization and Accretion
Depreciation, depletion, amortization and accretion expense (“DD&A”) was $1.2 million in 2008 and $1.2 million in 2007.
ITEM 3.