ITEM 2.
DESCRIPTION OF PROPERTY
Piceance Basin, Colorado Properties
Buckskin Mesa Project. We own approximately 20,000 net acres of leasehold in Rio Blanco County, Colorado, subject to certain payment and work commitments, including six shut-in gas wells. During this fiscal year, we created a significant operational infrastructure for the project area, and spud and drilled four of the five obligation exploratory wells specified in the original acquisition agreement with Daniels Petroleum Company, as amended, (the “DPC Agreement”). Each of the wells encountered greater than five hundred feet of net pay within the Cretaceous Mesa Verde Group, and each was cased in preparation for testing and completion. In conjunction with Clear Creek Energy Services, we began the design and development of an expandable gathering system and primary production facility to allow for the handling and movement of a minimum of 15 million cubic feet of gas per day. In November 2007, we spudded the final obligation well under the DPC Agreement.
We also modified certain of our financial and work obligations and commitments by amendment to the DPC Agreement. The amendments allowed us to defer portions of payments due under the DPC Agreement, and modify parts of our original work commitment in exchange for a 2008 drilling commitment consisting of sixteen new exploratory wells.
Piceance II Project. As of the end of the fiscal year, we owned interests within the Piceance II Project area in 27 producing non-operated wells, and 16 non-producing operated wells that were drilled, cased and shut-in waiting on completion and hook-up to existing pipeline infrastructure through installation of new gathering lines. The primary pay in these wells consisted of stacked sands in the fluvial Williams Fork formation with production resulting from frac-stimulation of perforations in multiple lenticular sand bodies throughout the interval. Operational delays, particularly with regard to completion of our non-producing operated wells, were caused by (i) regulatory requirements to establish well spacing; (ii) regulatory requirements for well density within designated spacing units; (iii) resolution of title and ownership issues; (iv) dedication issues under existing contracts; and (v) timing to negotiate and enter into new gathering agreements covering our undedicated leasehold.
During the fiscal year, we were successful in respacing the lands covering our leasehold and increasing the well density for each of the revised spacing units so that our working interests in the Furr area wells located in Sections 15 and 22 of Township 7 South, Range 95 West, were consolidated and increased from 13% to 100% in Section 15, and from 16% to 50% in the portion of the Section 22 lands leased in the Furr area. At September 30, 2007, although we paid 100% of the costs to drill the Furr area wells, our record title working interest in them was as follows: (i) 100% in the 2 wells located in Section 15; (ii) 50% in the 10 wells located on lands leased by Furr; and (iii) 0% in the 2 wells located on lands owned by a third party adjacent to the Furr lands.
Effective October 1, 2007, we entered into a trade by which we were able to exchange our 40 net acre leasehold interest in certain lands located in Sections 16, 17, 20 and 21 of Township 7 South, Range 95 West (along with 0.35 net under 19 gross wells) for 40 net acres of leasehold covering the 40 acre parcel located in Section 22 of Township 7 South, Range 95 West adjacent to the Furr leased lands (along with two net under two gross wells). The trade also included our acquisition of a new lease dated December 10, 2007, covering the remaining 50% of the balance of the lands located in said Section 22 to which 10 of the 14 Furr area wells were attributable.
Prior to the end of the fiscal year, we contacted the third party gas gatherer to whom one-half of the gas reserves attributable to the Section 22 portion of the Furr area were dedicated to propose a gathering route. The proposed gathering route has been identified and staked, and is awaiting survey by the gas gatherer. We anticipate completion of the formal gathering agreement and installation of the Furr area gathering system as part of our 2008 plan of operation.
As of September 30, 2007, we had drilled and cased two operated wells in the Reppo-Wissler/Jolley area. Although we paid 100% of the costs to drill the Reppo-Wissler/Jolley area wells, our record title working interest in them is 63%. We are currently negotiating an exchange that will result in the Company owning the remaining 38% working interest in these properties. Should an exchange fail to occur, we will either purchase, farm-in or force pool this third party interest.
South Bronco Project. On or about January 29, 2007, we advised the party from whom the project had been acquired of our intent to relinquish the project. Our drilling obligations were terminated and all rights to the underlying leasehold and property were reassigned to the seller.
Sugarloaf Project. On November 28, 2006, we entered into a purchase and sale agreement with Maralex Resources, Inc. and Adelante Oil & Gas, LLC (the “Maralex Agreement”) (collectively “Maralex”) for the acquisition and development of 2,000 net acres in the Jack’s Pocket Prospect in Garfield County, Colorado, including a commitment to drill four wells in the prospect before the end of fiscal year 2008. An initial payment of $0.1 million was made upon execution of the Maralex Agreement. The remaining cash in the amount of $2.9 million and transfer of 2.4 million shares of our common stock was due on January 15, 2007. We amended the Maralex Agreement on several occasions, amending payment dates, issuing an additional 5.6 million shares of our common stock to Maralex and increasing the cash to be paid by $0.3 million. On June 29, 2007, Maralex notified the Company it was in default under the terms of the Maralex Agreement, as amended. Consequently, by the terms of the Maralex Agreement, the Company was required to pay Maralex an amount equal to 5% of the outstanding payable for each 20 days past due. As of September 30, 2007, the Company has reflected an accrued liability of $0.4 million with a corresponding amount in interest expense. If the Company failed to make payment of the remaining balance by August 28, 2007, Maralex, at its option, could return up to 80% of the previously issued shares of the Company’s common stock, and the Company would reassign to Maralex all leases acquired under the Maralex Agreement.
As of September 30, 2007, the balance due to Maralex is $1.8 million and is reflected as Contract payable - oil and gas properties in the consolidated balance sheet. On December 1, 2007, the Company paid Maralex $0.3 million related to payments on this agreement.
On December 4, 2007, Maralex terminated the Maralex Agreement and notified the Company that they would return 6.4 million shares of common stock and consequently, the Company was relieved of its drilling commitments. In addition, costs incurred in excess of the carrying value of the common stock to be returned, have been included in costs to be amortized, and have been included in the ceiling test at the lower of cost or estimated fair value.
Gibson Gulch Project. In August and November 2006, we entered into two agreements with a third party owner (the “Farmor”) to farm-in and participate in the drilling and completion of six wells located in the Mamm Creek Field, Garfield County, Colorado, due east of our Piceance II wells and assets. On February 27, 2007, we received a notice of default from the party designated as operator under the joint operating agreement (the “Operator”) covering the subject lands for failure to make timely payment of the amounts due for the completion of the four wells for which we had paid our share of drilling costs, and for drilling or completion of the remaining two wells. On March 29, 2007, the Farmor notified us that it was exercising its right to terminate our agreement and resume ownership of the working interests in the six wells drilled on the farmout acreage. The Farmor refunded all amounts paid by us to drill the wells less interest incurred on the past due joint interest billings, and credited us for the remaining balance due to the Operator.
Plan of Operations. The focus for development of our Colorado properties in fiscal year 2008 will center on efforts to monetize and grow our asset base. Planned activities are driven by 1) the desire to complete and hook-up the 16 Piceance II Project wells and the four Buckskin Mesa Project wells drilled and cased during fiscal year 2007 (plus the fifth Buckskin Mesa well completed in the first quarter of 2008) 2) the commitments to drill 12 new exploratory wells in the Buckskin Mesa Project and 10 new exploratory wells in the Piceance II Project. Completion of the gathering system and central facility for the Buckskin Mesa Project will also allow for the recompletion and hook-up of the six additional shut-in gas wells acquired during 2006. Completing these wells will generate significant cash flow.
Significant progress has been made in finalizing the gathering and transportation agreements to allow for the completion (or recompletion) and production of the currently non-producing wells in our portfolio. Following the gatherer’s construction of the multiple low pressure gathering systems and the facilities needed to connect the existing Buckskin Mesa Project and Piceance II Project wells to market, we anticipate implementation of the capital program to stimulate the tight gas sand reservoirs within the wells for the initiation of production.
Extensive regulatory compliance work has been initiated to facilitate our asset development plan, and some leasehold consolidation and confirmation issues must be resolved prior to execution of the drilling program for the fiscal year 2008. In summary, execution of the plan for these assets will optimally yield the drilling of not less than 22 new exploratory wells (12 in the Buckskin Mesa Prospect and 10 in the Piceance II Prospect), and the completion or recompletion of as many as 49 wells (23 in the Buckskin Mesa Prospect and 26 in the Piceance II Prospect) during fiscal year 2008.
Australia Properties
Beetaloo Project. The Beetaloo Basin property in the Northern Territory of Australia currently consists of approximately 7.0 million net contiguous acres. Sweetpea owns the existing four permits that cover this acreage. We have applied to the Department of Primary Industry, Fisheries and Mines for additional permits covering an additional 1.5 million net acres that is contiguous to our currently-owned permits.
Located about 600 kilometers south of Darwin, the Beetaloo Basin is a large basin, comparable in size to the Williston Basin in the U.S. or the entire southern North Sea basin. Structurally it has been viewed as a relatively simple intracratonic, passive margin basin, with minor extension (strike-slip), filled with sediments ranging from Cambrian to Mesoproterozoic rocks. However, interpretation of 2-D seismic data acquired by us in 2006 requires modification of the structural and tectonic history of the basin. The broad, low relief structures previously recognized in the basin, probably related to strike-slip movement, represent only a portion of its history. Significant and possibly multiple compressional events are observed in the basin. Ongoing geophysical evaluation has identified a more recent compressional history along the western margin of the basin resulting in a series of westerly verging, imbricate thrust faults in contrast to easterly verging, thrust faults discovered in the central basin. All identified structures are untested and prospective.
The basin has many thousands of meters of sediments, but the reservoirs of interest to us are within 4,000 meters of the surface, most less than 3,000 meters. The sedimentary rocks include thick (hundreds of meters), rich source rocks, namely the Velkerri Shale with Total Organic Carbon (“TOC”) contents as high as 12% and the Kyalla Shale with typical TOC contents of 2-3%. There are also a number of sandstone reservoirs interbedded with the rich source rocks. These formations, from stratigraphically youngest to oldest, include the Cambrian Bukalara Sandstone, and the Neoproterozoic Jamison, Moroak, and Bessie Creek sandstones. A number of even deeper sandstones are expected to be very tight and were not prospective in the single well where they were tested east of the Basin.
Three primary plays have been recognized within the basin. The first is a conventional structural, shallow sweet oil play of 35° API gravity. The Bukalara, Jamison, and Moroak sands (and perhaps the Bessie Creek sand along the western margin) have potential for oil and gas accumulations in trapped and sealed geometries. Most of the eleven previous wells drilled within the basin had oil and gas shows, and the Jamison No. 1 well tested oil on a Drill Stem Test. Detailed petrophysical analyses have been performed on all wells and have identified significant potential in some of these tests.
The second play is an unconventional fractured shale play within the Kyalla and Velkerri formations, not unlike the Barnett Shale play in Texas. It is unknown whether the hydrocarbons will be gas or oil (or possibly both) for this exploration target; however, the Barnett Shale model and algorithms in our petrophysical analyses of these shales suggest they are viable targets.
Finally, the Moroak and Bessie Creek sandstones offer a Basin Centered Gas Accumulation (BCGA) play at the center of the basin. It is an unconventional resource play characterized by a lack of a gas/water contact. Petrophysical analyses of several wells previously drilled in the basin demonstrate the presence of a BCGA in the basin.
We spudded the Sweetpea Shenandoah No. 1 well on July 31, 2007 and drilled to 4,724 feet. Intermediate casing was run on September 15, 2007 and the well was then suspended with an intention to deepen the well to a depth of 9,580 feet.
Because of its proximity and geological similarity to the Balmain No. 1 well, the Company regards this well as a twin to the Balmain No. 1 well that was drilled by an unrelated third party in 1992. The original plan to drill the Shenandoah No. 1 well under-balanced with air was modified due to encountering a shallow-sand formation that produced excessive water. The well was drilled with air along with water and mud. Oil and gas hydrocarbon shows in the Hayfield Formation and Kyalla Shale were confirmed. The mudlog exhibits gas shows and fluorescence starting at about 1,900 feet, in the Hayfield Formation, and continuing through to present depth of 4,550 feet. Over 700 feet of hydrocarbon shows have been encountered. Geologically, the Shenandoah No. 1 well has matched its prognosis and the drilling results correlate with the Balmain No. 1 well.
To date, seven drilling locations have been identified based on extensive geological and geophysical analysis. These locations have been cleared through the Northern Land Council, responsible for consulting with and
representing traditional landowners and other Aborigines with an interest in land. Final drilling approval was received in May 2007, and these locations have been staked and will be formally surveyed. The preparation of drilling pads and access lines commenced the last week of May 2007 and continued into June 2007. We are attempting to obtain drilling locations beyond the initial seven locations.
From July through November of 2006, 686 kilometers of new 2-D seismic data were acquired throughout the Beetaloo Basin. Additionally, 1,000 kilometers of previously acquired 2-D seismic data were reprocessed. Along, with the other existing 1,500 kilometers of 2-D seismic data that have not been reprocessed, geologic structure maps were generated for the basin.
The exploration drilling program for 2008 will test several play concepts within the basin. Hydrocarbon potential exists in shallow, conventional structures (in the form of oil), and in deeper unconventional reservoirs, including fractured shales and basin centered gas accumulations. The unconventional plays may be gas and/or oil. All of the exploration wells are planned to reach a total depth in the Bessie Creek Sandstone formation. The deepest penetration is expected to be 3,000 meters.
Gippsland and Otway Project. On November 14, 2006, the Company and Lakes Oil N.L. (“Lakes Oil”) entered into an agreement (the “Lakes Agreement”) under which they would jointly develop Lakes Oil’s onshore petroleum prospects (focusing on unconventional gas resources) in the Gippsland and Otway Basins in Victoria, Australia. The arrangement was subject to various conditions precedent, including completion of satisfactory due diligence, and the satisfactory processing and retention of certain lease applications.
The Lakes Agreement expired pursuant to its terms, and the Company and Lakes Oil are conducting discussions to formally terminate the Lakes Agreement wherein we would receive $0.1 million in escrowed funds and both parties will fully waive and release each other from all further obligations and liabilities.
Northwest Shelf Project. Effective February 19, 2007, the Commonwealth of Australia granted to Sweetpea an exploration permit in the shallow, offshore waters of Western Australia. The permit, WA-393-P, has a six-year term and encompasses almost 20,000 acres. Geophysical data across the permit from public sources has been acquired and is being analyzed. We have committed to an exploration program with geological and geophysical data acquisition in the first two years with a third year drilling commitment and additional wells to be drilled in the subsequent three year period depending upon the results of the initial well.
Plan of Operations. In Australia we plan to explore and develop portions of the 7.0 million net acres of the project area in the Northern Territory of Australia (Beetaloo Basin). We anticipate that, over the next 12 months, we will incur approximately $22.0 to $30.0 million in costs related to drilling, well completion and a potential delineation seismic program. We plan to resume drilling of the Shenandoah No. 1 well and drill four additional wells. In calendar year 2008, we may farm-out a portion of the acreage to third parties who would drill one or more wells.
Heavy Oil Properties
As described in Item 1 above, these properties were sold to Pearl effective October 1, 2007. The following discussion applies to the period prior to the sale to Pearl.
Great Salt Lake, Utah. We owned 173,738 net mineral acres under lease (covered by approximately 78 leases) on two principal properties, the West Rozel Field and the Gunnison Wedge prospect, each located in the Great Salt Lake of Utah. Permitting was required to be completed on this project during 2007. One well was required to be drilled prior to the expiration date of the primary term under each lease. We negotiated an extension to the dates of the work commitments under the acquisition agreement between us and American under an amendment executed on July 31, 2007.
Fiddler Creek, Montana. We owned 23,324 net acres situated on three anticlines located in the northern portion of the Big Horn Basin, which extends from north central Wyoming into southern Montana. Our interests encompassed shut-in wells and leasehold interests in the Roscoe Dome, Dean Dome and Fiddler Creek project areas. These anticlines are large asymmetric anticlines with proven production from several Cretaceous horizons; i.e. the Upper Greybull Sandstone, the Lower Greybull Sandstone and the Pryor Conglomerate.
Promised Land, Montana. We owned 48,793 net acres in a resource play evaluating heavy oil reservoirs in the Jurassic Swift Formation and the Lower Cretaceous Bow Island and Sunburst sandstone reservoirs in north
central Montana. The Swift reservoirs were deposited in a shallow marine to estuarine depositional setting. The Swift sandstones are commonly oil saturated in the area, and most well tests report oil shows in the Swift. The reservoirs are up to 60 feet thick and composed of high quality sandstone, averaging about 20 percent porosity and permeabilities range up to one darcy. The oil gravities range from 10° to 22°API with viscosities of 1,500 centipoise to greater than 50,000 centipoise at 125°F.
Other Assets
Bear Creek, Montana. On September 30, 2007, we owned slightly greater than 14,700 net acres of leasehold in a combination deeper conventional gas/coalbed methane project area located in southern Montana, east of the Fiddler Creek heavy oil assets. The primary deep objectives are incised Greybull valley-fill sequences along the Nye-Bowler lineament, and the Frontier sandstone, while the shallow Ft. Union provides an opportunity to produce methane from multiple thin coal lenses at intervals from 500 to 3,000 feet. No activity was conducted in this project area during the fiscal year, nor are any funds budgeted to evaluation of this asset in the coming year.
Production and Prices
The following table sets forth information regarding net production of oil and natural gas, and certain price and cost information for fiscal years ended September 30, 2007 and 2006. We did not have any production during the fiscal year ended September 30, 2005.
Productive Wells
The following table summarizes information at September 30, 2007, relating to the productive wells in which we owned a working interest as of that date. Productive wells consist of producing wells and wells capable of production, but specifically exclude wells drilled and cased during the fiscal year that have yet to be tested for completion (for example, all of the operated wells drilled by the Company during 2007 have been cased in preparation for completion, but operations have not been initiated to allow these wells to be productive). Gross wells are the total number of producing wells in which we have an interest, and net wells are the sum of our fractional working interests in the gross wells.
(1)
As of October 1, 2007, we sold most of our interests in Utah and Montana.
Oil and Gas Drilling Activities
During the fiscal year ended September 30, 2007, our drilling activities were limited to Colorado and Australia. We drilled, or participated in the drilling of a total of 39 gross wells and 14.46 net wells categorized as follows: (i) 2.21 net wells under 21 gross wells drilled, completed and turned down-line to production; and (ii) 12.25 net wells under 18 gross wells drilled and cased, but not completed for production. In addition, the Company acquired during the year six net under six gross producing wells in Colorado that are shut-in awaiting a tie-in to the market, and drilled one net under one gross exploratory well in Australia that is currently suspended. During 2007, we drilled no dry exploratory wells and no development wells.
During the fiscal year ended September 30, 2006, our drilling activities were limited to Colorado; we drilled, or participated in the drilling of six gross exploratory wells and 2.14 net exploratory wells with no dry exploratory wells, and we acquired two gross and net oil wells. We did not drill development wells during 2006.
During the fiscal year ended September 30, 2005 we did not drill any wells.
Oil and Gas Interests
As of September 30, 2007, we owned interests in the following developed and undeveloped acreage positions. Undeveloped acreage refers to acreage that has not been placed in producing units.
Effective as of October 1, 2007, we sold most of our interests in Utah and Montana.
Office Space
On November 26, 2007, we entered into a lease agreement for new office space in Denver, Colorado. We will move office locations during the second quarter 2008.
ITEM 3.