ITEM 2. PROPERTY.
Description of Our Mineral Assets and Property Acquired as a Result of the 2004 Merger.
As contemplated in Industry Guide 7(b), our mineral claim property consists of three (3) patented mining claims located in the Tintic Mining District of Juab County, Utah, between a quarter and a half a mile from the city limits of Mammoth, Utah, approximately 90 miles south of Salt Lake City. The Mineral Claims can be accessed through the town of Mammoth, Utah.
There is an unpaved, dirt road that goes up to the property from the town of Mammoth.
There are no conditions to our ability to retain title to the property other than our annual obligation to pay minimal property taxes to the Juab County Treasurer.
The rock formation and mineralization of existing or potential economic significance is described in detail in the section below titled "Type of Property/ Exploration, Development and Production History."
The work completed on our Mineral Claims, including the current state of exploration of the property and its present, is set forth in detail in the PLAN OF OPERATION section below.
We have no equipment or other infrastructure facilities, including power than can be utilized on the property, other than what is indicated in the Plan of Operation section below. This section also details our planned future exploration costs.
Our mineral assets and property are without known reserves and our proposed program is exploratory in nature.
For a view of our property, we have attached, in two PDF files, an Index Map and a Property Location Map as exhibits to this document. These two maps show the actual location of our Mineral Claim properties.
Form of Ownership
Tintic-Nevada does not hold "unpatented" mining claims. (An unpatented mining claim is a parcel of property located on federal lands that the U.S. government continues to own, though it has granted the private party claimholder the right to explore and mine the claim.) Instead, we own patented mining claims. (A "patented" mining claim is land originally held as unpatented, to which the private-party claimholder has been conveyed fee simple title by the U.S. government, after meeting the federal patenting requirements.) The important distinction or difference in the type of mineral interest it represents is that the patent gives the claimholder full and complete ownership, outright, of the land on which the claim is located. In this case, however, a former officer and director named C. Chase Hoffman owns the surface rights. Such rights were conveyed to Mr. Hoffman in 1980 in consideration for as much as $30,000 that Mr. Hoffman had advanced the Company over the years. Mr. Hoffman also retains a 3% net smelter return royalty interest in the event of any mineral production on the property.
The Effect of Regulatory Changes on Holding Unpatented Mining Claims
The U.S. Bureau of Land Management (BLM) promulgated new regulations in 1997 regarding hard rock unpatented mining claims (see 43 CFR 3809). Compliance with the 1997 regulations is both time-consuming and costly. Therefore, we do NOT intend to purchase or locate any unpatented claims, but instead, to concentrate its exploration activities on its own privately-held land and perhaps on land that, at some point in the future, it may decide to acquire, including but not limited to a possible Utah state mineral leasehold of some kind. Management believes that these BLM regulations will have little or no effect on our activities.
Type of Property/ Exploration, Development and Production History
Our three (3) patented mineral claims are lode claims. (Such claims contain deposits of minerals, in this case, gold and zinc in solid rock. A placer claim, on the other hand, is a deposit of sand and gravel containing valuable minerals.)
Our mineral claim property, which our predecessor, Tintic-Utah owned since 1933, lies within the Central portion of the Main Tintic Mining District, Juab County, Utah, approximately 90 miles south of Salt Lake City. The property is bounded on the north and east by the Centennial Eureka, the Grand Central, and Mammoth mines, and on the south and west by the Empire Mines property. The property consists of three (3) patented lode mining or mineral claims known as the Emerald, Ruby and Diamond Lode Mining Claims. These claims embrace a portion of Sections 19 and 30, Township 10 South, Range 2 West and Sections 24 and 25, Township 10 South, Range 3 West, Salt Lake Base and Meridian, bearing Mineral Survey Number 188, and together designated as Lot No. 224, more particularly described in the patent recorded at Book 60, Page 406, of the records of Juab County, Utah. These properties comprise an area of approximately 44.43 acres. These claims cover an area 3,000 feet north-south and 550 to 900 feet east-west.
Structurally, these properties lie along the west flank of the northward plunging asymmetric trough of the Tintic syncline. Beds strike approximately due north and dip steeply to the east. Surface exposures show the predominant rock type to be Ajax Dolomite of Cambrian Age. The central portion of the property is cut by the trace of the northeast striking Emerald-Grand Central fault. The east-west striking Sioux-Ajax fault zone is inferred to cut through the property and could intersect the northeast structure within the boundaries of the property. Due to soil cover, their exact position cannot be readily determined.
The property is located on the outcrop of the Ajax limestone. This has been one of the most favorable ore-bearing formations of the Main Tintic Mining District.
Because of general geological conditions, our property has three favorable prospects. One is in deeper development in the northern part of the property; two, in a mineralized vein near the main shaft on the 1,000 level; and three, above the 600 level on the southern end of the property.
There are several prominent fissures in our property. Fissures north of the shaft show calcite and oxidized iron. This suggests possibilities for improved mineralization at depth. Close to the shaft an east-west cross fissure reportedly carries substantial values in lead from the 200 to 1,000 levels in workings presently inaccessible. This fissure should be prospected for intersections and at greater depth. South of the shaft are two main north-south fissures. One known as the Diamond fissure shows jasperoid quartz.
A spur line of the Union Pacific Railroad with loading ramps lies less than two miles to the northeast.
The property has been explored by numerous shallow shafts, surface workings, and a one and one-half compartment shaft sunk one thousand feet deep, with levels driven at the 400, 500, 600, 700 and 1,000 foot levels. This shaft is known as the Emerald Mine or Shaft. The Emerald Mine is the largest historic mine working on the Tintic Gold Mining Company's claims group. The shaft is located on the south end of the Emerald patented lode claim near the crest of a small ridge. The mine lies between the Grand Central and the Mammoth Mines. The 1100 foot level is developed from a winze on the 1000 foot mine level. Only a small amount of ore -- approximately 1,800 tons -- was historically removed from the Emerald Mine. The grade of this ore is not known.
The Emerald Shaft is about 1,900 feet south-southwest from the Grand Central Mine shaft and approximately 2,000 feet west of the Mammoth Mine glory hole. The Emerald Shaft is collared in the highly productive Ajax Formation which hosts the bulk of copper-gold mineralization in the district and lies on strike from the Grand Central mineralizations in the same unit. The Emerald Mine is presently inaccessible and the shaft collar is partially blocked with debris and mine timbers. Several additional small shafts, declines, and pits on the claim group explore surface exposures of silicification and weak mineralization. These workings are also in the highly productive Ajax Formation and may represent "leakage" of mineralization along faults from unexploited deposits developed at depth adjacent to the existing Emerald Mine underground workings.
It is not anticipated that the opening up or rehabilitation of the old workings will be attempted at the present time or at any future time. Any possible exploration will be in the nature of surface assay sampling or testing and, if sufficient evidence is obtained, exploratory drilling may be considered. In such event, we will be subject to regulation by the Utah Division of Oil, Gas and Mining (DOGM). It should be again noted that the potential for pursuing an extensive permitting process in order to further drill the property is dependent on the prices of gold and zinc.
The mineralization of interest is believed to be of the siliceous copper-gold-silver category. However, the possibility of this property attaining the status of a gold, zinc or silver producer will depend upon the results of any future exploration testing and drilling program engaged in by us. At the present time, this property has no known ore reserves. Accordingly, we cannot be considered a "development mining company." The objective of the proposed geological mapping and other work would be to determine what exploration program, if any, to pursue.
It should be noted that although smelting facilities have historically been located within at least seventy (70) miles of the property, management believes that it would be premature and perhaps misleading to discuss milling and smelting contracts with ore purchasers inasmuch as we not only need to conduct exploratory work but no ore has been discovered and thus, no development plan or program exists. There is no assurance that ores, if they exist and if developed, could ever be sold, let alone
sold for a profit.
As to our Claims' exploration, development or production history, if any, the extent of exploration or even development on our mineral claim properties is unknown. Management believes and is informed that approximately 1,800 tons of ore were once removed from our property. Our lack of precise knowledge as to what production or extraction occurred, when it occurred, what it sold for, what it was exactly, or was worth at the time it was extracted is understandable in that precious metals were first discovered in the Tintic Mining District area in 1870, over 135 years ago. Nonetheless, our property does contain the Emerald Shaft or Mine which existing data and other information suggests is at least 1,000 feet deep. There are also two other significant holes, shafts or "prospecting pits" on the property. As discussed further below in the PLAN OF OPERATION section and in order to devise and implement an exploration plan or program of some kind on our properties, we have commissioned and obtained a comprehensive geology report on our property.
Exploration and Rehabilitation Work
There has been no exploration or other mining-related activity of any kind on our properties since the 1930's and 1940's, except perhaps briefly before World War II. Only a limited amount of exploration or development work has been conducted on our properties since World War II. ("Exploration" is the work involved in searching for ore. "Development" is the construction and other work necessary to be carried out for the purpose of extracting ore from the deposit or mine.) In 1987, Centurion Mines Corporation ("Centurion"), later to be known and now known as Grand Central Mining Company, negotiated a five-year lease with Tintic-Utah to explore its patented mineral claims.
Centurion carried out mapping and limited assay and sampling work on our properties starting in 1987 and its successor, Grand Central Mining, terminated its lease with Tintic-Utah in 1997. The assay and sampling results it provided to us has been, in turn, provided to our consulting expert and geologist, Mr. Bruce Yeomans, who has incorporated that information into his reports to us. To the best knowledge, information and belief of current management, no more than 1,800 tons of ore production has ever come from our properties and we know little more than this. Prior to that time, our properties were inactive from World War II until 1987, when Centurion carried out limited exploration consisting mainly of geologic mapping and sampling. Centurion also performed some maintenance and rehabilitation work on our properties though it is not believed that Centurion did any maintenance or rehabilitation on the underground workings of the Emerald Mine. Centurion continued its activities through its successor until 1997. No additional work has been done on the properties since that time. Under Tintic-Utah's prior lease agreement with Centurion, Centurion was obligated to do a certain amount of assessment work every five (5) years. This was done and we possess limited copies of the assessment and sampling work carried out by Centurion and its successor.
Future Plans for Exploration.
To date, management has NOT applied for exploration permits for work on any of its patented mineral claims. However, it is possible, depending upon market conditions, that we may consider conducting geological mapping, geochemical sampling, and geophysical surveys, but only if sufficient funds are available for such purpose, and if all goes well and we have sufficient capital, to possibly file applications for permits that would permit exploratory sampling or drilling to be carried out. We currently lack the investment or working capital to carry out any type of drilling exploratory operations at this time. This will depend on sources of and the availability of a joint venture partner who would contribute funds for this purpose. It would also depend upon the prices of gold, zinc and silver. Accordingly, no assurance can be given that exploration will in fact be either undertaken or carried out.
As of the date of this document, none of our officers, directors, or major shareholders has had any preliminary contact or discussions with any specific business or financial opportunity, directly or indirectly, nor are there any present plans, proposals, arrangements or understandings regarding the possibility of an acquisition, exchange or other financing arrangement with any specific business opportunity, potential partner or other person. There are also no mineral claim properties, other than those we currently own and hold, that we are currently evaluating.
In order to be able to present a realistic exploration plan or program to a potential mineral exploration partner or venture capital partner or investor, we commissioned and obtained a comprehensive evaluation report in 2005. Among other things, this report identifies a work sequence to be undertaken in order to carry out a mineral exploration program. This report specifically identifies exploration targets on our Claims, a task that we believe will work as a positive inducement to prospective mineral
exploration partners interested in our claims inasmuch as this is something they will not be required to spend money on themselves.
Research and Exploration Activities.
Other than a comprehensive evaluation report we commissioned and obtained from our consulting geologist, a report which provides us with an exploration work sequence on our Claims, we have not incurred any material costs for research or exploration activities since our inception. We have only been in existence since March 8, 2004, and therefore our research and exploration costs to date have been minimal.
Compliance with Environmental Laws.
We do not believe that we will incur any material costs relating to efforts to comply with environmental laws or other governmental regulations. This is because, at this time, we do NOT have a specific exploration program that we intend to implement. In the event that we undertake a mining exploration program, we must comply with various federal, state and local provisions that regulate the discharge of materials into the environment and which further govern the conduct of mining activities for the protection of the environment. To our knowledge, we have been in full compliance with all applicable environmental regulations since our inception and we intend to continue to fully comply in 2009 and beyond.
To management's best knowledge, information and belief, we are neither listed on any known environmental cleanup roster, nor is our property listed on or within any "Superfund" site. In the summer of 2002, the federal Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) listed the Eureka, Utah, area (an area within the Tintic Mining District) as a Superfund site because it was concerned about possible lead contamination of Eureka, Utah, inhabitants. Nonetheless, our properties are located near another town, Mammoth, Utah. While we understand that a state agency has, within the few years, taken soil samples on or near the town of Mammoth, we have received no notice that the EPA or any corollary state agency intends to do any environmental clean-up or other work to or with any property located in or near the town of Mammoth, let alone our own properties. See the section below titled "Legal Proceedings."
In the event that we undertake a mining exploration program on our properties and, in order to fulfill environmental compliance obligations, we must be aware of and attend to the complex requirements of both state and federal laws encompassing matters affecting land, mineral rights and/or the surface under which mining exploration activities are proposed. Such compliance would likely materially affect our capital expenditures, earnings and competitive position in the following general areas:
1) surface impact, 2) water acquisition, 3) site access, 4) reclamation, 5) wildlife preservation, and 6) permit and license qualification. To date, compliance has not had a material financial effect or other impact on us because our activities have not had a material and significant impact on the environment.
In the event that we become active in exploring our properties, compliance with environmental regulations could substantially impact or drain whatever capital resources we would have. Such future compliance could include performing feasibility studies on the surface impact of our proposed operations; minimizing surface impact, water treatment and protection; reclamation activities including rehabilitation of various sites; and on-going efforts at alleviating the exploration impact on wildlife. Moreover, governmental agencies may require permits or bonds from year to year to ensure our compliance with applicable regulations.
During fiscal 2008, we did not engage in any activity that would have required us to obtain any permits or bonds; nor did any governmental agency cause us to expend any funds to comply with any material environmental regulation. Moreover, we do not anticipate that any reclamation bonding will be required of us during 2009, or in the reasonably foreseeable future.
We do NOT anticipate any material capital expenditures for environmental control facilities during fiscal 2009. The cost of future compliance affecting our mineral properties will depend upon the extent and type of exploration and testing that we decide to undertake or have the financing to undertake.
There can be no assurance, however, that we will be able to comply with all requirements imposed on any such future development, or that we will be able to economically operate or pursue exploration activities under existing or future regulatory
requirements.
Government Regulation/Obtaining Necessary Permits to Conduct Exploration Activities.
As we currently have no exploratory operations, we do not believe we are subject to governmental regulations, which may relate to our business.
At such time as we engage in exploration activities on our Claims, if we do (and no assurance can be given that we will), we must undergo an extensive state and federal permitting process. Operating and environmental permits will be required to be obtained from applicable regulatory bodies utilizing technical applications filed by us. Once we have obtained the necessary funding and financing to do so, we will identify external mining and geology consultants to assist us with preparing and filing permits with all applicable state and federal regulatory authorities.
The rules and regulations of the Utah Department of Oil, Gas and Mining (DOGM) are complex relative to obtaining a permit for exploration or for conducting small mineral extraction operations (defined as involving less than 5 acres of total disturbance). The process is essentially as follows: The applicant first files a permit application with DOGM and, pursuant to a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) by and among the various state and federal agencies having competing regulatory authority, the application is reviewed on a coordinated basis by DOGM, the federal Bureau of Land Management (BLM), the U.S. Forest Service (USFS) and the Department of Environmental Quality (DEQ). The applicant is notified of any deficiencies in his application and is generally requested to submit additional information. If all of these agencies pass off on the application, the applicant is given a permit. If the applicant seeks to conduct a large scale mineral extraction operation (defined as in excess of a 5 acre disturbance), the process is more complex, detailed and extensive. For example, the regulatory review then involves an assessment of technical adequacy of the applicant's plans and more extensive environmental concerns are involved such as potential contamination of ground water. Once DOGM gives tentative approval of a large scale mineral extraction operation, notice must be provided to adjacent land owners, the county zoning authority, the Resource Development Coordinating Council (RDCC), and newspapers for publication. Public hearings are then called and held. Even if approval is obtained, the applicant must then provide adequate reclamation surety documents to ensure adequate reclamation upon completion of operations. In addition to the foregoing, DOGM has recently been required to seek an historical and archeological consultation/clearance from the Utah Division of State History. DOGM notifies this agency that it has received a new exploration or mining notice application and the Division of State History notifies DOGM within 15 days (exploration or small mining notice) or 30 days (large mining notice) if they believe a formal survey of the proposed area should be conducted by the applicant. This process applies to both private and state-owned land. If the area involved is federal ground, we are informed that the federal government does its own archeological clearance during its own NEPA/EA review process.
The above permitting process is time consuming and expensive and we currently lack the resources and capital to initiate a permitting process relative to our Claims. At the same time, current management lacks the qualifications and other expertise necessary to engage in this process without the assistance of experts or mineral exploration company partners.
ITEM 3.