Item 2. Properties
Overview of terms
Cautionary Note to U.S. Investors: This section and other sections of this Annual Report on Form 10-K contain the terms “measured mineral resources,” “indicated mineral resources,” “inferred mineral resources,” “proven mineral reserves,” and “probable mineral reserves” as defined in accordance with NI 43-101. Please note the following regarding these terms:
“Proven mineral reserves” and “probable mineral reserves” - The definitions of proven and probable mineral reserves used in NI 43-101 differ from the definitions for “proven reserves” and “probable reserves” as found in SEC Industry Guide 7. However, based on statements from P&E Mining Consultants Inc. and Practical Mining LLC we have determined that the proven and probable reserves reflected in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are equivalent to the proven and probable reserves under SEC Industry Guide 7.
“Measured mineral resources” and “indicated mineral resources” - We advise U.S. investors that although these terms are recognized and required by Canadian regulations, these terms are not defined in SEC Industry Guide 7 and the SEC does not normally permit such terms to be used in reports and registration statements filed with the SEC. U.S. investors are cautioned not to assume that any part or all of the mineral deposits in these categories will ever be converted into reserves.
“Inferred mineral resources” - we advise U.S. investors that although this term is recognized by Canadian regulations, the SEC does not recognize it. “Inferred mineral resources” have a great amount of uncertainty as to their existence, and great uncertainty as to their economic and legal feasibility. It cannot be assumed that all or any part of an inferred mineral resource will ever be upgraded to a higher category. Under Canadian rules, estimates of inferred mineral resources may not form the basis of a feasibility study or prefeasibility study, except in rare cases. The SEC normally only permits an issuer to report mineralization that does not constitute “reserves” as in-place tonnage and grade without reference to unit measures. U.S. investors are cautioned not to assume that any part or all of an inferred mineral resource exists or is economically or legally minable.
See “Cautionary note to U.S. investors regarding estimates of measured, indicated and inferred resources and proven and probable reserves.”
General overview
We classify our mineral properties into three categories: Operating, Development, and Exploration. Operating properties are those in which we operate a producing mine with proven and probable reserves. Development properties, sometimes referred to as “projects”, are properties which are: 1) producing mineralized material but lack proven and probable reserves, 2) undergoing activities to determine if a positive mineral production decision can be made, or 3) incurring capital development expenditures, development and projects costs, and expenses to increase, define, or establish mineral reserves or estimates of mineralized material. Exploration properties are those not in the operation or development stage where we retain a significant or controlling interest or joint venture. Our exploration properties are located in Nevada, USA and Manitoba, Canada and over the last three years we have not completed any significant exploration or drilling work at such exploration properties, nor do we currently intend to do so in 2017, with the exception of Hollister.
The following table provides a summary of our properties as of and for the year ended December 31, 2016, each of which comprises its own reportable segment (see Note 20. Segment information to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements):
The locations of our mineral properties are shown below:
Operating properties
For a detailed discussion of our operating results and production data for Operating properties, see the Fire Creek, Midas, and True North sections included in Part II - Item 7 Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.
Fire Creek
General description
Fire Creek is a 100% owned, fully-permitted, underground gold mine and was acquired by Klondex in 1975. Fire Creek is located in north-central Nevada in Lander County approximately 16 miles south of a major highway (Interstate-80) near other large gold deposits and mines which are owned and operated by major mining companies. Fire Creek’s workforce is largely drawn from Elko, Nevada and Winnemucca, Nevada, both of which are served by a transcontinental railroad and have airports. Access to Fire Creek from Interstate-80 is by State Road 306, a good-quality road. Company-maintained mine and exploration roads provide access throughout the property. Fire Creek receives electrical power provided by NV Energy, a major Nevada power company. Ore mined at Fire Creek is trucked daily to the Midas milling facility for processing.
Fire Creek is a high-grade, epithermal vein deposit, and the land package covers approximately 19,000 acres (~31.5 square miles), consisting of approximately nil private patented claims and 347 unpatented mining claims. Our unpatented claims occupy public lands, administered by the United States Bureau of Land Management ("BLM"). Unpatented claims are governed by the laws and regulations of the U.S. federal government and the state of Nevada. Property taxes are paid annually to the county in which they are held. To maintain our unpatented claims, we must file a notice of intent to maintain the claims within the county they are located and pay the annual mineral claim maintenance fees to the BLM. Some of Fire Creek's claims are subject to royalties, including: Fire Creek Lands LLC 3.0% Net Smelter Return ("NSR"), McCarthy 4.0% NSR, and Pittington 2.5% NSR, some of which have been previously prepaid or advanced and are expected to be reduced for 2017 mining activities. Additionally, the Company may
incur royalty payments that have not been prepaid or advanced in 2017. There is no expiration date on the aforementioned royalties. The Company will also be subject to a 2.5% NSR to Franco-Nevada Corporation from all production commencing in 2019. There is no expiration date on the aforementioned royalty.
Infrastructure, development, and exploration
Fire Creek possesses an underground mine, related mine support infrastructure, mining equipment, and administrative buildings, all of which are in well-maintained, operating condition. During the year ended December 31, 2016, capital expenditures at Fire Creek totaled $23.8 million and 2017 capital expenditures are currently expected to approximate between $27 - $29 million. At December 31, 2016, the gross book cost of the Fire Creek’s mineral properties, plant and equipment totaled $51.4 million.
In 2016, we drilled approximately 280 surface and underground holes in support of exploration and production efforts, representing approximately 202,490 feet, with a focus on converting mineralized material to reserves, mineralized material growth, and discovering new mineralization. The drilling results obtained were also used to identify 2017 anticipated exploration drilling targets.
Geology
Fire Creek is located in Lander County, Nevada, and in the western half of the Northern Nevada Rift ("NNR") which is a mid-Miocene aged rifting event delineated by bimodal volcanic strata and distinguished by a prominent north-northwest trending aeromagnetic anomaly that extends approximately 300 miles south-southeastward from the Oregon-Nevada border.
The deposit is an epithermal deposit vertically-zoned within high-angle northwest striking structures and consists of low-sulfidation mineralization hosted in a mid-Miocene basalt package. Mineralization occurs in two habits: shallow structurally-controlled mineralization in variably altered Tertiary basalt and primarily native gold mineralization hosted in steeply dipping quartz-calcite veins or structures. A package of middle-Miocene basalt and basaltic andesite flows has been cut by high-angle normal faults related to both NNR and Basin and Range extension that form grabens and half-grabens which are the structural controls for mineralization in the district.
Midas
General description
We acquired the fully-permitted Midas mine and ore milling facility on February 11, 2014. It is located in Elko County in north-central Nevada, one mile from the town of Midas, Nevada. It lies about 58 miles east of Winnemucca on Nevada State Highway 789 from Interstate Highway I-80, and 80 miles from Battle Mountain driving west then north. Midas receives electrical power provided by NV Energy, a major Nevada power company.
Midas is a high-grade, epithermal vein deposit, and the land package covers approximately 30,000 acres (~46 square miles), which includes fee lands, federal unpatented mining claims, seven mining leases, BLM rights-of-way, general agreements, easements, and surface use agreements. Within the land package, there are 1,489 federal unpatented mining claims, of which 1,456 are owned and 33 are leased. Fee lands comprise approximately 2,985 acres of the land package which is a mix of surface-mineral rights and surface rights only. Our unpatented claims occupy public lands, administered by the BLM. Unpatented claims are governed by the laws and regulations of the U.S. federal government and the state of Nevada. Property taxes on fee lands are paid annually to the county in which they are held. To maintain our unpatented claims, we must file a notice of intent to maintain the claims within the county they are located and pay the annual mineral claim maintenance fees to the BLM. Certain of the Midas claims are subject to a royalty. Midas is also subject to a 2.5% NSR to Franco-Nevada Corporation from all production commencing in 2019.
Infrastructure, development, and exploration
Midas includes an underground mine, related mine support infrastructure, mining equipment, a Merrill-Crowe refining
facility, a milling circuit, and administrative buildings, all of which are in well-maintained, operating condition. During the year ended December 31, 2016, capital expenditures at Midas totaled $23.8 million and 2017 capital expenditures are currently expected to approximate between $15 - $17 million, which includes expected capital related to the mill. At December 31, 2016, the gross book cost of Midas’s mineral properties, plant and equipment totaled $115.0 million.
In 2016, we drilled approximately 148 surface and underground holes in support of exploration and production efforts, representing approximately 80,803 feet, with a focus on converting mineralized material to reserves, mineralized material growth, and discovering new mineralization. The drilling results obtained were also used to identify 2017 anticipated exploration drilling targets.
Processing facility
Ore from Fire Creek and Midas are processed at the Midas mill, which has a design capacity of 1,200 tons per day. Run-of-mine ore is crushed to 100% passing ½” in a conventional two-stage crushing circuit which utilizes a primary jaw crusher and a secondary cone crusher with the circuit closed by a double deck vibrating screen. The crushed product reports to the grinding circuit consisting of an 800 horsepower overflow ball mill and a 250 horsepower vert-mill. The circuit is closed using a bank of four (three operating, one standby) 10-inch cyclones. A portion of the cyclone underflow is sent to a gravity concentrator to remove coarse gold. The gravity concentrate is leached using an Acacia intense cyanidation unit with the gravity tail returned to the grinding circuit for further grinding. The ground product is thickened before being leached with cyanide for 72 hours in a series of eight leach tanks. The leached slurry reports to a conventional five-stage counter current decantation circuit with the overflow solution from the first thickener, together with the pregnant solution from the Acacia reactor, reporting to the Merrill-Crowe circuit where zinc dust is used to precipitate the precious metal from solution. The underflow from the fifth thickener is treated to eliminate the remaining cyanide and pumped to the tailings storage facility. Mercury is removed from the precipitate in a retort oven before being smelted and poured into doré bars. The bars are shipped off site for further refining by a third party.
Geology
Midas is located on the southeast flank of the Snowstorm Mountain range near the eastern margin of the NNR structural domain, and is hosted by a bimodal suite of volcanic rocks.
The Midas deposit consists of a series of steeply dipping, quartz-calcite-adularia mineralized veins hosted by volcanic and volcanoclastic rocks. Mineralization occurs as electrum and is intimately associated with selenide and sulfide minerals. It belongs to a suite of middle Miocene low-sulfidation epithermal mineralization systems associated with magmatism and faulting along the NNR. The mineralization model at Midas is a shallow, low-sulfidation, vertically- and laterally-zoned, epithermal gold-silver system. Rocks in the Midas district are
primarily ash flow, air-fall and lithic tuffs, felsic plugs, volcanoclastic sediments and gabbroic sills and dikes.
True North
General description
We acquired True North, which is our only material property located outside of Nevada, USA, in January 2016. True North is located adjacent to the township of Bissett, Canada on the north shore of Rice Lake in southeastern Manitoba, Canada, 190 miles northeast of the city of Winnipeg, Canada. Bissett can be accessed from Winnipeg via all-weather provincial highways. A small emergency gravel airstrip is located 12 miles east of Bissett. The adjacent Rice Lake serves as a base for float-equipped aircraft during the ice free months.
The True North land package covers approximately 40,257 hectares, and consists of claims, patents and a mineral lease. We hold 18 patented mining claims covering 296 hectares and 300 mining claims covering 39,195 hectares. We own 100% of 273 of the mining claims and own a mineral lease which covers 766 hectares and, subject to annual payments, expires April 1, 2034. We own 50% of the remaining 27 mining claims through a joint venture agreement with Greenbelt Gold Mines Inc.
Infrastructure, development, and exploration
True North includes an underground mine, related mine support infrastructure, housing camps, mining equipment, a flotation and carbon in pulp ("CIP") refining facility, a milling circuit, tailings facilities, and administrative buildings, all of which are in well-maintained, operating condition. During the year ended December 31, 2016, capital expenditures and Development and projects costs at True North totaled $11.2 million and $5.5 million, respectively, and 2017 capital expenditures are currently expected to approximate between $15 - $16 million, which includes expected capital related to the mill. At
December 31, 2016, the gross book cost of True North’s mineral properties, plant and equipment totaled $43.5 million.
In 2016, we drilled approximately 167 underground holes in support of exploration and production efforts, representing approximately 25,857 meters, with a focus on converting mineralized material to reserves, mineralized material growth, and discovering new mineralization. The drilling results obtained were also used to identify 2017 anticipated exploration drilling targets.
Processing facility
Ore from True North is processed at its mill, which has a design capacity of 2,500 tons per day. Run-of-mine ore is crushed to 100% passing ½” in a conventional two-stage crushing circuit which utilizes a primary jaw crusher and a secondary cone crusher with the circuit closed by a double deck vibrating screen. The crushed product is ground using an overflow ball mill and cyclone bank with a large portion of the cyclone underflow routed to two gravity concentrators to remove the coarse gold. The gravity concentrate is further concentrated using a gravity table in the refinery. The final gravity concentrate is smelted into doré bars and shipped off site for further refining.
The cyclone overflow reports to a flotation circuit where the gold-bearing material is collected in the flotation concentrate for further processing and the flotation tails are collected in the tailings pump box and pumped to the tailings storage facility. The flotation concentrate is reground before being leached in a cyanide solution for approximately100 hours. The leached slurry then flows through a series of six CIP tanks where the precious metals are adsorbed onto the carbon. The remaining slurry is treated to remove remaining cyanide and combined with the flotation tails slurry and pumped to the tailings storage facility. Carbon is removed from the CIP circuit, acid washed, and stripped to remove the precious metal. The carbon is then returned to the CIP circuit for reuse. The precious metal is recovered from solution in the stripping process using electrowinning cells. The precipitate from the cells is smelted to produce doré bars that are shipped off site for further refining.
Geology
True North lies within the Archean Rice Lake greenstone belt located at the west end of the Uchi Volcanic-Plutonic Subprovince of the Superior Province. The Rice Lake greenstone belt is bound to the north and south by the Wanipigow Shear Zone and the Manigotagan Shear Zone, respectively.
All the major mineralization occurrences in the True North area occur as quartz veins or quartz vein systems formed during structural deformation of the host rocks. At True North, mineralization is controlled by quartz-carbonate veins and vein systems in brittle-ductile structures with related hydrothermal alteration halos within or at the margin of particular host rock units. The mineralized veins show a high degree of structural control and are best developed in competent host rock units, particularly in the gabbro sill known as the San Antonio Unit.
All of the mineralized zones at True North are hosted in rocks of the Bidou Lake Assemblage, which forms a north-facing stratigraphic sequence of tholeiitic basalt to intermediate volcanic flows, dacite crystal tuffs and breccias overlain by well stratified felsic epiclastic rock interpreted to be of pyroclastic and sedimentary origin. The stratigraphic sequence is intruded by tholeiitic gabbro sills, and by dikes and felsic porphyry dikes.
The best-known gabbro sill is the San Antonio Unit, host rock of the mineralization at the True North deposit. The Bidou Lake Assemblage is unconformably overlain by feldspathic sandstone of the San Antonio Assemblage. The mineralized veins show a high degree of structural control and are best developed in competent host rock units.
Proven and probable reserves
Our reserve estimates are calculated in accordance with CIM Definition Standards and NI 43-101, which differ from the definitions for "proven reserves" and "probable reserves" as found in SEC Industry Guide 7. However, based on statements from P&E Mining Consultants Inc. and Practical Mining LLC we have determined that our proven and probable reserves calculated in accordance with CIM Definition Standards and NI 43-101, and reflected in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, are equivalent to proven and probable reserves as defined under SEC Industry Guide 7. Our reserve estimates are calculated using prices of $1,200 per ounce for gold and $17.00 per ounce for silver, both of which are less than the LBMA average metal prices for the past three years of approximately $1,226 per ounce for gold and $17.30 per ounce for silver. The table below summarizes the most recent reserve estimates, all of which were released during the third quarter of 2016 with the following effective dates: Fire Creek - June 30, 2016, Midas - May 31, 2016, and True North - June 30, 2016.
Mineral resources
Pursuant to applicable Canadian securities laws, we are required to disclose the following mineral resource estimates. We advise U.S. investors that although these terms are recognized and required by Canadian regulations, these terms are not defined in SEC Industry Guide 7 and the SEC does not normally permit such terms to be used in reports and registration statements filed with the SEC. U.S. investors are cautioned not to assume that any part or all of the mineral deposits in these categories will ever be converted into reserves. Our mineral resource estimates are calculated in accordance with National Instrument 43-101 Standards of Disclosure for Mineral Projects. The table below summarizes the most recent resource estimates, all of which were released during the third quarter of 2016 with the following effective dates: Fire Creek - June 30, 2016, Midas - May 31, 2016, and True North - June 30, 2016:
Development properties
Hollister
General description
The Hollister exploration and development project is a fully-permitted past producing underground and open pit operation, located in north-central Nevada in Lander County, which we acquired in October 2016. Hollister is located approximately 61.5 miles east-northeast of Winnemucca, Nevada. Hollister receives electrical power provided by NV Energy, a major Nevada power company. We classify the Hollister Project as both exploration and development, as each activity has been concurrently performed following our acquisition.
Hollister comprises 1,005 unpatented lode claims and 11 unpatented mill site claims that cover an area in excess of 18,000 acres. Patented claims occupy private lands and our unpatented claims occupy public lands, administered by the BLM. Unpatented claims are governed by the laws and regulations of the U.S. federal government and the state of Nevada. To maintain our patented claims in good standing, we must pay the annual property tax payments to the county in which the claims are held. To maintain our unpatented claims in good standing, we must file a notice of intent to maintain the claims within the county and pay the annual mineral claim filing fees to the BLM. Certain claims and areas of Hollister are subject to royalties, including: 5% and 3% NSR to Franco Nevada Corporation, 5% to Newmont, 1% to Hillcrest Mining Corporation, 1% to Finley River Company L.L.C., 2% to Hi-Tech, 2% to Finley, and 1% to Waterton after 500,000 ounces of gold production. The Company is expected to incur royalty payments of approximately 5% of revenue from Hollister in 2017. There is no expiration date on the aforementioned royalties.
Infrastructure, development, and exploration
Hollister includes an underground mine, former open pit mines, related mine support infrastructure, mining equipment, and administrative buildings, all of which are in well-maintained, operating condition. It is currently anticipated that ore from Hollister, which does not have a mill, will be processed at the nearby Midas mill (approximately 17 miles away) or the Aurora mill (approximately 277 miles away), or at a combination of both. During the year ended December 31, 2016, capital expenditures and Development and projects costs at Hollister totaled $0.8 million and $3.4 million, respectively, and 2017 capital expenditures are currently expected to approximate between $7 - $9 million. At December 31, 2016, the gross book cost of Hollister's mineral properties, plant and equipment totaled $111.2 million.
Geology
Hollister is located at the northwestern end of the Carlin Trend, that is approximately five miles wide by 40 miles long. It forms a portion of the eastern edge of the larger NNR, a major, north­-northwest trending structural feature that extends for at least 298 miles, from south-central Nevada to the Oregon-Nevada border. The NNR is distinguishable on regional-scale magnetic maps as a prominent north-northwest-trending lineament of magnetic highs. This distinctive positive magnetic anomaly is caused by Miocene-age syn-rift which is associated with the deposition of bimodal volcanic rocks ranging from basaltic to rhyolitic in composition.
The geologic setting at Hollister includes Ordovician Vinini Formation at the base of the sequence consisting of basinal sedimentary quartzite, siltite, and argillite rocks. The unconformity surface is a fanglomerate conglomerate/breccia with angular and sub-angular Vinini clasts within a silt, sand and tuffaceous matrix. Ordovician rocks are intruded and overlain by late Eocene intrusive, welded tuff, and mafic rocks.
Disseminated mineralization occurs in altered Miocene volcanic units in the Hollister open pits. Other zones of volcanic-hosted, disseminated mineralization are also known to exist beneath near-surface mineralization at Clementine, Velvet, and Butte, north of the Hollister pits.
Veins at Hollister contain the bulk of the high-grade mineralization known within the property. The principal veins, Clementine and Gwenivere, comprise semi-continuous vein systems with internal mineralization shoots, and local en echelon steps or splays. The veins in mineralized areas typically range from 0.5 to 2.0 ft in width, but locally can be more than 5.0 ft in width. The veins are mostly hosted below the Tertiary-Ordovician contact.
Aurora
General description
The Aurora project is a fully-permitted past producing underground and open pit operation, located in west-central Nevada in Mineral County, which we acquired in October 2016.
Infrastructure, development, and exploration
Aurora includes an underground mine, former open pit mines, related mine support infrastructure, mining equipment, a milling circuit, and administrative buildings, all of which are in a well-maintained condition. During the year ended December 31, 2016, capital expenditures and Development and projects costs at Aurora totaled $0.6 million and nil, respectively. At December 31, 2016, the gross book cost of the Aurora's mineral properties, plant and equipment totaled $13.6 million.
Aurora consists of 93 patented mining claims, 160 acres of fee lands, and 287 unpatented lode-mining claims, totaling over 5,004 contiguous acres that encompass the entire district. Patented claims occupy private lands and our unpatented claims occupy public lands, administered by the BLM. Unpatented claims are governed by the laws and regulations of the U.S. federal government and the state of Nevada. To maintain our
patented claims in good standing, we must pay the annual property tax payments to the county in which the claims are held. To maintain our unpatented claims in good standing, we must file a notice of intent to maintain the claims within the county and pay the annual mineral claim filing fees to the BLM. A portion of the patented and unpatented claims owned or leased by Klondex and the leased fee lands are subject to underlying royalties, such as a 3% royalty to Waterton.
Processing facility
We do not currently operate the Aurora mill, but are considering opportunities to process Hollister concentrates or toll-milling. The Aurora mill uses a jaw crusher to crush the run-of-mine ore. The crushed product is ground using a SAG mill and two over flow ball mills with the circuit closed by a bank of cyclones. The cyclone overflow reports to a series of 8 carbon in leach ("CIL") tanks where cyanide is added and precious metal is leached from the ore and adsorbed onto the carbon. The remaining slurry is treated to remove remaining cyanide and pumped to the tailings storage facility. Carbon is removed from the CIL circuit, acid washed, and stripped to remove the precious metal. The carbon is then returned to the CIL circuit for reuse. The precious metal is recovered from solution in the stripping process using electrowinning cells. The precipitate from the cells is smelted to produce doré bars that are shipped off site for further refining. Maintenance activities were in process in the fourth quarter of 2016.
Geology
Aurora is located within the Walker Lane structural belt of western Nevada. The Walker Lane is characterized by northwest-trending en echelon right-lateral strike slip faults that have tilted and rotated structural blocks since mid-Miocene through the Quaternary. Mineralized veins typically occur along northeasterly orientations. Northeast structures mostly host post-date vein mineralization in the district.
Mineralization at Aurora occurs as low-sulfidation epithermal veins, breccias, and stockwork zones in Miocene intermediate to felsic composition volcanic rocks. The Prospectus and Humboldt areas are underlain by a complex series of andesitic flows, conglomerates, and lahars. The Martinez area is underlain by a more “porphyritic” volcanic/subvolcanic rock of andesitic to dacitic composition. Mineralized veins are typically composed of several generations of silica accompanied by variable amounts of adularia, sericite, pyrite, base metal sulfides, sulfosalts and electrum.
Exploration properties
We currently have exploration properties in Manitoba, Canada and in Nevada, USA, which include the following: Maggie Creek, Reef, and Hot Springs. None of these properties currently have proven or probable reserves as defined by SEC Industry Guide 7 of the Exchange Act or NI 43-101 or mineral resource estimates calculated in accordance with NI 43-101. At the end of 2016, these properties covered approximately 2,831 acres. Over the past three years, we have not performed any significant exploration campaigns at these properties and do not currently have any plans to perform significant exploration activities at these properties in 2017. We continually evaluate these properties to determine how to best advance them by improving or increasing the identified mineralized materials and/or selling them or entering into joint venture or royalty agreements.
Item 3.