Item 2. Description of Property.
Our principal executive offices are located at Bettlistrasse 35, 8600 Dübendorf, Switzerland. We pay a Swiss administration company a monthly administrative fee which includes rent for these premises.
Our mineral properties are described below.
El Tigre Property, Porvenir Property and La Centela Property
1. Location and Access
The El Tigre property, the Porvenir property and the La Centela property are located very close to each other, in western Mexico in the south-eastern Sonora in the mountains. The nearest river is Sahuaripa River. The La Centela Property is divided into six concessions which surround the El Tigre and Porvenir properties.
A diagram of the El Tigre, Porvenir and La Centela properties is presented below:
The area where the El Tigre, Porvenir and La Centela properties are located is 1600 meters above sea level and is located on a hill. They are approximately 250 km east of Hermosillo, the capital of Sonora. The properties are accessible by paved road from Hermosillo to within about 15 km of the properties. A well maintained dirt road comprises the next 8 km with a four-wheel drive trail providing the final 7 km of access to the properties. We have re-constructed and improved this four-wheel drive trail and several other vehicular trails that lead to some of the abandoned mine workings. Valle de Tacupero is the nearest village to the property and is located on the paved road. The closest available lodging is in the village of Bamori, which is 10 km to the north of Valle de Tacupero. Fuel and services are available in Sahuaripa, which is another 20 km north of Bamori.
Maps showing the location and access to the El Tigre Property and the Porvenir Property are presented below.
2. Ownership Interest
El Tigre and Porvenir
The El Tigre claim property has an area of 30 hectares and the Porvenir claim property has an area of 83 hectares. The La Centela claim property consists of six concessions with a total area of 572 hectares.
On December 31, 2005, our wholly owned Mexican subsidiary, Hemis Gold S.A. do C.V., entered into an option agreement with Jose Quiros Soto, Loreto Careaga Galaz, Viuda de Rascon and Rosa Maria Burgos Robles to acquire a 67.5% interest in the El Tigre and Porvenir properties. We have exercised our option and acquired a 67.5% interest in the El Tigre concession and the Porvenir concession mineral claims.
In Fiscal 2007, we incurred $1,179,888 of exploration expenditures pursuant to the option agreement, while in fiscal 2006, we incurred exploration expenditures of $140,227. We are actively pursuing additional mineral concessions within this project area.
On November 5, 2007, we entered into an option agreement with Monte Cristo Gold Corporation granting Monte Cristo Gold the option to acquire a 49% or a 60% undivided interest in our right to explore and exploit the El Tigre and Porvenir concession mineral claims. Bruno Weiss, our Director and Chief Financial Officer is Chief Financial Officer of Monte Cristo. In order to maintain the option, Monte Cristo Gold paid us an initial amount of $100,000 and must pay us a further $1,900,000 by November 4, 2008. Monte Cristo may also elect to increase its interest under the option to 60% by paying us $500,000 by March 3, 2009 and $1,500,000 by November 3, 2009. If the option is exercised, regardless of the interest, we have agreed to enter into a joint venture agreement governing how the property is to be exploited and managed, with all costs and revenues to be split proportionate to the parties’ respective interests.
The property owner Federico Valenzuela controls surface rights to the El Tigre and Porvenir properties. We have negotiated an agreement with the property owner that allows us access during exploration and mining.
La Centela
On September 12, 2006 we entered into a binding letter of intent agreement with Electrum Capital, Inc. and Snra. Maria de Los Angeles Valverde Guzman (the "Optionors") whereby we obtained options to acquire up to 75% of the La Centela mineral claims. The La Centela mineral claims are located to the North, North East and West of the Porvenir claim. On October 5, 2006 the parties entered into an addendum to change the commencement date of the agreement to October 6, 2006. The agreement required that $25,000 be paid on the commencement date and that 25,000 common shares be issued within 10 days of the commencement date. We have already paid the $25,000 and issued the 25,000 shares. The agreement contemplates that a long form agreement will be entered into between the parties, although there is no deadline for entering into such an agreement,
The La Centela option agreement consists of two parts; an option to acquire the first 70% of the mining rights and an option for a further 5% of the mining rights. To acquire the first 70% of the mining rights we must pay $500,000 and issue 500,000 of our common shares to the mineral rights owner, spend at least $2,000,000 in exploration expenses and make a final share payment of 1 share for every ounce of gold we identify, if we identify any gold, to a maximum of 10,000,000 shares. If we exercise our option to acquire the first 70% of the mineral rights, we may then acquire a further 5% of the total claim by making a cash payment of $1,000,000.
To exercise the first 70% of the mining rights, we must deliver the following stock and payments to the mining concession owners, and we are required to make the following minimum exploration expenditures within the periods described:
Further, if, at the time we have completed all of the payments, issuances and expenditures as described in the table above, we have identified a gold deposit, then we must issue one common shares for every once of gold we estimate that we have identified, up to a maximum of 10,000,000 shares.
If we exercise our option and acquire a majority interest in the La Centela mining concession, and if we decide to proceed with mining the property, the Optionors shall be required to contribute to expenses of the mining, in proportion to their ownership interest. A failure to contribute proportionately to the expenses will result in conversion of the Optionors' interest to a 3% net smelter return. The 3% net smelter return would entitle the Optionors to 3% of revenues we receive from sales of minerals we have mined in the property.
3. History of Operations
The El Tigre, Porvenir and La Centela properties were mined by Spanish and Mexican miners before the Mexican Revolution which took place from 1910 to 1930. These areas have been mined for several hundred years. In the El Tigre Property there are several large pits which range in size up to approximately 15 meters wide, 25 meters long and at least 20 meters deep. They appear to have been previously mined by hand. There are no records indicating the amount of gold produced from these workings. The area has never been processed with professional machines.
4. Present Condition of the Property and Current State of Exploration
El Tigre Property
We have recently finalized the initial exploration phase on the El Tigre concession. The initial exploration work has yielded positive indications.
Over 173 samples were collected in sections of the concession that are far from any of the known prospect pits and analyzed by ALS Chemex in Hermosillo, Mexico. We conducted the sampling to identify areas of precious metal mineralization both on and off the claim block. Most of the samples had detectable gold in the geochemically anomalous range.
As a result of this sampling, five main target areas have been identified on the property; two areas around the El Tigre monument; one area with breccia evident at surface, situated east of El Tigre with a few historic pits; and two large historic workings on the same breccia zone which were discovered at a distance of 500m along the Eastern High Ridge, which is a section further east than El Tigre East and along the roadway near the our La Centela claim
We have one geologic report on the El Tigre Property that was written by Doug Oliver, Ph. D., our Vice President Operations, geologist and a former director of us. The report was prepared in May 2006 and reviews the potential for mineral deposits in the El Tigre Property.
In his discussion of the results of the rock samples from El Tigre, Dr. Oliver states that because of the highly oxidized state of the rocks at El Tigre, any bulk-tonnage gold deposit discovered there would be an excellent candidate for low cost heap leach extraction methods.
The heap leach process is a process of extracting gold by placing ore on an impermeable pad and applying a diluted cyanide solution that dissolves a portion of the contained gold, which is then recovered in metallurgical processes. Some governmental bodies, including the State of Montana, have banned the use of this method because of environmental concerns. Neither Mexico, nor the State of Sonora in Mexico have banned the use of this method and our management is not aware that any government body in Mexico is considering banning this method.
The chief environmental consequence of the heap leach process is the accidental release of cyanide from the site. This can happen either as a result of a tailings dam failure or during overflow of the pregnant solution pond during intense rainfall. According to our geologist, Dr. Oliver, Hemis can prevent both of these situations by designing the processing facility to prevent the possibility of either of these happening in even worst-case scenarios. The tailings pond should be professionally designed and constructed with quality assurance personnel monitoring the process at all stages. The pregnant pond should be designed to retain the water from a 100-year flood. In professionally designed and operated mines there should not be a significant risk of accidental release of cyanide. The costs of building and operating a professionally designed mine is an integral part of mine construction and we do not anticipate it would add any unusual or significant expense to our cost of operations, should we decide to use the heap leach process on a gold deposit if we find one.
Porvenir Property
As of March 31, 2008, the only work that has been done on the Porvenir Property is some geochemical sampling. The owner of the property, Jose Quiroz, has promised to come out to the property and show us where he thinks the higher grade breccias are.
La Centela Property
We have conducted some preliminary sampling and mapping on the La Centela property, and have constructed two drill pads, one on a gold-bearing breccia zone and a second to test the deep molybdenum target. We are also constructing an exploration camp near the ranch house for the drill crew and geologists.
Our plan of exploration for the joint El Tigre Gold Project (the joint El Tigre, Porvenir and La Centela Claims) is as follows:
Description of Phase of Exploration
Commence core drilling
Description of Exploration Work Required
We plan to commence core drilling at the end of April 2008 using Cabo Drilling. Initial drilling will be on three of the five known gold- bearing breccia zones. We are planning on eight holes averaging 200 meters each. Estimated time of completion is two months. Projected cost for this phase is $240,000.
Test Hole
Drilling will then shift to an initial deep hole on the El Aliso Moly target. This will be a single test hole of approximately 1,000 meters. This hole will give us time to get assays and evaluate the initial round of drilling at El Tigre. The time to drill this hole is estimated at approximately two months. Projected cost for this phase is $185,000.
Follow up drilling
A round of follow-up drilling will take place to further test and expand results from the first round of drilling at El Tigre. Target selection will be based on either favorable results from the first round, untested breccia zones, and/or target areas found in ongoing sampling and mapping. This second round of drilling is currently scheduled at five holes averaging 250 meters each but may be expanded depending on results from the first round. Estimated time of completion is approximately six weeks. Projected cost for this phase is $180,000.
On-going sampling and mapping
We are also currently engaged in on-going sampling and mapping at El Tigre. The goal is to generate more targets while we are drilling so as to sustain the project. Projected cost for continued exploration is $30,000.
There are several key factors that can delay completion of the exploration program:
Delays in permit approval for drilling;
Limited availability of core rigs in Mexico; and
Lack of funding.
Factors that could cause exploration costs to be greater than anticipated are largely from drilling conditions to include the following:
Caving ground;
Lost circulation;
Artesian water; and
Stuck drill steel.
All work on the El Tigre, Porvenir and La Centela properties will be conducted on our behalf by contractors who will include Dr. Doug Oliver, our Vice President Operations and geologist, and a drilling company. Dr. Oliver was paid approximately $6,000 per month plus travel expenses from January 2007 until November 2007. He stopped receiving a salary after that as he was providing less hours of services to us. We have been soliciting bids from various drilling companies and we do not yet have any written commitments from a drilling company to provide us with drilling services. Normal industry rates are expected for core drilling. The program will be supervised by our Vice President Operations, Dr. Oliver.
5. Geology
The El Tigre concession contains 30 hectares (0.3 sq. km) and the Porvenir property contains 83 hectares (0.83 sq. km). The La Centela property contains 572 hectares (5.72 sq. km). Exposed bedrock comprises about 20% of the El Tigre, Porvenir and La Centela properties and consists of intrusive and extrusive igneous rocks. Contacts between these various lithologies have not been observed thus far, nor have any geologic structures.
The intrusive rocks are primarily granitic in composition. Large intrusive bodies are exposed to the south and west of the project area. These larger bodies are the coarsest grained rocks in the project area and show the least amount of fracturing or alteration. Small intrusive bodes are widespread across the project and are finer in grain size. Some of these bodies appear to be intrusive into the surrounding volcanic rocks.
Ryolite is the most abundant rock type in the project area. It commonly contains small phenocrysts of quartz and/or orthoclase and is very light in color. Breccias consisting of angular clasts surrounded by fine-grained matrix are widespread across the project area. They are most commonly developed in the rhyolite volcanic rocks and may also occur in andesites. Mega-breccias and breccias containing rounded or zoned clasts are in the area. The breccias often occur in linear zones but also cover broad areas.
The rocks on the El Tigre, Porvenir and La Centela properties are comprised of rhyolite, breccias, granite, quartz monzonite and andesite. Surrounding areas show evidence of quartz veins, breccia dikes and breccia zones, which stretch over a large area and extend to the southeast.
On the El Tigre, Porvenir and La Centela properties there are lots of pits, burrows and holes, some from which gold appears to have been previously extracted.
Anchor Point Gold Project
1. Location and Access
We have five exploration project locations in Alaska, which are collectively known as The Anchor Point Gold Project. They are located near shore on the west side of the lower Cook Inlet adjacent to and north of Anchor point. The project locations are all located within a 45 square mile area of marine waters with the following boundaries: beginning at the city of Anchorage, Alaska, a line running due west from Anchorage to the western shore of Cook Inlet, and extending south to a line running due west from the village of Seldovia on the east side of Cook Inlet to the western shore of Cook Inlet. The nearest onshore access infrastructure is a boat launch area (Anchor Point Boat Launch) located on the shoreline at the confluence of the Anchor River and Cook Inlet waters. The boat launch is approximately 1.5 miles west of the city of Anchor Point connected by 1.5 miles of paved road. The project locations vary in distance from one mile to eight miles offshore from the Boat launch. Anchor Point is a city of approximately 1800 population and is located 16 miles north of the city of Homer Alaska and 24 miles south of Ninilchik Alaska connected by the Sterling Highway. The Sterling Highway is a two lane paved highway with year-round access to the State-wide highway system. Access to the project sites will be by marine vessel from Anchor Point and Homer. Fuel, services, and lodging are located in Homer and Anchor Point. The nearest hospital and commercial airport is located in Homer.
The maps below show the location of the Anchor Point Gold Project and also the location of offshore prospecting permit applications 153-161 and 194-222 that we are applying for.
2. Ownership Interest
On January 8, 2007 we entered into an agreement with Aspen Exploration Corporation pursuant to which Aspen assigned us State of Alaska offshore prospecting permit applications153-161, and 194-222 as shown on the maps above, together with a non-exclusive license of all of Aspen’s right, title and interests to all maps, aeromagnetic surveys and geologic information developed by Aspen in the Cook Inlet, Alaska.
We have not acquired an interest in any physical property in the Cook Inlet, Alaska. The offshore prospecting permit applications have been denied for several years, but if we are successful in reapplying for them, we will have the right to exploit, mine and produce all minerals lying beneath the surface of the permitted area. However, there is a risk that the State of Alaska will never accept these offshore prospecting permit applications in which case this asset will be of little value to us.
Under the terms of the agreement with Aspen, Hemis shall own and operate all such interests within the area of interest (other than oil and gas rights and interests), either acquired or proposed to be acquired by Aspen or us, during the next 30 years; and Aspen will have a right to receive a 5% gross royalty on all ores, minerals and mineral resources produced from the offshore prospecting permit applications within the above described area of interest.
In order to maintain the rights to the offshore prospecting permit applications together with the non-exclusive license, we have agreed to pay Aspen $50,000 on signing the agreement, and an annual payment of $50,000 thereafter, beginning in September 2007. If we fail to make the payments, we will have been deemed to have withdrawn from the agreement with Aspen and the agreement will be terminated. We made a payment of $50,000 on September 5, 2007.
Additionally we have granted Aspen a 5% gross royalty in any ores, minerals, and mineral resources produced from the offshore prospecting permit applications, including all offshore prospecting permit applications acquired by us in the area of interest in the Cook Inlet, Alaska during the 30 year term of the agreement. In particular, the 5% royalty on all placer gold produced shall be paid in kind. Royalty for minerals other than placer gold shall be 5% of the gross revenue received by or on behalf of us from the sale or other dispositions of the ores, minerals, and mineral resources.
During the period ended December 31, 2007, we incurred exploration expenditures of $795,532 in relation to the Anchor Point Gold Project.
On November 16, 2007 we entered into an option agreement with Condor Gold Corporation which became effective on November 23, 2007 whereby we granted to Condor Gold the option to acquire a 49% or a 60% undivided interest in our rights to explore and exploit certain offshore gold permits located in the Anchor Point Project. Bruno Weiss, our Director and Chief Financial Officer is Chief Financial Officer of Condor Gold. Pursuant to the option agreement Condor Gold may acquire a 49% percent interest in our rights to the property by paying $100,000 to us within 5 business days following the effective date of November 23, 2007, and $1,900,000 within 12 months following the effective date. Additionally, Condor Gold may increase its interest to 60% by paying to the Company $500,000 within 18 months following the effective date and $1,500,000 within 24 months following the effective date. If Condor Gold exercises its option to acquire the 49% interest, the parties have agreed to enter into a joint-venture agreement regarding the exploitation and management of the property whereby all costs and revenues regarding the property will be divided in proportion to the respective interest of the parties. If Condor Gold exercises its option to increase its interest to 60%, the allocation of costs and revenues pursuant to the joint venture agreement will be modified accordingly. The option agreement does not grant to Condor Gold any right to hold title to the property. Condor Gold may terminate the option agreement at any time by giving written notice to us. The option agreement will terminate automatically if Condor Gold fails to make any payments necessary for it to acquire a 49% interest in the Property. As of December 31, 2007, we have not received any proceeds pursuant to the option agreement. Condor Gold failed to make the initial $100,000 payment to maintain its option and therefore the option expired and the Option Agreement terminated as of November 22, 2007.
3. History of Operations / Plan of Operations
Other than sporadic small-scale beach mining over the last century, there has been no mining in Cook Inlet.
As at March 30, 2008, none of the offshore prospecting permit applications have been approved. Until approval is obtained, we are involved in determining where the sampling program is to take place. We anticipate that if we are successful in obtaining the permits, the initial sampling program will start in May 2008 and last 30 days.
We will persist in obtaining approval of the offshore prospecting permits and if we are successful, we have agreed the following plan of operation, which we shall use as our basis for exploration, development and mining of all ores, minerals, and mineral resources in the area:
In the first year, we will acquire additional aeromagnetic data in the area of interest in the Cook Inlet, Alaska, and apply for additional state of Alaska offshore prospecting permits or federal offshore exploration and mining rights.
In the second and subsequent years, we will obtain permits and conduct exploration of the area.
Once feasibility is demonstrated, we will acquire the equipment needed to economically produce any identified deposits.
Thereafter, we will pursue the commencement of commercial production of any mining deposits that have a market value.
4. Present Condition of the Property and Current State of Exploration
Cook Inlet is famous for its extremely high tides (the second highest in the world after the Bay of Fundy). It is proposed that the back and forth tidal action has served to concentrate heavy minerals along the beach including gold. Unspecified quantities of gold have been found along the active beach in several places along Cook Inlet, particularly along the eastern shoreline. The gold occurs with another heavy mineral called magnetite which is a magnetic iron oxide. Aeromag surveys show pronounced magnetic anomalies along the active beach as would be expected due to the magnetite sand. However, there are other off-shore magnetic anomalies that parallel the beach. These are interpreted to represent ancestral beaches during low stands of sea-level during the ice age. These off-shore aeromag anomalies are the targets of the current exploration. There has never been any testing to determine if gold is present in the off-shore anomalies.
5. Geology
The surficial geology of the Anchor Point area is roughly divided into two parts by the lower Anchor River. North of the river, Kenai lowland is underlain by undifferentiated till of the pre-late Wisconsin (pre-Naptowne) glaciation and complex glaciolacustrine deposits related to the early (Moosehorn) stade of the late Wisconsin (Naptowne) glaciation. In the vicinity of the settlement of Anchor River, study of the logs of water wells allowed separation of a dominantly glaciolacustrine deposit that is apparently related to the Moosehorn stade of the Naptowne glaciation. This terrain is transected by a complex system of abandoned meltwater channels. Alluvium of fluvial terraces was deposited by modern streams as they incised their channels. Paludal deposits, primarily peat, form broad, generally treeless blankets and channel and basin fills. Undifferentiated colluvium forms aprons and fans on steep river and inlet bluffs; debris-flow deposits and mixed colluvium and alluvium occupy erosion gullies. South of Anchor River, the surficial geology is dominantly till with associated coarse-grained ice-stagnation deposits comprising a kettle-rich moraine built during the Moosehorn stade of the Naptowne glaciation. Most of the kettles are occupied by small lakes or contain organic paludal sediments. A rotational slump scallops the steep, rapidly eroding sea cliff just north of the mouth of Traverse Creek in the southwestern corner of the study area. The beach area along Anchor Point and Laida Spit contain wedge and blanket-shaped deposits of medium to coarse sand with local lags of cobbles deposited by the action of waves and longshore currents.
Wolfe Creek and Covenant Properties
1. Location and Access
Wolfe Creek
We have options to acquire two placer claims in British Columbia, Canada; claim 524570 covering 80 acres; and claim 545941 covering 40 acres, and a mineral claim 548020 covering 370 acres as outlined below in bold.
Claim 524570
Note that in Claim 524570, there is an overlapping of a claim staked under the previous mineral titles system, now deemed a “legacy claim” and shown on the east border of the highlighted claim above. It occupies approximately 10% of the available area on this claim. The partially overlying claim has priority over that 10% unless it expires. If it does expire the ground that was previously covered by it will automatically accrue into our claim.
These claims are located 3km (1.8 miles) north of the town of Sooke, which is 20 minutes west of Victoria, directly adjacent to Leechtown, a historic gold mining town. Access is possible by car to the Sooke potholes provincial park, from where it is necessary to continue on foot for approximately one hour using the Galloping Goose trail which runs parallel to the Sooke River, in a northerly direction for 4km to where the Leech River and Old Wolfe creek join. At this juncture, one can follow the mostly dry creek bed west approximately 900 metres (approximately half a mile) to the claims’ boundaries. Temperate island climate provides year round access. The claims are located at latitude 48°29'26" longitude 123°41'59".
The claims cover 800 metres (approximately half a mile) of available creek frontage and continuous dry creek channel per side. Semi tropical vegetation is moderately dense in places. Gravels from sand to large amounts of much coarser ungraded rocks and boulders are encountered throughout.
Covenant
The Covenant claim consists of placer claim 534244 covering 158.56 acres. The property binds both sides of a heavily pronounced bend on the Jordan River, 28km west of Sooke. It can be accessed by the logging road north of the West Coast Highway or, from the logging road that runs east-west on the south side of Loss Creek. The coordinates of the claims are latitude 48°32'6" and longitude 123°56'43".
A 4 wheel drive vehicle is recommended because the roads are all gravel. There are a couple of options if traveling to these claims by road:
1. From Otter Point Road in Sooke, B.C. which is about 30 km (18 miles) east of Jordan River; and
2.
From Forbay Road in Jordan River about 1 km east of the Jordan River bridge.
2.
Ownership Interest
On March 13, 2007 we entered into an option agreement with Stacs GmbH whereby we acquired an option to purchase a 100% mining rights to the Wolfe Creek and Covenant mineral concessions, subject to a 3% royalty. In order to exercise this option we must spend $1,000,000 in exploration expenses by March 13, 2010.
In addition to making the above payment, we are required to pay an ongoing royalty of 3% to Stacs GmbH on any minerals recovered.
As of December 31, 2007, we have not incurred any expenditure on this property.
3. History of Operations/ Plan of Operations
There is a lot of history surrounding gold exploration in the streams on the south west coast of Vancouver Island, especially in those originating from a geological formation known as the Leech River Formation, so named since it is the geological source of placer gold found in the Leech River, which was named after Lieutenant Peter Leech who discovered gold in its upper reaches on July 14th, 1864. The geological survey of Canada and the UBC Lithoprobe project have both confirmed that the deposits within the Leech River formation are due to the melting of the Juan de Fuca subducting plate underneath Vancouver Island, where intrusive materials tend to work their way up to the surface of the island. The rivers and streams in the area have been sporadically worked since the mid 1800’s, and the rivers in the region continue to yield high quality deposits even today (source: http://www.gis.unbc.ca/courses/geog432/projects/2002/milok000/index.htm ).
Over the next 36 months, we plan to spend approximately $1,000,000 on mapping, re-sampling, relocation, geological, geochemical and geophysical surveys, and trenching. Subsequent drilling will require some remediation work. We are still in the early stages of developing our full exploration plan on this property, and we don’t anticipate that we will begin exploration of this property for another six months. We plan on spending approximately $500,000 over the next 12 months in exploration of the Wolfe Creek and Covenant claims.
4. Present Condition of the Property and Current State of Exploration
Wolfe Creek
Limited exploration of the Wolfe Creek property was carried out by using gold panning techniques. The make and model of goldpan used for sampling was a 15” Garret Super Sluice green plastic goldpan which features two 1/2"-deep riffles. This model was selected due to its light carry weight resultant in a quicker recovery time in precious metals versus using heavier metal versions. The green color was chosen based on preference. Coarse gravels were encountered throughout and therefore a great deal of time was spent preparing pans and sifting 25kg dry gravel per pan before washing. A total of three pans were reduced to observe colors. Pans were removed from a large ungraded dry pile on the north creek bed on the inside contour of a 45 degree bend, approx 20m inside the West border of the claim. A large tractor tire was 15 meters west of the hole. In this case, concentrates of each pan were black magnetite sand with the smallest visible particles of gold, known as “colors”. Our prospecting technique consisted of measuring the visible “colors” per pan.
Covenant
We have not yet performed evaluation work on this property, other than verifying access last year. We plan to start exploration work on this property within the next 6 months.
5. Geology
Regional Geology: South-West Vancouver Island, where the claims are located, is principally comprised of Wrangellia to the east and Pacific terrain to the west and southwest divided by Leech River fault thrusts. The Island’s southern shores edge out into Sooke formation sandstone and conglomerate.
Local Geology: Old Wolf Creek flows west (directly) along the Leech River fault which separates jurassic to cretaceous Leech River complex (formation) slates and schists on the north, from tertiary metchosin volcanics on the south. The metasediments strike nearly west and dip steeply northeast. The topography shows the stream to have cut down through the bedrock leaving a series of gravel covered benches. Placer gold, found in the gravel, is believed to have been derived from small, but numerous, gold-bearing quartz stringers hosted by the Leech River rocks.
Glossary of Technical Terms
Term
Andesite Alluvium Bedrock Breccia
Definition
a fine-grained igneous rock. soil or sediments deposited by a river or other running water solid rock present beneath any soil, sediment or other surface cover. a rock formed from fragments of pre-existing rock in which the gravel-sized particles are angular in shape and make up an appreciable volume of the rock.
Breccia pipes
a circular, chimney-like mass of highly fragmented rock resulting from the subsidence of large rock segments into a void created by solution activity in a lower formation.
Clasts
an individual constituent, grain, or fragment of sediment or rock, produced by mechanical or chemical disintegration of a larger rock mass.
Colluvium Extrusive Geologic mapping
rock and soil accumulated at the foot of a slope from gravitational forces igneous rocks that crystallize at Earth's surface. the process of mapping geologic formations, associated rock characteristics and structural features.
Geophysical Glaciolacustrine
the study of the earth by quantitative physical methods. pertaining to, or characterized by, glacial and lacustrine processes or conditions. The term is applied especially to deposits made in lakes.
Granitic
a common, coarse-grained, light-colored, hard igneous rock consisting chiefly of quartz, orthoclase or microcline
Lost circulation Magnetite
the loss of drilling fluids through open faults, fractures, and/or permeable rock. is a mineral, from the iron oxide family. It is the most magnetic of all the naturally occurring minerals on earth
Molybdenum
A hard, silvery-white metallic element used to toughen alloy steels and soften tungsten alloy. An essential trace element in plant nutrition, it is used in fertilizers, dyes, enamels, and reagents.
Moraine
is the term used to describe rock that is moved by a glacier as it traverses a continent
Paludal Phenocryst
pertaining to a depositional environment or organisms from a marsh a crystal that is significantly larger than the crystals surrounding it. Phenocrysts form during an early phase in the cooling of magma, and are crystals of minerals that crystallize at higher temperatures than the groundmass.
Pluton
Porphyry
an igneous intrusion.
Rock containing relatively large conspicuous crystals, especially feldspar, in a fine-grained igneous matrix.
Quartz Monzonite
a rock enriched in lighter elements formed when molten rock (magma) cools and solidifies.
Quartz Veins
regularly shaped and lengthy occurrences of mineralization, along with pyrrhotite, galena and other minerals. Pyrrhotite is a brownish iron sulfide mineral having weak magnetic properties. Galena is a mineral containing mainly lead sulfide that is blue-gray in color.
Rhyolite Riffles Strata Tailings
a fine-grained silica-rich igneous rock, the extrusive equivalent of granite. Riffles are the shallower, faster moving sections of a stream. layers of sediment or layers of sedimentary rock. are the materials left over after the process of separating the valuable fraction from the worthless fraction of an ore.
Tungsten
A metal commonly used to make the plugs used for connecting metal wires to one another or to the devices in integrated circuits.
Item 3.