Item 2. Properties.
Platinum’s principal executive offices are located at 11490 Westheimer Road, Suite 1000, Houston, Texas 77077. We also maintain division offices in Victoria, Corpus Christi and Yoakum, Texas.
Current Oil and Gas Activities
We own core producing and non-producing oil and natural gas properties in Texas and New Mexico. The following is a summary of our major operating areas.
Tomball Field. We own an interest in, and are operator of, oil and natural gas properties in the Tomball Field, which is located in Harris County, Texas, and is approximately 30 miles northwest of Houston, Texas. The Tomball Field contains multiple productive formations ranging in depth from 1,000 to 9,000 feet, including the Yegua, Cockfield, and Wilcox. Current operations consist of 19 producing wells and 6 water disposal wells. At December 31, 2009, we held 7,000 acres and had an inventory of 3 proved undeveloped locations in the Tomball Field. We own a 100% working interest and net revenue interests ranging from 84.5% to 87.5%. TEC began operating the Tomball field in 1996, but it has been producing continuously since 1930. The current daily net production from the field is approximately 251.6 Bbls of oil and 723.2 Mcf of gas per day. The field is also producing approximately 16,000 Bbls of water per day.
Ira Field. We own an interest in, and are operator of, an oil production unit in the Ira Field, which is located in Scurry County, Texas, and is approximately 75 miles northeast of Midland, Texas. The Ira Field production is from the San Andres formation at approximately 1,800 feet. Current operations consist of 150 producing wells and 75 water injection wells. At December 31, 2009, we held 3,600 acres and had an inventory of 76 proved undeveloped locations in the Ira Field. We own an 88% working interest and 72% net revenue interest. TEC, through it predecessor in interest, began operating the IRA Field in 2004, but the IRA Field has been producing continuously since 1955. The current daily net production from the field is approximately 105.3 Bbls of oil per day. The field is also producing approximately 4,000 Bbls of water per day.
Ball Field. We own an interest in, and are operator of, oil and natural gas properties in the Ball Field, which is located in Palo Pinto County, Texas, and is approximately 75 miles west of Fort Worth, Texas. The Ball Field contains multiple productive formations ranging in depth from 3,000 to 3,800 feet, including the Big Saline, Duffer, and Barnett Shale. Current operations consist of 17 producing wells and 1 water disposal well. At December 31, 2009, we held 4,900 acres and had an inventory of 17 proved undeveloped locations in the Ball Field. We own working interests ranging from 50% to 100%, and net revenue interests ranging from 40.3% to 87.5%. TEC began operating the Ball Field in 1993, but it has been producing continuously since 1930. The current daily net production from the field is approximately 416 Mcf of gas per day. The field is also producing approximately 495 Bbls of water per day. On December 28, 2007 we acquired an additional 50% working interest in the Barnett Shale acreage for approximately $920,000. This acquisition increased our net acreage position by 2,300 net acres and gave us a 100% working interest in the Barnett. We have completed a 3 D seismic program and plan to begin a horizontal drilling program in the Barnett as soon as the economic climate improves.
Ballard Field. We own an interest in, and are operator of, an oil production unit in the Ballard Field, which is located in Eddy County, New Mexico, and is approximately 150 miles northwest of Midland, Texas. The Ballard Field contains multiple productive formations ranging in depth from 2,000 to 3,000 feet, including the Yates, Grayburg, and San Andres. Current operations consist of 46 producing wells and 26 water injection wells. During 2008 we drilled and completed 6 proved undeveloped locations. All 6 wells are currently producing. At December 31, 2009, we held approximately 3,000 net acres. We own an 86% working interest and 78.7% net revenue interest. TEC, through its predecessor in interest, began operating the Ballard Field in 2004, but it has been producing continuously since 1965. The current daily net production from the field is approximately 86.9 Bbls of oil and 44.6 Mcf of gas per day. The field is also producing approximately 1,300 Bbls of water per day.
USM Field. We own an interest in, and are operator of, oil and natural gas properties in the USM Field, which is located in Pecos County, Texas, and is approximately 120 miles southwest of Midland, Texas. The USM Field production is from the Yates and Queen formations at approximately 3,200 feet. Current operations consist of 54 producing wells and 4 water disposal wells. During 2008 we drilled and completed 4 proved undeveloped locations. All 4 wells are currently producing. At December 31, 2009, we held approximately 3,000 net acres in the field. We own working interests ranging from 90% to 100%, and net revenue interests ranging from 79.3% to 89.6%. TEC, through its predecessor in interest, began operating the USM Field in 2004, but it has been producing continuously since 1985. The current daily net production from the field is approximately 44.9 Bbls of oil and 106.4 Mcf of gas per day. The field is also producing approximately 80 Bbls of water per day.
Choate Field. We own an interest in, and are operator of, oil and natural gas properties in the Choate Field, which is located in Hardin County, Texas, and is approximately 35 miles northwest of Beaumont, Texas. The Choate Field production is from sand lenses flanking a salt dome ranging in depth from 1,000 to 2,500 feet. Current operations consist of 23 producing wells. During 2008, we drilled 11 proved undeveloped locations, 9 of which were successful and are currently producing. At December 31, 2009, we held 50 acres and had an inventory of 6 proved undeveloped locations in the Choate Field. We own a 75% working interest and 57% net revenue interest. TEC, through its predecessor in interest, began operating the Choate Field in 2004, but it has been producing continuously since 1960. The current daily net production from the field is approximately 71.1 Bbls of oil per day. The field is also producing approximately 200 Bbls of water per day.
Lothian Properties. In December 2007 we purchased, for $6.2 million plus customary closing adjustments, approximately 200 producing wells from Lothian Oil and Gas, Inc. The Lothian assets acquired consist of oil and gas properties located in Chavez, Lea and Eddy counties, New Mexico and are adjacent to or near our Ballard Field. The current net production is approximately 80.7 Bbls of oil and 89.0 Mcf of gas per day. The field is also producing approximately 23 Bbls of water per day.
Other. We own numerous small mineral, royalty and non-operated working interests in various oil and natural gas properties located in Texas, New Mexico, Louisiana, Montana, and North Dakota.
Below is a map indicating the locations of the Company’s significant operated properties in Texas and New Mexico.
Natural Gas and Oil Data
In January 2009 the SEC issued Release No. 33-8995, “Modernization of Oil and Gas Reporting” (Release 33-8995), amending oil and gas reporting requirements under Rule 4-10 of Regulation S-X and Industry Guide 2 in Regulation S-K and bringing full-cost accounting rules into alignment with the revised disclosure requirements. The new rules revised certain definitions and terms, including the definition of proved reserves, which was revised to indicate that entities must use the unweighted arithmetic average of the first-day-of-the-month commodity price over the preceding 12-month period, rather than the end-of-period price, when estimating whether reserve quantities are economical to produce. Likewise, the 12-month average price is used to calculate cost center ceilings for impairment and to compute depreciation, depletion, and amortization. Another significant provision of the new rules is a general requirement that, subject to limited exceptions, proved undeveloped reserves may only be booked if they relate to wells scheduled to be drilled within five years of booking.
In January 2010 the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No. 2010-03, “Oil and Gas Reserve Estimation and Disclosures” (ASU 2010-03), which amends Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) Topic 932, “Extractive Industries - Oil and Gas” to align the guidance with the changes made by the SEC. The Company adopted Release 33-8995 and the amendments to ASC Topic 932 resulting from ASU 2010-03 (collectively, the Modernization Rules) effective December 31, 2009.
Estimated Proved Reserves and Future Net Cash Flows
Proved oil and gas reserves are the estimated quantities of natural gas, crude oil, and condensate that geological and engineering data demonstrate with reasonable certainty to be recoverable in future years from known reservoirs under existing conditions, operating conditions, and government regulations. Reserve estimates are considered proved if they are economically producible and are supported by either actual production or conclusive formation tests. Estimated reserves that can be produced economically through application of improved recovery techniques are included in the “proved” classification when successful testing by a pilot project or the operation of an active, improved recovery program using reliable technology establishes the reasonable certainty for the engineering analysis on which the project or program is based. Economically producible means a resource which generates revenue that exceeds, or is reasonably expected to exceed, the costs of the operation. Reasonable certainty means a high degree of confidence that the quantities will be recovered. Reliable technology is a grouping of one or more technologies (including computational methods) that has been field-tested and has been demonstrated to provide reasonably certain results with consistency and repeatability in the formation being evaluated or in an analogous formation. Estimated proved developed oil and gas reserves can be expected to be recovered through existing wells with existing equipment and operating methods.
Proved undeveloped (PUD) reserves include those reserves that are expected to be recovered from new wells on undrilled acreage, or from existing wells where a relatively major expenditure is required for recompletion. Undeveloped reserves may be classified as proved reserves on undrilled acreage directly offsetting development areas that are reasonably certain of production when drilled, or where reliable technology provides reasonable certainty of economic productivity. Undrilled locations may be classified as having undeveloped reserves only if a development plan has been adopted indicating that they are scheduled to be drilled within five years, unless specific circumstances justify a longer time period.
Qualifications of Technical Persons and Internal Controls over Reserves Estimation Process
Our proved reserve information as of December 31, 2009, included in this Annual Report was estimated by our independent petroleum engineers, Williamson Petroleum Consultants, Inc., in accordance with generally accepted petroleum engineering and evaluation principles and definitions and guidelines established by the SEC. The technical persons responsible for preparing the reserve estimates presented herein meet the requirements qualifications, independence, objectivity, and confidentiality set forth in the Standards Pertaining to the Estimating and Auditing of Oil and Gas Reserves Information promulgated by the Society of Petroleum Engineers.
We maintain an internal staff of petroleum engineers who work closely with our independent petroleum engineers to ensure the integrity, accuracy and timeliness furnished to Williamson Petroleum Consultants, Inc. in their reserves estimation process. In the fourth quarter, our technical team met on a regular basis with representatives of Williamson Petroleum Consultants, Inc. to review properties and discuss methods and assumptions used in Williamson Petroleum Consultant’s preparation of year end reserves estimates. While we have no formal committee specifically designated to review reserves reporting and the reserved estimation process, the Williamson report is reviewed by our senior management and internal technical staff. Additionally, our senior management reviews and approves any internally estimated significant changes to our proved reserves on a quarterly basis.
Platinum’s proved reserves are estimated at the property level and compiled for reporting purposes by our operations staff. Our operations staff interacts with our field managers and with accounting and production employees to obtain the necessary data for projecting future production, costs, net revenues and ultimate recoverable reserves. All relevant data is compiled in a computer database application, to which only authorized personnel are given security access rights consistent with their assigned job function. Reserves are reviewed internally with senior management on a semi-annual basis. Annually, each property is reviewed in detail by our operating managers to ensure forecasts of operating expenses, netback prices, production trends and development timing are reasonable.
Platinum emphasizes that its reported reserves are reasonably certain estimates which, by their very nature, are subject to revision. As additional geosciences, engineering and economic data are obtained, proved reserve estimates are much more likely to increase or remain constant than to decrease. These estimates are reviewed throughout the year and revised either upward or downward, as warranted.
Platinum’s Operations Manager, Rusty Arnold, is the person primarily responsible for overseeing the preparation of our internal reserve estimates and for coordinating any reserves audits conducted by a third-party engineering firm. Mr. Arnold is a graduate of Brigham Young University with Bachelor of Science and Master of Science degrees in Electrical Engineering. He has over 28 years of industry experience.
The estimate of reserves disclosed in this annual report on Form 10-K is prepared by Williamson Petroleum Consultants, Inc. (Williamson). See the summary of Williamson’s report as of December 31, 2009 included as an exhibit to this Form 10-K. Estimates of reserves as of year-end 2009 were prepared using an average price equal to the unweighted arithmetic average of hydrocarbon prices on the first day of each month within the 12-month period ended December 31, 2009, in accordance with revised guidelines of the SEC, first applicable to reserves estimates prepared as of year-end 2009. Estimates of reserves as of year-end 2008 were prepared using constant prices and costs in accordance with previous guidelines of the SEC, based on hydrocarbon prices received on a field-by-field basis as of December 31, 2008. Reserve estimates do not include any value for probable or possible reserves that may exist, nor do they include any value for undeveloped acreage. The reserve estimates represent our net revenue interest in our properties.
Reserve Technologies
Proved reserves are those quantities of oil and natural gas, which, by analysis of geosciences and engineering data, can be estimated with reasonable certainty to be economically producible from a given date forward, from known reservoirs, and under existing economic conditions, operating methods, and government regulations. The term “reasonable certainty” implies a high degree of confidence that the quantities of oil and/or natural gas actually recovered will equal or exceed the estimate. To achieve reasonable certainty, Williamson employed technologies that have been demonstrated to yield results with consistency and repeatability. The technical and economic data used in the estimation of our proved reserves include, but are not limited to, well logs, geologic maps, production data, seismic data, well test data, historical price and cost information and property ownership interest.
Proved Reserves
The following table shows proved oil and gas reserves by field as of December 31, 2009, based on average commodity prices in effect on the first day of each month in 2009, held flat for the life of the production, except where future oil and gas sales are covered by physical contract terms:
All of our reserves are located in the United States of America. As of December 31, 2009, Platinum had total estimated proved reserves of 2,188 MM barrels of crude oil and 13,677 MMcf of natural gas As of December 31, 2009, the Company’s proved developed reserves totaled 1,938,128 Boe, and estimated PUD reserves totaled 2,529,112 Boe, or approximately 57 percent of total proved reserves. Platinum has elected not to disclose probable or possible reserves in this filing.
The Company’s estimates of proved reserves, proved developed reserves and proved undeveloped reserves as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, changes in estimated proved reserves during the last two years, and estimates of future net cash flows from proved reserves are contained in Note 18 - Supplemental Oil and Gas Disclosures in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements set forth in Part IV, Item 18 of this Form 10-K. Estimated future net cash flows as of December 31, 2009, were calculated using a discount rate of 10 percent per annum, end of period costs, and an unweighted arithmetic average of commodity prices in effect on the first day of each month in 2009, held flat for the life of the production, except where prices are defined by contractual arrangements. Future net cash flows as of December 31, 2008 were estimated using commodity prices in effect at December 31, 2008, in accordance with the SEC guidelines in effect prior to the issuance of the Modernization Rules.
The Company has elected not to disclose the probable and possible developed and undeveloped reserves.
Proved Undeveloped Reserves
During the year, Platinum converted 33.5 Mboe of proved undeveloped reserves to proved developed reserves through development drilling activity.
During the year a total of $251,000 was spent on projects associated with reserves that were carried as PUD reserves at the end of 2008. All of those expenditures resulted in a conversion from proved undeveloped to proved developed reserves during the year. All of our PUD reserve development activity occurred in North America.
Proved Reserves
As of December 31, 2009, we had 4.5 million Boe of proved oil and natural gas reserves, including 2.2 million barrels of oil and 13.7 million Mcf of natural gas. Using same prices as prices used for the reserve report, the estimated standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows was $38.9 million. The following table sets forth a summary of our estimated net proved reserve information as of December 31, 2009:
Platinum’s estimated recoverable proved reserves have been determined using standard geological and engineering methods generally accepted by the petroleum industry and in accordance with SEC financial accounting and reporting standards. The estimated present value of proved reserves does not give effect to indirect expenses such as general and administrative expenses, debt service, depletion, depreciation and amortization, and does not include any economic impact that may result from our hedging activities.
We engaged Williamson Petroleum Consultants, Inc. ("WPC"), independent petroleum engineers, to estimate our net proved reserves, projected future production, estimated future net revenue attributable to our proved reserves, and the present value of such estimated future net revenue as of December 31, 2009. WPC’s estimates were based upon a review of production histories and other geologic, economic, ownership and engineering data, much of which is provided by the Company. For example, we provide to WPC the estimated amount and timing of future operating costs and development costs which may in fact vary considerably from historical results. In addition, as various economic parameters change from year to year the estimate of proved reserves also may change.
In accordance with applicable financial accounting and reporting standards of the SEC, the estimates of our proved reserves and the present value of proved reserves set forth herein are made using average oil and gas sales prices for the preceding 12 months and are held constant throughout the life of the properties. Estimated quantities of proved reserves and their present value are affected by changes in oil and gas prices. The adjusted average prices utilized for the purposes of estimating our proved reserves and the present value of proved reserves as of December 31, 2009 were $56.63 per Bbl of oil and $3.25 per Mcf of gas, as compared to $41.92 per Bbl of oil and $5.29 per Mcf of gas as of December 31, 2008.
The reserve information shown is estimated. The accuracy of any reserve estimate is a function of the quality of available geological, geophysical, engineering and economic data, the precision of the engineering and geological interpretation and judgment. The estimates of reserves, future cash flows and present value are based on various assumptions, including those prescribed by the SEC, and are inherently imprecise. Although we believe these estimates are reasonable, actual future production, cash flows, taxes, development expenditures, operating expenses and quantities of recoverable oil and natural gas reserves may vary substantially from these estimates. Also, the use of a 10% discount factor for reporting purposes may not necessarily represent the most appropriate discount factor, given actual interest rates and risks to which our business or the oil and natural gas industry in general are subject.
Drilling Activity
The following table sets forth the number of gross development wells and net development wells (based on our proportionate working interest) drilled in which we participated during 2009 and 2008. No exploratory wells were drilled during the presented periods.
The information contained in the foregoing table should not be considered indicative of our future drilling performance, nor should it be assumed that there is any necessary correlation between the number of productive wells drilled and the amount of oil and gas that may ultimately be recovered.
Volumes, Prices and Production Costs
The following table sets forth certain information regarding the production volumes, average volume weighted sales prices received, and average production costs associated with our sales of oil and gas for the periods indicated:
(a)
No derivatives were designated as cash flow hedges in the table above. All gains or losses on settled derivatives were included in change in fair value of commodity derivatives.
(b)
Includes direct lifting costs (labor, repairs and maintenance, materials and supplies), workover costs, administrative costs of production offices, insurance and property and severance taxes.
Total revenues and operating expenses should be included in table above.
Item 3.