ITEM 2. PROPERTIES.
Corporate office
Our principal office is located at 8 Greenway Plaza, Suite 1000, Houston, Texas 77046. Our telephone number is (713) 850-1400.
Real Estate Investment Properties:
During the period from April 19, 2005 (inception) to December 31, 2012, we have acquired interests in nine properties. We wholly-own two properties and have investments in seven properties through joint venture arrangements. We believe our properties are suitable for their intended use and are adequately insured.
As of December 31, 2012, we owned interests in the following properties, all of which are located in Texas:
(1)
Percent leased is calculated as (i) GLA under commenced leases as of December 31, 2012, divided by (ii) total GLA, expressed as a percentage.
(2)
Annualized base rent is calculated by multiplying (i) monthly base rent as of December 31, 2012 by (ii) 12. Annualized base rent represents base rents in place on leases with rent having commenced as of December 31, 2012 and does not reflect straight-line rent or other adjustments under GAAP. Our leases do not contain material tenant concessions or rent abatements.
(3)
Properties are owned through a joint venture that is not consolidated in our financial statements.
(4)
As of December 31, 2012 this property was occupied by a tenant with a temporary lease.
(5)
This property is currently under redevelopment.
(6)
Represents weighted average percent leased.
The majority of our properties have leases that are either leased directly to or guaranteed by the lessee’s parent company, not just the operator of the individual location, and are in areas of substantial retail shopping traffic. Our strategy is to acquire properties that attract tenants that provide basic staples and convenience items to local customers. We believe that sales of these items are less sensitive to business cycle fluctuations than higher priced retail items.
Operating
Properties - Our operating properties consist primarily of multi-tenant centers and mixed-use properties. These investments are primarily shopping centers that are grocery-anchored or mixed-use properties whose tenants consist of national, regional and local retailers. Our grocery-anchored shopping centers are anchored by an established grocery store operator in the region. Our mixed-use properties consists of a combination of office and hospitality tenants that are typically anchored by a combination of national and regional tenants that provide customer traffic and tenant draw for specialty and restaurant tenants that support the local consumer. We also own shopping centers that are leased to national drug stores, national restaurant chains, national value-oriented retail stores and other regional and local retailers. Of our nine properties in which we own an interest, Lantern Lane, Westside Plaza, Casa Linda, Berkeley Square, Preston Park Gold and Woodlake Square are operating.
Development and
Redevelopment Properties - We have also invested in development and redevelopment properties, either directly or indirectly through joint ventures. The amount of equity committed to development and redevelopment projects is generally between 25% and 100% of the total cost of the project, with the remaining costs being funded through lines of credit, construction financing or other property-level mortgage financing. Our 5433 Westheimer, Woodlake Pointe and Preston Towne Crossing properties were under redevelopment as of December 31, 2012.
During redevelopment our General Partner will hire a general contractor to provide construction and construction management services for each of our development and redevelopment projects. The general contractor will be entitled to fees for providing these services, and these fees may be paid on a fixed price basis or a cost plus basis. In the future, we may engage ARIC, an affiliate of our General Partner, for construction management services. In these cases, such services will be provided on terms and conditions no less favorable to us than can be obtained from independent third parties for comparable services in the same location.
Each of our development and redevelopment projects has and will have a project manager assigned to ensure all necessary functions are performed. The project manager is responsible for coordinating all phases of the project, including the feasibility study of each project prior to the commencement of development and much of the pre-development work. Each development also has a construction manager who is responsible for coordinating all the outsourced trades including architectural, engineering, environmental and construction contractors. The construction manager will be an employee of ARIC in the event that ARIC is providing construction management services to a development project. The project and construction managers are jointly responsible for the preparation and adherence to the development budgets. Capital inflows and outflows are carefully tracked and compared against budgets. Actual costs versus budget reports are prepared on a monthly basis for review by various parties including the development team, management team and lenders. The project and construction managers work in unison to ensure each project is built within budget and on a timely basis.
Net Leases - We typically enter into net leases with our tenants. “Net leases” are leases that typically require tenants to pay all or a majority of the operating expenses, including real estate taxes, special assessments and sales and use taxes, utilities, insurance and building repairs related to the property, in addition to base rent. Our leases do not contain material tenant concessions or rent abatements. Since each lease is an individually negotiated contract between two or more parties, each contract will have different obligations for both the landlord and tenant. Many large national tenants have standard lease forms that generally do not vary from property to property, and we have limited ability to revise the terms of leases for those tenants. We have acquired and may in the future acquire properties under which the lease terms have partially run. We evaluate the lease term risk based on criteria such as whether the property is in an attractive location, is difficult to replace or has other significant favorable real estate attributes. Some of our leases contain provisions that increase the amount of base rent payable at points during the lease term and/or provide for percentage rent that can be calculated by a number of factors. Our leases generally require that each tenant obtain, at its own expense, property insurance naming the above parties as an insured party for fire and other casualty losses in an amount that generally equals the full replacement value of such property. Our tenants are generally required to obtain our General Partner’s approval of all such insurance.
Description of Our Wholly-Owned Properties
Lantern Lane
On September 29, 2006, through our wholly-owned special purpose entity, AmREIT Lantern Lane, LP, we purchased the Lantern Lane property, a 79,462 square foot retail shopping center located in Houston, Texas from an unaffiliated third-party. Our mortgage loan of $13.4 million on this property matured in September 2011. Upon maturity, we entered into a new $12.8 million secured term loan due April 7, 2013. On November 30, 2012, we modified the terms of our Lantern Lane mortgage to extend the due date, and we entered into a second loan for $2.2 million in net cash proceeds to us. The modifications include interest-only payments until the extended maturity date of November 2015 at an interest rate of one-month LIBOR rate plus 2.75%. We acquired this property with the expectation that it would provide a stable stream of rental income and have no plans to redevelop the property. Rice Food Market, Inc. is the largest tenant occupying 21,450 square feet with a lease scheduled to expire in January 2018. This lease has been assumed by the Fresh Market in connection with the acquisition of Rice Food market, Inc. The store closed in early 2013 for renovations and its planned re-opening as the Fresh Market is expected in November 2013. Other major tenants include CVS Pharmacy and Fidelity Investments.
Westside Plaza
On September 30, 2005, we purchased the Westside Plaza property, a 43,021 square foot retail shopping center located in Houston, Texas from an unaffiliated third-party. We assumed two 20-year mortgage loans with a June 2015 maturity as part of the acquisition of this property. The first loan in the amount of $10.2 million bears an annual interest rate of 5.62% and had an outstanding principal balance of $9.1 million as of December 31, 2012. The second loan in the amount of $640,000 bears an annual interest rate of 12.75% and had an outstanding principal balance of $633,000 as of December 31, 2012. We are electing to delay scheduled payments on our Westside Plaza debt, and we are in negotiations with the lender to refinance our Westside Plaza debt. We completed the redevelopment of the property by adding aesthetic enhancements during 2007. The Westside Plaza property is anchored by Trend Mall, which occupies 24,500 square feet with a lease scheduled to expire in June 2016.
Description of Our Joint Venture Properties
5433 Westheimer
On March 31, 2006, through a special purpose entity, 5433 Westheimer, LP, we purchased a 50% interest in the 5433 Westheimer property, a 133,881 square foot, 11 story office building and a 152-room hotel located in Houston, Texas from a third party. Our joint venture partner, Songy Partners, holds the other 50% interest in the joint venture. Additionally, in 2008, we acquired an additional 7.5% ownership interest from Songy Partners. The property is accounted for under the equity method of accounting as it does not meet all the conditions for consolidation. We completed an initial redevelopment of the office building and construction of a 152-room hotel in October 2009 at a total cost of approximately $31.7 million.
In January 2008, we mortgaged our interest in this property with a $32.9 million, three-year variable-rate loan with a third-party lender. The debt matured unpaid on December 31, 2011. On April 10, 2012, 5433 Westheimer, LP sold the 152-room hotel for $28.7 million, and net the proceeds were used to pay down the loan balance to $3.8 million. 5433 Westheimer, LP continues to own and operate the office building. The lender extended the remaining debt outstanding through October 31, 2012. On October 19, 2012, 5433 Westheimer, LP refinanced this debt with a five-year term loan in the amount of $8.7 million, including amounts to be funded in the form of construction draws related to the planned redevelopment at the property. We and our joint venture partner are joint and several guarantors of 25% of this debt. We have initiated a redevelopment plan, primarily in the form of building and site improvements that we believe will allow for lease up of vacancy of the property at improved rental rates. We estimate that the redevelopment will cost approximately $6.8 million (including lease-up costs), which we expect to fund with the property’s operating cash flows and construction draws under the loan.
Casa Linda
On December 8, 2006, through a joint venture arrangement with MIG IV, we acquired a 50% interest in the Casa Linda property, a 324,569 square foot retail shopping center located in Dallas, Texas with our joint venture partner retaining the remaining 50% interest in the joint venture. The property was purchased from an unaffiliated third-party. The property is secured by a $38.0 million, seven-year mortgage loan with a maturity of January 2014. The loan bears an annual interest rate of 5.48% and is interest-only until maturity. Albertson’s is the largest tenant, occupying 59,561 square feet with a lease scheduled to expire in July 2016. Additional tenants include Petco, Starbucks, Wells Fargo, Chili’s, Just Fitness 4 U and Supercuts. The property was originally built between 1946 and 1949. During 2012, we and MIG IV initiated a lease-up strategy for the property that includes certain tenant build-out and site improvements, to support a refinance of the property’s mortgage loan prior to maturity. The joint venture has made progress with signing new leases, but additional improvements and vacancy lease-up are needed. The joint venture will likely require a one-year extension of the loan to complete this strategy so that we can later accomplish a long-term refinance of the property. We believe we will be successful in obtaining a one-year extension based on our preliminary discussions with the lending agent; however, no assurances can be given that we will be successful in obtaining the extension We do not guarantee this debt and our risk of loss is limited to our investment balance in the Casa Linda joint venture of $2.7 million as of December 31, 2012. We expect that our portion of these costs (50%) to be incurred as part of this strategy is approximately $1.5 million. We expect to fund our capital requirements with cash on hand, cash proceeds from the anticipated sale of a portion of the land and single tenant building at our Woodlake Pointe property (discussed below) and operating cash flows.
Woodlake Pointe
On November 21, 2007, through a joint venture arrangement with MIG IV and ARIC, we acquired a 30% interest in AmREIT Westheimer Gessner, L.P., which owns the Woodlake Pointe property, a 82,120 square foot retail shopping center located in Houston, Texas. Our joint venture partners acquired the remaining 70% interest in the joint venture. The property was purchased from an unaffiliated third-party. On May 29, 2008, the joint venture acquired a tract of land adjacent to the Woodlake Pointe property. During November 2011, AmREIT Westheimer Gessner, L.P. obtained a $6.7 million construction loan to fund its redevelopment. As of December 31, 2012, AmREIT Westheimer Gessner, L.P. had incurred approximately $5.7 million in redevelopment costs, including tenant improvements and leasing costs. Because this property was under redevelopment, and the tenant of the original shopping center was temporarily occupying the premises, we recorded rental income from the original shopping center as a reduction to the basis of the asset.
In October 2012, the construction of a new 45,000 square foot building on the Woodlake Pointe property was completed and opened for business. On March 15, 2013, our Woodlake Pointe joint venture entered into a letter of intent to sell a portion of the land and the single tenant building for $12.0 million to an unrelated third party. The land and building are secured by a $6.2 million loan that will be repaid in full with proceeds from the sale. The sale is expected to close in the second quarter of 2013, and our portion of the net cash proceeds (30%) is approximately $1.5 million. We plan to use the proceeds to fund the Casa Linda lease-up strategy (discussed above) and for working capital needs.
Properties in Plano, Texas Owned Through a Joint Venture with an Affiliate of JPMorgan
Through our investment in PTC/BSQ, we purchased a 20% interest in Preston Towne Crossing, Berkeley Square and Preston Park Gold. The joint venture, 80% owned by JPMorgan Asset Management, acquired each of these shopping centers from unrelated third parties. These retail centers, further described below, are adjacent to one another in Plano, Texas, and total 456,935 square feet of GLA.
Preston Towne Crossing and Berkeley Square. The 221,077-square-foot Preston Towne Crossing and the 125,333-square-foot Berkeley Square were 80% and 85% occupied, respectively at December 31, 2012 and are located on 35 acres at the northeast corner of Preston Road and West Park Boulevard in Plano. The shopping centers were developed during 1986 and 1987 and underwent renovations during 2007 and 2008. During the second quarter of 2011, the joint venture acquired the vacant anchor building within the Preston Towne Crossing shopping center, and we invested $1.8 million (our funding requirement of 20%). The properties also include undeveloped land behind Berkeley Square that we believe can be sold to an office or residential developer.
In December 2011, the joint venture refinanced the mortgage loans with a $44.4 million term loan maturing December 27, 2014. Preston Park Gold was added as additional security under the loan. The loan bears interest at LIBOR plus 2.6% and had an outstanding balance of $44.4 million as of December 31, 2012. The loan has two one-year extension options, provided certain conditions are met. The term loan included $7.0 million held in escrow to fund capital expenditures for the redevelopment of the anchor building as well as improvements to the remaining shopping center. Redevelopment began in January 2012 and is expected to be completed by June 2013. As of December 31, 2012, approximately $6.9 million of planned redevelopment costs have been incurred out of a total expected cost of $7.0 million, including tenant improvements and leasing costs. In connection with the planned refinance of this joint venture’s debt (See Note 4 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements), the joint venture is contemplating additional redevelopment of between $5.0 million and $6.0 million.
Major tenants of the Preston Towne Crossing property include REI, which occupies 27,000 square feet, Trader Joes, which occupies 15,133 square feet and Old Navy which occupies 15,000 square feet. Leases for these tenants are scheduled to expire 2015, 2022 and 2022, respectively. Additional tenants include Plaza Park Salon, Half Price Books and Ulta. Studio Movie Grill Concepts, Ltd. is the largest tenant of Berkeley Square occupying 30,977 square feet with a lease scheduled to expire in February 2015.
Preston Park Gold. The 97,558-square-foot Preston Park Gold, which is the former Target/Vineyard Antique Mall building, is located between Preston Towne Crossing and Berkeley Square and was redeveloped in 2007. Major tenants of the Preston Gold property include Gold’s Gym which occupies 49,427 square feet and Chair King which occupies 27,438 square feet. Leases for these tenants are scheduled to expire in October 2025 and June 2017, respectively. Along with Preston Town Crossing and Berkeley Square described above, Preston Park Gold secured the aforementioned $44.4 million loan that was made in December 2011.
Woodlake Square
On August 31, 2007, through a joint venture arrangement with affiliates of our General Partner, MIG IV and ARIC, we acquired a 30% interest in the Woodlake Square property, a 205,522 square foot retail shopping center located in Houston, Texas, from an unaffiliated third-party. Our joint venture partners acquired the remaining 70% interest in the joint venture.
In July 2010, we and our affiliated joint venture partners on our Woodlake Square property, MIG IV and ARIC, entered into a joint venture agreement with a third party. As part of this joint venture agreement, we and our affiliates sold 90% of our interest in the property and retained a 10% ownership interest, which carries a promoted interest in cash flows once an 11.65% preferred return threshold is met on the project. Subsequent to this transaction, we retained a 3% ownership interest in the joint venture. The sale generated cash proceeds of
approximately $3.4 million, and the remaining $23.8 million loan on the property was paid in full at closing. Additionally, we recorded an impairment of approximately $185,000 on this investment, which has been included in equity in losses from non-consolidated subsidiaries in our consolidated statements of operations. The new entity in which we now own a 3% interest, VIF II/AmREIT Woodlake L.P., is the borrower under a $20.9 million loan. The maturity of the new loan is July 2013, and it includes a one year extension option. We, along with our affiliate MIG IV are joint and several repayment guarantors on the loan. We continue to account for this investment using the equity method given our ability to significantly influence the property’s operations.
Redevelopment of the property began in July 2010 and was completed in April 2011. As of December 31, 2012, VIF II/AmREIT Woodlake L.P. had incurred approximately $6.8 million with a total expected cost of approximately $8.3 million, including additional tenant improvements and leasing costs. The property was 88% leased as of December 31, 2012.
Randall’s is the largest tenant with 59,230 of leased square feet that expires in 2036. Additional tenants include Walgreen’s, Jos. A. Bank Clothiers and Ragin Cajun.
Disposition of Property
Our Olmos Creek mortgage of $11.2 million matured unpaid on November 1, 2011. The lender subsequently sold the note (including the right to the property) in January 2012. We entered into a settlement agreement with the new owner of the mortgage and delivered the property to the purchaser on February 6, 2012 in exchange for a release of the obligations under the Olmos Creek mortgage. The settlement of the debt resulted in a gain on debt extinguishment of approximately $1.5 million, which represents the amount by which the balance owed under the note payable exceeds the estimated fair value of the property.
On February 25, 2011, we sold the Market at Lake Houston property to AmREIT, which generated net proceeds of $4.5 million and resulted in a gain of $1.7 million. In conjunction with the sale, AmREIT assumed outstanding debt in the amount of $15.7 million that was secured by the property. This property was owned 60% by us and 40% by an affiliated fund. The transaction was completed at fair market value pursuant to an independent appraisal process.
Location of Properties and Concentration of Credit Risk
We have geographic concentration in our property holdings as all of our properties are located in Texas. The economies of the Texas metropolitan markets where we own investments have a significant impact on our cash flow and the value of our properties. Although a downturn in the economies of these metropolitan areas could adversely affect our business, general retail and grocery-anchored shopping centers that provide necessity-type items tend to be less sensitive to macroeconomic downturns. We also have tenant concentration in our properties.
The following table shows tenants which occupy 10% or more of the GLA for each property in which we own an interest and the lease expirations of such tenants, each as of December 31, 2012, assuming that tenants exercise no renewal options, but do exercise early termination rights.
Lease Expirations
The following table shows lease expirations for our two consolidated properties as of December 31, 2012, during each of the next ten years and thereafter, assuming that tenants exercise no renewal options, but do exercise early termination rights.
The following table shows lease expirations for our seven non-consolidated properties as of December 31, 2012, during each of the next ten years and thereafter, assuming that tenants exercise no renewal options, but do exercise early termination rights.
ITEM 3.