ITEM 2. PROPERTIES.
Corporate office
Our principal office is located at 8 Greenway Plaza, Suite 1000, Houston, Texas 77046. Our telephone number is (713) 850-1400.
Real Estate Investment Properties:
During the period from April 19, 2005 (inception) to December 31, 2011, we have acquired interests in ten properties. We directly own three properties and have investments in seven properties through joint venture arrangements. We believe our properties are suitable for their intended use and are adequately insured.
As of December 31, 2011, we owned interests in the following properties, all of which are located in Texas:
- 9 -
(1)
Percent leased is calculated as (i) GLA under commenced leases as of December 31, 2011, divided by (ii) total GLA, expressed as a percentage.
(2)
Annualized base rent is calculated by multiplying (i) monthly base rent as of December 31, 2011 by (ii) 12. Annualized base rent represents base rents in place on leases with rent having commenced as of December 31, 2011 and does not reflect straight-line rent or other adjustments under GAAP. Our leases do not contain material tenant concessions or rent abatements.
(3)
Our Olmos Creek mortgage of $11.2 million matured unpaid on November 1, 2011. The lender subsequently sold the note (including the right to the property) in January 2012. We entered into a settlement agreement with the new owner of the mortgage and delivered the property to the purchaser on February 6, 2012 in exchange for a release of substantially all of the obligations under the Olmos Creek mortgage. As a result, we no longer own this property. See also Note 7 in The Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
(4)
Properties are owned through a joint venture that is not consolidated in our financial statements.
(5)
As of December 31, 2011 this property was occupied by a tenant with a temporary lease.
(6)
This property is currently under redevelopement.
(7)
Represents weighted average percent leased.
The majority of our properties have leases that are either leased directly to or guaranteed by the lessee’s parent company, not just the operator of the individual location, and are in areas of substantial retail shopping traffic. Our strategy is to acquire properties that attract tenants that provide basic staples and convenience items to local customers. We believe that sales of these items are less sensitive to business cycle fluctuations than higher priced retail items.
Approximately 60% of our capital received from our Offering was invested in existing shopping centers with operating histories and leased to high quality tenants, consisting primarily of multi-tenant centers and mixed-use properties. These investments are primarily shopping centers that are grocery-anchored or mixed-use properties whose tenants consist of national, regional and local retailers. Our grocery-anchored shopping centers are anchored by an established grocery store operator in the region. Our mixed-use properties consists of a combination of office and hospitality tenants that are typically anchored by a combination of national and regional tenants that provide customer traffic and tenant draw for specialty and restaurant tenants that support the local consumer. We also own shopping centers that are leased to national drug stores, national restaurant chains, national value-oriented retail stores and other regional and local retailers.
- 10 -
Approximately 40% of our capital received from our Offering was invested in development and redevelopment properties, either directly or indirectly through joint ventures. We continue to seek to develop properties in locations that provide limited competition, quality demographics and strong market fundamentals. We intend to commence the leasing process before construction of a particular development property. The amount of equity committed to development and redevelopment projects is generally between 25% and 100% of the total cost of the project, with the remaining costs being funded through lines of credit, construction financing or other property level mortgage financing. During 2011, we completed the redevelopment of our Woodlake Square property, and we have initiated the redevelopment of Woodlake Pointe and Preston Towne Crossing.
Development and Redevelopment Properties - Our General Partner may hire a general contractor to provide construction and construction management services for each of our development and redevelopment projects. The general contractor will be entitled to fees for providing these services, and these fees may be paid on a fixed price basis or a cost plus basis. AmREIT Construction Company, an affiliate of our General Partner, has historically provided construction and construction management services for many of our development and redevelopment projects. During 2008, AmREIT Construction Company ceased providing these services. In the future, we may engage ARIC, also an affiliate of our General Partner, for construction management services. In these cases, such services will be provided on terms and conditions no less favorable to us than can be obtained from independent third parties for comparable services in the same location.
Each of our development and redevelopment projects has and will have a project manager assigned to ensure all necessary functions are performed. The project manager is responsible for coordinating all phases of the project, including the feasibility study of each project prior to the commencement of development and much of the pre-development work. Each development also has a construction manager who is responsible for coordinating all the outsourced trades including architectural, engineering, environmental and construction contractors. The construction manager will be an employee of ARIC in the event that ARIC is providing construction management services to a development project. The project and construction managers are jointly responsible for the preparation and adherence to the development budgets. Capital inflows and outflows are carefully tracked and compared against budgets. Actual costs versus budget reports are prepared on a monthly basis for review by various parties including the development team, management team and lenders. The project and construction managers work in unison to ensure each project is built within budget and on a timely basis.
Net Leases - We typically enter into net leases with our tenants. “Net leases” are leases that typically require tenants to pay all or a majority of the operating expenses, including real estate taxes, special assessments and sales and use taxes, utilities, insurance and building repairs related to the property, in addition to base rent. Our leases do not contain material tenant concessions or rent abatements. Since each lease is an individually negotiated contract between two or more parties, each contract will have different obligations for both the landlord and tenant. Many large national tenants have standard lease forms that generally do not vary from property to property, and we have limited ability to revise the terms of leases for those tenants. We have acquired and may in the future acquire properties under which the lease terms have partially run. We evaluate the lease term risk based on criteria such as whether the property is in an attractive location, is difficult to replace or has other significant favorable real estate attributes. Some of our leases contain provisions that increase the amount of base rent payable at points during the lease term and/or provide for percentage rent that can be calculated by a number of factors. Our leases generally require that each tenant obtain, at its own expense, property insurance naming the above parties as an insured party for fire and other casualty losses in an amount that generally equals the full replacement value of such property. Our tenants are generally required to obtain our General Partner’s approval of all such insurance.
Description of Our Wholly-Owned Properties
Olmos Creek
On June, 30, 2006, through our wholly-owned special purpose entity, AmREIT Olmos Creek, LP, we purchased the Olmos Creek property, a 102,178 square foot retail shopping center located in San Antonio, Texas. Major tenants include H-E-B, a regional grocer, as the largest tenant occupying 55,513 square feet, Subway, UPS Store and Edward Jones. The property was purchased from an unaffiliated third-party. Subsequent to the acquisition, we obtained a 10-year interest-only mortgage loan. This debt matured unpaid on November 1, 2011. The lender
- 11 -
subsequently sold the note (including the right to the property) in January 2012. We entered into a settlement agreement with the new owner of the mortgage and delivered the property to the purchaser on February 6, 2012 in exchange for a release of substantially all of the obligations under the Olmos Creek mortgage. As a result, we no longer own this property. See also Note 7 to The Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
Lantern Lane
On September 29, 2006, through our wholly-owned special purpose entity, AmREIT Lantern Lane, LP, we purchased the Lantern Lane property, a 79,462 square foot retail shopping center located in Houston, Texas from an unaffiliated third-party. Our mortgage loan of $13.4 million on this property matured in September 2011. Upon maturity, we entered into a new $12.8 million secured term loan. The proceeds received from the loan, along with cash on hand and approximately $1.5 million borrowed from AmREIT were used to repay the original $13.4 million mortgage. The new loan requires interest only payments until maturity on April 7, 2013 and bears interest at the one-month LIBOR rate plus 3.00%. We acquired this property with the expectation that it would provide a stable stream of rental income and have no plans to redevelop the property. Rice Food Market, Inc. is the largest tenant occupying 21,450 square feet with a lease scheduled to expire in January 2018. Subsequent to December 31, 2011 we have signed leases with four tenants to occupy 21,084 additional square feet of GLA. With the newly signed leases and other expected tenant activity, our occupancy will be in excess of 98% at this property. Because these leases have not commenced rent as of December 31, 2011, they are not included in the leased area in our property table above.
Westside Plaza
On September 30, 2005, we purchased the Westside Plaza property, a 43,021 square foot retail shopping center located in Houston, Texas from an unaffiliated third-party. We assumed two 20-year mortgage loans with a June 2015 maturity as part of the acquisition of this property. The first loan in the amount of $10.2 million bears an annual interest rate of 5.62% and had an outstanding principal balance of $9.3 million as of December 31, 2011. The second loan in the amount of $640,000 bears an annual interest rate of 12.75% and had an outstanding principal balance of $633,000 as of December 31, 2011. We completed the redevelopment of the property by adding aesthetic enhancements during 2007. The Westside Plaza property is anchored by Trend Mall, which occupies 24,500 square feet with a lease scheduled to expire in June 2016.
Description of Our Joint Venture Properties
Westheimer
On March 31, 2006, through a special purpose entity, 5433 Westheimer, LP, we purchased a 50% interest in the 5433 Westheimer property, a 133,881 square foot, 11 story office building and a 152-room hotel located in Houston, Texas from a third party. Our joint venture partner, Songy Partners, holds the other 50% interest in the joint venture. Additionally, in 2008, we acquired an additional 7.5% ownership interest from Songy Partners. The property is accounted for under the equity method of accounting as it does not meet all the conditions for consolidation. The office building was 51% leased as of December 31, 2011. During 2011, the hotel was approximately 72% occupied, and generated an average daily rate of $109 per room. We completed redevelopment of the office building and construction of a 152-room hotel in October 2009 at a total cost of approximately $31.7 million.
In January 2008, we mortgaged our interest in this property with a $32.9 million, three-year variable-rate loan with a third-party lender. The debt matured unpaid on December 31, 2011, and we obtained an extension from the lender through January 31, 2012. On March 19, 2012, 5433 Westheimer, LP entered into an agreement to sell the hotel for $28.7 million. We expect the sale of the hotel to close during the second quarter of 2012, and all of the proceeds will be used to pay down the loan balance. 5433 Westheimer, LP will continue to own and operate the office building. The lender has issued 5433 Westheimer, LP a term sheet to extend the remaining debt outstanding through October 31, 2012, subject to various due diligence items. 5433 Westheimer, LP is also working to refinance the remaining debt with a new lender, and we believe that it will be able to obtain such refinancing within that timeframe. We and our joint venture partner are joint and several guarantors of 50% of this debt.
- 12 -
Casa Linda Plaza
On December 8, 2006, through a joint venture arrangement with MIG IV, we acquired a 50% interest in the Casa Linda Plaza property, a 324,569 square foot retail shopping center located in Dallas, Texas with our joint venture partner retaining the remaining 50% interest in the joint venture. The property was purchased from an unaffiliated third-party. The property is secured by a seven-year mortgage loan with a maturity of January 2014. The loan was in the amount of $38.0 million, bears an annual interest rate of 5.48% and is interest-only until maturity. Albertson’s is the largest tenant, occupying 59,561 square feet with a lease scheduled to expire in July 2016. Additional tenants include Petco, Starbucks, Wachovia, Chili’s, Blockbuster and Supercuts. The property was originally built between 1946 and 1949. During 2009, we completed a substantial renovation to the Casa Linda property that has allowed the property to maintain its historical character and prominence in the community, while updating the property’s features. The renovation was completed in April 2009 at a cost of $7.1 million, including tenant improvements and leasing costs.
Woodlake Pointe
On November 21, 2007, through a joint venture arrangement with affiliates of our General Partner, MIG IV and ARIC, we acquired a 30% interest in AmREIT Westheimer Gessner, L.P., which owns the Woodlake Pointe property, a 82,120 square foot retail shopping center located in Houston, Texas, with our joint venture partners acquiring the remaining 70% interest in the joint venture. The property was purchased from an unaffiliated third-party. On May 29, 2008, through the same joint venture arrangement, we acquired a 30% interest in a tract of land adjacent to Woodlake Pointe. The acquisition is accounted for as part of AmREIT Westheimer Gessner, L.P.
During November 2011, Woodlake Pointe obtained a $6.7 million construction loan to fund its redevelopment. We are in the anchor leasing stage of development and currently have a signed lease with a large national fitness tenant to construct a 45,000 square foot building on the unimproved land and are in discussions with another anchor tenant for the existing building. Total costs, including tenant improvements and leasing costs, are expected to approximate the $6.7 million construction loan with completion anticipated later in 2012. Because this property is under redevelopment and because the tenant is temporarily occupying the premises, we recorded rental income as a reduction to the basis of the asset. The Urban Rug Outlet lease expired in February 2012.
Properties in Plano, Texas Owned Through a Joint Venture with an Affiliate of JPMorgan
Through our investment in PTC/BSQ, we purchased a 20% interest in Preston Towne Crossing, Berkeley Square and Preston Park Gold. The joint venture, 80% owned by JPMorgan Asset Management, acquired each of these shopping centers from unrelated third parties. These retail centers, further described below, are adjacent to one another in Plano, Texas, and total 460,473 square feet of GLA.
Preston Towne Crossing and Berkeley Square. The 234,044-square-foot Preston Towne Crossing and the 125,333-square-foot Berkeley Square were 55% and 85% occupied, respectively at December 31, 2011 and are located on 35 acres at the northeast corner of Preston Road and West Park Boulevard in Plano. PTC/BSQ assumed mortgage loans in the amount of $22.4 million and $18.1 million encumbering Preston Towne Crossing and Berkeley Square, respectively, both maturing in January 2012. The shopping centers were developed during 1986 and 1987 and underwent renovations during 2007 and 2008 to enhance the facades, complete store pop-ups, upgrade landscaping and add new signage. During the second quarter of 2011, the joint venture acquired the vacant anchor building within the Preston Towne Crossing shopping center, and we invested $1.8 million (our funding requirement of 20%). The properties also include undeveloped land behind Berkeley Square that we believe can be sold to an office or residential developer.
In December 2011, the joint venture refinanced the mortgage loans with a $44.4 million term loan maturing December 27, 2014. Additionally, Preston Park Gold was added as additional security under the loan. The loan bears interest at LIBOR plus 2.6% and had an outstanding balance of $44.4 million as of December 31, 2011. The loan has two one-year extension options, provided certain conditions are met. The term loan includes $7.0 million of capital expenditures, which is included in the $44.4 million balance outstanding and is currently held in escrow and released when the construction costs are incurred. The $7.0 million held in escrow allocates $6.0
- 13 -
million for the estimated costs to redevelop of the recently acquired vacant anchor building within the Preston Towne Crossing shopping center and $1.0 million to improve the remaining Preston Towne Crossing shopping center. Redevelopment began in January 2012 and is expected to be completed in the summer of 2012. Total expected redevelopment costs, which include tenant improvements and leasing costs are estimated at $7.0 million.
Major tenants of the Preston Towne Crossing property include REI, which occupies 27,000 square feet and Park Plaza Salon which occupies 20,000 square feet. Leases for these tenants are scheduled to expire in April 2015 and January 2012, respectively. Studio Movie Grill Concepts, Ltd. is the largest tenant of Berkeley Square occupying 30,977 square feet with a lease scheduled to expire in February 2015. As part of the redevelopment, we entered into new leases with several national retail tenants, including a grocery store chain, for 30,133 square feet of total GLA, which would increase our current occupancy to approximately 76%. Additionally, we are in final negotiations for an additional 16,100 square feet of GLA of leases with two additional tenants. Because these leases have not commenced rent as of December 31, 2011, they are not included in our property table above.
Preston Park Gold. The 101,096-square-foot Preston Park Gold, which is the former Target/Vineyard Antique Mall building, is located between Preston Towne Crossing and Berkeley Square and was redeveloped in 2007. Major tenants of the Preston Gold property include Gold’s Gym, which occupies 49,427 square feet and Chair King which occupies 27,438 square feet. Leases for these tenants are scheduled to expire in October 2024 and June 2017, respectively. As part of refinancing the mortgage loans for Preston Town Crossing and Berkeley Square described above, Preston Park Gold was included in the assets securing the debt.
Woodlake Square
On August 31, 2007, through a joint venture arrangement with affiliates of our General Partner, MIG IV and ARIC, we acquired a 30% interest in the Woodlake Square property, a 205,522 square foot retail shopping center located in Houston, Texas, from an unaffiliated third-party. Our joint venture partners acquired the remaining 70% interest in the joint venture.
In July 2010, we and our affiliated joint venture partners on our Woodlake Square property, MIG IV and ARIC, entered into a joint venture agreement with a third party and we and our affiliates sold 90% of our interest in the property and retained a 10% ownership interest, which carries a promoted interest in cash flows once an 11.65% preferred return threshold is met on the project. Subsequent to this transaction, we retained a 3% ownership interest in the joint venture. The sale generated cash proceeds of approximately $3.4 million, and the remaining $23.8 million loan on the property was paid in full at closing. Additionally, we recorded an impairment of approximately $185,000 on this investment, which has been included in equity in losses from non-consolidated subsidiaries in our consolidated statements of operations. The new entity in which we now own a 3% interest, VIF II/AmREIT Woodlake L.P., is the borrower on a new $20.9 million loan, which has a 3-year term with two one-year extension options, provided certain conditions are met. The maturity of the new loan is July 2017. We, along with our affiliate MIG IV are joint and several repayment guarantors on the loan. We continue to account for this investment using the equity method given our ability to significantly influence the property’s operations.
Redevelopment of the property began in July 2010 and was completed in April 2011. As of December 31, 2011, Woodlake Square had incurred approximately $6.1 million with a total expected cost of approximately $8.2 million, including additional tenant improvements and leasing costs. The property was 74% leased as of December 31, 2011. Randall’s, the largest tenant, signed a new lease in January 2010 that expires in 2035. Additional tenants include Walgreen’s, Jos. A. Bank Clothiers, Ragin Cajun and Woodlake Children’s Center.
Disposition of Property
On February 25, 2011, we sold the Market at Lake Houston property to AmREIT, which generated net proceeds of $4.5 million and resulted in a gain of $1.7 million. In conjunction with the sale, we extinguished outstanding debt in the amount of $15.7 million that was secured by the property. This property was owned 60% by us and 40% by an affiliated fund. The transaction was completed at fair market value pursuant to an independent appraisal process.
- 14 -
Location of Properties and Concentration of Credit Risk
We have geographic concentration in our property holdings as all of our properties are located in Texas. The economies of the Texas metropolitan markets where we own investments have a significant impact on our cash flow and the value of our properties. Although a downturn in the economies of these metropolitan areas could adversely affect our business, general retail and grocery-anchored shopping centers that provide necessity-type items tend to be less sensitive to macroeconomic downturns. We also have tenant concentration in our properties. Rental income generated from H-E-B, a regional grocer, represented 16% of our 2011 rental income. However, with our delivery of our Olmos Creek property to satisfy its loan obligation in January 2012, we will no longer receive significant rental income from H-E-B.
The following table shows our tenants which occupy 10% or more of the rentable square feet for each property in which we own an interest and the lease expirations of such tenants as of December 31, 2011, assuming that tenants exercise no renewal options, but do exercise early termination rights.
(1)
Our Olmos Creek mortgage of $11.2 million matured unpaid on November 1, 2011. The lender subsequently sold the note (including the right to the property) in January 2012. We entered into a settlement agreement with the new owner of the mortgage and delivered the property to the purchaser on February 6, 2012 in exchange for a release of substantially all of the obligations under the Olmos Creek mortgage. As a result, we no longer own this property.
(2)
This property is under development, and this lease represents a temporary lease that expired in February 2012. Because this property is under redevelopment, we recorded rental income as a reduction to the basis of the asset. We are in the anchor leasing stage of development and currently are under letter of intent with a large national fitness tenant for a 45,000 square foot building on the unimproved land and are in discussions with other potential anchor tenants for the existing building and pads.
Lease Expirations
The following table shows lease expirations for our three consolidated properties as of December 31, 2011, during each of the next ten years and thereafter, assuming that tenants exercise no renewal options, but do exercise early termination rights.
- 15 -
The following table shows lease expirations for our seven non-consolidated properties as of December 31, 2011, during each of the next ten years and thereafter, assuming that tenants exercise no renewal options, but do exercise early termination rights.
ITEM 3.