ITEM 2. PROPERTIES.
Real Estate Investment Properties:
During the period from April 19, 2005 (inception) to December 31, 2013, we have acquired interests in eight properties that we currently retain. We directly own two properties and have investments in six properties through joint venture arrangements. During 2013, one of our joint ventures sold the Woodlake Square property. We believe our properties are suitable for their intended use and are adequately insured.
As of December 31, 2013, we owned interests in the following properties, all of which are located in Texas:
(1)
Percent occupied is calculated as (i) GLA under commenced leases as of December 31, 2013, divided by (ii) total GLA, expressed as a percentage.
(2)
ABR is calculated by multiplying (i) monthly base rent as of December 31, 2013, by (ii) 12. ABR represents base rents in place on leases with rent having commenced as of December 31, 2013, and does not reflect straight-line rent or other adjustments under GAAP. Our leases do not contain material tenant concessions or rent abatements.
(3)
Properties are owned through a joint venture that is not consolidated in our financial statements.
(4)
As of December 31, 2013, this property was occupied by a tenant with a temporary lease.
(5)
This property is currently under redevelopment.
(6)
Represents weighted average percent occupied based on GLA.
Operating Properties - Our operating properties consist primarily of multi-tenant centers and mixed-use properties. These investments are primarily shopping centers that are grocery-anchored or mixed-use properties whose tenants consist of national, regional and local retailers. Our grocery-anchored shopping centers are anchored by an established grocery store operator in the region. Our mixed-use properties consists of a combination of office and hospitality tenants that are typically anchored by a combination of national and regional tenants that provide customer traffic and tenant draw for specialty and restaurant tenants that support the local consumer. We also own shopping centers that are leased to national drug stores, national restaurant chains, national value-oriented retail stores and other regional and local retailers. Of our eight properties in which we own an interest, we have designated Lantern Lane, Westside Plaza, Casa Linda, Berkeley Square and Preston Park Gold as operating properties in that they are not currently under development or redevelopment.
Development and Redevelopment Properties -We have also invested in development and redevelopment properties, either directly or indirectly through joint ventures. The amount of equity committed to development and redevelopment projects is generally between 25% and 100% of the total cost of the project, with the remaining costs being funded through lines of credit, construction financing or other property-level mortgage financing. Our 5433 Westheimer, Woodlake Pointe and Preston Towne Crossing properties were under redevelopment as of December 31, 2013.
During redevelopment our General Partner will hire a general contractor to provide construction and construction management services for each of our development and redevelopment projects. The general contractor will be entitled to fees for providing these services, and these fees may be paid on a fixed price basis or a cost plus basis. We have engaged ARIC, an affiliate of our General Partner, for construction management services related to our current redevelopment projects. In these cases, such services will be provided on terms and conditions no less favorable to us than can be obtained from independent third parties for comparable services in the same location.
Each of our development and redevelopment projects has and will have a project manager assigned to ensure all necessary functions are performed. The project manager is responsible for coordinating all phases of the project, including the feasibility study of each project prior to the commencement of development and much of the pre-development work. Each development also has a construction manager who is responsible for coordinating all the outsourced trades including architectural, engineering, environmental and construction contractors. The construction manager will be an employee of ARIC in the event that ARIC is providing construction management services to a development project. The project and construction managers are jointly responsible for the preparation and adherence to the development budgets. Capital inflows and outflows are carefully tracked and compared against budgets. Actual costs versus budget reports are prepared on a monthly basis for review by various parties including the development team, management team and lenders. The project and construction managers work in unison to ensure each project is built within budget and on a timely basis.
Net Leases - We typically enter into net leases with our tenants. “Net leases” are leases that typically require tenants to pay all or a majority of the operating expenses, including real estate taxes, special assessments and sales and use taxes, utilities, insurance and building repairs related to the property, in addition to base rent. Our leases do not contain material tenant concessions or rent abatements. Since each lease is an individually negotiated contract between two or more parties, each contract will have different obligations for both the landlord and tenant. Many large national tenants have standard lease forms that generally do not vary from property to property, and we have limited ability to revise the terms of leases for those tenants. We have acquired and may in the future acquire properties under which the lease terms have partially run. We evaluate the lease term risk based on criteria such as whether the property is in an attractive location, is difficult to replace or has other significant favorable real estate attributes. Some of our leases contain provisions that increase the amount of base rent payable at points during the lease term and/or provide for percentage rent that can be calculated by a number of factors. Our leases generally require that each tenant obtain, at its own expense, property insurance naming the above parties as an insured party for fire and other casualty losses in an amount that generally equals the full replacement value of such property. Our tenants are generally required to obtain our General Partner’s approval of all such insurance.
Description of Our Wholly-Owned Properties
Lantern Lane
On September 29, 2006, through our wholly-owned special purpose entity, AmREIT Lantern Lane, LP, we purchased the Lantern Lane property, a 81,567 square foot retail shopping center located in Houston, Texas from an unaffiliated third party. Our mortgage loan of $13.4 million on this property matured in September 2011. Upon maturity, we entered into a new $12.8 million secured term loan due April 7, 2013. On November 30, 2012, we modified the terms of our Lantern Lane mortgage to extend the due date, and we entered into a second loan for $2.2 million in net cash proceeds to us. The modifications include interest-only payments until the extended maturity date of November 2015 at an interest rate of one-month LIBOR rate plus 2.75%. We acquired this property with the expectation that it would provide a stable stream of rental income and have no plans to redevelop the property. The Fresh Market, Inc. is the largest tenant occupying 21,450 square feet with a lease scheduled to expire in January 2018. This lease has been assumed by the Fresh Market in connection with the acquisition of Rice Food Market, Inc. Other major tenants include CVS/pharmacy and Fidelity Investments.
Westside Plaza
On September 30, 2005, we purchased the Westside Plaza property, a 43,021 square foot retail shopping center located in Houston, Texas from an unaffiliated third party. We assumed two 20-year mortgage loans with a June 2015 maturity as part of the acquisition of this property. The first loan in the amount of $10.2 million bears an annual interest rate of 5.62% and had an outstanding principal balance of $9.0 million as of December 31, 2013. The second loan in the amount of $640,000 bears an annual interest rate of 12.75% and had an outstanding principal balance of $633,000 as of December 31, 2013. We are currently delaying scheduled payments on our Westside Plaza debt, and we are in negotiations with the lender to refinance our Westside Plaza debt. We completed the redevelopment of the property by adding aesthetic enhancements during 2007. The Westside Plaza property is anchored by Trend Mall, which occupies 24,500 square feet with a lease scheduled to expire in June 2016.
Description of Our Joint Venture Properties
Westheimer
On March 31, 2006, through a special purpose entity, 5433 Westheimer, LP, we purchased a 50% interest in the 5433 Westheimer property, a 133,881 square foot, 11 story office building and a 152-room hotel located in Houston, Texas from a third party. Additionally, in 2008, we acquired an additional 7.5% ownership interest from Songy Partners, our joint venture partner who owns the remaining 42.5% interest in the property. The property is accounted for under the equity method of accounting as it does not meet all the conditions for consolidation. We completed an initial redevelopment of the office building and construction of a 152-room hotel in October 2009 at a total cost of approximately $31.7 million.
In January 2008, we mortgaged our interest in this property with a $32.9 million, three-year variable-rate loan with a third party lender. The debt matured unpaid on December 31, 2011. On April 10, 2012, 5433 Westheimer, LP sold the 152-room hotel for $28.7 million, and the net proceeds received were used to pay down the existing loan balance to $3.8 million. 5433 Westheimer, LP continues to own and operate the office building. On October 19, 2012, 5433 Westheimer, LP refinanced this debt with a five-year term loan in the amount of $8.7 million, which includes amounts to be funded in the form of construction draws for the redevelopment of the property. We and our joint venture partner are joint and several guarantors of 25% of this debt. We and our joint venture partner initiated a redevelopment plan, primarily in the form of building and site improvements that we expect will allow for lease-up of the property at improved rental rates. As of December 31, 2013, approximately $10.1 million in redevelopment costs have been incurred out of a total expected cost of approximately $11.9 million (including lease-up costs), and the balance owed on this debt is $7.7 million.
Our 5433 joint venture is currently not in compliance with its debt service coverage ratio covenant and the lender may discontinue funding the remaining redevelopment draws provided for in the loan. We do not believe that the joint venture has sufficient cash on hand to fund remaining development costs solely from its operating cash flows. The loan agreement between the lender and our joint venture requires that the lender be notified of any noncompliance. While we, as the general partner of the joint venture, have not yet notified the lender, we expect to do so in the near term in connection with our plan to refinance this debt. Based upon current estimates of fair value, we believe that there is sufficient equity in the property that supports a successful refinancing of the debt and completing the redevelopment. In the near term, we may be required to help fund our portion of the remaining development through operating cash flows and potential additional loans from AmREIT. While the lender could take possession of the property, we do not believe that they will elect to do so; however, all or a portion of our investment of $2.7 million is subject to risk.
We also serve as a guarantor of this debt (see Note 6 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements); however, we do not believe that we would be required to perform under the guarantee as we believe the fair value of the property exceeds the amount of the loan. Accordingly, we believe that our potential exposure is limited to our investment balance. While we believe that we will be able to successfully refinance the debt, we can provide no assurances that we will be able to do so, or under circumstances and timing that allow us to maximize the value of the property.
Casa Linda
On December 8, 2006, through a joint venture arrangement with MIG IV, we acquired a 50% interest in the Casa Linda property, a 324,569 square foot retail shopping center located in Dallas, Texas with our joint venture partner retaining the remaining 50% interest in the joint venture. The property was purchased from an unaffiliated third party. Albertson’s is the largest tenant, occupying 59,561 square feet with a lease scheduled to expire in July 2016. Additional tenants include Petco, Starbucks, Wells Fargo, Chili’s, Just Fitness 4 U and Supercuts. The property was originally built between 1946 and 1949.
During 2012, we and MIG IV initiated a lease-up strategy at our Casa Linda property. We expect to fund a total of approximately $1.5 million in capital expenditures representing our 50% share of a lease-up strategy at this property. The lease-up strategy includes certain tenant build-out and site improvements. To date, the joint venture has incurred approximately $1.3 million of the planned capital expenditures. Additionally, the joint venture refinanced the $38.0 million mortgage loan on the property on December 27, 2013, with a four-year, non-recourse loan with the opportunity for an additional funding of approximately $4.5 million for the potential acquisition of an adjacent property.
Woodlake Pointe
On November 21, 2007, through a joint venture arrangement with MIG IV and ARIC, we acquired a 30% interest in AmREIT Westheimer Gessner, L.P., which owns the Woodlake Pointe property, a 82,120 square foot retail shopping center located in Houston, Texas. The remaining 70% is owned by affiliated AmREIT entities, MIG IV (60%) and ARIC (10%). During 2011, we signed a lease with a large national fitness tenant, and we completed construction of a 45,000 square foot building on the property during 2012 for a total redevelopment costs of $6.7 million. On September 30, 2013, our Woodlake Pointe joint venture sold the 45,000 square foot building and a land parcel for $12.0 million to an unrelated third party. The land and building were secured by a $6.6 million loan that was repaid in full with proceeds from the sale. We received a distribution of $1.5 million on October 1, 2013 in connection with this sale.
Properties in Plano, Texas Owned Through a Joint Venture with an Affiliate of JPMorgan
Through our investment in PTC/BSQ, we purchased a 20% interest in Preston Towne Crossing, Berkeley Square and Preston Park Gold. The joint venture, 80% owned by JPMorgan Asset Management, acquired each of these shopping centers from unrelated third parties. These retail centers, further described below, are adjacent to one another in Plano, Texas, and total 443,972 square feet of GLA.
Preston Towne Crossing and Berkeley Square. The 221,081 square-foot Preston Towne Crossing and the 125,333 square-foot Berkeley Square were 88% and 92% occupied, respectively, at December 31, 2013, and are located on 35 acres at the northeast corner of Preston Road and West Park Boulevard in Plano. The shopping centers were developed during 1986 and 1987 and underwent renovations during 2007 and 2008. During the second quarter of 2011, the joint venture acquired the vacant anchor building within the Preston Towne Crossing shopping center, and we invested $1.8 million (our funding requirement of 20%). The properties also include undeveloped land behind Berkeley Square that we believe can be sold to an office or residential developer.
We initiated a redevelopment in January 2012 which was substantially completed in the fourth quarter of 2013. We are continuing to lease up the property. As of December 31, 2013, approximately $11.6 million in redevelopment costs have been incurred out of a total expected cost of $11.9 million, including tenant improvements and leasing costs. Our PTC/BSQ joint venture refinanced its debt on June 28, 2013, increasing the total debt from $44.4 million to $54.0 million with an additional $4.5 million available for future capital improvements. The loan has a three-year maturity with two one-year extension options. The joint venture has also entered into an interest rate swap in an equal and offsetting principal amount that converts the variable interest rate on the loan into fixed-rate debt. The joint venture accounts for the swap as a hedge. The fair value of the interest rate swap was a liability of $276,000 at December 31, 2013, as recorded by our joint venture. For the year ended December 31, 2013, our portion of the decrease in fair value totaled $55,000 and is recorded as “equity portion of change in fair value of derivatives held by non-consolidated entity” on our Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Loss. We received a distribution from our PTC/BSQ joint venture in the amount of $1.9 million and repaid approximately $1.4 million of notes payable-related party.
Major tenants of the Preston Towne Crossing property include REI, which occupies 27,000 square feet, Trader Joes, which occupies 15,133 square feet and Old Navy which occupies 15,000 square feet. Leases for these tenants are scheduled to expire in 2015, 2022 and 2022, respectively. Additional tenants include Plaza Park Salon, Half Price Books and Ulta. Studio Movie Grill Concepts, Ltd. is the largest tenant of Berkeley Square occupying 30,977 square feet with a lease scheduled to expire in February 2015.
Preston Park Gold. The 97,558-square-foot Preston Park Gold, which is the former Target/Vineyard Antique Mall building, is located between Preston Towne Crossing and Berkeley Square and was redeveloped in 2007. Major tenants of the Preston Gold property include Gold’s Gym which occupies 49,427 square feet and Chair King which occupies 27,438 square feet. Leases for these tenants are scheduled to expire in October 2025 and June 2017, respectively.
Disposition of Properties
Our Olmos Creek mortgage of $11.2 million matured unpaid on November 1, 2011. The lender subsequently sold the note (including the right to the property) in January 2012. We entered into a settlement agreement with the new owner of the mortgage and delivered the property to the purchaser on February 6, 2012, in exchange for a release of the obligations under the Olmos Creek mortgage. The settlement of the debt resulted in a gain on debt extinguishment of approximately $1.5 million, which represents the amount by which the balance owed under the note payable exceeded the estimated fair value of the property.
On February 25, 2011, we sold the Market at Lake Houston property to AmREIT, which generated net proceeds of $4.5 million and resulted in a gain of $1.7 million. In conjunction with the sale, AmREIT assumed outstanding debt in the amount of $15.7 million that was secured by the property. This property was owned 60% by us and 40% by an affiliated fund. The transaction was completed at fair market value pursuant to an independent appraisal process.
We owned a 3% interest in the Woodlake Square property, a 205,522 square foot retail shopping center located in Houston, Texas, through a joint venture arrangement with affiliates of our General Partner, MIG IV (6% ownership interest) and ARIC (1% ownership interest) and an unaffiliated third party institutional partner (the remaining 90% ownership interest). The joint venture commenced redevelopment of this property in the third quarter of 2010 and completed the redevelopment in April 2011. On February 23, 2012, the joint venture sold a parcel of land that resulted in a gain of approximately $437,000. Our 3% share of this gain is included in our equity in losses from non-consolidated entities on our consolidated statement of operations. On September 18, 2013, the joint venture sold the shopping center to AmREIT for $41.6 million based on arm’s-length negotiations between AmREIT and our third party institutional partner that owned a 90% interest in the property. Our 3% ownership interest in the joint venture also included a promoted interest in cash flows once an 11.65% preferred return threshold was me on the project. The joint venture recorded a gain on sale of $10.4 million. Our share of this gain is included in our income (loss) from non-consolidated entities. We received a distribution of approximately $1.0 million in connection with this sale.
Location of Properties and Concentration of Credit Risk
We have geographic concentration in our property holdings as all of our properties are located in Texas. The economies of the Texas metropolitan markets where we own investments have a significant impact on our cash flow and the value of our properties. Although a downturn in the economies of these metropolitan areas could adversely affect our business, general retail and grocery-anchored shopping centers that provide necessity-type items tend to be less sensitive to macroeconomic downturns. We also have tenant concentration in our properties.
The following table shows tenants which occupy 10% or more of the GLA for each property in which we own an interest and the lease expirations of such tenants, each as of December 31, 2013, assuming that tenants exercise no renewal options, but do exercise any early termination rights.
Lease Expirations
The following table shows lease expirations for our two consolidated properties as of December 31, 2013, during each of the next ten years and thereafter, assuming that tenants exercise no renewal options, but do exercise any early termination rights.
The following table shows lease expirations for our six non-consolidated properties as of December 31, 2013, during each of the next ten years and thereafter, assuming that tenants exercise no renewal options, but do exercise any early termination rights.
ITEM 3.