ITEM 2. PROPERTIES.
Real Estate Investment Properties:
As of December 31, 2014, we have ownership interests in seven properties. We wholly-own one property and have non-controlling interests in six properties through joint venture arrangements. A majority of our properties are located in highly populated, suburban communities in Texas. We believe our properties are suitable for their intended use and are adequately insured.
As of December 31, 2014, we owned interests in the following properties, all of which are located in Texas:
(1)
Percent occupied is calculated as (i) GLA under commenced leases as of December 31, 2014, divided by (ii) total GLA, expressed as a percentage.
(2)
ABR is calculated by multiplying (i) monthly base rent as of December 31, 2014, by (ii) 12 months. ABR represents base rents in place on leases with rent having commenced as of December 31, 2014, and does not reflect straight-line rent or other adjustments under GAAP. Our leases do not contain material tenant concessions or rent abatements.
(3)
Properties are owned through a joint venture that is not consolidated in our financial statements.
(4)
As of December 31, 2014, this property was occupied by a tenant with a temporary lease.
(5)
This property is currently under redevelopment.
(6)
Represents weighted average percent occupied based on GLA.
Operating Properties - Our operating properties consist primarily of multi-tenant, retail shopping centers. The tenants of these investment properties consist of national, regional and local retailers and typically anchored by an established grocery store operator in the region. We also own shopping centers that are leased to national drug stores, national restaurant chains, national value-oriented retail stores and other regional and local retailers. Of our seven properties in which we own an interest, we have designated Westside Plaza, Casa Linda, Berkeley Square and Preston Park Gold as operating properties.
Redevelopment Properties - We have also invested in redevelopment properties, either directly or indirectly through joint ventures. The amount of equity committed to redevelopment projects is generally between 25% and 100% of the total cost of the project, with the remaining costs being funded through lines of credit, construction financing or other property-level mortgage financing. Our 5433 Westheimer, Woodlake Pointe and Preston Towne Crossing properties were under redevelopment as of December 31, 2014.
During redevelopment our General Partner will hire a general contractor to provide construction and construction management services for each of our redevelopment projects. The general contractor will be entitled to fees for providing these services, and these fees may be paid on a fixed price basis or a cost plus basis. We have engaged Edens (and ARIC an affiliate of our General Partner, prior to AmREIT’s merger into Edens) for construction management services related to our current redevelopment projects. In these cases, such services will be provided on terms and conditions no less favorable to us than can be obtained from independent third parties for comparable services in the same location.
Each of our redevelopment projects has and will have a project manager assigned to ensure all necessary functions are performed. The project manager is responsible for coordinating all phases of the project, including the feasibility study of each project prior to the commencement of redevelopment and much of the pre-development work. Each redevelopment also has a construction manager who is responsible for coordinating all the outsourced trades including architectural, engineering, environmental and construction contractors. The construction manager will be an employee of Edens in the event that Edens is providing construction management services to a redevelopment project. The project and construction managers are jointly responsible for the preparation and adherence to the redevelopment budgets. Capital inflows and outflows are carefully tracked and compared against budgets. Actual costs versus budget reports are prepared on a monthly basis for review by various parties including the development team, management team and lenders. The project and construction managers work in unison to ensure each project is built within budget and on a timely basis.
Net Leases - We typically enter into net leases with our tenants. “Net leases” are leases that typically require tenants to pay all or a majority of the operating expenses, including real estate taxes, special assessments and sales and use taxes, utilities, insurance and building repairs related to the property, in addition to base rent. Our leases do not contain material tenant concessions or rent abatements. Since each lease is an individually negotiated contract between us or the joint venture and the tenant, each contract will have different obligations for both the landlord and tenant. Many large national tenants have standard lease forms that generally do not vary from property to property, and we have limited ability to revise the terms of leases for those tenants. We evaluate the lease term risk based on criteria such as whether the property is in an attractive location, is difficult to replace or has other significant favorable real estate attributes. Some of our leases contain provisions that increase the amount of base rent payable at points during the lease term and/or provide for percentage rent that can be calculated by a number of factors. Our leases generally require that each tenant obtain, at its own expense, property insurance naming the above parties as an insured party for fire and other casualty losses in an amount that generally equals the full replacement value of such property. Our tenants are generally required to obtain our General Partner’s approval of all such insurance.
Description of Our Wholly-Owned Property
Westside Plaza
On September 30, 2005, we purchased the Westside Plaza property, a 43,021 square foot retail shopping center located in Houston, Texas from an unaffiliated third party. We completed the redevelopment of the property by adding aesthetic enhancements during 2007. The Westside Plaza property is anchored by Trend Mall, which occupies 24,500 square feet with a lease scheduled to expire in June 2016. We assumed two 20-year mortgage loans with a June 2015 maturity as part of the acquisition of this property- Note A in the amount of $10.2 million with an annual interest rate of 5.62% and Note B in the amount of $640,000 with an annual interest rate of 12.75%.
On June 6, 2014, we modified the Westside Plaza debt. In connection with the modification, we made a payment of approximately $1.2 million, which included a $424,000 principal reduction on the Note A balance, a $357,000 payment of principal and interest that was two months in arrears, a $100,000 loan modification fee, $166,000 of escrows related to property taxes, insurance, and anticipated future leasing costs escrow accounts, and $166,000 in other closing and legal fees. Additionally, under the modified agreement, Note A payments are interest-only at 5.62% and Note B payments are deferred with no interest due until the debt is refinanced or the property is sold (a “capital event”). Upon the occurrence of a capital event, we and the lender will share evenly in any excess proceeds until Note B principal is repaid, after which, we would receive all remaining proceeds. If the proceeds received after a capital event are not sufficient to repay any or all of Note B, the unpaid amount will be forgiven.
Description of Our Joint Venture Properties
5433 Westheimer
On March 31, 2006, through a special purpose entity, 5433 Westheimer, LP, we purchased a 50% interest in the 5433 Westheimer property, a 133,881 square foot, 11 story office building and a 152-room hotel located in Houston, Texas from a third party. Additionally, in 2008, we acquired an additional 7.5% ownership interest from Songy Partners, our joint venture partner who owns the remaining 42.5% interest in the property. The property is accounted for under the equity method of accounting as we and our joint venture partner share equally in decision-making rights. We completed an initial redevelopment of the office building and construction of a 152-room hotel in October 2009 at a total cost of approximately $31.7 million and mortgaged our interest in this property with a $32.9 million, three-year variable-rate loan with a third party lender. The debt matured unpaid on December 31, 2011. On April 10, 2012, 5433 Westheimer, LP sold the 152-room hotel for $28.7 million, and the net proceeds received were used to pay down the existing loan balance to $3.8 million. 5433 Westheimer, LP continues to own and operate the office building.
On October 19, 2012, 5433 Westheimer, LP refinanced this debt with a five-year term loan in the amount of $8.7 million, which includes amounts to be funded in the form of construction draws for the redevelopment of the property. We and our joint venture partner are joint and several guarantors of 25% of this debt. On October 18, 2014, our 5433 Westheimer joint venture modified its mortgage loan. Among other things, the modification waived prior non-compliance with its debt covenants through October 18, 2014, modified ongoing debt service operating covenants, extended the term to October 2017 and extended the interest-only payment terms to October 2015. As of December 31, 2014, this loan had an outstanding balance of $8.2 million. While we serve as guarantor on this debt, we believe that our performance under the guarantee is unlikely as we believe the fair value of the property exceeds the amount of the loan.
We and our joint venture partner initiated a redevelopment plan, primarily in the form of building and site improvements, which was completed as we made the property ready for sale. Redevelopment costs totaled approximately $6.6 million as of December 31, 2014, out of a total expected cost of approximately $8.2 million (including lease-up costs). We and our joint venture partner believe that recent market improvements have made disposition of this property attractive and have begun to market the property for sale.
During 2014, 5433 Westheimer did not have adequate cash to fund the renovation costs needed to ready the property for sale or pay its property taxes due in January 2015. Additionally, the property owed ARIC and us approximately $400,000 in deferred asset management fees and margin taxes. As such, we and the joint venture entered into an advancing promissory note with 10% interest to fund up to approximately $1.5 million to:
•
complete the renovations to ready the property for sale,
•
fund property taxes due in January 2015,
•
roll in accounts payable owed to ARIC and us, and
•
fund remaining working capital needs until the property is sold.
As of December 31, 2014, we have advanced our 5433 Westheimer property $312,000 under this promissory note. The promissory note will be due upon sale of the property.
Based upon estimates of fair value, sufficient equity exists in the property post-renovation to recover our current investment and any current and future loans to the joint venture. However, we can provide no assurances that we will be able to do so, or under circumstances and timing that allow us to maximize the value of the property; thus, all or a portion of our investment of $2.4 million is subject to risk.
Casa Linda
On December 8, 2006, through a joint venture arrangement with MIG III, we acquired a 50% interest in the Casa Linda property, a 324,569 square foot retail shopping center located in Dallas, Texas. The property was purchased from an unaffiliated third-party. Albertson’s is the largest tenant, occupying 59,561 square feet with a lease scheduled to expire in July 2016. Additional tenants include Petco, Starbucks, Wells Fargo, Chili’s, Pei Wei, Just Fitness 4 U and Supercuts. The property was originally built between 1946 and 1949.
During 2012, we and MIG IV initiated a lease-up strategy at our Casa Linda property (a 50% joint venture between us and MIG IV). As of December 31, 2014, the joint venture has incurred approximately $2.6 million of $3.0 million in planned capital expenditures, including certain tenant build-out and site improvements. The property is secured by a $38.0 million mortgage loan that was refinanced in December 2013 with a four-year, non-recourse loan. The new loan contains a provision that would allow for an additional funding of approximately $4.5 million should we elect to acquire an adjacent property. The mortgage matures in December 2017. The mortgage bears interest at a variable rate; however, in connection with the refinancing, we and MIG IV entered into an interest rate cap agreement that provides for a maximum rate of 3% per annum. The interest rate cap was not designated as a hedge for financial reporting purposes, and our portion of the change in fair value is recognized in income (loss) from non-consolidated entities.
Woodlake Pointe
On November 21, 2007, through a joint venture arrangement with MIG IV and ARIC, we acquired a 30% interest in AmREIT Westheimer Gessner, LP, which owns the Woodlake Pointe property, a 82,120 square-foot retail shopping center located in Houston, Texas. The remaining 70% is owned by affiliated Edens entities, MIG IV (60%) and ARIC (10%).
This property is under redevelopment, however, we have experienced challenges in executing a long term lease with a tenant to redevelop the property. While we continue to pursue redevelopment opportunities that will optimize the property’s value, we can provide no assurance that such opportunities will result in a recovery of the property’s book value, or that, if executed, such opportunities would provide an increase in value that would warrant the additional investment, risk and hold period. Accordingly, we reviewed this property for impairment as of December 31, 2014. The property was appraised at approximately $8.2 million. In arriving at our fair value estimate we considered numerous factors. We estimated fair value utilizing both comparable sales information of similar properties assuming a “sell as is” scenario and a discounted cash flow model assuming that the property entered into a long term lease and redeveloped the property. The fair value determined under each of these scenarios was approximately $8.2 million. Accordingly, we recorded an impairment at the property of $2.0 million as of December 31, 2014. $600,000 of which, represents our 30% portion and is included in our loss from non-consolidated entities on our Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Income (Loss).
During 2011, we signed a lease with a large national fitness tenant, and we completed construction of a 45,000 square foot building on the property during 2012 for total redevelopment costs of $6.7 million. On September 30, 2013, our Woodlake Pointe joint venture sold the single-tenant building and land parcel for $12.0 million to an unrelated third party. The land and building were secured by a $6.6 million loan that was repaid in full with proceeds from the sale. We received a distribution of $3.0 million on October 1, 2013 in connection with this sale.
Properties in Plano, Texas Owned Through a Joint Venture with an Affiliate of JPMorgan
Through our investment in PTC/BSQ, we purchased a 20% interest in Preston Towne Crossing, Berkeley Square and Preston Park Gold. The joint venture, 80% owned by JPMorgan Asset Management, acquired each of these shopping centers from unrelated third parties. These retail centers, further described below, are adjacent to one another in Plano, Texas, and total 442,072 square feet of GLA.
Preston Towne Crossing and Berkeley Square. The 221,081 square-foot Preston Towne Crossing and the 125,333 square-foot Berkeley Square are located on 35 acres at the northeast corner of Preston Road and West Park Boulevard in Plano. The shopping centers were developed during 1986 and 1987 and underwent renovations during 2007 and 2008. During the second quarter of 2011, the joint venture acquired the vacant anchor building within the Preston Towne Crossing shopping center, and we invested $1.8 million (our funding requirement of 20%). The properties also include undeveloped land behind Berkeley Square that we believe can be sold to an office or residential developer.
We initiated a redevelopment in January 2012 which was substantially completed in the fourth quarter of 2013. We are continuing to lease up the property. As of December 31, 2014, approximately $11.6 million in redevelopment costs have been incurred out of a total expected cost of $12.4 million, including tenant improvements and leasing costs. Our PTC/BSQ joint venture refinanced its debt on June 28, 2013, increasing the total debt from $44.4 million to $54.0 million with an additional $4.5 million available for future capital improvements. The loan has a three-year maturity with two one-year extension options. The joint venture has also entered into an interest rate swap in an equal and offsetting principal amount that converts the variable interest rate on the loan into fixed-rate debt. The joint venture accounts for the swap as a hedge. The fair value of the interest rate swap was a liability of $177,000 at December 31, 2014, as recorded by our joint venture.
Major tenants of the Preston Towne Crossing property include REI, which occupies 27,000 square feet, Trader Joes, which occupies 15,133 square feet and Old Navy, which occupies 15,000 square feet. Leases for these tenants are scheduled to expire in 2020, 2022 and 2022, respectively. Additional tenants include Plaza Park Salon, Half Price Books and Ulta. Studio Movie Grill Concepts, Ltd. is the largest tenant of Berkeley Square occupying 30,977 square feet with a lease scheduled to expire in February 2025.
Preston Park Gold. The 95,658-square-foot Preston Park Gold, which is the former Target/Vineyard Antique Mall building, is located between Preston Towne Crossing and Berkeley Square and was redeveloped in 2007. Major tenants of the Preston Gold property include Gold’s Gym which occupies 49,427 square feet and Chair King which occupies 27,438 square feet. Leases for these tenants are scheduled to expire in October 2025 and June 2017, respectively.
Disposition of Properties
On June 25, 2014, we sold our Lantern Lane property to AmREIT for $22.7 million, which resulted in net sales proceeds of approximately $7.4 million after repayment of the mortgage loan secured by the property. We made a distribution of approximately $3.7 million on July 23, 2014 to our Limited Partners, and we retained the balance to fund the anticipated capital activities related to our Casa Linda Shopping Center and our 5433 Westheimer property.
We owned a 3% interest in the Woodlake Square property, a 205,522 square foot retail shopping center located in Houston, Texas, through a joint venture arrangement with affiliates of our General Partner, MIG IV (6% ownership interest) and ARIC (1% ownership interest) and an unaffiliated third party institutional partner (the remaining 90% ownership interest). The joint venture commenced redevelopment of this property in the third quarter of 2010 and completed the redevelopment in April 2011. On September 18, 2013, the joint venture sold the shopping center to AmREIT for $41.6 million based on arm’s-length negotiations between AmREIT and our third party institutional partner that owned a 90% interest in the property. Our 3% ownership interest in the joint venture also included a promoted interest in cash flows once an 11.65% preferred return threshold was me on the project. The joint venture recorded a gain on sale of $10.4 million. Our share of this gain is included in our income (loss) from non-consolidated entities. We received a distribution of approximately $1.0 million in connection with this sale.
Location of Properties and Concentration of Credit Risk
We have geographic concentration in our property holdings as all of our properties are located in Texas. The economies of the Texas metropolitan markets where we own investments have a significant impact on our cash flow and the value of our properties. Although a downturn in the economies of these metropolitan areas could adversely affect our business, general retail and grocery-anchored shopping centers that provide necessity-type items tend to be less sensitive to macroeconomic downturns. We also have tenant concentration in our properties.
The following table shows tenants which occupy 10% or more of the GLA for each property in which we own an interest and the lease expirations of such tenants, each as of December 31, 2014, assuming that tenants exercise no renewal options, but do exercise any early termination rights.
Lease Expirations
The following table shows lease expirations for Westside Plaza, our consolidated property, as of December 31, 2014, during each of the next five years, assuming that tenants exercise no renewal options, but do exercise any early termination rights.
(1)
ABR is calculated by multiplying (i) monthly base rent as of December 31, 2014, by (ii) 12 months.
The following table shows lease expirations for our six non-consolidated properties as of December 31, 2014, during each of the next ten years and thereafter, assuming that tenants exercise no renewal options, but do exercise any early termination rights.
(1)
ABR is calculated by multiplying (i) monthly base rent as of December 31, 2014, by (ii) 12 months.
(2)
Includes the expiration of a temporary lease with The Urban Rug Company for 82,120 square feet of Woodlake Pointe.
ITEM 3.