ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
Our Principal Mineral Properties
The Palangana Mine, in Duval County, Texas and the Goliad Project in Goliad County, Texas, are our principal mineral properties.
None of our other properties are currently considered material properties; however, we may plan to conduct further exploration to determine if economic deposits of mineralization exist on these properties.
The following provides information relating to our principal mineral properties:
Palangana Mine, Duval County, Texas
Property Description and Location
Palangana is situated in Duval County, Texas and is located approximately 25 miles west of the town of Alice, 6 miles north of the town of Benavides, 15 miles southeast of the town of Freer and 12 miles southwest of the town of San Diego (Figure 1). Benavides, Freer, and San Diego are small rural agricultural towns with populations of 1,600, 3,000 and 5,000, respectively. Alice has a population of approximately 20,000 and is the county seat of the adjoining Jim Wells County.
Figure 1
Mineral Titles
There are fourteen current leases covering the area of interest of Palangana. The PAA-1 deposit is on the DeHoyos leases while the PAA-2 deposit, the Dome trend and the CC Brine trend are on the Palangana Ranch Management, LLC lease. Bordering the east side of the Palangana Ranch Management, LLC lease is the White Bell Ranch lease, comprised of 1,000 acres, which contains the Jemison Fence and Jemison East trends. The fourth major lease is the Garcia/Booth lease which borders the east side of the De Hoyos property. It contains the NE Garcia and SW Garcia trends.
Current lease ownership is in STMV, which is wholly owned by UEC. The PAA-1 deposit is on the DeHoyos leases while the PAA-2 deposit is on the Palangana Ranch Management, LLC lease.
Accessibility, Climate, Local Resources, Infrastructure and Physiography
Topography, Elevation and Vegetation
Elevations of the Palangana Mine deposits from the surface range from about 410 feet to 500 feet above sea level.
Climate and Length of Operating Season
The region's subtropical climate allows uninterrupted, year-round mining operations. Temperatures during the summer range from 75°F to 95°F, although highs above 100°F are common while winter temperatures range from 45°F to 65°F. Humidity is generally over 85% year-round and commonly exceeds 90% during the summer months. Average annual rainfall is 30 inches. The climate is characterized by a warm desert-like to subtropical climate and low gentle relief with elevations of 300 to 500 feet above sea level.
Physiography
The dome area to the west of the PAA-1 and PAA-2 deposits is a concentric collapsed area with the surrounding landscape being hilly and elevated. Surface water generally drains away from the dome area although no prominent creeks or rivers are evident.
Access to Property
The Palangana ISR Mine, of which PAA-1 and PAA-2 are a part, occurs in the South Texas Uranium Belt between San Antonio and Corpus Christi in Duval County. Corpus Christi is about 65 miles to the east of Palangana. It can be accessed off Texas Highway 44 toward Freer. Halfway between San Diego and Freer is a turn-off to the south called Ranch Road 3196 that runs right through the property about 8 miles from the turn. The road continues southward about 6 miles to the town of Benavides. Access is excellent, with major two lane roads connecting the three surrounding towns and dirt secondary roads connecting Palangana to these. Corpus Christi, 65 miles east, is the largest nearby metropolitan district.
Surface Rights
The uranium leaseholders under most of the current leases have conveyed the surface rights under certain conditions of remuneration. These conditions essentially require payments for surface area taken out of usage.
Local Resources and Infrastructure
As of the date of this report, all the infrastructure is in place including roads and power maintenance faculties. The well control facilities and wellfields for PAA-1 are complete as well which includes over forty injection and production wells. Construction of Palangana's ion-exchange satellite facility and disposal is also complete. In November 2010, the Palangana Mine commenced production and at July 31, 2011, produced 153,000 pounds, including work in process inventory.
Power Supply
Power for operating the wellfields already exists on the property.
Buildings and Ancillary Facilities
All buildings associated with wellfield production exist on site.
Manpower
A nearby workforce of field technicians, welders, electricians, drillers and pipefitters exists in the local communities. The technical workforce for facility operations has largely disappeared from the area although ample qualified resources can be found in the south Texas area from the petrochemical industry.
History
Uranium mineralization was discovered during potash exploration drilling of the Palangana Dome's gypsum-anhydrite cap rock in 1952 by Columbia Southern Inc. ("CSI"), a subsidiary of Pittsburgh Plate Glass Corp. CSI conducted active uranium exploration drilling on the property starting in March 1956. Records of CSI's exploration work are unavailable. However, both CSI and the U.S. Atomic Energy Commission ("USAEC") estimated underground mineable uranium mineralization. The only known details of the estimation method include a 0.15% eU3O8 CoG, a minimum mining thickness of 3 feet, and widely spaced drilling on a nominal 200 foot exploration grid. Union Carbide Corp. ("UCC") acquired the Palangana property in 1958 and initiated underground mine development. Development work was quickly abandoned due to heavy concentrations of H2S gas and UCC dropped the property. UCC reacquired Palangana in 1967 after recognizing that it would be amenable to exploitation by the emerging ISR mining technologies. During the 1960's and 1970's, UCC drilled over 1,000 exploration and development holes and installed over 3,000 injection-production holes in a 31 acre block.
UCC attempted an ISR operation from 1977 through 1979 using a push/pull injection/recovery system. Ammonia was used as the lixiviate that later caused some environmental issues with groundwater. About 340,000lbs of U3O8 were produced from portions of a 31 acre wellfield block. The production pounds indicate a 32% to 34% recovery rate. The push/pull injection/recovery system was later proven to be less productive than well configurations or patterns of injection wells around a recovery well. Further, the wellfield was developed without any apparent regard to the geology of the deposit including disequilibrium. The UCC ISR work was basically conducted at a research level in contrast to the current level of knowledge. The historic production area lies on the western side of the dome.
UCC placed the property leases up for sale in 1980. In 1981, Chevron Corporation (Chevron) acquired the UCC leases and conducted their own resource evaluation. After the price of uranium dropped to under US $10/lb, General Atomics acquired the property and dismantled the processing plant in a property-wide restoration effort. Upon formal approval of the clean up by the Texas Natural Resources Conservation Commission and the United States Nuclear Regulatory Commission, the property was returned to the landowners in the late 1990's. In 2005, Everest Exploration Inc. ("EEI") acquired the Palangana property and later joint ventured with Energy Metals Corp. through the formation of STMV. An independent consultant, Blackstone (2005) estimated inferred resources in an area now referred to as the Dome trend proximal to the dome on the west side north of the prior UCC leach field . In 2006 and 2007, Energy Metals drilled approximately 200 additional confirmation and delineation holes. The PAA-1 and PAA-2 areas were found during this drilling program. In 2008, Energy Metals was acquired by Uranium One. During 2008 and 2009 the remainder of the holes on this project were drilled by Uranium One. During this time the five exploration trends to the east of the dome were identified and partially delineated. In December 2009 we acquired 100% ownership of STMV.
Geological Setting
South Texas geology is characterized by an arcuate belt of Tertiary fluvial clastic units deposited along the passive North American plate. These units strike parallel to the Gulf Coast between the Mexican BORDER=0 and Louisiana within an area known as the Mississippi Embayment. The sedimentary units are primarily of fluvial origin and were deposited by southeasterly flowing streams and rivers. Uranium deposits are contained within fault-controlled roll-fronts in the Pliocene-age Goliad Formation on the flank of the Palangana salt dome. The uranium mineralization in the Goliad Formation at Palangana occurs at a depth of approximately 220 to 600 feet below the surface.
Miocene
The Goliad Formation, host for the Palangana and other uranium deposits, unconformably overlies the Fleming Formation and is composed of three units: a basal fine to coarse-grained to conglomeratic cross-bedded unit with calcareous clay; a middle member of calcareous clay; and an upper unit of sandstone and calcareous clay. Caliche is common, especially in the muddy sediments. The conglomerates contain a variety of lithic fragments from the Fleming and older formations. The Goliad is interpreted to be a braided meander belt fluvial deposit with muds as flood plain or over bank deposits. The sands, and gravels, composed mostly of quartz and chert, are very clean and associated with channels and point bars. Passive margin growth faulting along the South Texas Uranium Belt is common with "down-to-the-coast" normal faults predominating.
The local geology at Palangana is characterized by the occurrence of a Gulf Coast piercement salt dome. This dome is approximately 2 miles in diameter and is overlain by Pliocene sediments of the Goliad Formation. The Palangana dome is marked at the surface by a shallow circular basin surrounded by low hills rising 50 to 80 feet above the basin floor, and hence its Spanish name, Palangana, which translates to "washbasin" in English. The Palangana dome has an almost perfectly circular salt core with a remarkably flat top that is approximately 10,000 feet across and occurs from 800 to 850 feet below the topographic surface. Radial faulting is present in all Goliad sands on the flanks of the dome due to uplift during the intrusion of the dome. Faults and fractures also exist in a random nature dissolved in the sands above the caprock due to solution of the salt dome from groundwater. Once the salt was removed, the overlying sediment collapsed, creating the basin and associated faults.
The Goliad formation at Palangana is composed of fine- to medium-grained, often silty, channel sands interbedded with lenses of mudstone and siltstone. For the most part, the sands are weakly cemented. There is known to be minor faulting on the north end of the PAA-1 deposit. The Palangana area stratigraphy ranges from horizontal to sub-horizontal, with at most, a 2 to 3° southeasterly dip.
Geological Model
Uranium mineralization in the South Texas Uranium Belt occurs as sandstone-hosted roll-front deposits. The deposits are strata-bound, elongate, and often, but not necessarily, occur in the classic "C" or truncated "C" roll configuration. They can be associated with an oxidation front or can be found in a re-reduced condition where an overprint of later reduction from hydrogen sulfide or other hydrocarbon reductant has seeped along faults and fractures. The uranium bearing sandstone units can themselves be separated into several horizons by discontinuous
mudstone units, and separate roll-fronts and sub-rolls can occur in the stacked sandstone sequences.
The generally accepted origin of uranium mineralization in the Goliad Formation is from leaching of intraformational tuffaceous material or erosion of older uranium-bearing strata. The leached uranium was carried by oxygenated ground water in a hexavalent state and deposited where a suitable reductant was encountered. The oxidation/reduction (redox) fronts are often continuous for miles, although minable grade uranium mineralization is not nearly as continuous. The discontinuous nature of uranium mineralization is often characterized as "beads on a string" and is due to sinuous vertical and lateral fluvial facies changes in the permeable sandstone host horizons, coupled with ground water movements and the presence or absence of reducing material.
Figure 4.4 is a schematic view of a typical uranium roll-front configuration.
The red area is the uranium mineralization deposited at the interface between the oxidized (up gradient) sand shown in yellow and the reduced (down gradient) sand shown in gray. The up gradient sand has been altered by oxidizing groundwater that carried the uranium that was deposited in the roll-front at the oxidation/reduction (Redox) interface. The uranium mineralization is hydrologically confined by an upper and lower confining layer of shale or mudstone. At wellfields, production (pumping) wells have been completed near the center of the roll-front and are fed lixiviate (leach solutions) by injection wells on each side of the front.
One item in particular needs to be emphasized in evaluating the Goliad deposits at Palangana, namely: disequilibrium of the roll front wings or limbs. These can carry uranium values although the thickness is usually too thin to chase independently. PFN logging has defensibly shown that often these zones carry significant chemical uranium. One other explanation may be related to the correlation of the mini-roll front data. In some instances what appear to be chemically stable wings or limbs may be other subordinate roll fronts.
Mineralization
All known Goliad formation deposits at Palangana are multiple-stage roll-front-type deposits in a roughly "horseshoe shaped". As uranium-bearing ground water moved from west to east through the region, a redox front was created around a subsurface high of reduced rock proximal to the dome. This reduced ground resulted from the introduction of hydrocarbons or their derivatives, mainly H2S, into the Goliad aquifers through fractures and formational seepage above the dome, providing the environment for uranium precipitation. The Palangana uranium mineralization occurs in the Goliad sandstone unit at depths ranging from 200 to 650 feet below the surface. The favorable sandstone unit is as much as 400 feet thick and is bounded by mudstones. Within this unit are at least six separate sandstone horizons hosting roll-type uranium mineralization. These units are interbedded with mudstones that served as confining aquitards for uraniferous groundwater movement. Mineralization occurs as uraninite and is deposited where the migrating uranium-bearing solutions encountered a suitable reductant. Uranium values in mineralized strata grades from 0.001% to several percent eU3O8. Mineralized thicknesses range from less than 1foot to several tens of feet in multiple, stacked roll front zones.
Identification of the uranium minerals has not been specifically determined for Palangana. Uraninite is commonly found coating quartz grains and within the interstices in most south Texas sand and sandstone tabular and roll-front deposits. Molybdenum commonly occurs as jordisite, a molybdenum sulfide. Molybdenum is a significant accessory to uranium mineralization, with an erratic distribution.
Select core assay reports were reviewed by SRK Consultants, with assays ranging from a background of approximately 50 ppm to as high as 0.23% Mo. More typically, assays range from 0.02% to 0.04% where molybdenum levels are elevated.
Mineralized Zones
As stated previously, mineralization does not occur in all of the Goliad sands nor does it persist in the same sand intervals across the dome area. On the west half of the dome near what is referred to as the Dome trend, UCC developed the "C" sand zone. The NW Garcia and SE Garcia trends to the east of the dome also reside in the "C" sand zone. Also to the east of the dome, the PAA-2 deposit, as well as the CC Brine, Jemison Fence and Jemison East trends all occur in the "E" sand, while the PAA-1 deposit occurs in the "G" sand. Within these mineralized horizons, smaller roll fronts are evident that can be mapped as discrete bodies. Some of these bodies contain economic mineralization while others do not. The mineralized horizons occur as stacked intervals often separated by claystones. Generally they overlap one another but there are differences making a concurrent, multiple-horizon recovery scenario not uniformly effective.
Type, Character and Distribution of Mineralization
The uranium mineralization, as is the case in roll fronts elsewhere, can be significantly out of equilibrium. Consequently, the oxidized portion of the roll front while elevated in gross gamma radiation can be depleted of chemical uranium. Hexavalent uranium in solution in the groundwater ultimately became stabilized in uranium oxide minerals as a function of lower pH and EH (redox potential) that has been caused by a variety of factors but mostly the introduction of hydrogen sulfide and perhaps methane gas along fault traces around the Palangana dome.
Closely associated with this mineralization, is generally the introduction of iron sulfide.
Because of the differing mineral suites, the color of the sand and interbedded clays will vary on either side of the redox front from yellows and orange colors on the oxidized side of the system to greens, blue and dark grey on the reduced side. Accurate lithologic logging is important in order to understand where the drillhole is in relation to the redox interface. Great efforts were taken in the past by Uranium One and its predecessors to document this color change through the use of field photos and field descriptions of drill cuttings that have been archived with the drillhole records.
The width of the reduced portion of the roll front systems at Palangana can vary from approximately 30-40 meters to only a few meters over a short strike distance. The reason for variation in the mineralized width is likely in part attributable to the permeability of the sand system in a particular part of the fluvial channel and the amount of reductant available at the time of the influx of uranium-bearing fluids. Multiple surges in oxidation fronts are believed to have formed the multiple mini-roll fronts within the sands although in many instances there are intervening claystones that could have caused the separation of the roll fronts within a specifically mapped sand zone.
The cross section shown in the following figure shows the nature of the mineralization along the strike of the roll front trend and across the roll front interface or redox zone.
Figure 7.2 Stratigraphic section across PAA-1 Deposit
Exploration
Exploration activities in the 1950's discovered radioactivity in shallow sediments between 200 to 400 feet around the Palangana salt dome. Follow-up drilling during the 1960's was mostly wide spaced exploration holes generally located several hundreds of feet apart. Upon a discovery in what has been called the "C" zone in the Goliad Sandstone, UCC attempted both underground and then in-situ development on the west flanks of the dome. The water filled nature of these mineralized sands made mining appear favorable for ISR technology.
As an exploration target, the dome offered favorable attributes for roll front deposits including a permeable, fluvial sand system that was subject to post depositional mineralization by uranium migration in solution from a likely volcanic source rock. Reductants around the dome area associated with faulting provided the requisite stabilization mechanism for the uranium roll fronts to form. Several other mineralized sand zones were discovered across the dome area through the 1980's but the exploration methods were not sophisticated enough to map discrete roll-fronts in the stacked sand system. Extensive faulting, particularly around the dome and the lack of successful exploitation of one of the first in-situ production projects by UCC, slowed exploration efforts. This combined with the low cost of uranium during the late 1980's and 1990's essentially stopped exploration and development in the area.
In 2006, Energy Metals resumed exploration activities at Palangana. They began exploration by drilling a wide spaced grid across the property in an attempt to identify areas of oxidation and reduction of the mineralized trends. During this phase of work, the PAA-1 and PAA-2 deposits were identified as well as the six exploration trends identified in this report. These deposits were further delineated through concentrated drilling and were assessed using the PFN probe.
Drilling
Rotary Drilling and Logging
In general, common roll front exploration practice was to drill widely-spaced rotary holes on a 400 to 600ft grid pattern, examine cuttings for evidence of alteration-bleaching-oxidation, gamma logs for evidence of uranium mineralization, and resistivity/self-potential logs for evidence of permeable sandstone horizons. The drill spacing was tightened further between areas of reduced and oxidized sandstone host horizons to target the uranium enriched redox boundary. Once the roll front mineralization was intersected and its trend established, fences were drilled every 200ft with holes within fences further tightened as required by the lateral continuity of the uranium mineralization.
Nearly all rotary holes were drilled to pre-targeted depths with truck-mounted mud rigs capable of drill depths up to 1,500ft. The holes were generally drilled to a 5-1/8 inch diameter and used a drilling fluid consisting of a polymer mud with various additives for fluid loss control. The drill orientation was vertical, and given the shallow depth of drilling (i.e., less than 400 ft) in relatively soft sedimentary units, there was minimal hole drift or deviation. As a result, it is reasonable to assume that the holes intersected the horizontal to subhorizontal lenses of uranium mineralization at approximately a normal angle. Rotary cuttings were examined in the field and log data recorded. Upon completion of a drillhole, it was logged with gamma ray, self-potential, resistivity and continuous drift by either an in-house logging truck or contract unit. Drill hole collar locations were surveyed and recorded.
UCC Drilling Program
UCC drilling appears to have followed a normal exploration and development approach, but somewhat inconsistently. The result is that the 1,117 holes are unevenly distributed over the Palangana property with only a few in the PAA-1 and PAA-2 project areas. The primary focus of the UCC development drilling was within a 3,500 x 3,400ft area surrounding the ISR wellfield, an 800 x 1,700ft area on the southwest flank of the Palangana Dome depression. The remainder of the UCC drilling appears to have targeted mineralization around the periphery of the depression of the dome, as well as topographic highs in the center of the depression. The resulting drilling appears somewhat scattered, often occurring in clusters of 100 to 200ft centered patterns surrounding +0.50 Grade Thickness ("GT") holes. There are isolated +0.50 GT holes in a number of locations on the property, some with no other hole within hundreds of feet.
Chevron Drilling Program
Chevron's drill program was limited, totaling just 163 holes, but followed a much more consistent and methodical drilling strategy. Their exploration drilling focused on filling in areas of sparse UCC drilling west and northwest of the ISR wellfield. This region corresponds to much of the western margin of the salt dome depression. The resulting pattern stepping west from the ISR wellfield yielded a fairly regular delineation drill grid on nominal 100ft-centers.
To the northwest, Chevron's drilling was clearly for exploration and not delineation, resulting in a nominal 200ft grid pattern.
UCC and Chevron confined the great majority of their drilling to less than 200 acres comprising their wellfield and the immediate vicinity. A focus on production issues discouraged UCC from an aggressive exploration and delineation program. Chevron's focus was on filling in gaps in the UCC drilling necessary to evaluate the deposits for their open pit scenario. Significant mineralized intercepts were encountered outside of the production wellfield vicinity, but there was limited exploration follow-up.
Uranium One Drilling Program
While Uranium One and its predecessors have drilled over 2,500 rotary holes on the entire Palangana property, their efforts have been focused on eight discoveries, PAA-1, PAA-2, and six trends still being defined (the exploration trends), where more than 70% of the drill holes are located. The average depth of these holes is 450ft. All of these holes have all been logged by conventional gamma, SP, resistivity methods and the majority have also been probed using a Prompt Fission Neutron (PFN) probe that more closely estimates the chemical uranium.
Core Drilling
There were 296 core holes completed by UCC on the Palangana property. Assaying for these holes was conducted either at UCC's in-house laboratories in Grand Junction or Rifle, Colorado, and at independent Core Laboratories Inc. located in Corpus Christi, Texas. Thirty-three of the core holes were examined in detail. Core recovery was generally between 80% and 100%. Where the loss occurred in the mineralized interval, which unfortunately happened regularly, it rendered that interval useless for disequilibrium comparison (see discussion below) with the down hole gamma log results.
From the available reports and records reviewed, there is no evidence that Chevron conducted core drilling at Palangana. Energy Metals and Uranium One drilled a total of eight core holes on the PAA-1 property. However, the usage of PFN logging has largely reduced the need for coring for exploration purposes.
Procedures
Drilling procedures conducted by Energy Metals and Uranium One are acceptable for resource and reserve modeling. Field examination by Sean Muller confirmed that proper methods for sampling and logging were being conducted and the drilling and geophysical logging methods were at or above the industry standard. Core and rotary cutting recovery were well documented and of good quality for interpretation.
Results
Results compiled from the above described drilling activities were carefully compiled in a consistent and quality manner enabling easy retrieval and correlation for interpretive purposes.
The mineralized zones at Palangana are oriented essentially horizontal along semi-linear fronts. The drill holes are all oriented vertical which intersect the mineralized zones at right angles. Therefore, the mineralized intercepts as recorded in the drill holes do represent true thickness of the mineralized zones.
The table below summarizes the historical drilling results at Palangana:
Sample Preparation, Analyses and Security
Discussion on sample preparation, analyses and security in this report is limited to the samples collected by employees of Energy Metals and Uranium One. Core sample acquisition has been done using appropriate QA/QC methods to minimize contamination and oxidization. The core was wrapped and frozen immediately after acquisition then shipped directly to Energy Laboratories in Casper, Wyoming. Although Energy Laboratories does have approximately 26 certifications from various federal and state agencies they are not an ISO certified laboratory.
Energy Laboratories has an impeccable reputation for uranium assay and physio-chemical testing for ISR amenability. Being located amidst the Wyoming uranium belt of the Powder River Basin has enabled Energy Laboratories to continue with advances in technologies during the down cycle of uranium prices since production in the area continued during this period. Their QA/QC procedures have historically been overseen by uranium experts who understand the propensity for uranium disequilibrium in Texas deposits and the requisites for laboratory check samples, standards and blanks. Generally, two assays were typically run: a percent chemical U3O8 by one of several acceptable methods and an equivalent percent U3O8 based on a "closed can" radiometric assay to determine a gamma equivalent assay to approximate the downhole gamma log. Although it was standard practice to insert QA control samples (i.e., blanks, standards, and duplicates) into the sample sequence, there are no records from the UCC sampling to verify that a QA/QC procedure was followed.
Core Laboratories Inc. ran select samples for horizontal and vertical permeability and porosity from core plugs and density measurements. Core Laboratories Inc. is an industry leader in petroleum services but is not ISO certified.
Horizontal permeability values ranged from practically zero to over eight darcies in the UCC production area which should be reasonably applicable to all Goliad sand units within the Palangana Project. The lower values corresponded to mudstones and some very fine-grained zones described as "silty" and/or "limy". Within mineralized zones, horizontal permeability varies from a few hundred millidarcies to the upper limit of over eight darcies. Sample descriptions between the two extremes are hardly different - both are most often described as very fine-grained to fine-grained, silty sandstone. Absent any analytical data and more detailed descriptions, the conclusion is that the lower permeability samples are due to more clay or calcium carbonate cement. Vertical permeability ranged from 50% to 75% of horizontal.
Porosity percentages from core plugs ranged from the low 20's to the low 30's with an average of about 28% in the core descriptions examined. UCC settled on a density factor of 17ft3/t for rock density. An average of 137 density values available for 15 cores studied averaged 16.8ft3/t.
Methodologies utilized by UEC are deemed acceptable to meet the CIM requirements for the industry.
Interpretation
The sampling and analysis methods employed by Uranium One and previous operators meet or exceed industry standards. The usage of PFN borehole logging is particularly useful in deposits that exhibit disequilibrium such as those at Palangana.
Mineral Processing and Metallurgical Testing
The Palangana uranium host rock consists of both sand and clay with about 20% calcium carbonate. The uranium content can vary from essentially zero to over 1% U3O8 within a few feet. Although grades and analyses are generally given in terms of U3O8, the species itself has not been identified. The uranium phase present in the mineralization is thought to be UO2, although because of its extreme fineness, no mineral has been positively identified. The Palangana uranium is considered to be a secondary deposit, in which the uranium was originally transported from another deposit, probably in the soluble hexavalent form, and then was reprecipitated as UO2 by H2S or other reducing agents. Iron and sulfur contents are in about equal proportions at around 1%. The FeS2 minerals marcasite and pyrite have been identified, with marcasite predominating. Most of the sulfur is in the form of FeS2, although small amounts are apparently present as sulfate. The amount of iron exceeds that necessary to combine with sulfur and likely is a form of ferrous carbonate. Detailed mineralogical studies have not been found in the references and may not exist.
Other metal constituents are molybdenum, vanadium, copper, and rhenium. It is likely that these metals, except possibly vanadium, are present as sulfides. Of these four, molybdenum is the most abundant, being on the average about 10% of the uranium content of the mineralization, but varying widely in range, Vanadium is not always detectable by chemical methods, since its concentration is <0.01%. Copper generally ranges from 0.003 to 0.005%. The precious metal rhenium is present as a trace constituent, and can be found in concentrations ranging from 0.01-
0.2% rhenium for every 100% MoS2.
In 1970, UCC conducted their own pilot plant leach study using ammonia and hydrogen peroxide as respective oxidants. These tests concluded that the Palangana ores were very easy to leach with carbonate solutions at ambient temperature. The ease of leaching is thought to result from the extreme fineness of the uranium species. Some permeability reduction occurred as a result of montmorillonite swelling.
Energy Metals submitted selected core samples to Energy Laboratories, Inc. in Casper, Wyoming in April 2008. These core samples from Palangana were sent to the laboratory for leach amenability studies intended to demonstrate that uranium mineralization at the property was capable of being leached using conventional in situ leach chemistry. The tests do not approximate other in-situ variables (permeability, porosity, and pressure) but provide an indication of a sample's reaction rate and the potential chemical recovery.
Permitting
The following outlines the status of the permits for Palangana:
PAA-1: All permits have been received and is currently in production
PAA-2: All permits have been received with the exception of an updated radioactive material license ("RML") to include PAA-2.
PAA-3: The required applications are being prepared for submission for review by the Texas Commission on Environmental Quality ("TCEQ").
Goliad Project, Goliad County, Texas
Goliad Project Technical Report
On March 4, 2008, we issued a news release entitled "Uranium Energy Corp Reports Independent NI 43-101 Resource Estimate at Goliad Project." This news release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to our Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on the same day.
We have received an updated technical report (the "Technical Report") in accordance with the provisions of National Instrument 43-101, Standards of Disclosure for Mineral Projects ("NI 43-101"), of the Canadian Securities Administrators for our Goliad Project located in Goliad County, Texas. The complete Technical Report was filed under our company's profile on the Canadian Securities Administrators public disclosure website, at www.sedar.com, on March 10, 2008. The Technical Report is authored by Thomas A. Carothers, P.Geo., a qualified person as defined in NI 43-101, who has over 30 years of uranium experience, substantially in the South Texas Uranium trend. His experience includes working directly for two operating ISR mining companies in South Texas, US Steel and Tenneco Uranium, during the 1970s and 1980s.
As required by NI 43-101, the Technical Report contains certain disclosure relating to measured, indicated and inferred mineral resource estimates for the Company's Goliad Project. Such mineral resources have been estimated in accordance with the definition standards on mineral resources of the Canadian Institute of Mining, Metallurgy and Petroleum referred to in NI 43-101. Measured mineral resources, indicated mineral resources and inferred mineral resources, while recognized and required by Canadian regulations, are not defined terms under the SEC's Industry Guide 7, and are normally not permitted to be used in reports and registration statements filed with the SEC. Accordingly, we have not reported them in this annual report or otherwise in the United States.
Investors are cautioned not to assume that any part or all of the mineral resources in these categories will ever be converted into mineral reserves. These terms have a great amount of uncertainty as to their existence, and great uncertainty as to their economic and legal feasibility. In particular, it should be noted that mineral resources which are not mineral reserves do not have demonstrated economic viability. It cannot be assumed that all or any part of measured mineral resources, indicated mineral resources or inferred mineral resources discussed in the news release and Technical Report will ever be upgraded to a higher category. In accordance with Canadian rules, estimates of inferred mineral resources cannot form the basis of feasibility or other economic studies. Investors are cautioned not to assume that any part of the reported measured mineral resources, indicated mineral resources or inferred mineral resources referred to in this news release and in the Technical Report are economically or legally mineable.
Property Description and Location
The Goliad Project property is located in south Texas near the northeast end of the extensive South Texas Uranium Trend. The Goliad Project consists of multiple leases that would allow the mining of uranium by ISR methods while utilizing the land surface (with variable conditions) as needed, for mining wells and aboveground facilities for fluid processing and ore capture during the mining and groundwater restoration phases of the project. The UEC Goliad Project area is about 14 miles north of the town of Goliad and is located on the east side of US route 77A/183 (Figure 4-1), a primary highway that intersects with US 59 in Goliad and IH-10 to the north. The approximate center of the project area is 28 d 52' 7" N latitude, 97 d 20 36" W longitude. Site drilling roads are mostly gravel based and allow reasonable weather access for trucks and cars. Four-wheel drive vehicles may be needed during high rainfall periods.
Virtually all mining in Texas is on private lands with leases negotiated with each individual landowner/mineral owner. Moore Energy obtained leases for exploration work in the project area in the early 1980s and completed an extensive drilling program resulting in a historic uranium mineral estimate in 1985. We obtained mining leases from individuals and by assignment from a private entity in 2006.
The current leases range in size from 14 acres to 331.98 acres. Most of the leases have starting dates in 2005 or 2006 with term periods of five years with a five-year renewal option (Figure 4-2). The various lease fees and royalty conditions are negotiated with individual lessors and conditions may vary from lease to lease. The following chart provides a summary of the material terms of the leases:
No historic uranium mining is known to have occurred on any of the Goliad Project lease properties and only state permitted uranium exploration drilling has taken place. There are believed to be no existing environmental liabilities at the property leases. Prior to any mining activity at the Goliad Project, we are required to obtain a Radioactive Materials License, a large area Underground Injection Control ("UIC") Mine permit and a Production Area Authorization (PAA) permit for each wellfield developed for mining within the Mine Permit area. In addition, a waste disposal well will, if needed, require a separate UIC Permit. These permits will be issued by Texas regulatory agencies. The current drilling and abandonment of uranium exploration holes on any of the leases is permitted by the Texas Railroad Commission. Potential future environmental liability as a result of the mining must be addressed by the permit holder jointly with the permit granting agency. Most permits now have bonding requirements for ensuring that the restoration of groundwater, the land surface and any ancillary facility structures or equipment is properly completed.
Accessibility, Climate, Local Resources, Infrastructure and Physiography
The Goliad Project area is situated in the interior portion of the Gulf Coastal Plain physiographic province. The area is characterized by rolling topography with parallel to sub-parallel ridges and valleys. There is about 130 feet of relief at the site with ground surface elevations ranging from a low of 150 to a high of 280 feet above mean sea level. The leased property for the Goliad Project is used mostly for livestock grazing pasture and woodland. The overall property area is shown as having a Post Oak Woods, Forest, and Grassland Mosaic vegetation/cover type.
The site property is accessed from combined route US 77A / 183 that trends north-south to the west of the property. Highway FM 1961 intersects with 77A-183 at the crossroad town of Weser. Highway FM 1961 to the east of the intersection trends along the south side of the property. Access from either of these roads into the property is via vehicular traffic on private gravel roads.
The property is in a rural setting at the north end of Goliad County. The nearest population centers are Goliad (14 miles south), Cuero (18 miles north) and Victoria (about 30 miles east). While Goliad and Cuero are relatively small towns, they provide basic needs for food and lodging and some supplies. Victoria is a much larger city and provides a well-developed infrastructure that has resulted from being a regional center to support oil and gas exploration and production. The Goliad Project site area has generally very good accessibility for light to heavy equipment. There is an excellent network of county, state and federal highways that serve the region and the moderate topography, with dominantly sandy, well-drained soils, provides good construction conditions for building gravel site roads necessary for site access.
The climate in Goliad County is mild with hot summers and cool to warm winters. The moderate temperatures and precipitation result in excellent conditions for developing an ISR mine. Periods of freezing temperatures are generally very brief and infrequent. Tropical weather from the Gulf of Mexico can occur during the hurricane season and may affect the site area with large rain storms. The periodic freezing weather and abnormally large rainfalls are the primary conditions that can cause temporary shutdowns. Otherwise there is not a regular non-operating season.
The necessary rights for constructing needed surface processing facilities are in-place on selected lease agreements. Sufficient electric power is believed to be available in the area; however, new lines may be needed to bring additional service to the plant site and wellfields. We believe that within a 30 mile radius of the planned Goliad Project facility there is located sufficient population to supply the necessary number of suitable mining personnel.
History
Ownership History of the Property
The Goliad Project site is located in the north-central portion of Goliad County to the east and north of the intersection of U.S. Routes 77A/183 and Farm to Market Route 1961. There has been a long history of oil and gas exploration and production in the area and oil and gas is still a primary part of the economy for the relatively lightly populated county. In the period from October 1979 to June 1980, as a part of a large oil, gas and other minerals lease holding (approximately 55,000 acres), Coastal Uranium utilized the opportunity to drill several widely spaced exploration holes in the region. There were reported to be eight holes drilled at or near the Goliad Project area.
In the early 1980s Moore Energy obtained access to review some of the Coastal States wide-spaced drilling exploration data. The review resulted in Moore Energy obtaining several leases from Coastal Uranium, including several of the current Goliad Project leases. During the period from March 1983 through August 1984, Moore Energy conducted an exploration program in the Goliad Project area.
No further drilling was done at the Goliad Project area until we obtained the leases through assignment from a private entity. During the period from May 2006 to July 2010, we began and are continuing an extended drilling program at the site.
Exploration and Development Work Undertaken
This description of previous exploration and development work undertaken at the Goliad Project is based primarily on electric logs and maps produced by Moore Energy during the period 1983 to 1984. Moore Energy completed 479 borings on various leases. Eight widespread exploration borings were completed by Coastal Uranium in 1980. We obtained leases from a private entity in 2006 and began confirmation drilling in May 2006. As of the date of this report, approximately 958 confirmation-delineation holes totaling 338,615 feet have been drilled by us to confirm and expand the mineralization base at the Goliad Project with the intention of permitting the project as an ISR mining and recovery facility.
All of the exploration holes (Coastal Uranium, Moore Energy and the Company) have been drilled using truck-mounted drilling rigs contracted with various drilling companies. The holes were drilled by conventional rotary drilling methods using drilling mud fluids. All known uranium exploration or confirmation drilling at the Goliad property has been by way of vertical holes. Drill cuttings were typically collected from the drilling fluid returns circulating up the annulus of the borehole. These samples were generally taken at 10-foot intervals and laid out on the ground in rows (10 cuttings piles per 100 feet of drilling) by the driller for review and description by a geologist. At completion the holes were logged for gamma ray, self potential and resistance by contract logging companies. The logging companies utilized by both Coastal Uranium and Moore Energy provided and primarily analog data. No down-hole deviation tool was available at the time. In contrast, the Company has utilized a company (Century Geophysical) that provided digital log data along with downhole deviation. In an effort to be cost effective we have purchased and had built our own logging trucks.
Historical Mineral Estimates and Their Reliability
Historical mineral estimates were prepared by Moore Energy from 1983 through 1985. For each drill hole, a grade thickness (GT) was determined. GT is the product of the average equivalent uranium mineral grade, as determined by eU3O8 gamma ray readings, and the thickness of the mineralized zone. An outline contouring all of the drill holes with intercepts meeting these criteria was produced and the area within the outline was determined using a planimeter. The average GT of the holes within the contoured outline was then used to estimate the mineralization meeting the specified criteria.
During the field investigation by Moore Energy a prompt fission neutron ("PFN") specialty logging unit was used to determine the disequilibrium factor ("DEF") in the four different mineralized zones identified at the site. The logging unit was designed to determine the grade of uranium only while excluding the daughter products that develop over time from the half-life decay rates. The unit utilized by Moore Energy was provided by Princeton Gamma Technologies ("PGT"). A total of 30 boreholes were logged with the PFN unit by Moore Energy during the field investigation. The log output data is on a printout with one-foot values for the logged mineralized intercepts. Numerical values of the PGT uranium were assayed in %U3O8, the gross gamma equivalent e%U3O8, and the unit calculated the DEF. The log header contains logging unit factors and location and hole identification data. The log output also provides a calculation of the thickness, average grade, starting depth, grade thickness and DEF. A review of the historic data and discussion with the Moore Energy geologist shows that DEF data from PGT logged holes were sorted by intervals according to what zone that interval was situated. The DEF values from each zone were then averaged if there were enough values and those values used to adjust the historical estimate of Moore Energy.
Geological Setting
Regional Geology
The Goliad Project area is situated in the Texas Gulf Coastal Plain physiographic province that is geologically characterized by sedimentary deposits that typically dip and thicken toward the Gulf of Mexico from the northwest source areas. Additionally, the regional dip generally increases with distance in the down dip direction as the overall thickness of sediments increase. The sedimentary units are dominantly continental clastic deposits with some near shore and shallow marine facies. The uranium-bearing units are virtually all sands and sandstones in Tertiary formations ranging in age from Eocene (oldest) to Upper Miocene (youngest).
Local and Property Geology
The surface of the property is all within the outcrop area of the Goliad Formation (Figure 4-3). The mineralized units are sands and sandstone within the Goliad Formation and are designated by us as the A through D sands from younger (upper) to older (lower), respectively. The sand units are generally fine to medium grained sands with silt and varying amounts of secondary calcite. The sand units vary in color depending upon the degree of oxidation-reduction and could be from light brown-tan to grays. The sands units are generally separated from each other by silty clay or clayey silts that serve as confining units between the sand units.
The Goliad Formation at the project site occurs from the surface to a depth of about 500 feet. Depending upon the land surface elevation, groundwater occurs in the sands of the formation below depths of about 30 to 60 feet. The four sand/sandstone zones (A-D) designated as containing uranium mineralization at the site are all considered to be a part of the Gulf Coast Aquifer on a regional basis. At the project area, however, each zone is a hydrogeologic unit with similar but variable characteristics. The A zone is the uppermost unit and based on resistance logs, groundwater in this unit may be unconfined over portions of the site. The three deeper zones are confined units with confining clays and silts above and below the water-bearing unit.
Groundwater from sands of the Goliad Formation is used for water supplies over much of the northern portion of Goliad County. Water quality in the Goliad Formation is variable and wells typically can yield small to moderate amounts of water. Data indicates an approximate average hydraulic conductivity of the water-bearing zones of the Goliad Formation in Goliad County is 100 gallons per day per square foot. Based on this value, a 20 foot sand unit would have an approximate transmissivity of 2,000 gallons per day. With sufficient available drawdown properly completed ISR wells could have average yields in the range of 25 to 50 gallons per minute.
The site area structures include two faults that intersect and offset the mineralized units. These faults are normal, with one downthrown toward the coast and one downthrown toward the northwest. The fault throws range from about 40 to 80 feet.
Project Type
The Goliad uranium project is characteristic of other known Goliad sand / sandstone deposits in south Texas. The mineralization occurs within fluvial sands and silts as roll front deposits that are typically a "C" or cutoff "C" shape. The roll fronts are generally associated with an extended oxidation-reduction boundary or front.
The other Goliad projects in the region include the Kingsville Dome mine southeast of Kingsville, the Rosita mine west of Alice, the Mestena mine in Brooks County and the former Mt. Lucas mine at Lake Corpus Christi. These mines are all located south of the Goliad Project from about 60 to 160 miles. The average tons and uranium grade information for these mines is not known, but all these ISR projects mining Goliad Formation sand units have been very successful with the following characteristics in common: excellent leaching characteristics rate, and favorable hydraulic conductivity of host sands.
At the Goliad Project there are four stacked mineralized sand horizons (A-D) that are separated vertically by zones of finer sand, silt and clay. Deposition and concentration of uranium in the Goliad Formation likely resulted due to a combination of leaching of uranium from volcanic tuff or ash deposits within the Goliad Formation or erosion of uranium-bearing materials from older Oakville deposits. The leaching process occurred near the outcrop area where recharge of oxidizing groundwater increased the solubility of uranium minerals in the interstices and coating sand grains in the sediments. Subsequent downgradient migration of the soluble uranium within the oxygenated groundwater continued until the geochemical conditions became reducing and uranium minerals were deposited in roll front or tabular bodies due to varying stratigraphic or structural conditions.
There are at least two northeast-southwest trending faults at the Goliad property that are likely related to the formation of the Goliad Project mineralization. The northwesterly fault is a typical Gulf Coast normal fault, downthrown toward the coast, while the southeastern fault is downthrown to the northwest, forming a graben structure. Both faults are normal faults. Throw on the northwest fault is about 75 feet and the southeast fault has about 50 feet of throw. The presence of these faults is likely related to the increased mineralization at the site. The faulting has probably served as a conduit for reducing waters-gases to migrate from deeper horizons as well as altering the groundwater flow system in the uranium-bearing sands.
Mineralization
The Goliad Project uranium-bearing units occur as multiple roll front type structures in vertically stacked sands and sandstones. Groundwater flowing from northwest to southeast in the Goliad sands likely contained low concentrations of dissolved uranium resulting from oxidizing conditions and the relatively short distance from the recharge area. The geochemical conditions in the sands near our property changed from oxidizing to reducing due to an influx of reductants. Hydrogen sulfide and/or methane dissolved in groundwater are likely sources of creating a reduction-oxidation boundary in the area with consequent precipitation and concentration of uranium mineralization.
Specific identification of the uranium minerals has not been done at the Goliad Project. The very fine uranium minerals found coating quartz grains and within the interstices in most south Texas sand and sandstone roll-front deposits has generally been found to be dominantly uraninite. No uraninite has been identified on the Goliad Project and the presence of uraninite on other properties does not mean that such mineralization will be found on the Goliad Project. Detailed petrographic examination of disseminated uranium mineralization within sands/sandstones is generally not suitable for identification of the specific uranium minerals. Laboratory equipment such as x-ray diffraction units may be used to identify the minerals, however the specific mineral species typically found in reduced sands are generally similar in south Texas ISR projects and leaching characteristics are also similar. Based on the experience of the ISR mines throughout south Texas, the use of gamma-ray logging with a calibrated logging probe has become the standard method to determine the thickness and estimated grade of uranium bearing minerals.
At the project site the Goliad Formation is exposed at the surface and extends to depths exceeding 500 feet. Uranium mineralization occurs in four sand/sandstone units that are all below the saturated zone. The zones are designated A to D from the top to the bottom of the sequence. The sands are fluvial-deltaic in origin, and thicken and thin across the project site. Each Zone is hydrologically separated by 10 to 50 feet or more of clay or silty clay. The uranium deposits are tabular in nature and can range from about one foot to over 45 feet in thickness. The "C"-shaped configuration is typically convex in a downdip direction with leading edge tails on the upper end. Most of the exploration and delineation holes with elevated gamma ray log anomalies are situated within a southwest-northeast trending graben and most of the gamma ray anomaly holes are situated along the northernmost of the two faults comprising the graben. This northernmost fault is downthrown to the southeast, which is typical for the majority of faults along the Texas coastal area.
The A and B gamma ray anomaly zones are continuous, tabular bodies which extend for over 2000 feet along trend. The A Zone mineralized body ranges from about 100 feet to over 600 feet in width and the B Zone ranges from about 50 feet to over 300 feet in width. The D Zone gamma ray anomaly extends for over 5,000 feet along trend and appears to be comprised of extensive, isolated pods of high grade gamma anomalies which range from 50 feet to over 500 feet in width. Confirmation drilling, however, has shown high-grade gamma ray anomaly connections between some of the pods. The C Zone is the least extensive of the four gamma anomaly zones.
Exploration
A review of the available records for the Goliad Project indicated that approximately eight holes were drilled by Coastal Uranium on or near the current Goliad Project leases. This original exploration program resulted in the original find of gamma ray logging responses indicating potential low grade uranium as a part of a very wide spaced preliminary exploration program by Coastal Uranium during the period from October 1979 through June 1980.
Records indicate that Moore Energy obtained leases from Coastal Uranium for properties in the current Goliad Project area and conducted a thorough exploration program that consisted of drilling 479 exploration holes from March 1983 to August 1984. The program utilized gamma ray, resistance and self-potential logging of each hole and a geologic description of the lithology from five to 10-foot interval drill cuttings. In addition to gamma logs, several holes were also logged with a Princeton Gamma Tech Geophysical Services PFN type tool. This logging tool was used to differentiate gamma radiation from uranium and daughter products, and determine a DEF for the mineralization intervals. The Moore Energy exploration program provided the geological basis for the Goliad Project.
Drilling at the property in 2006 and 2007 has been performed to confirm the geological details of the uranium mineralization at the property. The Goliad property work by our geologists is not exploration but confirmation-verification drilling. Additionally, our staff has continued peripheral as well as internal drilling to expand the historical mineralization.
Drilling
Drilling for the Goliad Project has been conducted by truck-mounted rigs drilling vertical holes ranging from about four to six inches in diameter. After reaching the designated total depth, the hole is circulated from bottom to clear the heavy cuttings from the hole and condition the hole for logging with a specialized calibrated tool that recorded resistance, spontaneous potential and gamma ray. The gamma ray probe on each logging truck working on uranium drilling projects has to maintain calibration by regular cross checking the probe at a US Department of Energy test pit near George West, Texas. The pit is set up for logging units to calibrate the gamma probe with a known radioactive source. This method has been successfully used in Texas since at least the mid-1970s. The available data indicate that the logging companies contracted for this project have maintained industry standard calibration procedures for their probes.
Based on a review of drilling records and discussions with former Moore Energy and our current employees, previous drilling on the property was conducted using rotary mud drilling and truck-mounted drilling rigs. Cuttings are typically taken at 10-foot intervals and placed in piles on the ground for a geologist to review for lithology and alteration. The drill holes were completed at various depths depending on which of the four sand units may have been mineralized in the vicinity location. Once completed, the drill holes were logged by a contract logger using a probe with gamma ray, self-potential and single point resistance capability. Drift tools for bottom hole deviation were not used by Coastal Uranium nor for the vast majority of Moore Energy holes. We have utilized the digital logging capability of Century Geophysical Corp. and have downhole deviation records for these holes. The drill hole collar location was used to position the hole location for map locations of individual holes. Although several boreholes had no deviation records, all drilling to date has been set up to be vertical drilling. At the depth range (300-500 ft) of most Goliad Project drilling, measured bottom hole deviations from vertical are generally less than 10 feet.
Initial exploration drilling in the general areas was conducted by Coastal Uranium in 1980. Some scattered low level gamma ray anomalies were noted in the geophysical logs that indicated potential low grade uranium mineralization was possible in three of the eight Coastal drill holes. Moore Energy established leases in the area in 1982 and began an exploration program in early 1983. Between 1983 and August 1984 Moore Energy completed 479 borings by mud rotary methods on several of their leases. We obtained leases for the property by assignment from a private entity in 2006 and began confirmation drilling in May 2006.
As of the date of this annual report we had drilled a total of 958 confirmation holes. Of the total 958 holes, 61 were strongly mineralized.
All uranium grades have been determined from evaluation (manual calculations or computerized logging equipment) of gamma logs of the drill holes. The resulting grades are designated as equivalent percent uranium that have not been corrected or verified by chemical assay. Because there has not been sufficient verification of the gamma log and PFN log data to arrive at a validated resource or reserve classification, the following data in Table 1 cannot be used to define a resource at this time.
Table 1. Representative Thickness and Grade by Zone
A - A'
Hole #
30892-62
30892-116
32202-64
32202-117
32202-108
Depth to Top (ft)
Depth to Base (ft)
Mineral Thickness (ft)
23.0
7.5
40.0
23.0
8.5
Grade (%U3O8)
0.05
0.03
0.04
0.05
0.03
Operator
Moore Energy
UEC
Moore Energy
UEC
UEC
Date Completed
27-Oct-83
3-Nov-06
31-Oct-83
15-Nov-06
8-Nov-06
Probe Used
414-1B
9055C-238
414-1B
9055C-82
9055C-238
Hole #
32201-N105
32201-N103
32201-N114
32201-N85
32201-N86
Depth to Top (ft)
Depth to Base (ft)
Mineral Thickness (ft)
7.0
14.0
14.5
10.5
10.0
Grade (%U3O8)
0.04
0.10
0.11
0.03
0.04
Operator
UEC
UEC
UEC
UEC
UEC
Date Completed
7-Mar-07
7-Mar-07
8-Mar-07
14-Feb-07
14-Feb-07
Probe Used
9056C-33
9056C-33
9056C-33
9056C-33
9056C-33
C - C'
Hole #
30898-2
32201-N6
32201-N10
32201-N47
32201-N51
Depth to Top (ft)
Depth to Base (ft)
Mineral Thickness (ft)
11.0
15.0
22.0
8.5
6.0
Grade (%U3O8)
0.06
0.04
0.05
0.04
0.03
Operator
Moore Energy
UEC
UEC
UEC
UEC
Date Completed
27-Sep-83
7-Dec-06
7-Dec-06
22-Mar-07
9-Jan-07
Probe Used
414-1B
9055C-238
9055C-238
9056C-33
9056C-33
D - D'
Hole #
30898-10
30892-13
30892-111
30892-37
32202-108
Depth to Top (ft)
Depth to Base (ft)
Mineral Thickness (ft)
23.5
12.0
7.5
5.5
13.0
Grade (%U3O8)
0.11
0.09
0.03
0.04
0.03
Operator
Moore Energy
Moore Energy
UEC
Moore Energy
UEC
Date Completed
30-Sep-83
21-Jul-83
25-Oct-06
26-Aug-83
8-Nov-06
Probe Used
414-1B
SPB-01
9055C-82
SPB-01
9055C-238
Disequilibrium
Uranium disequilibrium can be defined as the ratio of chemical uranium (cU3O8) over gamma-ray equivalent uranium (eU3O8). The first determination is made in a laboratory, as described below, whereas the second determination is typically a field measurement, from which an indirect or equivalent estimate of uranium content can be made. The ratio, or disequilibrium, between "chemical" laboratory techniques and "equivalent" field techniques exists because of the ongoing radioactive decay of uranium over time. A positive DEF of 1.0 or greater indicates the presence of more chemical uranium than equivalent uranium.
During exploration of the Goliad property in the early 1980s, Moore Energy utilized the prompt fission neutron (PFN) downhole logging technology of the Princeton Gamma-Tech Corporation (PGT) to identify disequilibrium. A review of available logs identified 30 Moore Energy drill holes on which PGT's PFN downhole logging tool was used to develop DEFs for the four mineralized zones on the project. Approximately 2,000 feet of hole was logged by PGT, which included all four of the mineralized zones. Both chemical (PFN direct reading) and equivalent (gamma log) U3O8 readings were obtained for each foot of logged hole.
The DEF for each of the four zones at the Goliad Project were estimated by Moore Energy during the 1982-85 field investigation. There were 30 borings during the Moore work that were logged with the PGT PFN tool to provide a direct comparison of the PGT uranium assay (%U3O8) with the gross gamma equivalent (eU3O8) from the radiometric signature of the material being logged. The A zone was the most logged unit, with about 14 PGT logs of mineralized zones. The average DEF for these logs was approximately 1.7. The B zone was penetrated by four PGT logs. The B zone DEF was thus conservatively designated as 1.439. The D zone was PGT logged at 6 holes had an average DEF of 1.435. No PGT logs were obtained of the C zone during the field program, due to the more limited areal extent of this unit and the limited time periods the PGT logger was at the project site. Because of the geologic similarity of the C zone sand with the B and D zones sands, Moore Energy assigned a DEF of 1.4 to the C zone to be consistent with the B and D zone sands. Although the PFN derived DEFs are believed to be reliable based on the operator's experience and knowledge of the technology utilized, direct chemical assays were not done to verify the technique when this work was done.
Modern day field logging continues to use the PFN tool as an effective direct assay technique to assess the disequilibrium between standard gamma ray logging results and the actual grade of uranium in the borehole. However, in order to verify the values obtained by historical or current PFN logging, a suitable verification program that uses laboratory chemical assays of core and/or definitive calibration testing by the equipment manufacturer or at certified test facilities would be needed.
Drill Cuttings
Drill cuttings are important sources of information for distinguishing and mapping alteration fronts and for use in correlating geophysical logs for lithology. Field geologists will review the drill cuttings in the field and describe the sediments encountered in the boring in terms of color, grain size, and other distinguishing characteristics. An important aspect of the lithology logs is to provide the level of the sediment alteration as an indication of reduction and oxidation conditions. This information is important to locate the reduction-oxidation front/boundary. Cutting samples are generally not used for chemical assay or other laboratory testing due to dilution and contamination with drilling mud. Lithology logs are present for all of the drill holes, but they were not reviewed in full detail during this study.
Our policy has been to take samples of drill cuttings at 10-foot intervals from the surface to total depth. Once the cuttings have been observed and the lithologic logs prepared, the cuttings are discarded back into the mud pit. After allowing some drying time, the mud in the pit and the cuttings are eventually covered with soil that has been stored from the excavation of the pits.
Probe Truck and Calibration
Contract logging companies were utilized by Moore Energy and UEC for logging of drill holes. The contract logging companies maintained scheduled calibration of the gamma probes on each of their trucks against standards in a US Department of Energy maintained and monitored test pit facility outside George West, Texas. Probe truck and calibration information records were kept by the logging companies. We purchased two logging trucks and began using them on the Goliad Project in early June 2007, and January 2008.
Core Samples
We have taken three-inch core samples from eight drill holes representative of the occurrence of uranium mineralization at the site. The core holes are as follows: 30892-74C, 30892-85C, 30892-86C, 30892-102C, 30892-111C, 30892-118AC 30892-120C, and 32201-N100C) (Figure 13-1). The cores have included samples from all mineralized zones but the C zone. Samples have been used for the purpose of moisture content, total metals (U and Mo), cU3O8 for disequilibrium evaluations, leachability tests, density analyses and X-ray diffraction for mineral identification. Selected intervals were put in bags, labeled and placed in core boxes for transport to the respective laboratories for analyses. The remaining core is locked in a storage shed on the project site. All of the analyses except density determinations were conducted by Energy Labs in Casper, Wyoming. The laboratory has been in business since 1952, is fully certified, but not ISO certified. Certifications include the US Environmental Protection Agency, US Nuclear Regulatory Commission, and the following US states: AZ, CA, CO, FL, ID, NV, OR, SD, TX, UT and WA. The density analyses were conducted by Professional Service Industries in Austin, Texas.
Borehole Remediation and Abandonment
The Texas Railroad Commission requires exploration companies to obtain exploration permits before conducting drilling in any area. The permits include standards for the abandonment and remediation of test bore holes. The standards include the cementing of test bore holes, the filling and abandonment of mud pits, and the marking of bore holes at the surface. Remediation requirements are sometimes specific to the area of exploration and may include segregation, storage, and re-covering with topsoil, regrading, and revegetation. The Railroad Commission conducts monthly remediation inspections of the Goliad Project site. Our Goliad Project site is in compliance with Railroad Commission remediation requirements.
Data Verification
Most of the historic logs were run with analog equipment except for some run by Century Geophysical with digital equipment, while our holes have all been logged with digital equipment. Century Geophysical initially logged, and continues to log the drill holes when required. In June 2007 and January 2008 we obtained new logging units and have logged with these units since that time in conjunction with Century Geophysical.
The use of selected core analyses by an analytical laboratory and field logging selected borings with a specialized logging tool that distinguishes uranium from its daughter products (such as delayed fission neutron or prompt fission neutron) will allow the operator to determine the average DEF of the project and utilize that and assay data to adjust (if necessary) the gamma-ray grade and thickness data.
The radiometric data from the gamma ray logging of each hole has provided the primary tool to determine the approximate grade of uranium in the subsurface. Additionally, some individual cores with chemical assays that verified the occurrence of cU3O8 have been collected and analyzed during our drilling program. Primary verification that uranium mineralization is present at the site is from the large number of exploration/confirmation boreholes and the geophysical logs that document the presence of eU3O8 with the gamma logs and lithology with the resistance logs. An independent geologist has reviewed core intervals representative of mineralization and, based on his review and evaluation of the historic and our current files and procedures, he determined that the records and files from the drilling programs have been well conducted and the information is suitable for estimated historical mineralization determination in a manner consistent with accepted practices in the ISR uranium mining industry.
For partial verification of the historic DEFs the Company contracted from Energy Labs of Casper, Wyoming, laboratory analyses on samples from three A Zone cores and one B Zone core. For the A Zone cores the analyses consisted of the determination of total chemical uranium and radiometric uranium from 28 selected one foot mineralized core intervals. This consisted of 15 intervals from core hole 30892-111C, eight intervals from core hole 30893-85C and five intervals from core hole 30893-118AC. From the B Zone, 30 continuous one foot samples were taken from core hole 32201-N100C.
Samples for chemical and radiometric gamma analysis are dried in a convection oven followed by grinding to -100 mesh. A 200 g sample is taken for the gamma analysis, placed in a tin and sealed with tape. A minimum 15 day period is required to establish equilibrium between 226Ra and the daughter 214Bi. The principal behind the gamma analysis is that in a particular uranium occurrence, 238U and 226Ra will be in equilibrium. Since 238U is the only source of 226Ra, one can assume that ideally, measuring the activity of 214Bi can be used to indirectly determine the total uranium concentration. Accuracy is determined by using certified 226Ra standards. The chemical analysis uses a one-gram sample digested in a nitric acid-hydrogen peroxide mixture and measured by Inductively Coupled Argon Plasma (ICP) emission spectroscopy using certified standards for control.
Assay results indicate average DEFs for the A Sand core holes of 1.71, 1.15, and 0.16 for core holes 30892-111C, 85C, and 118AC, respectively. The 1.71 value was derived from the average of 15 one-foot sample intervals and the 1.15 value from eight one-foot sample intervals. The five one-foot intervals from the third core suggest a thin interval where the average eU3O8 values exceed the chemical values. Such intervals are common, even in core holes with high overall DEFs, but their presence in a limited sample group such as the present one will skew the results in a negative fashion. The 1.71 value from the larger 15 sample group in core hole 30892-111C is consistent with the average 1.7 value derived from historic PGT logging by Moore Energy and is considered to be representative of the A Zone. The 30 one-foot sample intervals from the B Sand core hole had an average DEF of 1.26; a value similar in magnitude to the 1.439 PGT value determined by Moore Energy. Again, the PGT value was established from a larger sample grouping and may be considered more representative of the B Sand than that derived from the smaller sample group.
The development and refinement of the PFN and similar specialty logging methods over the past 30 years has resulted in a tool that provides an accurate field determination of potential uranium grade and infrequent need for laboratory assays of core. In order to maintain a consistent analysis of the disequilibrium factors throughout the mineral bodies, we are purchasing a PFN logging tool which will be used in conjunction with standard gamma ray logging on the Goliad project. Use of the PFN technology will assist in developing more concise future mineralization estimates, but still requires a level of verification with the accepted laboratory assay of core and/or calibration testing.
Additional verification of select historical Moore Energy drilling and our current logging data was done by comparing sets of gamma logs from a Moore hole and a recent hole we drilled that was located in close proximity. The log pairs were located and then data tabulated for each pair to compare thickness of zone, equivalent U3O8 grade, GT. A positive correlation indicated the drill hole sets were comparable in character regarding the potential mineral grade and thickness and representative of the same general portion of the project.
Adjacent Properties
There has been no uranium exploration or mining activity on adjacent properties to our Goliad Project. The nearest known uranium mine from the Goliad Formation was the former Mount Lucas ISR mine near Lake Corpus Christi. Uranium Resources Inc. has been mining from the Goliad Formation in Kleberg County, southeast of Kingsville, for several years at the Kingsville Dome ISR mine and at the Rosita ISR mine in Duval County west of Alice, Texas. With the large concentration of uranium mining and exploration properties in the Goliad, Oakville, Catahoula and Jackson formations throughout the South Texas uranium trend, it is likely that additional uranium target areas could be developed in the vicinity of our Goliad Project in the future. The current or historic ISR operations mining from the Goliad Formation range from about 60 to 160 miles south and on strike of the Goliad Project.
Several historic ISR and open pit operations mining from the Oakville and Jackson Formations are located within about 50 miles west of the property
Leach Amenability
Mineral processing or metallurgical testing was not reported as being conducted on any of the samples drilled or recovered during the Moore Energy exploration in the mid-1980s. We submitted selected core samples from our core hole # 30892-111C to Energy Laboratories, Inc. in Casper, Wyoming, in January 2007. These samples from the Goliad Project were sent to the laboratory for leach amenability studies intended to demonstrate that uranium mineralization at the property was capable of being leached using conventional in situ leach chemistry. The tests do not approximate other in-situ variables (permeability, porosity, and pressure) but provide an indication of a sample's reaction rate and the potential chemical recovery.
Split sections of core were placed in laboratory containers and a lixiviate solution with 2.0 grams per liter HCO3 (NaHCO3) and either 0.50 or 0.25 g/L of H2O2 (hydrogen peroxide) was added to each test container. The containers were then rotated at 30 rpm for 16 hours. The lixiviate was then extracted from each test container and analyzed for uranium, molybdenum, sodium, sulfate, alkalinity (bicarbonate, carbonate), pH and conductance. A clean charge of lixiviate was added and the container rotated another 16 hours. Each sample rotation and lixiviate charge cycle was representative of 5 pore volumes with chemical analyses after each cycle. The cycle was repeated for a total of 6 cycles or the equivalent of 30 pore volumes.
The four core samples subjected to the leach amenability tests were determined to contain from 0.04% to 0.08% cU3O8 before testing. Leach tests conducted on the core samples from the A Zone indicate leach efficiencies of 60 to 80% U3O8 extraction, while the tails analyses indicate efficiencies of 87-89%. The differences between the two calculations involve the loss of solid clay based materials during multiple filtrations. Based on post leach solids analysis, the core intervals were leachable to a very favorable 86 to 89%. After tests the tails were reanalyzed for uranium concentration to determine the recovery, which ranged on the 4 samples using 2 methods from 60% to 89%.
Laboratory amenability testing of the cores samples indicated the uranium (dissolved elemental U) recoveries ranged from 86.4% to 88.9% in the four tests. These results show that the mineralized intervals at the Goliad Project are very amenable to ISR mining even when exposed to only one-half of the oxidant concentration normally used in the Leach Amenability test. Based on the Company's experience with ISR mining of Catahoula and Oakville uranium deposits, as well as discussions with other Goliad deposit mining personnel, the geologically younger deposits in Texas (Goliad formation) have been the most amenable to in situ leaching. The uranium recovery is generally more complete (% recovery) and occurs in a shorter time period. Both of these factors are important for ISR mine development economics.
Based on the amenability test results, the size of the mineralization at the Goliad Project, the geologic setting and the current and projected future demand and price of uranium, the most feasible and cost effective mining method for the Goliad property uranium is by ISR. This method is most suitable for the size and grade of the deposits in sands that are below the water table and situated at depths that would be prohibitive for open pit or underground mining.
The amenability testing described above was conducted on core recovered from four depth intervals from one boring. While this was a limited sampling for this property, the samples are believed to be generally representative of the characteristics of the mineralized intervals and the determined recovery ranges for these intervals is considered to be reliable. Two of the four samples tested contained approximately 0.08% cU3O8 and two contained lower grades of uranium (~0.04% cU3O8). Energy Laboratories, Inc. in Casper, Wyoming, conducted the laboratory testing for this project. The laboratory has been in business since 1952, is fully certified, but not ISO certified. Certifications include the US Environmental Protection Agency, US Nuclear Regulatory Commission and the following US states: AZ, CA, CO, FL, ID, NV, OR, SD, TX, UT and WA.
ISR Considerations
The Goliad Project appears to be most suitable for mining as an ISR (in-situ recovery) project. Although leach and permeability tests are still being conducted, south Texas uranium deposits in permeable sands situated below the groundwater table are generally favorable to ISR production.
Environmental Considerations
We have completed all of the required environmental baseline studies for the various permits needed for production. The Mine Permit application was submitted to the Texas Commission on Environmental Quality (TCEQ) in mid August 2007. The TCEQ completed their technical review in May, 2008 and issued a draft mine permit in early June, 2008. The Radioactive Material License application was submitted to the TCEQ in early December, 2008. Studies completed to compile this document include: cultural resources (including archaeology), socioeconomic impact and soils mapping, baseline gamma survey, baseline soil/sediment/surface water/vegetation, baseline radon, and gamma exposure rates. The cultural resources study found no adverse impacts to the site and socioeconomic impacts are projected to be positive for the community. Texas Parks and Wildlife issued their report concerning the project stating that the proposed operation will have no adverse impact on natural resources. Additionally the U.S. Corp of Army Engineers has submitted a Jurisdictional Determination (JD) that the project will not impact neighboring wetlands. The Waste Disposal Well application was completed and submitted in late September, 2008. The TCEQ issued a final draft permit in September, 2009. The initial Production Permit Area (PAA-1) was completed and submitted in early September 2008, and a final draft permit was issued by the TCEQ in June, 2009.
Engineering Studies
The geotechnical engineering study for the proposed plant site has been completed and mine planning, including engineering design for the proposed plant site, is in progress. 20 Regional Baseline water quality wells have been installed for monitoring the aquifer within the mineralized zones and pump tests on the aquifer are planned. Laboratory testing has indicated 86-89% leach ability of tested core samples and the results indicate that the mineralization is amenable to in situ leaching with an oxygenated bicarbonate lixiviant.
Soils in the upper 25 feet at the proposed site are variable with dominantly brown to light brown sandy silty clay in the upper 4 to 6 feet. Soils grade to tan sandy clayey silt that is generally present to depth of the investigation (25 feet). The shallow clayey soils have relatively high plasticity indices (PI) with lower PIs in the silty soils below. Groundwater was not encountered while drilling the borings.
The primary recommendation in the report is to construct a reinforced concrete mat type foundation sized for a uniform allowable loading of 2,000 pounds per square foot.
The report and recommendations indicates there are no apparent problem soils and the recommended slab and foundation should be suitable for the intended use of the slab.
Goliad Project Permitting Plan - 2011/2012
There are currently no further exploratory programs scheduled or contemplated for the Goliad Project.
In regards to the environmental permitting at the Goliad Project, geologists and engineers performing work at the Goliad Project have developed a timetable of forecasted workflow, which includes the forecasted completion dates of various tasks which have been assigned to various personnel. The workflow has been broken down into two broad categories, which have then been further broken down into individual tasks, many of which can be performed contemporaneously. The two major categories of work relate to radioactive materials licenses and mine permits.
Within these two broad categories of work are included the following tasks, many of which are required by the regulatory bodies to whom the Company is subject to oversight for its exploration activities. If applicable, the forecasted completion dates of the task is also indicated. These are internal forecasts only, and the actual dates of the beginning or completion of these tasks may differ materially from the forecasts..
In September 2010, the administrative judge issued an initial Proposal for Decision which recommended findings in favor of the Company on the vast majority of the issues from the hearing referred to in the table below. He also recommended that the TCEQ allow the submission of additional data to address limited remaining issues. The additional limited information involves a 24-hour pump test at the Goliad project. The test was completed with favorable results submitted to the TCEQ.
In August 2011, the TCEQ issued a draft RML license for the Goliad project. RMLs are initially issued in draft form to allow the Company the opportunity to review the license and provide TCEQ with comments or suggested changes to the license. Uranium Energy Corp has already begun its review of the license and will provide TCEQ its comments as soon as possible. Once UEC files its comments, TCEQ will complete its final internal review and prepare the Final RML. A 30-day public notice of the agency's action will follow, providing the public with a chance to comment on the license before it is finalized.
Radioactive Materials License
Archaeology/History study
N/A
Completed
Ecology study
N/A
Completed
Soils/Sediments/Gamma testing
N/A
Completed
Gamma/Radon-222 testing
N/A
Completed
Socioeconomic study
N/A
Completed
Radiological assessment
N/A
Completed
MILDOS survey
N/A
Completed
Scoping Study
N/A
Completed
Agency review and approval
Q4 2008 - Q4 2011
In Progress. Draft RML License received August 2011
Mine Permit
Area groundwater baseline study
N/A
Completed
Geology/Hydrology study
N/A
Completed
Deep disposal well study
N/A
Completed
Mine permit review and draft permit approval
N/A
Completed
Disposal well review and approval
N/A
Completed
Air exemption permit
N/A
Completed
EPA aquifer exemption
Q4 2008 - Q4 2011
Submitted and in review process with the EPA
PAA review and approva1
N/A
Completed
Upon the satisfactory completion of these tasks, and with approval of all applicable regulatory agencies involved in these tasks, the Company may then proceed with uranium extraction, provided that this exploration property can establish economic uranium reserves.
Permitting
The permitting process is well underway and the Company has accomplished the following key elements to that end:
quality assurance and quality control measures have been completed on water well samples;
Holt Engineering has completed geotechnical studies at the proposed processing facility;
a qualified soil scientist has completed a draft map of the entire project site, as part of the soils and sediments study;
the economic impact study and the ecological study have been completed;
the mine plan and full process facility designs have been completed;
established a regional baseline, or background, water quality conditions within the area to be mined. As part of the establishment of baseline water quality conditions within the planned permit area, the TCEQ required that 20 regional water quality wells be installed within the proposed permit area. The purpose of the wells is to assess the pre-mining water quality of the four mineralized sands (A, B, C and D). Also included in the establishment of regional baseline water quality conditions is the sampling and analysis of private water wells within a one-kilometer radius of the permit area. This action has been completed; and
the Cultural Resource Survey and Assessment has been completed and concluded that the Goliad Project will not have any impact on cultural resources in the permit area, and that no further work is required on this matter by the Company. The assessment was reviewed and approved by the Texas Historical Commission.
Texas Parks and Wildlife have reviewed our proposal mine plan and have concluded that no significant impact to wildlife, May - 2008.
The Corp of Army Engineers have also received our mine plan and have determined that it will not have any adverse impacts to area wetlands.
Mineral Exploration Properties
We hold mineral properties in the States of Arizona, Colorado, New Mexico, Texas, and Wyoming by way of mining claims and state and private mineral leases. The mining claim properties were staked and claimed by us and registered with the US Bureau of Land Management ("BLM"). There are claim blocks acquired in this manner in Arizona, Colorado, New Mexico, and Wyoming. We have surface access and complete mineral rights to an unlimited depth below surface. The claims are in effect for an indefinite period provided the claims are kept in good standing with the BLM and the counties on an annual basis. The claims were entered into between November 4, 2004 and July 2011.
Annual maintenance fees to be paid to the BLM are relatively nominal. We will also be required to remediate the land upon release of the claim - bringing the land back into the state it was originally in prior to the commencement of our exploration activities. These costs are determined by the BLM and bonded accordingly.
In the States of Arizona, Colorado, New Mexico, Texas, and Wyoming we are participating in our mineral properties by way of property leases directly from the owners of the land/mineral rights. As of the date of this report we have executed leases in Arizona, Colorado, New Mexico, Texas, and Wyoming. These leases give us similar access and privileges as described above, however with some important differences. Although we will have access to the surface, the mineral rights below surface are restricted to uranium and associated fissionable minerals only, with any other minerals and hydro carbons, including, for example, petroleum, retained by the lessor. The lease terms are for five years, and include five-year renewal periods for a majority of the leases. After the expiration of the second five-year term the leases will be either held by production or the leases will be terminated. Royalty payments must be made to the lessor in event that we extract uranium ore from the properties. Royalty payments vary based on a fixed percentage to a sliding scale percentage tied to the sale price of uranium. All royalties are based on the gross sales revenue less certain charges and fees.
At July 31, 2011, we have the following gross and net acre mineral property interests in states indicated below under lease:
(1) Certain of our interests in our mineral properties in Colorado, New Mexico and Texas are less than 100%. Accordingly, we have presented the acreage of our mineral properties on a net acre basis.
We plan to conduct exploration programs on these properties with the objective of determining the existence of any economic concentrations of uranium.
Since inception we have not established any proven or probable reserves on our mineral property interests.
On October 11, 2005, we entered into a Mineral Asset Option Agreement (the "Option") with Brad A. Moore giving us the option to acquire certain uranium leases from Mr. Moore in the State of Texas. In consideration for the Option we have paid Mr. Moore a cash payment of $50,000 and issued 1,000,000 shares of our restricted common stock. The Option, which was exercised, required the further issuance of 2,000,000 restricted shares of common stock in varying share installments over the three, six month intervals following the effective date of the Option Agreement (October 11, 2005). A further payment of $150,000 was paid under the Option on February 1, 2006. Title to the properties transferred upon payment of all remaining stock required under the Option. During the Option term we had the right as operator to conduct or otherwise direct all the exploration on the properties to be acquired. As of this date all cash consideration and share issuances required pursuant to the terms of the Option have been completed.
During Fiscal 2010, the Company sold its 49% interest in Cibola Resources, LLC for a cash payment of $11.0 million. As a result, the Company recorded an $8,534,081 gain on the sale of assets which is reported as discontinued operations.
Arizona
All of our Arizona claims and state leases were previously the subject of exploration drilling for the incidence of uranium by companies such as Noranda, Inc., Uranerz Energy Corp., Homestake Mining Co., Occidental Minerals and Oklahoma Public Services. We have acquired a 1979 Oklahoma Public Services ("OPS") geologic report contiguous to our claims (Artillery Peak), as well as gamma-ray logs from Homestake, that indicates the possibility of incidence of uranium. OPS drilling continued on to our claims as evidenced by drill holes verified on the ground, and such drill cuttings were found to be radioactive. Close spaced developmental drilling is indicated on our claims located at Artillery Peak.
Other claims staked by us (Dry Mountain) in Arizona were staked on known uranium occurrences as shown on Arizona State publication, "Occurrences of Uranium in Miscellaneous Sedimentary Formations, Diatremes and Pipes and Veins". Additionally, these claims were previously drilled by companies including Homestake Mining Co., Uranerz Energy Corp. and Noranda, Inc. in the 1970's uranium boom. Our management has confirmed prior claim ownership as verified with the US Department of Interior - BLM. In addition, ground surveys completed by us have located various previous drill locations and radioactive anomalies as evidenced in ground and drill cuttings.
On November 1, 2007, we entered into a binding letter Agreement to Purchase Assets with Melvin O. Stairs, Jr. ("Mr. Stairs"), for a mineral exploration claim and related database information located in Maricopa County, Arizona. Under the terms of the agreement, the Company will pay total consideration of $1,200,000 including i) a $10,000 deposit upon execution (paid), ii) installments of $95,000 cash on January 10, 2008 (paid) and August 15, 2008, and iii) installments totaling $100,000 on January 10 and August 15 of each year for the period from January 10, 2009 through August 15, 2013. Additionally, the Company has granted the seller security interest on the acquired assets until the agreement is paid in full. On August 25, 2008, we entered into an amendment agreement pursuant to which the total consideration payable was reduced to $300,000 as follows: i) a $10,000 deposit upon execution (paid), ii) installments of $95,000 cash on January 10, 2008 (paid) and $57,000 cash (paid) and $38,000 by way of issuance of 19,000 restricted common shares of the Company at a deemed price of $2.00 per share on August 15, 2008.
On January 25, 2010, the Company and Mr. Stairs agreed to amend the August 25, 2008 Amending Agreement. We agreed to pay Mr. Stairs a further and final non-refundable Purchase Price Payment in the aggregate amount equivalent to $65,000 payable in the following manner; i) the initial $30,000 of the Purchase Price Payment by way of cash (paid); and ii) the final balance of U.S. $35,000 of this Purchase Price Payment by way of the issuance 10,448 fully paid and non-assessable restricted common shares at deemed issuance price of U.S. $3.35 per Share (issued).
We confirm that as of this date our Arizona located claims and leases contain no uranium reserves and require extensive exploration by us.
The following provides information relating to such claims:
Colorado
Claims and leases acquired by us in Colorado have historical production tonnages and grades published in the Colorado Geological Survey, Bulletin 40 - "Radioactive Mineral Occurrences of Colorado". Also, our geological staff has evaluated a portion of the claims currently owned by us. We confirm that at the current date, our Colorado located claims contain no uranium reserves and require extensive exploration by us.
In January of 2011 the Company staked a total of 88 claims in the Slick Rock district of the Uravan Mineral Belt. In June of 2011 the Company finalized a deal to purchase 103 claims from Spider Rock Mining also in the Slick Rock District. The purchase of the 103 claims was done for a one-time payment of $500,000.00. As a result, the Company now holds a total of 191 contiguous claims in the Slick Rock District.
The following provides information relating to such claims:
New Mexico
The West Ranch Project consists of approximately 7,000 acres made up of lode mining claims and private leases in northwestern New Mexico, on the northwest end of the historically uraniferous Ambrosia Lake trend of the Grants Uranium District. The property was drilled by United Nuclear Corporation and, more recently, by Kerr McGee. Historical wide-spaced drilling across the property indicates the presence of several northwest-southeast trending uranium mineralized zones within the Morrison Formation at average depths of 800 feet.
Our Laguna Trend Project consists of approximately 800 acres of lode claims on Bureau of Land Management land in northwestern New Mexico. The claim block is on-trend and several miles northeast of the historically-producing St. Anthony, Jackpile Paguate, and L-Bar uranium deposits, mined by Anaconda Minerals and Sohio. Northeast of the Company's claim block is Kerr McGee's (now Anadarko Petroleum's) uranium deposit, Rio Puerco, and Conoco's Bernabe uranium deposit. Both of these deposits are yet to be developed.
Acquisition of the Laguna Trend claim block by Uranium Energy was driven by intense analysis of the Morrison Nuclear database, which includes drilling data indicating significant uranium mineralization in the Westwater Canyon Member of the Morrison Formation. This property was most recently held by Kerr-McGee.
Red Basin consists of claims in the Datil Basin of Catron County. The project area was previously staked by Kerr-McGee with the Cretaceous de Baca Formation as the target.
Grants Ridge is a Todilto Formation target in the Grants Uranium District and is currently under option by Uran Ltd. of Perth, Australia.
In August of 2010 the Company made the determination to drop both the Laguna Trend and Red Basin claim groups.
We confirm that at the current date, our New Mexico located claims contain no uranium reserves and require extensive exploration by us.
Texas
We currently own twelve lease plays located in the South Texas uranium trend. The location and acquisition of these lease plays are based on historical information contained within our extensive database, as well as current, ongoing geologic analyses by our exploration staff.
The following provides information relating to all of our leased properties in the South Texas Uranium Trend:
Wyoming
Our five Wyoming uranium mineral property areas total 3,675.37 acres. Wyoming led the nation's uranium production in 2006 with 4,100,000 pounds of U
3O8.
The Granite Mountain Thrust ("GMT") property includes 610.80 acres of mining claims north of, and adjacent to, the Rio Tinto (Kennecott) uranium property, which has been drilled extensively since the 1960s by several entities. Our GMT property geology host rock is 2,000 to 3,000 feet thick in the early Eocene Age Battle Springs Formation - partly equivalent to the Wasatch and Wind River formations in other Wyoming Basins. We have assessed previous seismic exploration shot line data and confirmed Battle Springs Formation projections to the GMT area. The property is situated approximately eight miles east of the Crooks Gap uranium mining district, which produced about 10,000,000 pounds of U
3O8 from 1953 through 1982 by open pit mining.
The Burnt Wagon project, located 35 miles west of Casper, Wyoming, was acquired from NAMMCO (Kirkwood) in 2006. Previous operations defined shallow uranium mineralization in the Wind River formation of early Eocene
age, at 50 to 200 foot depths, from 500 drill holes and 16,000 feet of electric logging data.
Situated in the Lower Eocene Wasatch formation of the southwest Powder River Basin is our Powder River Basin LO-Herma uranium property. The exploration data was acquired from H. Brenniman as a part of the Pioneer Nuclear, Inc., package in 2006. The 29 mining claims total 591.57 acres and are contiguous to the Uranium One (formerly Energy Metals Corp.) property.
Our DL, 1,275.00 acre, property is being assessed by using Pioneer Nuclear, Inc., 1970 uranium exploration data from the H. Brenniman database.
We confirm that at the current date, our Wyoming located claims contain no uranium reserves and require extensive exploration by us.
Coronel Oviedo Project, Paraguay
On May 12, 2001 UEC announced the acquisition of the Coronel Oviedo Project in the South American country of Paraguay. Terms of the acquisition are as follows, the Company finalized Share Purchase Agreements (the "Agreement") with a Paraguayan company (the "Vendor") whereby the Vendor sold the Company 100% legal and beneficial interest in an unencumbered prospecting permit covering 247,000 acres located in the area of Coronel Oviedo, Paraguay (the "Property"), subject to a gross overriding royalty.
The total purchase price to acquire all of the shares of the Vendor was satisfied by way of the issuance of 225,000 restricted common shares in the capital of the Company.
The Company will pay the Vendor a royalty interest in the amount of one and one-half percent (1.5%) of the gross proceeds received by the Company in connection with any uranium which is produced and sold from mineral interests in the Property. The Company has the exclusive right and option at any time to acquire one-half percent (0.5%) of the aggregate royalty interest for US$500,000. The Vendor has granted the Company a right of first refusal to acquire all or any portion of the remaining one percent (1.0%) royalty interest.
Property Description and Location
The Coronel Oviedo Uranium Project (COP) is located in southeastern Paraguay, approximately 150 km east of Asuncion, the capital of Paraguay. COP consists of a large mineral concession covering a total area of approximately 100,000 ha (247,000 acres). The property can be classified as an early to intermediate stage exploration project. Several areas have undergone drilling in the past by The Anschutz Company of Denver, CO (early 1980s) and recently by Crescent Resources in 2007. Anschutz was backed at the time by both Korean and Taiwanese-based power consortiums. Access to the project is by paved roads from Asuncion to the City of Coronel Oviedo and other populated areas. There is good access into the interior of the concession mainly by unpaved secondary roads. The terrain is rolling hills with areas of forest, small farms, and some large cattle ranches.
Prior Exploration
The Property, covering over 247,000 acres in central Paraguay, was subject to extensive uranium exploration between 1976 and 1983 by Anschutz Corporation of Denver, Colorado, and by Crescent Resources of Vancouver, Canada between 2006 and 2008. Most of the uranium occurrences in this environment are "roll front" type deposits similar to those currently being produced by low-cost in-situ recovery (ISR) methods in Texas, the western United States, Central Asia and Australia. The work by Anchustz and Crescent was centered on a large belt of Permo-Carboniferous age continental sandstones that represent the western flank of the Parana Basin. According to the Geological Survey of Brazil or CPRM, these same sandstones within the Brazilian section of the Parana Basin contain numerous uranium occurrences including the Figueira Mine that hosted 19 million pounds of U3O8 according to reports.
Between 1976 and 1983, Anschutz Corporation, with joint venture partners Korea Electric Power and Taiwan Power Company, spent approximately US$30 million evaluating an area covering over 6.2 million acres of prospective ground in central and eastern Paraguay. This work consisted of airborne radiometric and magnetic surveys, detailed geological mapping, and ground geophysical and geochemical surveys, which narrowed down the areas of interest. This work was followed by regional-scale drilling at initially 9-mile spacing, drilled across inferred host trends.
Anschutz identified the Property as prospective towards the end of their regional program. In total, approximately 28 widely spaced drill holes were drilled on the Property, and of these, 17 drill holes showed significant uranium values, with the best being 6.2 feet of 0.153% U3O8 at a starting depth of 785 feet. The drilling also identified 3 mineralized fronts, and a 75 mile-long fault structure which appears to have been the source of the gases that localized the concentration of uranium, "again very similar to a South Texas-type uranium depositional model".
From 2006 to 2008, the Property was optioned to Crescent Resources. During this period, a total of 24 holes were drilled and logged in the southern portion of the Property, offsetting mineralized holes drilled by Anschutz. A NI 43-101 Technical Report reported that 14 of the 24 holes had a grade-thickness (GT) product (in feet) equal to or greater than 0.30GT. GT values equal to and above 0.30 are typically considered producible under ISR production methodology. The best hole reported by Crescent intersected 0.99% U3O8 over 10.2 feet. The Crescent and Anschutz drilling identified an open-ended area characterized by tabular mineralization similar to that found at the Company's Goliad Project. The known uranium mineralization on the Property intersected by the past drilling is at depths between 450 and 750 feet. Crescent dropped the option on the Property in 2008.
Aquifer Test
During 2010, and prior to the acquisition of the Property, the Company conducted a 24-hour aquifer test in the area of the resource trend identified by the combined Anschutz-Crescent drilling programs. The test was designed to assess aquifer properties of the Fine Grained Sand Unit (FGSU), a uranium-bearing sandstone within the San Miguel Formation. The focus of the test was to determine if the aquifer could sustain extraction rates typical of ISR mining of uranium.
Results of the test indicate that the uranium-bearing unit has aquifer characteristics that would support operational rates for ISR mining. There is sufficient hydraulic head and aquifer transmissivity that would allow individual wells to be pumped at rates of up to 45 gallons/min for sustained intervals. The aquifer properties determined from the hydrologic test fall within the range of values determined at other uranium ISR projects located in Wyoming, Texas and Nebraska. Production rates from wells in these areas are typically in the range of 10 to 50 gallons/min.
The Company is currently evaluating all available technical data in preparation for an exploration program to commence shortly.
Advisory Board for the Paraguay Project
As a key factor in the acquisition, the Company has added two uranium industry veterans, Dr. Bernie D. Schmeling and Carlos Figueredo, to a special advisory board focusing on Paraguay to bolster its management capabilities in Latin America. Dr. Schmeling, currently Chief Operating Officer of Semin S.A., is a professional geophysicist and has more than 35 years of experience in exploration programs worldwide and mining projects for uranium and other commodities.
Previously, he was a member of the original Uranerz team as a senior and chief geophysicist for 19 years. During this period, he was closely involved, starting in 1975, with the discovery and development of the major uranium deposit at Key Lake in Saskatchewan, Canada. For 13 years, he managed all geophysical programs as well as all contracted work including all drill hole data evaluations and U3O8-grade calculations. This work included studies of radiometric disequilibrium factors and density determinations for the U3O8 resource calculations at diverse sandstone deposits in Texas, Wyoming, Nebraska, Colorado and other states. Since 2006, he has been fully involved in the exploration and development activities of Semin S.A. in Paraguay and other South American countries. Dr. Schmeling is recognized internationally as one of the few leading experts in uranium exploration including ISR exploration.
Carlos Figueredo has 25 years of experience in mineral and oil exploration in Paraguay as Chief Geologist and Assistant Mineral Exploration Manager of Semin S.A. He formerly worked for Anschutz Corporation during its initial exploration efforts in Paraguay. He played a pivotal role in the development of the Coronel Oviedo project, as well as discoveries of other commodities in eastern Paraguay.
Currently, the Company is preparing a geological model based on historical data, and is pacing its exploration program at Coronel Oviedo to be able to initiate an approximate 10,000-meter drilling program in the 4th Quarter of calendar 2011.
Exploration Work Programs
Our Vice President of Exploration, Clyde Yancey, a Certified Professional Geologist, based on historical data previously outlined and our own work product, has developed exploration programs unique to each state and claim block with the intent of proving or disproving the existence of uranium on these prospects. Exploration plans for Arizona, and Colorado are currently being formulated. There are no current exploration plans for New Mexico or Wyoming. Exploration and land acquisition in the South Texas Uranium Trend and Paraguay will continue in order to support our near term production facilities.
Other Properties
We own 32.19 acres of real estate located in Goliad County, Texas. The Goliad property and our other mineral property interests are described in detail above.
We have entered into office rental and service agreements as follows:
we currently have a month to month lease at $925 per month for our Goliad project office at 138 South Market Street, Goliad, Texas 77963. There is no lease commitment and rent and expenses are paid on a month to month basis;
we currently have a month to month lease at $2,598 per month for our New Mexico exploration office at 6100 Indian School NE, Suite 225, Albuquerque, New Mexico 87110. There is no lease commitment and rent and expenses are paid on a month to month basis;
we currently lease office space at $8,742 per month for our Texas administration office at 500 N. Shoreline Blvd., Suite 800N, Corpus Christi, Texas 78471. The lease expires on August 31, 2012; and
we rent office space at 1111 West Hasting Street, Suite 320, Vancouver, B.C., Canada V6E 2J3, for our corporate administration office. There is no lease commitment and rent and expenses are paid on a month to month basis.
Our Databases
We have acquired historical exploration data that will assist in the direction of proposed exploration program on lands held in our current property portfolio. This prior exploration data consists of management information and work product derived from various reports, drill hole assay results, drill hole logs, studies, maps, radioactive rock samples, exploratory drill logs, state organization reports, consultants, geological study and other exploratory information.
The following provides information relating to our database:
Tronox Worldwide
Effective February 20, 2008, we acquired from Tronox Worldwide LLC certain assets, consisting of certain maps, data, exploration results and other information pertaining to lands within the United States (excluding New Mexico and Wyoming), Canada and Australia, and specifically including the former uranium exploration projects by Kerr McGee Corporation. The Tronox database contains records on some of our properties located in Arizona, the Colorado Plateau and Texas.
We have exclusive ownership of this database.
Jebsen
The Jebsen database covers territory in Wyoming and New Mexico, including some of our existing properties. The database belonged to a pioneering uranium developer and represents work conducted from the 1950s through to the present.
This database adds over 500 drill holes and over 500,000 feet of drilling data results to the Company's existing library of data. Other than logs, the data set consists of volumes of maps, lithographic logs, geologic reports, and feasibility studies, and many other essential tools for uranium exploration and development.
Our geologists have linked contents of the database to some of our existing properties, specifically pertaining to our projects in the Shirley Basin and Powder River Basin of Wyoming, and in the Grants Uranium District of New Mexico.
We have exclusive ownership of this database.
Halterman
The Halterman database consists of exploratory and development work compiled during the 1970s and 80s, including extensive data on significant prospects and projects in the following known uranium districts in the States of Colorado, New Mexico and Utah, including Grants, San Juan Basin, Chama Basin, Moab, Lisbon Valley, Dove Creek, Slick Rock and Uravan districts.
This database includes drilling and logging data from over 200,000 feet of uranium exploration and development drilling, resource evaluations and calculations, drill-hole locations and grade thickness maps, competitor activity maps as well as several dozen geological and project evaluation reports covering uranium projects in New Mexico, Colorado, Utah, Texas and California.
We have exclusive ownership of this database.
Brenniman
The Brenniman database includes drilling and logging data from over 2 million feet of uranium exploration and development drilling, resource calculation reports and various other geological reports, drill hole location maps and other mapping. This database includes approximately 142 drill hole gamma and E-logs. The data was originally compiled from 1972 to 1981 by various exploration companies, and covers over 100 uranium prospects in 15 southern US states. This library will be used by our technical personnel to determine locations of where drill-indicated uranium may exist.
We have exclusive ownership of this database.
Nueces
We have acquired copies of uranium drill logs from previous uranium exploration drilling projects covering a large area in the South Texas uranium trend. The data consists of approximately 150,000 feet of drill logs from 366 drill holes. This drill data provides regional geologic information and will be used to locate possible mineralized zones within the area of the South Texas uranium trend.
The data was acquired from Nueces Minerals Company, a privately-held oil and gas production company which owns the mineral rights to 72,000 contiguous acres covering portions of four counties in south Texas.
We do not have ownership or exclusive rights to this data.
Kirkwood
We acquired a database of uranium exploration results covering an area of approximately 13,000 acres within the uranium zone known as the Poison Spider area, in central Wyoming. The area covered includes property already held by us, as well as by other publicly-traded uranium exploration companies. The database was compiled by William Kirkwood of North American Mining and Minerals Company ("NAMMCO"), a significant participant in the uranium, coal, gold and oil and gas industries in the western United States since the 1960s. The data acquired was generated from exploration originally conducted by companies such as Homestake Mining, Kennecott Corp, Rampart Exploration, as well as Kirkwood Oil and Gas, largely between 1969 and 1982. The database consists of drill hole assay logs for 470 holes, including 75,200 feet of drilling, 22,000 feet of gamma logs, drill hole location maps, cross sections, geological maps, geological reports, and other assay data and will be used to locate possible mineralized zones in the Poison Spider area in central Wyoming.
We have exclusive ownership of this database.
Knupke
We acquired rights to a uranium database consisting of 40 years worth of uranium exploration results, gathered largely from the South Texas uranium trend, where we have already been actively acquiring interests in land on the basis of the data, and will be used to locate possible mineralized zones.
The rights to this exploration database were provided to the Company by James A. Knupke, Consulting Geologist of Corpus Christi, Texas. Under terms of an agreement Mr. Knupke provided consulting services to the Company, which included the review of his database. Upon review of the database we acquired several prospective properties. We have terminated the agreement as we had substantially exhausted our review of Mr. Knupke's data.
We do not own or have exclusive rights to this database.
Odell
We acquired the rights to a database containing over 50 years of uranium exploration data for the State of Wyoming.
This database consists of 315,000 feet of drill logs, over 400 maps, copies of all US geological survey uranium publications dating back to 1954, and geological reports on uranium ore bodies throughout Wyoming. The database will be used to locate possible mineralized zones. The database is made available to the Company by Robert Odell, the compiler and publisher of the Rocky Mountain Uranium Minerals Scout since 1974.
We do not own or have exclusive rights to this database.
Moore
We acquired a database of US uranium exploration results from Moore Energy Corporation ("Moore Energy"), a private Oklahoma-based uranium exploration company.
The Moore Energy US uranium database consists of over 30 years of uranium exploration information in the States of Texas, New Mexico and Wyoming, originally conducted during the 1970s, 80s and 90s. It includes results of over 10,000 drill holes, plus primary maps, and geological reports. It covers approximately one million acres of prospective uranium claims, in the South Texas uranium trend, New Mexico, and Powder River Basin, Wyoming, as well as zones in Texas, and will be used to locate possible mineralized zones.
The database also provides the Company with exploration data about its Goliad Project in south Texas, including 250,000 feet of drill logs and further delineates zones of potential uranium mineralization. It also contains drilling results from properties that are being developed by other uranium exploration companies, and also widespread regional data from throughout the South Texas uranium trend.
We have exclusive ownership of this database.
Uranium Resources Inc.
We acquired the full database of historic drill results for the Company's Salvo in-situ recovery uranium project in Bee County, TX.
The database consists of 433 gamma ray/resistivity and lithology logs, PGT logs and drill plan maps.
Uranium One - South Texas Goliad Project
The South Texas Goliad database includes raw and interpreted data compiled by Total Minerals ("TOMIN") and others from the mid 1980's to 1993. The database is an evaluation of the uranium potential within the Goliad Formation from south of Houston to the Mexican border.
Historically, following TOMIN's purchase of the Holiday - El Mesquite project, Duval County, Texas, 1990, TOMIN found themselves in the possession of the Mobil uranium exploration database. Starting with this data, TOMIN also gathered regional oil and gas logs (included in the database), water well driller logs, and other regional information to begin their study of the Goliad Formation along the South TX Uranium Trend. Uranium One estimates it represents 2-3 man years.
As a result of the study, TOMIN identified 62 targets and drilled 22 by project end in 1993. Of the 22 drilled, 19 were disproved and the remaining awaits further drilling to develop trends. There remains another 40 targets to be evaluated.
To summarize, the database contains:
4,894 South Texas uranium logs - 2.8 million feet of drilling
13,882 South Texas O&G logs - 41.6 million feet
752 maps/sections across South Texas
103 documents, reports, analyses documenting the study.
ITEM 3.