Item 2. PROPERTIES
PROPERTIES
Appalachian Basin / Marcellus Shale
With the completion of the acquisition of Triad in February of 2010, as of March 29, 2010, the Company held approximately 87,000 net acres in the Appalachian Basin including approximately 46,000 net acres overlying the Marcellus Shale. At year-end 2009, proved reserves from our Appalachian Basin area of operations on an SEC basis were 5.1 MMboe, consisting of 65% oil and an estimated 61% were classified as proved developed producing, with a PV10 of $56.4 million. Using NYMEX strip prices, our proved reserves were 5.7 MMboe and our PV-10 was $119 million. We operate 2,048 wells and exited 2009 with a production rate of approximately 830 Boepd.
The Appalachian Basin includes the states of West Virginia, Ohio, Kentucky, Pennsylvania, Maryland, New York, Virginia, and Tennessee and is considered the most mature oil and gas producing region in the United States. Because the Appalachian Basin is located near the energy-consuming regions of the mid-Atlantic and northeastern United States, Appalachian producers have historically sold their natural gas at a premium to the benchmark price for natural gas on the NYMEX. Historically, producers in the Appalachian Basin developed oil and natural gas from Upper Devonian age shallow sandstones with low permeability, which are prevalent in the region. Traditional shallow wells in the Appalachian Basin generally produce little or no water, contributing to a low cost of operation. In addition, most wells produce dry natural gas, which does not require processing. However, times have changed for the Appalachian Basin. In recent years, the application of lateral well drilling and completion technology has lead to the development of the Marcellus Shale; transforming the Appalachian Basin into one of the country’s premier economic shale gas reserves.
The productive limits of the Marcellus Shale cover a large area within New York, Pennsylvania, Ohio and West Virginia. This Devonian age shale is a black, organic rich shale deposit productive at depths between 5,000 and 8,500 feet and ranges in thickness from 50 to over 200 feet. It is considered the largest natural gas field in the country. Marcellus gas is best produced from hydraulically fractured horizontal wellbores. These horizontal laterals exceed 2,000 feet in length, and typically involve multistage fracturing completions. The Company’s Marcellus acreage covers Pleasants, Tyler and Ritchie counties within West Virginia. As of March 29, 2010 the Company operates 32 vertical Marcellus wells defining the potential within our existing acreage.
The Company’s mineral lease acreage covers Pleasants, Tyler, Ritchie, Calhoun, Clay, Roane, Wayne, Wirt, Wood, and Lewis Counties in West Virginia, Leigh, Elliott and Morgan Counties in Kentucky and Morgan, Noble and Washington Counties in Ohio. As of March 29, 2010, we had over 87,000 net acres in the Appalachian Basin including approximately 46,000 net acres in the Marcellus Shale. As of March 29, 2010, approximately 75% of our leases are held by production. Our shallow production comes from the Berea, Macksburg 500 Sand, Devonian Shale and the Clinton/Medina Sands and we also believe that our acreage may also have the possibility of producing from the Trenton-Black River and Huron formations. The Huron formation has also benefited from lateral well drilling technology. In addition to our Marcellus Shale acreage, we also have significant enhanced waterflood oil recovery operations in Calhoun, Clay and Roane counties in West Virginia including our Granny’s Creek Field, Richardson Unit and Tariff unit.
In 2010, we plan to expand our Marcellus program, drilling a minimum of two horizontal wells from our inventory of over 25 identified horizontal drilling locations at a cost of approximately $7.0 million.
North Dakota-Williston Basin / Madison Group / Bakken Shale
At December 31, 2009, the Company owned an approximately 43% average working interest in 15 fields located in the Williston Basin in North Dakota comprising 146 wells and approximately 18,600 gross acres (approximately 90% of which is held by production) located in Burke, Renville, Ward, Bottineau and McHenry counties in North Dakota. As of December 31, 2009, our proved reserves on an SEC basis were an estimated 3.1 Mmboe with a PV-10 of $45.7 million with approximately 94 % and 89% of our reserves and production, respectively, consisting of oil. As of December 31, 2009, on a NYMEX strip basis, our proved reserves were 3.3 Mmboe with a PV-10 of $81.5 million. At December 31, 2009, we had a production exit rate of approximately 440 Boepd from our North Dakota properties.
The Williston Basin is spread across North Dakota, Montana and parts of southern Canada with the United States portion of the basin encompassing approximately 143,000 square miles. The basin produces oil and gas from numerous producing horizons including the Madison, Bakken, Three Forks/Sanish and Red River formations.
The Bakken formation is a Devonian-age shale found within the Williston Basin. The Bakken Shale is estimated to contain up to 4.3 billion barrels of recoverable crude oil according to a report issued by the United State Geological Survey (“USGS”) in April 2008, making it the largest continuous crude oil accumulation ever assessed by the USGS. Generally the Bakken formation underlies portions of North Dakota and Montana and is generally found at vertical depths of 9,000 to 10,500 feet. Below the Lower Bakken Shale lies the Three Forks/Sanish formation, and the Three Forks Shale has also proven to contain reservoir rock. The Three Forks/Sanish typically consists of interbedded dolomites and shale with local development of a discontinuous sandy member at the top, known as the Sanish sand. Crude oil production from the Bakken Shale and Three Forks/Sanish reservoirs is made possible through the combination of advanced horizontal drilling and fracture stimulation technology. Combining these two technologies to produce crude oil from the Bakken formation began to evolve around year 2000. Horizontal wells in these formations are typically drilled on 320,640 acre or 1,280 acre spacing with horizontal laterals extending 4,500 to 9,500 feet into the reservoir. Fracture stimulation techniques vary but most commonly utilize multi-stage mechanically diverted stimulations using un-cemented liners and packers.
Eagle Operating is the current operator of our Williston Basin properties. Re-pressurization efforts commenced in November of 2002, which have resulted in the ability to begin secondary recovery efforts through conventional and horizontal drilling activities in seven of the 15 producing fields. We have identified approximately 80 horizontal drilling locations. We drilled three horizontal wells in the fourth quarter of 2009 with a combined initial production rate of approximately 525 Boe per day (gross). These wells cost approximately $1.1 million gross per well and have estimated average of approximately 200,000 boe EUR gross per well.
South Texas / Eagle Ford Shale
As of March 29, 2010, we had approximately 15,000 net acres (20,000 gross) primarily targeting the Eagle Ford Shale. At year-end 2009, on an SEC basis, the Company had 590 Mboe of proved reserves and PV-10 of $3.6 million. Using NYMEX strip pricing, we had proved reserves of 603 Mboe with a PV-10 of $9.0 million.
The Eagle Ford Shale is a Cretaceous aged shale ranging in thickness of less than 100 feet to over 500 feet. The Eagle Ford Shale is present within the subsurface along the entire Gulf Coast of Texas and is productive within the majority of the trend, producing from the more brittle calcareous or dolomitic shale sections. The Eagle Ford Shale produces from depths that range from approximately 6,500 feet to 15,000 feet deep. To date, the Eagle Ford Shale produces in the Texas counties of Atascosa, Brazos, Burleson, Dewitt, Dimmit, Gonzales, Karnes, La Salle, Lee, Live Oak, Maverick, McMullen and Webb, spanning approximately 300 miles of the Texas Gulf Coast and is becoming one of newest emerging successful shale reserves in the country.
The Company has focused in the up-dip oil trend of the Eagle Ford Shale (7,000 feet to 11,000 feet) to provide better economics metrics and commodity stability. As of March 29, 2010, Magnum Hunter Resources had over 20,000 gross acres leased in the Eagle Ford Shale within the up-dip oil trend in Atascosa, Gonzales, Lee and Fayette counties, Texas. At March 20, 2010, we controlled approximately 15,000 net acres of Eagle Ford Shale and operate all of our Eagle Ford Shale properties. We have identified approximately 35 horizontal Eagle Ford Shale drilling locations. Working interest varies from 50% in Lee and Fayette Counties, Texas to 100% in Gonzales and Atascosa Counties, Texas.
In February 2010, as part of the Company’s ongoing evaluation of the Eagle Ford Shale, we fraced and tested a vertical Eagle Ford Shale well, the Barbara Ann Unit #1, in Lee County, Texas. We believe that frac stimulation is the most important element in the successful completion of these shale wells and understanding frac dynamics within these shales using existing vertical wells will allow us to better plan completions within our proposed horizontal wells. Our South Texas acreage has conventional oil and natural gas potential derived from both the Austin Chalk and Wilcox formations. Our Eberstadt # 1 well, located in the South Caesar Field of Bee County, Texas, began flowing to sales on February 1, 2010 with a daily production rate of approximately 1,500 Mcf, producing from a gross 100 foot thick section of the middle Wilcox formation. We believe that at least two additional Wilcox wells can be drilled offsetting the Eberstadt #1.
We have budgeted an estimated $6.95 million in capital expenditures for 2010 associated with leasing new acreage and the drilling of two horizontal wells, which are currently expected to commence in the second quarter of 2010. We are also exploring multiple Joint Venture opportunities with third parties in the Eagle Ford Shale.
South Louisiana / East Chalkley
Our East Chalkley field is located in Cameron Parish, Louisiana. The unit consists of approximately 714 gross acres. This developmental project is an exploitation of bypassed oil reserves remaining in a natural gas field located at depths between 9,300 feet and 9,400 feet. Proved reserves on an SEC basis at December 31, 2009 totaled 285 Mboe, consisting of 88% oil and 49% proved developed, with PV-10 of $3.9 million. On a NYMEX strip basis, our proved reserves were 293 Mboe with a PV-10 of $7.3 million. On October 15, 2009, we acquired Centurion Exploration Company LLC’s ownership interest East Chalkley for $1.7 million. Subsequently, on October 23, 2009, we divested a portion of our ownership interest for $500,000. Following the acquisition of additional ownership interest and subsequent partial divestiture, we now operate East Chalkley and own a 62% working interest with a 42.78% net revenue interest. During 2009, we added a salt water disposal well to reduce operating expenses and we put in electrification of the facilities. We estimate the future potential of the project to include three producing wells and three injection wells. As of March 29, 2010, we have two wells producing at a rate of approximately 100 gross Bbls per day. We have not allocated any capital to this project in 2010, as of March 29, 2010.
West Texas / Cinco Terry
We own a 10% working interest in an exploratory prospect area in Crockett County, Texas. The Cinco Terry project area has oil and natural gas potential from multiple horizons, including the Canyon (approximately 7,500 feet to 8,100 feet) and Ellenburger Sands (approximately 8,200 feet to 8,800 feet). We exited 2009 producing approximately 280 boepd, compared with 287 bbls per day in 2008. Our proved reserves at December 31, 2009 on an SEC PV-10 basis were 2.3 Mmboe, consisting of 62% oil and NGLs and 41% were classified as proved developed, with PV-10 of $12.2 million. On a NYMEX strip basis we had proved reserves of 2.3 Mmboe and a PV-10 of $27.8 million. Cinco Terry is operated by Approach Resources, Inc. and consists of approximately 50,000 gross acres (5,000 net). In 2009, we successfully drilled and completed 23 gross wells for total capital cost of about $2.2 million to the Company. We have identified approximately 150 additional drilling locations. In 2010, we plan to spend approximately $1 million in the Cinco Terry Prospect.
Other Properties
East Texas / Surprise - The Surprise Project is located in Nacogdoches County, Texas with natural gas potential from multiple horizons including James Lime, Pettit, Travis Peak, Expanded Bossier, Cotton Valley, and Haynesville Shale formations. The prospect is operated by Goodrich Petroleum Corporation. The prospect area consists of approximately 3,000 gross (300 net) acres and we have a 10% working interest in the prospect and a net revenue interest of 7.4%. As of March 29, 2010, we do not have any capital allocated to this project in 2010.
Other - In addition to our unconventional and other conventional properties, we have approximately 184,300 gross (31,287 net) undeveloped acres in the States of New Mexico, Kentucky and Utah. As of March 29, 2010, we do not plan to allocate capital to these areas in 2010. Furthermore, in 2009, we allowed our acreage positions in Allen Parish, Louisiana and Floyd and Motley Counties, Texas to expire, as they were not deemed conducive to our new business strategy.
Reserves
Our Oil and gas properties are primarily located in the (i) Appalachian Basin in West Virginia, Ohio and Kentucky with substantial acreage in the Marcellus Shale area in West Virginia; (ii) Williston Basin in North Dakota: (iii) Texas, including substantial acreage in the Eagle Ford Shale area; and (iv) Southern Louisiana. Our natural gas and crude oil reserves have been estimated as of December 31, 2009 by Cawley, Gillespie & Associates, Inc. (“CGA”), and DeGolyer & MacNaughton (“DM”). Natural gas and crude oil reserves and the estimates of the present value of future net revenues therefrom, were determined based on prices and costs as of December 31, 2009. Since January 1, 2009, we have not filed, nor were we required to file, any reports concerning our oil and gas reserves with any federal authority or agency.
There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of proved oil and gas reserves and estimates of reserve quantities and values must be viewed as being subject to significant change as more data about the properties becomes available.
Proved Reserves
In December 2008, the SEC released its finalized rule for “Modernization of Oil and Gas Reporting.” The new rule requires disclosure of oil and gas proved reserves by significant geographic area, using the arithmetic 12-month average beginning-of-the-month price for the year, as opposed to using year-end prices as was practiced in all previous years. The rule also allows for the use of reliable technologies to estimate proved oil and gas reserves, contingent on demonstrated reliability in conclusions about reserve volumes. Under the new rules, companies are required to report on the independence and qualifications of its reserve preparer or auditor, and file reports when a third-party is relied upon to prepare reserve estimates or conduct a reserve audit. The following table sets forth our estimated proved reserves based on the new SEC rules as defined in Rule 4.10(a) of Regulation S-X and Item 1200 of Regulation S-K.
The table below summarizes our proved reserves, based on NYMEX futures strip pricing as of December 31, 2009.
All of our reserves are located within the continental United States. Reserve estimates are inherently imprecise and remain subject to revisions based on production history, results of additional exploration and development, prices of oil and natural gas and other factors. Please read “Item 1A. Risk Factors - Our estimated reserves are based on many assumptions that may turn out to be inaccurate. Any significant inaccuracies in these reserve estimates or underlying assumptions may materially affect the quantities and present value of our reserves” You should also read the notes following the table below and our Consolidated and Combined Financial Statements for the year ended December 31, 2009 in conjunction with the following reserve estimates.
The following tables include reserves related to our recent acquisition of Triad located in the Appalachian Basin, which closed in February of 2010.
The following table sets forth our estimated proved reserves at the end of each of the past three years:
(1)
The estimates of reserves in the table above conform to the guidelines of the SEC. Estimated recoverable proved reserves have been determined without regard to any economic impact that may result from our financial derivative activities. These calculations were prepared using standard geological and engineering methods generally accepted by the petroleum industry. The reserve information shown is estimated. The certainty of any reserve estimate is a function of the quality of available geological, geophysical, engineering and economic data, the precision of the engineering and geological interpretation and judgment. The estimates of reserves, future cash flows and present value are based on various assumptions, and are inherently imprecise. Although we believe these estimates are reasonable, actual future production, cash flows, taxes, development expenditures, operating expenses and quantities of recoverable oil and natural gas reserves may vary substantially from these estimates.
(2)
We converted crude oil and NGLs to Mcf equivalent at a ratio of one barrel to six Mcfe.
(3)
Represents the present value, discounted at 10% per annum (PV-10), of estimated future cash flows before income tax of our estimated proved reserves. The estimated future cash flows set forth above were determined by using reserve quantities of proved reserves and the periods in which they are expected to be developed and produced based on prevailing economic conditions. The estimated future production is priced based on the 12-month unweighted arithmetic average of the first-day-of-the-month price for the period January through December 2009, using $61.18 per bbl and $3.866 per MMBtu and adjusted by lease for transportation fees and regional price differentials. Management believes that the presentation of the non-GAAP financial measure of PV-10 provides useful information to investors because it is widely used by professional analysts and sophisticated investors in evaluating oil and natural gas companies. For an explanation of why we show PV-10 and a reconciliation of PV-10 to the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flow. Please read “Item 1A. Risk Factors-Our estimated reserves are based on many assumptions that may turn out to be inaccurate. Any significant inaccuracies in these reserve estimates or underlying assumptions may materially affect the quantities and present value of our reserves.”
Marcellus Infrastructure Assets
The Triad acquisition brought important infrastructure assets for the effective development of the Marcellus Shale unconventional resource. With increased drilling activity in the region, relying on third-party oilfield service providers and pipeline operators can be costly. We feel that control of key oil field services allows us to manage the timing and costs of drilling and production. Furthermore, we believe that access to a pipeline system is vital to flow natural gas to sales, often being a deciding factor on drilling and production decisions. The summary below provides a brief overview of such services we operate and control, which mitigate certain risks associated with development of the Marcellus Shale. Additionally, we anticipate these assets will generate an attractive revenue stream as we actively market them to third-party producers in the Appalachian Basin.
Eureka Hunter Pipeline - The Eureka Hunter Pipeline consists of approximately 182 miles of pipeline, gathering and rights-of-way located in Northern West Virginia, in the Marcellus Shale. Specifically, the existing pipeline system runs through Pleasants, Tyler, Ritchie, Wetzel, Marion, Harrison, Doddridge, Lewis and Monongalia Counties. We are currently reviewing completion and expansion opportunities for the pipeline and we believe that the system can be expanded to up to 200 MMcf/d of throughput capacity. Following our anticipated expansion, we expect to have sufficient capacity to transport significant quantities of Company-produced natural gas from our Marcellus Shale development program, as well as third-party gas. We have budgeted $10 million for the completion of the first 12 miles of the pipeline project and anticipate completion in the third quarter of 2010.
Drilling Rigs and Oilfield Service Equipment - As part of the Triad acquisition in February of 2010, we acquired drilling rigs and oilfield service equipment. Our oilfield service equipment primarily consists of three drilling rigs, a workover rig and heavy machinery which are operated for us and third parties by our wholly-owned subsidiary, Alpha Hunter Drilling, LLC. We anticipate using our rigs to drill the vertical portion of our Marcellus Shale wells and then switching to larger rigs for the horizontal sections. This flexibility is expected to reduce the overall drilling costs, as well as improve the timing of drilling activity. As of March 29, 2010, two of our rigs are under a multi well drilling contract to a large producer in the area.
Salt Water Disposal Facility - Typically, Marcellus Shale wells produce significant amounts of water that, in most cases, requires disposal. Producers often remove the water in trucks for proper disposal in approved facilities. While this method has been the only option to many producers in the Appalachian Basin, it adds a significant operating burden and increases costs. We own and operate salt water disposal facilities with the current capacity of approximately 2,500 barrels of water per day. In addition to benefiting from our own disposal facilities, we market our disposal capabilities to third-party operators. In 2010, we anticipate disposal capacity will increase to over 4,000 barrels of water per day, following a $250,000 planned capital improvement.
Recent SEC Rule-Making Activity
In December 2008, the SEC announced that it had approved revisions designed to modernize the oil and gas company reserves reporting requirements. The most significant amendments to the requirements included the following:
•
Commodity Prices: Economic producibility of reserves and discounted cash flows are now based on a 12-month average commodity price unless contractual arrangements designate the price to be used.
•
Disclosure of Unproved Reserves: Probable and possible reserves may be disclosed separately on a voluntary basis.
•
Proved Undeveloped Reserve Guidelines: Reserves may be classified as proved undeveloped if there is a high degree of confidence that the quantities will be recovered and they are scheduled to be drilled within the next five years, unless the specific circumstances justify a longer time.
•
Reserves Estimation Using New Technologies: Reserves may be estimated through the use of reliable technology in addition to flow tests and production history.
•
Reserves Personnel and Estimation Process: Additional disclosure is required regarding the qualifications of the chief technical person who oversees the reserves estimation process. We are also required to provide a general discussion of our internal controls used to assure the objectivity of the reserves estimate.
•
Non-Traditional Resources: The definition of oil and gas producing activities has expanded and focuses on the marketable product rather than the method of extraction.
We adopted the rules effective December 31, 2009, as required by the SEC.
Effect of Adoption.
Application of the new reserve rules resulted in the use of lower prices at December 31, 2009 for both oil and gas than would have resulted under the previous rules. Use of new 12-month average pricing rules at December 31, 2009 resulted in proved reserves of approximately 6.2 MMboe. Use of the old year-end prices rules would have resulted in proved reserves of approximately 6.5 MMboe at December 31, 2009. Therefore, the total impact of the new price methodology rules resulted in negative reserves revisions of 0.4 MMboe.
Proved Undeveloped Reserves (PUD’s)
As of December 31, 2009, our proved undeveloped reserves totaled 2.1 MMboe of crude oil, 0.4 MMboe of NGLs and 4.4 Bcf of natural gas, for a total of 3.3 MMboe. Changes in PUDs that occurred during the year were due to:
•
Successful drilling of 23 PUD locations in West Texas
•
Successful drilling of 2 PUD locations in the Mohall Madison Unit in North Dakota and the re-drill of a Probable Undeveloped location in the East Flaxton Madison Unit in North Dakota.
•
Successful re-pressurization results associated with two fields in North Dakota
Costs incurred relating to the development of PUD’s were approximately $7.6 million in 2009. Estimated future development costs relating to the development of PUD’s are projected to be approximately $17.0 million in 2010, $9.6 million in 2011, and $5.6 million in 2012.
All PUD drilling locations are scheduled to be drilled prior to the end of 2012. Initial production from these PUD’s is expected to begin between 2010 to 2013. We do not have PUD’s associated with reserves that have been booked for longer than three years.
The following table summarizes the changes in our proved reserves for the year ended December 31, 2009:
Reserve Estimation.
Cawley, Gillespie & Associates, Inc. (“CGA”) and DeGolyer & MacNaughton (“DM”), two independent petroleum engineering firms, evaluated our oil and gas reserves on a consolidated basis as of December 31, 2009. At December 31, 2009, these third party consultants collectively reviewed all of our proved oil and gas reserves. The technical persons responsible for preparing our proved reserves estimates meet the requirements with regards to qualifications, independence, objectivity and confidentiality set forth in the Standards Pertaining to the Estimating and Auditing of Oil and Gas Reserves Information promulgated by the Society of Petroleum Engineers. Our independent third party engineers do not own an interest in any of our properties and are not employed by us on a contingent basis.
We maintain an internal staff of petroleum engineers and geoscience professionals who work closely with CGA and DM to ensure the integrity, accuracy and timeliness of the data used to calculate our proved oil and gas reserves. Our internal technical team members meet with CGA and DM periodically throughout the year to discuss the assumptions and methods used in the proved reserve estimation process. We provide historical information to CGA and DM for our properties such as ownership interest; oil and gas production; well test data; commodity prices and operating and development costs. The preparation of our proved reserve estimates are completed in accordance with our internal control procedures, which include the verification of input data used by CGA and DM, as well as extensive management review and approval.
Acreage and Productive Wells Summary
The following table sets forth, for our continuing operations, our gross and net acreage of developed and undeveloped oil and natural gas leases and our gross and net productive oil and natural gas wells as of December 31, 2009.
(1)
Developed acreage is the number of acres allocated or assignable to producing wells or wells capable of production.
(2)
Undeveloped acreage is lease acreage on which wells have not been drilled or completed to a point that would permit the production of commercial quantities of oil and natural gas, regardless of whether such acreage includes proved reserves.
The following two tables represent the pro forma calculation, as they include the Triad transaction which did not close until February of 2010:
(1)
Developed acreage is the number of acres allocated or assignable to producing wells or wells capable of production.
(2)
Undeveloped acreage is lease acreage on which wells have not been drilled or completed to a point that would permit the production of commercial quantities of oil and natural gas, regardless of whether such acreage includes proved reserves.
The table below lists our wells by category and area.
Substantially all of the leases summarized in the preceding table will expire at the end of their respective primary terms unless the existing lease is renewed or we have obtained production from the acreage subject to the lease before the end of the primary term; in which event, the lease will remain in effect until the cessation of production.
The following table sets forth, for our continuing operations, the gross and net acres of undeveloped land subject to leases summarized in the preceding table that will expire during the periods indicated:
Drilling Results
The following table summarizes our drilling activity for the past three years. Gross wells reflect the sum of all wells in which we own an interest. Net wells reflect the sum of our working interests in gross wells. All of our drilling activities were conducted on a contract basis by independent drilling contractors.
(1)
The success ratio is calculated as follows: (total wells drilled-non-productive wells-wells awaiting completion) / (total wells drilled-wells awaiting completion).
Oil and Gas Production, Prices and Costs
The following table shows the approximate net production attributable to our oil and gas interests, the average sales price and the average production expense attributable to our oil and gas production for the periods indicated. Production and sales information relating to properties acquired or disposed of as of December 31, 2009 is reflected in this table only since or up to the closing date of their respective acquisition or sale and may affect the comparability of the data between the periods presented.
Title to Properties
We believe that we have satisfactory title to all of our producing properties in accordance with generally accepted industry standards. As is customary in the industry, in the case of undeveloped properties, often only minimal investigation of record title is made at the initial time of lease acquisition. A more comprehensive mineral title opinion review, a topographic evaluation and infrastructure investigations are made before the consummation of an acquisition of producing properties and before commencement of drilling operations on undeveloped properties. Individual properties may be subject to burdens that we believe do not materially interfere with the use or affect the value of the properties. Burdens on properties may include:
•
customary royalty interests;
•
liens incident to operating agreements and for current taxes;
•
obligations or duties under applicable laws;
•
development obligations under oil and gas leases;
•
net profit interests;
•
overriding royalty interests;
•
non-surface occupancy leases; and
•
lessor consents to placement of wells.
Item 3.