Item 2.
PROPERTIES
Appalachian Basin Properties
The Appalachian Basin is considered one of the most mature oil and natural gas producing regions in the U.S. Our Appalachian Basin properties are located in West Virginia and Ohio, targeting the liquids rich Marcellus Shale and Utica Shale, and, to a lesser extent, in southern Appalachia.
We entered the Appalachian Basin in February 2010 through our acquisition of substantially all the assets of Triad Energy Corporation. We subsequently expanded our operations through various corporate and leasehold acreage acquisitions, including (i) the acquisition of NGAS in April 2011, which established our position in southern Appalachia, (i) the acquisition of assets from PostRock Energy Corporation and Windsor Marcellus LLC in late 2010 and early 2011, pursuant to which we acquired additional Marcellus Shale properties in Lewis, Braxton and Wetzel Counties, West Virginia, (iii) the expansion of our position in the Utica Shale in early 2012 through the acquisition of approximately 11,500 net acres in Noble and Washington Counties, Ohio and (iv) the acquisition of privately-held Viking International Resources Co., Inc. in November 2012, which added approximately 51,500 net acres to our existing position in Appalachia, including approximately 27,000 net acres in the Marcellus Shale and approximately 28,500 net acres prospective for the Utica Shale (a portion of which acreage overlaps our Marcellus Shale acreage).
As of May 1, 2013, we had approximately 81,000 net leasehold acres in the Marcellus Shale and approximately 79,000 net leasehold acres prospective for the Utica Shale (a portion of which acreage overlaps our Marcellus Shale acreage). We believe approximately 26,000 of these Utica Shale net acres are located in the wet gas window of the play. As of May 1, 2013, our 11 most recently completed Company-operated wells targeting the Marcellus Shale generated approximately 9,525 mcfepd and 5,800 mcfepd average IP-24 hour and IP-30 day rates, respectively.
As of December 31, 2012, proved reserves attributable to our Appalachian Basin properties were 36.5 mmboe on an SEC basis, of which 66% were classified as proved developed producing, and 39.8 mmboe on a NYMEX basis. As of December 31, 2012, these proved reserves had a PV-10 value of $296.0 million (SEC basis) and $401.3 million (NYMEX basis).
Our capital budget for 2013 includes approximately $150 million for capital expenditures in the Appalachian Basin, including $135 million in the Marcellus Shale and Utica Shale, and of which a total of $15 million is budgeted for lease extensions. The Utica Shale budgeted amounts are for drilling activities to test and further develop our Utica Shale leasehold acreage.
Marcellus Shale Properties
Our Marcellus Shale acreage is located principally in Tyler, Pleasants, Doddridge, Wetzel and Lewis Counties, West Virginia and in Washington, Monroe and Noble Counties, Ohio. As of May 1, 2013, the Company was operating 16 horizontal Marcellus Shale wells, and 10 horizontal wells (six net) were awaiting completion, one horizontal well (one-half net) was drilling and one drilling rig was operating on our Company-operated Marcellus Shale properties. As of May 1, 2013, approximately 76% of our mineral leases in the Marcellus Shale area were held by production. As of May 1, 2013, our 11 most recently completed Company-operated wells targeting the Marcellus Shale generated approximately 9,525 mcfepd and 5,800 mcfepd average IP-24 hour and IP-30 day rates, respectively.
The liquids rich natural gas produced in the Company’s core Marcellus Shale area (which has a btu content ranging from 1,125 to 1,435), coupled with a location near the energy-consuming regions of the mid-Atlantic and northeastern U.S., typically allow the Company to sell its natural gas at a premium to prevailing NYMEX spot prices. Historically, producers in the Appalachian Basin developed oil and natural gas from shallow Mississippian age sandstone and Upper Devonian age shales with low permeability, which are prevalent in the region. Traditional shallow wells in the Appalachian Basin generally produce little or no water, contributing to a low cost of operation. However, in recent years, the application of horizontal well drilling and completion technology has led to the development of the Marcellus Shale, transforming the Appalachian Basin into one of the country’s premier natural gas reserves. The productive limits of the Marcellus Shale cover a large area within New York, Pennsylvania, Ohio and West Virginia. This Devonian age shale is a black, organic rich shale deposit productive at depths between 5,500 and 6,500 feet and ranges in thickness from 50 to 80 feet. It is considered the largest natural gas field in the country. Marcellus Shale gas is best produced from hydraulically fractured horizontal wellbores, exceeding 2,000 feet in lateral length, and involving multistage fracturing completions.
In January 2013, Triad Hunter entered into joint development and operating agreements with Eclipse Resources, pursuant to which Triad Hunter and Eclipse Resources agreed to jointly develop a contract area consisting of approximately 1,950 leasehold acres in the Marcellus Shale and Utica Shale in Monroe County, Ohio. Each party owns a 47% working interest in the contract area. Triad Hunter is the operator for the contract area. Eclipse Resources agreed to commit its share of natural gas production from the contract area to gathering by our Eureka Hunter Gas Gathering System. We plan to drill eight Marcellus Shale wells and three Utica Shale wells pursuant to this joint development program in 2013.
In December 2011, Triad Hunter entered into joint development and operating agreements with Stone Energy, pursuant to which Triad Hunter and Stone Energy agreed to jointly develop a contract area consisting of approximately 1,925 leasehold acres in the Marcellus Shale in Wetzel County, West Virginia. Each party owns a 50% working interest in the contract area. Stone Energy is the operator for the contract area. Stone Energy also contributed to the joint venture certain infrastructure assets, including improved roadways, certain central field processing units (including water handling) and gas flow lines, and agreed to commit its share of natural gas production from the contract area to gathering by our Eureka Hunter Gas Gathering System. As of May 1, 2013, Stone Energy had drilled and completed seven producing Marcellus Shale wells pursuant to this joint development program. We expect an additional four program wells to be on production in the summer of 2013.
In October 2011, Triad Hunter entered into a processing agreement with MarkWest pursuant to which MarkWest will provide long-term gas processing and related services for natural gas produced by Triad Hunter that is gathered through our Eureka Hunter Gas Gathering System. Triad Hunter commenced gas delivery to the Mobley Processing Plant through the Eureka Hunter Gas Gathering System in December 2012.
The following table contains certain information regarding our completed Marcellus Shale horizontal wells as of May 1, 2013.
During 2013, we plan to drill a total of 27 gross (18 net) wells in the Marcellus Shale.
Utica Shale Properties
Our Utica Shale acreage is located principally in Tyler, Pleasants and Wood Counties, West Virginia and in Washington, Monroe, Morgan and Noble Counties, Ohio. As of May 1, 2013, we owned mineral rights to a total of approximately 79,000 net acres that are presently prospective for the Utica Shale. Approximately 47,000 of the net acres are located in Ohio (a portion of which acreage overlaps our Marcellus Shale acreage), and approximately 32,000 of the net acres are located in West Virginia (all of which overlaps our Marcellus Shale acreage).
General. The Utica Shale is located in the Appalachian Basin of the United States and Canada. The Utica Shale is a rock unit comprised of organic-rich calcareous black shale that was deposited about 440 million to 460 million years ago during the Late Ordovician period. It overlies the Trenton Limestone and is located a few thousand feet below the Marcellus Shale, which is considered to be the largest exploration play in the eastern United States.
The Utica Shale may be comparable or thicker and more geographically extensive than the Marcellus Shale, although reported drilling results in the play are still not sufficient to conclusively establish the geographical extent of the play. The potential source rock portion of the Utica Shale underlies portions of Kentucky, Maryland, New York, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Tennessee, West Virginia and Virginia in the United States and is also present beneath parts of Lake Ontario, Lake Erie and Ontario, Canada. Throughout the potential source rock area, the Utica Shale ranges in thickness from less than 100 feet to over 500 feet. Over the rock unit as a whole, there is a general thinning from east to west.
The Utica Shale is deeper than the Marcellus Shale. In some parts of Pennsylvania, the Utica Shale is estimated to be over two miles below sea level and up to 7,000 feet below the Marcellus Shale. However, the depth of the Utica Shale decreases to the west into Ohio and to the northwest under the Great Lakes and into Canada to less than approximately 2,000 feet below sea level. Most of our acreage is located at depths of 7,600 to 10,500 feet and approximately 3,000 feet below the Marcellus Shale.
The Utica Shale is estimated to have higher carbonate and lower clay mineral content than the Marcellus Shale. The difference in mineralogy generally produces a different response to hydraulic fracturing treatments. Operation drillers have redesigned and improved the fracturing methods in the Utica Shale, to generally match or improve upon, to the extent deemed beneficial, those methods used in other natural gas shales with comparable carbonate content. For example, drillers have discovered methods to make the brittle carbonate zones in the Utica Shale fracture at generally higher rates than gas shale rock units in the Eagle Ford Shale in Texas. Drillers are researching methods to make other similar fracturing improvements in the Utica Shale.
The Point Pleasant formation in the Utica Shale is generally 100 to 150 feet thick and is our primary targeted reservoir for horizontal drilling in the play. This formation is primarily limestone with inter-bedded shales deposited within an organic rich marine environment. The Point Pleasant formation has the composition for hydrocarbon generation and brittleness. Combined with the organic content, or TOC, a 9% to14% porosity, thermal maturity and a significant geo-pressured condition, the Point Pleasant formation has the characteristics for an ideal unconventional reservoir. The Point Pleasant formation appears to have a significant amount of hydrocarbons in place, and the techniques for successful drilling in the formation appear similar to those of the Eagle Ford Shale in Texas; longer laterals, more stages of fracture stimulation and more effective treatment of the horizontal lateral appear to be key to the optimization of recoverable reserves and return on investment.
Based on estimates published by the Ohio Department of Natural Resources, or ODNR, in 2012, the Utica Shale had a recoverable potential of 1.3 billion to 5.5 billion barrels of oil and 3.8 to 15.7 trillion cubic feet of natural gas in Ohio alone. During 2012, a number of oil and gas companies made significant investments in acquiring Utica Shale acreage in eastern Ohio. Recently, the ODNR reported that in the Utica Shale in Ohio there were 89 producing horizontal wells, 202 horizontal wells that had been drilled but were not yet completed or connected to a pipeline, 14 horizontal wells that were being drilled and 616 horizontal wells that had been permitted.
During 2012, most of the drilling activity in the Utica Shale occurred in eastern Ohio, where our acreage is located. Based on the initial drilling results, the Utica Shale is prospective for oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids. Specifically, early wells drilled in the Utica Shale indicate greater potential for production of significant amounts of natural gas liquids, which generally have a higher value, on an energy-equivalent basis, than natural gas.
Our Utica Drilling Activity. During 2013, Triad Hunter plans to drill a minimum of four wells in Washington County and Monroe County, Ohio to test the Utica Shale formation. In connection with this planned test development, Triad Hunter is currently drilling its first Utica Shale well, from the Farley Pad, which is located in northern Washington County, Ohio. The Farley Pad has been designed to drill up to four horizontal wells. Triad Hunter spud its first Utica Shale test well from the Farley Pad in April 2013, and expects to commence a 25 plus stage fracture stimulation of the well in July 2013. After Triad Hunter finishes fracing the well, it plans to shut in the well for approximately 30 to 40 days and then begin flow testing the well in August or September 2013.
The Company also commenced construction of a 16-well pad in Monroe County, Ohio in June 2013, known as the Stadler Pad. The Stadler Pad is being constructed under our joint venture agreement with Eclipse Resources. The Company expects that it will initially drill three Utica wells and eight Marcellus wells from the Stadler Pad; however, we retain flexibility to shift the mix of Marcellus and Utica wells based on drilling results. The Company will have test results from the initial wells in 2013, but doesn't expect production from these wells to begin flowing through the Eureka Hunter Gas Gathering System until all wells from the pad have been drilled and completed, which is anticipated to be in the fall of 2014.
In anticipation of favorable results from these wells, we have commissioned engineering drawings and drilling unit preparations for two additional planned Utica Shale drilling pads, the Crooked Tree Pad to be located in Noble County, Ohio, designed for up to 10 horizontal wells, and the Wood Chopper Pad to be located in Washington County, Ohio, designed for up to four horizontal wells.
We currently anticipate that our natural gas production from our Utica Shale wells will be gathered by our Eureka Hunter Gas Gathering System. Gas processing infrastructure is developing at a rapid pace in this region. Therefore, we expect that gas processing availability in close proximity to the wells will be available for our production. We will be required to install typical production equipment at our Utica Shale well locations, such as storage tank batteries, oil/gas/water separation equipment, vapor recovery line heaters and compressors.
Subject to well results of the Company and third-party operators in the area, Triad Hunter plans to significantly expand its drilling program in the Utica Shale in 2014.
Southern Appalachian Basin Properties
As of May 1, 2013, our southern Appalachian Basin properties included approximately 304,900 net acres, primarily in Kentucky. Our primary production from the southern Appalachian Basin properties comes from the Devonian Shale formation and the Mississippian Weir sandstone.
The Devonian Shale formation is considered an unconventional target due to its low permeability; however, in recent years, the application of horizontal well drilling and completion technology has led to improved economics. The Devonian Shale generally produces little or no water, contributing to a low cost of operation. As of May 1, 2013, we had drilled 77 Devonian Shale horizontal wells, primarily in the Huron and Cleveland sections of the formation. Due to low commodity prices in 2012, we did not drill any Huron or Cleveland horizontal wells in 2012; however, we negotiated a postponement of certain drilling obligations covering approximately 223,500 net acres in these formations until the end of the first quarter of 2014.
The Mississippian Weir sandstone covers approximately 32,300 net acres of our southern Appalachian Basin properties. In 2012, we drilled four Weir horizontal wells with increasingly encouraging results as we extended our lateral lengths and continued to optimize our completion techniques. The Weir produces oil in addition to high btu natural gas. As of May 1, 2013, we were drilling one Weir well (one net).
Our Appalachian Basin properties also include (i) a non-operating interest in a coal bed methane project in the Arkoma Basin in Arkansas and Oklahoma, (ii) certain non-operated projects in West Virginia and Virginia and (iii) an operating interest in a New Albany Shale field in western Kentucky known as Haley’s Mill.
Williston Basin Properties
We acquired Nuloch Resources Inc., or NuLoch, in May 2011, establishing our initial presence in the Bakken/Three Forks Sanish formations in the Williston Basin in North Dakota and Saskatchewan, Canada. We expanded our presence in the Williston Basin through (i) our March 2012 acquisition of Eagle Operating, Inc.’s operating working interest ownership in certain oil and gas leases and wells in five counties in North Dakota, (ii) our May 2012 acquisition of Baytex Energy USA Ltd.’s non-operating working interest ownership in certain oil and gas leases and wells in Divide and Burke Counties, North Dakota and (iii) our December 2012 acquisition of Samson Resources Company’s operating and non-operating working interest ownership in certain oil and gas leases and wells in Divide County, North Dakota.
As of May 1, 2013, our Williston Basin properties included (a) approximately 178,000 net leasehold acres consisting of 124,600 net acres in the Bakken/Three Forks Sanish in North Dakota and 53,400 net acres in the Bakken/Three Forks Sanish in Saskatchewan, and (b) approximately 15,000 net leasehold acres comprising our North Dakota legacy properties described below.
As of May 1, 2013, we had drilled and completed approximately 252 gross (82.6 net) wells on our Bakken/Three Forks Sanish properties, including 210 gross (45.8 net) wells in the Bakken/Three Forks Sanish in North Dakota and 42 gross (36.8 net) wells in the Bakken/Three Forks Sanish in Saskatchewan. Of these wells, approximately 107 gross (21.3 net) wells in the Bakken/Three Forks Sanish in North Dakota, and approximately 24 gross (20.9 net) wells in the Bakken/Three Forks Sanish in Saskatchewan, were completed in 2012 and through May 1, 2013. As of May 1, 2013, we operated 47 of our Bakken/Three Forks Sanish wells, including five wells in the Bakken/Three Forks Sanish in North Dakota and 42 wells in the Bakken/Three Forks Sanish in Saskatchewan. As of May 1, 2013, we operated 181 gross (172 net) Madison formation wells on our North Dakota legacy properties.
As of December 31, 2012, proved reserves attributable to our Williston Basin properties were 23.7 mmboe on an SEC basis, of which 96% were oil and natural gas liquids and 41% were classified as proved developed producing, and 21.7 mmboe on a NYMEX basis. As of December 31, 2012, these proved reserves had a PV-10 value of $427.8 million (SEC basis) and $377.3 million (NYMEX basis).
Our capital expenditures budget for 2013 includes approximately $150 million for capital expenditures in the Williston Basin, including $128 million and $12 million in the Bakken/Three Forks Sanish in North Dakota and Saskatchewan, respectively, and of which a total of $10 million is budgeted for lease extensions. During 2013, we plan to drill a total of 65 gross (22.0 net) wells in the Bakken/Three Forks Sanish.
The Williston Basin is spread across North Dakota, Montana and parts of southern Canada with the U.S. portion of the basin encompassing approximately 143,000 square miles. The basin produces oil and natural gas from numerous producing horizons, including the Madison, Bakken, Three Forks Sanish and Red River formations. The Bakken formation is a Devonian age shale. The North Dakota Geological Survey and Oil and Gas Division estimates that the Bakken formation is capable of generating between 271 and 500 billion bbls of oil. The Bakken formation underlies portions of North Dakota and Montana and southern Canada and is generally found at vertical depths of 9,000 to 10,500 feet. Below the Lower Bakken Shale lies the Three Forks Sanish formations, which have also proven to contain highly productive reservoir rock. The Three Forks Sanish formations typically consist of interbedded dolomites and shale with local development of a discontinuous sandy member at the top, known as the Sanish sand. Economic crude oil development and production from the Bakken/Three Forks Sanish reservoirs are made possible through the combination of advanced horizontal drilling and fracture stimulation technology. Horizontal wells in these formations are typically drilled on 640 acre or 1,280 acre spacing with horizontal laterals extending 4,500 to 9,500 feet into the reservoir. Ultimately, a spacing unit may be developed with up to four horizontal wells in each formation. Fracture stimulation techniques generally utilize multi-stage mechanically diverted stimulations.
We refer to our properties in North Dakota as our Williston Hunter U.S. properties and our properties in Canada (which include our Bakken/Three Forks Sanish properties in Saskatchewan as well as certain properties we operate in Alberta) as our Williston Hunter Canada properties.
Williston Hunter U.S. Properties
Bakken/Three Forks Sanish Properties in North Dakota. As of May 1, 2013, our Williston Hunter U.S. properties included approximately 124,600 net acres in the Bakken/Three Forks/Sanish formations in the Williston Basin in North Dakota. As of May 1, 2013, our Bakken/Three Forks Sanish properties in North Dakota included approximately 210 gross (45.8 net) productive wells, and we were operating five of these gross wells. As of May 1, 2013, eight horizontal wells (3.2 net) were awaiting completion, five wells (1.6 net) were being drilled, five gross (0.9 net) were being completed, and five drilling rigs were operating on our Bakken/Three Forks Sanish properties in North Dakota.
Our Williston Hunter U.S. property acreage in the Bakken/Three Forks Sanish is located in Divide and Burke Counties, North Dakota. In 2012, we significantly expanded our Williston Hunter U.S. position in the Bakken/Three Forks Sanish through the acquisitions of the Acquired Baytex Assets in Divide and Burke Counties, North Dakota and the Acquired Samson Assets in Divide County, North Dakota. The acquisition of the Acquired Samson Assets established Bakken Hunter as an operator in the Bakken/Three Forks Sanish in Divide County, North Dakota. As of May 1, 2013, (i) our five most recently completed third-party-operated one-mile wells in Divide County, North Dakota generated an average IP-24 hour rate of approximately 594 boepd, and (ii) our five most recently completed third-party-operated two-mile wells in Divide County North, Dakota generated an average IP-24 hour rate of approximately 732 boepd.
North Dakota Legacy Properties. The Company also holds operating working interests in approximately 15,000 net acres of waterflood properties located in Burke, Renville, Ward, Bottineau and McHenry Counties, North Dakota. We initially acquired non-operating working interests in these properties from Eagle Operating, Inc., or Eagle Operating, in 2006. We acquired Eagle Operating’s remaining working and operating interests in the properties in March 2012, effective as of April 1, 2011, giving us up to an approximate 95% operating working interest in the properties. As of May 1, 2013, we were operating approximately 181 wells on these properties. These properties produce primarily from the Madison formation in the Williston Basin.
Oneok Gas Gathering Arrangement. In March 2012, we entered into a gas purchase agreement with Oneok, pursuant to which Oneok is currently constructing a natural gas gathering system and related facilities in North Dakota for the gathering and processing by Oneok of associated natural gas production, including the associated natural gas production from certain of our oil properties in Divide County, North Dakota dedicated by us to Oneok for this purpose. This arrangement was expanded to include certain of our Acquired Baytex Assets and Acquired Samson Assets when we acquired those assets in May and December 2012, respectively. Pursuant to this arrangement, Oneok will purchase our natural gas and natural gas liquids production from the dedicated properties, and we will be responsible for certain well tie-in and electrical power costs associated with the Oneok system and certain minimum yearly gas sale volume requirements. The sale of our natural gas and natural gas liquids production to Oneok pursuant to this arrangement, once the Oneok facilities are complete, will allow us to realize revenues from our natural gas stream in the Divide County area. Oneok is currently building out its compressor station, 12-inch high-pressure discharge line and northern-most east/west gathering pipeline in Divide County. We expect the Oneok system to be operational with respect to certain of our Divide County properties in mid-2013. We also anticipate delivering certain of our Tableland Field associated natural gas production into the Oneok system.
A large part of the associated natural gas produced from oil properties in certain regions of North Dakota is currently being flared or otherwise not marketed because of the lack of available gas gathering and processing infrastructure in these regions. Current and anticipated future North Dakota state regulations on gas flaring restrict and may further restrict, and may possibly prohibit, oil production in North Dakota as to which associated natural gas is flared rather than gathered. We expect that our arrangement with Oneok will permit us to continue to produce crude oil from our properties in Divide County, North Dakota in compliance with these existing or future state regulations.
Williston Hunter Canada Properties
As of May 1, 2013, our Williston Hunter Canada properties included approximately 53,400 net acres in the Tableland Field in the Williston Basin in Saskatchewan and approximately 36,000 net acres in Alberta. As of May 1, 2013, the Williston Hunter Canada properties included approximately 88 gross (79.3 net) productive wells, 98% of which we operate. At May 1, 2013, one horizontal well (0.4 net) was drilling on our Williston Hunter Canada properties.
Saskatchewan. The Tableland Field properties target sweet light oil from the Bakken/Three Forks Sanish formations. At May 1, 2013, Williston Hunter Canada had approximately 53,400 net acres of largely contiguous land that is prospective for Bakken/Three Forks Sanish oil in the Tableland Field. As of May 1, 2013, Williston Hunter Canada had 42 producing oil wells (36.8 net), and one well (0.4 net) drilling in the Tableland Field. As of May 1, 2013, our eight most recently completed wells in the Tableland Field generated approximately 358 boepd average IP-24 hour rates.
Alberta. Our Alberta properties target shallow natural gas and sweet light oil from the Enchant Second White Specks formation and the Kiskatinaw formation. Our Alberta properties include the Enchant Second White Specks and Balsam properties. At May 1, 2013, Williston Hunter Canada had approximately 36,000 net acres in Alberta. At May 1, 2013, Williston Hunter Canada had four producing oil wells (2.8 net) and no wells drilling in Alberta.
The following table contains certain information regarding our Bakken/Three Forks Sanish horizontal wells completed during the period from January 1, 2013 to May 19, 2013.
Eagle Ford Shale Properties
We made our initial entry into the oil window of the Eagle Ford Shale in Gonzales, Lavaca, Fayette, Lee, and Atascosa Counties in south Texas in October 2009 with our acquisition of Sharon Resources, Inc., renamed Eagle Ford Hunter, Inc., or Eagle Ford Hunter. We subsequently expanded our position in this prolific area through additional leasing activities and two joint ventures.
On April 24, 2013, we sold our core properties in the oil window of the Eagle Ford Shale in Gonzales and Lavaca Counties, Texas to an affiliate of Penn Virginia Corporation, or Penn Virginia, for a total purchase price of $422.1 million, paid to us in the form of $379.8 million in cash (after initial purchase price adjustments) and $42.3 million in Penn Virginia common stock (valued, for purposes of the purchase price calculation, at a price of $4.23 per share). We refer to this sale as our sale of the Eagle Ford Properties or our Eagle Ford Properties Sale.
The properties sold to the Penn Virginia affiliate included approximately 19,000 net Eagle Ford Shale leasehold acres, and our operating and non-operating leasehold working interests in certain existing wells, in Gonzales and Lavaca Counties, Texas. The transaction was structured as a sale by us to the Penn Virginia affiliate of all of the outstanding capital stock of Eagle Ford Hunter. The effective date of the transaction was January 1, 2013.
Prior to the closing of the transaction, Eagle Ford Hunter transferred to Shale Hunter, LLC, one of our wholly-owned subsidiaries, all of the assets and properties held by Eagle Ford Hunter other than the properties in Gonzales and Lavaca Counties purchased by the Penn Virginia affiliate. As a result, as of May 1, 2013, we continued to own (a) approximately 7,000 net Eagle Ford Shale mineral acres located primarily in Fayette, Lee and Atascosa Counties, and (b) leasehold working interests in certain existing producing, development and test wells located on these properties. As of May 1, 2013, we were operating and producing from three gross (2.4 net) horizontal wells on Eagle Ford Shale properties.
As of December 31, 2012, after giving effect to the Eagle Ford Properties Sale, proved reserves attributable to our Eagle Ford Shale properties were 0.5 mmboe on an SEC basis, of which 89% were oil and natural gas liquids and 47% were classified as proved developed producing, and 0.4 mmboe on a NYMEX basis. As of December 31, 2012, these proved reserves had a PV-10 value of $9.6 million (SEC basis) and $8.9 million (NYMEX basis).
The Company has an average working interest of 96.75% and an average net revenue interest of 72.56% in the Alright area of the Eagleville Field in southwestern Atascosa County, near Charlotte, Texas. This area is central to an active Eagle Ford Shale area called the four corners, which includes acreage in Atascosa, Frio, McMullen and LaSalle Counties, Texas.
Approximately 5,100 of our net leasehold acres in Atascosa County, Texas are prospective for the development of both the Eagle Ford Shale and the Pearsall Shale. The Pearsall Shale is located approximately 2,500 feet beneath the Eagle Ford Shale at depths ranging from 7,000 to 12,000 feet and is approximately 300 to 400 feet in thickness. The Pearsall Shale is different in composition to the Eagle Ford Shale, composed of more silica with interbedded organic shale and limestone. We believe that our Pearsall Shale acreage is located within the wet gas to rich condensate window of the play, which is bounded by the Charlotte fault trend eight miles to the north and the Karnes fault trend to the south. Our internal technical analysis, core samples and recent third-party offset well results indicate potential for both Eagle Ford Shale and Pearsall Shale productivity on this acreage. In the fourth quarter of 2012, we drilled and completed a horizontal well on this acreage to the Eagle Ford Shale, and in connection therewith performed an evaluation of the Pearsall Shale, including log runs and core analysis. In the first quarter of 2013, we participated (through a 31% non-operating working interest) in the drilling and completion of our first Pearsall Shale well. The well is operated by Marathon Oil Corporation, and we anticipate that the well will be on production around mid-2013.
Other Properties
Other Texas and Louisiana Assets
The Company owns certain other scattered miscellaneous oil and gas properties in Texas (outside of the Eagle Ford Shale area) and Louisiana. We have not allocated any significant capital to these assets for 2013.
Midstream Operations
Eureka Hunter Gas Gathering System
Eureka Pipeline acquired assets from Triad Energy Corporation in 2010 that included gas gathering systems and pipeline rights-of-way in West Virginia and Ohio. We have developed and continue to develop these assets into our Eureka Hunter Gas Gathering System, which helps support our existing and anticipated future Marcellus Shale and Utica Shale acreage positions, as well as the expanding gathering needs of third-party producers. As of May 1, 2013, our Eureka Hunter Gas Gathering System included a total of approximately 79 miles of completed pipeline located in northwestern West Virginia and southeastern Ohio. The Eureka Hunter Gas Gathering System and associated rights-of-way run through Pleasants, Tyler, Ritchie, Wetzel, Marion, Harrison, Doddridge, Lewis and Monongalia Counties in West Virginia and Washington County, Ohio, in certain liquids rich portions of the Marcellus Shale and Utica Shale. The first completed six-mile section of the Eureka Hunter Gas Gathering System was turned to sales in December 2010.
The Eureka Hunter Gas Gathering System is being constructed primarily out of new 20-inch and 16-inch high-pressure steel pipe with an estimated 350 mmcfpd of initial throughput capacity. As of May 1, 2013, the Eureka Hunter Gas Gathering System consisted of 79 miles of 20-inch and 16-inch mainline, of which 45 miles is currently active. As of June 10, 2013, we were flowing approximately 100,000 mcf of natural gas per day through the Eureka Hunter Gas Gathering System.
In 2012, we completed the construction of our Pursley lateral section of the pipeline up to the Ohio River, which is a 20-inch lateral section of pipeline extending approximately 19 miles northerly through Tyler and Wetzel Counties, West Virginia, extending to the Ohio River, near Monroe County, Ohio. In January 2013, we successfully bored under the Ohio River to continue the construction of the lateral into Ohio.
In the fourth quarter of 2012, we completed the construction of our Lewis-Wetzel lateral, which is a 20-inch lateral section of pipeline extending approximately seven and one quarter miles originating near the eastern end of the mainline extending northerly through the Wetzel Wildlife Refuge in Wetzel County, West Virginia and terminating at our new Eureka Carbide Facility, near the community of Carbide in Wetzel County.
We completed the initial construction of the Eureka Carbide Facility in 2012. This facility includes (a) an 8-inch low-pressure liquids gathering section of pipeline extending approximately two and one third miles for gathering wellhead produced condensate and liquids from wells located in the Lewis Wetzel Wildlife area, (b) a 10-inch low-pressure gas gathering section of pipeline extending approximately two and one third miles for gathering gas production from wells located in the Lewis Wetzel Wildlife area and (c) equipment utilized to handle and stabilize liquids extracted from the pipeline during routine pigging operations as well as liquids gathered by the Lewis Wetzel condensate gathering system. The Eureka Carbide Facility facilitates our gathering of production from producing wells of Triad Hunter and Stone Energy in Wetzel County, West Virginia.
In the fourth quarter of 2012, we completed the construction of our Mobley lateral section of the pipeline, which is a 20-inch lateral section extending approximately eight miles originating at the Eureka Carbide Facility extending easterly and terminating at the inlet of the Mobley Processing Plant in Wetzel County, West Virginia, in order to provide access for gas processing at the plant.
In 2012, we began construction of our Doddridge lateral section of the pipeline, which is a 16-inch lateral section of pipeline extending southerly from the mainline into northwest Doddridge County, West Virginia. As of May 1, 2013, we had completed approximately 3.5 miles of the Doddridge lateral.
In 2012, we began construction of our Ritchie lateral section of the pipeline, which is a 16-inch lateral section of pipeline extending southerly from the western end of the mainline into northwest Richie County, West Virginia. As of May 1, 2013, we had completed approximately 15 miles of the Ritchie lateral.
We have budgeted approximately $100 million for Eureka Hunter Gas Gathering System projects in 2013. We anticipate these funds will be utilized primarily for pipeline construction projects in Ohio, including the construction of wet gas, dry gas and condensate gathering lines that will extend approximately 11 miles westerly from the Ohio River near Sardis, Ohio, and a separate lateral section that will extend approximately eight miles northerly and will run parallel to the Ohio River terminating near Triad Hunter’s Ormet area of operations.
Mobley Processing Plant
In late 2011, Triad Hunter entered into certain midstream services agreements with MarkWest, pursuant to which MarkWest agreed to provide long-term gas processing and related services for natural gas produced by both Triad Hunter and other producers and
gathered through our Eureka Hunter Gas Gathering System. In December 2012, following completion of MarkWest’s 200 mmcfe per day Mobley Processing Plant in Wetzel County, West Virginia, Eureka Pipeline began flowing natural gas production through the Eureka Hunter Gas Gathering System for processing at the Mobley Processing Plant. Eureka Pipeline has supplied and expects to continue to supply the Mobley Processing Plant with both Company and third-party natural gas produced primarily from the Marcellus Shale formation. MarkWest also provides natural gas liquids handling and fractionation services for Mobley Processing Plant products at its nearby fractionation facility. These agreements with MarkWest allow Eureka Pipeline to offer third-party producers in the Marcellus Shale not only gas gathering services through our Eureka Hunter Gas Gathering System, but also access to natural gas processing at the Mobley Processing Plant. Also, our ability to process our natural gas at the Mobley Processing Plant has provided and is expected to continue to provide us with a significant uplift in the realized price for our liquids-rich gas stream. Effective as of April 2013, we have committed to approximately 95% of the processing capacity of the 200 mmcfe per day Mobley Processing Plant.
TransTex Hunter Treating and Processing
TransTex Hunter is a full service provider for the natural gas treating and processing needs of producers. TransTex Hunter currently operates in Texas, Louisiana, Oklahoma and West Virginia and anticipates possible future operations in Arkansas, Mississippi and Ohio. As of May 1, 2013, TransTex Hunter owned over 35 natural gas treating and processing plants in varying sizes and capacities designed to remove carbon dioxide, or CO2, and hydrogen sulfide, or H2S, from the natural gas stream. TransTex Hunter’s services also include the installation and maintenance of Joule-Thomson, or JT, plants, refrigeration plants and cryogenic plants designed to remove the heavier hydrocarbons from the natural gas stream for dew point control or for making the hydrocarbons marketable. TransTex Hunter’s customers include small, independent producers, as well as large, publicly-traded companies. Currently, TransTex Hunter is building small- and medium-size gas processing equipment to allow it to meet anticipated producer demand for gas processing units that can be utilized by producers until larger cryogenic processing plants are available, which typically require much longer construction lead times.
Other Gas Gathering and Processing
Gas Gathering. Natural gas production from our Magnum Hunter Production, Inc., or Magnum Hunter Production, properties is delivered through gas gathering and midstream facilities owned by Seminole Energy Services, L.L.C. under gas gathering and sales agreements with Seminole Energy and affiliates, referred to as the Seminole Energy gathering agreements. The Seminole Energy gathering agreements provide Magnum Hunter Production with long-term operating rights and firm capacity rights for daily delivery of up to 30,000 mcf of controlled gas through Seminole Energy’s Appalachian gathering system, which interconnects with Spectra Energy Partners’ East Tennessee Interstate pipeline network at Rogersville, Tennessee. This ensures continued deliverability from our connected fields, representing over 90% of our Magnum Hunter Production natural gas production, to major East Coast natural gas markets.
The Seminole Energy gathering agreements were restructured in connection with our acquisition of NGAS in April 2011. The restructured agreements substantially reduced the gas gathering fees payable by Magnum Hunter Production for all throughput volumes from future wells in the reserve areas dedicated to Seminole Energy under these agreements.
Gas Processing. Eureka Pipeline owns a 50% interest in a liquids extraction plant in Rogersville, Tennessee, used for the processing of natural gas delivered through Seminole Energy’s Appalachian gathering system. The Rogersville processing plant extracts natural gas liquids at levels enabling us to flow dry pipeline quality natural gas into the interstate network. The Rogersville processing plant is currently configured for throughput at rates up to 25,000 mcf per day, which can be increased to accommodate production growth and relief of constrained regional supplies.
Magnum Hunter Production owns a 50% interest in a nitrogen rejection facility in western Kentucky, used for the processing of Magnum Hunter Production’s Illinois Basin production. The nitrogen rejection facility is part of the infrastructure for Magnum Hunter Production’s New Albany Shale project in western Kentucky.
Both the Rogersville processing plant and the western Kentucky nitrogen rejection facility are co-owned and are operated by Seminole Energy. Gas processing fees are volume dependent and are shared with Seminole Energy.
Oil Field Services
Our wholly-owned subsidiary, Alpha Hunter Drilling, LLC, or Alpha Hunter Drilling, owns and operates portable, trailer-mounted drilling rigs capable of drilling to depths of between 6,000 to 19,000 feet, which are used primarily for vertical section (top-hole) air drilling in the Appalachian Basin. The drilling rigs are used for the Company’s Appalachian Basin operations and to provide drilling services to third parties. At May 1, 2013, Alpha Hunter Drilling’s operating fleet consisted of four Schramm T200XD drilling rigs and one new Schramm T500XD drilling rig. We took delivery of the Schramm T500XD rig in May 2013. This new rig is a portable, robotic drilling rig capable of drilling to depths (both vertically and horizontally) of up to 19,000 feet. This new rig can be used to drill the horizontal sections of wells.
These drilling rigs primarily drill the top-holes of the Company's and third parties' Marcellus Shale wells in preparation for larger drilling rigs, which drill the horizontal sections of the wells. This style of drilling has proved to reduce overall drilling costs, by minimizing mobilization and demobilization charges and significantly decreasing the overall time to drill horizontal wells on each pad site.
At June 1, 2013, three of the Schramm T200XD drilling rigs were under contract to a large producer in the Appalachian Basin area for the top-hole drilling of multiple wells, one Schramm T200XD drilling rig was in transition from demobilization in south Texas (and scheduled to go out for work in late June 2013) and the Schramm T500XD drilling rig was under contract to the Company for drilling top-holes for its Marcellus Shale and Utica Shale drilling program. Currently, when a Company-used drilling rig is idle, Alpha Hunter Drilling seeks to lease the rig on the spot market.
Marketing and Pricing
General
We derive revenue principally from the sale of oil and natural gas. As a result, our revenues are determined, to a large degree, by prevailing prices for crude oil and natural gas. We sell our oil and natural gas on the open market at prevailing market prices. The market price for oil and natural gas is dictated by supply and demand, and we cannot accurately predict or control the price we may receive for our oil and natural gas.
The Company generally markets its U.S. and Canadian oil and natural gas production under “month-to-month” or “spot” contracts.
We also derive revenue from our midstream operations.
Marketing of U.S. Production
We market crude oil produced from our Company-operated properties in North Dakota through a marketing and distribution firm under “month-to-month” or “spot” contracts, pursuant to which we receive spot market prices for the production. The crude oil is produced to tanks and then trucked to market. The crude oil produced from our third-party operated properties in North Dakota is sold by the operator along with the other well production. The production is typically transported to market by rail.
We generally sell our natural gas production on “month-to-month” or “spot” pricing contracts to a variety of buyers, including large marketing companies, local distribution companies and industrial customers. We diversify our markets to help reduce buyer credit risk and to ensure steady daily deliveries of our natural gas production. As natural gas production increases in our core operating areas, especially in the Appalachian Basin region, we believe that we and other producers in these areas will find it increasingly important to find markets that have the ability to move natural gas volumes through an increasingly capacity-constrained infrastructure.
Our natural gas liquids (other than ethane, when and if extracted) extracted and fractionated by MarkWest through its Mobley Processing Plant and related fractionation facility are or will be marketed by MarkWest at prevailing market prices. We will be responsible for the marketing of such ethane, if and when extracted, depending on when the Mobley Processing Plant goes into ethane recovery mode. We expect that several markets will be available at that time for ethane sales.
Marketing of Canadian Production
Our oil production in Alberta and Saskatchewan is sold through an international crude oil marketing firm. Our oil production is mostly 38 - 42 degrees API gravity and is considered “sweet” since it contains only a small percentage of sulfur. Typically, clean oil is hauled from our facilities to a truck terminal where it enters the North American pipeline system and is sold to purchasers at monthly spot prices. The majority of our oil production is sold at a bench mark price at Cromer, Canada and adjusted for equalization and all applicable transportation charges to Cromer. We have begun to ship some of our oil production from our Saskatchewan properties by rail, and we receive a price for this production similar to the benchmark price at Cromer after adjustments.
Our Canadian natural gas production is sold through a marketing consulting firm. We currently sell gas from our Alberta properties to a buyer at “spot” natural gas prices less transportation, fuel and measurement variance costs.
We sell a small amount of natural gas liquids extracted from some of our Alberta natural gas production to the processing plant operator at current spot prices.
Marketing of Midstream Services
Eureka Pipeline markets its gathering services to area producers primarily through “one on one” industry contacts generated through general industry knowledge and new contacts made through participation in industry conferences, as well as by tracking drilling permits. The Eureka Pipeline business development team monitors exploration efforts within reach of the Eureka Hunter Gas Gathering System and is in regular contact with companies that may benefit from the gathering services offered by Eureka Pipeline. Eureka Pipeline plans to continue these same marketing efforts as it expands the Eureka Hunter Gas Gathering System into Ohio.
TransTex Hunter markets its plants and services in very much the same manner as that of Eureka Pipeline. Much of TransTex Hunter's business growth comes from existing customers seeking additional plants and services. New business is generated by the TransTex
Hunter marketing team by regularly visiting with producers that have new or expanded drilling and production operations in those areas served by TransTex Hunter, by tracking drilling permits and through other producer referrals. TransTex Hunter also expands its presence by participating in industry conferences and trade shows and by helping to sponsor industry events that benefit charities and local community needs in its areas of operations.
Pricing
Our revenues, cash flows, profitability and future rate of growth depend substantially upon prevailing prices for oil and natural gas. Prices also affect the amount of cash flow available for capital expenditures and our ability to borrow money or raise additional capital. Lower prices may also adversely affect the value of our reserves and make it uneconomic for us to commence or continue drilling for crude oil and natural gas. Historically, the prices received for oil and natural gas have fluctuated widely. Among the factors that can cause these fluctuations are:
•
uncertainty in the global economy;
•
changes in global supply and demand for oil and natural gas;
•
the condition of the United States, Canadian and global economies;
•
the actions of certain foreign countries;
•
the price and quantity of imports of foreign oil and liquid natural gas;
•
political conditions, including embargoes, war or civil unrest in or affecting oil producing activities of certain countries;
•
the level of United States and global oil and natural gas exploration and production activity;
•
the level of United States and global oil and natural gas inventories;
•
production or pricing decisions made by the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, or OPEC;
•
weather conditions;
•
technological advances affecting energy consumption or production; and
•
the price and availability of alternative fuels.
Derivatives
We use commodity derivatives instruments, which we refer to as derivative contracts or derivatives, to reduce our exposure to oil and natural gas price fluctuations and to help ensure that we have adequate cash flow to fund our debt service costs, preferred stock dividend payments and capital expenditures. From time to time, we may enter into futures contracts, collars and basis swap agreements, as well as fixed price physical delivery contracts; however, it is our preference to utilize derivatives strategies that provide downside commodity price protection without unduly limiting our revenue potential in an environment of rising commodity prices. We use derivatives primarily to manage price risks and returns on certain acquisitions and drilling programs. Our policy is to use derivatives to cover an appropriate portion of our production at prices we deem attractive.
Derivatives may expose us to risk of significant financial loss in certain situations, including circumstances where:
•
our production and/or sales of oil and natural gas are less than expected;
•
payments owed under a derivative contract come due prior to receipt of the covered month’s production revenue; or
•
the counterparty to the derivative contract defaults on its contract obligations.
In addition, derivative contracts we may enter into may limit the benefit we would receive from increases in the prices of oil and natural gas; if, for example, the increase in prices extends above the applicable ceiling under the derivative contract. Also, derivative contracts we may enter into may not adequately protect us from declines in the prices of oil and natural gas; if, for example, the decline in price does not extend below the applicable floor under the derivative contract.
Furthermore, should we choose not to engage in derivatives transactions in the future (to the extent we are not otherwise obligated to do so under our credit facilities), or we are unable to engage in such transactions due to a cross-default under a debt agreement, we may be adversely affected by volatility in oil and natural gas prices.
As of December 31, 2012, we had the following derivatives in place:
Magnum Hunter Production Drilling Partnerships
Prior to our acquisition of NGAS in April 2011, NGAS had, from 1992 through 2010, sponsored approximately 38 private drilling partnerships for accredited investors to participate in certain of its drilling initiatives. Generally, under these NGAS drilling partnerships, proceeds from the private placement of interests in each investment partnership, together with an NGAS capital contribution, were contributed to a separate joint venture or “program” that NGAS formed with that partnership to conduct the drilling operations.
In December 2011, our subsidiary, Magnum Hunter Production, Inc., or Magnum Hunter Production, completed its first sponsored drilling partnership, Energy Hunter Partners 2011-A, Ltd., raising approximately $12.9 million from accredited investors. In December 2012, Magnum Hunter Production completed its second sponsored drilling partnership, Energy Hunter Partners 2012-A Drilling & Production Fund, Ltd., raising approximately $20.3 million from accredited investors.
These two drilling partnerships were structured to allow the investors to participate with Magnum Hunter Production in certain Company drilling initiatives in certain operating regions of the Company, including unconventional resource plays. The drilling partnership participates in the designated project wells through a joint venture operating partnership, referred to as the program, with Magnum Hunter Production, which serves as the managing general partner of both the drilling partnership and the program. Proceeds from the private placement of interests in the drilling partnership, together with Magnum Hunter Production’s capital contributions, are contributed to the program to fund the program’s share of drilling and completion costs of the project wells. Generally, interests in the program are shared proportionately until distributions to the drilling partnership reach a certain percentage of its investment in the program (or in individual wells), after which Magnum Hunter Production will earn an additional reversionary interest in the program, the amount of which depends on the timing of such payout. The program participates in the drilling and completion of the project wells on a "cost plus" basis.
Magnum Hunter Production plans to sponsor an additional drilling and/or income partnership or partnerships in 2013 to participate in Company drilling initiatives. Our sponsored programs and any future sponsored programs are designed to enable us to accelerate the development of our properties without relinquishing control over drilling and operating decisions, while also enabling us to hold valuable acreage for future development.
Reserves
Our oil and natural gas properties are primarily located in (i) the Appalachian Basin in West Virginia, Ohio and Kentucky, with substantial acreage in the Marcellus Shale and Utica Shale areas in West Virginia and Ohio; and (ii) the Williston Basin in North Dakota and Canada. Cawley, Gillespie & Associates, Inc., independent petroleum consultants, which we refer to as CG&A, has
estimated our oil and natural gas reserves and the present value of future net revenues therefrom as of December 31, 2012. These estimates were determined based on prices and costs as of or for the twelve-month period ended December 31, 2012. Since January 1, 2012, we have not filed, nor were we required to file, any reports concerning our oil and gas reserves with any federal authority or agency, other than the SEC and Canadian regulatory authorities. There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of proved oil and gas reserves, and estimates of reserve quantities and values must be viewed as being subject to significant change as more data about the properties become available.
Proved Reserves
In December 2008, the SEC released its finalized rule for “Modernization of Oil and Gas Reporting.” The rule requires disclosure of oil and gas proved reserves by significant geographic area, using the arithmetic 12-month average beginning-of-the-month price for the year, as opposed to using year-end prices as was practiced in all previous years. The rule also allows for the use of reliable technologies to estimate proved oil and gas reserves, contingent on demonstrated reliability, in conclusions about reserve volumes. Under the rule, companies are required to report on the independence and qualifications of their reserve preparers or auditors, and file reports when a third party is relied upon to prepare reserve estimates or conduct a reserve audit.
The following table sets forth our estimated proved reserves as defined in Rule 4.10(a) of Regulation S-X and Item 1200 of Regulation S-K promulgated by the SEC, as of December 31, 2012.
The following table sets forth our estimated proved reserves, based on NYMEX futures strip pricing, as of December 31, 2012.
All of our reserves are located within the continental U.S. and Canada. Reserve estimates are inherently imprecise and remain subject to revisions based on production history, results of additional exploration and development, prices of oil and natural gas and other factors. Please read “Item 1A. Risk Factors-Our estimated proved reserves are based on many assumptions that may turn out to be inaccurate. Any significant inaccuracies in these reserve estimates or underlying assumptions may materially affect the quantities and present value of our reserves”. You should also read the notes following the table below and our consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2012 in conjunction with the following reserve estimates.
The following table sets forth our estimated proved reserves at the end of each of the past three years:
_______________
(1)
The estimates of reserves in the table above conform to the guidelines of the SEC. Estimated recoverable proved reserves have been determined without regard to any economic impact that may result from our financial derivative activities. These calculations were prepared using standard geological and engineering methods generally accepted by the petroleum industry. The reserve information shown is estimated. The certainty of any reserve estimate is a function of the quality of available geological, geophysical, engineering and economic data, and the precision of the engineering and geological interpretation and judgment. The estimates of reserves, future cash flows and present value are based on various assumptions, and are inherently imprecise. Although we believe these estimates are reasonable, actual future production, cash flows, taxes, development expenditures, operating expenses and quantities of recoverable oil and natural gas reserves may vary substantially from these estimates.
(2)
We converted natural gas to oil equivalent at a ratio of six mcf to one boe.
(3)
Represents the present value, discounted at 10% per annum, or PV-10, of estimated future cash flows before income tax of our estimated proved reserves. The estimated future cash flows set forth above were determined by using reserve quantities of proved reserves and the periods in which they are expected to be developed and produced based on prevailing economic conditions. With respect to the 2012 PV-10 value in the table above, the estimated future production is priced based on the 12-month un-weighted arithmetic average of the first-day-of-the-month price for the period January through December 2012, using $94.71 per bbl and $2.75 per mmbtu and adjusted by lease for transportation fees and regional price differentials. Management believes that the presentation of the non-GAAP financial measure of PV-10 provides useful information to investors because it is widely used by professional analysts and sophisticated investors in evaluating oil and natural gas companies. For more information regarding the use of PV-10, see “Non-GAAP Measures; Reconciliations” below.
As of December 31, 2012, our proved undeveloped reserves, or PUDs, on an SEC basis totaled 23.3 mmboe of crude oil and ngls and 37.1 bcf of natural gas for a total of 29.5 mmboe. Changes in PUDs that occurred during the year were due to increased drilling activity and acquisitions in our Eagle Ford Shale, Marcellus Shale, Utica Shale and Bakken/Three Forks Sanish areas.
The following table summarizes the changes in our proved reserves for the year ended December 31, 2012:
SEC Rules Regarding Reserves Reporting
In December 2008, the SEC adopted revisions to its rules designed to modernize oil and gas company reserves reporting requirements. The most significant amendments to the requirements included the following:
•
Commodity Prices: Economic producibility of reserves and discounted cash flows are now based on a 12-month average commodity price unless contractual arrangements designate the price to be used.
•
Disclosure of Unproved Reserves: Probable and possible reserves may be disclosed separately on a voluntary basis.
•
Proved Undeveloped Reserve Guidelines: Reserves may be classified as proved undeveloped if there is a high degree of confidence that the quantities will be recovered and they are scheduled to be drilled within the next five years, unless the specific circumstances justify a longer time.
•
Reserves Estimation Using New Technologies: Reserves may be estimated through the use of reliable technology in addition to flow tests and production history.
•
Reserves Personnel and Estimation Process: Additional disclosure is required regarding the qualifications of the chief technical person who oversees the reserves estimation process. We are also required to provide a general discussion of our internal controls used to assure the objectivity of the reserves estimate.
•
Non-Traditional Resources: The definition of oil and gas producing activities has expanded and focuses on the marketable product rather than the method of extraction.
Reserve Estimation
CG&A evaluated our oil and gas reserves on a consolidated basis as of December 31, 2012. The technical persons responsible for preparing our proved reserves estimates meet the requirements with regard to qualifications, independence, objectivity and confidentiality set forth in the Standards Pertaining to the Estimating and Auditing of Oil and Gas Reserves Information promulgated by the Society of Petroleum Engineers. CG&A does not own an interest in any of our properties and is not employed by us on a contingent basis.
We maintain an internal staff of petroleum engineers and geoscience professionals who work closely with CG&A to ensure the integrity, accuracy and timeliness of the data used to calculate our proved oil and gas reserves. Our internal technical team members meet with CG&A periodically throughout the year to discuss the assumptions and methods used in the proved reserve estimation process. We provide historical information to CG&A for our properties such as ownership interest; oil and gas production; well test data; commodity prices; and operating and development costs. The preparation of our proved reserve estimates is completed in accordance with our internal control procedures, which include the verification of input data used by CG&A, as well as extensive management review and approval. All of our reserve estimates are reviewed and approved by our vice president of reservoir engineering. Our vice president of reservoir engineering holds a B.S. in chemical engineering from Ohio State University with more than 30 years of experience, was a member of the University of Texas External Advisory Committee for Petroleum and Geosystems Engineering and has served in various officer and board of director capacities for the Society of Petroleum Engineers. Reserve estimates for each of our Appalachia, Williston Hunter and Eagle Ford divisions are also reviewed and approved by the president of that division.
The technologies used in the estimation of our proved reserves are commonly employed in the oil and gas industry and include seismic and micro-seismic operations, reservoir simulation modeling, analyzing well performance data and geological and geophysical mapping.
Acreage and Productive Wells Summary
The following table sets forth our gross and net acreage of developed and undeveloped oil and natural gas leases as of December 31, 2012 (and includes the Eagle Ford Shale properties we subsequently sold in April 2013).
_______________
(1)
Developed acreage is the number of acres allocated or assignable to producing wells or wells capable of production.
(2)
Undeveloped acreage is lease acreage on which wells have not been drilled or completed to a point that would permit the production of commercial quantities of oil and natural gas, regardless of whether such acreage includes proved reserves.
(3)
Approximately 40,110 gross acres and 34,649 net acres overlap in our Utica Shale and Marcellus Shale areas.
(4)
Other U.S. pertains to certain miscellaneous properties in Texas (outside of the Eagle Ford Shale area) and Louisiana, for which no capital expenditures have been budgeted in 2013. See “Item 2. Properties-Other Properties”.
(5)
Other Canada pertains to our Alberta properties.
The following table sets forth our gross and net acreage of developed and undeveloped oil and natural gas leases as of May 1, 2013, following our Eagle Ford Properties Sale in April 2013 and taking into account our drilling activities during 2013:
_______________
(1)
Developed acreage is the number of acres allocated or assignable to producing wells or wells capable of production.
(2)
Undeveloped acreage is lease acreage on which wells have not been drilled or completed to a point that would permit the production of commercial quantities of oil and natural gas, regardless of whether such acreage includes proved reserves.
(3)
Approximately 40,110 gross acres and 34,649 net acres overlap in our Utica Shale and Marcellus Shale areas.
(4)
Other U.S. pertains to certain miscellaneous properties in Texas (outside of the Eagle Ford Shale area) and Louisiana, for which no capital expenditures have been budgeted in 2013. See “Item 2. Properties-Other Properties”
(5)
Other Canada pertains to our Alberta properties.
Substantially all of the leases summarized in the preceding tables will expire at the end of their respective primary terms unless the existing lease is renewed or we have obtained production from the acreage subject to the lease before the end of the primary term; in which event, the lease will remain in effect until the cessation of production.
The following table sets forth the gross and net acres of undeveloped land subject to leases summarized in the preceding December 31, 2012 table that will expire during the periods indicated if not ultimately held by production by drilling efforts.
Productive wells consist of producing wells and wells capable of production, including shut-in wells and gas wells awaiting pipeline connection to commence deliveries and oil wells awaiting connection to production facilities.
The following table sets forth the number of productive oil and gas wells attributable to the Company's properties as of December 31, 2012:
_______________
(1)
Other U.S. pertains to certain miscellaneous properties in Texas (outside of the Eagle Ford Shale area) and Louisiana, for which no capital expenditures have been budgeted in 2013. See “Item 2. Properties-Other Properties”.
(2)
Other Canada pertains to our Alberta properties.
Drilling Results
The following table summarizes our drilling activity for the past three years. Gross wells reflect the sum of all wells in which we own an interest. Net wells reflect the sum of our working interests in gross wells. All of our drilling activities were conducted on a contract basis by independent drilling contractors, except for certain of our activities in the Eagle Ford Shale and Marcellus Shale where we also utilized the drilling equipment of our subsidiary, Alpha Hunter Drilling.
_______________
(1)
The success ratio is calculated as follows: (total wells drilled-non-productive wells-wells awaiting completion)/(total wells drilled-wells awaiting completion).
As of May 1, 2013, we were in the process of drilling or completing two gross (1.5 net) wells on our Appalachian Basin properties, 19 gross (16.1 net) wells on our Williston Basin properties and one gross (0.3 net) wells on our Eagle Ford Shale properties.
Oil and Gas Production, Prices and Costs
The following table shows the approximate net production attributable to our oil and gas interests, the average sales price and the average lease operating expense attributable to our total oil and gas production and for fields that contain 15% of our total proved reserves. Production and sales information relating to properties acquired is reflected in this table only since the closing date of the acquisition and may affect the comparability of the data between the periods presented.
_______________
(1) This field is part of our Marcellus Shale acreage. This field consisted of 4,695 gross (4,666 net) acres in Wetzel County, West Virginia with 25 gross (18 net) producing wells as of May 1, 2013.
(2)
This field is part of our Bakken/Three Forks Sanish formations acreage. This field consisted of 251,355 gross (112,412 net) acres in Divide County, North Dakota, with 191 gross (42.1 net) producing wells as of May 1, 2013.
(3)
This field is part of our Marcellus Shale acreage. This field consisted of 14,700 gross (10,500 net) acres in Tyler County, West Virginia, with 11 gross (10.8 net) producing wells as of May 1, 2013.
(4)
This field was part of our Eagle Ford Shale acreage, which was sold pursuant to our Eagle Ford Properties Sale in April 2013.
Title to Properties
We believe that we have satisfactory title to all of our producing properties in accordance with generally accepted industry standards. As is customary in the industry, in the case of undeveloped properties, often only minimal investigation of record title is made at the initial time of lease acquisition. A more comprehensive mineral title opinion review, a topographic evaluation and infrastructure investigations are made before the consummation of an acquisition of producing properties and before commencement of drilling operations on undeveloped properties. Individual properties may be subject to burdens that we believe do not materially interfere with the use or affect the value of the properties. Burdens on properties may include:
•
customary royalty interests;
•
liens incident to operating agreements and for current taxes;
•
obligations or duties under applicable laws;
•
development obligations under oil and gas leases;
•
net profit interests;
•
overriding royalty interests;
•
non-surface occupancy leases; and
•
lessor consents to placement of wells.
Non-GAAP Measures; Reconciliations
This annual report contains certain financial measures that are non-GAAP measures. We have provided reconciliations within this report of the non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures. These non-GAAP financial measures should be considered in addition to, but not as a substitute for, measures for financial performance prepared in accordance with GAAP that are presented in this report.
PV-10 is the present value of the estimated future cash flows from estimated total proved reserves after deducting estimated production and ad valorem taxes, future capital costs, abandonment costs, net of salvage value, and operating expenses, but before deducting any estimates of future income taxes. The estimated future cash flows are discounted at an annual rate of 10% to determine their “present value”. We believe PV-10 to be an important measure for evaluating the relative significance of our oil and gas properties and that the presentation of the non-GAAP financial measure of PV-10 provides useful information to investors because it is widely used by professional analysts and investors in evaluating oil and gas companies. Because there are many unique factors that can impact an individual company when estimating the amount of future income taxes to be paid, we believe the use of a pre-tax measure is valuable for evaluating the Company. We believe that PV-10 is a financial measure routinely used and calculated similarly by other companies in the oil and gas industry. However, PV-10 should not be considered as an alternative to the standardized measure as computed under GAAP.
The standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows relating to our total proved oil and gas reserves as of December 31, 2012 is as follows:
After giving effect to the Eagle Ford Properties Sale:
Item 3.