Item 2. PROPERTIES
Eagle Ford Shale Properties
The Company made its initial entry into the Eagle Ford Shale through the acquisition of Sharon Resources, Inc. in October 2009. We subsequently expanded our Eagle Ford Shale position through additional leasing activities and entry into two joint ventures, one with Hunt Oil Company, or Hunt Oil, in May 2010, and the other with a private independent oil and gas company in October 2010. Our Eagle Ford Shale properties are held primarily by our wholly-owned subsidiary, Eagle Ford Hunter, Inc.
The Eagle Ford Shale is one of the fastest growing unconventional resource plays in the U.S. Since July 2010, the industry rig count in the Eagle Ford Shale has grown from approximately 98 rigs to 263 rigs at February 24, 2012. Estimated original oil in place ranges from 20 to 40 mmbbls per section (640 acres). Based on our drilling results and those of others in the trend, we believe the Eagle Ford Shale can be characterized as having very low geological risks and repeatable drilling opportunities.
As of February 27, 2012, our Eagle Ford Shale properties included approximately 54,000 gross (24,000 net) acres primarily targeting the Eagle Ford Shale oil window, principally in Gonzales and Lavaca Counties, Texas. As of December 31, 2011, proved reserves attributable to our Eagle Ford Shale properties were 5.4 mmboe on an SEC basis, of which 94% were oil and 24% were classified as proved developed producing, and 5.4 mmboe on a NYMEX basis. As of February 27, 2012, our Eagle Ford Shale properties included 18 gross (10 net) productive wells, of which we operated 14.
Our joint venture with Hunt Oil covers an area of mutual interest, or AMI, consisting of 32,412 gross acres (15,050 net acres) in Gonzales and Lavaca Counties, Texas, in which we and Hunt Oil each have a 50% ownership interest. Both parties have agreed to work together within the AMI on an equal and joint basis through December 2014. Both parties have cross-assigned existing ownership interests in their respective lease acreage positions for both Lavaca and Gonzales Counties. Additionally, the parties share all leasing, exploration, drilling, completion and development costs and other expenses in the AMI on an equal basis. Each company has also agreed to allow the other to be the designated operator for all wells on lease acres contributed to the AMI by the other. All wells drilled under our Hunt Oil joint venture have been, and all new wells to be drilled under the joint venture are expected to be, Eagle Ford Shale horizontal wells.
Our joint venture with the private independent oil and gas company covers an AMI consisting of approximately 4,000 gross acres (2,000 net acres) of certain specific lease acreage positions currently owned by the Company and the other party in Gonzales and Lavaca Counties, Texas. Both parties have agreed to work together within the AMI on an equal and joint basis through October 2013. The parties share all leasing, exploration, drilling, completion and development costs and other expenses in the AMI on an equal basis. We are the operator under the joint venture. All wells drilled under the joint venture have been, and all new wells to be drilled under the joint venture are expected to be, Eagle Ford Shale horizontal wells.
The Eagle Ford Shale is a Cretaceous aged shale ranging in thickness from less than 50 feet to over 300 feet. The Eagle Ford Shale is present within the subsurface along the entire Gulf Coast of Texas and is productive within the majority of the trend, producing from the more brittle calcareous shale sections. The Eagle Ford Shale produces from depths that range from approximately 7,500 to 14,000 feet.
Our Eagle Ford Shale acreage is located in Gonzales, Lavaca, Atascosa and Fayette Counties, Texas (Eagleville Field) within the prolific oil window. The Company has focused within the oil trend of the Eagle Ford Shale (9,000 to 11,500 feet) to provide better economic returns. The effective development of our Eagle Ford Shale assets depends on optimization of horizontal drilling techniques and more effective completion procedures. Increased lateral length, increased number of frac stages and proper frac fluid selection are also important factors in increasing EURs and production rates. As a result of improving drilling and completion techniques, we have experienced significantly improved IP rates, EURs and rates of return for our Eagle Ford Shale wells. Our six most recently completed Company operated wells in the Eagle Ford Shale have generated an average IP-24 hour rate of approximately 1,602 boepd. We have currently identified approximately 358 gross (179 net) horizontal drilling locations on our Eagle Ford Shale properties, of which less than 15% are currently classified as proved reserves.
We have an active drilling program in our Peach Creek and Shiner prospect areas, located in Gonzales and Lavaca Counties near the towns of Moulton and Shiner, Texas. The Company has an average working interest of 50% and net revenue interest of 38.3% in the Peach Creek and Shiner wells. The Company has an average working interest of 96.75% and net revenue interest of 72.56% in the Alright area of the Eagleville Field in southwestern Atascosa County, near Charlotte, Texas. This area is central to an active Eagle Ford Shale area called the four corners, which includes acreage in Atascosa, Frio, McMullen and LaSalle Counties, Texas.
We have drilled, fraced and produced from 18 gross (10 net) horizontal wells in the Eagle Ford Shale. The following table contains information regarding our Eagle Ford Shale horizontal wells as of February 27, 2012.
Our Eagle Ford Shale preliminary capital expenditure budget for 2012 is currently $50 million, although we expect to increase this budget, depending on our drilling results and capital availability.
Williston Basin Properties
As of February 27, 2012, our Williston Basin properties included approximately 413,003 gross (122,561 net) acres. As of December 31, 2011, proved reserves attributable to our Williston Basin properties were 8.9 mmboe on an SEC basis, of which 94% were oil and 42% were classified as proved developed producing, and 8.8 mmboe on a NYMEX basis. As of February 27, 2012, the Williston Basin properties included approximately 288 gross (98.9 net) productive wells.
The Company made its entry into the Williston Basin through the acquisition of interests in waterflood properties in North Dakota from a private independent oil and gas company in December 2006. These properties are our North Dakota legacy properties. We expanded our position in the Williston Basin with the acquisition of NuLoch in May 2011. The acquired NuLoch properties included operated properties in Alberta and Saskatchewan, Canada and non-operated properties in North Dakota.
The Williston Basin is spread across North Dakota, Montana and parts of southern Canada with the U.S. portion of the basin encompassing approximately 143,000 square miles. The basin produces oil and natural gas from numerous producing horizons including the Madison, Bakken, Three Forks/Sanish and Red River formations. The Bakken formation is a Devonian age shale found within the Williston Basin. The North Dakota Geological Survey and Oil and Gas Division estimates that the Bakken formation is capable of generating between 271 and 500 billion bbls of oil. The Bakken formation underlies portions of North Dakota and Montana and southern Canada and is generally found at vertical depths of 9,000 to 10,500 feet. Below the Lower Bakken Shale lies the Three Forks/Sanish formations, which have also proven to contain highly productive reservoir rock. The Three Forks/Sanish formations typically consist of interbedded dolomites and shale with local development of a discontinuous sandy member at the top, known as the Sanish sand. Economic crude oil development and production from the Bakken Shale and Three Forks/Sanish reservoirs are made possible through the combination of advanced horizontal drilling and fracture stimulation technology. Horizontal wells in these formations are typically drilled on 640 acre or 1,280 acre spacing with horizontal laterals extending 4,500 to 9,500 feet into the reservoir. Ultimately, a spacing unit may be developed with up to four horizontal wells in each formation. Fracture stimulation techniques generally utilize multi-stage mechanically diverted stimulations.
The following table contains information regarding our recently completed Williston Basin horizontal wells as of February 27, 2012.
Williston Hunter U.S. Properties
As of February 27, 2012, our Williston Hunter U.S. properties included approximately 36,355 net acres in the Williston Basin in North Dakota, which are prospective for the Bakken Shale and Three Forks/Sanish formations. As of February 27, 2012, the Williston Hunter U.S. properties included approximately 105 gross (9.5 net) productive wells, all of which were operated by third parties.
Our Williston Hunter U.S. property acreage is located in Divide and Burke Counties, North Dakota, with our primary production from these properties coming from the Bakken Shale and Three Forks/Sanish formations. Currently, all of our Williston Hunter U.S. properties are operated by larger industry participants, including Samson Oil and Gas Limited and Baytex Energy Corp. NuLoch’s strategy has been to utilize much larger industry participants, with local presence and the ability to secure drilling services, as the operators of its properties. However, Magnum Hunter’s new strategy, in North Dakota as well as its other core areas, is to acquire properties that it can operate and to increase its working interests, where possible. Since the completion of the NuLoch acquisition in May 2011 through December 31, 2011, Williston Hunter U.S. has participated in the drilling of 87 wells (8.1 net). Most of these wells produce from the Three Forks/Sanish formations. Some wells produce from the middle Bakken Shale. At December 31, 2011, 12 horizontal wells (one net) were awaiting completion, five wells (0.4 net) were drilling and six drilling rigs were operating on our Williston Hunter U.S. properties.
Williston Hunter U.S. plans to continue to expand its Bakken Shale and Three Forks/Sanish drilling program in 2012 at an estimated cost to Williston Hunter U.S. of approximately $39.2 million.
Williston Hunter Canada Properties
Our Williston Hunter Canada property acreage is located primarily in Enchant, near Vauxhall, Alberta, Canada, at Balsam near Grande Prairie, Alberta, Canada and at Tableland, near Estevan, Saskatchewan, Canada. As of February 27 2012, the Williston Hunter Canada properties included approximately 107,270 gross acres (79,693 net acres). At December 31, 2011, the Williston Hunter Canada properties included approximately 65 gross productive wells, all of which we operated.
Saskatchewan - The Tableland properties target sweet light oil from the Bakken Shale and Three Forks/Sanish formations. At December 31, 2011, Williston Hunter Canada had 41,797 gross (32,944 net) acres of largely contiguous land that is prospective for Bakken and Three Forks/Sanish oil in the Tableland field. Williston Hunter Canada had 17 producing oil wells (15.2 net) at Tableland at December 31, 2011, and had two wells (two net) awaiting completion and one well (one net) drilling at year end. As a result of new fracing techniques utilized on our last five completed Tableland wells, our IP-24 hour rates for these wells have averaged approximately 500 boepd each.
We plan to continue our drilling program in Tableland in 2012 at an estimated cost of approximately $10.8 million. We may expand our drilling activities in Tableland, depending on continued improved drilling results and capital availability.
Alberta - The Alberta properties target shallow natural gas and sweet light oil from the Enchant Second White Specks formation and Kiskatinaw formation. Our Alberta properties include the Enchant Second White Specks and Balsam properties. The Enchant property consists of 10,720 acres. At December 31, 2011, 48 wells (44.1 net) were producing on this acreage. The natural gas is collected by Williston Hunter Canada’s gathering system and compressed and processed through third-party facilities. The Balsam property consists of a 63% working interest in two producing Kiskatinaw oil wells. The oil is produced to tanks and trucked to market and the associated solution gas is processed in third-party facilities.
North Dakota Legacy Properties
At December 31, 2011, the Company owned an approximately 43% average non-operated working interest in 15 fields located in the Williston Basin in North Dakota comprising 151 wells and approximately 15,000 gross (6,450 net) acres. These leases are operated by a private company that presently owns the remaining working interests. Approximately 90% of these leases, which are located in Burke, Renville, Ward, Bottineau and McHenry Counties in North Dakota, are held by production.
Appalachian Basin Properties
The Appalachian Basin is considered one of the most mature oil and natural gas producing regions in the U.S. The Company made its entry into the Appalachian Basin in February 2010 through the acquisition by our wholly-owned subsidiary, Triad Hunter, of substantially all the assets of privately-held Triad Energy Corporation and certain of its affiliates, collectively Triad Energy. Triad Hunter acquired the assets of Triad Energy in connection with Triad Energy’s reorganization under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code.
In 2010 and 2011, Triad Hunter expanded its position in the Marcellus Shale area of the Appalachian Basin through multiple transactions, including the PostRock asset acquisitions, the Windsor asset acquisition and the Stone Energy joint venture, which resulted in an increase in our Marcellus Shale acreage of an aggregate of approximately 12,694 gross (11,235 net) acres to a total of approximately 72,668 gross (58,426 net) acres as of February 27, 2012. Triad Hunter also recently expanded its leasehold position in the Utica Shale through an acquisition of approximately 15,558 gross (12,186 net) acres in southeastern Ohio. The properties held by Triad Hunter are referred to as our Triad Hunter properties.
The Company further expanded its presence in the southern Appalachian Basin through the acquisition of NGAS in April 2011. The properties acquired in the NGAS acquisition are held by our wholly-owned subsidiary, Magnum Hunter Production, Inc., referred to as Magnum Hunter Production or MHP. The properties held by Magnum Hunter Production are referred to as our Magnum Hunter Production or MHP properties.
As of February 27, 2012, our Appalachian Basin properties included a total of approximately 484,412 gross (412,323 net) acres, located primarily in the Marcellus Shale, Utica Shale and southern Appalachian Basin. At December 31, 2011, proved reserves attributable to our Appalachian Basin properties were 29.9 mmboe on an SEC basis, of which 27% were oil and 59% were classified as proved developed producing, and 30.2 mmboe on a NYMEX basis. As of February 27, 2012, the Appalachian Basin properties included approximately 3,112 gross (2,257 net) productive wells, of which we operated approximately 88%.
We have allocated approximately $50 million of our 2012 preliminary capital budget to our upstream operations in the Appalachian Basin.
Marcellus Shale Properties
As of February 27, 2012, we had approximately 58,426 net acres in the Marcellus Shale area of West Virginia and Ohio. Our Marcellus Shale acreage is located principally in Tyler, Pleasants, Doddridge, Wetzel and Lewis Counties, West Virginia and in Washington, Monroe and Noble Counties, Ohio. As of February 27, 2012, the Company operated 33 vertical Marcellus Shale wells and 16 horizontal Marcellus Shale wells. As of February 27, 2012, approximately 63% of our leases in the Marcellus Shale area were held by production.
The liquids rich natural gas produced in the Company’s core Marcellus Shale area (which has a btu content ranging from 1,125 to 1,375), coupled with a location near the energy-consuming regions of the mid-Atlantic and northeastern U.S., typically allow the Company to sell its natural gas at a premium to prevailing NYMEX spot prices. Once MarkWest Liberty’s Mobley gas processing complex becomes operational, Triad Hunter will be able to sell the liquids portion of its gas stream, which we anticipate will result in a pricing uplift attributable to these liquids of approximately $1.00 to $1.50 per mcfe. For these reasons, we believe our Marcellus Shale properties generate a more attractive rate of return compared to other U.S. natural gas regions.
Historically, producers in the Appalachian Basin developed oil and natural gas from shallow Mississippian age sandstone and Upper Devonian age shales with low permeability, which are prevalent in the region. Traditional shallow wells in the Appalachian Basin generally produce little or no water, contributing to a low cost of operation. However, in recent years, the application of lateral well drilling and completion technology has led to the development of the Marcellus Shale, transforming the Appalachian Basin into one of the country’s premier natural gas reserves.
The productive limits of the Marcellus Shale cover a large area within New York, Pennsylvania, Ohio and West Virginia. This Devonian age shale is a black, organic rich shale deposit productive at depths between 5,500 and 6,500 feet and ranges in thickness from 50 to 80 feet. It is considered the largest natural gas field in the country. Marcellus Shale gas is best produced from hydraulically fractured horizontal wellbores, exceeding 2,000 feet in lateral length, and involving multistage fracturing completions.
Triad Hunter has drilled, fraced and produced from 15 gross (13.5 net) horizontal wells in the Marcellus Shale to date. As a result of our improved drilling and fracing techniques, our IP-24 hour rates for the seven most recently completed Company operated wells in the Marcellus Shale have averaged 9,914 mmcfpd. The following table contains information regarding our recently drilled Marcellus Shale horizontal wells as of February 27, 2012.
Triad Hunter plans to continue to expand its Marcellus Shale horizontal well drilling program in 2012. Completion operations on the newly drilled Marcellus Shale wells may be delayed until the later months of 2012 in anticipation of higher natural gas prices and the installation and operation of the Mobley gas processing complex.
Stone Energy Joint Venture
In December 2011, Triad Hunter entered into joint development and operating agreements with Stone Energy Corporation, or Stone Energy, pursuant to which the parties agreed to jointly develop a contract area consisting of approximately 1,925 leasehold acres in the Marcellus Shale in Wetzel County, West Virginia. Each party owns a 50% working interest in the contract area. Stone Energy has been designated as the operator for the contract area. Stone Energy also contributed to the joint venture certain infrastructure assets, including improved roadways, certain central field processing units (including water handling), and gas flow lines, and agreed to commit its share of natural gas production from the contract area to gathering by our Eureka Hunter Pipeline System.
Utica Shale Properties
In February 2012, Triad Hunter acquired leasehold mineral interests located primarily in Noble County, Ohio from a third party for a total purchase price of $24.8 million. The acquired lease acreage consists of approximately 15,558 gross (12,186 net) acres that are presently prospective for the Utica Shale, substantially all of which is held by shallow production. The acquired acreage is in
close proximity to other Triad Hunter acreage in Washington and Noble Counties, Ohio. Triad Hunter has agreed to acquire another block of similar acreage from the seller on or before April 16, 2012, assuming the seller can satisfy certain title requirements and meet certain other required conditions. The acquisition of this Utica Shale acreage significantly expands our acreage position in a strategic region of Ohio, and also provides the opportunity for our midstream business to expand our Eureka Hunter Pipeline System into this region, which is currently not served by midstream competitors.
Many in the industry believe the Utica Shale could rival the Marcellus Shale in terms of oil and gas potential. Like the Marcellus Shale, the productive limits of the Utica Shale cover a large area within New York, Pennsylvania, Ohio and West Virginia. This Ordovician age shale is a dark gray to black, organic rich shale deposit productive at depths between 6,000 and 12,500 feet and ranges in thickness from 100 to 500 feet. However, the industry is currently targeting a lower portion of the Utica Shale called the Point Pleasant formation, which ranges in thickness between 80 and 120 feet. Utica Shale gas is best produced from hydraulically fractured horizontal wellbores that generally exceed 4,000 feet in lateral length and typically involve multistage fracturing completions.
Triad Hunter owns mineral rights to a total of approximately 61,151 net acres that are presently prospective for the Utica Shale. Approximately 17,375 of these net acres are located in Ohio (which include the acreage acquired in February 2012 and the balance of which overlaps our Marcellus Shale acreage), and approximately 43,776 of the net acres are located in West Virginia (all of which overlaps our Marcellus Shale acreage).
Processing Agreement
In October 2011, Triad Hunter entered into a processing agreement with MarkWest Liberty pursuant to which MarkWest Liberty will provide long-term gas processing and related services for natural gas produced in northwest West Virginia by both Triad Hunter and other producers that is gathered through our Eureka Hunter Pipeline System.
Southern Appalachian Basin Properties
As of February 27, 2012, our Magnum Hunter Production properties included approximately 367,140 gross (313,124 net) lease acres located in the southern Appalachian Basin, primarily in Kentucky. Our primary production from the MHP properties comes from the Devonian Shale formation and the Mississippian Weir sandstone.
The Devonian Shale formation is considered an unconventional target due to its low permeability; however, in recent years, the application of lateral well drilling and completion technology has led to improved economics. The Devonian Shale generally produces little or no water, contributing to a low cost of operation. As of February 27, 2012, MHP had drilled 77 Devonian Shale horizontal wells, primarily in the Huron and Cleveland sections of the Devonian Shale formation. In 2011, MHP drilled 12 Huron horizontal wells and four Cleveland horizontal wells, principally to hold existing acreage commitments covering a total of approximately 223,500 net acres.
The Mississippian Weir sandstone covers approximately 38,000 gross (32,300 net) acres of our MHP properties. In 2011, MHP drilled four Weir horizontal wells with increasingly encouraging results as we extended our lateral lengths and continued to optimize our completion techniques. The Weir produces oil in addition to high btu natural gas. As of February 27, 2012, we were drilling one Weir horizontal well. We plan to drill a minimum of four additional Weir horizontal wells in 2012 under our preliminary 2012 capital budget.
The Magnum Hunter Production properties also include a non-operating interest in a coalbed methane project in the Arkoma Basin in Arkansas and Oklahoma, in addition to certain non-operated projects in West Virginia and Virginia. Magnum Hunter Production also owns and operates a New Albany Shale field in western Kentucky known as Haley’s Mill. The Haley’s Mill field contains approximately 36,465 net acres on which the New Albany Shale formation is present at depths ranging from 2,600 to 2,800 feet. As of February 27, 2012, we were
operating three producing horizontal wells in the Haley’s Mill field. Magnum Hunter Production also co-owns a processing facility in the Haley’s Mill field which reduces nitrogen levels in the natural gas produced from the field to pipeline quality standards.
Other Properties
South Louisiana/East Chalkley-Our East Chalkley field is located in Cameron Parish, Louisiana. The field consists of approximately 714 gross acres (443 net acres). This developmental project is an exploitation of bypassed oil reserves remaining in a natural gas field located at depths between 9,300 and 9,400 feet. As of February 27, 2012, the Company operated the East Chalkley field and owned an approximately 62% working interest and an approximately 42.7% net revenue interest in the field. We have not allocated any capital to this project for 2012.
Other Texas and Louisiana Assets-Other properties of the Company are located in Nacogdoches, Colorado, Lavaca, Bee, Fayette and Wharton Counties, Texas and Desoto Parish, Louisiana. As of February 27, 2012, these properties consisted of an aggregate of approximately 7,050 gross (1,188 net) acres. We have not allocated any capital to these assets for 2012.
Midstream Assets
Eureka Hunter Pipeline System
Our acquisition of assets from Triad Energy in 2010 included important infrastructure assets for the efficient development of the Company’s Marcellus Shale and Utica Shale unconventional resources. As of February 27, 2012, these assets included approximately 207 miles of pipeline, gathering systems and/or rights-of-way, which we are currently developing, located in northwestern West Virginia and southeastern Ohio, in the Marcellus and Utica Shales. This is our Eureka Hunter Pipeline System. The Eureka Hunter Pipeline System runs through Pleasants, Tyler, Ritchie, Wetzel, Marion, Harrison, Doddridge, Lewis and Monongalia Counties in West Virginia and Washington County, Ohio, in certain of the liquids rich portions of the Marcellus and Utica Shales. We expect our Eureka Hunter Pipeline System to have sufficient pipeline capacity to gather significant quantities of Company produced natural gas from our Marcellus Shale and Utica Shale development programs, as well as substantial volumes of third-party gas.
Eureka Hunter is currently constructing new 20-inch and 16-inch high-pressure pipeline with approximately 300 mmcfpd of initial throughput capacity. The first pipeline section of six miles was turned to sales in December 2010. Since then, Eureka Hunter has completed the construction of approximately 39 additional miles of pipeline, for a total of 45 miles of completed pipeline as of February 27, 2012. This additional construction included (i) 10 miles of 20-inch pipeline extending easterly from the initial six mile segment towards the pipeline’s future Lewis Wetzel Lateral and the planned Mobley gas processing complex (see “MarkWest Processing Agreement” below), (ii) the Pursley Lateral, which is a 20-inch lateral section of pipeline extending 14 miles northerly in Tyler County, West Virginia, terminating near the border of Tyler and Wetzel Counties, and (iii) approximately three miles of 20-inch mainline westerly in Wetzel County connecting to the Pursley Lateral. The Pursley Lateral will enable the Eureka Hunter Pipeline System to gather gas produced by Triad Hunter and third party producers in the Middlebourne area of Tyler County, West Virginia.
We have budgeted $50 million for Eureka Hunter projects in 2012, of which approximately $35.9 million is expected to be used for the construction of three key Eureka Hunter Pipeline System laterals, namely, the Lewis Wetzel Lateral, the Mobley Lateral and the Doddridge Lateral. We expect the 2012 budgeted Eureka Hunter capital expenditures will be funded through the Eureka Hunter Credit Facilities. The Lewis Wetzel Lateral will be approximately seven miles of 20-inch mainline that will connect to the Mobley Lateral. The 20-inch Mobley Lateral will extend easterly approximately eight miles for the delivery of gas to MarkWest Liberty’s planned Mobley processing complex in Wetzel County, West Virginia. The 16-inch Doddridge Lateral will initially extend four miles southerly into Doddridge County, West Virginia from the system’s 20-inch mainline in Tyler County, West Virginia.
MarkWest Processing Agreement
In October 2011, Triad Hunter entered into certain midstream services agreements with MarkWest Liberty pursuant to which MarkWest Liberty will provide long-term gas processing and related services for natural gas produced in northwest West Virginia gathered by Eureka Hunter for both Triad Hunter and other producers through the Eureka Hunter Pipeline System. In October 2011, Eureka Hunter and MarkWest Liberty entered into a mutual cooperation agreement whereby both companies agreed to jointly develop natural gas-related services to support Marcellus Shale producers in a significant geographic area in northwest West Virginia. Pursuant to this agreement, Eureka Hunter sold its 200 mmcfe per day capacity Thomas Russell cryogenic natural gas processing plant, which was then under construction, to MarkWest Liberty. MarkWest Liberty intends to install this new plant, the Mobley 2 plant, adjacent to MarkWest Liberty’s 120 mmcfe per day capacity natural gas processing plant, the Mobley 1 plant, near Logansport, West Virginia. We anticipate that the Mobley 1 plant will be in commercial operation during the third quarter of 2012 and the Mobley 2 plant will be in commercial operation during the fourth quarter of 2012. MarkWest Liberty will also provide natural gas liquids handling and fractionation services for Mobley plant products. We have contracted for a specified amount of firm capacity at the Mobley 2 plant and, until the Mobley 2 plant becomes operational, may enter into processing arrangements for interruptible capacity at the Mobley 1 plant. Natural gas production processed at the Mobley complex will be able to access both the Columbia Gas Transmission and the Equitrans interstate pipeline systems. These agreements with MarkWest Liberty will allow Eureka Hunter to offer third party producers in the Marcellus Shale not only gas gathering services through the Eureka Hunter Pipeline System, but also access to natural gas processing at MarkWest Liberty’s Mobley complex.
Other Gas Gathering and Processing
Gas Gathering. Natural gas production from our Magnum Hunter Production properties is delivered through gas gathering and midstream facilities owned by Seminole Energy Services, L.L.C. under gas gathering and sales agreements with Seminole Energy and affiliates, referred to as the Seminole Energy gathering agreements. The Seminole Energy gathering agreements provide Magnum Hunter Production with long-term operating rights and firm capacity rights for daily delivery of up to 30,000 mcf of controlled gas through Seminole Energy’s Appalachian gathering system, which interconnects with Spectra Energy Partners’ East Tennessee Interstate pipeline network at Rogersville, Tennessee. This ensures continued deliverability from our connected fields, representing over 90% of our Magnum Hunter Production natural gas production, to major East Coast natural gas markets.
The Seminole Energy gathering agreements were restructured in connection with our acquisition of NGAS in April 2011. The restructured agreements substantially reduced the gas gathering fees payable by Magnum Hunter Production for all throughput volumes from future wells in the reserve areas dedicated to Seminole Energy under these agreements.
Gas Processing. Eureka Hunter owns a 50% interest in a liquids extraction plant in Rogersville, Tennessee, used for the processing of natural gas delivered through Seminole Energy’s Appalachian gathering system. Magnum Hunter Production owns a 50% interest in a nitrogen rejection facility in Western Kentucky, used for the processing of MHP’s Illinois Basin production. The Rogersville processing plant extracts natural gas liquids at levels enabling us to flow dry pipeline quality natural gas into the interstate network. The Rogersville processing plant is currently configured for throughput at rates up to 25,000 mcf per day, which can be increased to accommodate production growth and relief of constrained regional supplies. The nitrogen rejection facility is part of the infrastructure build-out for MHP’s New Albany Shale project in western Kentucky. Both the Rogersville processing plant and the western Kentucky nitrogen rejection facility are co-owned and are operated by Seminole Energy. Gas processing fees are volume dependent and are shared with Seminole Energy.
Equipment and Services
Alpha Hunter Drilling-Our wholly-owned subsidiary, Alpha Hunter Drilling, LLC, currently owns and operates five drilling rigs capable of drilling 6,000 to 10,000 feet, which are primarily used for vertical section (top-hole) air drilling. The drilling rigs are used for both the Company’s Appalachian Basin operations and to provide drilling services to third parties. The Company’s fleet consists of three Schramm T200XD drilling rigs and two Schramm T130XD drilling rigs. These drilling rigs primarily drill the top-holes of the Company’s and third parties’ Marcellus Shale wells in preparation for larger drilling rigs, which drill the horizontal sections of the wells. This style of drilling has proven to reduce overall drilling costs, by minimizing mobilization and demobilization charges and significantly decreasing the overall time to drill horizontal wells on each pad site. At February 27, 2012, one of our three Schramm T200XD drilling rigs was under contract to a large producer in the Appalachian Basin area for the drilling of multiple wells. The Company is currently in negotiations with third party producers to lease the second Schramm T200XD drilling rig under a multi-well drilling contract. The Company uses the third Schramm T200XD drilling rig for drilling the top-holes for the Company’s Marcellus Shale drilling program and leases the drilling rig on the spot market when it is not in use by the Company. At February 27, 2012, the two T130XD Schramm drilling rigs were contracted on the spot market.
Water Disposal-Typically, Marcellus Shale wells produce significant amounts of water that, in most cases, require disposal. In February 2012, we sold our Marcellus Shale commercial salt water disposal operations, which included salt water disposal facilities located in Ohio and Kentucky, to a third party for aggregate cash and other consideration valued at $8.8 million, subject to certain working capital, earnings and other similar adjustments. We entered into services agreements with the buyer of the operations pursuant to which the buyer agreed to provide us with a specified level of salt water disposal capacity at the facilities for a term of five years. See “Item 7 - Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Related Party Transactions.”
Marketing and Pricing
General
We derive revenue principally from the sale of oil and natural gas. As a result, our revenues are determined, to a large degree, by prevailing prices for crude oil and natural gas. We sell our oil and natural gas on the open market at prevailing market prices. The market price for oil and natural gas is dictated by supply and demand, and we cannot accurately predict or control the price we may receive for our oil and natural gas.
The Company generally markets its U.S. and Canadian oil and natural gas production under “month-to-month” or “spot” contracts and, in some cases, under contracts of approximately one-year duration.
Marketing of U.S. Production
Since mid-2011, we have received premium pricing for our marketing of the crude oil produced from our Eagle Ford Shale properties. We attribute this premium pricing to the high quality and geographic location of the crude oil product. This crude oil is approximately 40 to 42 degrees API gravity and is considered “sweet” because it is low in sulfur. Since our production is within relatively close proximity to refineries near Corpus Christi, Texas, the Houston Ship Channel and St. James, Louisiana, we are able to utilize to some extent the price differentials existing in the West Texas Intermediate, or WTI, and Louisiana Light Sweet markets to gain better pricing for our marketing of the production. This combination of production location and crude oil quality have allowed us to sell our Eagle Ford Shale crude oil at prices above WTI price postings during the second half of 2011 and into 2012, and we anticipate that market conditions should allow us to continue to receive pricing above WTI postings further into 2012. Currently, we are marketing our Eagle Ford Shale crude oil at prices that are averaging approximately $9.50 per bbl above WTI price postings. We market our Eagle Ford Shale crude oil production to at least three markets to assure competitive pricing, retain the ability to move production as quickly as possible and reduce buyer credit exposure.
We generally sell our natural gas production on “month-to-month” or “spot” pricing contracts to a variety of buyers, including large marketing companies, local distribution companies and industrial customers. We diversify our markets to help reduce buyer credit risk and to ensure steady daily deliveries of our natural gas production. As natural gas production increases in our core operating areas, especially in the Appalachian Basin region, we believe that we and other producers in these areas will find it increasingly important to find markets that have the ability to move natural gas volumes through an increasingly capacity-constrained infrastructure.
We sell natural gas liquids extracted from our Eagle Ford Shale natural gas production to the processing plant operator at current spot prices. We expect that our natural gas liquids (other than ethane, when and if extracted) to be extracted and fractionated by MarkWest Liberty, when MarkWest Liberty’s Mobley gas processing complex becomes operational, will be marketed by MarkWest Liberty at prevailing market prices. We will be responsible for the marketing of such ethane, if and when extracted, depending on when the Mobley complex goes into ethane recovery mode. We expect that several markets will be available at that time for ethane sales.
Marketing of Canadian Production
Our oil production in Alberta and Saskatchewan is sold through a crude oil marketing firm. Our oil production is mostly 38 - 42 degrees API gravity and is considered “sweet” since it contains only a small percentage of sulfur. Typically, clean oil is hauled from our facilities to a truck terminal where it enters the North American pipeline system and is sold to purchasers at monthly spot prices. The majority of our oil production is sold at a bench mark price at Cromer, Canada and adjusted for equalization and all applicable transportation charges to Cromer.
Our Canadian natural gas production is sold through a marketing consulting firm. We currently sell gas from our Alberta properties to a buyer at “spot” natural gas prices less transportation, fuel and measurement variance costs, under a one-year contract ending on October 31, 2012.
We sell a small amount of natural gas liquids extracted from some of our Alberta natural gas production to the processing plant operator at current spot prices.
Derivatives
We use commodity price hedging instruments to reduce our exposure to oil and natural gas price fluctuations and to help ensure that we have adequate cash flow to fund our debt service costs, preferred dividend payments and future capital programs. From time to time, we may enter into futures contracts, collars and basis swap agreements, as well as fixed price physical delivery contracts; however, it is our preference to utilize hedging strategies that provide downside commodity price protection without unduly limiting our revenue potential in an environment of rising commodity prices. We use hedging primarily to manage price risks and returns on certain acquisitions and drilling programs. Our policy is to consider hedging an appropriate portion of our production at commodity prices we deem attractive.
Pricing
Our revenues, cash flows, profitability and future rate of growth depend substantially upon prevailing prices for oil and natural gas. Prices also affect the amount of cash flow available for capital expenditures and our ability to borrow money or raise additional capital. Lower prices may also adversely affect the value of our reserves and make it uneconomic for us to commence or continue drilling for crude oil and natural gas. Historically, the prices received for oil and natural gas have fluctuated widely. Among the factors that can cause these fluctuations are:
•
uncertainty in the global economy;
•
changes in global supply and demand for oil and natural gas;
•
the condition of the United States, Canadian and global economies;
•
the actions of certain foreign countries;
•
the price and quantity of imports of foreign oil and liquid natural gas;
•
political conditions, including embargoes, war or civil unrest in or affecting oil producing activities of certain countries;
•
the level of global oil and natural gas exploration and production activity;
•
the level of global oil and natural gas inventories;
•
production or pricing decisions made by the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, or OPEC;
•
weather conditions;
•
technological advances affecting energy consumption or production; and
•
the price and availability of alternative fuels.
From time to time, we enter into hedging arrangements and offset rights with our derivative counterparties to reduce our exposure to decreases in the prices of oil and natural gas. Hedging arrangements may expose us to risk of significant financial loss in certain situations, including circumstances where:
•
our production and/or sales of oil and natural gas are less than expected;
•
payments owed under derivative hedging contracts come due prior to receipt of the hedged month’s production revenue; or
•
the counterparty to the hedging contract defaults on its contract obligations.
In addition, hedging arrangements limit the benefit we would receive from increases in the price of oil and natural gas. Hedging transactions we may enter into may not adequately protect us from a decline in the price of oil and natural gas above certain caps. Furthermore, should we choose not to engage in hedging transactions in the future (to the extent we are not otherwise obligated to hedge under our credit facilities), we may be adversely affected by volatility in oil and natural gas prices.
As of December 31, 2011, we had the following hedges in place:
MHP Drilling Partnerships
Prior to our acquisition of NGAS in April 2011, NGAS had, from 1996 through 2010, sponsored 38 drilling partnerships for accredited investors to participate in certain of its drilling initiatives. Under these NGAS drilling partnerships, proceeds from the private placement of interests in each investment partnership, together with an NGAS capital contribution, were contributed to a separate joint venture or “program” that NGAS formed with that partnership to conduct the drilling operations.
In December 2011, our subsidiary, Magnum Hunter Production, completed its first sponsored drilling partnership, Energy Hunter Partners 2011-A, Ltd., raising approximately $12.9 million from accredited investors. The drilling partnership is structured to allow these investors to participate with Magnum Hunter Production in a portfolio of wells being drilled by the Company in our unconventional resource plays in the southern Appalachian Basin, the Marcellus Shale and the Eagle Ford Shale. The drilling partnership participates in the project wells through a joint venture operating partnership, referred to as the program, with Magnum Hunter Production, which serves as the managing general partner of the drilling partnership and the program. Proceeds from the private placement of interests in the drilling partnership, together with Magnum Hunter Production capital contributions, were contributed to the program to fund the program’s share of drilling and completion costs of the project wells. Interests in the program are shared proportionately until distributions to the drilling partnership reach 100% of its investment in the program, after which Magnum Hunter Production will earn an additional reversionary interest in the program, the amount of which depends on the timing of such payout. The program participates in the drilling and completion of the project wells on a cost plus 20% basis.
Magnum Hunter Production plans to sponsor an additional drilling and/or income partnership or partnerships in 2012 to participate in Company drilling and acquisition initiatives. Our 2011 program and any future programs are designed to enable us to accelerate the development of our properties without relinquishing control over drilling and operating decisions, while also enabling us to hold valuable acreage for future development.
Reserves
Our oil and gas properties are primarily located in (i) the Appalachian Basin in West Virginia, Ohio and Kentucky, with substantial acreage in the Marcellus Shale area in West Virginia; (ii) the Eagle Ford Shale area in south Texas; and (iii) the Williston Basin in North Dakota and Canada. Cawley, Gillespie & Associates, Inc., independent petroleum consultants, which we refer to as CGA, has estimated our U.S. oil and natural gas reserves (other than North Dakota reserves) and the present value of future net revenues therefrom as of December 31, 2011. Those estimates were determined based on prices and costs as of or for the twelve-month period ended December 31, 2011. AJM Deloitte and Touche, LLP, independent petroleum consultants, which we
refer to as AJM, has estimated our Canadian and North Dakota oil and natural gas reserves and the present value of future net revenues therefrom as of December 31, 2011. Those estimates were determined based on prices and costs as of or for the twelve-month period ended December 31, 2011. Since January 1, 2011, we have not filed, nor were we required to file, any reports concerning our oil and gas reserves with any federal authority or agency, other than the SEC and Canadian regulatory authorities.
There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of proved oil and gas reserves and estimates of reserve quantities and values must be viewed as being subject to significant change as more data about the properties become available.
Proved Reserves
In December 2008, the SEC released its finalized rule for “Modernization of Oil and Gas Reporting.” The new rule requires disclosure of oil and gas proved reserves by significant geographic area, using the arithmetic 12-month average beginning-of-the-month price for the year, as opposed to using year-end prices as was practiced in all previous years. The rule also allows for the use of reliable technologies to estimate proved oil and gas reserves, contingent on demonstrated reliability, in conclusions about reserve volumes. Under the new rules, companies are required to report on the independence and qualifications of their reserve preparers or auditors, and file reports when a third party is relied upon to prepare reserve estimates or conduct a reserve audit. The following table sets forth our estimated proved reserves based on the new SEC rules as defined in Rule 4.10(a) of Regulation S-X and Item 1200 of Regulation S-K.
The table below summarizes our proved reserves, based on NYMEX futures strip pricing as of December 31, 2011.
All of our reserves are located within the continental U.S. and Canada. Reserve estimates are inherently imprecise and remain subject to revisions based on production history, results of additional exploration and development, prices of oil and natural gas and other factors. Please read “Item 1A. Risk Factors-Our estimated proved reserves are based on many assumptions that may turn out to be inaccurate. Any significant inaccuracies in these reserve estimates or underlying assumptions may materially affect the quantities and present value of our reserves”. You should also read the notes following the table below and our consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2011 in conjunction with the following reserve estimates.
The following table sets forth our estimated proved reserves at the end of each of the past three years:
(1) The estimates of reserves in the table above conform to the guidelines of the SEC. Estimated recoverable proved reserves have been determined without regard to any economic impact that may result from our financial derivative activities. These calculations were prepared using standard geological and engineering methods generally accepted by the petroleum industry. The reserve information shown is estimated. The certainty of any reserve estimate is a function of the quality of available geological, geophysical, engineering and economic data, and the precision of the engineering and geological interpretation and judgment. The estimates of reserves, future cash flows and present value are based on various assumptions, and are inherently imprecise.
Although we believe these estimates are reasonable, actual future production, cash flows, taxes, development expenditures, operating expenses and quantities of recoverable oil and natural gas reserves may vary substantially from these estimates.
(2) We converted natural gas to oil equivalent at a ratio of six mcf to one boe.
(3) Represents the present value, discounted at 10% per annum (PV-10), of estimated future cash flows before income tax of our estimated proved reserves. The estimated future cash flows set forth above were determined by using reserve quantities of proved reserves and the periods in which they are expected to be developed and produced based on prevailing economic conditions. The estimated future production is priced based on the 12-month unweighted arithmetic average of the first-day-of-the-month price for the period January through December 2011, using $96.19 per bbl and $4.11 per mmbtu and adjusted by lease for transportation fees and regional price differentials. Management believes that the presentation of the non-GAAP financial measure of PV-10 provides useful information to investors because it is widely used by professional analysts and sophisticated investors in evaluating oil and natural gas companies. For more information regarding the use of PV-10, see “Non-GAAP Measures; Reconciliations” below.
As of December 31, 2011, our proved undeveloped reserves, or PUDs, on an SEC basis totaled 12.5 mmboe of crude oil and ngls and 49.0 bcf of natural gas for a total of 20.7 mmboe. Changes in PUDs that occurred during the year were due to increased drilling activity in our Eagle Ford Shale, Marcellus Shale and Bakken Shale/Three Forks/Sanish areas.
The following table summarizes the changes in our proved reserves for the year ended December 31, 2011:
Recent SEC Rule-Making Activity
In December 2008, the SEC announced that it had approved revisions designed to modernize the oil and gas company reserves reporting requirements. The most significant amendments to the requirements included the following:
•
Commodity Prices: Economic producibility of reserves and discounted cash flows are now based on a 12-month average commodity price unless contractual arrangements designate the price to be used.
•
Disclosure of Unproved Reserves: Probable and possible reserves may be disclosed separately on a voluntary basis.
•
Proved Undeveloped Reserve Guidelines: Reserves may be classified as proved undeveloped if there is a high degree of confidence that the quantities will be recovered and they are scheduled to be drilled within the next five years, unless the specific circumstances justify a longer time.
•
Reserves Estimation Using New Technologies: Reserves may be estimated through the use of reliable technology in addition to flow tests and production history.
•
Reserves Personnel and Estimation Process: Additional disclosure is required regarding the qualifications of the chief technical person who oversees the reserves estimation process. We are also required to provide a general discussion of our internal controls used to assure the objectivity of the reserves estimate.
•
Non-Traditional Resources: The definition of oil and gas producing activities has expanded and focuses on the marketable product rather than the method of extraction.
Reserve Estimation
CGA and AJM evaluated our oil and gas reserves on a consolidated basis as of December 31, 2011. The technical persons responsible for preparing our proved reserves estimates meet the requirements with regard to qualifications, independence, objectivity and confidentiality set forth in the Standards Pertaining to the Estimating and Auditing of Oil and Gas Reserves Information promulgated by the Society of Petroleum Engineers. CGA and AJM do not own an interest in any of our properties and are not employed by us on a contingent basis.
We maintain an internal staff of petroleum engineers and geoscience professionals who work closely with CGA and AJM to ensure the integrity, accuracy and timeliness of the data used to calculate our proved oil and gas reserves. Our internal technical team members meet with CGA and AJM periodically throughout the year to discuss the assumptions and methods used in the proved reserve estimation process. We provide historical
information to CGA and AJM for our properties such as ownership interest; oil and gas production; well test data; commodity prices; and operating and development costs. The preparation of our proved reserve estimates is completed in accordance with our internal control procedures, which include the verification of input data used by CGA and AJM, as well as extensive management review and approval. All of our reserve estimates are reviewed and approved by our executive vice president of operations and our vice president of reservoir engineering. Our executive vice president of operations holds a B.S. in petroleum engineering from the University of Louisiana-Lafayette with more than 36 years of experience and is a member of the National Society of Professional Engineers, Society of Petroleum Engineers, and the Society of Petroleum Evaluation Engineers. Our vice president of reservoir engineering holds a B.S. in chemical engineering from Ohio State University with more than 29 years of experience, was a member of the University of Texas External Advisory Committee for Petroleum and Geosystems Engineering and has served in various officer and board of director capacities for the Society of Petroleum Engineers.
The technologies used in the estimation of our proved reserves are commonly employed in the oil and gas industry and include seismic and micro-seismic operations, reservoir simulation modeling, analyzing well performance data and geological and geophysical mapping.
Acreage and Productive Wells Summary
The following tables set forth, for our continuing operations, our gross and net acreage of developed and undeveloped oil and natural gas leases and our gross and net productive oil and natural gas wells as of December 31, 2011.
(1) Developed acreage is the number of acres allocated or assignable to producing wells or wells capable of production.
(2) Undeveloped acreage is lease acreage on which wells have not been drilled or completed to a point that would permit the production of commercial quantities of oil and natural gas, regardless of whether such acreage includes proved reserves.
(3) Includes certain other properties described under “Other Properties” above.
(4) For purposes of this table, the Williston Hunter U.S. information includes the North Dakota legacy properties as described under “Item 2. Properties-Williston Basin-North Dakota Legacy Properties” above.
Substantially all of the leases summarized in the preceding table will expire at the end of their respective primary terms unless the existing lease is renewed or we have obtained production from the acreage subject to the lease before the end of the primary term; in which event, the lease will remain in effect until the cessation of production.
(1) Includes certain other properties described under “Other Properties” above.
(2) For purposes of this table, the Williston Hunter U.S. information includes the North Dakota legacy properties as described under “Item 2. Properties-Williston Basin-North Dakota Legacy Properties” above.
The following table sets forth, for our continuing operations, the gross and net acres of undeveloped land subject to leases summarized in the preceding table that will expire during the periods indicated if not ultimately held by production by drilling efforts.
Drilling Results
The following table summarizes our drilling activity for the past three years. Gross wells reflect the sum of all wells in which we own an interest. Net wells reflect the sum of our working interests in gross wells. All of our drilling activities were conducted on a contract basis by independent drilling contractors, except for our activities in the Marcellus Shale where we also utilize the drilling equipment of our subsidiary, Alpha Hunter Drilling, LLC.
(1) The success ratio is calculated as follows: (total wells drilled-non-productive wells-wells awaiting completion)/(total wells drilled-wells awaiting completion).
As of February 27, 2012, we had 41 gross (11.2 net) wells in the process of drilling or completing.
Oil and Gas Production, Prices and Costs
The following table shows the approximate net production attributable to our oil and gas interests, the average sales price and the average lease operating expense attributable to our total oil and gas production and for certain segments of our operations as required by SEC rules. Production and sales information relating to properties acquired is reflected in this table only since the closing date of the acquisition and may affect the comparability of the data between the periods presented. Property disposed of that is treated as discontinued operations has been excluded from such periods.
(1) This field was part of the assets acquired in the PostRock asset acquisitions. This field consists of 13,293 gross (10,389 net) acres in Wetzel County, West Virginia with 13 gross (11.5 net) producing wells as of February 27, 2012.
Title to Properties
We believe that we have satisfactory title to all of our producing properties in accordance with generally accepted industry standards. As is customary in the industry, in the case of undeveloped properties, often only minimal investigation of record title is made at the initial time of lease acquisition. A more comprehensive mineral title opinion review, a topographic evaluation and infrastructure investigations are made before the consummation of an acquisition of producing properties and before commencement of drilling operations on undeveloped properties. Individual properties may be subject to burdens that we believe do not materially interfere with the use or affect the value of the properties. Burdens on properties may include:
•
customary royalty interests;
•
liens incident to operating agreements and for current taxes;
•
obligations or duties under applicable laws;
•
development obligations under oil and gas leases;
•
net profit interests;
•
overriding royalty interests;
•
non-surface occupancy leases; and
•
lessor consents to placement of wells.
Non-GAAP Measures; Reconciliations
This annual report contains certain financial measures that are non-GAAP measures. We have provided reconciliations within this report of the non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures. These non-GAAP financial measures should be considered in addition to, but not as a substitute for, measures for financial performance prepared in accordance with GAAP that are presented in this report.
PV-10 is the present value of the estimated future cash flows from estimated total proved reserves after deducting estimated production and ad valorem taxes, future capital costs and operating expenses, but before deducting any estimates of future income taxes. The estimated future cash flows are discounted at an annual rate of 10% to determine their “present value”. We believe PV-10 to be an important measure for evaluating the relative significance of our oil and gas properties and that the presentation of the non-GAAP financial measure of PV-10 provides useful information to investors because it is widely used by professional analysts and investors in evaluating oil and gas companies. Because there are many unique factors that can impact an individual company when estimating the amount of future income taxes to be paid, we believe the use of a pre-tax measure is valuable for evaluating the Company. We believe that PV-10 is a financial measure routinely used and calculated similarly by other companies in the oil and gas industry. However, PV-10 should not be considered as an alternative to the standardized measure as computed under GAAP.
The standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows relating to our total proved oil and gas reserves is as follows (in thousands):
Item 3.