ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
Our Hotel Properties
Set forth below is a summary of certain information related to certain of our hotel properties as of December 31, 2011:
(1) Average daily rate (“ADR”)
(2) Average daily occupancy
(3) Revenue per available room (“RevPar”) is the product of ADR and average daily occupancy. RevPAR does not include food and beverage revenues or other hotel operations revenues such as telephone, parking and other guest services.
(4) As of December 31, 2011, we owned, or partially owned, and operated the food and beverage operations at Hudson, Morgans, Mondrian SoHo, Delano South Beach, Shore Club, Clift, and Boston Ames. As of December 31, 2011, we owned, or partially owned, the food and beverage operations at Sanderson, St Martins Lane and Mondrian South Beach, all of which are managed pursuant to short-term management agreements with CGM, which also manages the food and beverage operations at Mondrian Los Angeles pursuant to a short-term management agreement.
(5) We own 100% of Hudson, which is part of a property that is structured as a condominium, in which Hudson constitutes 96% of the square footage of the entire building. Hudson has a total of 920 rooms, including 86 SROs. SROs are single room dwelling units. Each SRO is for occupancy by a single eligible individual. The unit need not, but may, contain food preparation or sanitary facilities, or both. SROs remain from the prior ownership of the building and we are by statute required to maintain these long-term tenants, unless we get their consent, as long as they pay us their rent.
(6) As of December 31, 2011, the restaurant and nightclub were undergoing renovation and re-concepting. In January 2012, the new restaurant, Bianca, opened and in February, the new nightclub, FDR, opened. Additionally, the sushi bar was re-concepted in early 2012 and Umi Sushi & Sake Bar opened in late February 2012.
(7) Clift is operated under a long-term lease, which is accounted for as a financing.
(8) Operated under a management contract and owned through an unconsolidated joint venture in which we held a minority ownership interest of approximately 7% as of December 31, 2011.
(9) Operated under a management contract and owned through a 50/50 unconsolidated joint venture. As of December 31, 2011, 157 hotel residences have been sold, of which 82 are in the hotel rental pool.
(10) Operated under a management contract and owned through an unconsolidated joint venture in which we held a minority interest ownership of approximately 31% at December 30, 2011 based on cash contributions.
(11) Mondrian SoHo opened in February 2011 and all selected operating data is for the period when the hotel was open.
(12) Operated under a management contract and owned through an unconsolidated joint venture in which we held a minority ownership interest of approximately 20% at December 31, 2011 based on cash contributions.
(13) Operated under a management contract; wholly-owned until May 2011, when the hotel was sold to a third party.
(14) As of December 31, 2011, the restaurant and bar at Morgans were closed for renovation and re-concepting. We expect the new lounge and bar to open in mid-2012. Effective February 1, 2012, we transferred our ownership interest in Morgans food and beverage operations to the hotel owner by terminating our operating lease for the restaurant space.
(15) Operated under a management contract; owned through a 50/50 joint venture until November 2011, when the hotel was sold to a third party.
(16) The currency translation is based on an exchange rate of 1 British pound = 1.60 U.S. dollars, which is an average monthly exchange rate provided by www.oanda.com for the last twelve months ended December 31, 2011.
(17) Operated under a management contract.
Included in the above table is Hotel Las Palapas, a non- Morgans Hotel Group branded hotel that we manage but have no ownership interest. We anticipate that this hotel will be re-developed in the future, once funding is available to the hotel owners. Once re-developed, the hotel is expected to be converted into a Morgans Hotel Group branded hotel.
Owned Operations
Owned Hotels
The tables below reflect the results of operations of our Owned Hotel properties.
Hudson
Overview
Opened in 2000, Hudson is our largest New York City hotel, with 834 guest rooms and suites, including two ultra-luxurious accommodations - a 3,355 square foot penthouse with a landscaped terrace and an apartment with a 2,500 square foot tented terrace. The hotel, which is only a few blocks away from Columbus Circle, Time Warner Center and Central Park, has numerous food and beverage offerings including Hudson Hall, the primary restaurant, which was renovated, re-concepted and opened in May 2010, Private Park, Hudson Bar, the Library Bar and Sky Terrace. In February 2010, we completed and opened Good Units, an exclusive venue for special functions. The raw space was conceived for performances and other experiences. Hudson also offers multi-service meeting facilities, consisting of three executive board rooms, two suites and other facilities, with total capacity for 1,260.
We own 100% of Hudson, which is part of a property that is structured as a condominium, in which Hudson constitutes 96% of the square footage of the entire building. Hudson has a total of 920 rooms, including 86
SROs. SROs are single room dwelling units. Each SRO is for occupancy by a single eligible individual. The unit need not, but may, contain food preparation or sanitary facilities, or both. SROs remain from the prior ownership of the building and we are by statute required to maintain these long-term tenants, unless we get their consent to terminate the lease, as long as they pay us their rent. Over time, we intend to develop new guest rooms from rooms that were formerly SRO units.
We own a fee simple interest in Hudson. The hotel is subject to mortgage indebtedness as more fully described under “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Debt.”
Selected Financial and Operating Information
The following table shows selected financial and operating information for Hudson:
(1) Hudson’s primary restaurant, Hudson Hall was closed for renovation in late 2009 and opened in May 2010. Also, during the third quarter of 2011, Hudson Hall was closed for lunch.
Delano South Beach
Overview
Opened in 1995, Delano South Beach has 194 guest rooms, suites and lofts and is located in the heart of Miami Beach’s fashionable South Beach Art Deco district. The hotel features an “indoor/outdoor” lobby, the Water Salon and Orchard (which is Delano South Beach’s landscaped orchard and 100-foot long pool) and beach facilities. The hotel’s accommodations also include eight poolside bungalows and a penthouse and apartment. Delano South Beach’s food and beverage offerings were renovated and re-concepted in 2011 and include the restaurant, Bianca, which opened in January 2012, a poolside bistro, the Rose Bar, a lounge, FDR, which opened in February 2012, and Umi Sushi & Sake Bar, which also opened in February 2012. The hotel also features Agua Spa, a full-service spa facility. Delano South Beach also offers multi-service meeting facilities, consisting of one executive boardroom and other facilities.
In late 2011 and in early 2012, we spent approximately $10 million on projects at Delano South Beach to upgrade the exclusive bungalows and suites, improve public areas, including the pool, restaurant and bar space, and create additional meeting space. This work was begun in the third quarter of 2011 and was completed in the first quarter of 2012.
We own a fee simple interest in Delano South Beach. The hotel secures our revolving credit facility as more fully described under “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Debt.”
Selected Financial and Operating Information
The following table shows selected financial and operating information for Delano South Beach:
Clift
Overview
Acquired in 1999 and reopened after an extensive renovation in 2001, Clift has 366 guestrooms and suites and is located in the heart of San Francisco’s Union Square district. The hotel features a restaurant, The Velvet Room, the Redwood Room Bar and the Living Room, which is available for private events. Clift also offers multi-service meeting facilities, consisting of two executive boardrooms, one suite and other facilities.
Our rights to operate Clift in San Francisco are based upon our interest under a 99-year lease. The lease is accounted for as a financing as more fully described under “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Debt.”
Selected Financial and Operating Information
The following table shows selected financial and operating information for Clift:
Owned Food and Beverage Operations
As of December 31, 2011, our Owned F&B Operations consisted of certain food and beverage operations located at Hudson, Morgans, Delano South Beach, Clift, and Sanderson and St Martins Lane, both in London. We operate all of our Owned F&B Operations, with the exception of the Owned F&B Operations at Sanderson and St Martins Lane, which are managed by CGM pursuant to short-term management agreements. Effective February 1, 2012, we transferred our ownership interest in Morgans food and beverage operations to the hotel owner by terminating our operating lease for the restaurant space.
Managed Operations
We manage hotels and food and beverage venues, pursuant to management agreements of varying terms. At December 31, 2011, we had four Joint Venture Hotels and six Managed Hotels, all of which we manage pursuant to long-term management agreements, as more fully described below.
Joint Venture Hotels
Mondrian South Beach. In December 2008, we along with our joint venture partner, an affiliate of Crescent Heights, opened Mondrian South Beach. The hotel has 328 hotel residences consisting of studios, one-and two-bedroom apartments, and four tower suites. The hotel features an Asia de Cuba restaurant and Sunset Lounge and a 4,000 square-foot spa. As of December 31, 2011, 157 hotel residences have been sold, of which 82 of these sold residences are in the hotel rental pool.
The joint venture is in the process of selling units as condominiums, subject to market conditions, and unit buyers will have the opportunity to place their units into the hotel’s rental program. In addition to hotel management fees, we could also realize fees from the sale of condominium units.
We own a 50% equity interest in the Mondrian South Beach joint venture. The hotel is subject to mortgage indebtedness, as more fully described under “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements.”
We operate the hotel under a 20-year management agreement, which expires in August 2026.
Shore Club. Opened in 2001, Shore Club has 309 rooms including 67 suites, seven duplex bungalows with private outdoor showers and dining areas, executive suites, an expansive penthouse suite encompassing 6,000 square feet and spanning three floors with a private elevator and private terrace, pool and panoramic views of Miami. Shore Club offers on-site access to restaurants and bars such as Nobu, Terrazza and Skybar.
We operate Shore Club under a management contract and owned a minority interest of approximately 7% at December 31, 2011. The hotel is subject to mortgage indebtedness, as more fully described under “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements.” In March 2010, the lender for the Shore Club mortgage initiated foreclosure proceedings against the property in U.S. federal district court. In October 2010, the federal court dismissed the case for lack of jurisdiction. In November 2010, the lender initiated foreclosure proceedings in state court. We continue to operate the hotel pursuant to the management agreement during these proceedings. However, there can be no assurances we will continue to operate the hotel once foreclosure proceedings are complete.
We operate the hotel under a 20-year management agreement, which expires in August 2022, although there can be no assurances that we will operate the hotel for the full term of our management agreement once foreclosure proceedings are complete, as discussed above.
Ames. In November 2009, we along with our joint venture partner, Normandy Real Estate Partners, opened Ames in Boston. Located near historic Faneuil Hall and Beacon Hill, the 114 room Boston hotel features Woodward, a new restaurant-bar concept for Ames, which offers premiere quality food and drink.
We owned an approximately 31% equity interest in the Ames joint venture as of December 31, 2011. The hotel is subject to mortgage indebtedness, as more fully described under “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Off- Balance Sheet Arrangements.”
We operate Ames under a 15-year management agreement, which expires in November 2024.
Mondrian SoHo. In February 2011, we opened Mondrian SoHo in the SoHo neighborhood of New York City. The 263 room hotel features stunning views of Manhattan, Imperial No. Nine-a modern sustainable seafood restaurant and Mister H-an intimate downtown lounge.
We owned an approximately 20% equity interest in the Mondrian SoHo joint venture as of December 31, 2011. The hotel is subject to mortgage indebtedness, as more fully described under “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Off- Balance Sheet Arrangements.”
We operate Mondrian SoHo under a 10-year management agreement, with two 10-year extensions at our option, subject to certain conditions.
Managed Hotels
Royalton. Opened in 1988, Royalton is located in the heart of midtown Manhattan, steps away from Times Square, Fifth Avenue shopping and the Broadway Theater District. Royalton was renovated during 2007 and has 168 rooms and suites, 37 of which feature working fireplaces. Royalton features a bar and restaurant, Forty Four, which opened in October 2010 after renovation and re-concepting, and three unique penthouses with terraces offering views of midtown Manhattan.
In May 2011, we sold our ownership interest in Royalton to FelCor for $88.2 million as more fully described under “Business -2011 and Other Recent Transactions and Developments.”
We operate Royalton under a 15-year management agreement with one 10-year extension option at our option, subject to certain conditions.
Morgans. Opened in 1984, Morgans was the first Morgans Group hotel. Morgans has 114 rooms, including 30 suites, and is situated in midtown Manhattan’s fashionable East Side, offering guests a residential neighborhood within midtown Manhattan and walking distance of the midtown business district, Fifth Avenue shopping and Times Square. Morgans features the Penthouse, a duplex that is used for special functions. Morgans is currently undergoing a renovation and re-concepting of the hotel’s restaurant space to create a lounge and restaurant expected to open in the first half of 2012.
In May 2011, we sold our ownership interest in Morgans to FelCor for $51.8 million as more fully described under “Business -2011 and Other Recent Transactions and Developments.” Effective February 1, 2012, we transferred our ownership interest in Morgans food and beverage operations to the hotel owner by terminating our operating lease for the restaurant space.
We operate Morgans under a 15-year management agreement with one 10-year extension option at our option, subject to certain conditions.
Mondrian Los Angeles. Acquired in 1996 and renovated in 2008, Mondrian Los Angeles has 237 guest rooms, studios and suites. The hotel is located on Sunset Boulevard in close proximity to Beverly Hills, Hollywood and the downtown Los Angeles business district. Mondrian Los Angeles’ accommodations also feature a two bedroom, 2,025 square foot penthouse and an apartment, each of which has an expansive terrace affording city-wide views. The hotel features the Asia de Cuba restaurant, Skybar, ADCB lounge, Outdoor Living Room and Agua Spa.
In May 2011, we sold our ownership interest in Mondrian Los Angeles to Pebblebrook for $103.5 million as more fully described under “Business -2011 and Other Recent Transactions and Developments.”
We operate Mondrian Los Angeles under a 20-year management agreement with one 10-year extension option at our option.
Sanderson. Opened in 2000, Sanderson has 150 guestrooms and suites, seven with private terraces and 18 suites, including a luxury penthouse and apartment. The hotel is located in London’s Soho district, within walking distance of Trafalgar Square, Leicester Square and the West End business district. Dining and bar offerings include Suka restaurant, Long Bar and the Purple Bar. Other amenities include the Courtyard Garden, the Billiard Room, and Agua Spa.
In November 2011, we and our joint venture partner, Walton MG London, sold our respective 50% equity interests in the joint venture that owned the Sanderson and St Martins Lane hotels for an aggregate of £192 million (or approximately $297 million) to Capital Hills Hotels Limited, a Middle Eastern investor, as more fully described under “Business -2011 and Other Recent Transactions and Developments.”
We continue to operate Sanderson under a long-term management agreement that, including extension options, extend the term of the existing management agreement to 2041 from 2027.
St Martins Lane. Opened in 1999, St Martins Lane has 204 guestrooms and suites, including 16 rooms with private patio gardens, and a loft-style luxury penthouse and apartment with expansive views of London. The renovated 1960s building is located in the hub of Covent Garden and the West End theatre district, within walking distance of Trafalgar Square, Leicester Square and the London business district. St Martins Lane features Asia de Cuba Restaurant, the Light Bar, and Gymbox, a state-of- the-art gym operated by a third party under a lease agreement.
In November 2011, we and our joint venture partner, Walton MG London, sold our respective 50% equity interests in the joint venture that owned the Sanderson and St Martins Lane hotels for an aggregate of £192 million (or approximately $297 million) to Capital Hills Hotels Limited, a Middle Eastern investor, as more fully described under “Business -2011 and Other Recent Transactions and Developments.”
We continue to operate St Martins Lane under a long-term management agreement that, including extension options, extend the term of the existing management agreement to 2041 from 2027.
Las Palapas. On December 15, 2009, we began managing Hotel Las Palapas, a 75-key beachfront hotel located in Playa del Carmen, Riviera Maya, Mexico, pursuant to a five-year management agreement with one five-year renewal option. Hotel Las Palapas is owned by affiliates of Walton Street. The hotel, with its magnificent beach of white sand, is centrally located on the 5th Avenue of Playa del Carmen, famous for its numerous restaurants, bars and small shops. Walton Street plans to convert the site into a Morgans Hotel Group branded hotel when economic conditions improve. We are operating Hotel Las Palapas as a separate independent hotel pending re-development into a Morgans Hotel Group branded property.
Managed Food and Beverage
We own a 90% controlling investment in TLG, a leading lifestyle food and beverage management company, which operates numerous venues in Las Vegas pursuant to management agreements with MGM. The primary assets of TLG consist of its management and similar agreements with various MGM affiliates. Each of TLG’s venues is managed by an affiliate of TLG, which receives revenue based on a fee sharing arrangement. Through our ownership of TLG, we recognize management fees in accordance with the applicable management agreement which generally provide for base management fees as a percentage of Gross Sales, as defined, and incentive management fees as a percentage of Net Profits, as defined.
TLG owns the trade name, service mark or other intellectual property rights associated with the name of most of its nightclubs, lounges, restaurants and pools.
TLG’s management agreements are typically structured as 10-year initial term contracts (effective the opening date of each respective venue) with renewal options, as detailed in the table below. As of December 31, 2011, TLG manages the following venues:
Under TLG’s management agreements, all costs associated with the construction, build-out, FF&E, operating supplies, equipment and daily operational expenses are borne by each respective MGM affiliate.
TLG’s management agreements may be subject to early termination in specified circumstances. For example, all of the management agreements contain, among other covenants, a performance test that stipulates a minimum level of operating performance, and restrictions as to certain requirements of suitability, capacity, compliance with laws and material terms, financial stability, and that certain named representatives must remain employed by or under contract to TLG.
ITEM 3.