ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
Our Hotel Properties
Set forth below is a summary of certain information related to our Morgans Hotel Group hotel properties as of December 31, 2013:
(1) Average daily rate (“ADR”)
(2) Average daily occupancy
(3) Revenue per available room (“RevPAR”) is the product of ADR and average daily occupancy. RevPAR does not include food and beverage revenues or other hotel operations revenues such as telephone, parking and other guest services.
(4) We own 100% of Hudson through its subsidiary, Henry Hudson Holdings LLC, which is part of a property that is structured as a condominium, in which Hudson constitutes 96% of the square footage of the entire building. As of December 31, 2013, Hudson has 866 guest rooms and 67 SROs. Each SRO is for occupancy by a single eligible individual. The unit need not, but may, contain food preparation or sanitary facilities, or both. SROs remain from the prior ownership of the building and we are by statute required to maintain these long-term tenants, unless we get their consent, as long as they pay us their rent. Certain of our subsidiaries, including Henry Hudson Holdings LLC, Hudson Leaseco LLC, the lessee of our Hudson hotel, and certain related entities and lessees are required by the terms of the non-recourse indebtedness related to Hudson to maintain their status as “single purpose entities.” As such, their assets, which are included in our consolidated financial statements, are not available to satisfy the indebtedness or other obligations of our other subsidiaries.
(5) Clift is operated under a long-term lease, which is accounted for as a financing.
(6) Owned Comparable Hotels includes all hotels that we owned and operate, except for hotels added or under major renovation during the current or the prior year, development projects and discontinued operations. Owned Comparable Hotels for the year ended December 31, 2013 includes Delano South Beach and Clift. Hudson is non-comparable during the period presented, as beginning in the fourth quarter of 2011 and continuing into 2012, this owned hotel was under renovation.
(7) Operated as a condominium hotel under a management contract and owned through a 50/50 unconsolidated joint venture. As of December 31, 2013, 235 hotel residences have been sold, of which 125 are in the hotel rental pool and are included in the hotel room count, and 100 hotel residences remain to be sold.
(8) Operated under a management contract and owned through an unconsolidated joint venture in which we held a minority ownership interest of approximately 20% at December 31, 2013.
(9) Operated under a management contract. Until December 30, 2013, we held a minority ownership interest of approximately 7% and accounted for the hotel as an unconsolidated joint venture. As of December 31, 2013, we have an immaterial contingent profit participation equity interest in Shore Club.
(10) Joint Venture Comparable Hotels include all hotels that we operate in which we have a non-controlling ownership interest except for hotels added or under major renovation during the current or the prior year, development projects and discontinued operations. Joint Venture Comparable Hotels for the year ended December 31, 2013 includes Mondrian South Beach and Mondrian SoHo.
(11) Operated under a management contract.
(12) Operated under a management contract. The currency translation is based on an exchange rate of 1 British pound = 1.56 U.S. dollars, which is an average monthly exchange rate provided by www.oanda.com for the last twelve months ended December 31, 2013.
(13) Managed Comparable Hotels include all Morgans Hotel Group hotels that we operate in which we have no ownership interest, except for hotels added or under major renovation during the current or the prior year, development projects and discontinued operations. Managed Comparable Hotels for the year ended December 31, 2013 includes Morgans, Royalton, Shore Club, Mondrian Los Angeles, St Martins Lane, and Sanderson. The currency translation is based on an exchange rate of 1 British pound = 1.56 U.S. dollars, which is an average monthly exchange rate provided by www.oanda.com for the last twelve months ended December 31, 2013.
(14) System-Wide Comparable Hotels includes all Morgans Hotel Group hotels that we operate except for hotels added or under major renovation during the current or the prior year, development projects and discontinued operations. System-Wide Comparable Hotels for the year ended December 31, 2013 excludes Hudson, which was undergoing renovation beginning in the fourth quarter of 2011 and continuing into 2012. The currency translation is based on an exchange rate of 1 British pound = 1.56 U.S. dollars, which is an average monthly exchange rate provided by www.oanda.com for the last twelve months ended December 31, 2013.
(15) Northeast Comparable Hotels includes all hotels that we operate in the Northeastern United States, except for hotels added or under major renovation during the current or the prior year, development projects and discontinued operations. Northeast Comparable Hotels for the year ended December 31, 2013 includes Morgans, Royalton, and Mondrian SoHo. Hudson is non-comparable during the period presented, as Hudson was under major renovation beginning the fourth quarter of 2011 and continuing throughout 2012.
(16) West Coast Comparable Hotels includes all hotels that we operate on the Western coast of the United States except for hotels added or under major renovation during the current or the prior year, development projects and discontinued operations. West Coast Comparable Hotels for the year ended December 31, 2013 includes Mondrian Los Angeles and Clift.
(17) Miami Comparable Hotels includes all hotels that we operate in the Miami area of Florida, except for hotels added or under major renovation during the current or the prior year, development projects and discontinued operations. Miami Comparable Hotels for the year ended December 31, 2013 includes Delano South Beach, Shore Club and Mondrian South Beach.
(18) United States Comparable Hotels includes all hotels that we operate in the United States, except for hotels added or under major renovation during the current or the prior year, development projects and discontinued operations. United States Comparable Hotels for the year ended December 31, 2013 includes Morgans, Royalton, Mondrian SoHo, Mondrian Los Angeles, Clift, Delano South Beach, Mondrian South Beach and Shore Club. Hudson is non-comparable during the period presented, as Hudson was under major renovations beginning the fourth quarter of 2011 and continuing throughout 2012.
(19) International Comparable Hotels includes hotels that we operate in international locations outside of the United States, except for hotels added or under major renovation during the current or the prior year, development projects and discontinued operations. International Comparable Hotels for the year ended December 31, 2013 includes St Martins Lane and Sanderson. The currency translation is based on an exchange rate of 1 British pound = 1.56 U.S. dollars, which is an average monthly exchange rate provided by www.oanda.com for the last twelve months ended December 31, 2013.
Owned Operations
Owned Hotels
The tables below reflect the results of operations of our Owned Hotel properties.
Hudson
Overview
Opened in 2000, Hudson is our largest New York City hotel, with 866 guest rooms and suites, as of December 31, 2013, including two ultra-luxurious accommodations - a 3,355 square foot penthouse with a landscaped terrace and an apartment with a 2,500 square foot tented terrace. The hotel, located only a few blocks away from Columbus Circle, Time Warner Center and Central Park, has numerous food and beverage offerings including Hudson Common, Henry, Tequila Park, Hudson Lodge, Library Bar and Sky Terrace.
We spent most of 2012 renovating all the guest rooms and corridors and converting SRO units into new guest rooms. The renovation was completed in September 2012 and the conversion of 32 SRO units into guest rooms was completed in January 2013, bringing the total number of guest rooms at Hudson to 866 as of December 31, 2013. In November 2012, we launched Hudson Lodge, a winter pop-up venue at the hotel’s private park. Additionally, in February 2013, we opened a new restaurant at Hudson, Hudson Commons, which is a modern-day beer hall and burger joint featuring a wide selection of local craft beers, inventive preparations of classic American fare, and soda shop-inspired specialty cocktails. The primary bar, Henry, opened in September 2013 after reconcepting and renovation. Henry is a cocktail bar and lounge featuring an inventive and experimental mixology program at Hudson.
We own 100% of Hudson, which is part of a property that is structured as a condominium, in which Hudson constitutes 96% of the square footage of the entire building. Hudson has a total of 928 rooms, comprised of 866 guest rooms and 67 SROs as of December 31, 2013. SROs are single room dwelling units. In 2014, we plan to convert an additional nine SRO units into 11 new guest rooms. We anticipate these 11 new guestrooms will be completed in the second quarter of 2014 and once completed, will increase the room count at Hudson to 877. As part of the Hudson/Delano 2014 Mortgage Loan, we are required to convert a minimum number of SRO units into ten guestrooms by September 30, 2014.
Each SRO is for occupancy by a single eligible individual. The unit need not, but may, contain food preparation or sanitary facilities, or both. SROs remain from the prior ownership of the building and we are by statute required to maintain these long-term tenants, unless we get their consent to terminate the lease, as long as they pay us their rent. Over time, we intend to develop new guest rooms from the remaining rooms that were formerly SRO units. We own a fee simple interest in Hudson. The hotel is subject to mortgage and mezzanine indebtedness as more fully described under “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Debt.”
Selected Financial and Operating Information
The following table shows selected financial and operating information for Hudson:
(1) Hudson was under major renovations beginning in late 2011, throughout 2012, and was concluded in 2013.
Delano South Beach
Overview
Opened in 1995, Delano South Beach has 194 guest rooms, suites and lofts and is located in the heart of Miami Beach’s fashionable South Beach Art Deco district. The hotel features an “indoor/outdoor” lobby, the Water Salon and Orchard (which is Delano South Beach’s landscaped orchard and 100-foot long pool) and beach facilities. The hotel’s accommodations also include eight poolside bungalows and a penthouse and apartment. Delano South Beach’s food and beverage offerings were renovated and reconcepted in 2011 and include the restaurant, Bianca, which opened in January 2012, Delano Beach Club, a poolside bar and bistro, the Rose Bar, FDR, a nightclub which opened in February 2012, and Umi Sushi & Sake Bar, which also opened in February 2012. The hotel also features Club Essentia Wellness Retreat, a full-service spa facility providing preventative aging procedures focusing on the augmentation and restoration of one’s energy, vitality and vigor. Delano South Beach also offers multi-service meeting facilities, consisting of one executive boardroom and other facilities including a state-of-the-art media room.
In late 2011 and in early 2012, we spent approximately $13.0 million on projects at Delano South Beach to upgrade the exclusive bungalows and suites, improve public areas, including the pool, restaurant and bar space, and create additional meeting space. This work was begun in the third quarter of 2011 and was completed in the first quarter of 2012.
We own a fee simple interest in Delano South Beach. The hotel is subject to mortgage and mezzanine indebtedness as more fully described under “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Debt.”
Selected Financial and Operating Information
The following table shows selected financial and operating information for Delano South Beach:
Clift
Overview
Acquired in 1999 and reopened after an extensive renovation in 2001, Clift has 372 guestrooms and suites and is located in the heart of San Francisco’s Union Square district. The hotel features a restaurant, The Velvet Room, the Redwood Room Bar and the Living Room, which is available for private events. Clift also offers multi-service meeting facilities, consisting of two executive boardrooms, one suite and other facilities. Clift was last renovated in 2001 and the property may need to be renovated in the future.
Our rights to operate Clift in San Francisco are based upon our interest under a 99-year lease. The lease is accounted for as a financing as more fully described under “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Debt.”
Selected Financial and Operating Information
The following table shows selected financial and operating information for Clift:
Owned Food and Beverage Operations
As of December 31, 2013, our Owned F&B Operations consisted of certain food and beverage operations located at our Owned Hotels and Sanderson and St Martins Lane, both in London, and three restaurants at Mandalay Bay in Las Vegas for which we acquired the leasehold interests in August 2012. We operate all of our Owned F&B Operations, with the exception of the Owned F&B Operations at St Martins Lane, which are managed by affiliates of China Grill Management Inc. (“CGM”) pursuant to a short-term management agreement.
In August 2012, we acquired the leasehold interests in three restaurants at Mandalay Bay from an existing tenant for $15.0 million in cash at closing and a $10.6 million principal only promissory note to be paid over seven years. The restaurants were renovated and reconcepted following the transaction. In December 2012, we opened Red Square, a premier dinner, cocktail, and nightlife destination, in January 2013, we opened Citizens Kitchen & Bar, which offers classic American comfort food, and in July 2013, we opened Kumi Japanese Restaurant & Bar, with a modern Japanese menu with a Korean American twist. The venues are managed by TLG and operated pursuant to 10-year operating leases with an MGM affiliate, pursuant to which we pay minimum annual lease payments of $0.2 million a year and a percentage rent based on cash flow.
Managed Operations
We manage hotels and food and beverage venues, pursuant to management agreements of varying terms.
Managed Hotels
Our Joint Venture Hotels as of December 31, 2013 are operated under management agreements which expire as follows:
•
Mondrian South Beach - August 2026; and
•
Mondrian SoHo - February 2021 (with two 10-year extensions at our option, subject to certain conditions).
We are subject to ongoing litigation with our joint venture partner and the lender at Mondrian SoHo, as fully described under “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity.” As a result, no assurance can be provided that we will retain the management agreement for Mondrian SoHo.
Our Managed Hotels as of December 31, 2013 are operated under management agreements which expire as follows:
•
Shore Club - July 2022;
•
Mondrian Los Angeles - May 2031 (with one 10-year extension at our option);
•
Royalton - May 2026 (with one 10-year extension at our option, subject to certain conditions);
•
Morgans - May 2026 (with one 10-year extension at our option, subject to certain conditions);
•
Sanderson - June 2018 (with one 10-year extension at our option); and
•
St Martins Lane - June 2018 (with one 10-year extension at our option).
On December 30, 2013, Shore Club was sold to HFZ Capital Group. The new owner has publicly stated that it may convert a substantial part of the hotel to condos, and we could be replaced as hotel manager. To date, we have received no notice of termination of our management agreement, and intend to continue to operate the hotel pursuant to that agreement. However, no assurance can be provided that we will continue to do so in the future, as discussed further in note 5 of the consolidated financial statements.
We have also signed management, license or franchise agreements for various other hotels. As of December 31, 2013, these development stage hotels included the following:
(1) License or franchise agreements.
However, financing has not been obtained for the hotel projects listed under “Other Signed Agreements” above, and there can be no assurances that any or all of our development stage hotel projects will be developed as planned. If adequate project financing is not obtained, these projects may need to be limited in scope, deferred or cancelled altogether, and to the extent we have previously funded key money, an equity investment or debt financing on a cancelled project, we may be unable to recover the amounts funded. For example, due to our joint venture partner’s failure to achieve certain agreed milestones in the development of the hotel, in early 2014, we exercised a put option under our Mondrian Istanbul joint venture agreement that requires our joint venture partner to buy back our equity interests in the Mondrian Istanbul joint venture. Our rights under that joint venture agreement are secured by, among other things, a mortgage on the property. In February 2014, we issued a notice of default to our joint venture partner, as they failed to buy back our equity interests by the contractual deadline, and further notified our joint venture partner that we plan to begin foreclosure proceedings as a result of the event of default. We do not currently anticipate that these proceeding will have an impact on our management agreement should the hotel development continue.
Our hotel management agreements may be subject to early termination in specified circumstances. For example, certain of our hotel management agreements contain performance tests that stipulate certain minimum levels of operating performance. In addition, some courts have applied principles of agency law and related fiduciary standards to managers of third-party hotel properties (or have interpreted hotel management agreements as “personal services contracts”). This means, among other things, that property owners may assert the right to terminate management agreements even where the agreements provide otherwise, and some courts have upheld such assertions regarding management agreements and may do so in the future. Several of our hotels are also subject to mortgage and mezzanine debt, and in some instances our management fee is subordinated to the debt. With all of our new management agreements for hotels under development, we attempt to negotiate non-disturbance agreements or similar protections with the mortgage lender, or to require that such agreements be entered into upon securing of financing, in order to protect our management agreements in the event of foreclosure. However, we are not always successful in imposing these requirements and some of our new development projects and existing hotels do not have non-disturbance or similar protections, which may make the related management agreements subject to termination by the lenders on foreclosure or certain other related events. Even if we have such non-disturbance protections in place, they may be subject to conditions and may be difficult or costly to enforce in a foreclosure situation. See, for example “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements - Mondrian SoHo and - Shore Club.”
Managed Food and Beverage
We own a 90% controlling investment in TLG, a leading lifestyle food and beverage management company, which primarily operates numerous venues in Las Vegas pursuant to management agreements with various MGM affiliates. Additionally, TLG manages the food and beverage operations at Delano South Beach, including Bianca, a restaurant serving Italian cuisine, FDR, the nightclub, and Delano Beach Club, the poolside bistro and bar.
The primary assets of TLG consist of its management and similar agreements with various MGM affiliates. Each of TLG’s venues is managed by an affiliate of TLG. Through our ownership of TLG, we recognize management fees in accordance with the applicable management agreement which generally provide for base management fees as a percentage of gross sales, and incentive management fees as a percentage of net profits, as calculated pursuant to the management agreements.
TLG owns the trade name, service mark and other intellectual property rights associated with the name of most of its nightclubs, lounges, restaurants and pools.
TLG’s management agreements with various MGM affiliates are typically structured as 10-year initial term contracts (effective the opening date of each respective venue) with two five-year renewal options, subject to certain conditions. As of December 31, 2013, TLG manages the following venues pursuant to management agreements with various MGM affiliates:
(1) TLG’s management agreement will terminate on April 1, 2014, as discussed below.
Under TLG’s management agreements with various affiliates of MGM, all costs associated with the construction, build-out, FF&E, operating supplies, equipment and daily operational expenses are generally borne by the owner or the lessor of the venue.
These management agreements may be subject to early termination in specified circumstances. For example, the management agreements generally contain, among other covenants, a performance test that stipulates a minimum level of operating performance, and restrictions as to certain requirements of suitability, capacity, compliance with laws and material terms, financial stability, and certain of the management agreements require that certain named representatives, including Andy Masi, must remain employed by or under contract to TLG. We were recently engaged in a lawsuit with Mr. Masi, as fully described in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity.” Additionally, in 2013, we failed performance tests at certain venues, and as a result, we agreed with MGM to a change in the calculation of base and incentive management fees for all of TLG’s management agreements with MGM effective January 1, 2014, and agreed to a termination effective April 1, 2014 of TLG’s management agreement for Brand Steakhouse.
In August 2012, we acquired the leasehold interests in three restaurants at Mandalay Bay from an existing tenant for $15.0 million in cash at closing and a $10.6 million principal only promissory note to be paid over seven years. The restaurants were renovated and reconcepted following the transaction. In December 2012, we opened Red Square, in January 2013, we opened Citizens Kitchen & Bar, and in July 2013, we opened Kumi Japanese Restaurant & Bar. The venues are managed by TLG and operated pursuant to 10-year operating leases with an MGM affiliate, pursuant to which we pay minimum annual lease payments of $0.2 million a year and a percentage rent based on cash flow.
ITEM 3.