Item 2. Properties
SAN MIGUEL PROJECT, MEXICO
Our exploratory activities are concentrated within the San Miguel Groupings which comprise the San Miguel Project.
Property Description and Location
Location
The San Miguel Project is located in southwestern Chihuahua in Northern Mexico, approximately 400 km by road from the state capital of Chihuahua City. The project is about 20 km north of the town of Temoris, adjacent to the village of Guazapares. It is in the Guazapares mining district, which is part of the Sierra Madre Occidental gold-silver belt. The location of the San Miguel Project is shown in Figure 1.
Mineral Claim Area
The San Miguel project originally consisted of 17 smaller concessions clustered near Guazapares, Chihuahua with a total area of 427 hectares, plus the much larger Andrea, Gissel and Isabel concessions which were staked in 2008, the Elyca concession which was acquired in 2008, and a joint venture agreement that had been signed with Garibaldi Resources Corporation as part of a district wide exploration program.
Since November 2008, there have been significant additions to the San Miguel project concessions. In March 2009 we acquired from Garibaldi all of their interest in several mining concession totalling approximately 54,000 hectares Pursuant to the agreement Paramount paid Garibaldi a total of $400,000 in cash and issued 6 million shares of Paramount’s common stock. A map of the new Temoris project is set forth below.
Also in March 2009, Paramount acquired all of the issued and outstanding shares of stock of Magnetic Resources Ltd. Magnetic was the sole beneficial shareholder of Minera Gama which was the underlying concession holder of Garibaldi’s Temoris Project, as well as two other groups of concessions which are not in the San Miguel area - the Morelos grassroots exploration and Iris royalty projects. In addition, Paramount purchased from Mexoro Minerals Ltd., and its Mexican subsidiary, Sunburst Mining de Mexico, S.A. de C.V., to acquire its interest to the Guazapares concession group adjacent to Paramount’s San Miguel group subject to certain net smelter return royalties for a purchase price of $3.7 million. The property is comprised of approximately 2000 hectares.
San Miguel Concessions Including the Temoris Project
The following table outlines our concessions within the San Miguel Project:
San Miguel Project Concession Data
(*) Under option
Current Agreements with respect to mining concessions:
Guazapares
Paramount’s Mexican subsidiary acquired the Guazapares claims from the Mexican subsidiary of Mexoro Minerals subject to future option payments and a retained NSR.
Temoris
On January 30, 2009, we closed on our agreement with Garibaldi whereby Garibaldi assigned its option in the Temoris Concession to Paramount. In consideration for the assignment of the Temoris option, Paramount paid Garibaldi a total of $400,000 in cash and issued to Garibaldi 6 million shares of our common stock. Subsequent to the purchase of Magnetic Resources as noted above, Paramount terminated the option agreement.
Ejido Agreements
We have signed agreements with two ejidos, or surface-owner councils, allowing for surface disturbance during exploration activities on Paramount’s concessions. Agreements with the Guazapares and Batosegachi ejidos were re-signed in April 2011, and are effective for a period of five years. The Guazapares and Batosegachi ejido agreements are registered with the National Agrarian Registry. The agreements permit Paramount to carry out exploration on the ejidos’ areas in exchange for compensation of a fixed sum per hectare of physical disturbance associated with exploration such as the cutting of trees and construction of drill access roads and drill pads, etc. In April 2010, we signed an agreement with an additional Ejido covering the newly purchased concessions.
Community Involvement
Several rural communities are located within our work area, the most important of which are Temoris, Guazapares, Batosegachi, San José and Tahonitas. In keeping with our policy of community integration, Paramount has carried out a program of economic and other assistance, including: donations of materials and wages for construction projects at schools in Guazapares, San Jose and Temoris; a donation for the acquisition of computers for the regional junior high school; donation to DIF, the organization for integral family development in Temoris; construction materials for DIF, for the construction of houses for disadvantaged families; donation for purchase of fertilizer for the farmers of Batosegachi; financial assistance for the upgrading and maintenance of local roads utilized by Paramount to access the San Miguel Project in Guazapares and Batosegachi ejidos; and the creation of up to 40 jobs.
Environmental Reports and Liabilities:
With the assistance of a Mexican environmental permitting consultant, Vugalit S.C., Paramount has satisfied the requirements regarding permitting for the ongoing exploration program with the office of the Mexican governmental environmental agency, SEMARNAT, in Chihuahua City. Disturbance associated with exploration work completed by Paramount to date is limited to construction of drill access roads, drill pads and trenches. No direct mining related activities have been carried out.
On Paramount’s behalf, Vugalit S.C submitted a NOM-120-SEMARNAT-1997 application to SEMARNAT on March 15, 2007 to permit exploration activities at the San Miguel Project. The application was accepted and became effective on July 19, 2007. The permit allows a total disturbance of 7.6224 hectares valid to December 31, 2011. The permit provides for reclamation of the concession areas by the Fondo Forestal Mexicano following the cessation of exploration activities in the permit area. The permit set the cost of reclamation at a total of 198,205 Mexican pesos, which was paid by Paramount to Fondo Forestal Mexicano.
Through our wholly owned Mexican subsidiary, we have been granted mineral claims which grant us exclusive exploration and exploitation rights. Mexican mining claims are valid for an initial 25 year term with one renewable term for 25 years. Exploration claims grant the automatic right to disturb the surface to conduct exploratory work such as drilling. Permits are automatically granted once rights have been issued together with the payment of nominal fees. Exploitation, mine development and construction requires the approval of various levels of local government in Mexico. However, this is not under consideration by Paramount at this time. Access to the properties are by agreement by the owner or local community and are typically granted for a nominal fee.
Vugalit S.C also filed an Environmental Impact Study with SEMARNAT on behalf of Paramount.
With these exceptions, there has been no mining activity on the San Miguel concessions since the early 1900’s. Between 1958 and 1968, Alaska-Juneau operated the San Luis mine and mill, producing waste rock and tailings. In the late 1970’s, a few thousand tons of vein material were shipped from the San Miguel vein to El Paso as smelter flux. In the 1990’s a very small and unsuccessful attempt was made to heap leach oxidized silver ores near the north end of the La Union area. It is uncertain whether Paramount would be held responsible for the cleanup of these areas should it put a mine into production nearby.
Excepting the work that was carried out as part of the Environmental Impact Study, we have as not yet conducted any baseline environmental studies, such as surface or groundwater sampling, of the San Miguel Project area. We believe such studies should be conducted to document any residual effects that the historic mining activities may still be having on the soils and streams of the Guazapares area.
The village of Guazapares is immediately adjacent to the historic San Luis mine area and is also adjacent other Paramount exploration targets. The village of Batosegachi is less than a kilometer from the San Miguel exploration area. While the local people appear to be supportive of our current exploration efforts, it is not known what financial or time-related impacts to the permitting of a mining operation, if any, the close proximity to these villages might create.
Accessibility, Climate, Local Resources, Infrastructure and Physiography
Access:
Direct access to San Miguel is by the paved highway 127 to the town of Creel, then by reasonably good gravel roads to Temoris and then Guazapares. The simplest way for a visitor to reach Temoris is via the Chihuahua-Pacific rail service between Chihuahua City and Temoris, a nine hour trip. Two passenger trains in each direction and several freight trains serve Temoris and Los Mochis on the pacific coast daily. From the Temoris train station to the village of Guazapares the drive is about 15 minutes by a winding gravel road. In August we received approval from SEMARNAT to expand our drilling activities to new project areas.
Climate:
The Temoris area has a temperate climate. Undisturbed slopes are covered by juniper-pine-oak forests. Rainfall is largely in the summer months, with an annual average of about 8 cm. Maximum temperatures rarely exceed 35°C, and minimum temperatures are rarely less than 5o C. The average elevation in the vicinity of Guazapares is 1,600 meters. While there can occasionally be snow or heavy rains, it is anticipated that exploration work or mining can continue throughout the year.
Local Resources, Infrastructure:
The Temoris area has reasonably good local infrastructure and a workforce generally receptive to mining. Temoris and Chinipas have populations of approximately 1,500 people , 200 of which live in the village of Guazapares, and there are several smaller villages in the general area. The total available workforce of the area may approach 5,000 people.
A new electric power line is now reaching Guazapares for the first time. While it is adequate for home use, it will not be adequate for mineral processing. Management believes that future feasibility studies of potential mineral production and processing must consider either upgrading the power line or generating power on site.
It would appear that local streams and groundwater should suffice. They were adequate for underground mining by the Alaska-Juneau Company in 1960, and water abundance was a problem in the deeper workings.
As noted above the Chihuahua-Pacific railway connects Temoris to Los Mochis on the Pacific side and to Chihuahua on the east. This would provide convenient access for shipping of supplies and personnel. The gravel road from Temoris to Guazapares will require some improvement for mine access. There is an airstrip suitable for light aircraft at Temoris. While much of the region is deeply incised by stream drainages, the immediate area of Guazapares has relatively gentle topography, with several areas sufficiently level for construction of processing sites.
As an exploration company with no active mines under development or operating, we have relied on a series of public and temporary roads to access our properties.
Physiography:
Paramount’s San Miguel project is near the center of the Sierra Madre Occidental range. This range is actually a relatively structurally undisturbed plateau composed of nearly flat-lying Tertiary volcanic rocks. This plateau is generally deeply incised, with many steeply walled canyons and small, relatively level, plateau remnants between them. The San Miguel project area explored to date occupies one of these more level areas. To the west the volcanic plateau is bounded by an extensional terrane, which represents the southern continuation of the basin and range province of the western USA.
The terrain is often hilly to steeply mountainous. It is generally covered with pinyon-juniper-oak forests where not cleared for agriculture. More gently sloping areas are used for small vegetable and corn plots and the grazing of cattle.
History
Pre-Paramount Mining and Exploration History:
The center of the San Miguel Project is in the Guazapares mining district. The town of Guazapares was founded in 1620 along with a Jesuit mission. The first recorded mining activity was in 1677. Small-scale mining apparently continued throughout the Spanish colonial period. The Guazapares quartz breccia-veins were being developed by 1830, but the major period of older production took place between 1870 and 1900. During this period four pan amalgamation mills were in production to treat oxidized ores. Very little gold was recovered due to the limitations of the process. A note in a recent report by Minera Rio Tinto says that 400,000 tons grading 300 g/t Ag was the total production (source unknown). Workings would have been directed toward production of these oxide ores at depths less than 70 meters.
After 1905, a U.S. company (name unknown) consolidated most of the properties and reopened some of the workings, but went bankrupt during the market panic of 1907. Shortly thereafter Ramon Valenzuela acquired the main properties and ran a 5-stamp mill until 1912. At that point, Pancho Villa’s troops took the bullion and operated the mines briefly for the benefit of the revolution. Any mining in the subsequent 45 years was done on a very small scale by local prospectors.
In 1957 a company called Hilos de Plata rebuilt Valenzuela’s mill and began operating the San Luis mine, but rather ineffectively. Engineer C.W. Yetter of the Alaska-Juneau Mining Company evaluated the property in 1958. This led to its acquisition by Alaska-Juneau, who operated the mine from 1958 to 1968. During this period the San Luis ore was exploited by a 270 meter inclined shaft and processed in a 150 tons per day floatation mill. Production records are being sought, but are not available at this time. At 1960’s metal prices, the mined grades must have been quite high by today’s standards. The author had access to one longitudinal section of the principal San Luis vein, drawn by Alaska-Juneau, showing 71 face samples in several stopes. A weighted average of these samples was 155.6 g/t Ag and 144 g/t Au. There were no lead and zinc assays noted, although both are apparent in the workings.
ASARCO LLC is reported to have drilled 15 core holes in the 1950’s in the San Luis and San Jose mine areas, but data are fragmentary and hole locations are uncertain. In a 1976 joint venture, Earth Resources and Penoles investigated the property. They sampled most accessible workings, did grid-based geochemical sampling and drilled 3,098 feet in 39 short air-trac holes with poor sample recovery. Preliminary metallurgical testing by Hazen Research at that time stated that the mineralization would be amenable to cyanidation, floatation or probably to heap leaching. Simons Associates did much of the fieldwork for the JV, and later continued to control the property. Copies of some of their reports are available in Paramount’s files.
The Consejo de Recursos Minerales sampled parts of the underground workings in 1985 and 1988, the vestiges of which are still visible in the workings. Kennecott acquired a portion of the property in 1994, carried out surface and underground sampling, and drilled 12 RC holes for a total of 2,268 meters. Paramount has in its files sections including geology and assays for only 4 or these holes, but little other data from this work.
Minera Rio Tinto reviewed the available data and acquired large concessions to the east of the main Guazapares mineralization in 2002.
Paramount Exploration History in Mexico
As of August 31, 2008, Paramount had completed 69 trenches for a total of 3,743 meters, in the Santa Clara, La Union, San Jose, and San Antonio, El Carmen and La Veronica areas. Trenches approximately 30 inches wide were cut perpendicular to the strike of the veins with an excavator. They were cut as deep as the hardness of the rock would allow. All trenches were mapped for lithology, alteration, structural controls of mineralization and oxidation and were sampled in detail. Trench sampling was used to assist in the geological interpretation and modeling.
Also as of August 31, 2008, a total of 47,559 meters of HQ size (2.5 in) core drilling had been completed in 213 holes. All of the core has been photographed and logged in detail. Drilling was focused on the La Union, San Jose, San Luis, San Antonio, El Carmen, San Miguel and Montecristo areas.
In 2009, Paramount drilled eight core holes in the Monte Cristo area, for an additional 2,691 meters of exploration drilling, and three infill holes at the San Miguel Clavo 99 target area for 1,095 meters. In 2010 drilling has concentrated on the San Francisco target area, where 8 core holes (2,572 meters) and 13 reverse circulation holes (4,192 meters) have been drilled.
In 2010, Paramount drilled 58 core holes at the San Miguel project totaling 16,258 meters and 28 reverse circulation holes totaling 5,960 meters. The new areas of exploration included San Francisco, La Veronica and Don Ese targets with infill drilling activities focused at the San Antonio, San Francisco and San Miguel target area.
Geological Setting
Regional Geology:
The Guazapares district and the San Miguel Project are located in the western part of the Sierra Madre Occidental (“SMO”) physiographic province. The SMO is characterized by a northwest trending plateau with an average elevation exceeding 2,000 m asl, and covers an area approximately 1,200 km long and 200-400 km wide, extending southeast from the border with the United States to the Trans-Mexican Volcanic Belt.
The term “Sierra Madre Occidental” is also used to describe the Tertiary volcanic province characterized by large volumes of silicic ignimbrites. Within this context, the Sierra Madre Occidental extends beyond the boundaries of the physiographic province and includes the Mesa Central and part of eastern Chihuahua. The Sierra Madre Occidental volcanic province is one of the largest silicic igneous provinces on Earth, covering an area of approximately 300,000 km2 .
The Sierra Madre Occidental rock assemblage forms a typical calc-alkaline rhyolite suite with intermediate to high K and relatively low Fe contents. Assemblages 1 and 2 have been defined as the Lower Volcanic Complex or Lower Volcanic Series, which is composed of over 2,000 meters of predominantly andesitic volcanics, with a few interlayered ash flows and related hypabyssal intrusions. Assemblage 3 has been defined as the Upper Volcanic Supergroup or Upper Volcanic Series and comprises over 1,000 meters of rhyolitic ignimbrites and flows, with subordinate andesite, dacite, and basalt. The Upper Volcanic Supergroup uncomformably overlies the Lower Volcanic Complex. Some altered acidic intrusive bodies, often associated with mineralization may be related to early phases of this upper sequence. All the assemblages are partly superimposed and cover a heterogeneous basement of Precambrian, Paleozoic, and Mesozoic rocks locally exposed in deeply incised canyons (Ferrari et al., 2007).
Local Geology:
In the Guazapares district, regionally weakly propylitically altered andesitic rocks and lesser rhyodacitic volcanic tuffs and related hypabyssal intrusions of the Lower Volcanic Complex occur at lower elevations. Massive rhyolitic ashflow tuffs of the Eocene-Oligocene Upper Volcanic Supergroup occur on the higher ridgetops. Felsic rocks of the upper sequence are generally unmineralized. Miocene basaltic andesites and basalts locally overlie the Upper Volcanic Supergroup immediately west of the San Miguel and Empalme concessions. Nearly all the known mineralization, including all of the mineralized rock in the San Miguel Claim group, is developed in the Lower Volcanic Complex rocks.
District faults generally trend north-northwest, paralleling the regional structural setting. Silver-gold-lead-zinc mineralization at the San Miguel Project is spatially associated with these fault structures. Several rhyodacite dikes follow these fault zones and appear to be associated with mineralization.
The San Miguel Project is composed of a series of concessions that overlie a NNW district-scale fault zone. For descriptive and presentation purposes, we have broken them into geographical areas, using the names of the principal historic silver mines in each area. The main Guazapares structure has a strike length of approximately 8 kilometers and hosts the Santa Clara, La Union, San Jose, San Luis, San Antonio, El Carmen, La Veronica and Montecristo exploration areas. En echelon quartz veins, quartz-pyrite veinlet stockworks and silicified hydrothermal breccia bodies, most of which host significant gold, silver, lead and zinc mineralization, are developed within this structural zone. The zone is broken into segments by small-displacement NE trending faults. The San Miguel exploration area lies on a parallel structure approximately 3 km west of the La Veronica area. This structure referred to as the Batosegachic Fault and it hosts the San Miguel Vein.
Between the Guazapares structure and the Batosegachic Fault is a rhyolitic to rhyodacitic flow-dome complex, largely contained within the Guazapares concessions recently acquired from Mexoro, but also on several smaller concessions held by Paramount. The Monte Cristo area is at the eastern edge of that flow-dome complex. Most of the known mineralization occurs in a series of east-west, northwest and northeast trending structures within the domes and at their margins. Mineralization is primarily gold with lesser silver values. A strong northeast structural fabric may represent a deep seated structure controlling the localization of the dome complex as a whole. Localization of some of the mineralization there may be controlled by northwest trending structures with left lateral movement, sub-parallel to the Guazapares and Batosegachic faults.
Pre-1956 mining exploited near-surface, oxidized portions of the mineralized structures, producing silver and minor gold. On a district scale, the lithology, structural setting and controls of mineralization appear strongly analogous to other deposits in the general area, particularly to those at the Palmarejo deposit, approximately 15 kilometers to the west, and to Dolores, 200 kilometers on trend to the north-northwest.
SAN MIGUEL PROJECT - PRINCIPAL CONCESSIONS AND DRILLING AREAS
Santa Clara - La Union - Area Geology
There are three principal geologic units mapped in the 2.5 kilometer long area stretching from the little-explored Santa Clara area in the south to San Luis in the centre of the Guazapares district. A north-south striking, west dipping andesitic basement composed of andesitic flows and volcaniclastic rocks with a few dacitic to rhyolitic tuff horizons underlies the western portions of the area. Total thickness is unknown. To the east, a package of lithic to quartzo-feldspathic tuffs discordantly overlies the andesites and displays a north-northeast trending pseudo-stratification with dips of 15 to 40 degrees to the northwest. The fault zone separating the western andesites and the eastern tuffs is characterized by a sharp eastern margin. West of this fault plane the fault zone is complex with fault splits, and mineralized fractures particularly in the San Jose area. A dacitic dike outcrops intermittently along the contact between these two units, striking approximately N30W and dipping 50 to 70 degrees north-east.
Enveloping the fault zone is a widespread zone of propylitic alteration characterized by chloritic and argillic altered rock with locally intense silicification and associated adularia. Irregular zones of sulphide-bearing silicified breccias, quartz veins and quartz-pyrite veinlet stockworks occur within the alteration envelope. A few orientation measurements of major veins and rock fabric indicate that all the observed veins strike northwest and southeast, and dip at high angles to the east and west. Limited drilling indicates the predominant mineralized structure dips to the east. The principal sulphide minerals were pyrite, galena, sphalerite, and argentite. The vein swarms and altered poly-phase breccia bodies are cut by and surrounded by stockworks of finegrained quartz-sulphide veinlets. In the La Union area, north of the La Union mine, the stockwork zone is as much as 100 meters wide along a segment of the fault zone where it curves gently to the east.
Please note: the Santa Clara-La Union areas do not contain any known reserves and any planned drilling program is exploratory in nature.
San Miguel Area
San Miguel, Elyca and Empalme are the westernmost concessions within the San Miguel Project. The area is characterized by the southeast striking Batosegachic Fault zone that separates andesite and locally interbedded andesite tuff to the southwest from a felsic sequence of bedded tuffs to the northeast. Its strike is subparallel to the Guazapares structure, which hosts the mineralization at the rest of the San Miguel concessions 3 km to the east.
Mineralized structures at San Miguel generally strike northwest and southeast and dip steeply northeast and southwest at angles greater than 60 degrees; most dip at 70 degrees or greater. Throughout the San Miguel concession, the Batosegachic Fault strikes approximately 142 degrees and consistently dips to the southwest at approximately 80 degrees. Within the San Miguel concession it is mineralized with quartz, to at least some degree, all along its strike. The area contains historic underground workings with significant past production and numerous prospect pits. Most of the significant workings appear to be along a single quartz vein that occupies the Batosegachic Fault within the San Miguel concession.
Paramount is currently conducting an in-fill drilling program at the San Miguel area.
Please note: the San Miguel area do not contain any known reserves and any planned drilling program is exploratory in nature.
San Francisco Geology
The San Francisco area lies west of Monte Cristo - Sangre de Cristo and east of the Batosegachi fault. The geology of the San Francisco area is dominated by a complex of felsic flow domes and associated intrusions that includes rhyodacitic, dacitic, and rhyolitic domes, lavas, breccias, and dikes. Many of these units have complex interfingering or crosscutting relationships. Margins of domes are often auto-brecciated and appear to grade into related tuff aprons. Where these rocks are hydrothermally altered, some of the geolocgic units become very difficult to differentiate. This difficulty was also noted in similar rocks in the Monte Cristo - Sangre de Cristo area. Prominent fracture sets hosting veins and silicification most commonly have northeasterly, northwesterly, or east-west trends. A strong N30W-trending fault with left-lateral movement has been interpreted to be a principal control on fracturing and mineralization in the center of the flow-dome complex.
The structural intersection between northwest- and northeast-trending faults has created an intensely fractured and brecciated zone at San Francisco that hosts intrusions and precious-metal bearing quartz veins.
Please note: The San Francisco area does not contain any known reserves and any planned drilling program is exploratory in nature.
Monte Cristo Area Geology
The Monte Cristo area is at the northern end of the Guazapares mineralized structure, at its intersection with a deep-seated northeast trending structure, which may control the emplacement of the flow-dome complex exposed at Monte Cristo and on the Mexoro property immediately to the west. It is dominated by a strong NNW structure with and associated silicified breccia zone, with a strong quartz vein at the south end. This crosscuts slightly earlier northeast trending veins and silicification.
The veins and silicification are hosted by a dacite dome in the south, a feldspar porphyry and a slightly younger felsic clastic sequence in the north. Gold-silver mineralization was mined a century ago from the Sangre de Cristo vein system in the southeast and to a lesser extent from the smaller Monte Cristo veins in the west. The felsic clastic unit has been interpreted as fine to coarse volcaniclastic debris which filled a rhombic basin with structurally controlled active margins. Several pulses of gold bearing silica-rich fluids migrated up the basin margins and deposited sinter layers within the basin and cemented the NNW and ENE trending basin margin faults and more permeable coarse clastic units with silica. It is these silica-rich bounding faults, silicified permeable units and sub-horizontal sinter layers which are the exploration targets.
Please note: The Monte Cristo area does not contain any known reserves and any planned drilling program is exploratory in nature.
San Antonio Area Geology
The geology at the San Antonio area is similar to La Union-San Jose-San Luis areas. Host rocks include andesites and dacitic tuffs. Outcrops are very sparse. The tuffaceous units are softer, exhibit a more granular sandy texture and do not crop out well. Dacite dikes are rare in comparison to the La Union and San Jose areas. The general strike of the principal mineralized structures and breccia bodies is N30W, with some north-trending step-over structures connecting them. A stockwork zone of varying intensity generally occupies the areas between the major veins.
Please note: The San Antonio area does not contain any known reserves and any planned drilling program is exploratory in nature.
La Veronica
The geological boundary between San Antonio North and the La Veronica area to the north corresponds to another reversal in dip direction of the major mineralized structure(s). Within the La Veronica area, drill data indicates the mineralized fault consistently dips to the east. The exact location of the change in dip direction has not yet been identified.
The La Veronica vein system strikes about N30W and dips steeply to the northeast. It occupies the faulted contact between andesitic units to the east and rhyolitic tuff units to the west. Drill logs note rhyodacite dikes locally occupying the La Veronica structure. Like the San Jose-La Union area to the south, the “vein” is normally a stockwork of quartz-pyrite veinlets and localized hydrothermal breccias, rather than massive quartz veins. Wall rock alteration is largely propylitic with some argillization and silicification. In the northern quarter of the vein’s strike length, it is a relatively simple single plane, whereas in the rest of its length it is more of a braided fault zone with at least two splits. Surface exposures of this vein are poor. Much of the geologic data was derived from mapping of 20 trenches and logging of drill core from 28 drill holes. In late 2010, Paramount commenced a small drill program at La Veronica. Drill units are pending.
Please note: The La Veronica area does not contain any known reserves and any planned drilling program is exploratory in nature.
Don Ese Area Geology
The Don Ese target geology is characterized by andesitic volcanic rocks that are overlain by flsic volcanic units. Rhyolitic bodies intrude north and northwest-trending faults. Don Ese is controlled by a north-northwest-trending structure with strong argillic alteration and oxidation of host andesites. The structure is close to and may be genetically associated with a rhyodacite dome. In 2010, Paramount completed a 7 hole core hole drill campaign and is currently conducting a follow-up program.
Please note: The Don Ese area does not contain any known reserves and any planned drilling program is exploratory in nature.
Mineralization
The San Miguel mineral deposits are multi-phase vein deposits generated by several generations of crosscutting veins, veinlets, breccias and related hydrothermal alteration. Alteration ranges from peripheral propylitization to argillic alteration to intense silicification, often with adularia development. The mineralization is physically expressed as quartz vein stockworks, silicified hydrothermal breccias, and vuggy, quartz-filled expansion breccias. Amethystine quartz is locally present. At similar deposits, such as those at nearby Palmarejo, there are generally several stages of gold-silver and or base metal mineralization. Macroscopic observations of drill core and preliminary observations from ore microscopy indicate that more than one mineralizing event may also be present in the various mineral occurrences at the San Miguel Project.
Three styles of gold and silver mineralization occur in the project area:
1.
Silver vein systems (VS) trending NNW
●
Forms most of the historic mining in the district
●
Most of initial resource estimate defined in this style
●
Extends both laterally and at depth
●
Au increases with depth (to 20: 1 Ag: Au or less)
2.
Sheeted Vein Complexes (SVn)
●
Broad zones of quartz veins (up to 600m wide and 2,000m on strike)
●
Similar to the VS style with same orientation, but much wider zones allow for bulk mining methods
●
Silver and base metals shallow, higher gold potential at depth
3.
Volcanic Dome Complexes (VDC)
●
Broad zones and on the margins and within the domes
●
Igneous bodies controlled by intersection of NNW and E-W structures
●
Alteration (thought to be hypogene hematite), zoning, and mineralization support a separate and later mineralizing event
●
Forms most of the "bulk gold" targets
We have not disclosed resource estimates or assay result disclosure pursuant to Canadian National Instrument 43-101 as the resource estimates have not demonstrated either proven or probable reserves and are not provided herein.
La Union Area Mineralization
An area of historic shallow workings is centered approximately 400 meters south of the La Union mine workings. We excavated three trenches totaling 85 meters in this area and twenty-one core holes were drilled for a total of 3,914 meters. Trenching intersected modest intervals of moderate silver and gold grades. The most significant trench intercept in this area (ZLU-7) was 22.6 meters of 0.40 g/t Au and 89 g/t Ag.
San Miguel Area Mineralization
A complex quartz vein structure referred to as the San Miguel vein is exposed over a strike length of at least a kilometer in the San Miguel, Elyca and Empalme concessions immediately north of the small village of Batosegachic. A near-surface section of the vein about 100 meters long, several meters wide and 15 meters deep was mined in the late 1970’s and shipped to the El Paso smelter as precious metal-bearing flux. There is no available record of the grade.
The San Miguel vein structure generally comprises a multi-phase quartz vein and quartz cemented vein breccia with local vugs. Colloform banding is common. Late amethystine quartz is noted locally. Pyrite, galena and sphalerite occur as colloform bands and as crosscutting fracture filling. Several similar, but narrower, sub-parallel, often well-mineralized veins are present in the footwall felsic volcanic rocks.
The bulk of the gold and silver ounces in the San Miguel vein are contained in Clavo 99. In addition, there is a coherent core zone, approximately 650 meters long and 200 meters wide that hugs the upper right clavo margin between holes SM-44 and SM-3. The deepest and southernmost intercepts in the clavo are close to the property boundary.
San Francisco Area Mineralization
The known mineralization at the San Francisco area is associated with a series of chacedonic venlets and mineralized fractures that cut a complex sequence of rhyolitic to dacitic flows, domes, breccias, and dikes. The primary orientations of the mineralized structural zones are northeasterly, N30W, and east-northeast, which is an uncommon orientation for the district. A linear topographic feature passes through the San Francisco target area that is interpreted to be a major N30W fault, which may be a significant control on mineralization in the area. Left-lateral movement on such a fault would generate the east-northeast-trending dilatational fractures that influence some of the Cantilito West mineralization. This movement could also generate other N30W-trending structural zones recognized at San Francisco that are sub parallel to this lineament.
The limited exposures within the erosional low that marks the topographic lineament at San Francisco include silicified hydrothermal breccias, and there are gold values in the few holes in the immediate area. A nearby subparallel ridge is underlain by a N30W-trending stockwork of chalcedonic veining and weak silicification that is strongly anomalous in gold and silver.
Veining occurs both within the domes that lie within the target are and along their margins. Chalcedony is the predominant vien type, but very fine grained to sugary quartz is also present, and fine grained drusy cavities are present locally. The primary alteration type is silicification near the veins, but is locally pervasively in zones of brecciation. Argillic alteration is widespread adjacent to the veining.
Monte Cristo Area Mineralization
Prior to the 2009 work 11 SC holes had been drilled on the Sangre de Cristo concession immediately south of the Monte Cristo concessions, and 3 holes on the Monte Cristo concession MC holes). During July and August of 2009 an additional 9 MC holes (MC-3 to MC-11) were drilled, for a 2009 total of 2691 meters of core. These were designed to test the silicified faulted margins of the structural basin at Monte Cristo. Gold and silver mineralization is present in silicified fault breccias, in silicified permeable volcanic rock units adjacent the fault conduits and in stratiform siliceous sinter bodies. The silicified hydrothermal breccias often contain very angular fragments in a matrix of rock flour and chalcedonic silica with very fine disseminated pyrite. Results to date indicate that an ENE trending structure contains gold concentrations at shallow depths and represents a new style of gold occurrence in the district. NNW trending structures on the target seem to be similar to the San Miguel and La Union veins with silver and base metal concentration at shallow levels and gold potential at greater depth.
Temoris Project Area Mineralization
In the past 18 months, Paramount has increased its exploration of the targets in the Temoris Area of the greater San Miguel Project. The targets include Don Ese and La Veronica.
Mineralization at La Veronica is characterized by stockworks ofquartz-pyrite veinlets within hydrothermal breccias. Wall-rock alteration is largely propylitic with some argillization and silicification. The northern portion of the structural zone that hosts the mineralization is relatively simple, whereas in the rest of its length it is more of a braided fault zone with at least two primary splits. There are few surface exposures of the mineralized zone and therefore Paramount excavated 21 trenches for a total length of 1,135 meters.
The Done Ese target vein is not exposed at the surface, but was initially located by fractured rocks indicative of a fault zone, anomalous silver and gold geochemistry, and distinctive clay mineralogy. The Don Ese vein is controlled by a north-northwest-trending structure with strong argillic alteration and oxidation of host andesites. Vein mineralogy is comprised of crustiform bands and hydrothermal breccias that contain quartz, quartz pseudomorphs of calcite, abundant iron and manganese oxy-hydroxides, and locally wall-rock clasts. The dominant sulfide minerals in unoxidized portions of the vein include silver sulfosalts, pyrite, sphalerite, and galena. Gangue mineralogy includes calcium-, manganese-, iron-, and magnesium- bearing carbonate minerals.
EXPLORATION
In July 2005 the San Miguel group of concessions became available as a joint venture from Tara Gold. After a compilation of historic data and initial reconnaissance of the properties, the first targets to be tested were at the Constituyentes 1917 and Monte-Cristo concessions. Three holes tested the Monte-Cristo structure(s) in April and May 2006. Three holes were then drilled in an unsuccessful attempt to confirm historic drill results at a suggested mineralized body called La Blanca on the Constituyentes 1917 concession.
Our ongoing exploration program in the immediate Guazapares area began in April, 2006. The initial phase of the program consisted of an integrated program of surface sampling, geologic mapping, mapping/sampling of accessible underground workings, and trenching. A follow-up diamond drilling program began in the San Luis - San Jose - La Union area and then proceeded to the north. In the fall of 2007 drilling began on the San Miguel vein approximately 3 kilometers west of the Guazapares structure.
When we began exploration at the San Miguel Project, numerous historic surface and underground workings presented immediate drill targets and therefore drilling began almost immediately and has continued to this date. Local detailed mapping, geochemical sampling and trench mapping and sampling was initially conducted to support the drill program. General district/property scale geological mapping, geochemical sampling and geophysical surveys were conducted as time and personnel availability permitted.
Geologic Mapping
Exploration personnel availability was limited when the San Miguel project began, therefore mapping and surface geochemical sampling was generally restricted to the immediate area of the target areas to be drilled and was conducted at a scale of 1:1000. Trenching and trench mapping and sampling would then be conducted in areas of poor outcrop exposure. Accessible underground workings were also mapped and channel sampled. Most of the old workings would have required extensive rehabilitation work to permit safe access and therefore have not been entered nor sampled. The most extensive of the accessible workings is the 300 level of the San Luis mine. Upon completion of trench mapping and sampling and receipt of geochemical and assay results the target area was drilled.
While one target area was being drilled, the mapping, trenching and sampling proceeded to the next target area to be drilled. Mapping, trenching and sampling proceeded in the same order as the drilling sequence: Montecristo, La Blanca, San Luis, San Jose, La Union, San Antonio, La Veronica, Sangre de Cristo, Santa Clara and San Miguel. Paramount recognized the need to conduct broader scale geological mapping of the Project area and therefore brought in four geologists in the summer of 2007 to map the entire district at a scale of 1:5000. Approximately two months of field time was spent over a four-month period mapping more than 15 square kilometers (1,500 hectares) of moderate to rugged terrain. In addition, the detailed 1:1000 scale maps of the target were updated and integrated based on the geological knowledge gained from the district scale mapping. A comprehensive in-house report was produced of the district-scale mapping program. The district mapping and update of detailed areas provided Paramount a better understanding of the district-wide geologic and structural setting and the controls on mineralization.
Trenching
Trenching was an integral part of the exploration program at the San Miguel Project. In many parts of the eastern portion of the Project area, targeted mineralized zones carry only volumetrically minor quartz as veinlet networks in sheared zones in propylitically altered rocks. Outcrop exposures are therefore generally poor, due to the altered and easily eroded nature of the wall rocks around the veins. Veins can often be followed by quartz float trains and by the location of historic prospect pits but many potentially interesting areas are covered by colluvium and organic debris. A thick mat of pine needles covers many of the hilltops containing the mineralized zones. In parts of the La Veronica area, the trace of the vein passed under cornfields. In order to trace and sample the mineralized structures and the wallrocks in sufficient detail, it was necessary to excavate trenches. Trenching, which preceded diamond drilling along the Guazapares structure, was generally completed about 2 months ahead of the drilling in a given area.
The trenching contractor was Excavadores Perez of Guadalupe Victoria, state of Durango. A tire-mounted hydraulic backhoe with a 24 inch wide bucket was utilized and trenches were excavated approximately perpendicular to the structures (roughly east-west). Excavation length was dependant on suspected width of mineralization, topography and local ground conditions. Trenches were dug as deep as the bedrock hardness would allow, generally to a depth of 1.5 to 2.5 meters and rarely to 3.5 meters. The end points and inflection points of all trenches were surveyed. All trenches were mapped for lithology, alteration, structural controls of mineralization and oxidation and were sampled in detail. Our geologists usually mapped the north wall as a standard procedure and because of the better light conditions. Areas to be sampled were marked by the geologist. Samples were collected from near the base of the trench wall. For safety, trenches were back-filled shortly after mapping and sampling was completed. Trench mapping and sampling has been a useful exploration tool at the San Miguel project. It is anticipated that trenching will be utilized again at the Project to follow-up geophysical results in areas that have limited outcrop exposure.
Through 2010, Paramount completed 73 trenches for a total of 3,980 meters. Of these, 71 are in the Santa Clara, La Union, San Jose, San Antonio, El Carmen, and la Veronica areas along the Guazapares fault.
Exploration Program and Budget
The Company’s exploration program and budget will be managed by its in-house technical staff. It will be funded by the Company’s cash on hand and will total approximately $9.235 million dollars for the 2011 calendar year. The exploration activities and budgeted amounts per activity are as follows:
DRILLING
Paramount began drilling at the San Miguel project in late April 2006. Through 2010, drilling was focused on the La Union, San Jose, San Luis, San Antonio, El Carmen, La Blanca, LaVeronica, Monte Cristo - Sangre de Cristo, San Francisco, San Miguel, and Don Ese areas.
The majority of drill holes have been drilled at angles in order to cut the variously dipping mineralized zones relatively high angles. While logistics preclude all holes from cutting the mineralized zones perpendicularly, the drill-hole orientations sufficient for the purposes of the resource modeling of the mineralized material.
The table below represents the distribution of 252 drill holes completed through 2010 at the San Miguel Project.
Layne de Mexico S.A. de C.V has been the drill contractor for all drilling by Paramount at the San Miguel project.
SAMPLING METHOD AND APPROACH
We operate a secure rented core logging and sampling facility in the village of Guazapares. After the core is re-aligned, cleaned and logged, the geologist selects the sample intervals and marks the sample cut line on the core. Sample intervals are generally based on geologic contacts, alteration and mineralization. The sample interval is commonly one meter in length in uniform rocks. In what appear to be mineralized zones, sample breaks are made at significant changes, such as vein or breccia margins, commonly resulting in sample lengths of less than one meter. Maximum sample length is 1.5 meters. Sample intervals are recorded on the geologic log and later input into an Excell database. Before December 2006 the core was split using a mechanical splitter. Since that time the core has been sawn using two Norton Clipper BBL VII water-cooled masonry saws with 20-inch diamond blades. A third saw is maintained as a spare.
Core is cut in half with one half placed in a cloth sample bag and labeled, the other half is returned to the box and archived for future reference. The entire washing, aligning, and splitting process is done under the supervision of Paramount’s geologists. All bagged samples are in the possession of Paramount’s staff until delivered by Paramount personnel the sample preparation facility of Chemex Laboratory in Chihuahua City. After sampling, all core boxes are delivered to a secure rented storage facility in Temoris.
SAMPLE PREPARATION, ANALYSES AND SECURITY
All samples (rock and core) are bagged and sealed once collected. Paramount maintains possession of the samples until delivery to the laboratory. Samples are delivered on a daily basis to Paramount’s locked facility in Guazapares for temporary storage. Samples are then placed in rice sacks and sealed. When a sufficient quantity has been collected, generally on a weekly basis, samples are delivered by Paramount vehicle to the ALS-Chemex sample preparation facility in Chihuahua City, Chihuahua. Laboratory pulps and rejects are backhauled to Temoris and stored in a second locked warehouse in Temoris. ALS-Chemex is Paramount’s primary analytical laboratory. Activation Laboratories and ACME Laboratories have been retained to conduct check sampling. ALS-Chemex is accredited to international quality standards through the International Organization for Standardization/International Electrotechnical Commission to ISO/IEC 17025/2005 including ISO 9001/2000. It is a Standards Council of Canada Accredited Laboratory (No. 579) and conforms to requirements of CAN−P−1579 (Mineral Analysis) and CAN−P−4E. Paramount has implemented a QA-QC protocol.
Sample Preparation
Our samples are prepared at the ALS-Chemex sample preparation facility in Chihuahua City, Chihuahua. The Chihuahua facility specializes in the preparation of geological materials utilizing methods ranging from standard preparation to siebing and metallic screen preparation. The facility has a modern array of equipment and is capable of processing as many as 20,000 samples per month. Sample preparation consists of conventional drying if required, in ovens with a temperature in the range of 110-120 C (230-250 F); crushing; splitting and; pulverizing. After drying, the sample is passed through a primary oscillating jaw crusher producing material of 70% passing a 2mm screen (CodeCRU-31). A 250-gram sub-sample is split from the crushed material using a stainless steel riffle splitter (Code SPL-21). This split is then ground to 85% passing 75 microns or better using a ring pulverizer (PUL-31). Prepared sample pulps are shipped from Chihuahua to the ALS-Chemex laboratory in North Vancouver, Canada for analysis.
Analytical Procedures
The ALS-Chemex North Vancouver laboratory is a full-service, analytical laboratory, specializing in mineral testing for mining and exploration companies. The Vancouver facility is accredited for all laboratory procedures utilized by Paramount. ALS-Chemex quality control procedures are method specific and include duplicate samples, blanks, replicates, reagent / instrument blanks for the individual methods. Paramount has utilized several analytical protocols throughout the drill program at the San Miguel Project. Changes have been made to address concerns brought about during regular reviews of sample QA-QC and project objectives.
DATA VERIFICATION
Quality Assurance / Quality Control (QA/QC)
A quality control system has been established at the San Miguel Property. This program includes the routine insertion of certified reference materials (standards), field blanks and duplicates. As the program was established after a considerable number of samples had already been analyzed (~15,000), part of this program was designed to increase the confidence of earlier analyses through a series of external check analyses.
To monitor accuracy, a series of certified reference materials were inserted into the sample stream in the field at a rate of 1 in every 20 samples submitted. Where possible, the grade of the standard was matched to the expected grade of the samples in the batch, with a low grade “geochem” standard, GBM966-2 inserted in greater frequency in lower grade background areas.
The accepted values are established through round robin analyses. The CDN standards were characterized using 10 sample splits submitted to each of 12 laboratories for a total of 120 analyses. The Geostats standard was characterized by analyses by at least 46 laboratories worldwide.
Precision
Precision was monitored by the insertion of duplicate samples at a rate of 1 in 20 samples submitted. The duplicates alternated between quarter core duplicates and preparation duplicates, split after the initial jaw crushing phase to make two pulps. In addition ALS-Chemex routinely analyses pulp duplicates as part of its internal quality control program.
Contamination
Contamination is monitored through the routine insertion of field blank material into the sample stream at the rate of 1 in each group of 20 samples submitted. The blank material is unmineralized local rock. A rough guide for blanks is that samples should have analyses of less than 5x the detection limit. This, of course depends on how low a detection limit you have and the natural background concentration of the blank material. In this case, with a limit based on 5x the gravimetric fire assay detection limit of 5 ppm would be 25 ppm..
External Check Assays
External check analyses provide an independent check of relative bias and accuracy. In a routine quality control program approximately 5% of pulps would be submitted along with standard reference material to a separate lab. Pulps are the preferred sample type as it eliminates much of the sampling error and provides a better comparison of the analyses.
NEVADA EXPLORATIONS
Summary:
We acquired all of the issued and outstanding shares of common stock of X-Cal Resources in August 2010. The principal asset of X-Cal is the Sleeper Gold Mine located in Humboldt County, Nevada. We intend to focus on drilling mine scale exploration targets defined by current and ongoing studies. The objective of the drilling is to test the targets for gold deposits that warrant follow up drilling for discoveries that can be mined by open pits or underground workings.
X-Cal Resources (“X-Cal”) was incorporated in 1984. X-Cal has a wholly owned subsidiary, X-Cal U.S.A. Inc., which was incorporated in the State of Nevada, and a 100% interest in New Sleeper Gold, LLC, a Nevada Limited Liability Company. X-Cal also has a 100% interest in the Sleeper Mining Co. LLC, a Delaware Limited Liability Company.
X-Cal presently holds interests in four gold prospects; the Sleeper Gold Property, located in Humboldt County, Nevada, the Mill Creek Property and the Reese River Property both located in Lander County, Nevada, and WR Claims in the Spring Valley Area located in Pershing County, Nevada, United States. Our focus will be the exploration of the Sleeper Gold Property located in Humboldt County, Nevada.
Sleeper Gold Property
Location
The Sleeper Gold Property is located 26 miles northwest of Winnemucca, Nevada. Automobile and truck access to the property is by Interstate Highway 80 to Winnemucca, north on Highway 95 for 32 miles, west on Highway 140 for 14 miles, and then south for 6 miles on the maintained gravel Sod House Road to the project site. An office building, heavy equipment enclosure plus assorted equipment are present on the Sleeper Gold Property. Necessary supplies, equipment and services to carry out full sequence exploration and mining development projects are available in Winnemucca, Reno, and Elko, Nevada.
Titles
X-Cal acquired 100% interest and operatorship of the Sleeper Gold Project in 2006. In December 2006, X-Cal acquired 100% title to the York Leased Lands with no royalties pursuant to a buy out agreement with York Mines. X-Cal has the rights to explore, develop and mine the Sleeper Gold Property.
The Sleeper Gold Property includes a historic open pit mine operated by AMAX Gold from 1986 until 1996, which produced 1.66 million ounces of gold, and 2.3 million ounces of silver. The property has been the subject of several exploration programs. These programs have produced an extensive database for current exploration targeting and continuing studies.
Mineralization
The Sleeper Gold Property is situated within the western, apparently older, part of the Northern Nevada Rift geologic province of Miocene age, along the western flank of the Slumbering Hills. Drilling completed in 2007 has led to a new geologic interpretation of mineralization at Sleeper. Meticulous logging of the drill holes identified cobbles and occasional boulders of altered vesicular basalt supported by a matrix of cryptocrystalline volcanic ash. Further inspection identified other volcanic clasts of various lithologies supported by the ash matrix. A “block in ash” texture had been identified and the wide spread occurrence of the volcanic breccia throughout the Facilities area was referred to as a volcanic unit given the name “debris flow”. The debris flow is the primary host lithology for precious metals mineralization identified at the Facilities area. Thickness of the debris flow ranges from 100 feet (30 m) to 500 feet (150 m). Ash layers that are interbedded within the debris flow are not mineralized but do exhibit advanced argillic alteration. The ash units range in thickness from 5 feet (1.5 m) to 20 feet (6m). The debris flow dips westerly towards the existing open pit and has been identified in core at Westwood. The banded veins with visible gold (electrum) and the higher grade sulphide breccias of Westwood are developed within the debris flow. The lower grade mineralization of Westwood favors the debris flow and is similar to mineralization found at the Facilities area.
Four main types of gold mineralization are found within the Sleeper deposit and may represent a continuum as the system evolved from a high level, high sulphidation system dominated by intrusion related fluids and volatiles to a low sulphidation meteoric water dominant system (Corbett, 2005, Utterback, 2005, Histed, 2005). In this setting the paragenetic relationships of the differing mineralization styles are as follows:
• Early - quartz-pyrite-marcasite stockwork
• Intermediate - medium-grade, silica-pyrite-marcasite cemented breccias localized on zones of structural weakness
• Late - high-grade, banded, quartz-adularia-electrum-(sericite) veins
• Post - alluvial gold-silver deposits in Pliocene gravels
Power and Water
As a result of AMAX Inc. mine operation from 1986 to 1996, electrical power is provided to the property by power lines. Water is available by two deep water wells located on the property.
Drilling and Exploration
We believe that significant exploration opportunities along the west side of the Sleeper pit and to the north should also be investigated with exploration. The Sleeper Gold Project is well prepared for a substantial exploration and development program. Historically, multi-million ounce gold deposits occur in multiples. The objectives of our drill program will be to: (A) explore for new bonanza grade deposits near the historic Sleeper Mine, (B) develop and delineate known areas of mineralization and (C) to combine the results with current potential metal inventory in the mill tailings and heap leach pads.
Exploration priorities for the Sleeper Gold Property are expected to focus on five priority mine scale targets located near the Sleeper Mine. All five of the priority targets occur along three structural corridors parallel to the Sleeper Mine historic mineralization. None of the five targets have been sufficiently tested in prior drill programs. Current and ongoing three-dimensional modeling of geochemical data, additional geophysical interpretations and refinements and detailed compilation on Gemcom and Gocad will help set drilling priorities. However, the targets are well defined at present. Drill testing is to involve angled drill hole fences with overlap at bedrock depths. Drill orientation of these current targets is to be east-west to optimize crossing of key structural trends. Each target should have 2 to 4 drill fences to test the target concepts.
The Company has budgeted a $3 million exploration program designed to expand and upgrade resources at the Sleeper gold mine with the goal of completing a geological and grade model by the end of our first quarter and a Preliminary Economic Assessment by early 2012.
We have budgeted the following amounts in connection with our drilling program at the Sleeper project for the 2011 calendar year:*
*Our budgeted expenses may be reallocated based on drilling results and our available cash reserves
The Sleeper Gold Property is without a known reserve and the proposed program is exploratory in nature.
Mill Creek Property
The Mill Creek property comprises a contiguous block of 36 unpatented lode mining claims. The claims total approximately 720 acres and are located in the NW part of the Shoshone Range, 33 kilometers south of Battle Mountain. Access from Battle Mountain is south by paved Highway 305 for 33 km., then eastward on the graded dirt Mill Creek Road for 10 km., and then northeast for 3 Km. on a secondary dirt road to the Property.
The Mill Creek property is in hilly, grass, sagebrush, juniper and pinyon-covered mountain brush high desert terrain, on the lower western slopes of the Shoshone Range. The climate is favorable for year-round mining, with all supplies and services needed for an exploration program available in the Battle Mountain - Elko area.
The Mill Creek property is an early-stage gold exploration prospect. Prior exploration was limited to surface prospecting for barite and gold-silver deposits, geological mapping, geophysical surveys, soil sampling, geochemical rock chip sampling of altered, fractured and veined bedrock. The main exploration target on the Mill Creek Property will be the Carlin-Style gold-silver ores found in altered, metamorphosed, and locally skarnified Lower Plate carbonate and limy to dolomitic clastic sedimentary rocks of the Devonian Wenban Limestone, Silurian Roberts Mountain Formation, and the Ordovician Hanson Creek Formations. A secondary target host rock type is mafic volcanic rocks of the Upper Plate rock sequence, similar to at Newmont’s Twin Creeks Mine. The economic Battle Mountain - Cortez - Eureka Trend gold deposits were deposited as mineralized hydrothermal sedimentary-host replacement horizons and breccia zones along major fault structural zones where alteration and anomalous gold-silver-arsenic-antimony-thallium mineralization are present. Marbles in metamorphic aureoles and iron-rich skarns appear to be favored sites for gold mineralization in these deposits, perhaps due to the rheological character, permeability after fracturing, and chemical reactivity of those rocks to alteration by hydrothermal fluids.
This property is without a known mineral reserve and there is no current exploratory work being performed.
Reese River Property
The Reese River/Horse Mountain Window Project is located in Lander County, north-central Nevada, approximately 25 miles south of Battle Mountain. The Property lies on the west flank of the Shoshone Range in the Basin and Range Province. The property consists of 148 unpatented lode mining claims that cover an area of approximately 2960 acres. The area is characterized by rolling north and northwest-trending ridges dissected by incised drainages and mostly covered by alluvial deposits on the flank and pediment of the Shoshone range.
The property was explored by several companies in the past, first for barite to supply the adjacent mine, then for gold by Placer Dome in the 1980’s to 90s and 2000’s. This historical exploration consisted of geologic mapping, rock-chip and soil sampling, and drilling. A small number of drill holes have been drilled in and around the property by previous operators primarily in search of barite with little if any consideration for gold.
This property is without a known mineral reserve and there is no current exploratory work being performed.
Spring Valley Property
The Spring Valley property consists of thirty-eight lode mineral claims in the Spring Valley Area, Pershing County, Nevada. The project is located approximately 2.5 km northwest of the Rochester mine in the Humboldt Range, 30 km northeast of Lovelock, Nevada. The property covers rocks folded into a broad anticline broken into large blocks by major north-trending faults. Midway Gold Corporation has been currently actively drilling approximately 2 km to the northeast.
This property is without a known mineral reserve and there is no current exploratory work being performed.
Item 3.