Item 2. Properties
Overview
The San Juan Properties which we have under option consist of three separate mines encompassing 63 patented mining claims and 13 unpatented mining claims. All three mines (the Gold King, Mogul and Mayflower), each of which is more fully described below, were actively mined during the early to mid 1900’s, although they have been relatively dormant for the past 15 years. We are presently in the beginning exploration stage for gold and other metals on the San Juan Properties. As a result, we have not commissioned or received a feasibility study with regard to any of the San Juan Properties.
While all three mines have been actively mined in the past, because the SEC permits only the disclosure of proven or probable reserves, which in turn, require, among other things, the preparation of a feasibility study demonstrating the economic feasibility of mining and processing the mineralization, no proven or probable reserves have been established for any of the San Juan Properties.
Terms of our Option and Related Agreements on the San Juan Properties
Effective June 17, 2007, we entered into an option agreement (“Option Agreement”) with Todd C. Hennis and San Juan Corp., a company controlled by Mr. Hennis (collectively the “Optionors”), whereby we were granted the exclusive right and option to acquire up to an 80% undivided right, title and interest in the San Juan Properties. In connection with that transaction, Mr. Hennis became our President, Chief Executive Officer and Director, positions which he resigned on September 9, 2008. The option was amended on November 8, 2007, and is currently exercisable as follows:
(i) an undivided 40% interest in the San Juan Properties will vest when we have incurred expenditures of not less than $6,000,000 on the San Juan Properties, provided that such expenditures must be incurred within five years from the date of the Option Agreement;
(ii) an additional undivided 20% interest in the San Juan Properties will vest when: (a) we have incurred additional expenditures of not less than $3,500,000 on the San Juan Properties, provided that such expenditures must be incurred within 7.5 years from the date of the Option Agreement, and (b) we issue, subject to compliance with applicable securities laws, 10,000,000 shares of our common stock to the Optionors; and
(iii) an additional undivided 20% interest in the San Juan Properties (for an aggregate of 80%) will vest when: (a) we have incurred additional expenditures of not less than $3,500,000 on the San Juan Properties, provided that such expenditures must be incurred within 10 years from the date of the Option Agreement, and (b) we issue, subject to compliance with applicable securities laws, an additional 10,000,000 shares of our common stock, to the Optionors.
Pursuant to the Option Agreement, we paid the Optionors a cash payment of $50,000 in August 2007. In addition, in order to keep the option in good standing, we must make payments to the Optionors as follows:
(i) cash payment of $100,000 within one year from the date of the Option Agreement (Optionors have agreed to extend this payment date until December 15, 2008);
(ii) cash payment of an additional $200,000 within two years from the date of the Option Agreement; and
(iii) 100 troy ounces of gold contained in gold dore, or the cash equivalent thereof, within three years of the date of the Option Agreement, and annually thereafter up to and including the 10th year from the date of the Option Agreement. The foregoing payments are, however, contingent upon: (i) our successful acquisition of the Pride of the West Mill located in Howardsville, Colorado, which acquisition occurred in June of this year; and (ii) the Pride of the West Mill actually being in operation during any part of the year in which payment is due. Currently, the mill is not operational.
Pursuant to the Option Agreement, we: (i) were appointed as the initial operator on the San Juan Properties, with certain rights and obligations as described in the Option Agreement; and (ii) agreed to execute and enter into an employment agreement with Mr. Hennis which he terminated by resignation on September 9, 2008. The Option Agreement will terminate if we fail to make any of the payments required to maintain the option in good standing.
In connection with the Option Agreement, we also entered into a Surface Rights Agreement with the Optionors whereby we were granted a right-of-way to enter upon the San Juan Properties to perform mining exploration activities while the Option Agreement is in good standing. Under the Surface Rights Agreement, we are required to:
•
prepare and present to the Optionors a development plan which details the scope and timing of exploration and mining activities on the San Juan Properties;
•
maintain the roads and power line right-of-ways;
•
construct safety fences and maintain surface facilities on the San Juan Properties;
•
maintain automobile insurance in connection with our vehicles traveling over the San Juan Properties;
•
perform restoration and reclamation on the San Juan Properties upon termination of our operations on the land, including returning the land to “Range Land” post-mining use standard as that term is used in the Colorado Mined Land Reclamation Act;
•
protect existing water resources, including mitigating or eliminating the impact of our activities on domestic or stock water wells in the vicinity of the San Juan Properties;
•
properly store and remove hazardous materials; and
•
indemnify the Optionors for losses and liabilities they may incur due to our activities on the San Juan Properties.
We are also required to pay or reimburse the Optionors for all annual property taxes on the San Juan Properties and for any additional taxes which may be assessed on the San Juan Properties by reason of improvements that we place on the San Juan Properties. The Surface Rights Agreement terminates upon the earlier of (i) termination of the mineral rights on the San Juan Properties; (ii) complete reclamation and restoration of the San Juan Properties; (iii) termination of the Option Agreement prior to our exercising the option; (iv) failure to pay the property or other taxes on the San Juan Properties; or (v) June 17, 2032.
Ownership Maintenance Requirements on the San Juan Properties
The patented mining claims of the Gold King, Mogul, and Mayflower Units which encompass the San Juan Properties are owned in fee simple by either Todd C. Hennis or San Juan Corp., a Colorado corporation owned by Mr. Hennis. To maintain ownership of the patented claims, they must make yearly real estate property tax payments in order to avoid tax liens that may result in loss of ownership. With respect to the unpatented mining claims, a yearly maintenance fee of $125 per claim must be paid, and a yearly Notice of Intent to Hold must be filed with the U.S. Bureau of Land Management.
As noted above, we are required under the Surface Rights Agreement to make the property tax payments and maintenance fees on the San Juan Properties. Such expenditures are applied to our earn-in requirements under the Option Agreement.
Royalty Encumbrances
The San Juan Properties are subject to the following royalties: (i) 3.0% net smelter return royalty on Gold King Mine, (ii) 2.5% net profits interest on Gold King Mine, (iii) 2.0% net smelter return royalty on the Mayflower Group, (iv) 2.5% net profits interest in the Mayflower Group, and (v) a 2% net smelter royalty on the Gold King Mine. We have secured an option to purchase the first four of these royalties for $250,000, and we have the possibility to acquire the last royalty for $50,000. The original expiration date of the option was November 21, 2008, however, the expiration date been extended until December 21, 2008. If we acquire an ownership interest in the San Juan Properties by exercise of our Option Agreement, and we are successful in placing the property into production, we will be obligated to pay the royalty holders the percentages of the production and net profits disclosed above if we do not exercise our option to extinguish the royalties. Payment of these royalties will reduce our potential revenue. Further, as the documentation existing for many of these properties dates back to the late 19th century, there may be unknown encumbrances, including royalties, on these properties.
The San Juan Properties
The following describes the three separate mining units that encompass the San Juan Properties.
Gold King Mine Property
The Gold King Mine property consists of 27 patented mining claims covering approximately 198 acres and a total of 13 unpatented mining claims covering approximately 100 acres. Unpatented mining claims SJ-1 through SJ-11 were previously located and incorporated into the Option Agreement. In August, 2007, subsequent to our entering into the Option Agreement, unpatented mining claims SJ-4, SJ-5, SJ-6, SJ-7, SJ-8 and SJ-11 had amended location certificates filed with the U.S. Bureau of Land Management by San Juan Corp. In August, 2007, San Juan Corp. located and filed unpatented mining claims SJ-12 and SJ-13 with the U.S. Bureau of Land Management. All 27 patented mining claims and 13 unpatented mining claims are governed by the Option Agreement. These 27 patented mining claims and 13 unpatented mining claims shall be hereinafter referred to as the “Gold King Property.” The Gold King Property is located in San Juan County, Colorado, at Township 42 North, Range 7 West of the New Mexico Prime Meridian.
As discussed below, the Gold King has a history of significant gold production, and we believe it is in a favorable geologic zone for gold mineralization called the Eureka Graben, where significant gold production has occurred in the past from the neighboring Sunnyside Mine and other properties.
Access to the site is by county road, which is maintained by San Juan County on a seasonal basis. Road access is suitable for four-wheel drive vehicles and light to medium duty trucks. The Gold King Property is located at elevations from approximately 11,000 feet above sea level to 13,000 feet above sea level, approximately 8 miles from Silverton, Colorado. The main underground access to the Gold King Property is the Gold King Mine #7 Level, the portal for which is collapsed. The portal site is located in an avalanche prone area. The terrain is mountainous and the majority of the property is above treeline.
The Gold King property is located in volcanic tuffs, primarily in the Upper Burns and Henson formations. The historic ore produced was banded quartz with abundant pyrite, carrying gold and silver, together with minor amounts of sphaelerite and chalcopyrite. A lesser number of veins in the Gold King property have higher base metal mineralization. The historic ore occurrences were in stringers, veins and shoots. The economic potential of the property depends on the successful identification and exploitation of gold bearing veins and ore shoots. The Gold King Unit property includes seven levels of mine workings, none of which is currently accessible. A power line in a state of disrepair leads from the local electric cooperative’s power line in the valley to the Gold King 7 Level. Major repairs will have to be done to the power line to use it in the future. Abundant water exists in the mine workings.
The map shown below sets forth for the Gold King and Mogul Mines’ the patented and unpatented mining claims which are subject to our Option Agreement.
History of Operations. The best estimate for historic mine production from the Gold King Mine is 665,500 tons containing 0.471 ozs/ton gold, 2.39 ozs/ton silver, 0.71% lead, and 0.52% copper. This historic mine production predominantly occurred during the period 1890 to 1920.1
In the period 1984 to 1992, Gold King Mines Corporation (formerly Gerber Minerals Corporation) conducted exploration activities at the Gold King Mine including re-opening old workings, extending workings, surface exploration mapping and drilling, underground exploration, mapping, sampling and drilling and other activities. Previously published reports listed expenditures by Gold King Mines Corporation of $9.7 million on the Gold King Mine during this period.2
We have access to or copies of most of the geological records from this period, and have access to most of the exploration drill core produced during this period.
Gold King Consolidated, Inc. was majority owner of Gold King Mines Corporation. In February 1990, E.D. Black, a professional engineer in Denver, Colorado prepared “Evaluation Report IV on the Gold King Mine Property, San Juan County, Silverton, Colorado” for Gold King Consolidated, Inc. In this report, Mr. Black estimated gold and silver ore reserves. Approximately 20,000 tons of this material was subsequently mined in 1990 by Sunnyside Gold Corp. as part of a joint venture with Gold King Mines Corp. No further mining activity at the Gold King property is known to have occurred since that date. Based on the reports and data we have accumulated on the Gold King property, we believe that there may be commercially viable mineralized material. However, the estimates and other data on the Gold King property that we possess are historical in nature, and we cannot place any reliance on these estimates at this time. We intend to perform our own exploration activities on the property subject to obtaining adequate financing.
Current and Proposed Exploration Activities. We undertook a limited surface drilling program on the Gold King Property in September 2007. Due to bad ground conditions and the onset of severe winter weather, the drilling program was suspended in October 2007 after one hole was drilled on the North Vein. Please see “Exploration Costs and Plans” below for further information regarding our exploration activities performed to date, current drilling program and exploration plans for the future.
We intend to re-open Gold King #7 Level, rehabilitate the existing workings, and potentially undertake mitigation activities for underground water flows as part of a proposed environmental reconnaissance, subject to (i) reaching an acceptable agreement with the Water Quality Control Division of the Colorado Department of Public Health and U.S. Environmental Protection Agency as further discussed below; (ii) securing necessary permits, permit renewals and authorization; and (iii) availability of funding, personnel and equipment.
Environmental and Regulatory Issues. The Gold King Property is subject to federal, state and local regulations regarding environmental conditions at the site and activities at the site.
In August, 2007, we filed a “Notice of Intent to Conduct Prospecting Operations for Hard Rock/Metal Mines” with the State of Colorado, Division of Reclamation, Mining and Safety governing our proposed surface drilling activities at the Gold King and Mogul Properties. We posted a bond amount of $10,834 governing the reclamation of the proposed drill sites and we were approved for drilling five pads. In addition, in July 2008 we filed a Notice of Intent seeking approval for drilling on another three pads and that notice is still being processed with the Division.
The Gold King Property has an active, acid mine drainage occurring from the Gold King #7 Level. This mine water flow has substantially increased in volume since 2000, and recent flow measurements have shown a large increase in flows. This water discharge is believed by our management to substantially originate from the 2150 vein workings of the Sunnyside Mine, which is owned by another company, and which vein workings extend into the Gold King Property. To date, our management has not been able to prove the origin of this water flow. The environmental reconnaissance discussed earlier is intended to allow the Company to prevent further potential environmental degradation from a “blow out” of potentially impounded mine waters, and to investigate potential mitigation or reduction of mine water flows. We are in negotiations with the Water Quality Control Division (“WQCD”) of the Colorado Department of Public Health and Environment and the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”) to authorize us and San Juan Corp. to undertake reconnaissance and mitigate activities to hopefully prevent a potential “blow out” of underground blockages at the Gold King Mine, which if it occurred could be a potential threat to public health. We are also in negotiations with the WQCD and EPA to obtain a discharge permit and we are working towards plans to develop the support necessary to construct the treatment works necessary to comply with a discharge permit. In connection with our environmental and permitting efforts, we have hired an environmental remediation specialist to assist us with our negotiations and permitting process with the WQCD and EPA.
Our intended re-opening of the Gold King mine, rehabilitation of the existing workings and potential undertaking of mitigation activities for underground water flows as part of a proposed environmental reconnaissance are subject to reaching an acceptable agreement with the WQCD. There is no assurance at the present time that an acceptable resolution with the WQCD can be reached.
We have received correspondence from the State of Colorado Attorney General’s Office stating that the Company was required to apply for a stormwater discharge permit for the Gold King Mine by the end of January 2008. We applied for the stormwater discharge permit in January 2008, and received Permit COR-040237 for the Gold King Mine on January 28, 2008. The stormwater permit requires a Stormwater Management Plan for the site, and we have incorporated such a plan into an existing Environmental Management Plan for the Gold King Mine. We are in negotiations with the State of Colorado Attorney General and also the Water Quality Control Division of the Colorado Department of Public Health and Environment to discuss additional issues related to permitting requirements. Currently, it appears the position of the Colorado Attorney General is that the property owner has a duty to permit the discharges in question and should work towards plans to develop the support necessary to construct the treatment works necessary to comply with a discharge permit.
Permitting requirements can be a costly undertaking and we could be at risk now and in the future for fines and penalties if required permits are not timely in place.
We initiated two projects to assess alternative water treatment technologies in the Cement Creek watershed of San Juan County, Colorado, one of which is in conjunction with the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and the U.S. Bureau of Land Management. We believe these projects demonstrate our environmental stewardship and intent to decrease future production costs.
One project tests the Rotating Cylinder Treatment System™ (RCTS) at a proposed district-scale water treatment facility near Gladstone, Colorado. The U.S. Government is providing the bulk of the project’s funding. Testing is being performed by Ionic Water Technologies, Inc. of Nevada. We are providing test work locations, equipment, water containment vessels, and personnel.
Separately, in August 2008 we tested an Ionic State Modification (ISM) system, developed by Blue Sky Water Treatment Technologies, Inc., to potentially treat the water discharge at the Company’s Gold King Mine site.
Results from Alpha Analytical, a nationally certified third-party testing laboratory in Sparks, Nevada, showed that Blue Sky’s technology removed five of the EPA’s “contaminants of concern.” Cadmium, copper, manganese, lead and zinc were reduced to non-detectable levels or significantly below acceptable state of Colorado discharge targets.
Blue Sky’s technology uses patented Ionic State Modification (ISM) Reactors. The system targets harmful contaminants, alters them so that they are no longer soluble in water and removes them using standard chemistry. In most waste streams, Blue Sky’s ISM technology uses comparatively small amounts of lime and greatly reduces sludge volumes that usually yield large amounts of hazardous waste.
Prior to conducting further underground mine exploration or mining activities, we will have to apply for and obtain a notice of intent to conduct prospecting and mining activities which will also necessitate a reclamation permit from the State of Colorado Division of Reclamation, Mining and Safety.
Mogul Mine Property
The Mogul Mine Property consists of 17 patented mining claims which adjoin the Gold King Property. The claims cover approximately 126 acres. The historic mineralization of the Mogul Mine property has primarily been in the Mogul Vein, which is commonly held to be an extension of the George Washington vein of the Sunnyside and Brenneman Mines. The mineralization of the Mogul vein is primarily lead and zinc sulfide minerals, with some copper, silver and gold mineralization.
The Mogul property is located in the headwaters of the North Fork of Cement Creek in Township 42 North, Range 7 West of the New Mexico Prime Meridian, San Juan County, Colorado. Access to the property is via two non-maintained county roads, suitable for four-wheel drive and light to medium duty truck traffic. We intend to conduct maintenance on these roads as needed in order to keep them passable. Such expenditures will apply towards our earn-in requirements under the Option Agreement.
We believe that the Mogul property has significant visual surface mineralization of lead and zinc sulphides, and the Mogul Vein has surface outcrops which run for approximately 4,500 feet. We believe the Mogul Vein has significant widths, such that if exploration activities delineate sufficient grades of mineralization, potential mining widths exist.
The Mogul property lies in volcanic tuffs, primarily the Henson and Burns Formations, which are cut by the Mogul vein, which is associated with a ring fault of the Silverton Caldera. Other minor veins exist on the property.
The Mogul vein contains quartz, pyrite, sphaelerite, galena and chalcopyrite, with minor amounts of gold and silver mineralization. The Mogul unit was operated intermittently from 1901 to 1965, producing an unknown quantity of base metal ore. Three levels of workings totaling approximately 20,000 linear feet were constructed during this period. None of the workings are accessible. The economic potential of the property is for production of base metal ores, pending successful exploration activities. No power line exists to the property. Abundant water exists in the mine workings.
Please see “Exploration Costs and Plans” for a discussion of our current drilling program on the Mogul Mine Property in 2008. Subject to adequate financing, in 2009 we intend to investigate reopening one or more portals on the Mogul Mine Property to conduct environmental and other reconnaissance activities.
The Mogul Mine Property is subject to certain local, state and federal regulations. An acid mine discharge occurs at the Mogul #1 portal, which had previously had a hydraulic bulkhead constructed in it to reduce the mine water flows. An acid water discharge occurs in the vicinity of the Grand Mogul portal, and we may reopen the Grand Mogul portal in the future to attempt to determine the origin of this discharge.
Mayflower Mine Property
The Mayflower Mine Property consists of a 70% undivided interest in 19 patented mining claims covering approximately 179.4 acres, or a net ownership at 70% of approximately 125.5 acres. The property is approximately 3 miles from Silverton, Colorado, and is located in Township 41 North, Range 7 West, New Mexico Prime Meridian, San Juan County, Colorado. The historic mineralization of the Mayflower Mine has consisted of base metals with some gold and silver contents. Published historic production figures for the Mayflower Mine (also known as the Shenandoah-Dives Mine) for the period 1901-1957 are 4.5 million tons containing 520,000 ounces of gold, 12.3 million ounces of silver, 18,000 tons of copper, 47,000 tons of lead and 10,000 tons of zinc.3 Some portion of this production may have originated from adjoining properties.
The Mayflower property was one of the largest production mines in the history of the Silverton area. We believe that drilling done by a previous owner in the 1980s indicates that potentially economic mineralization exists below the main haulage level, such that if further exploration activity confirms this mineralization and a significant volume of mineralized material, then the potential exists to place this mine back into production at some point in the future.
Access to the Mayflower property is via county road suitable for four-wheel drive vehicles. The Mayflower Vein is located in the Silverton Volcanic series. The historic economic mineralization was located in the Hanging Wall Zone and Footwall Zone, which could exceed 10 feet in width each in places. The historic ore produced was relatively low grade in precious and base metals, but with a sufficient combined value to make production economic at the time. The Main Level of the Mayflower Unit is currently inaccessible due to construction of a plug by a previous owner. No power or water supply is currently on the property.
Management intends to conduct limited work on the Mayflower Mine Property for the foreseeable future. We intend to focus the majority of our activities on the other properties under option to the Company.
Page 6 of the SEG Newsletter October 1993 article entitled “Comparison of Gold-Rich and Gold-Poor Quartz-Base Metal Veins, Western San Juan Mountains, Colorado: The Mineral Point Area As An Example” by Paul J. Bartos.
The map shown below sets forth the Mayflower Mine’s patented and unpatented mining claims which are subject to our Option Agreement.
Exploration Costs and Plans
As discussed elsewhere in this report, we have minimal cash on hand and current assets. Thus, all future exploration plans discussed in this report are subject to our obtaining adequate financing. Considering the depressed economic climate and significant difficulties in the capital and credit markets, we cannot give any assurances that we will be able to obtain adequate financing. See Management’s Discussion and analysis of plan of Operation.
Recent Exploration Events. After delay due to record accumulations of snow in the area, drilling commenced at the Gold King and Mogul Mines in July 2008. The Gold King and Mogul Mines are part of the San Juan Properties which are subject to our Option Agreement. The mines are located in the Ross Basin, high in the Colorado Rocky Mountains. At over 12,000 feet in elevation, heavy snow buildup had to be removed before we could commence drilling operations. We drilled approximately 4,200 feet of diamond core exploration holes on the Gold King and Mogul properties during the remainder of this summer and fall. The Gold King drilling targets were the Gold King-Davis veins, North Vein and the Portland Extension Vein. The drilling on the Mogul property targeted the upper Mogul Vein and the Mogul Vein at the Grand Mogul area.
In June 2008, we acquired our own drill rig and equipment, a Longyear 34 drill, which is currently drilling at the Mogul Mine. The drill has a DeutzL 912 deck engine, Bean 35 pump, 2-cylinder Lister with 4 speed transmission, mounted on a 1993 Morooka MST-1500. We have also contracted with Godbe Drilling, LLC of Montrose, Colorado, an unaffiliated drilling company, and they are currently drilling at the Gold King mine with their truck mounted Longyear 44 drill rig.
Our 2008 drilling program was completed in October. We drilled 3,523 feet on the Gold King Extension in 3 holes, and 1,172 feet on the Mogul Mine property in 2 holes for a total of 4,695 feet. Over 400 core samples have been sent to an independent assay laboratory for analysis. Please see “Exploration Costs and Plans” for more information regarding our 2008 drilling program and future plans.
As part of the 2008 drill program, the Company completed 3,459’ (1,054m) of core drilling in three drill holes. These particular diamond drill holes were positioned to test for NE-SW trending veins continuing from the property’s Gold King-Davis vein system. As anticipated, these drill holes successfully intercepted multiple parallel veins throughout the length of the drilling. While several veins are interpreted as being continuous mineralized structures with potential, we believe the ‘B’ Vein Zone demonstrated significant mineralization with an estimated true width of 12-13 feet and continuity.
The ‘B’ Vein Zone was encountered in hole CG08-01 at a depth of 635 feet, expressing two strong quartz sulfide veins that are approximately 30 feet apart. Step-out holes to the northeast and to the southwest intercepted the ‘B’ Vein at 615 ft. and 680 ft., respectively. We believe that all three intercepts provide indication of potential for a well-mineralized, and continuous structure.
While awaiting the completion of the entirety of assay results, being provided by Skyline Laboratories in Tucson, Arizona, Company management requested XRF analysis in order to obtain early indicative analyses of potential precious metal content. Management chose the Thermo Scientific NITON® XL3t handheld Analyzer because of its superior reputation.
Results from the Niton XL3t Analyzer testing performed on the Gold King Mine Extension mineralized segments of the ‘B’ Vein over a 2.4 ft. drill width are set forth below:
Source: Colorado Goldfields Inc. field testing, November 7, 2008, Silverton, Colorado using Thermo Scientific NITON® XL3t x-ray fluorescence (XRF).
Samples from the drilling program have been submitted to an independent laboratory for analysis, and check samples will be submitted to a second laboratory. XRF Analysis is not a substitute for assay analysis, and may not be indicative of actual results. We can make no assurances that assay results will be as favorable as those described above using XRF analysis.
We have requested Allan P. Juhas, Ph.D. in Economic Geology, University of Manitoba 1973, to undertake preparation of a N.I. 43-101 report based upon this season’s drilling and previous work that can be verified. Dr. Juhas has over 50 years experience in a broad spectrum of precious metal and base metal geological pursuits. Dr. Juhas is well recognized in the industry, and prepares a number of N.I. 43-101 reports each year. Our objective is to establish an N.I. 43-101 compliant resource for our San Juan Properties.
We have budgeted our operating expenses for the remainder of 2008 through March, 2009 at $600,000 to $800,000 which includes costs and expenses related to drilling, assays and geological, and preparation of the N.I. 43-101 report.
During our planning phase over the past year, we have acquired an inventory of equipment in advance of operations. We believe this stockpile will enable us to reasonably support our drilling operations by drawing upon our inventory of equipment and supplies including NQ and HQ drill rods, bits, water pumps and numerous accessories, thus minimizing any downtime during the operational phase of the drill program. Nonetheless, significant equipment breakdown, labor or weather issues, or unknown drilling problems may occur, any one of which could jeopardize completion of our drilling program in 2009. Such problems would likely increase the cost of the drilling program.
In connection with our future sampling programs, we intend to perform these programs in compliance with Canada’s National Instrument 43-101, a rule developed by Canadian administrators which requires strict protocols and procedures governing how companies disclose scientific and technical information about their mineral projects to the public. NI-43-101 includes requirements regarding chain of custody, quality control, and qualifications of persons performing the scientific and technical services.
The following table sets forth our estimated exploration costs for the San Juan Properties. We estimate that these costs will be incurred over a three year period. These estimated costs may change significantly due to shortages of qualified contractors and equipment, increased government regulations or unexpected permitting issues, adverse weather, lack of capital, or other unexpected problems or issues. In addition, our management has wide discretion to reallocate exploration costs as it deems advisable.
For each of these properties, our exploratory phased program consists of gathering and re-interpreting the historic geological information on the properties followed by surface drilling. At the Gold King and Mogul Units, underground work is planned to commence in 2009 to reopen old workings and to conduct underground exploration, all subject to availability of funds, availability of contractors, and securing the necessary permits. Extension of the workings of the Gold King and Mogul Units is contemplated to allow for underground drilling and sampling activities. Based on the information gathered from these phases, additional work will be conducted.
We intend to continue to raise capital through equity or debt offerings, although we cannot give any assurances that we will be successful in raising sufficient capital on economically feasible terms. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis or Plan of Operation.”
Past Exploration Activities. Total direct drilling and exploration costs incurred through August 31, 2008 exploring the San Juan Properties were approximately $656,000. Our sampling program during 2007 followed a strict protocol regarding sample collection, sample preparation, and analytical procedures. We contracted Coast Mountain Geological Ltd. of Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada to conduct these activities and Coast Mountain followed its established protocols in all of its operations. The Coast Mountain geologist was provided an exclusive building with the geologist controlling the locked access to the work area, for examining, collecting and preparing the drill core and surface samples. Photographs were taken of all core samples and appropriately logged. The relevant sections of the core were then split, with one half of the material being prepared as samples, and the other half retained in a core library. Strict chain of custody procedures were followed by the contract geologist. At no time was any officer of the Company able to view the work area unsupervised by the geologist. Gary Schellenberg, our former Vice President and Director, is a part owner and principal of Coast Mountain Geological, Ltd. Samples were sent to Acme Analytical Laboratories of Blaine, Washington, an unaffiliated contractor, for testing. It is our understanding that Acme Analytical Laboratories follows strict commercial QA/QC protocols in their handling of the samples and analytical work.
Our exploration work performed in 2007 was carried out by geological and drilling contractors. Additional exploration staff may be hired, subject to qualifications, availability of funds and our growth needs. We intend to contract with third parties for our geophysics, drilling and other exploration activities, subject to availability of funding and qualified contractors.
Pride of the West Mill
The Pride of the West Mill is an inactive mining mill located at Howardsville, Colorado in San Juan County. The Pride of the West Mill is located on approximately 120 acres of patented mining claims on San Juan County Road 2, within a six air mile radius of the Gold King Property, the Mogul Mine Property and the Mayflower Mine Property. The physical address is 2201 County Road 2, Silverton, Colorado. No mineral is known to exist in deposit form on the property. The economic significance of the property is as a mineral processing site, with residual post-mining value.
We purchased the Pride of the West Mill in June 2007 from Tusco, Inc., an unrelated third party, for a sale price of $900,000 and assumption of the Colorado Mined Land Reclamation Permit. We paid $250,000 of the purchase price in cash, with the remaining $650,000 paid by way of a promissory note to Tusco with interest at 7% per annum. Interest on the note of $3,792 is payable monthly and the entire amount is due and payable on or before June 29, 2009, and is secured by Deeds of Trust and financing statements on the mill property and equipment.
The Pride of the West Mill consists of a main mill building constructed mostly in the 1970s with equipment for gravity and flotation concentration of ores, an office/shop building, a laboratory building, a cyanide process plant building, a truck scale building and other support buildings. Certain improvements to the mill roof were conducted in 2007, as well as general maintenance activities. The overall condition of the buildings is good. The overall condition of the mill equipment is good, and consists of a plant to produce gravity mineral concentrates, lead sulphide, zinc sulphide, and copper sulphide floatation concentrates. The mill also has the ability to treat ores with cyanide solution to recover precious metals. The mill is readily accessible by heavy trucks, has a power substation in place, and has two water rights from Cunningham and Hematite Creeks with associated water pipelines on the property that are sufficient to supply the needs of the mill complex. An inactive assay lab is on the property, as well as an office/shop building, and associated support buildings. The main mill building is a steel frame building with concrete basement.
In March 2008, the Colorado Division of Reclamation, Mining and Safety transferred the mill permit into our name, and in connection therewith, we posted a bond in the amount of $318,154 with the Division in the form of a letter of credit. The total reclamation costs were estimated at approximately $500,000, and our management continues to believe that such estimate is reliable. Thus, we have recorded an estimated asset obligation of $500,000 in connection with our estimated future reclamation costs.
The Pride of the West Mill was (and is) the subject of a cease and desist order (“C&D”), issued by the Colorado Division of Reclamation (“DRMS”), Mining and Safety due to the operational deficiencies of the previous operator (Silver Wing Company, Inc.) in the period 2002-2003.
The four problems causing the C&D have been identified; solutions designed, and are now ready to be implemented, which will remove the C&D.
The problems enumerated in the C&D are:
1.
Leaks in the mill roof allowing rain and melt water to collect in the basement of the mill, transiting the single walled pipe to the mill drainage pond.
2.
Piping from the main mill building to the mill building drainage pond is currently only of single wall thickness; two-walled thickness is required.
3.
Existing holes in the existing single tailing pond liner.
4.
The mill building drainage pond needs an additional liner.
The Mill roof repair was completed in October 2007. The mill roof and the main flat roof were replaced with a new Ethylene Propylene Diene Monomar (“EPDM”), liner roof. The flat roof work included installation of foam insulation to R-42 thickness under the EPDM roof liner to increase the energy efficiency of the mill building.
The second item, involves replacing approximately 100 feet of drainage pipe from the main mill building to the mill drainage pond with double wall thickness pipe. This work will take less than a day and cost $3,500 or less.
To fully explain items 3 and 4, relating to the ponds, some background is provided.
In October 2007, Colorado Goldfields Inc. requested a DRMS team to visit the Pride of the West Mill for a comprehensive review of activities designed to lift the C&D. DRMS and the Company agreed to the replace the existing small, single lined tailings pond with a state-of-the-art reinforced double liner that included a leak detection system. This qualifies ponds as an “Environmental Protection Facility,” suitable for disposal of material on which cyanide has been used in processing.
Design drawings and specifications were provided to CGFI on June 17, 2008. This design will be submitted to DRMS as a “technical revision” of the Pride of the West Mill permit M-1984-049.
Upon approval of the final tailings pond design, we will obtain a quotation for materials and installation of the new liners. A projected cost is $500,000. A similar procedure will be used when adding additional height to Cell 1, or in re-activating the much larger Cell 2. Ultimately, the Company plans to transport the mill tailings underground into the mines for backfilling purposes and disposal.
In summary, the scope of the work necessary to lift the C&D is identified, as well as costs. Design is finished and we are now moving forward with approval and implementation.
Detail drawings of the pond design follow.
Subject to funding, regulatory and other approvals, and other factors, we are hopeful of addressing the requirements of the Cease and Desist Order in 2009.
The following table sets forth our estimated costs to bring the mill into active status. Subject to adequate funding, we intend to begin the renovations June 2009 and we estimate that it will take approximately four months to complete most of the renovations.
We have been approached by potential operators of other mines in the vicinity to potentially process their ores. We will consider processing other potential ores in order to demonstrate the operability of the Pride of the West Mill until the Company can generate sufficient ore tonnage of its own to operate the mill. There is no assurance that either of these events will occur.
The State of Colorado caused approximately 18,000 tons of mine dump material to be placed on the raw ore stockpile area of the Pride of the West Mill under a previous operator. We believe that the Company does not have title to this material and that it would not be economical to process the material. We are seeking a solution to the disposal of this material, potentially in cooperation with the parties that placed the material on the property.
The Pride of the West Mill is subject to certain local, state and federal regulations.
Item 3.