ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
COEUR D’ALENE MINING DISTRICT
Overview
The Silver Valley of Idaho, a region noted for its historical silver production, is located in a heavily mineralized zone in northern Idaho. In the Silver Belt of the region, mineralization is found primarily in the Revett and St. Regis formations.
Sterling is primarily focused on locating, purchasing or leasing mining claims in key positions throughout the Silver Valley. Through March 2006, Sterling controlled through ownership or lease over 17,700 acres.
The addition of the Sunshine property tops the list of Sterling-controlled landholdings as a business opportunity from which to develop other properties and landholdings within the Coeur d’Alene Mining District.
The foregoing map shows the locations of our various properties in the Coeur D’Alene Mining District near Kellogg, Idaho.
The table below summarizes Sterling’s Coeur d’Alene Mining District land holdings by property and their corresponding acreage.
* Sunshine group includes the leased Chester, Mineral Mountain, Merger, Metropolitan, Bismarck and United Mines properties. See “Sunshine Property” table for detail on the Sunshine Group properties.
Geology of the District
The district is hosted by the rocks of the Pre-Cambrian Belt super group. These sedimentary rocks were deposited approximately 1.6 billion years ago. At various times these rocks were faulted, leached, altered and re-mineralized. The Belt super group has been divided into the Prichard group, Ravalli group, Middle Carbonate group, and Missoula group. Within the Coeur d’Alene district, rocks of the Prichard, Ravalli, and Middle Carbonate groups can be found. The formations comprising the Ravalli group are the preferred host rocks for silver mineralization in the district. These formations are from older to younger Burke, Revette, and Saint Regis.
The District has a history of intense faulting and folding of these rock formations. Two major east-west fault zones, the Osburn and Placer Creek faults, cut through the District and, although mineralization does not necessarily occur along these fault zones, the district ore bodies are intimately associated with this and other faulting.
The combination of faults, fractures, folds and favorable host rocks found in the District has created suitable conditions for lead-zinc-silver mineralization. The geology of the District may display little or no indication of mineralization on the surface, and many of the successful silver mines in the District did not realize their full potential and best grade of ore until after a depth of at least 1700 feet was reached in the development and exploration. Examples include
the Galena, Sunshine and Lucky Friday Mines thus, mining claims in the District, often require deep drilling from the surface or underground drilling to determine whether commercial grade ore bodies are present. Exploration of land near major mines is often easier to target for exploration and development from existing shafts. In other silver producing areas, a deposit may bottom out at a few thousand feet below surface. However, in the Coeur d’Alene District, this is not the case, as deep extensions of primarily silver mineralization are faulted and folded, which may have moved the favorable host rocks deeper.
Sunshine Property
Background
The Sunshine Mine was a significant primary silver mine from 1884 to 2001. The mine facility includes extensive underground workings including shafts, levels, raises and ramp systems extending to depths of 6,000 feet below ground and a broad database reflecting over 100 years of exploration, development and production.
The mine ceased production in the first quarter of 2001 as a result of several factors, including the low price of silver and the lack of regular and consistent exploration and development activities. Sterling Mining Company acquired control of the Sunshine Mine in June 2003 through a lease with option to purchase agreement. Beginning in August 2003, and followed by the initial drilling in the fall of 2004, Sterling is continuing and expanding an exploration program. The process of rehabilitation of the underground areas of the mine began in late 2004, and the Company is methodically working towards returning the Sunshine Mine to long-term sustained production with a business model that incorporates determining reserves not only in traditional target areas, but also in a new “upper country” target zones.
Land Position and Ownership
The Sunshine property comprises 6,147 patented and unpatented acres including substantial infrastructure and equipment. Mine workings and surface facilities include: the Jewell surface shaft, 2 surface access levels, 6 internal shafts, 17 major underground levels, numerous raises, boreholes, sublevels and inclined haul roads, the Polaris concentrating mill, machines shops, warehouses and offices. The Sunshine property also includes the leased Chester, Mineral Mountain, Merger, Metropolitan, Bismarck and United Mines properties that are leased by Sterling. These properties are described in more detail below.
The following table sets out the various properties that comprise the Sunshine property.
On June 6, 2003, the Company leased the Sunshine mine and infrastructure, including historical records, from Sunshine Precious Metals, Inc. (“SPMI”) for 15 years. Annual lease payments are $120,000 per year, payable in monthly increments. The Company also agreed to assume approximately $840,000 in outstanding county property tax liabilities, to issue 2,000,000 shares of its common stock at a deemed price of $0.65 per share, and, in a separate transaction, to purchase various items of equipment in exchange for a cash payment of $396,000, payable in six monthly installments. The Company has the option to purchase the property at a price ranging from $3.0 to $5.0 million, depending on the spot price of silver as of the date of exercise. The property is owned by SPMI, but subject to certain liens.
In late 1998, Sunshine implemented a Consent Agreement which settled various issues with the EPA, State and Coeur d’Alene Tribe as Sunshine’s settlement of a Federal natural resource damage suite involving the active mining companies in the Coeur d’Alene Mining District. In addition to conveying surface ownership of some patented mining
claims, the property may be subject to certain royalties to government and tribal entities as part of a settlement action. It is uncertain at present to what extent such royalties will have an impact on current or future operations.
Access
The Jewell Shaft side or west side of the Sunshine Mine is approximately 3 miles south from Interstate 90 at exit 54 via Big Creek Road. Big Creek road is a two-lane, paved road to the mine site and is suitable for all transportation needs of the mine.
The Silver Summit side or east side of the mine is approximately 1,000 feet south on Johnson Street from its intersection with Yellowstone Avenue in the City of Osburn, Idaho via paved and maintained gravel roads suitable for routine mining and exploration activities at this mine entrance.
The Chester, Mineral Mountain, Merger and United Mines lease groups that are part of the Sunshine mining block are accessible via National Forest Service road NF-330 from Big Creek road approximately 200 feet south of Interstate 90 exit 54. This is an unimproved dirt road suitable for exploration access and activities.
The Metropolitan mining lease group that is part of the Sunshine mining block is accessible via Big Creek road approximately one mile south of the Sunshine Mine. This is an improved Shoshone County maintained dirt road suitable for exploration access and activities.
The Bismarck mining lease group that is part of the Sunshine mining block is accessible via West Fork Big Creek road from its junction with Big Creek road approximately three-quarters of a mile south of the Sunshine Mine. This is an unimproved to primitive dirt road suitable for exploration access and activities.
Power and Water
Electrical power to the Sunshine Mine is provided by Vista Utilities, Inc. (formerly Washington Water Power) at 13,200 volts from two separate primary feeds. The first is adjacent to Big Creek road to the mine site where it supplies power to two on-site substation metering points, the north and the south. Both on-site substations reduce the feed voltage to either 2300 or 480 volts depending on motor requirements. The south substation metering point feeds 13,200 volts down the Jewell Shaft to underground substations for transformation to lower voltages.
The second primary feed is brought to the Silver Summit (east side of the mine) mine site adjacent to Johnson Street in the City of Osburn, Idaho. A small transformer is located at the mine site to provide 480 volt power to surface facilities. The primary feed is taken underground at 13,200 volts via the Silver Summit Tunnel to the Silver Summit hoistroom, where it is transformed to 2300/2400 or 480 volts depending on motor requirements.
Water for mine and processing operational requirements, including fire protection, is supplied via Big Creek, a tributary to the South Fork of the Coeur d’ Alene River, upon which sufficient water rights are controlled to provide water for any foreseeable needs. Water conservation is practiced in both mine and processing operations.
Infrastructure
Surface mine plant facilities at the Sunshine Mine include the Jewell shaft hoisting machinery, compressor plant and distribution system, 13.2 KVA electrical substations, complete concentrating mill, repair shops, electrical shop, warehouse, water distribution system, independent fire protection system, heating plant, change rooms, office buildings and the rights to use the Big Creek tailings impoundment.
The Sunshine Mine is serviced by the Jewell shaft and Silver Summit tunnel and shaft. The Jewell is the primary entry and the primary escapeway to and from lower levels while the Silver Summit is used as a secondary access and is the required secondary escapeway from lower levels of the Sunshine Mine. Both shafts are an integral part of the mine ventilation system. Five additional shafts on deeper levels are used for various purposes, including ventilation and water management. The Jewell shaft, which extends vertically down to the 4000 level is serviced by a Nordberg 700 hp double drum hoist for ore, waste and large equipment movement and a separate Nordberg “chippy” (single drum) hoist is used to distribute personnel, small equipment and supplies.
Since 2003, Sterling has been actively renovating and maintaining mine facilities and equipment. Prioritization of these activities is guided by a plan developed to rehabilitate the infrastructure and mine plant that will enable an organized and timely return to sustained production.
Mineralogy
Typically the Sunshine ore consists principally of tetrahedrite, the high silver-containing copper antimony sulfide. This silver bearing tetrahedrite is properly called freibergite. Freibergite contains 3 percent to 30 percent silver substituting for the copper in the crystal structure. Galena is present in the West Chance vein.
Metallurgy and Milling
The current metallurgical facilities include a 1,000-ton per day flotation mill with a projected silver recovery rate of 96-97 percent. Both silver and lead concentrates were formerly produced and shipped to the former Asarco East Helena Smelter. Future production would most likely need to be shipped to an offshore smelter. Sunshine silver concentrate typically exceeds 1000 ounces per ton silver.
The Sunshine Mining Company sold its tailings pond, critical to the disposal of tailings after ore processing, and related water discharges to a mining company while retaining the right of the Sunshine Mine to utilize the tailings pond subject to a negotiated fee schedule. Such a fee schedule and related technical details will need finalization prior to a return to production, if the existing pond is to be used. The Company is evaluating alternate means to affect the same result, including the utilization of water treatment plants and “dry stack tailings”.
Environmental
The Sunshine Mine operated near continuously from 1884 to 2001, with various changes in production levels and extraction, beneficiation and processing method since that time. As such, many process emissions, discharges and waste management activities may be grandfathered under the state and federal regulatory framework. Further, the land position involves mostly patented claims; therefore surface and underground operations have required less regulatory burden that would have been the case if incurred on unpatented mining claims. In addition, in late 1998, Sunshine implemented a Consent Agreement which settled various issues with the EPA, State and Coeur d’Alene Tribe. Sterling has hired a part-time safety and environmental compliance manager who is currently in process of reviewing environmental matters, and requirements for future plans.
To the best of the Company’s knowledge, all required permits are in place to operate the Sunshine facility. A preliminary environmental assessment was completed and supports the past understanding of permits and environmental conditions at the project. Further environmental assessments and due diligence will be completed to better understand current conditions and operations permit conditions.
The Company operates in an environmentally sensitive area and nearby is a “Superfund” designated site. It is to be expected, notwithstanding the consent decree signed in 2001 by the former operator, that ongoing environmental issues will need to be dealt with.
Prior to closure, the Sunshine Mining Company settled a natural resources damage suit with the federal government that gave surface rights to many patented claims to the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and the Coeur d’Alene Tribe. The settlement included a royalty payable to the Coeur d’Alene Tribe that is indexed to the price of silver for production from those claims and adjacent claims within a mile radius. This action limits future disturbance on the surface covered by those claims and may result in the need for negotiations for any future surface access. However, it is important to note that all access by way of underground workings for either exploration or production was retained by the mine.
After closure of the mine, Sunshine Mining Company sold the Big Creek tailings impoundment, the antimony plant and silver refinery to Formation Chemical Company, but retained rights to use the impoundment. This right to use the tailings impoundment was covered in Sterling’s lease agreement. While Sterling has the permitted right to send mine and process water, as well as tailings, to that facility, terms and conditions including a fee schedule for use of the tailings impoundment must be agreed to.
As an alternative, Sterling could pursue establishment of an alternate tailings repository and new permits necessary for it. In either case, a water treatment facility will be required to treat mine waters from dewatering activities as laboratory analysis of these waters indicates elevated iron and manganese content.
One other significant environmental issue is site remediation and reclamation following ultimate closure. As the expected mine life will extend well beyond 2017, no amount has been included in the model for the scenario presented. However, an estimated mine remediation and reclamation cost of $10 million could be anticipated at such a time that closure occurs.
Business Plan
The Company has established a goal of returning the Sunshine Mine to long-term sustainable production, which it believes will deliver the highest shareholder value. To this end, the Company has developed a three-phase plan to accomplish this goal.
The Sunshine Mine or the associated properties had been in continuous operation for 100 years, and the extensive quantity of geologic, mine, and operational data provide a unique opportunity to assess the property and develop costs association with resuming production. Previously, Sunshine Mining Company developed a 10-year plan that was peer reviewed by outside experts in 1999. Sterling plans to use this data, projected costs and other pertinent information to support its project review. The mine has been idle for several years; hence there will be additional startup costs beyond those identified in the original plan developed several years ago. The Company has been working to update the plan with current economic information and assess the rehabilitation required.
As part of the overall Sunshine Project review, Sterling is focusing on compiling geologic data on the property and the district. It will use this information to develop an exploration strategy that will test existing exploration targets and identify new targets. The Company believes these steps that are a part of a staged methodical assessment and review process are essential to understanding and developing the project. At each stage of the review, information obtained and developed will direct the next stage of the analysis.
Some of the activities carried out by the Company in 2003 and 2004 include the following: completed 35,000 ft Phase 1 and 65,000 ft Phase 2 geophysics programs; completed a 35,000 ft geochemical sampling program; completed an initial 2,473 ft surface diamond drilling program; added a maintenance manager, lead electrician, mine manager and mine supervisor; reconditioned the Jewell double and single drum hoists, performed non-destructive rope testing; installed communications, inspected Jewell shaft and stations, 3100 level and 10 shaft hoistroom; maintained surface buildings including application rust inhibiting paint to roofs; and rebuilt diesel fire pump and tested the surface hydrant system, reconditioned spare primary exhaust fan.
In April 2004, the Company began Phase II of its three-phase plan, which was completed in 2005. The Company is now in Phase III, which provides for an outside peer review of its mining plan in order to provide more definitive capital cost estimates, and a sequence of activities to accelerate returning the mine to production. Some of the activities carried out by the Company in 2005 include the following: completed Merger area 13,200 ft IP/resistivity geophysics program; performed stope and vein examinations, 2300 & 3100 Sunshine, West Chance and Silver Summit; began engineering for, 2900 & 3250 access, upper East Yankee Girl and ventilation changes; added maintenance supervisor, lead hoistman and chief geologist to staff; re-roped the Jewell double and single drum (chippy) hoists, re-established 13.2 KVA power to the Silver Summit mine site, reconditioned chippy hoist hydraulic system; continued interior and exterior building repair, maintenance and painting; and various other physical facility improvements.
The next sequence of activities scheduled for 2006 and necessary to meet plan goals would include but not be limited to the following: review of Conceptual Mine Plan by independent engineering firm; complete 60,000 ft Phase 3 IP/resistivity geophysics program to east and north; execute diamond drilling programs, surface 5,000 ft. and underground 25,000 ft.; start Sterling Tunnel development including services, portal, drill stations and an access ramp; continue engineering and design for exploration and development of upper levels (+3100); and continue to evaluate and add to Sterling/Sunshine property position and maintain lands held.
Other Sunshine Group Properties
The Chester, Bismark, Merger, Mineral Mountain, Metropolitan and United Mines properties are included in the Sunshine Property group. For the most part, these properties were originally leased by SPMI prior to their bankruptcy in 2001.
Chester and Bismark Group
In 2004, the Company leased the Chester and Bismark claim groups pursuant to a 25 year lease, renewable for an additional 25 years. The lease, which expires in 2029, requires the annual payment of 50,000 shares of Sterling’s common stock, a $7,200 annual advance royalty, payable in monthly installments, and a 4% Net Smelter Return. Sterling has no work obligations under the lease.
Mineral Mountain Group
In 2004, the Company leased the Mineral Mountain claim groups pursuant to a 25 year lease, renewable for an additional 25 years. The lease, which expires in 2029, required the issuance to the lessor of 30,000 shares of Sterling’s common stock, and provides for an annual advance royalty payment of $3,600, and a 3% Net Smelter Return. Sterling has no work obligations under the lease. As part of the lease, the Company received an option to buy up to 1,000,000 shares of the lessor.
Metropolitan Group
In 2004, the Company entered into an agreement whereby, as assignee of Sunshine Precious Metals, Inc., it confirmed existing leases and agreements pertaining to the Metropolitan claim groups, which expire when cancelled. The agreement provided for the issuance to Sterling of 200,000 shares of the stock in the owner of the Metropolitan claim groups and an annual advance royalty payment by Sterling to the lessor of $12,000.
The Metropolitan Mining Company property consists of 2 patented and 40 unpatented mineral lode claims. These claims lay immediately to the south of the primary workings of the Sunshine mine and immediately to the west of the ConSil Mine. The workings of the Metropolitan Mine are inaccessible. At depth the claims intersect several veins mined from the Sunshine Mine.
The Metropolitan Mine is located on the south limb of the Big Creek Anticline, in the south dipping rocks of the lower Wallace Formation. There are two veins in the Metropolitan Mine. The north and south (or 400 No. 4 vein) veins. The north vein is characterized by a very narrow quartz band, accompanied by a two foot zone of intensely sheared rock with loose, muddy gouge on either wall. The quartz carries pyrite, minor siderite and occasional tetrahedrite and chalcopyrite. The vein strikes east-west and dips at approximately 45-60 degrees. The south vein is composed of a zone a few inches to three feet in width, made up of stringers of quartz carrying siderite and pyrite. Some tetrahedrite is found in the included country rock and in the adjacent hanging wall. The property also covers the Big Creek Fault Zone that separated the rocks of the Wallace and St. Regis Formations on the Footwall from rocks of the Revett Formation on the hanging wall. It is likely that the north and south veins have never been explored in the more favorable quartzite units. It has been postulated that the north vein should intersect the quartzites of the Revett Formation around the 2700. The south vein is projected to intersect with the Big Creek Fault at the 1900 level, and may host potential ore zones in the Revett Formation.
Sunshine Mining Company explored the Metropolitan property from the 3100 level with the development of the Metropolitan cross-cut. A number of narrow quartz-siderite zones were encountered, but no commercial ore-shoots were intersected.
The Yankee Girl vein on Sunshine claims lies immediately to the north of the Metropolitan property, and dip onto Metropolitan claims. Issues regarding ownership of the Yankee Girl vein have prevented exploration of this structure in the past. The Yankee Girl vein is believed to host mineralization along 10,000 feet of strike length.
Sterling proposes to extend the area of existing surface exploration on the Sunshine property onto Metropolitan land holdings. The program consists of both IP and resistivity geophysics. Drilling is best deferred until drill stations can be accessed under ground from the Sunshine workings. Drilling will test for the down-dip projection of the Yankee Girl vein as well as the Metropolitan North and South veins.
Merger Group
In 2004, the Company leased the Merger claim groups pursuant to a 25 year lease, renewable for an additional 25 years. The lease, which expires in 2029, required the issuance by Sterling to the lessor of 20,000 shares of Sterling’s common stock and the payment by Sterling of annual advance royalty payments as follows: $2,500 for each of the first five years of the lease; $5,000 for each of the second five years of the lease; $7,500 for each of the next ten years of the lease; and $10,000 for each of the next five years of the lease. In addition, Sterling has agreed to pay a 5% Net Smelter Return. The lease is subject to minimum work obligations of approximately $25,000 annually throughout the term of the lease.
The Merger claim groups consist of 35 patented lode claims. The northerly section of the property (21 patented claims) is part of the CAMP project between CDA Mines, Plainview, and Merger, leased to Silver Valley Resources, Inc. (CDA Mines), and the southerly section (14 patented claims) is located between Sterling’s Sunshine and Link property. Production from the CAMP ground above a minus 900 feet sea level elevation is for the benefit of the CAMP interests, while production from below this elevation (approximately 3600 level Sunshine) is part of the Sunshine Mine and would benefit Sterling.
The Merger claims have received little exploration work, even though numerous mineralized structures strike onto the Merger ground from the ConSil property. Results of 13,200 feet of exploration geophysics performed during 2005 indicate a high-chargeability/ low-resistivity anomaly indicative of sulfide mineralization. This anomaly extended from near
surface to the maximum sensitivity of the test instrumentation in a generally east-west orientation and appears to increase in depth to the east.
Geology of the Merger group is similar to that of the Silver Summit (ConSil) portion of the Sunshine Mine. However, influences by the Fort Wayne and Mineral Point faults and the intersection of the Polaris fault with the Chester fault are poorly understood and present areas for future exploration
Prime targets for future underground exploration and development are the Silver Summit veins explored and mined in the Silver Summit (ConSil) Mine west of the Silver Summit shaft. Additionally, the Silver Summit, Chester, Wire Silver, “D”, and Chester-Polaris “Hook” veins all originate in or extend onto Merger property at depth. An extensive underground exploration program of these structures by Hecla Mining Company was started in the 1980’s on 5400 level of what is now the Silver Summit portion of the Sunshine Mine, but the program was halted and never completed.
As a result of the 2005 surface exploration program, additional exploration activities are being evaluated for 2006 and beyond which may include geochemical sampling, expansion of geophysics and/or surface diamond drilling. At such a time as conditions permit, underground exploration activities will resume at depth on Merger ground. Rehabilitation and development in the Sunshine Mine will be a key factor in this future exploration.
United Mines Group
In 2002, the Company leased the United Mines claim groups Big Creek 1 and Big Creek 3 pursuant to a 10 year lease. Terms for the lease, which expires in 2012, are a 1% Gross Revenue to the lessor from this property. The Company will pay the claim fees for the property.
Silver Valley
In addition to the Sunshine Mine, Sterling controls, by lease, ownership or option, nine claim groups in the Coeur d’Alene Mining District region, most of them close to the Sunshine property. A description of these claims groups is set forth below.
East Silver Valley
Land Position and Ownership
The East Silver Valley (ESV) region is comprised of 280 lode claims covering an area totaling 5,600 acres in the Coeur d’Alene mining district east of a line running on the 115.875° west longitude to the intersection with Placer creek, then downstream to the town of Wallace, Idaho, from there upstream on Camp creek to the intersection with and then following the 115.925° west longitude within Shoshone County, Idaho.
These ESV region holdings are covered by following 6 different claim groups: Beacon Light with 11 claims and 220 acres; Boulder creek with 4 claims and 80 acres; Bullion Creek with 2 claims and 40 acres; Rock Creek with 236 claims and 4720 acres; Military Gulch with 2 claims and 40 acres; and Snowstorm with 25 claims and 500 acres. None of the claims in the ESV group are patented claims. Sterling has acquired all claims and outstanding mineral rights and net smelter returns for these claim groups.
History
The claim groups in the ESV region have various adits and tunnels. Most groups have some surface sampling that indicate at least minor lead, silver, copper sulfide mineralization.
Geology
The ESV region is hosted by the rocks of the Pre-Cambrian Belt super group and the Prichard, Burke, Revett, Saint Regis, and Wallace formations occur both on the surface and subsurface. The Osburn fault cuts the region north of and roughly parallel to the south fork of the Coeur d’Alene River. The Osburn fault is a significant structural boundary in this region with the younger Saint Regis and Wallace formations outcropping on the south side of the fault. To the north of the Osburn fault older formations outcrop along with several igneous intrusions.
The ESV claim groups Beacon Light, Boulder Creek, Bullion Creek, and Rock Creek are all on the south side of the Osburn fault. The Military Gulch and Snowstorm claim groups are to the north of the fault.
All of the ESV claim groups contain classic Coeur d’Alene district narrow vein replacement deposits except the Snowstorm group.
The Snowstorm property lies in the southwest corner of the Montana Copper Sulfide Belt where it overlaps the northeast corner of the Coeur d’Alene Mining District. The mineralization in this group is probably a silver-copper mineralization, Troy-type, disseminated stratabound deposit.
Work Plan
These claim groups are all considered exploration properties. Some claim groups have had more work done on them than others however; the results of these remain unknown and maybe unavailable. Initial efforts should be directed towards obtaining and compiling all data for each claim group. Once all known data is compiled then coherent plans can be developed for each claim group or combinations groups to move evaluation and exploration forward in an efficient manner. Some of the possible work that can be considered for these claim groups are: (i) perform surface geological mapping; (ii) conduct systematic surface soil sampling program to identify any areas of mineralization; (iii) conduct appropriate geophysical programs; and (iv) assess and evaluate access to any adits or other underground workings.
Central Silver Valley
Land Position and Ownership
The Central Silver Valley (CSV) region describes all of Sterling Mining’s lode claim holdings in the Coeur d’Alene mining district between the western boundary of the East Silver Valley region and eastern boundary of the West Silver Valley region within Shoshone County, Idaho. This region contains Sterling Mining’s Sunshine Mine. The Sunshine Mine land holdings are discussed separately and the claims discussed here are in addition to Sunshine property position.
Sterling’s CSV region totals 84 lode claims, none of which are patented, covering an area totaling 1,680 acres, as follows: (i) East-West with 17 claims and 340 acres; (ii) Idaho-Leadville with 25 claims and 500 acres; (iii) JD with 9 claims and 180 acres; (iv) Last Chance with 28 claims and 560 acres; and (v) Royal Apex with 5 claims and 100 acres.
In April 1996, Sterling signed a 20-year lease with Silver Valley Resources Corporation (Coeur Silver Valley, Inc.) that guarantees an annual lease payment to Sterling, as well as a 15% net profits interest from eventual production from the property. For the rest of the claim groups in the CSV, Sterling Mining is retains sole interest and is maintaining these claims under applicable laws and agreements.
History
The following details the history of 2 of these claim groups. The rest of the claim groups have had no production or significant exploration work performed.
East-West Link Claims. Coeur Silver Valley diamond drilled in excess of 15,000 feet in 2000 and 2001 and defined an ore shoot along the Silver Vein, west of historic productive areas and just east of the Link claim. Development into the area began in 2002 from the rehabilitated 2400 level. In late 2003 the ore shoot was drifted on and confirmed. Additional drilling in December 2003 and January 2004 defined another potential ore shoot on Sterling’s Link claim. During the remainder of 2004, drilling drifting and extraction occurred on the Link claim. A total of 1,161 feet of mechanized drift was developed on Sterling’s property with another 684 feet of drift driven to access ore blocks on Sterling ground. The Link shoot was cut on three levels (475, 535 and 595 elevations) and was found to be approximately 150 feet long and from a few to over 5 feet wide. During 2004, Coeur Silver Valley reported mining and milling 11,145 tons of ore from the Link claim. The average grade of this ore was 11.88 ounces per ton. Mining in the first half of 2005 yielded approximately 11,500 tons of ore grading 10.27 ounces of silver per ton for production of approximately 118,544 ounces (to be reconciled with mill records for final 2005 reporting).
Royal Apex. Historical reports indicate several thin veins are found in the Burke Formation on the footwall of the Carpenter Gulch Fault. Historical assays suggest that the silver is carried by tetrahedrite, with gangue minerals consisting of quartz and siderite consistent with Silver Belt style mineralization.
Geology
The CSV region is hosted by the rocks of the Pre-Cambrian Belt super group and the Prichard, Burke, Revett, Saint Regis, and Wallace formations occur both on the surface and subsurface. The Osburn fault cuts the region roughly parallel to the south fork of the Coeur d’Alene River. The Osburn fault is a significant structural boundary in this region with the
younger Saint Regis and Wallace formations outcropping on the south side of the fault. To the north of the Osburn fault older formations outcrop along with several igneous intrusions. In the CSV region all but 100 acres of holdings are south of the Osburn fault. The central part of Coeur d’Alene district’s silver belt occurs to the south of the Osburn fault in the CSV region. All but the Royal Apex claim group are associated with the narrow silver vein replacement deposits of the silver belt.
Work Plan
Sterling has no current plans for East-West group.
West Silver Valley
Land Position and Ownership
The West Silver Valley (WSV) region describes all of Sterling Mining’s lode claim holdings in the Coeur d’Alene mining district west of a line running north on 116.05° west longitude to the intersection with Big creek, then downstream to the mouth of Big Creek, and then running north on the 116.072° west longitude within Shoshone County, Idaho. Total holdings in the WSV region are 167 claims and leases covering 4,281 acres. WSV region unpatented holdings are covered by three claim groups: Alhambra with 8 claims and 160 acres; Highland Surprise with 17 claims and 340 acres; and Pine Creek with 116 claims and 2320 acres. WSV region patented holdings are covered by the following three groups: Silver Bowl with 2 tracts (80 acres) and 11 claims (106 acres): New Era with 5 claims (82 acres); Lookout Mountain Lease (6 government lots, 80 acres) and Idaho State Leases (2 tracts, 1,113 acres).
History
There are underground workings on many of the claim groups and some contain historic production. Most production and underground exploration have occurred on structures and veins exploited in adjacent mines.
Geology
The WSV region is hosted by the rocks of the Pre-Cambrian Belt super group and the Prichard, Burke, Revett, Saint Regis, and Wallace formations occur both on the surface and subsurface. The Osburn fault cuts the region south of and roughly parallel to the south fork of the Coeur d’Alene river. The Osburn fault is a significant structural boundary in this region with the younger Saint Regis and Wallace formations outcropping on the south side of the fault. To the north of the Osburn fault older formations outcrop along with several igneous intrusions. In the WSV region all but 80 acres of holdings are south of the Osburn fault.
The extreme western end of the famed Coeur d’Alene district’s silver belt occurs to the south of the Osburn fault and in the eastern most part of the WSV region. The primary deposit in this region are Lead-Zinc type ores of the Bunker Hill Mine. Therefore, all of the claim groups in WSV are lead-zinc-silver prospects.
MEXICO PROPERTIES
Background
In March 2004, the Company formed a 99% owned subsidiary in Mexico, Sterling Mining de Mexico S.A. de C.V., and through this subsidiary, the Company now owns interests in several mineral properties in the Zacatecas region of Mexico. The Company entered the Mexican market in 2004 with the intention of providing greater diversification of silver interest and a plan to develop mining properties towards near to medium term production, and building a base of prospects and properties that would add to our silver assets. The Company periodically evaluates whether particular Mexican mining concessions it controls would add more value if operated with joint venture partners or if such arrangements would enhance the timing of exploration and development of these projects in support of our overall corporate objectives. The principal projects targeted were the Barones and the San Acacio. In November 2005 the Barones commissioning process began and in late March 2005 processing capability was achieved.
Under Mexico’s mining claim system, generally mining claims/concessions are divided between Exploration concessions (valid for 6 years) and Exploitation concessions (valid for 99 years). Thus, during the Exploration concession stage one has to conduct certain activities, such as a complete land survey of the property and then apply for the Exploitation concession.
Sterling Mining currently has 30 full-time employees in Mexico. These are comprised of a project manager, administrative assistant and two watchmen for the Barones facility and a project foreman.
Regional Geography and Access
Zacatecas is one of the 31 constituent states of Mexico. It is bounded to the north by Durango and Coahuila, to the east by San Luis Potosi, to the south by Aguascalientes and Jalisco, and to the west by Jalisco and Durango. The state shares its name with its capital and chief center of population, the city of Zacatecas.
Zacatecas, the principal city in Zacatecas State, benefits from established infrastructure, an international airport, rail links to the Caribbean coastal town of Vera Cruz and highway to Mexico City and the United States border. The town was the historic center of Spanish silver production in the 15th and 16th Centuries and produced over half the total silver shipped by the Spanish during that period. Many of the mines in the surrounding areas were worked continually up to the time of the Mexican revolution in the early 20th Century, but have not worked since. Penoles, the largest silver mining company in Mexico, operates the largest operation in Mexico in the town of Fresnillo, and there are a number of smaller operations in the Zacatecas area. There is considerable local and regional governmental interest in reviving larger scale mining operations.
Central Mexico is known for silver, lead, zinc and gold deposits. These occur as epithermal veins, locally with bonanza grades, and related manto replacement bodies. Major vein deposits in the area include those at Fresnillo and Zacatecas. Much of the epithermal mineralization is hosted by Lower Tertiary volcanic rocks and is mid-Tertiary in age. Some deposits are hosted by Upper Jurassic-Lower Cretaceous volcanic rocks (e.g., veins around Zacatecas) and Lower to Upper Cretaceous carbonates and siliciclastic sedimentary rocks (e.g., Real de Angeles), although the mineralization is still interpreted to be Tertiary. Cretaceous sedimentary rocks also host the Franciso I. Madero has been postulated to be sedex-type mineralization, although a high temperature replacement origin has also been proposed. The possible sedex origin of Franciso I. Madero was the first indication that syngenetic sulfide mineralization might exist in the Zacatecas area. Volcanic rocks in the lower part of the stratigraphy, the Upper Jurassic to Lower Cretaceous Chilitos Formation, were recognized as submarine sequence containing extensive pillow basalts, but VMS deposits were not considered a serious exploration target.
Access to the Company’s Barones and San Acacio properties is by paved roads to above the city of Zacatecas and extending to the small town of San Acacio near the center of the Veta Grande mine area. From this highway, gravel roads lead to the Barones area, about 4.5km south of San Acacio. From San Acacio, gravel or dirt mine roads extend to several shafts and two main adits. The Barones and San Acacio properties lie at elevations about 7000 ft, in the subdued mountainous terrain north of Zacatecas. Access to the other exploration properties is by paved road from Zacatecas to the communities of General Panfilo Nateras, Ojocaliente and Luis Moya, from which good secondary roads give good access to the properties.
The above map shows the locations of the Company’s various Mexican properties.
Geology
The Zacatecas mining district is located in the east central part of the state of Zacatecas, in north-central Mexico and covers approximately 700 square kilometers located at the transition of the eastern flank of the southern Sierra Madre Occidental province and the northwester limit of the Mesa Central physiographic province. The Sierra Madre Occidental province, one of the most extensive volcanic fields of the world, is a massive pile of nearly horizontal volcanic rocks that underlies a vast plateau, largely of siliceous volcanic rocks of the upper volcanic series rest discordantly either on the lower volcanic series, composed mainly of intermediate lavas, or on metamorphic rocks of Precambrian or Paleozoic age and igneous or sedimentary rocks of the Mesozoic era (The Pimienta series).
Local Geology at Zacatecas
The oldest rocks in the Zacatecas District are schists which are overlain by volcanic sedimentary sequence. Tertiary conglomerate overlies basal andesites.The conglomerate is covered by tuffs and rhyolitic flows. Dikes (TR) and rhyolitic necks crosscut this rock package. This volcanic sequence is associated with a caldera lies south of Zacatecas, in which a concentric and radial system can be distinguished.
The most prominent structural features of the area are north-south trending extension faults, northwest-southeast trending tension fissures north of the caldera and radial fissures within the caldera.
The most economically significant structures are the silver-lead-zinc-copper-gold bearing vein-fracture systems that are emplaced within the NW-SE trending tension fissures. These are located north of Zacatecas and include El Bote, La Cantera, Mala Noche, Veta Grande, Panuco and La Plomosa vein systems. South of Zacatecas, within the caldera, silver-gold bearing vein-fracture systems (Orito veins) are orientated in a radial geometry . The fissure veins are believed to have originated as tension fractures caused by the crustal bulging related to the development of the caldera. Collapse of the cauldera caused widening of the concentric fractures and development of additional minor structures. Extensional faulting and at least 500 meters of erosion followed emplacement of the veins.
Deposit Types
The San Acacio Mine is a classic epithermal silver gold (high Sulphide) deposit in a number of parallel veins. There is no documented mineralization in the wallrock. The Veta Grande veins are predominantly silver-bearing with minor gold and base metals.
The veins at the other concessions such as Aventurera, Nueva Andromeda, Tesorito and Tabasquena have a similar origin; all are high sulphide epithermal veins. Little information is available on their mineralogical makeup, but they are all assumed to be silver-bearing with minor base metals. These are less explored than the San Acacio, but examination of dumps supports these assumptions.
The Vetas Negras area is believed to be intermediate between low sulphide epithermal and replacement deposits in carbonate rocks.
Mineralization
The mineralized structures in the Zacatecas mining district can be divided into three vein systems, based on their orientation, age and ore assemblages: (i) the silver-base metal system, considered the most important; (ii) the silver-gold selenium system; and (iii) the fluorite bearing system. The silver-base metal system is the most extensive and economically important and has been exploited in the Panuco, Veta Grande, Mala Nocher, and Cantera zones, as well as in the Bote and San Rafael areas (the latter located south of the Cantera vein). (In the last areas, the silver-gold selenium system is also present.
The silver-base metals system is formed by long veins with an orientation of N 45º to 85ºW, and dips of 50º to 70º SW and 64º to 75º NE. The vein branches occasionally display a horsetail structure while others form zones of sheeted, essentially parallel, stringers of variable thickness. The lengths of the main veins vary from 4 to 16 km with widths of 1 to 30 m. The veins usually have a branching form, both in horizontal as well as vertical section. The branches merge and split repeatedly but intersections are rare. Sometimes the branches join with the main vein to form ellipsoidal forms but more commonly the branches diverge and pinch out. Also, the veins may double up, run parallel and either split again or become wider than what was formally the main vein. These splits are important since deviation from the general strike and dip occurs in these places and the result is a widening of the vein.
Work Program
Independent First Phase Exploration programs are recommended for the Exploration properties, to consist of basic mapping, sampling surveying and possible small geophysical programs with the goal of providing specific drill targets for each property. A first phase exploration property for San Acacio will provide underground access and sampling and preparation for a second phase of drilling. As a well defined target exists in the San Acacio vein system, this drilling phase need not be contingent on the first phase. However, the second phase drilling program for the exploration properties will be contingent on favorable data generated from the initial phase.
The Company’s goals for its Mexican properties are: (i) to expand Barones production capacity during 2006; (ii) to develop an exploration program for its properties, ranking them by priority for near term production potential; (iii) to hire a local geologist, and to conduct ongoing evaluation of the properties, metallurgical tests and drilling to arrive at a scoping study to prioritize our next steps in Mexico; and (iv) to hire sufficient competent personnel to administer a growing operation in Mexico.
The Barones Silver Tailings Project
Land Position and Ownership
The Barones concession, located four kilometers north of Zacatecas, is approximately 40 hectares in size, of which the Barones tailings cover 12.5 hectares. The Barones Tailings concession consists of a thiosulfite vat leaching plant designed to process the Barones tailings. An on-site 18-vat plant and supporting infrastructure has been constructed by Sterling, and this facility commenced production in late March 2005. Currently with the inclusion of San Acacio material in processing, the vats are processing 280 to 340 tons per cycle. The plant is capable of producing both precipitate and dore bars. Sterling is currently shipping the precipitate product to a local smelter.
The Company has signed a 15 year lease agreement with the property owner and paid $25,000 USD for the right of the concessions. There is no requirement for annual lease payments. The lease has a provision where 50% of the net profits up to a maximum of $4.55 million USD is paid to the owner in shares of Company stock valued at $10.00 per share. Once the threshold of $4.55 million has been paid, a net smelter return of 0.75% is payable for the duration of the lease.
Geology
The Barones tailings cover around 12.5 hectares to a depth of up to 30 meters. The material is finely ground and readily accessible on the surface.
Processing Plant
The construction of the facilities at the plant resulted in eighteen concrete VATS designed to process silver bearing material using thiosulfite. In addition support buildings and facilities for the utilization of copper scrap in copper tanks (used in the precipitate producing process) were constructed.
The Barones plant began initial processing operations in late March 2005 and has been considered in the start-up stage as experience with the plant is providing management information for optimization of processing results. In the second quarter of 2005 processing work was directly related to testing the Baroness tailings and the material from the nearby San Acacio project to determine initial processing rates and results.
In the third quarter production growth occurred with monthly processing of dry tons reaching 8,300 tons in the month of September, with each concrete vat processing 280 to 330 tons per cycle depending partly on the degree of finer or coarser material processed from the San Acacio project.
History
The vat leach plant was initially constructed in 1992 and rented by Morgain Minerals Ltd. The plant remained idle for 8 years as a result of a land dispute. The tailings have been sampled by numerous projects including trenches, pits, auger holes and some limited RVC drilling. In 1996 Schlumberger was contracted to evaluate the tailings. In 2005 Sterling successfully processed tailings and other surface material from the nearby San Acacio mine thereby increasing the amount of raw material for processing through the Barones plant.
Work Plan
Sterling has planned a 50-hole, 2000 meter drill program that has the objective of defining a potential for the project. Sterling will evaluate the current plant as it reaches a steady production output. The results of this evaluation will help determine the feasibility of a proposed phase II. The plant has 30 employees including a plant manager, plant supervisor, four security personnel and twenty other workers at the plant. Sterling’s local office consists of the General Manager for Mexican operations, an office manager and two secretaries.
San Acacio, Mexico
Land Position and Ownership
The San Acacio Mine concession contains the southeastern half of the Veta Grande vein in the Zacatecas mining district. The concession is located 6 km due north of the city of Zacatecas. There are numerous underground workings in the concession but all historic workings are largely inaccessible due to caving and flooding.
In 2004 the prior operator failed to complete their option on the property and Sterling negotiated an agreement for the concession. The lease agreement was between Minera San Acacio, S.A. DE C.V. and Sterling Mining DE Mexico and contains a minimum term of five years with a purchase option for $3,500,000 USD. The lease requires an annual lease payment of $150,000 and contains a net smelter return royalty, paid quarterly, ranging from 2.5% to 5.0% based on silver prices ranging from $5.00 to $10.00.
History
Although complete history and production records are not available, this district has hosted mining from before colonial times. Full scale production ended in the early 1900’s in response to the Mexican revolution. Sporadic mining occurred during the 1930’s and 40’s. Small scale and some illegal mining continued from that time until the present. Several companies have controlled and explored the concession since 1992. These companies have conducted several drill programs with generally poor results due to bad ground conditions and old workings. In spite of the problems encountered, this prior exploration has demonstrated potential for the concession.
Geology
The Veta Grande vein is hosted by the volcanic rocks of the Chilitos formation. The numerous veins that together form the Veta Grande vein system consist of epithermal mineralization and filling of faults and fractures in the host rock. The Veta Grande vein strikes northwest and dips 65°southwest. The length of the identified vein is 7 km, of which only 5 km have been exploited. The bulk of production from the mine has occurred in the oxidized zone but some limited mining has occurred from the sulphide zone.
Work Plan
Sterling has successfully processed material from San Acacio dumps and backfill with positive results. Sterling has permitted an expansion of the Barones plant for production processing of the San Acacio material at 667 tons per day. Sterling has initiated rehabilitation efforts to gain entry to one or more adit levels of the mine. Once safe entry to the underground working is established the vein can be assessed for geologic and metallurgic purposes. Additional drill programs will be developed from both surface and underground. The goal of future drilling will be to extend the system both on strike and down dip.
El Morro Area
Land Position and Ownership
Sterling has established a property position in the Morro Hill area. This area is located west of the town of General Panfilo Nateras and south of the highway to Ojocaliente and includes the La Griega, (Melanie), Aventura, Nueva Andromeda concessions. The Company entered into a mining claim exploration concession that expires in 2009.
History
No recent work has been done on any of these concessions. However, the area supported a number of colonial mines that produced from the near surface oxidized zone. The concessions have numerous open stopes, small shafts, and open cuts. Past production was limited and unknown. At least one other company is conducting exploration in the area.
Geology
The veins of the El Morro are typical hosted by granites. The veining is typically polymetallic replacement deposits consisting of silver veins, skarns and wollastonite deposits. The three concessions Sterling controls host silver rich epithermal veins. Geology for these concessions is not well known and limited.
Work Plan
All concessions require basic exploration. This should include data compilation, base map generation, field mapping and sampling. Geophysics surveys should also be considered with goal of drill hole definition and proposals.
Vetas Negras/Esperanza
Land Position and Ownership
The Vetas Negras (Black Veins) veins are located 13 kilometers to the east of the municipality of Luis Moya, and 60 km. from the city of Zacatecas. Access is from Zacatecas using the highway that leads to Aguascalientes, through Ojocaliente and Luis Moya. The Vetas Negras property, though small, lies adjacent to an area which has been thoroughly drilled by Mineral Frisco. It has been reported that Mineral Frisco intends to mine this adjacent property by open pit methods with an
estimated production of 5000 tons per day. The property consists of two titles, Ampliacion Vetas Negras and 2a Ampliacion de Vetas Negras. These properties total 86 hectares. About 8 shallow pits and three cuts are present on the property. The Company entered into a mining claim exploration concession that expires in 2009.
History
The property has not received the benefit of modern exploration methods and so is at an early stage of exploration
Geology
The deposit is hosted by sedimentary rocks. The sedimentary section is the Cuesta del Cura Formation and Indidura Formation of Cretaceous age, cut by Miocene rhyolites and silicified breccia. The Cuesta del Cura Formation is mainly argillic limestone with lenses of black chert. The Upper Cretaceous Indidura Formation includes alternating grey argillaceous limestone and calcareous limonite. Outcrops of Miocene rhyolite east of the area are dense rhyolite composed of quartz, feldspar, and clay. Fine sandy recent sediments cover much of the area.
The mineralized zones are bodies of silicified breccias composed of limestone fragments in a matrix of grey to black silica containing silver, and quartz veins, trending northwest-southeast and approximately 0.60 meters wide, mineralized by iron oxides and argentite in quartz gangue. The breccia bodies are from 70 to 300 meters long and 20 - 50 meters wide.
Work Plan
Past sampling from the property have low, but interesting silver grades. Development potential exists if a large volume of the mineralized breccia can be delineated. Preliminary mapping and sampling program by Sterling is planned with a budget of about $10,000. From the initial program, drill targets may be developed.
Tesorito - Tabasquena
Land Position and Ownership
The Tabasqueña Mine concession is located in the Ojocaliente mining district in the state of Zacatecas, Mexico. This concession is located several kilometers east of highway 45 and north of the road between the towns of Ojo Caliente and Jarillas. The concession contains 2 vertical shafts and approximately 180 meters of underground workings to a depth of 50 meters. The Company entered into a mining claim exploration concession that expires in 2009.
This property consists of 6 separate mining concessions: La Tabasqueña; Mina Del Tesorito; La Querencia; Aracelli; Angustias; and Melania. Total surface area of the concession is 287.2 hectares. This concession lies at the north end of the Milagros vein system. The Milagros mine at the southern end of the vein system has been mined extensively in the past.
History
Two companies have operated in the concession since 1980, Minera Las Cuevas (Cuevas) 1981 and Servicios Industriales Peñoles (Peñoles) 1988-1989. Both companies have mapped and sampled the underground workings. Cuevas drilled 5 exploration holes and Peñoles drilled 10 holes. In addition, Peñoles conducted surface trenching and sampling and IP geophysics surveys. Most of this data is available on various maps and cross sections.
Geology
The basal unit of the geologic section exposed in this concession is volcanic andesites of the Chillitos formation. The Chillitos formation is overlain by conglomerates of Zacatecas Red Conglomerate. The top of the exposed section are extrusive Rhyolite flows. The Milagros vein system cuts this section on a north northwest trend for approximately 10 miles.
The concession hosts 2 veins of the Milagros vein system, the Tabasqueña vein and the La Ninã vein. The Tabasqueña dips approximately 60° west and the La Ninã vein dips 55° east. These 2 veins project to an intersection approximately 130 meters deep. Both veins are hosted entirely within the Zacatecas Red Conglomerate.
Work Plan
Sterling has proposed a $163,000 exploration plan to further evaluate this property. This plan calls for drilling an additional 1,315 meters of drilling on 50 meter centers along the length of the vein.
OTHER EXPLORATION PROSPECTS
The Company has rights to projects that are located within the Montana Copper Sulphide Belt, a 1600 square mile area in Sanders County, Montana.
Lucky Luke Copper-Silver Prospect
Land Position and Ownership
The Lucky Luke prospect consists of 20 unpatented lode mining claims located on U.S. Forest Service property about 10 miles northwest of Thompson Falls, in Sanders County, Montana The claims are located in Sections 17, 18, 19 and 20, Township 22 North, Range 30 West. Access is via the Little Beaver Creek road, west of Montana State Highway 200.
The Company acquired its interest in the Lucky Luke prospect pursuant to a mineral lease agreement dated November 26, 2004 (the “Timberline Agreement”), whereby the Company acquired exploration rights for a 20-year period, with option to renew for an additional 20-year-plus period, with respect to the Lucky Luke, Minton Pass, East Bull and Standard Creek properties (see below). In consideration for the lease, the Company forgave indebtedness of approximately $65,000, reimbursed expenses of approximately $20,000, and agreed to annual advance royalty payments of up to $20,000, based on the number of claims still subject to the agreement. The lease agreement also provides for a 1% net smelter return royalty on all minerals mined or removed from the property covered by the lease agreement.
Geology
Quartz veins at the Lucky Luke adit cut St. Regis Formation argillites and quartzites approximately 100 feet above the St. Regis/Revett contact. Revett quartzites outcrop on the ridge above the adit. Middle Revett siltites are exposed on the south slope.
Exposures near the adit are generally dipping northwest at 15 to 24 degrees. To the north and east, bedding attitudes are much steeper and the mineralized veins are near the relatively flat-lying apex of a domal structure. This dome is bounded on the west by a north-northwest trending fault that has brought the Revett up to the surface on the west side. To the south, a large-scale tear fault separates the dome from an overturned section of strata of Burke and Wallace Formations.
Geologic mapping and rock chip sampling confirmed that the copper-silver mineralization seen in the veins is dominantly chalcocite and tetrahedrite with some bornite. Revett exposures to the south also exhibit pyrite with dendritic manganese stain. Rock chip samples in this location show weak copper-silver anomalies.
It is postulated that the mineralized horizons or quartzite in the lower Revett were the source beds for the vein mineralization seen in the Lucky Luke adit. Quartz veins similar to these are regionally related to mobilization from the underlying stataform copper-silver mineralization.
History
In the mid-1920’s, the Lucky Luke adit was driven on a mineralized quartz vein. Reports indicate that the adit was extended for 1,000 feet; the size of the dumps confirms this report. In 1926, the Lucky Luke reportedly produced ore which silver, copper and gold.
The property was subsequently acquired by Luke Williams . Exploration work during this ownership included several shallow trenches that crosscut at least two quartz veins that had strike lengths in excess of 3,000 feet.
In 1983, the property was acquired by US Borax, as a result of a reconnaissance exploration program conducted for Revett copper-silver deposits. Borax staked 76 claims on the prospect, and conducted mapping and sampling. Borax and its successor Kennecott Exploration Company held the property until the early 1990’s.
Work Plan
A 1”=500’ scale geologic map of the entire project area should be made to check on existing mapping. A 1”=100’ scale geologic map of the adit and trench area should also be completed. Two 800 foot drill holes would test the two mineralized Revett horizons. The caved Lucky Luke adit should also be reopened to allow underground mapping and sampling.
East Bull Copper-Silver Prospect
Land Position and Ownership
The East Bull prospect consists of 19 unpatented lode mining claims located on U.S. Forest Service property about one mile due east of Bull Lake in Lincoln County, Montana. The claims are located in Sections 2 and 11, Township 28 North, Range 32 West. Access is via Forest Service roads along the South and North Fork of the Bull River, to the east of Montana State Highway 56. The Company acquired its interest in the East Bull Prospect pursuant to the Timberline Agreement, described above.
Geology
The property has local exposures of north-striking and moderately east dipping St. Regis and Wallace Formations, both Proterozoic in age. The Burke Formation and the base of the Lower Revett Formation are exposed along the southeast shore of Bull Lake, about a mile west of the claims. The northwest-trending Bull Lake Fault crosses the east side of the property and has down-dropped Wallace Formation strata on the east. The majority of the property is covered with glacial till.
Potential for stratiform copper-silver mineralization in the Upper or Lower Revett exists on both sides of the Bull Lake Fault. The Bull Lake Fault is a major north trending structure, easily identified on the ground, with much local folding and slickensides. A major reason to pursue this target is the presence of the Bull Lake Fault - a large un-tested structure. Target depths will range from 1000 feet on the west side to +2000 feet on the east side.
History
In 1983, the property was acquired by US Borax, as a result of a reconnaissance exploration program conducted for Revett copper-silver deposits. Borax staked 23 claims on the prospect, and conducted mapping and sampling. Borax and its successor Kennecott Exploration Company held the property until the early 1990’s.
Work Plan
More detailed mapping of the property is recommended. This mapping could use newly exposed areas created by recent logging roads to more accurately define the location of the Wallace/St. Regis/Revett Formation rock units on the property.
Standard Creek Copper-Silver Prospect
Land Position and Ownership
The Standard Creek prospect consists of 29 unpatented lode mining claims located on U S. Forest Service property about 6 miles due east of the Montanore deposit and 21 miles south of Libby, in Lincoln County, Montana. The claims are located in Sections 19, 20, and 30, Township 27 North, Range 30 West. Access is via Forest Service road number 231. The Company acquired its interest in the East Bull Prospect pursuant to the Timberline Agreement, described above.
Geology
The property is underlain by the Revett, St. Regis and Wallace Formations. Strata from all three formations strike northwest and dip moderately eastward with dips becoming flatter to the east. A pair of northeast-trending faults have been identified, each having down-dropped northwest sides. Displacement along these faults is in the range of 200-400 feet. Numerous copper, silver and lead bearing quartz veins occur in the St. Regis and Wallace Formations.
The 1987 drilling by Borax encountered only trace amounts of pyrite, chalcopyrite and bornite.
The claims were staked on the basis of the high grade veins found in the overlying Wallace Formation. The presence of mineralization above the permissive underlying Revett stratigraphy was the main reason for acquiring this prospect.
History
In the early 1980’s, the property was acquired by US Borax, as a result of a reconnaissance exploration program conducted for Revett copper-silver deposits. Borax staked 115 claims on the prospect, and optioned 14 more from a local prospector. Borax conducted mapping and sampling and drilled one 1,450 foot core hole. Borax and its successor Kennecott Exploration Company held the property until the early 1990’s
Work Plan
A detailed, 1”=500’ scale geologic map of the entire project area should be made to check on existing mapping. Further sampling on the Midas dump would be helpful in defining metal ratios seen in the vein mineralization. Additional research into the geology and production from the Midas Mine should also be conducted.
Minton Pass Copper-Silver Project
Land Position and Ownership
The Minton Pass Silver-Copper prospect consists of 20 unpatented lode mining claims located on U.S. Forest Service property east of Trout Creek, Montana. The claims are located in Sections 20 and 21, Township 24 North, Range 32 West, MPM. Access is via well maintained U.S. Forest services roads from Trout Creek. The Company acquired its interest in the East Bull Prospect pursuant to the Timberline Agreement, described above.
Geology
The Minton Creek Pass claim group hosts metasedimintary rocks of the Belt Supergroup. Vast areas of the Belt Supergroup contain stratiform silver-copper occurrences, which are hosted by quartzites of the Revett Formation. These are found primarily within the Montana Copper Sulphide Belt, which covers some 1600 square miles.
History
The prospect was discovered in the 1960’s and has been explored intermittently since that time. Kennecott maintained a core group of claims in the area from 1966 to 1992. In the early 1970’s the prospect was explored by Hillside Mines, Inc. Exploration focused on two mineralized horizons. Mapping, sampling and trenching were conducted to better define the extent of the mineralization. A short adit was driven and a limited drilling program conducted.
In 1981 Asarco expanded their land position to several hundred claims. Exploration, including some drilling, continued in an attempt to further define the extent of the mineralized zones. Asarco abandoned the property in 1992.
Work Plan
A detailed, 1”=500’ scale geologic map of the entire project area should be made to check on existing mapping.
JE Project
Land Position and Ownership
The JE Project is located along the Bull Lake Corridor, on a line between the Troy and Rock Creek deposits, roughly ten miles southeast of the Troy and three miles northwest of the Rock Creek. The Montanore (Rock Lake) deposit is roughly two miles east of the Rock Creek.
In January, 2003, Sterling Mining Company leased the JE Project, a set of 11 unpatented mining claims in the Montana Copper Sulfide Belt. The lease agreement provides for annual payments increasing from $3,000 to $20,000 by 2009 and for a 2% production royalty on sales of metals extracted from the property.
Geology
The JE claim group hosts metasedimentary rocks of the Belt Supergroup. These are found primarily within the Montana Copper Sulphide Belt, which covers some 1600 square miles. The lower member of the Revett Formation hosts Stratabound mineralization and this formation is about 1300’ thick in the JE project area.
At least three NNW trending faults cut across the JE Project area. The Snake Creek-Copper Lake Fault and the Lost Girl Fault may control stratabound mineralization within the lower Revett Formation.
Significant copper/silver mineralization is not exposed on the property. US Borax has drilled an exploration drill hole. This drill hole contained 265’ of mineralization that averaged 0.32% copper and 0.41 oz/t silver. Within this zone, a 90’ interval averaged 0.47% copper and 0.70 oz/t silver.
History
In the late 1980’s, US Borax and Santa Fe Minerals explored the Belt rocks of NW Montana for additional deposits similar to ASARCO’s Troy mine. Initial discoveries were made at surface at Montanore and Rock Creek. US Borax completed detailed geological mapping at a scale of 1:6,000 over a very large area within and adjacent to the property. Santa Fe Minerals performed limited geological mapping at a scale of 1:24,000.
This mapping identified a potential target at the intersection of the Copper Lake (a controlling structure on mineralization in the Rock Creek ore-body) and the Wolf Creek faults. US Borax and Santa Fe completed nine diamond drill holes in the area under investigation. Kennecott acquired the property through the acquisition of US Borax by RTZ. Kennecott held the property for 12 years before abandoning them.
Sterling Mining Company leased the JE property from the current claim holders, Jim Ebisch and Ryan Reich, and located an additional 24 lode claims to increase the property package to its current size.
Work Plan
Sterling Mining has proposed additional Surface geological mapping that will generate a base geological map and Identify surface lithologies and rock packages.
In addition, a drill program is recommended at the JE property to test the hypothesis that copper/silver grades increase towards the Snake Creek - Copper Lake Fault. It is proposed that five drill holes be completed on the property.
Trout Creek Project
Land Position and Ownership
Sterling has acquired lease rights to 18 claims of the Trout Creek deposit in Northwestern Montana (JESTC Group), located approximately six miles west of the town of Trout Creek. The Trout Creek property expands Sterling Mining’s presence in the Montana Silver-Copper Sulfide Belt.
Geology
Trout Creek is within the Pre-Cambrian Best Basin, along the western flank of the northeast-trending anticline. An anomalously thick quartzite section identified on the Trout Creek property could coincide with a mineralized oxidation/reduction front.
History
Exploration thus far has consisted of geologic mapping, outcrop sampling and diamond drilling, results of which indicated a strong potential for the discovery of significant, economically viable Troy-type silver-copper mineralization.
Work Plan
Sterling Mining has planned additional surface geological mapping that will generate a base geological map and identify surface lithologies and rock packages. In addition all available information should be compiled and analyzed. This work will permit an effective evaluation of the potential for the Trout Creek property.
Glossary
Adit: An opening driven horizontally into the side of a mountain or hill for providing access to a mineral deposit.
Andesite: Dark, fine grained extrusive volcanic rock.
Alteration: Any physical or chemical change in a rock or mineral subsequent to its formation. Milder and more localized than metamorphism.
Anticline: An arch or fold in layers of rock shaped like the crest of a wave.
Assay: A chemical test performed on a sample of ores or minerals to determine the amount of valuable metals contained.
Base Metal: Any non-precious metal (e.g. copper, lead, zinc, nickel, etc.).
Bedding: The arrangement of sedimentary rocks in layers.
Bornite: Copper sulfide mineral. A copper ore mineral.
Breccia: A rock in which angular fragments are surrounded by a mass of fine-grained minerals.
Caldera: A large basin shaped volcanic depression of a roughly circular shape.
Chalcocite: Copper sulfide mineral. A primary copper ore mineral.
Concentrate: A fine, powdery product of the milling process containing a high percentage of valuable metal.
Conglomerate: A sedimentary rock consisting of rounded, water-worn pebble or boulders cemented into a solid mass.
Contact: A geological term used to describe the line or plane along which two different rock formations meet.
Core: The long cylindrical piece of rock, about an inch in diameter, brought to surface by diamond drilling.
Crosscut: A horizontal opening driven from a shaft and (or near) right angles to the strike of a vein or other orebody.
Development: Work carried out for the purpose of opening up a mineral deposit and making the actual ore extraction possible.
Development Drilling: Drilling to establish accurate estimates of mineral reserves.
Diamond Drill: A rotary type of rock drill that cuts a core of rock that is recovered in long cylindrical sections, two centimeters or more in diameter.
Dilution: (mining) Rock that is, by necessity, removed along with the ore in the mining process, subsequently lowering the grade of the ore.
Dip: The angle at which a vein, structure or rock bed is inclined from the horizontal as measured at right angles to the strike.
Disseminated Ore: Ore carrying small particles of valuable minerals spread more or less uniformly through the hose rock.
Discordant: Non parallel contact between rock formations.
Dore: Unparted gold and silver poured into molds when molten to form buttons or bars. Further refining is necessary to separate the gold and silver.
Drift: A horizontal underground opening that follows along the length of a vein or rock formation as opposed to a cross-cut which crosses the rock formation.
Due Diligence: The degree of care and caution required before making a decision; loosely, a financial and technical investigation to determine whether an investment is sound.
Environmental Impact Study: A written report, compiled prior to a production decision that examines the effects proposed mining activities will have on the natural surroundings.
Epigenetic: A mineral deposit formed later than the formation of the host rock.
Epithermal: Low temperature, hydrothermal, vein forming deposit created near the surface of the earth
Exploration: Work involved in searching for ore, usually by drilling or driving a drift.
Fissure: An extensive crack, break or fracture in rocks.
Float: Pieces of rock that have been broken off and moved from their original location by natural forces such as frost or glacial action.
Floatation: A milling process in which valuable mineral particles are induced to become attached to bubbles and float, and others sink.
Footwall: The rock on the underside of a vein or ore structure.
Fracture: A break in the rock, the opening of which allows mineral bearing solutions to enter. A “cross-fracture” is a minor break extending at more-or-less right angles to the direction of the principal fractures.
Galena: Lead sulfide, the most common ore mineral of lead.
Gangue: Vein minerals that have no economic value
Geophysical Survey: Indirect methods of investigating the subsurface geology using the applications of physics including electric, gravimetric, magnetic, electromagnetic, seismic, and radiometric principles.
Grade: The average assay of a ton of ore, reflecting metal content.
High Grade: Rich ore. As a verb, it refers to selective mining of the best ore in a deposit.
Host Rock: The rock surrounding an ore deposit.
Level: The horizontal openings on a working horizon in a mine; it is customary to work mines from a shaft, establishing levels at regular intervals, generally about 50 meters or more apart.
Limestone: A bedded, sedimentary deposit consisting chiefly of calcium carbonate.
Lode: A mineral deposit in solid rock.
Mill: A processing plant that produces a concentrate of the valuable minerals or metals contained in an ore. The concentrate must then be treated in some other type of plant, such as a smelter, to affect recovery of the pure metal.
Mineral: A naturally occurring homogeneous substance having definite physical properties and chemical composition and, if formed under favorable conditions, a definite crystal form.
Mineral Resource: A deposit or concentration of natural, solid, inorganic or fossilized organic substance in such quantity and at such grade or quality that extraction of the material at a profit is currently or potentially possible.
Mineralized Material or Deposit: A mineralized body which has been delineated by appropriate drilling and/or underground sampling to support a sufficient tonnage and average grade of metal(s). Under SEC standards, such a deposit does not qualify as a reserve until a comprehensive evaluation, based upon unit cost, grade, recoveries, and other factors, conclude economic feasibility.
Mineralization: The presence of economic minerals in a specific area or geological formation.
Muck: Ore or rock that has been broken by blasting.
Net Profit Interest: A portion of the profit remaining after all charges, including taxes and bookkeeping charges (such as depreciation) have been deducted.
Ore: Material that can be mined and processed at a positive cash flow.
Orebody: A natural concentration of valuable material that can be extracted and sold at a profit.
Ore Reserves: The calculated tonnage and grade of mineralization which can be extracted profitably; classified as possible, probable and proven according to the level of confidence that can be placed in the data.
Patent: The ultimate stage of holding a mineral claim in the United States, after which no more assessment work is necessary because all mineral rights have been earned.
Patented Mining Claim: A parcel of land originally located on federal lands as an unpatented mining claim under the General Mining Law, the title of which has been conveyed from the federal government to a private party pursuant to the patenting requirements of the General Mining Law.
Porphyry: Any igneous rock in which relatively large crystals, called phenocrysts, are set in a fine- grained groundness.
Prospect: A mining property, the value of which has not been determined by exploration.
Probable (Indicated) Reserves. Reserves for which quantity and grade and/or quality are computed from information similar to that used for proven (measure) reserves, but the sites for inspection, sampling, and measurement are farther apart or are otherwise less adequately spaced. The degree of assurance, although lower than that for proven (measured) reserves, is high enough to assume continuity between points of observation.
Proven (Measured) Reserves. Reserves for which (a) quantity is computed from dimensions revealed in outcrops, trenches, workings or drill holes; grade and/or quality are computed from the results of detailed sampling and (b) the sites for inspection, sampling and measurement are spaced so closely and the geologic character is so well defined that size, shape, depth and mineral content of reserves are well-established.
Raise: A vertical or inclined underground working that has been excavated from the bottom upward.
Reclamation: The restoration of a site after mining or exploration activity is completed.
Recovery: The percentage of valuable metal in the ore that is recovered by metallurgical treatment.
Reserves: That part of a mineral deposit which could be economically and legally extracted or produced at the time of the reserve determination. Reserves are customarily stated in terms of “Ore” when dealing with metalliferous minerals.
Resource: The calculated amount of material in a mineral deposit, based on limited drill information.
Sample: A small portion of rock or a mineral deposit, taken so that the metal content can be determined by assaying.
Shaft: A vertical or steeply inclined excavation for the purpose of opening and servicing a mine. It is usually equipped with a hoist at the top which lowers and raises a conveyance for handling personnel and materials.
Shear or Shearing: The deformation of rocks by lateral movement along numerous parallel planes, generally resulting from pressure and producing such metamorphic structures as cleavage and schistosity.
Silicified: Pore filling and mineral replacement by silica and silica minerals.
Step-out Drilling: Holes drilled to intersect a mineralized horizon or structure along strike or down dip.
Stockpile: Broken ore heaped on the surface, pending treatment or shipment.
Stope: An underground excavation from which ore has been extracted either above or below mine level.
Stratigraphy: Strictly, the description of bedded rock sequences; used loosely, the sequence of bedded rocks in a particular area.
Stratabound: A mineral deposit confined to a single stratigraphic unit. Typically disseminated but can occur as a veinlets.
Strike: The direction, or bearing from true north, of a vein or rock formation measured on a horizontal surface.
Sublevel: A level or working horizon in a mine between main working levels.
Sulfide: A compound of sulfur and some other element.
Syngenetic: A mineral deposit formed at the same time as the formation of the host rock.
Tetrahedrite: A copper silver sulfide mineral. An important copper and silver ore mineral.
Unpatented Mining Claim: A parcel of property located on federal lands pursuant to the General Mining Law and the requirements of the state in which the unpatented claim is located, the paramount title of which remains with the federal government. The holder of a valid, unpatented lode mining claim is granted certain rights including the right to explore and mine such claim under the General Mining Law.
Volcanic: Pertaining to the activities, structure, or rock types of a volcano.
Vein: A mineralized zone having a more or less regular development in length, width and depth which clearly separates it from neighboring rock.
Wall Rocks: Rock units on either side of an orebody. The hanging-wall and footwall rocks of an orebody.
Waste: Barren rock in a mine, or mineralized material that is too low in grade to be mined and milled at a profit.
ITEM 3.