Item 2.
Properties.
Oman Project
The Oman Project is a copper project located in the Semail Ophiolite Belt of the South Batinah Coastal Region of the northern part of the Sultanate of Oman. As of the date of this Report, the Oman Project consists of the Block 5 prospect area (“Block 5”) and the Block 6 prospect area (“Block 6”) which are adjacent to one another.
Copper is a ductile metal with very high thermal and electrical conductivity, and for this reason, copper is widely used as a thermal conductor, an electrical conductor, a building material, and a constituent of various metal alloys. Since copper is ductile and a good conductor of electricity and heat, its main use is in the manufacture of appliances where there is a need for a good conductor of heat and electricity such as generators, household and car electrical wiring, as well as electronic appliances. Presently, copper is used mainly in power generation and transmission; however, it is also used in the manufacture of electronic products, building construction, and the production of industrial machinery and transportation vehicles. Moreover, the excellent alloying properties of copper have made it indispensable when combined with other metals, such as zinc (to form brass), tin (to form bronze), or nickel.
Copper is also an internationally traded commodity, and its prices are determined by the major metals exchanges - New York Mercantile Exchange (COMEX), the London Metals Exchange (LME) and the Shanghai Futures Exchange (SHFE). Prices on these exchanges generally reflect the worldwide balance of copper supply and demand and can be volatile and cyclical. During 2010, LME spot copper prices averaged $3.42 per pound and ranged from $2.76 per pound to $4.42 per pound. In general, demand for copper reflects the rate of underlying world economic growth, particularly in industrial production and construction.
Location and Access
The Block 5 and Block 6 prospect sites are located approximately 150km northwest of Muscat, the capital city of the Sultanate of Oman, and approximately 30km to the south of the regional port city of Sohar in the South Batinah Coastal Region. Block 5 and Block 6 are regionally well placed in relation to existing infrastructure (i.e., power, water and communications ) and serviced by a national highway between Muscat and Dubai in the United Arab Emirates (UAE), which supports a number of secondary tarred and gravel roads which cross the project areas. Access to the area is primarily by a well maintained tarred road and secondary gravel roads which are connected to the main national highway between Muscat and Dubai. The regional port, located in the city of Sohar, lies approximately 40km north of the center of Block 5 and approximately 80km north of the center Block 6.
Block 5 covers approximately 858.60 square kilometers and Block 6 covers approximately 609.63 square kilometers. The property boundaries for Block 5 and Block 6 have not been surveyed by a registered surveyor or physically demarcated. Boundary coordinates have been provided for by the Government of Oman on issue of the exploration permits and have not been verified by the Company. As such, the Company intends to engage the services of a registered surveyor to survey the property boundaries. Nevertheless, the exploration team of the Company has checked the property boundaries by means of hand-held GPS devices and has confirmed there are no material errors.
The climate in the Oman is hot and dry in the interior and hot and humid along the coast. Summer temperatures in the capital of Muscat and other coastal locations often climb to approximately 109°F, with high humidity. Winters are generally mild, with lows averaging about 63°F. Temperatures are similar in the interior, although they are more moderate at higher elevations. Rainfall throughout the Oman is minimal, averaging only about four inches (100mm) per year, however, run-off water in the mountains can be heavy causing short term flooding. Due to the historical favorable weather conditions in the Oman, we anticipate that as a result of the weather conditions, we believe that we will be able to undertake our exploration activities for the entire length of the year, with revised schedules for periods of extreme temperatures as needed.
Nature and Extent of the Company=s Rights to the Oman Project
Block 5
The rights to explore the land which constitutes Block 5 is controlled by Al Fairuz Mining Company, LLC, a company incorporated under the laws of the Sultanate of Oman (“Al Fairuz”). Any and all exploration to be carried out by Al Fairuz is conducted under Exploration Permit No. WTS/T/10/2010 (the “Block 5 Exploration Permit”), which was originally granted to Al Fairuz on June 30, 2009. The Block 5 Exploration Permit is valid for twelve months and is renewable annually for an extended period of twelve (12) months provided that the extension application is submitted three (3) months from the time of expiry. As of the date of this Report, the Block 5 Exploration Permit is in good standing will expire on June 29, 2011 unless the same is renewed for another twelve (12) month period.
On or about October 27, 2009, African Precious Minerals Limited, a company incorporated under the laws of the British Virgin Islands (“APM”), Al Fairuz and the Al Fairuz shareholders entered in that certain earn-in agreement (the “Block 5 Agreement”) which outlines the terms and conditions of the joint venture (the “Block 5 Joint Venture”) between the parties with respect to the exploration, development and mining of Block 5. The Block 5 Agreement provides APM with the right to earn up to a 50% participating interest in and to the Block 5 prospect site as well as a 50% interest in the share capital of Al Fairuz, subject to the terms and conditions contained in the Block 5 Agreement.
On January 20, 2010, APM, APM Mining, Al Fairuz and the Al Fairuz shareholders entered into that certain Novation Agreement (the “Novation Agreement) whereby Al Fairuz Mining and the AFM Shareholders agreed to allow APM to transfer and assign all of its rights, obligations, liabilities, duties and responsibilities under the Block 5 Agreement to APM Mining, an affiliate of APM.
On February 28, 2010, and in connection with the acquisition by the Company of all the issued and outstanding equities of APM Mining, APM Mining Al Fairuz and the Al Fairuz shareholders entered into that certain letter agreement (the “Letter Agreement”) which amended the Block 5 Agreement (as amended by the Novation Agreement) to provide that (i) the Company was permitted to acquire APM Mining, and thus the rights in and to the Block 5 Agreement and (ii) in exchange for the Company issuing 2,500,000 shares of common stock to Yasser Al Fairuz (a shareholder of Al Fairuz), the Company now has the right to earn up to a 65% participating interest in and to the Block 5 prospect site as well as a 65% interest in and to the share capital in Al Fairuz, subject to the terms and conditions contained in the Block 5 Agreement.
On March 8, 2010, the Company concluded its acquisition of APM Mining, and as of said date, acquired all of the rights, obligations, liabilities, duties and responsibilities of APM Mining under the Block 5 Agreement. The Block 5 Agreement, as amended by the Novation Agreement and the Letter Agreement (collectively referred to herein as the “Block 5 Agreement”) provides that after (i) Gentor BVI pays to Al Fairuz approximately 30,000 Rial for the reimbursement of various initial exploration expenditures (the “Initial Expenditure Expenses”) and (ii) Gentor BVI completes a Joint Ore Reserves Committee (“JORC”) compliant bankable feasibility study (the “Bankable Feasibility Study”), to be prepared by an internationally recognized consulting firm, reflecting the feasibility, financial viability and proposed plan for mining a prospective ore body or deposit of minerals and other minerals within Block 5, which study shall include such information that may be required to enable a banking or other financial institution or investor to determine whether or not to advance funds in order to establish a mine at the Block 5 prospect site, then Gentor BVI will be granted a 65% participating interest in and to Block 5 as well as a 65% interest in and to the share capital in Al Fairuz.
Until such time as Gentor BVI has acquired a 65% interest in and to the share capital in Al Fairuz, Gentor BVI has been appointed to serve as the project manager of the Block 5 Joint Venture to oversee all technical operations and exploration activities, until the Management Committee (as defined herein) determines otherwise. As the project manager for the Block 5 Joint Venture, Gentor BVI in responsible to, with such assistance from the Al Fairuz shareholders as may reasonably be required, obtain and maintain all permits, consents, approvals or other authorizations necessary or desirable for the performance of the exploration activities at the Block 5 prospect site, and any and all costs associated with the obtaining or maintaining of such permits, consents, approvals or other authorizations shall be borne solely by Gentor BVI. Under the terms of the Block 5 Agreement, there is no definitive date on which Gentor BVI must complete the Bankable Feasibility Study referenced above. As the project manager of the Block 5 Joint Venture, Gentor BVI must prepare an annual exploration program and budget for its proposed exploration activities that must be approved by a management committee of Al Fairuz (the “Management Committee”) which is comprised of four (4) representatives, two (2) of whom are appointed by Al Fairuz and two (2) of whom are appointed by Gentor BVI. All decisions to be undertaken by the Management Committee shall be decided upon by a majority vote, and in the event of a deadlock, the deadlock shall be settled by mediation and/or arbitration in accordance with the Rules of Arbitration of the International Chamber of Commerce.
Despite the fact that, as of the date of this Report, Gentor BVI has not completed the Bankable Feasibility Study, in light of the good working relationship between the parties, and in light of the fact that the Company has paid the Initial Expenditure Expenses to AL Fairuz on or about January 24, 2011, Al Fairuz provided Gentor BVI with a 40% interest in and to the share capital of Al Fairuz. The acquisition of the foregoing 40% in and to the share capital of Al Fairuz does not impair and/or limit the right of Gentor BVI to earn up to a 65% participating interest in and to the Block 5 prospect site as well as a 65% interest in and to the share capital in Al Fairuz upon completion of the Bankable Feasibility Study.
In the event that Gentor BVI no longer desires to devote its time and resources to the exploration, development and/or mining of Block 5, then Gentor BVI has the right to withdrawal from the Block 5 Joint Venture as follows: (i) If Gentor BVI desires to withdrawal from the Block 5 Joint Venture before the completion of the Bankable Feasibility Study, then Gentor BVI may do so at any time and for any reason so long as Gentor BVI provides at least ninety (90) days written notice to Al Fairuz and the Al Fairuz shareholders of its intent to the withdrawal from the project; moreover, Gentor BVI shall have no obligation whatsoever to pay any monies to Al Fairuz and/or the Al Fairuz shareholders in connection with said withdrawal. However, since Gentor BVI does own a 40% in and to the share capital of Al Fairuz, said interest is subject to buy-sell provisions agreed to between the parties; and (ii) If Gentor BVI desires to withdrawal from the Block 5 Joint Venture after the completion of the Bankable Feasibility Study, then Gentor BVI may do so at any time and for any reason so long as Gentor BVI provides at least thirty (30) days written notice to Al Fairuz and the Al Fairuz shareholders of its intent to the withdrawal from the Block 5 Joint Venture; moreover, Gentor BVI shall have no obligation whatsoever to pay any monies to Al Fairuz and/or the Al Fairuz shareholders in connection with said withdrawal. However, in this instance, Gentor BVI will be entitled to receive a Net Smelter Royalty (defined as a 2% of the gross revenues received by Al Fairuz Mining from the sale of end products produced from mining activities over that part of the Block 5 prospect site after deduction of agreed upon expenses) until such time as the aggregate amount of Net Smelter Royalty paid to Gentor BVI equals to the aggregate amount of means those costs incurred by Gentor BVI in respect of its exploration activities which have been approved in the reports submitted by Gentor BVI to the Management Committee. Again, since Gentor BVI does own a 40% in and to the share capital of Al Fairuz, said interest is subject to buy-sell provisions agreed to between the parties.
Block 6
The rights to explore the land which constitutes Block 6 is controlled by Al Zuhra Mining Company, LLC, a company incorporated under the laws of the Sultanate of Oman (“Al Zuhra”). Any and all exploration to be carried out by Al Zuhra is conducted under Exploration Permit No. MOCI/C/5-10/10/2010 (the “Block 6 Exploration Permit”), which was originally granted to Al Zahra on February 17, 2010. The Block 6 Exploration Permit is valid for twelve months and is renewable annually for an extended period of twelve (12) months provided that the extension application is submitted three (3) months from the time of expiry. As of the date of this Report, the Block 6 Exploration Permit is in good standing will expire on February 16, 2012 unless the same is renewed for another twelve (12) month period.
On or about January 29, 2010, APM Mining, Al Zuhra, Sheikh Ahmed Farid bin Mohammed al Awalaki and Qannas bin Ahmed Farid Al Awalaki entered in that certain agreement (the “Block 6 Agreement”) which outlines the terms and conditions between the parties with respect to the exploration, development and mining of Block 6. The Block 6 Agreement provides APM with the right to earn up to a 70% participating interest in the share capital of Al Zuhra, subject the terms and conditions contained in the Block 6 Agreement. Concurrently with the execution of the Block 6 Agreement, APM Mining had the right to acquired a 20% participating interest in the share capital of Al Zuhra, and the Company anticipates that is will formally acquire said 20% interest within the next few weeks.
On March 8, 2010, the Company concluded its acquisition of APM Mining, and as of said date, acquired all of the rights, obligations, liabilities, duties and responsibilities of APM under the Block 6 Agreement and the right to acquire the 20% participating interest in the share capital of Al Zuhra.
The Block 6 Agreement provides that (i) within thirty (30) days after the completion of the airborne and pilot drilling activities, and provided that the results of the pilot drilling are positive and Gentor BVI proceeds with the exploration activities at the Block 6 prospect site, then Gentor BVI will be entitled to acquire an additional 40% participating interest in the share capital of Al Zuhra and (ii) after Gentor BVI completes a JORC compliant bankable feasibility study (the “Bankable Feasibility Study”), to be prepared by an internationally recognized consulting firm, reflecting the feasibility, financial viability and proposed plan for mining a prospective ore body or deposit of minerals and other minerals within Block 6, which study shall include such information that may be required to enable a banking or other financial institution or investor to determine whether or not to advance funds in order to establish a mine at the Block 6 prospect site, then Gentor BVI will be granted a 70% participating interest in and to the share capital in Al Zuhra.
Until such time as Gentor BVI has acquired a 70% participating interest in and to the share capital in Al Zuhra, Gentor BVI has been appointed to serve as the project manager of the Block 6 exploration activities to oversee all technical operations and exploration activities related thereto, until the Management Committee (as defined herein) determines otherwise. As the project manager for the Block 6 prospect site, Gentor BVI in responsible to, with such assistance from the Al Zuhra shareholders as may reasonably be required, obtain and maintain all permits, consents, approvals or other authorizations necessary or desirable for the performance of the exploration activities at the Block 6 prospect site, and any and all costs associated with the obtaining or maintaining of such permits, consents, approvals or other authorizations shall be borne solely by Gentor BVI. While Gentor BVI shall use its commercially reasonable efforts to oversee and manage the exploration activities at the Block 6 prospect site, there is no definitive date on which Gentor BVI must complete the Bankable Feasibility Study referenced above. As the project manager of the Block 6 prospect site, Gentor BVI must prepare an annual exploration program and budget for its proposed exploration activities that must be approved by a management committee of Al Zuhra (the “Management Committee”) which is comprised of four (4) representatives, two (2) of whom are appointed by Al Zuhra and two (2) of whom are appointed by Gentor BVI. All decisions to be undertaken by the Management Committee shall be decided upon by a majority vote, and in the event of a deadlock, the deadlock shall be settled by mediation and/or arbitration in accordance with the Rules of Arbitration of the International Chamber of Commerce.
In the event that Gentor BVI no longer desires to devote its time and resources to the exploration, development and or mining of Block 6, then Gentor BVI has the right to withdrawal from Al Zuhra as follows: (i) If Gentor BVI desires to withdrawal from Al Zuhra before the completion of the Bankable Feasibility Study, then Gentor BVI may do so at any time so long as Gentor BVI written notice to Al Zuhra that the Block 6 prospect site does not warrant any further work; moreover, Gentor BVI shall have no obligation whatsoever to pay any monies to Al Zuhra and/or the Al Zuhra shareholders in connection with said withdrawal. However, if Gentor BVI withdrawals prior to the completion of the airborne and pilot drilling activities, Gentor BVI will be required to sell back its 20% participating interest in the share capital of Al Zuhra for nominal consideration; and (ii) If Gentor BVI desires to withdrawal from Al Zuhra after the completion of the Bankable Feasibility Study, then Gentor BVI may do so at any time and for any reason; moreover, Gentor BVI shall have no obligation whatsoever to pay any monies to Al Zuhra and/or the Al Zuhra shareholders in connection with said withdrawal. However, in this instance, Gentor BVI will be entitled to receive a Net Smelter Royalty (defined as a 2% of the gross revenues received by Al Zuhra from the sale of end products produced from mining activities over that part of the Block 6 prospect site after deduction of agreed upon expenses) until such time as the aggregate amount of Net Smelter Royalty paid to Gentor BVI equals to the aggregate amount of means those costs incurred by Gentor BVI in respect of its exploration activities which have been approved in the reports submitted by Gentor BVI to the Management Committee. In either event, and subject to the foregoing, since Gentor BVI does own a participating interest in and to the share capital of Al Zuhra, said interest is subject to buy-sell provisions agreed to between the parties.
Map
Below is a map of the location of the Block 5 prospect site and the Block 6 prospect site within the Middle East region.
Below is a boundary map of the location of the Block 5 prospect site.
Below is a boundary map of the location of the Block 6 prospect site.
History of Operations in the Region
The Oman Mountains region in northern Oman was known as a major producer of copper during the Mesopotamian era. The exploitation and smelting of copper continued up to around 940AD, which is evident from great slag piles, ancient smelters and excavations on and near present day outcropping copper deposits.
Modern copper exploration and mining activities on or near Block 5 and Block 6 started around 1974 when Prospection Ltd, a Canadian exploration company, obtained the rights to conduct copper and chrome exploration across the entire extent of the Semail Ophiolite Belt.
In 1978, Prospection Ltd identified and explored 352 target areas which yielded economic copper deposits such as Aarja, Bayda, Lasail and Rakah. In the area covered by the Block 5 and Block 6, a total of 46 targets were identified and explored by techniques such as geochemistry, geophysical methods including airborne electromagnetics, ground electromagnetic surveys, gravity surveys, induced polarization (IP) surveys and diamond drilling.
Prospection Ltd identified 26 target areas at the Block 5 prospect site. These copper and chromite targets were identified from aerial spotting of gossans by helicopter and later by means of the results of a regional Airborne Electromagnetic Survey. During 1974 Prospection Ltd covered the entire Semail Ophiolite Belt with an airborne Electromagnetic Survey on 330m line spacing. All 26 target areas were subjected to initial field investigations which included basic mapping, geochemistry, varying from grab sampling to soil- and stream sediment sampling; and various geophysical investigations. In areas covered by younger rocks the emphasis was placed on geophysical techniques such as ground electromagnetic surveys, gravity surveys and Induced Polarization (IP) surveys. The targets at Hara Kilab, Mahab 2, Mahab 3 and Mahab 4 returned positive exploration results and were recommended for drilling. A total of 2,452.92m were completed in 35 diamond drill holes on the Hara Kilab, Mahab 2, Mahab 3 and Mahab 4 occurrences in Block 5. Results from these exploration programs were sourced from historic reports with drill collars cited on local grids. The exact collar positions, intersected lithologies and assay results could not be verified without the drill collar beacons and drill core.
Around 1983, the Government of Oman through the Oman Mining Company (“OMCO”), a Government owned company, obtained the mineral rights from Prospection Ltd and the exploitation of the Aarja, Bayda and Lasail deposits, to the north of Block 5, commenced following the construction of a copper concentrator, smelter and refinery complex near Lasail.
In order to maintain a steady supply of ore, the Government of Oman engaged Bishimetal Exploration Co., Ltd., a Japanese consultancy on contract (“Bishimetal”) to conduct further exploration around the Lasail complex area. From 1984 to 1987 Bishimetal identified copper mineralization in various places around the known deposits. The exploration area included the northern half of Block 5 were Bishimetal conducted 1: 50 000 scale detailed mapping.
In 1988 the Government of Oman requested the government of Japan to evaluate the possibility of developing the copper deposits at Rakah and Hayl as Safil. As such, a Cooperative Mineral Exploration Program, through the Japanese International Cooperation Agency (the “JICA”) and the Metal Mining Agency of Japan (the “MMAJ”) followed whereby exploration and development studies were carried out in the Block 5 and Block 6 prospect areas, amongst others. By 1995 the focus of the Cooperative Mineral Exploration Program shifted to the central and southern Batinah Coastal region. By 2000 JICA delineated three massive sulphide ore bodies at neighboring Ghuzayn and evaluated a number of prospects located in the Block 5 and Block 6 prospect areas. OMCO continued its exploration, development and mining activities until 2009 until such time as the exploration rights to Block 5 and Block 6 were granted to Al Fairuz and Al Zuhra, who then in turn turned over the management of said exploration activities to Gentor BVI.
Work Completed by the Company at the Oman Project
All of the work undertaken by the Company with respect to the Oman Project is exploratory in nature. Around April 2010, the Company commissioned and completed a 7,227km line of a Versatile Time Domain Electro-Magnetic Survey (“VTEM”) covering both Blocks 5 and 6. The airborne helicopter VTEM survey identified approximately fifty-six (56) geophysical anomalies. Ground truthing and geological mapping followed. Twenty four (24) holes totaling 2,861m of fence line target drilling commenced in June 2010. Five of the 56 anomalies identified by the VTEM were tested and two (2) new volcanogenic massive sulfide (‘VMS”) ore deposits were identified.
The Company has also been reviewing, collecting and analyzing all available information regarding the Oman Project which the Company intends to use for Geographic Information System (GIS) and geological modeling purposes.
Company=s Proposed Plan of Exploration and/or Development of the Oman Project
The Block 5 prospect site is without known reserves and our proposed exploration program is exploratory in nature. We are currently working with various consultants to review the available data relating to the Oman Project and we intend to continue to work with said consultants to refine a formal exploration program.
Based on the information available to us, we intend to continue to refine our exploration program continue our exploration activities, which includes testing of identified anomalies, exploration drilling and resource drilling. As such, we intend to undertake the following work at the Oman Project during the calendar year 2011, which we estimate, based on information available to us, will cost approximately $5,300,000:
•
Further data gathering and geological compilation of new data and existing GIS database.
•
Utilizing remote sensing techniques to identify alteration associated with mineralization.
•
Trial ground geophysics using IP and EM.
•
9,700m resource drilling at Maqail South and Mahab 4.
•
4,000m exploration drilling over known untested targets.
We cannot provide any assurance that the exploration, development and/or extraction of any copper at the Oman Project to be ACommercially Viable@, that is, that the potential quantity of copper and their market value would, after consideration of the costs and expenses that would be required to explore, develop and/or extract any such copper deposits (if any), would justify a decision to do so. Moreover, we believe that further exploration beyond the scope of our planned exploration activities will be required before a final evaluation as to the economic feasibility of the Oman Project can be determined, and until we reviewed and analyzed the results of our current planned exploration activities, we cannot estimate the scope and/or cost of any further exploration activities at this time.
Plant and Equipment
Since our inception, we have purchased a number of property and equipment assets such as diamond saw for core cutting, four (4) all-terrain-vehicles for off road transport, downhole cameras, and other associated exploration equipment, tools and software.
Geology and Mineralization
The Oman is geologically significant as it is the host to substantial Paleozoic and Mesozoic oil and gas resources in shelf carbonates and sediments onto which the Semail Ophiolite Complex was thrusted. The desert conditions mean that exposure is almost 100% and the extensive scientific literature on the oil and gas industry provides an excellent framework to assess the ophiolites. The regional geological history of the Semail Ophiolite Complex places the formation of the belt in the Mid-Cretaceous era, which implies that the belt formed during the wider Tethyan Orogen.
The Semail Belt is believed to have formed in a proto-ocean located approximately where The Persian Gulf and The Gulf of Oman are today. This proto-ocean formed in the Mid-Cretaceous but closed again in the Late Cretaceous. As the proto-ocean closed, the oceanic crust which had formed as the continental crust drifted apart was pushed up onto the Arabian Plate to the west to form the Semail Ophiolite. In detail, the formation of the Semail Ophiolite Belt took place in a number of discrete but related thrusting episodes.
Locally, the Semail Ophiolite is a 600km long, 100-150km wide and 5-10km thick nappe located along the Gulf of Oman. The belt consists of a large thrust slice including 5-6km of upper mantle peridotites and 4-5km of oceanic crustal rocks. Most of this mantle sequence consists of tectonised harzburgite.
Originally, mantle diapirs were the feeders for the ridge segment and magma chambers. Tholeiitic picritic melts generated the crustal sequence, which includes as much as 4km of layered mafic and ultramafic rocks of a cumulate sequence overlain by isotropic gabbros, diorites and trondjhemites. The upper part of the ophiolite includes 2km of pillow lavas which, in northern Oman, have been divided into five main lava units. The Semail Ophiolite is covered by a 2.5km thick blanket of pelagic sediments which include metalliferous material.
The copper mineralisation is hosted within numerous VMS deposits within the ophiolite belt. More than 150 VMS deposits have been identified within the 600km strike length of the Semail Ophiolite Belt; most cluster in groups, each within a 25-50km radius. The Geotimes Unit is a sequence of basaltic pillow lavas up to 1.5km thick and forms the footwall to many of the main massive sulphide deposits, as well as abundant iron and manganese rich sediments. The morphology, ore types, mineralogy and geochemistry of the deposits are similar to the deposits of Cyprus. However, a few of the deposits have mineralogical and geochemical characteristics more similar to massive sulphides currently forming in immature back-arc rifts.
Idaho Project
The Idaho Project is a molybdenum-tungsten project located in East-Central Idaho and is sometimes referred to herein as the AIMA Mine.@
Molybdenum is a refractory metal with very unique properties. Molybdenum, when added to plain carbon and low alloy steels, increases strength, corrosion resistance and high temperature properties of the alloy. The major applications of molybdenum containing plain and low alloy steels are automotive body panels, construction steel and oil and gas pipelines. When added to stainless steels, molybdenum imparts specialized corrosion resistance in severe corrosive environments while improving strength. The major applications of stainless steels are in industrial chemical process plants, desalinization plants, nuclear reactor cooling systems and environmental pollution abatement. When added to super alloy steels, molybdenum dramatically improves high temperature strength, creep resistance and resistance to oxidation in such applications as advanced aerospace engine critical components. The effects of molybdenum additions to steels are not readily duplicated by other elements and as such are not significantly impacted by substitution of other materials; as such, Molybdenum has few substitutes. Other uses for Molybdenum include fuel desulfurization catalysts, lubricants and alloy element in gas turbine engine components. Furthermore, Molybdenum, as a high-purity metal, is also used in electronics such as flat-panel displays and in super alloys used in aerospace.
Location and Access
The IMA Mine is located on the western edge of Lemhi County in east Central Idaho, which is near the major communities of Salmon and Challis. U.S. Highway 93 runs between Salmon and Challis. Access to the IMA mine is obtained from Highway 93 as follows: At Mile Post 264 (which is approximately 18 miles North East of Challis), turn south on the paved Pahsimeroi Road (a.k.a. AFarm to Market Road@), then proceed southerly 24 miles to the Hamlet of Patterson, then turn East on the Patterson Creek Road (a 4x4 access road) and proceed for 1 mile to the IMA Mine.
Nature and Extent of the Company=s Rights to the Idaho Project
Effective as of March 1, 2007, Bardswich LLC, an Idaho limited liability company (ABardswich LLC@), an entity that is owned and controlled by Lloyd J. Bardswich, the former president, treasurer, chief financial officer of the Company, and IMA-1, LLC, a Montana limited liability company (the AIdaho Claim Owner@) entered into that certain Mineral Lease Agreement and Option to Purchase (the AIdaho Option Agreement@) which relates to twenty one (21) patented mining claims (the AIMA Mine@) located over approximately 376 acres of real property and four other parcels of approximately 216 acres in Lemhi County, Idaho (collectively, the AOptioned Properties@). In accordance with the terms of the Idaho Option Agreement, concurrently with the execution of the Idaho Option Agreement, Bardswich LLC paid the Idaho Claim Owner $40,000 in cash as the first Advanced Minimum Royalty Payment (as such term is defined herein). On July 23, 2007, Bardswich LLC and Gentor Idaho entered into that certain assignment agreement (the AAssignment Agreement@) whereby Bardswich LLC assigned all of its rights, title and interest in and to the Idaho Option Agreement in exchange for $40,000 in cash and 500,000 shares of the Company=s common stock. The Idaho Option Agreement grants the Company (through Gentor Idaho) the exclusive right (the AExploration and Mineral Right@) to enter the Optioned Properties (and thus the IMA Mine) for the purpose of exploring and developing the Optioned Properties (and thus the IMA Mine), as well as, removing and selling for our own account any and all minerals, mineral substances, metals ore bearing materials and rocks of any kind. The Idaho Option Agreement also grants the Company an option (the AOption Right@) to purchase the Idaho Claim Owner=s rights to the Optioned Properties, including but not limited to the IMA Mine, for a total purchase price of $5,000,000 (the APurchase Price@), excluding therefrom the right of the Idaho Claim Owner to receive a three percent (3%) royalty on net revenue generated from the sale of any molybdenum, copper, lead, and zinc recovered from the IMA Mine and a five percent (5%) royalty on the net revenue generated from the sale of all other ores, minerals, or other products recovered from the Optioned Properties (collectively, the ANet Smelter Return Royalties@). The duration of the Idaho Option Agreement is indefinite so long as the Company makes the necessary scheduled payments of advanced minimum royalty payments (each an AAdvanced Minimum Royalty Payment@) under the Idaho Option Agreement. Bardswich LLC made an initial payment of $40,000 in cash to the Idaho Claim Owner upon execution of the Idaho Option Agreement and the Company made an additional payment of $60,000 to the Idaho Claim Owner on the six month anniversary date of the signing of the original Option Agreement as well as another additional payment of $100,000 during the month of March 2008. According to the terms of the Idaho Option Agreement, additional payments of: (i) $100,000 in cash was due on or before the second anniversary of the Idaho Option Agreement (March 1, 2009), (ii) $100,000 in cash is due on or before the third anniversary of the Idaho Option Agreement (March 1, 2010), (iii) $200,000 in cash is due on or before the fourth anniversary date of the Idaho Option Agreement (March 1, 2011), and (iv) $200,000 in cash is due on or before each subsequent anniversary date of the Idaho Option Agreement thereafter until the Purchase Price is paid or the Idaho Option Agreement is terminated or cancelled. On March 1, 2009, the Idaho Claim Owner agreed to accept four equal payments of $25,000 each on each of March 1, May 1, July 1, and September 1, 2009 in lieu of the $100,000 payment that was due in full on March 1, 2009 (the second anniversary date of the Idaho Option Agreement). The $25,000 payments that were due, respectively, on March 1, 2009, May 1, 2009, July 1, 2009 and September 1, 2009 have been paid to the Idaho Claim Owner. On February 14, 2010, the Idaho Claim Owner agreed to accept four equal payments of $25,000 each on each of March 1, May 1, July 1, and September 1, 2010 in lieu of the $100,000 payment that would be due in full on March 1, 2010 (the third anniversary date of the Idaho Option Agreement). The $25,000 payments that were due, respectively, on March 1, 2010, May 1, 2010, July 1, 2010 and September 1, 2010 have been paid to the Idaho Claim Owner. On March 8, 2011, the Idaho Claim Owner agreed to accept a payment of $100,000 in lieu of the $200,000 payment that was due in full on March 1, 2011 (the fourth anniversary date of the Idaho Option Agreement). The foregoing agreed upon $100,000 payment has been paid to the Idaho Claim Owner. All payments that become due to the Idaho Claim Owner subsequent to March 2011 remain as stipulated in the original Idaho Option Agreement (i.e. $200,000 per annum). To the extent that the Company makes any Advanced Minimum Royalty Payments, the Company is entitled to receive a corresponding credit against any required Net Smelter Returns Royalties that are otherwise required to be paid to the Idaho Claim Owner under the Idaho Option Agreement. Moreover, the Company is also entitled to receive a credit equal to all Advanced Minimum Royalty Payments and payments of Net Smelter Return Royalties against the Purchase Price. In the event the Idaho Claim Owner notifies the Company that the Company has breached a term, condition or covenant of the Idaho Option Agreement (other than the payment of monies due and payable under the Idaho Option Agreement), then the Company has at least sixty (60) days (twenty (20) days for any monetary payment obligation) to cure any such breach. If the Company cannot cure, or begin to cure, any such breach within the cure period, then the Idaho Claim Owner can terminate the Idaho Option Agreement. The Company also has (i) the right to terminate the Idaho Option Agreement at any time and (ii) the right to assign all or any portion of the Idaho Option Agreement to any third party.
Also, on July 3, 2007, the Company (through Gentor Idaho, its wholly owned subsidiary) acquired fee simple title to a 75 acre parcel of land (the A75 Acre Parcel@) located in Lemhi County, Idaho from Richard Bergeman and Victoria Bergeman for a purchase price of $169,000. The 75 Acre Parcel also includes 72 miner=s inches of water rights. At or around the same time that the Company, through Gentor Idaho, acquired the 75 Acre Parcel, through a staking program, the Company also acquired 114 lode claims and 5 placer claims on federal lands (Athe Staked Claims@) located in Lemhi County, Idaho. The Company is required to pay $16,660 per annum ($140 per Staked Claim) on or before September 1st each year to the USBLM in order to retain the Staked Claims. However, on September 1, 2009, and in order to conserve working capital, the Company decided to pay $9,940 to USBLM to retain 3 of the 5 placer claims and 68 of the 114 lode claims. In June 2009, the 75 Acre Parcel was sold for $169,000 to a vendor (the “Buyer”) in exchange for a reduction in accounts payable that the Company owed this vendor. However, in connection with the sale of the 75 Acre Parcel to the Buyer, the Company was granted (1) a 10-day right of first refusal to purchase the 75 Acre Parcel in the event the Buyer received a bona-fide offer to sell said property and (2) an option to repurchase the 75 Acre Parcel for a purchase price of $169,000 at any time before or on December 31, 2010. Even though the Company did not exercise its option to repurchase the 75 Acre Parcel for a purchase price of $169,000 on or before December 31, 2010, the Company is currently negotiating with the Buyer to purchase the 75 Acre Parcel for approximately $169,000.
Map
Below is a map of the location of the IMA Mine.
History of Operations
The IMA Mine related to an underground mining operation that closed in 1957. Prior to its closure, the IMA Mine was the fifth largest United Stated producer of tungsten, having mined over 500,000 tons of ore between 1937 and 1952. The lowest level of the IMA Mine intersected the top of a molybdenum-bearing intrusive. From 1978 to 1981, Inspiration Development Corporation (AInspiration@), a subsidiary of Anglo-American Corporation, entered into agreements relating to the Optioned Properties in 1978 and spent Two Million Dollars ($2,000,000.00) on the Optioned Properties to ascertain the commercial viability of the tungsten potential. The work performed by Inspiration included (i) a drilling program from underground and the surface, (ii) rehabilitation of the AD@ level of the IMA Mine and (iii) completion of basic underground development for extraction of the tungsten ore.
Present Condition of the IMA Mine
We have entered into the D level and the Zero level of the IMA Mine. The D level is in good condition and the Zero Level is in poor to fair condition. The estimated costs to secure the safety of both levels to the extent necessary to satisfy general Mine Safety and Health Administration (the AMSHA@) regulations have not yet been determined. Access to the lowest level (-375) is blocked by fill. We have not attempted to enter the -375 level due to the costs anticipated and due to the fact that there is water discharging from the lower level which we believe contains metals slightly in excess of allowable limits permitted by the EPA and will require treatment to meet the allowable limits. Therefore, we do not intend to enter the -375 level and incur any liability for this water discharge until such time that we ascertain the economic merits of the property and the costs of the necessary water treatment.
Work Completed by the Company at the IMA Mine
We rehabilitated an old building of approximately 3,000 square feet on the IMA Mine-site and are presently using it for storage of materials. We engaged contractors to drill water wells, construct water and septic sewer systems and install electrical power to both the 75 Acre Parcel and one of the valley parcels of land. We have completed construction of a 1,000 square foot office building and a 2,000 square foot shop for core logging and sawing on one of the valley parcels of land. We were able to occupy the foregoing structure on or around March 1, 2008. We have improved the access roads to the Zero level and the D level and have constructed drill sites and sumps. Despite the foregoing, from around December 31, 2008 to the date of this Report, the Company has not undertaken any substantive exploration and/or other activities at the Idaho Project.
Current State of Exploration and/or Development of the IMA Mine
As of the date of this Report, ten (10) holes have been completed. Despite the foregoing, from around December 31, 2008 to the date of this Report, the Company has not undertaken any substantive exploration and/or other activities at the Idaho Project.
Company=s Proposed Plan of Exploration and/or Development of the IMA Mine
The IMA Mine is without known reserves and our proposed exploration program is exploratory in nature.
As of the date of this Report, no material exploration activities are being conducted at Idaho Project. We intend to raise additional capital and/or seek a joint venture partner to finance the further exploration of the potentially large molybdenum bearing intrusive located below the existing mine workings of the Idaho Project. However, there is no assurance that we will be able to raise any additional capital and/or find a joint venture partner who can provide the necessary capital and/or financing. Moreover, we cannot provide any assurance that the exploration, development and/or extraction of tungsten or molybdenum would prove to be ACommercially Viable@, that is, that the potential quantity of tungsten or molybdenum and their market value would, after consideration of the costs and expenses that would be required to explore, develop and/or extract any such tungsten or molybdenum deposits (if any), would justify a decision to do so.
We have previously engaged the consulting services of Wardrop Engineering, Inc. of Toronto, Canada (AWardrop@) to review the available data on the IMA Mine and to recommend an exploration program. Based on the Wardrop recommendation, in July of 2007, we commenced a two (2) phase exploration program of the IMA Mine to assess whether any Commercially Viable tungsten or molybdenum bearing mineral deposits are present. Phase 1 of our exploration program generally consisted of surface exploration drilling and Phase 2 of our exploration program generally consisted of the same. We have completed Phase 1 and Phase 2 of our exploration program, and based on the results, data and analysis derived therefrom, we believe it is prudent to continue our exploration of the IMA Mine and we intend to commence a Phase 3 exploration program of the IMA Mine as soon as we can obtain the additional financing necessary to enable us to continue such exploration; however, there is no assurance that we will be able to obtain the necessary financing and/or commence Phase 3 of exploration program. Moreover, we may, prior to the commencement (if at all) and/or completion of Phase 3 of our exploration program, determine that Commercially Viable tungsten or molybdenum deposits do not exist within the IMA Mine, in which event we anticipate that we will terminate our proposed Phase 3 exploration program. Even if we commence and complete Phase 3 of our exploration program, we may not be able to determine if Commercially Viable tungsten or molybdenum deposits exist within the IMA Mine or if additional exploration is required to make such determination. We believe that it will cost approximately $1,000,000 to complete a Phase 3 exploration program.
Plant and Equipment
Since our inception, we have purchased two (2) diamond saws for core cutting, two (2) all-terrain-vehicles for off road transport, three (3) used travel trailers for temporary living space and a bulldozer for road maintenance and snow removal. During the 2009 calendar year, we sold one (1) of the three (3) travel trailers and one (1) of the all-terrain-vehicles, and during the 2010 calendar year we sold the other two (2) trailers and the other all-terrain-vehicle.
Geology and Mineralization
The IMA Mine was a producer of tungsten and closed in 1957. The tungsten was contained in quartz veins in metamorphosed sedimentary rocks. The lower levels of the mine intersected a granitic intrusive stock which was covered by the over-lying metamorphosed sedimentary rocks, molybdenum occurs as disseminations and within quartz veins in the granite. In addition, tungsten, silver, copper, lead and zinc are also present in the intrusive itself and in the quartz veins.
Item 3.