ITEM 2:
PROPERTIES
Natural Gas, Oil and NGL Reserves
The following tables summarize information regarding our and ARP’s estimated proved natural gas and oil reserves as of December 31, 2014. Proved reserves are the estimated quantities of crude oil, natural gas, and NGLs which geological and engineering data demonstrate with reasonable certainty to be recoverable in future years from known reservoirs under existing economic and operating conditions, i.e. prices and costs as of the date the estimate is made. Prices include consideration of changes in existing prices provided only by contractual arrangements, but not on escalations based upon future conditions. The estimated reserves include reserves attributable to our and ARP’s direct ownership interests in oil and gas properties as well as the reserves attributable to ARP’s percentage interests in the oil and gas properties owned by Drilling Partnerships in which ARP owns partnership interests. All of the reserves are located in the United States. We and ARP base these estimated proved natural gas, oil and NGL reserves and future net revenues of natural gas, oil and NGL reserves upon reports prepared by independent third-party engineers. We and ARP have adjusted these estimates to reflect the settlement of asset retirement obligations on gas and oil properties. A summary of the reserve reports related to our and ARP’s estimated proved reserves at December 31, 2014 is included as Exhibits 99.8 through 99.10 to this report. In accordance with SEC guidelines, we and ARP make the standardized measure estimates of future net cash flows from proved reserves using natural gas, oil and NGL sales prices in effect as of the dates of the estimates which are held constant throughout the life of the properties. Our and ARP’s estimates of proved reserves are calculated on the basis of the unweighted adjusted average of the first-day-of-the-month price for each month during the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013, and are listed below as of the dates indicated:
(1)
“Mcf” represents thousand cubic feet; and “Bbl” represents barrels.
(2)
Excludes the impact of subordination of ARP’s production revenue to investor partners within its Drilling Partnerships for years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013. Including the effect of this subordination, the average realized gas sales price was $3.84 per Mcf before the effects of financial hedging and $2.99 per Mcf before the effects of financial hedging for years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively.
Reserve estimates are imprecise and may change as additional information becomes available. Furthermore, estimates of natural gas, oil and NGL reserves are projections based on engineering data. There are uncertainties inherent in the interpretation of this data as well as the projection of future rates of production and the timing of development expenditures. Reservoir engineering is a subjective process of estimating underground accumulations of natural gas, oil and NGLs that cannot be measured in an exact way and the accuracy of any reserve estimate is a function of the quality of available data and of engineering and geological interpretation and judgment.
The preparation of our and ARP’s natural gas, oil and NGL reserve estimates were completed in accordance with prescribed internal control procedures by reserve engineers. Other than for ARP’s Rangely assets, for the periods presented, Wright and Company, Inc., was retained to prepare a report of proved reserves. The reserve information includes natural gas and oil reserves which are all located in the United States. The independent reserves engineer’s evaluation was based on more than 38 years of experience in the estimation of and evaluation of petroleum reserves, specified economic parameters, operating conditions, and government regulations. For ARP’s Rangely assets, Cawley, Gillespie, and Associates, Inc. was retained to prepare a report of proved reserves. The independent reserves engineer’s evaluation was based on more than 32 years of experience in the estimation of and evaluation of petroleum reserves, specified economic parameters, operating conditions, and government regulations. Our and ARP’s internal control procedures include verification of input data delivered to its third-party reserve specialist, as well as a multi-functional management review. The preparation of reserve estimates was overseen by our and ARP’s Senior Reserve Engineer, who is a member of the Society of Petroleum Engineers and has more than 16 years of natural gas and oil industry experience. The reserve estimates were reviewed and approved by our and ARP’s senior engineering staff and management, with final approval by the Chief Operating Officer and President.
Results of drilling, testing and production subsequent to the date of the estimate may justify revision of these estimates. Future prices received from the sale of natural gas, oil and NGLs may be different from those estimated by our independent
third-party engineers in preparing its reports. The amounts and timing of future operating and development costs may also differ from those used. Accordingly, the reserves set forth in the following tables ultimately may not be produced and the proved undeveloped reserves may not be developed within the periods anticipated. Our and ARP’s estimated standardized measure values may not be representative of the current or future fair market value of proved natural gas and oil properties. Standardized measure values are based upon projected cash inflows, which do not provide for changes in natural gas, oil and NGL prices or for the escalation of expenses and capital costs. The meaningfulness of these estimates depends upon the accuracy of the assumptions upon which they were based.
We and ARP evaluate natural gas and oil reserves at constant temperature and pressure. A change in either of these factors can affect the measurement of natural gas and oil reserves. We and ARP deduct operating costs, development costs and production-related and ad valorem taxes in arriving at the estimated future cash flows. We and ARP base the estimates on operating methods and conditions prevailing as of the dates indicated:
(1)
“MMcf” represents million cubic feet; “MMcfe” represents million cubic feet equivalents; and “MBbl” represents thousand barrels. Oil and NGLs are converted to gas equivalent basis (“Mcfe”) at the rate of one barrel to 6 Mcf of natural gas. Mcf is defined as one thousand cubic feet.
(2)
At December 31, 2014, there were no proved undeveloped reserves related to our oil and gas properties.
(3)
ARP’s ownership in these reserves is subject to reduction as it generally makes capital contributions, which includes leasehold acreage associated with ARP’s proved undeveloped reserves, to its Drilling Partnerships in exchange for an equity interest in these partnerships, which is approximately 30%, which effectively will reduce ARP’s ownership interest in these reserves from 100% to its respective ownership interest as ARP makes these contributions.
(4)
Standardized measure is the present value of estimated future net revenues to be generated from the production of proved reserves, determined in accordance with the rules and regulations of the SEC without giving effect to non-property related expenses, such as general and administrative expenses, interest and income tax expenses, or to depletion, depreciation and amortization. The future cash flows are discounted using an annual discount rate of 10%. Standardized measure does not give effect to commodity derivative contracts. Because we and ARP are limited partnerships, no provision for federal or state income taxes has been included in the December 31, 2014 and 2013 calculations of standardized measure, which is, therefore, the same as the PV-10 value. Standardized measure for the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013 includes approximately ($36.7) million and $2.0 million related to the present value of future cash flows from plugging and abandonment of wells, including the estimated salvage value. These amounts were not included in the summary reserve reports that appear in Exhibits 99.8 through 99.10 in this report.
Proved developed reserves are those reserves of any category that can be expected to be recovered through existing wells with existing equipment and operating methods or in which the cost of the required equipment is relatively minor compared to the cost of a new well; and through installed extraction equipment and infrastructure operational at the time of the reserve estimate if the extraction is by means not involving a well. Proved undeveloped reserves are reserves of any category that are expected to be recovered from new wells on undrilled acreage, or from existing wells on which a relatively major expenditure is required for recompletion.
Proved Undeveloped Reserves (“PUDS”)
PUD Locations. As of December 31, 2014, there were no PUD locations related to our natural gas and oil reserves and ARP had 426 PUD locations totaling approximately 331.9 Bcfe’s of natural gas, oil and NGLs. These PUDS are based on the definition of PUD’s in accordance with the SEC’s rules allowing the use of techniques that have been proven effective
through documented evidence, such as actual production from projects in the same reservoir or an analogous reservoir or by other evidence using reliable technology that establishes reasonable certainty.
Historically, the primary focus of ARP’s drilling operations has been in the Appalachian Basin. Subsequent to our acquisitions in the Arkoma Basin and ARP’s acquisitions in the Barnett Shale and Marble Falls play, the Mississippi Lime play, the Raton Basin, the Black Warrior Basin and the County Line area of Wyoming during the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, we and ARP will continue to integrate those areas and increase our and ARP’s proved reserves through organic leasing as well as drilling on our and ARP’s existing undeveloped acreage.
Our and ARP’s organic growth will focus on expanding acreage positions in our and ARP’s target areas, including our operations in the Arkoma Basin and ARP’s operations in the Marcellus Shale, Utica Shale, Barnett Shale, Marble Falls play, the Mississippi Lime play, the Raton Basin, the Black Warrior Basin and the County Line area of Wyoming. Through our and ARP’s previous drilling in these regions, as well as geologic analyses of these areas, we and ARP are expecting these expansion locations to have a significant impact on our and ARP’s proved reserves.
Changes in PUDs. Changes in PUDS that occurred during the year ended December 31, 2014 were due to ARP’s:
·
addition of approximately 50.5 Bcfe due to ARP’s drilling activity in the Marcellus Shale, Utica Shale, Mississippi Lime and Marble Falls play;
·
addition of approximately 29.2 Bcfe due to ARP’s acquisition of acreage in the Raton and Black Warrior Basins;
·
addition of approximately 31.8 Bcfe due to ARP’s acquisition of acreage in the Eagle Ford Shale; partially offset by
·
negative revisions of approximately 147.2 Bcfe in PUDs primarily due to the reduction of ARP’s five year drilling plans in the Barnett Shale and pricing scenario revisions.
Development Costs. Costs incurred related to the development of our and our subsidiary’s PUDs were approximately $177.7 million, $103.3 million, and $79.4 million for the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013, and 2012, respectively. During the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013, and 2012, approximately 41.2 Bcfe, 58.4 Bcfe, and 30.6 Bcfe of our and our subsidiary’s reserves, respectively, were converted from PUDs to proved developed reserves. Of the 30.6 Bcfe of reserves converted from PUDs to proved developed reserves during the year ended December 31, 2012, 29.8 Bcfe is related to PUDs acquired and developed during the year. See “Item 1. Business - Overview” for further information. As of December 31, 2014, there were no PUDs that had remained undeveloped for five years or more.
Productive Wells
The following table sets forth information regarding productive natural gas and oil wells in which we and ARP have a working interest as of December 31, 2014. Productive wells consist of producing wells and wells capable of production, including natural gas wells awaiting pipeline connections to commence deliveries and oil wells awaiting connection to production facilities. Gross wells are the total number of producing wells in which we and ARP have an interest, directly or through ARP’s ownership interests in Drilling Partnerships, and net wells are the sum of our and ARP’s fractional working interests in gross wells, based on the percentage interest ARP owns in the Drilling Partnership that owns the well:
(1)
There were no exploratory or dry wells drilled by us during the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012. There were no exploratory wells drilled by ARP during the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012; there were no gross or net dry wells within ARP’s operating areas during the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013. During the year ended December 31, 2012, there were 8 gross (3 net) ARP dry wells drilled in the Niobrara shale.
(2)
Includes ARP’s proportionate interest in wells owned by 67 Drilling Partnerships for which it serves as managing general partner and various joint ventures. This does not include royalty or overriding interests in 646 ARP wells and 14 of our wells.
(3)
Our coal-bed methane includes our production in the Arkoma Basin in eastern Oklahoma. Coal-bed methane for ARP includes its production located in the Raton Basin in northern New Mexico, the Black Warrior Basin in central Alabama, the County Line area of Wyoming, and the Central Appalachian Basin in Virginia and West Virginia.
(4)
Other operating areas include ARP’s production located in the Chattanooga, New Albany and Niobrara Shales.
Developed and Undeveloped Acreage
The following tables set forth information about our and ARP’s developed and undeveloped natural gas and oil acreage as of December 31, 2014. The information in ARP’s table includes ARP’s proportionate interest in acreage owned by Drilling Partnerships.
(1)
Developed acres are acres spaced or assigned to productive wells.
(2)
Undeveloped acres are acres on which wells have not been drilled or completed to a point that would permit the production of commercial quantities of natural gas or oil, regardless of whether such acreage contains proved reserves.
(3)
A gross acre is an acre in which we or ARP own a working interest. The number of gross acres is the total number of acres in which we or ARP own a working interest.
(4)
Net acres is the sum of the fractional working interests owned in gross acres. For example, a 50% working interest in an acre is one gross acre but is 0.5 net acres.
(5)
Includes ARP’s Utica Shale natural gas and oil rights on approximately 10,608 net acres under new leases taken in Ohio that remain undeveloped.
The leases for our and ARP’s developed acreage generally have terms that extend for the life of the wells, while the leases on our and ARP’s undeveloped acreage have terms that vary from less than one year to five years. There are no concessions for undeveloped acreage as of December 31, 2014. As of December 31, 2014, none of the leases covering our approximately 29,492 net undeveloped acres, or 0.0%, are scheduled to expire on or before December 31, 2015. Leases covering approximately 40,103 of ARP’s 794,030 net undeveloped acres, or 5.1%, are scheduled to expire on or before December 31, 2015. An additional 0.7% and 1.6% are scheduled to expire in each of the years 2016 and 2017, respectively.
We believe that we and ARP hold good and indefeasible title related to producing properties, in accordance with standards generally accepted in the industry, subject to exceptions stated in the opinions of counsel employed by us and ARP in the various areas in which we and ARP conduct activities. We do not believe that these exceptions detract substantially from our and ARP’s use of any property. As is customary in the industry, we and ARP conduct only a perfunctory title examination at the time we or it acquire a property. Before commencing drilling operations, we and ARP conduct an extensive title examination and perform curative work on defects that we and ARP deem significant. We and ARP have obtained title examinations for substantially all of our and ARP’s managed producing properties. No single property represents a material portion of our or ARP’s holdings.
Our and ARP’s properties are subject to royalty, overriding royalty and other outstanding interests customary in the industry. These properties are also subject to burdens such as liens incident to operating agreements, taxes, development obligations under natural gas and oil leases, farm-out arrangements and other encumbrances, easements and restrictions. We do not believe that any of these burdens will materially interfere with our or ARP’s use of our or its properties.
Atlas Pipeline Partners
APL’s principal facilities consist of 17 natural gas processing plants; 18 gas treating facilities; approximately 12,300 miles of active 2 inch to 30 inch diameter natural gas gathering lines. Substantially all of APL’s gathering systems are constructed within rights-of-way granted by property owners named in the appropriate land records. In a few cases, property for gathering system purposes was purchased in fee. All of APL’s compressor stations are located on property owned in fee or on property obtained via long-term leases or surface easements.
The following tables set forth certain information relating to APL’s gas processing facilities and natural gas gathering systems:
Gas Processing Facilities
Facility
Location
Year Constructed
Design Throughput Capacity (MMCFD)
2014 Average Utilization Rate
Atoka plant (idle)
Atoka County, OK
Coalgate plant
Coal County, OK
Stonewall plant
Coal County, OK
Tupelo plant
Coal County, OK
Velma plant
Stephens County, OK
Updated 2003
Velma V-60 plant
Stephens County, OK
Total SouthOK
76%(1)
Waynoka I plant
Woods County, OK
Waynoka II plant
Woods County, OK
Chaney Dell plant
Major County, OK
Chester plant
Woodward County, OK
Total WestOK
100%(1)
Total Oklahoma
95%(1)
Consolidator plant
Reagan County, TX
Driver plant
Midland County, TX
Midkiff plant
Reagan County, TX
Benedum plant (idle)
Upton County, TX
Updated 1981
Edward plant
Upton County, TX
Total WestTX
70%
Silver Oak I
Bee County, TX
Silver Oak II
Bee County, TX
Total SouthTX
30%
Total Texas
1,055
55%
Total
2,053
75%(1)
(1)
Certain processing facilities in these business units are capable of processing more than their name-plate capacity and when capacity is exceeded, APL will off-load volumes to other processors, as needed. The calculation of the total average utilization rate for the year includes these off-loaded volumes.
Of the 18 gas treating facilities APL owns, 17 are held for use to provide contract treating services to natural gas producers located in Arkansas, Louisiana, Oklahoma and Texas. Two of APL’s contract gas treating facilities are refrigeration facilities and the other 15 are amine facilities. The remaining treating facility is a 250 GPM amine treating plant, which is used in APL’s processing operations in the SouthOK system and is included in APL’s Oklahoma segment. APL’s 17 contract gas treating facilities are included in its Corporate and Other segment.
Natural Gas Gathering Systems
System
Location
Approximate Active Miles of Pipe
SouthOK
Southern Oklahoma and Northern Texas
1,500
WestOK
North Central Oklahoma and Southern Kansas
6,100
Total Oklahoma
7,600
SouthTX
Southern Central Texas
WestTX
West Texas
3,800
Barnett Shale
Central Texas
Total Texas
4,620
Tennessee
Tennessee
Total
12,290
APL’s property or rights-of-way are subject to encumbrances, restrictions and other imperfections. These imperfections have not materially interfered, and APL does not expect they will materially interfere, with the conduct of its business. In many instances, lands over which rights-of-way have been obtained are subject to prior liens, which have not been subordinated to the rights-of-way grants. In a few instances, APL’s rights-of-way are revocable at the election of the land owners. In some cases, not all of the owners named in the appropriate land records have joined in the rights-of-way grants, but in substantially all such cases signatures of the owners of majority interests have been obtained. Substantially all permits have been obtained from public authorities to cross over or under, or to lay facilities in or along, water courses, county roads, municipal streets, and state highways, where necessary, although in some instances these permits are revocable at the election of the grantor. Substantially all permits have also been obtained from railroad companies to cross over or under lands or rights-of-way, many of which are also revocable at the grantor’s election.
Certain of APL’s rights to lay and maintain pipelines are derived from recorded gas well leases, with respect to wells currently in production; however, the leases are subject to termination if the wells cease to produce. Because many of these leases affect wells at the end of lines, these rights-of-way will not be used for any other purpose once the related wells cease to produce.
ITEM 3: