Item 2. PROPERTIES
Office Locations
The Company leases its 4,092 square foot primary office facilities in Scottsdale, Arizona under a non-cancellable operating lease agreement, dated September 30, 2010, for a 66-month term. The lease provides for no lease payments during the first six months and a reduced square footage charge for the first year. The initial rental is $23.00 per square foot, beginning February 1, 2011, and increasing $.50 per square foot annually thereafter.
Leasehold Holdings
As of March 15, 2012 we held working interests in approximately 112,400 net acres in the Permian Basin, Bakken and Eagle Ford, the Niobrara, the Eagle Bine regions and Gulf Coast regions. These working interests grant us the right, as the lessee of the property, to explore for, develop and produce oil, natural gas and other minerals, while also bearing any related exploration, development, and operating costs. As of March 15, 2012:
·Permian Basin. We have leased a portfolio of both producing and undeveloped properties in the Permian Basin of West Texas, consisting of approximately 29,000 net acres, one of which includes 221 gross (178.2 net) producing wells as well as approximately 10,200 undeveloped acres on with leases expiring in 1-4 years. We have a contractual relationship with XOG Operating and Cambrian Management, referred to herein as Cambrian, both seasoned exploration and production operators based in Midland, Texas. XOG has been operating, developing and exploiting the Permian Basin, as well as operating in 14 other states, for 30 years. Cambrian has acted as a third party completion consulting firm and contract operator for certain types of vertical wells in the Permian Basin since 2001.
The XOG relationship has provided acquisition opportunities for us beginning in 2010 and is expected to provide us with additional opportunities for land acquisition and joint ventures with various operators; however, XOG is not obligated to provide any opportunities to us and there can be no assurance that any opportunity will be available to us in the future. Randall Capps is the sole owner of XOG, a member of our board of directors and the father-in-law of our Chief Executive Officer, Scott Feldhacker. Mr. Capps is the largest beneficial holder of our common stock through his direct and indirect ownership of our common stock.
·Bakken Shale. We hold primarily minority working interests in the Bakken Shale covering approximately 42,200 net acres located in nine counties in North Dakota. We have participated in 140 gross (2.1 net) wells in the Williston Basin, prospecting either the Bakken Shale or Three Forks Shale formations through March 15, 2012. The Company has elected to participate in a wide range of wells by county and operator in the Williston Basin. Our objective is to participate in some of the overall potential growth in production and proved reserves of the Williston Basin as the majority working interest operators in which we hold minority working interests, conduct exploratory and in-fill drilling activities. We have historically participated, and anticipate continuing to participate, in these drilling activities through minority working interest participations.
·Eagle Ford Shale. We currently hold both majority working interests and minority working interests in the Eagle Ford Shale formation covering approximately 7,400 net acres and 28 gross (7.1 net) wells. Of the total wells in the Eagle Ford, we hold working interests in 1,200 net acres in a project where we have participated in 23 gross (2.3 net) wells in La Salle and Frio counties on a non-operated basis. These wells were drilled by Cheyenne Petroleum, referred to herein as Cheyenne, a privately-held operator based in Oklahoma City, OK. This acreage is subject to an area of mutual interest agreement, referred to herein as the AMI, between Cheyenne and several minority working interest partners, including our company. Cheyenne has informed us that it intends to have an aggregate of 35 wells in operation by the end of 2012, including the 23 wells that are currently in some stage of drilling, completion or production as of March 15, 2012, to hold all of the acreage in the AMI by production. Cheyenne installed high-pressure gas takeaway facilities and sour gas treatment facilities in the area subject to the AMI in late 2011 and early 2012. This enabled Cheyenne to resume production of the wells temporarily shut in during 2011 to enable production beginning in early 2012.
We also currently hold majority working interests in a combined 6,200 net acres located in Wilson, Gonzales and Maverick counties within the Eagle Ford. This acreage is partially developed, with 5 gross (4.25 net) producing wells. We will continue to participate in an evaluation of the most efficient manner to develop these assets for future potential oil and gas production.
·Niobrara. We currently hold majority working interests in approximately 25,700 net acres located in the Niobrara Shale in Nebraska and Wyoming. All of this acreage is undeveloped and unproven as of March 15, 2012. We do not currently anticipate the near-term development of this acreage. There are three years remaining on our lease, with an option to extend the lease for five additional years. In the event we drill one or more wells and commence commercial production, we would continue to hold the lease for the duration of production. We will continue to participate in the evaluation of the drilling and exploration activities in close proximity to our acreage for future potential development.
·Eagle Bine. We currently hold majority working interests in approximately 3,000 net acres located in the Eagle Bine are in Anderson County, Texas. All of this acreage is undeveloped and unproven as of March 15, 2012. We do not currently anticipate the near-term development of this acreage. We hold three years remaining on the lease, with an option to extend the lease for one additional year. In the event we drill one or more wells and commence commercial production, we would continue to hold the lease for the duration of production. We will continue to participate in the evaluation of the drilling and exploration activities in close proximity to our acreage for future potential development.
·Additional Acreage: We also hold additional acreage in Oklahoma, Arkansas, and on the Gulf Coast of Texas with a total of approximately 5,000 net acres. The acreage includes 16 gross (2.9 net) gas wells in Arkansas, 1 gross (.06 net) producing well in Oklahoma and 28 gross (26.1 net) producing wells on the Gulf Coast of Texas. The Gulf Coast assets are majority working interest leases. We participate in the Arkansas and Oklahoma wells on a non-operated, minority working interest basis.
Reserves
Below is a summary of oil and gas reserves as of the fiscal-year ended December 31, 2011 based on average fiscal-year prices.
As of December 31, 2011, our proved oil and natural gas reserves are all located in the United States, primarily in the Permian Basin of West Texas, the Eagle Ford shale formation of South Texas and the Williston Basin of North Dakota. The reservoir engineering reports used herein are calculated as of December 31, 2011. The estimates of proved reserves at December 31, 2011 are based on reports prepared by DeGolyer and MacNaughton, (the “D&M Engineering Report”) and an additional report for our Eagle Ford assets operated by Cheyenne Petroleum prepared by Cawley Gillespie & Associates (the “CG&A Engineering Report”) which are included herein as Exhibit 99.5.
Proved reserves and future net revenue to the evaluated interests were based on economic parameters and operating conditions considered applicable as of December 31, 2011 and are pursuant to the financial reporting standards of the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) and prepared in accordance with the SPE 2007 Standards promulgated by the Society of Petroleum Engineers. The reserves projections in this evaluation are based on the use of the available data and accepted industry-engineering methods.
The following table provides a roll-forward of the total proved reserves for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, as well as disclosures of proved developed and proved undeveloped reserves at December 31, 2011 and 2010. Barrels of oil equivalent (BOE) are determined using a ratio of 6 Mcf of natural gas to 1 Bbl of crude oil.
Total proved reserves as of December 31, 2010 were 4,709,436 BOE including 2,387,979 BOE in proved undeveloped reserves. Our 2010 reserves include reserves acquired in the Group 1&2 acquisition in February 2011. This transaction was between our Company and XOG Group while we were under common control. As a result, our proved reserves were recast to include the reserves acquired as if our Company has owned those reserves at December 31, 2010. Subsequently, we evaluated our proved undeveloped reserves and determined that 1,868,367 BOE in undeveloped reserves were unlikely to be developed in the next three years by the operators of record on which these reserves were located. As a result, the Company has excluded these locations and the associated reserves from proved reserves as of December 31, 2011. If these reserves were excluded from all periods presented, total proved reserves as of December 31, 2011 and 2010 would be 3,425,111 BOE and 2,841,069 BOE, respectively.
Qualifications of Technical Persons and Internal Controls Over Reserves Estimation Process
Our policies regarding internal controls over the recording of reserves estimates requires reserves to comply with the SEC definitions and guidance and be prepared in accordance the SPE 2007 Standards promulgated by the Society of Petroleum Engineers. Our procedures require that our reserve report be prepared by a third-party registered independent engineering firm at the end of every year based on information we provide to such engineer. We accumulate historical production data for our wells, calculate historical lease operating expenses and differentials, update working interests and net revenue interests, obtain updated authorizations for expenditure (“AFEs”) and obtain geological and geophysical information from operators. This data is forwarded to our third-party engineering firm for review and calculation. Our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer provide a final review of our reserve report and the assumptions relied upon in such report.
Bryant M. Mook, B.Sc. M.Eng., Petroleum Engineer and Geological Advisor, was our third party reserve engineer for the preparation of our reserve report, effective December 31, 2010. Mr. Mook has been a petroleum engineering and geological advisor for more than 35 years with multi-disciplinary experience in the oil and gas industry. He meets or exceeds the education, training, and experience requirements set forth in the Standards Pertaining to the Estimating and Auditing of Oil and Gas Reserves Information promulgated by the Society of Petroleum Engineers and is proficient in judiciously applying industry standard practices to engineering and geoscience evaluations as well as applying SEC and other industry reserves definitions and guidelines.
Our Chief Financial Officer, Scott Mahoney, was responsible for overseeing the preparation of the reserve estimates. Mr. Mahoney has significant accounting and financial experience, although not specific to the oil and gas industry. Accordingly, in July 2011, we hired DeGolyer and MacNaughton of Houston, Texas as our new third-party engineering firm to prepare our reserve estimates going forward. Cawley, Gillespie and Associates of Houston, Texas was also retained on a specific project to provide third-party engineering for our Eagle Ford assets being developed with Cheyenne Petroleum in La Salle and Frio Counties, Texas.
DeGolyer and MacNaughton of Houston, TX, was our third party reserve engineer for the preparation of the majority of our reserve report, effective December 31, 2011. DeGolyer and MacNaughton was established in 1936 and is one of the oldest and largest third party reserve engineering firms in the US today. This firm meets or exceeds the education, training, and experience requirements set forth in the Standards Pertaining to the Estimating and Auditing of Oil and Gas Reserves Information promulgated by the Society of Petroleum Engineers and is proficient in judiciously applying industry standard practices to engineering and geoscience evaluations as well as applying SEC and other industry reserves definitions and guidelines.
Cawley, Gillespie and Associates, of Fort Worth, Texas, was our third party reserve engineer for the preparation of the Auld Shipman project in the Eagle Ford within our reserve report, effective December 31, 2011. Cawley, Gillespie and Associates was established in 1960 and is one of the largest third party reserve engineering firms in the US today. This firm meets or exceeds the education, training, and experience requirements set forth in the Standards Pertaining to the Estimating and Auditing of Oil and Gas Reserves Information promulgated by the Society of Petroleum Engineers and is proficient in judiciously applying industry standard practices to engineering and geoscience evaluations as well as applying SEC and other industry reserves definitions and guidelines.
Proved Undeveloped Reserves
As of December 31, 2011, there were 805,669 barrels of oil and 1,171,884 mcf of natural gas in our proved undeveloped reserves. In 2011, the Company evaluated the probability that the operators would drill the undeveloped acreage included in our December 31, 2010 year end reserve reports. The Company found that the operators of this acreage had not committed to drilling the drillable locations within five years, and therefore we excluded these reserves from our December 31, 2011 reserve report. This resulted in proved undeveloped reserves as of December 31, 2010 in the amount of 1.25 million barrels of oil and 3,710.2 mcf of natural gas to be excluded from proved reserves as of December 31, 2011.
During 2011, we focused primarily on the acquisition of leasehold properties from the XOG Group, the participation in non-operated exploratory drilling activities in the Bakken and the Eagle Ford, and the initiation of a self-directed drilling program in the Permian Basin. As of December 31, 2011, much of our drilling investments in the Bakken, Eagle Ford and Permian Basin remained unproved. Furthermore, as much of our drilling in 2011 was exploratory, we were not able to provide sufficient production data at year end to generate significant proven undeveloped reserves in the areas where we drilled or participated in exploratory wells. We believe these exploratory drilling activities may yield additional proven reserves in 2012. In addition, in 2011 we evaluated many of our non-operated proven undeveloped reserves and eliminated them from our reserve reporting due solely to the fact that the operators of this non-operated acreage did not have a clear timetable to drill the undeveloped locations. As a result, we removed these proven undeveloped reserves from our 2011 year-end reserve reports.
Oil and Gas Production, Production Prices and Production Costs
Oil and Gas Production
The following table summarizes the production of oil and natural gas by geographical area for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011:
The following table summarizes gross and net productive oil wells by state as of December 31, 2011. A net well represents our percentage ownership of a gross well. The following table includes wells which were awaiting completion, in the process of completion or awaiting flowback subsequent to fracture stimulation.
Production Prices
The following table summarizes the average sales price per unit of oil and natural gas by geographical area for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011:
(a) We used the 12 month first day of the month unweighted average prices realized as a basis for all oil calculations and Henry Hub for gas.
The following table summarizes the weighted average prices utilized in the reserve estimates for 2011 and 2010 as adjusted for location, grade and quality:
(a) The pricing used to estimate our 2011 and 2010 reserves was based on a 12-month unweighted average realized price as adjusted for location, grade and quality.
Oil and natural gas reserve quantity estimates are subject to numerous uncertainties inherent in the estimation of quantities of proved reserves and in the projection of future rates of production and the timing of development expenditures. The accuracy of such estimates is a function of the quality of available data and of engineering and geological interpretation and judgment.
Costs Incurred for Oil and Natural Gas Producing Activities
Average production costs per BOE including ad valorem and severance taxes were $15.77 in 2011. Excluding severance taxes, production costs per BOE were $11.08. Average production costs per BOE including ad valorem and severance taxes were $14.75 in 2010. Excluding severance taxes, production costs per BOE were $12.26.
Dry Holes
Through March 15, 2012, we have experienced no dry holes as of result of our non-operated drilling activities.
Drilling Activity and other Exploratory and Development Activities
Productive and Exploratory Wells Drilled
In the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011, operators drilled and completed 8 gross (8.0 net) exploratory wells on our leaseholds located in the Permian Basin, including 2 gross (2.0 net) wells in Andrews County and 2 gross (2.0 net) wells in Reagan County. We participated in 18 gross (1.8 net) exploratory wells in the Eagle Ford shale formation in South Texas, including 16 gross (1.6 net) wells in La Salle County, and 2 gross (0.2 net) wells in Frio County. Lastly, we participated in 96 gross (1.65 net) exploratory wells in Mountrail, McKenzie, Williams, Dunn, Burke, and Divide Counties in North Dakota.
In the fiscal year ended December 31, 2010, operators drilled and completed 0 gross (0.0 net) exploratory wells on our leaseholds located in the Permian Basin. We participated in 2 gross (0.2 net) exploratory wells in the Eagle Ford shale formation in La Salle County, Texas. Lastly, we participated in 23 gross (0.27 net) exploratory wells in the Bakken in Mountrail, McKenzie, Williams and Dunn Counties in North Dakota.
Productive and Dry Development Wells Drilled
In the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011, we participated on a non-operated basis in 2 gross (0.1 net) development wells on minority working interest acreage in Glasscock County, Texas with Trilogy Operating Company. We participated in 0 gross (0.0 net) development wells in the Eagle Ford shale formation in South Texas. Lastly, we participated in 0 gross (0.0 net) development wells in the Williston Basin in North Dakota. All of our drilling the Eagle Ford and Bakken in 2010 and 2011 has been exploratory. We have only just begun to receive notification of development well in-fill drilling on some of our minority working interest acreage in the Bakken in early 2012.
In the fiscal year ended December 31, 2010, operators drilled and completed 2 gross (2.0 net) development wells on our leaseholds located in in the Permian Basin. We contracted with XOG to oversee the drilling, completion and initial production for these wells drilled in Upton County, Texas. We participated in no development wells in either the Eagle Ford or Bakken in 2010.
Present Activities
As of March 15, 2012, our third party operators are in the process of completing 8 gross (8.0 net) exploratory wells on our majority working interest acreage in Andrews, Reagan, Crockett and Schleicher Counties in the Permian Basin. We also participated in the drilling and completing of 2 gross (0.2 net) exploratory wells in La Salle Counties in the Eagle Ford. Lastly, we participated in 6 gross (0.1 net) exploratory wells and 6 gross (0.1 net) development wells in the Bakken.
Oil and Gas Properties, Wells, Operations and Acreage
The following table summarizes as of December 31, 2011, the total gross and net productive wells, expressed separately for oil and gas and the total gross and net developed acreage ( i.e. , acreage assignable to productive wells) by geographic area.
The following table summarizes as of March 15, 2012, the total gross and net productive wells, expressed separately for oil and gas and the total gross and net developed acreage ( i.e. , acreage assignable to productive wells) by geographic area.
The following table summarizes as of December 31, 2011, the amount of undeveloped leasehold acreage expressed in both gross and net acres by geographic area and the minimum remaining terms of leases and concessions.
In the Permian Basin, we have approximately 1,000 net acres in Crockett and Schleicher County that have lease expiration dates in April 2012. We are currently evaluating our options to selectively drill some of these leases to hold this acreage by production.
In the Eagle Ford, our area of mutual interest (“AMI”) requires 35 gross wells to be producing by the second quarter of 2013. We expect Cheyenne to drill 15 incremental wells in 2012 to hold all of the acreage within the AMI by the end of 2012.
In the Bakken, our non-operated minority interest acreage is primarily not held by production today, with 28,570 of our 32,400 acres undeveloped or subject to drilling in progress. Our acreage exposure is very granular, with over 700 leases with a typical working interest ranging from 1-10%. We hold approximately 1,000 and 3,800 net acres that expire in 2012 and 2013, respectively. The majority of our Bakken acreage has maturity dates in 2012-2014, with the majority of the leases having 1-2 year extension options.
The following table summarizes as of March 15, 2012, the amount of undeveloped leasehold acreage expressed in both gross and net acres by geographic area and the minimum remaining terms of leases and concessions.
In the Permian, we have acquired approximately 9,190 net acres in Crockett and Edwards Counties that were not held by production at March 15, 2012. The leasehold acreage in both counties has three year lease maturities, with an option to extend the leases by one year. We own the majority working interests in the acreage in both counties, and we have the ability to direct and contract for the drilling and potential production of these assets to hold by production in the future.
In the Eagle Ford, we have acquired approximately 3,620 net acres in Maverick County that were not held by production at March 15, 2012. This leasehold acreage in Maverick has a five year lease maturity. We own the majority working interests in this acreage, and contract for the drilling and potential production of these assets to hold by production in the future.
In the Bakken, we have acquired an additional 9,800 net acres in Billings, Burke, Divide, Dunn, Hettinger, McKenzie, Mountrail, Stark and Williams Counties, North Dakota, and Sheridan, Montana. The expiration of these leases ranges from 2014 to 2016, and in some instances, the acreage has additional options to extend the lease maturity. We do not own the majority working interest in this acreage, nor do we have any ability to influence the potential development of this acreage within the terms of the lease.
Employees
We currently have a full-time staff of three officers and two additional employees who manage all day to day operations of the Company.
Item 3.