ITEM 2. Properties.
Columbia
We continue to monitor developments in the political and economic situation, in particular the mining industry. We have acquired through our Kata acquisition and our own efforts, a database of information related to the Narino province (departmento) to guide us on due diligence on any projects we may seek to acquire in the country, though we do not plan to enter into any definitive agreement in 2013, or the first half of 2014 unless a clear mining law and regulations are in place in the country, that we would have sufficient working capital, and that any project presented to us met our acquisition criteria and an acceptable price. The below description provides our recent history in the area, and information developed during our exploration activities which constitute a database of information that we believe is of value to not only future activities of the Company in the area, or can be used for entering into any joint-ventures in the area.
- 20 -
Overview: Santa Cruz Gold Project and Narino Province
In 2010, the Company decided to extend its geographic focus to include Colombia, and in 2011 spent considerable time in business development and exploration activities in the Narino province of Colombia, including an agreement concerning the Santa Cruz Gold project. In November 2011 due to uncertainties in regard to the Colombian mining laws we acquired 100% of Kata Enterprises, Inc., as described below, and terminated its agreements related to the Santa Cruz Gold project. We have built a database of information on the historic mining district of Narino, and remain interested in our prior target areas of exploration. The below description of our activities in Narino and the information acquired is outlined, however the reader is cautioned we at present have no mineral property interest in Colombia.
Description of Property Underlying the IKE-10421X Concession Application
In connection with our consideration of entering into the Agreement described earlier, which resulted in our acquisition of the 25% Stake in Kata with an option to acquire the remaining 75% of the outstanding capital stock of Kata, we conducted a legal, financial and business review of the financial condition, assets, liabilities and business of Kata and its subsidiary entities. The description that follows is the product of our due diligence of the property underlying the Mining Concessions that was the subject of the IKE-10421X concession application.
We caution that we do not presently have any interest, directly or indirectly, in the property underlying the IKE-10421X concession application described herein, which we also refer to as the “Santacruz Gold Project”. Our field work in the Santacruz Gold project area was undertaken in order to gather data for the purpose of placing us in a better position to develop and execute a plan for exploration and development of the Santacruz Gold Project, should we be successful in acquiring an indirect interest in a mining concession contract underlying the Santacruz gold project. We acquired a 100% equity interest in Kata, which, through its subsidiary owns an 85% equity interest in Minera Narino, has a contractual right, subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions, to acquire a mining concession contract covering the Santacruz Gold Project.
The information contained herein is presented to describe activities conducted during the fiscal year ending June 30, 2013 and the type of information gathered for our database of information acquired in the acquisition of Kata or developed internally.
Location and Access
The Mining Concessions consist of one concession application IKE-10421X that covered an area of approximately 1,836 hectares. It is located in the south central part of the Nariño Department in southwestern Colombia. It is located in the municipality of Santa Cruz de Guachavez within the western drainage of the Western Cordillera (Cordillera Occidental).
In the event that all conditions had been satisfied enabling Kata, through its subsidiary, to successfully close the Kata Transaction and acquire the Mining Concessions, it would have acquired an 85% interest in the executed concession contract that is the subject of concession application IKE-10421X. Our ownership interest in the concession contract would have occurred, if at all, indirectly through our ownership of an equity interest in Kata.
Set forth below is a map showing the general location of the area that is the subject of concession application IKE-10421X.
- 21 -
Set forth below is a map showing more specifically the location of the area that is the subject of concession application IKE-10421X. The IKE-10421X concession application covered an area that surrounds the concession FHRG-01, which is exclusive of and not part of the area covered by concession application IKE-10421X. Maps were prepared based on data derived from maps from prior exploration conducted by the Japan International Cooperation Agency (“JICA”) from 1981 to 1983 as well as our initial field observations.
Previous Exploration History
The larger district area where the concession application IKE-10421X is located was part of geological evaluation done by the JICA from 1981 to 1983. JICA did most of the geologic mapping with some adjustments that are currently shown in the Geologic map of Colombia.
The main objective of the work by the Japanese group, JICA, was to develop targets for mineral exploration that would potentially lead to the discovery of mineral deposits. As part of the program, extensive geochemical exploration was conducted in the area. The sampling involved soil and rock sampling. The reported results indicated zinc and arsenic anomalies in various locations in the area under study, with arsenic and zinc anomalies being considered indicators above buried veins. The area has extensive soil cover. Soil samples were collected from an average depth of 160 cm and ranged from 70 to 320 cm.
The only mine with recorded history of production in the district where IKE-10421X is located is El Diamante Mine. Detailed work by JICA to evaluate the vein mineralization in the district was done at El Diamante Mine which at the time was producing gold from ore at the surface and at one level. The Japanese mission mapped the area to locate the veins and drilled 15 diamond drill holes at that mine and adjacent areas. Our CEO, VP of Operations and VP Geology visited the El Diamante in 2011 conducting underground site inspections.
We have not independently verified the results shown by the JICA study and such information is included for the limited purpose of understanding of the district area. We caution that such information is not indicative in any way of results that may be obtained from the area covered by concession application IKE-10421X.
- 22 -
Regional Geology of the District
Southern Colombia, where Nariño Department is located, is dominated by uplifted rocks that form the Andes Mountains. In Colombia, the Andes Mountains splits into three branches. Most of the area in Western Nariño Department is the Western Cordillera (Cordillera Occidental).
Rocks in the area are Cretaceous to Tertiary sandstones, shales, and andesitic and basaltic volcanics intruded by Eocene diorite and granodiorite plutons. Rocks intruded by the igneous rocks show the effects of contact metamorphism. The granodiorite intrusive is a complex that was active over a long period. Age determinations range from Eocene 40.5 million years ago to Miocene 6.5 million years ago.
The dominant structural trend is a series of major north-northeast trending faults which have left lateral slip that created northwest trending shear zones that became the host to gold bearing polymetallic veins.
The area has a young topography with steep sloped “V” shaped valleys and covered by dense vegetation where the land is not developed for agriculture.
Set forth below is a map showing the geology of portions of the Guachaves District at the location of the concession IKE-10421X. The orange lines are the traces of veins as interpreted by JICA based on their geochemical work referenced above and for this reason the Company can provide no assurance as to the accuracy of the information or the manner in which it was compiled by JICA. The original map was prepared by JICA.
- 23 -
Geology
The mines in the area are located in a zone of northwest trending faults and shear zones that form clusters up to 5 kilometers long and are hosted within volcanic rocks intruded by the Eocene Piedrancha granodiorite batholith and within the granodiorite itself. The volcanic rocks are basalts, basaltic andesite, andesite agglomerates and brecciated tuffs. Most of the volcanic rocks are metamorphosed as a result of contact metamorphism to a chlorite- rich greenstone that may be classified as hornfels. The entire IKE-10421X concession application is located over the granodiorite pluton complex.
The structures containing the veins are NW-SE trending faults zones. These structures are cross faults to the general north-northeast fabric of the Western Cordillera.
The mineral deposits in the general area studied by JICA are epithermal and deposited by the action of the hydrothermal fluids in several depositional periods. The paragenesis (sequence of deposition) according to the JICA study is as follows. 1) Deposition of pyrite and arsenopyrite; 2) Deposition of gold and silver as electrum; 3) Deposition of the base metals minerals sphalerite, chalcopyrite and galena; and 4) Deposition of additional silver as pyrargyrite, argentite and polybasite. Silica deposition as quartz was continuous throughout most of the mineral deposition periods. Rock alteration is typical of hydrothermal epithermal deposits and varies from sericite-montmorillonite within and adjoining the gold/sulfide mineralization to kaolin-chlorite on the outer edges. The alteration does not extend far from the mineralized veins.
The JICA reports do not describe any of the mines or prospects located within the IKE-10421X concession application. Some of these mines are located in their maps but without a description of them. The JICA maps show NW-SE trending veins in the IKE-10421X concession application. This information is included for an understanding of the general area within which the concession is found, has not been independently verified, and we caution that such information is not indicative of any identified deposits in the concession area of interest.
Reserves and Mineralized Material
At this time, we have no direct knowledge of mining activity within the boundaries of the IKE-10421X concession application.
The only drilling in the area was done by JICA in 1981 and 1982. We have no information that suggests that there has been no drilling anywhere within IKE-10421X concession application.
There are no reserves or mineralized material identified on the IKE-10421X concession application.
History, Exploration and Exploration Plan
After the first visit to the district where the concession application is located, it was determined to create the initial database as a baseline to evaluate the area of interest. Beginning in December 2010, we, as part of our due diligence process, began data compilation and review, and site visits began in 2011. Initial site visits included beginning work on geologic mapping and surveying, and sampling of nearby properties in the area to gain additional knowledge of the geological characteristics of the area. This reconnaissance work was ongoing in 2011as much of the property position has had only limited historical exploration. In February 2011, samples were taken from nearby properties.
- 24 -
Reconnaissance work within the concession application area was started in early April 2011. The work program included mapping and sampling the concession and nearby properties, including the El Desquite mine and other mines that are encountered during our Phase I exploration program, with emphasis on locating the identified geochemical anomalies indicated by the JICA work. This was required because of the humus accumulation over the 25 years since the JICA study. The areas within the IKE-10421X concession application and in proximity of El Desquite and Las Delicias mines are the principal exploration targets of the current program. The work was aimed at locating favorable areas for exploration drilling. This work was planned to include taking stream sediment and soil samples, geochemical analyses, and interpretation of results. This work commenced in April 2011, but exploration worked ceased in the third quarter of the period ending June 30, 2012. To date, we have taken assays from the nearby Diamante mine and assay results are under review and will be used to guide future efforts to determine projections of geological structures onto the concession application area. Field work has also provided basis for updated maps and geological maps. During the year ended June 30, 2013, our expenditures for activities for Colombia was less than $5,000.
Field reconnaissance work, which we began earlier in 2011, had been ongoing to cover the 1,800 plus hectare area (approx. 7 square miles). The initial focus is on geologic mapping and confirming historical data from government studies conducted in the 1980s. To date, this work confirmed the location of several former and current artisanal mines and workings within the project boundaries. In addition, we have been evaluating and sampling the nearby Las Delicias and El Diamante mines to increase our knowledge of the general area. In particular, the intent is to locate projections of veins from the two producing mines from adjacent properties onto the Santacruz Gold project. In the Cerro Los Churros area of the proposed Santacruz concession area, five old workings were identified. Mineralization was identified in the form of quartz veins with associated arsenopyrite and iron oxide, in part derived from alteration of basic rock-forming minerals and oxidation of pyrite in the veins and adjacent rock
We believe that an inactive small mine, known as Mina San Antonio, lies within the proposed concession area, but there is no specific recorded production from this mine that we have been able to ascertain . Evidence shows the mine was operated as an open-pit facility and that it contained several underground workings. Sampling at the Mina San Antonio has proved inconclusive to date.
We conducted surveying at the El Chitan area mine within the proposed concession. The Chitan I mine is inactive while the adjacent Chitan 2 mine and the nearby Narvaez area have artisanal mining occurring, with workings all being found along one vein at El Chitan mines and probably a different vein at Narvaez. The veins are located along faults and the adjacent wall rock shows phyllic alteration with a high sericite, pyrite and quartz content, and the accessible veins are narrow under 0.3 m. Preliminary channel sampling was conducted at El Chitan 1 and 2 mines and the Narvaez mine and surface outcrops in accessible areas with (fire) assays performed by SGS Peru. This work was conducted according to quality control procedures supervised by our Vice President of Exploration. The results of this limited sampling are set forth below.
Vn = vein, w= wallrock, Poligonal Guia refers to surface outcrops
(Note sampling methodology used included over 5000 parts PPB (Parts Per Billion) as the upper range)(vn=vein)
- 25 -
Exploration work, advanced knowledge of the area, including surveying and geologic mapping activities, determining prime areas for soil sediment sampling and re-sampling prospect pits that have been located. Our primary objective during Phase I exploration was identifying drill targets, preparing logistical arrangements for a drilling plan, continuing work for securing approval of the mining concession application which had been submitted and preparation for data to support our subsequent applications for regulatory approval of exploration activities, and review data of prior exploration in the area along with field work to verify historical data, particularly information on JICA maps indicating clusters of veins on the western portion within the concession. Our Phase II exploration phase, subject to results and timing of the completion Phase I exploration and regulatory approvals, includes a 6,000 meter planned drill program. We estimated drilling costs, including assays and review work, to be $200 a meter, thus the program before secondary charges would require $1.2 million in working capital to fund. We forecasted ongoing exploration activities at $150,000 to $300,000 per quarter for the following 18 months exclusive of our projected drilling program. We were forecasting subject to capital availability and timing of regulatory approvals required to explore in the area, a budget of approximately $2.1 to $3.0 million dollars for the Santacruz Gold project over the following 18 months. We were planning to duplicate exploration efforts of the prior Japanese studies by auger drilling and currently reviewing the permissibility of such work under Colombian prospecting rules. It will also be required to conduct certain environmental and community studies during this period leading to permission for exploration drilling, with minimum cost estimates of such studies at $150,000.
Our current cash on hand was insufficient to complete any of the planned exploration activities and the full implementation of our planned exploration program is dependent on our ability to secure sufficient financing.
Future Acquisition and Exploration Plans
We continue to evaluate any projects presented, and regularly monitor the political and economic situation in the Columbia. We do not expect in 2013 or the first half of 2014 to acquire any projects in Colombia by acquisition, lease, option, or joint -venture of letter of intent.
We estimate minimum base costs for office maintenance, administrative, and any due diligence activities for the upcoming year to be in the range of $10,000 to $36,000 in period July 2013 through June 2014. We do maintain Colombia as part of our geographic focus for our long term development. Colombia is a high-cost country to operate in, thus any future acquisitions would be highly subject to our ability to raise significant financing, which is not assured.
We have conducted reconnaissance exploration on various locations in the Nariño Mining district primarily to develop better understanding of the geology of the district and to consider in the future further acquisitions in the area, which would be contingent on securing sufficient financing and regulatory approvals, neither of which can be assured. We anticipate that general exploration activities required to identify, evaluate and acquire new prospects would require additional consulting, travel and sampling expense of $150,000 exclusive of acquisition costs.
We rent on a month to month basis office space totaling 900 square feet of office space.
USA
Our mining properties and mineral property interests are in the United States are:
GB 2 Gold
Leased Claims
The nine unpatented mining claims underlying the GB2 Lease cover approximately 180 acres and are located in the Black Rock Mining District of Yavapai County, Arizona. Set forth below are the claim reference numbers.
Claim Reference Numbers
- 26 -
Owned Claims
The single Claim acquired by the Company has a BLM recording number of AMC 3993932 and county recording number of 84608P-982.
Location
The Black Rock Mining District is located in the southeast part of Yavapai County between the east foothills of the Bradshaw Mountains and the Agua Fria River. The following map shows the general location of the leased and owned unpatented mining claims we acquired in Yavapai County, Arizona:
Access
The Property is readily accessed from Wickenberg, Arizona (approximately sixty five miles northwest of Phoenix, Arizona), which lies on Federal Highway 93. Wickenberg is the nearest large town that has services necessary for mineral exploration and mining. From Wickenberg, paved Constellation Highway is followed about two miles, thence sixteen miles of dirt road lead to the Property. Unimproved tracks provide access to the claim group. Road access to the east side of the Property is limited.
History
The Yavapai County area of Arizona is an area of historic gold prospecting and production activities. However, the Company is not aware of any recorded history of production from the Property underlying the Lease or the Claim.
Climate, Local resources, Infrastructure, Physiography
- 27 -
Climate
The climate is semi-arid with roughly 12.2 inches/year precipitation, mostly in late winter. The Property can be accessed year-round because of the mild climate, good road access, and low elevation of about 1200 meters above mean sea level.
Water Rights, Power, and Mining Personnel
The status of water rights at the Property is uncertain. The amount of water in the vicinity of the Property is adequate for exploratory drilling in the winter, but may not be adequate for mineral processing. The nearest power lines are about 16 miles distant. Mining personnel are not available locally.
The most important natural feature on the Property is tertiary sandstones on the north end of the property.
Tailings Storage Areas, Waste Disposal Areas, and Plant Sites
The Company has not identified private land adjacent to the Property or within close proximity that could be used for potential storage areas, waste disposal or processing sites. There is public land in the vicinity, but it is unknown whether permits would be granted for such uses. There is evidence of old tailings on the project which have not been sampled.
Permitting
Preliminary geological mapping, sampling, and geophysical surveys can be conducted without any permits. A Plan of Operations (“POO”) will have to be filed and approved by the Bureau of Land Management before mechanized work such as access work or drilling can be undertaken on the Property. There is no cost to file a POO with the Bureau of Land Management. Water for drilling would need to be hauled into the property according to initial site visits. Permits are often granted in a short period of time as long as they do not significantly impact existing water rights or unduly degrade riparian areas.
Further mining exploration and exploitation activities are subject to federal, state and local laws, regulations and policies, including laws regulating surface disturbance, water discharge, and the removal of natural resources from the ground and the discharge of materials into the environment. These regulations mandate, among other things, the maintenance of air and water quality standards and land reclamation. They also set forth limitations on the generation, transportation, storage and disposal of solid and hazardous waste. Exploration and exploitation activities are also subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations which seek to maintain health and safety standards by regulating the design and use of exploration methods and equipment. The Company is unable to quantify at this time the potential cost of such regulations and permitting.(see also “Risk Factors ).
Infrastructure
There is no ascertainable infrastructure on the Property at present.
No adits or trenches have been identified on the property.
- 28 -
Regional Geology
The Property lies on the southern margin of Arizona’s Transition Zone physiographic province. The majority of the area is underlain by Precambrian gneiss, and at the north end of district Tertiary sandstone predominate. Historical information refers to complex igneous and metamorphic host rocks in the general area.
Geology and Mineralization
The Property is characterized by the Precambrian gneiss, with the westerly part exposed hornblende diorite porphyry-type mineralization identified form initial examination of the breccias pipes #4, #5 and #6. The host rock is mostly composed of Proterozoic formations intruded by younger igneous rocks.
Metallurgical
No metallurgical testing has been conducted.
Reserves
There are no established probable or proven reserves on the Property. Our due diligence activities have been limited, and to a great extent, have relied upon information provided to us by third parties. We have not established and cannot provide any assurance that any of the properties underlying the Lease or the Claim contain adequate, if any, amounts of gold or other mineral reserves to make mining economically feasible to recover that gold or other mineral reserves, or to make a profit in doing so.
- 29 -
Project Exploration Plan
The project area is an early stage prospect with potential identified to date from reconnaissance exploration. The initial objective is to identify the presence of and extent of breccia pipes on the Property. This will require an initial work plan of geologic mapping, surface sampling and soil analysis, after which a more comprehensive plan would be developed with an objective of identifying drill targets and developing a Plan of Operation to be filed with the BLM for permission to conduct such an exploration program.
In 2013, exploration efforts focused on the area adjacent to the identified breccias pipes, evaluating nearby properties for acquisition or lease, and considering potential bonding requirements for a drilling plan. Initial summary maps were prepared, and some surface sampling was conducted on a limited basis.
We estimate the initial work plan described above to require an estimated five thousand dollars ($5,000) for geological consulting, travel expenses, and sampling analysis costs. The company is reviewing the cost of providing necessary bonding for the project, and due to limited finances will consider in the upcoming fiscal year seeking a joint venture partner or selling the project while retaining a net smelter return. The Company is also considering joint-ventures, or a sale of the project while retaining a Net Smelter Return.
Lucky Boy Silver Project
In December 2011, we staked five unpatented mining claims in the Walker Lane Mineral Belt in western Nevada which we are referring to as the “Lucky Boy Silver Project”. During the year ended June 30, 2013, after initial reviews the Company decided not to continue its pursuit of the project.
In connection with the consideration of whether to stake these unpatented mining claims, we conducted a diligence review of the Lucky Boy Silver Project. The description of the Lucky Boy Silver Project contained herein is the product of our due diligence from an initial site visits and certain historical information publicly available which we have not been able to independently verify.
Land Status
We staked the following five unpatented mining claims in December 2011 covering approximately 100 acres of the Lucky Boy Silver Project:
History
The Lucky Boy Mine was discovered in 1906 by Guy E. Pritchard, and the unpatented claims staked are adjacent to the private land on which the mine was situated, however historic information does not indicate any production from the unpatented mining claims staked by us.
Reserves
There were no established probable or proven reserves on Lucky Boy Silver Project.
- 30 -
Current Status
The Company has elected to not pursue this project absent securing additional mineral property interests in the area.
Baltimore Silver Mine
Land Status
The Baltimore Silver Mine property consists of three patented mining claims covering approximately 60 acres.
Name of Claim Mineral Survey #
Last Hope 9689
Baltimore 1540
Mona 9689
The Company has also staked two unpatented claims as part of the project, thus the project as a whole contains approximately 100 acres.
Location
The Baltimore Mine property is located in Jefferson County, Montana, approximately twenty-two miles northeast of Butte, MT and four miles northwest of Boulder, MT. Coordinates are Section 7, Township 6 N, Range 4W, Jefferson County, Montana.
Access
Access is generally from Boulder, Montana by four miles of unimproved county road along the Boomerang Creek Road.
Climate and Physiography
The climate is relatively temperate allowing work generally all year around. The mine is on the eastern slope area of Sugarloaf Mountain, with ridges one thousand feet above the main valley. Elevations on the property range from 6,250 feet on ridge top to 5,800 feet above sea level near the Baltimore Mine. Vegetation consists of mostly sage but stands of conifers are common on the north slopes.
Local Resources
There are sufficient local resources for general material and supplies, and general labor. Electric power lines are within a mile of the property and water supply appears adequate for the property, though an assessment will be required for water supply for expanded drilling programs and future potential milling requirements.
Geology
The geology of the area is dominated by the monzonites of the Butte Batholith intruding into the older Elkhorn volcanics, consisting of green-gray welded tuffs and schists. East-westerly striking pyrite-galena bearing quartz veins have been deposited along or near to fault or shear zones with some sericitic alteration. The Baltimore shear or alteration zone can be over five thousand feet on the surface.
- 31 -
Metallurgy
The Company has neither metallurgical tests relating to the property, nor historical information as to recoveries of metal from ore formerly produced.
Reserves and Mineralized Material
There are no established reserves or mineralized material on the property according to available information on the project.
History and Historical Information on the Property
The following information has been provided by independent sources not been independently verified by the Company but provided for general informational purposes, and it should not be assumed that prior production results are an indication of potential future results.
The mine was discovered in the nineteenth century with regular shipments of ore reported in 1903 by lessees, and two thousand feet of workings. In 1907, it was reported the mine had six adits and a 140 foot shaft. In 1912, 60 men were employed at the mine, and it was extended an additional six hundred feet. By 1935 the underground workings were estimated at three thousand feet of crosscuts and drifts, in addition to tunnels. In 1960 it was reported that the mine had produced 18,148 tons of ore which yielded 1,734 ounces of gold, 275,489 ounces of silver, and 271,266 pounds of copper, 1,273,965 pounds of lead and 280,750 pounds of zinc. Past production is no indicator of future production potential which can only be determined through additional information on the property.
Limited sampling was conducted on the property in 1966, 1979, and in 1989, a 4,985 foot drilling program was conducted on the property. The Company is reviewing assays from these programs and working to correlate to available assay maps and considers that data contained as encouraging further exploration. The Company has also retained the geologist who conducted this sampling program.
Permitting
The Company is reviewing preparing an Exploration license or SME (Small Miners Exemption) for exploration activities on the property that may involve surface disturbance or water discharge, and commonly a bond may be required, which we estimate to be in the $2,500 to $15,000 range.
Development Work on the Property
The underground workings of the property include six tunnels reported by 1960 and an internal shaft at a vertical interval of four hundred feet, and three thousand feet of underground workings. Prior operator reports indicate that four of these tunnels the Hope, No. 4, 5, and 6 tunnels were evidently designed to explore the northeastern vein structure of the property.
The Company is considering a budget for rehabilitation of the Portals to gain further underground access.
Exploration Plan
The Company’s initial plans include compiling and reviewing all historical information on the property, and conducting initial site visits to determine costs and schedules for geological mapping, and status of the underground workings, and determining the optimum exploration plan based on this initial work. Our exploration plan is focused on confirming historic grades, and targeting areas that may yield commercial grades and sufficient tonnages to justify rehabilitation of underground workings and drilling to delineate potential ore reserves. This preliminary assessment will consider initial approximate cost estimates including the availability of any regional milling facilities. The Company estimates a budget of $5,000 to $50,000 may be required in initial stages of exploration.
- 32 -
We began our Phase I exploration which has included a thorough review of the current status of access to the underground workings, having a professional geologist and a mining engineer performing field work on the property. We have completed an initial survey of the dump material, and review of the historical literature. Exploration objectives include (a) further determination of the economics of processing the dump material (b) rehabilitation work to gain access further underground to conduct channel sampling (c) determining drill targets (c) detailed geologic mapping. We believe that while some potential is in identifying mineralized areas former mining with limited technology may have missed that there may be much deeper exploration targets to be tested from underground or surface drilling. We also intend to prepare the necessary plan of operations for the unpatented portion of the project, and consider applications for any state mining permits.
We have begun sampling dump material located near the various portals and estimate the total tonnage to be approximately nine thousand tons for initial sampling and surveying however this effort has not been completed. This material was most likely that which in an era of hand-picking ore for shipment was discarded as uneconomic at the time. We have not completed our initial sampling of this dump material which is comprised of material that was discarded as not economic during the production process in an era of lower precious metal prices. Preliminary dump samples average 2.2 ounces of silver per ton, however additional assays for additional samples has not been received as of June 30, 2013.
The historical reported production indicates a grade of 0 .09 ounces gold per ton and 15.2 ounces of silver per ton, we have not independently verified this information, and it may not be indicative of future potential. Our prime exploration objective is to conduct sampling and drilling to determine the extent of mineralization present in the mine and whether of commercial grades. There is no assurance of success in identifying additional ore-grade material, nor if the grade would approach that of historical reports. We are in the process of developing a work plan, cost estimates and permit review for gaining access to underground workings. We intend also to investigate processing costs and recoveries for any dump material determined to be potentially economic. We have retained a local mine engineer to evaluate the costs and timing of the permitting process to begin regaining access to underground levels. We are evaluating bonding requirements for the project. The Company believes the project to be of merit in the current price environment for gold and silver, yet financing constraints have limited development work required for the project.
New Light Mine - Description of the Property
Land Status
Effective January 22, 2012, the Company leased from a private party two unpatented claims covering a significant portion of the former New Light Mine. The lease covers:
BLM recording numbers OMC 169670 and 169671
County recording numbers 2121100607 and 2121100608
Location
The property is situated in the Slate Creek Mining District, Section 27, T38N, R17E, in Whatcom County, Washington.
We have not finished detailed mapping on the property.
- 33 -
Access and Elevation
The elevation of the New Light property area ranges from 5,300 to 6,900 feet.
The Slate Creek Mining District is approximately 16 miles west of Mazama. From Mazama on SR 20, proceed northwest past the Lost River Resort Airport to USFS road 5400, which climbs approximately 6 miles to Harts Pass; it then proceeds downgrade on Slate Creek Road approximately 2.4 miles to the intersection with a road following Benson Creek northerly past a locked gate. The SR 20 road may be closed in winter due to weather conditions.
Climate and Physiography
Heavy snowfall can often preclude exploration work on the property. We expect there will be periods of each year during the exploration stage it may not be cost-effective to work on the property.
Local Resources
There are sufficient local resources for general material and supplies, and general labor. Electric power lines are within a mile of the property and water supply appears adequate for the property, though an assessment will be required for water supply for expanded drilling programs, future potential milling requirements, and to meet environmental requirements.
Regional Geology
Rocks in the vicinity of the New Light mine are argillite, quartzite, conglomerate, and shale of the Earl Cretaceous Harts Pass Formation The ore was reported localized in quartz shear zones up to 5 feet wide and in a quartz-cemented breccia pipe approximately 200 feet by 100 feet wide and 3,000 feet long. The breccia is offset by a major east-northeast-trending fault and several minor faults that cause considerable difficulty in tracing its continuity underground and on the surface. Contact metamorphism attributed to a diorite stock on the mine site recrystallized sandstones and shales to a hornfels-like material and played a role in formation of the breccia pipe. The breccia contains sharply angular fragments of quartzite and hornfels in the range of 1 to 4 inches long. These fragments make up about 80 percent of the rock mass; the remainder is composed of quartz-cemented veinlets 0.5 to 1 inch thick. The quartz cementation contains argentite, chalcopyrite, pyrite, galena, and free gold.
- 34 -
The state of Washington report indicates extensive sampling of the breccias by prior operators gave indications of gold and silver, and analysis of mill concentrate samples showed finely divided sooty grains of platinum. This information is included as historical in nature and which the Company has not been verified through sampling and assays by the Company.
Metallurgy
Flotation concentrates were reported shipped to the Cominco Ltd. smelter at Trail, B.C. It has been reported that a grab sample taken from the tailings exceeded maximum levels listed in the Model Toxics Control Act; additional metallurgical tests will be necessary to determine whether potential compliance issues may exist.
The Company has not conducted metallurgical tests and there are no estimates of percentage recoveries in from prior production.
Permitting
We have not reviewed permitting requirements but the Company expects permitting the property may be time-consuming and costly.
Reserves and Mineralized Material
We have not established reserves or mineralized material on the property.
History and Historical Information on the Property
The above and following information has been provided by outside sources has not been independently verified by the Company but is provided for general informational purposes, and it should not be assumed that prior production results are an indication of potential future results. The state of Washington has published through its department of geology a report on the mine.
The New Light Mine was a former producing mine from the Slate Creek Mining District. All of the former production in the area occurred on what is now unpatented land administered by the U.S. Forest Service lying within the Wenatchee-Okanogan National Forest, in which the claims we lease are located.
During the years 1895 through 1935 the mine was owned by several mining companies which mined gold, developed 8000 feet of underground workings, and constructed a ten-stamp mill. In 1935 a 50 ton per day mill was constructed at the site, and underground development work had reached 13,150 feet of underground workings. During the period 1942 to 1965 mill capacity was increased to 120 tons per day and diamond drilling was conducted. In the 1980s an avalanche destroyed much of the above-ground infrastructure.
Development Work on the Property
It has been reported that 13,150 feet of underground workings were developed on the property
Exploration Plan
The Company had begun a review of historical material on the property, which will include compiling the information, and reviewing guidance on developing an exploration plan. The exploration plan will include geologic mapping, surveying, review of environmental and permitting requirements, determining manner and cost of access to underground workings, determining whether our area of interest needs to be expanded, and review where available of former production records. It is apparent bonding requirements may be significant which is under consideration, and the company may seek a partner or sale of the project.
REAL ESTATE.
None.
- 35 -
PATENTS.
None.
ITEM 3.