ITEM 2. Properties.
Columbia
We maintain a small office in Medellin, Colombia, and continue to monitor developments in the political and economic situation, in particular the mining industry. We have acquired through our Kata acquisition and our own efforts, a database of information related to the Narino province (departmento) to guide us on due diligence on any projects we may seek to acquire in the country, though we do not plan to enter into any definitive agreement in 2012, or the first half of 2013 unless a clear mining law and regulations are in place in the country, that we would have sufficient working capital, and that any project presented to us met our acquisition criteria and an acceptable price.
Overview : Santa Cruz Gold Project and Narino Province
In 2010 the Company decided to extend its geographic focus to include Colombia, and in 2011 spent considerable time in business development and exploration activities in the Narino province of Colombia, including an agreement concerning the Santa Cruz Gold project. In November 2011 due to uncertainties in regard to the Colombian mining laws we acquired one hundred percent of Kata Enterprises, Inc., as described below, and terminated its agreements related to the Santa Cruz Gold project. We have built a database of information on the historic mining district of Narino, and remain interested in our prior target areas of exploration. The below description of our activities in Narino and the information acquired is outlined, however the reader is cautioned we at present have no mineral property interest in Colombia.
Agreement with Minera Kata S.A. for Acquisition of Equity Interest in Kata Enterprises Inc.
On February 25, 2011 (the “Effective Date”), we entered into a Stock Purchase Agreement with Minera Kata S.A., a corporation organized under the laws of the Republic of Panama (“Seller”), as amended and supplemented by Amendment No. 1 (the “Amendment”) dated April 25, 2011 (collectively, the “Agreement”), and acquired from Seller twenty-five percent (25%) of the outstanding capital stock (the “25% Stake”) of Kata Enterprises Inc., a corporation organized under the laws of the Republic of Panama (“Kata”), with an option to acquire from Seller the remaining seventy-five percent (75%) of the outstanding capital stock of Kata in exchange for total consideration of $550,000. We paid Seller partial consideration of $500,000 in cash (the “Closing Payment”) on the Effective Date and the remaining $50,000 in cash upon execution of the Amendment.
In November 2010, Kata entered into an agreement to acquire, through its subsidiary, an eighty-five percent (85%) interest in certain mining concessions located in the Nariño province of Colombia covering the area that is the subject of the IKE-10421X concession application (the “Mining Concessions”), but has not successfully closed that transaction as of this time (the “Kata Transaction”). Kata is an entity that has nominal operations. Our understanding was that closing of the Kata Transaction was conditioned upon the transferor of the Mining Concessions receiving acceptance of an application for a concession contract, executing a concession contract with Ingeominas (the entity authorized by the Colombian Ministry of Mines and Energy to grant mining concession contracts), registration of that contract at the National Mining Registry and securing the requisite approvals and governmental consents for the transfer of the Mining Concessions to Kata’s subsidiary. We could not provide any assurance that Kata, through its subsidiary, would be able to successfully close the Kata Transaction. In the event that Kata, through its subsidiary, failed to close the Kata Transaction and if by February 25, 2012 failed to have the Mining Concessions registered in the National Mining Registry of Colombia in favor of Kata’s subsidiary, the Agreement provides that Seller would have been obligated to deliver to the Company one-hundred percent (100%) of the outstanding capital stock of Kata (the “100% Stake”) without any additional consideration being paid. In such event, we would not have acquired any direct or indirect interest in the Mining Concessions and not be entitled to recover any of our exploration expenditures of other expenses incurred in connection with acquiring the 25% Stake, other than our entitlement, indirectly through our subsidiary, to the return of the $500,000 Closing Payment.
- 23 -
Under the terms of the Agreement, if we exercised all of the options to purchase in the Agreement and acquire the entire 100% Stake, we would pay Seller an aggregate of $4,000,000 in cash and issue to Seller 4,000,000 shares of our common stock in order to acquire one hundred percent (100%) of the outstanding capital stock of Kata.
Amendment No. 2 to Stock Purchase Agreement
On November 28, 2011, the Company entered into Amendment No. 2 to the Stock Purchase Agreement (“the Second Amendment”) with Minera Kata S.A., a corporation organized under the laws of the Republic of Panama (“Seller.”) Pursuant to the terms of the Agreement, the Company acquired from Seller twenty-five percent (25%) of the outstanding capital stock (the “25% Stake”) of Kata Enterprises, Inc.(“Kata”), and was granted certain options under which the Company could increase its ownership interest to acquire the remaining seventy-five percent (75%) of the outstanding capital stock of Kata. Kata Enterprises S.A.S., a corporation organized under the laws of the Republic of Colombia, is a wholly owned subsidiary of Kata and own eighty-five percent (85%) of the outstanding capital stock of Minera Nariño S.A.S., a corporation organized under the laws of the Republic of Colombia (“Minera Nariño.”)
The Agreement provided that Seller would be obligated to deliver to the Company one-hundred percent (100%) of the outstanding capital stock of Kata (the “100% Stake”) without any additional consideration being paid should Minera Nariño fails to close the Kata Transaction and failed by February 25, 2012 to have the Mining Concessions registered in the National Mining Registry of Colombia in favor of Minera Nariño. The Second Amendment modified the Agreement to extend the obligation of Seller to deliver the 100% Stake to include any termination of the agreement underlying the Kata Transaction and required the Company to pay Seller consideration of $10,000 should any of the conditions required for Seller to deliver to the Company the 100% Stake. Except for the foregoing changes, there were no other changes made by the Second Amendment to the Agreement.
The foregoing description of the Agreement does not purport to be complete is qualified in its entirety by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Form 8-K filed on March 2, 2011 and Exhibit 10.2 to the Form 8-K filed on April 29, 2011, each incorporated herein by reference
Termination Agreement
After the Colombian government began to make changes in its administration of the mining sector in late 2011 and early 2012, which may include the establishment of new government agencies and regulations and potentially adversely impact the Company by resulting in further delays in implementing plans and increased compliance costs. When the Agreement was initially entered into, the parties did not anticipate that an extended period of time would be required to secure approval of the IKE-10421X concession application. The Company has received no assurances that the approval of the IKE-10421X concession application is imminent. For the foregoing reasons, the Company determined that it would be in its best interest to abandon its plan to acquire an interest in the mining and mineral rights underlying any prospective concession contact to be granted on the basis of the IKE-10421X concession application if Seller would return the $500,000 cash payment it received from the Company when the Agreement was entered into on February 25, 2011 (the “Closing Payment”).
On November 18, 2011, Minera Nariño entered into a Termination and Transaction Agreement (the “Termination Agreement”) which resulted in the termination of the agreement under which it had a right to acquire the Mining Concession which were the subject of the IKE-10421 concession application should the Kata Transaction have successfully closed. Pursuant to the terms of the Termination Agreement, the Closing Payment was transferred to Kata Enterprises S.A.S. Also on November 18, 2011, Kata Enterprises S.A.S. entered into an agreement and acquired in exchange for approximately $750 USD the remaining fifteen percent (15%) of the remaining outstanding capital stock of Minera Nariño, which resulted in the acquisition by Kata Enterprises S.A.S. of all of the outstanding stock of Minera Nariño. The Company completed its purchase accounting at this time for the transaction.
- 24 -
Description of Property Underlying the IKE-10421X Concession Application
In connection with our consideration of entering into the Agreement described above, which resulted in our acquisition of the 25% Stake in Kata with an option to acquire the remaining 75% of the outstanding capital stock of Kata, we conducted a legal, financial and business review of the financial condition, assets, liabilities and business of Kata and its subsidiary entities. The description that follows is the product of our due diligence of the property underlying the Mining Concessions that was the subject of the IKE-10421X concession application.
We caution that we do not presently have any interest, directly or indirectly, in the property underlying the IKE-10421X concession application described herein, which we also refer to as the “Santacruz Gold Project”. Our field work in the Santacruz Gold project area was undertaken in order to gather data for the purpose of placing us in a better position to develop and execute a plan for exploration and development of the Santacruz Gold Project, should we be successful in acquiring an indirect interest in a mining concession contract underlying the Santacruz gold project. We acquired a 25% equity interest in Kata, with an option to increase our ownership interest to 100%. Kata, through its subsidiary owns an 85% equity interest in Minera Narino, which has a contractual right, subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions, to acquire a mining concession contract covering the Santacruz Gold Project.
We subsequently negotiated as described above to acquire the remaining seventy five per cent (75%), and the underlying agreements with the Colombian subsidiary with the concession applicants were also terminated. In November 2011 we acquired the remaining seventy five per cent interest(75%) for $10,000, and terminated the underlying agreements with the Santa Cruz Gold project owners.
The information contained herein is presented to describe activities conducted during the fiscal year ending June 30,2012, and the type of information gathered for our database of information acquired in the acquisition of Kata or developed internally.
Location and Access
The Mining Concessions consist of one concession application IKE-10421X that covered an area of approximately covers an area of 1836 hectares. It is located in the south central part of the Nariño Department in southwestern Colombia. It is located in the municipality of Santa Cruz de Guachavez within the western drainage of the Western Cordillera (Cordillera Occidental).
The area of the property is accessible from Pasto via Highway 25 southwest to El Pedregal, 33 kilometers, and continuing west on highway 10 to Túquerres, 36 kilometers. At Túquerres a secondary road is followed north for 14 kilometers to Balalaika. A 13 kilometers improved road from Balalaika to the north reaches Guachaves. From Guachaves a 25 kilometer road partly to the southwest and turning to the northwest for the last 6 to 7 kilometers gives access to El Paraiso, a small settlement in the northern portion of the concession.
In the event that all conditions had been satisfied enabling Kata, through its subsidiary, to successfully close the Kata Transaction and acquire the Mining Concessions, it would have acquired an 85% interest in the executed concession contract that is the subject of concession application IKE-10421X. Our ownership interest in the concession contract would have occurred, if at all, indirectly through our ownership of an equity interest in Kata.
- 25 -
Set forth below is a map showing the general location of the area that is the subject of concession application IKE-10421X.
- 26 -
Set forth below is a map showing more specifically the location of the area that is the subject of concession application IKE-10421X. The IKE-10421X concession application covered an area that surrounds the concession FHRG-01, which is exclusive of and not part of the area covered by concession application IKE-10421X. Maps were prepared based on data derived from maps from prior exploration conducted by the Japan International Cooperation Agency (“JICA”) from 1981 to 1983 as well as our initial field observations.
- 27 -
Previous Exploration History
The larger district area where the concession application IKE-10421X is located was part of geological evaluation done by the JICA from 1981 to 1983. JICA did most of the geologic mapping with some adjustments that are currently shown in the Geologic map of Colombia.
The main objective of the work by the Japanese group, JICA, was to develop targets for mineral exploration that would potentially lead to the discovery of mineral deposits. As part of the program, extensive geochemical exploration was conducted in the area. The sampling involved soil and rock sampling. The reported results indicated zinc and arsenic anomalies in various locations in the area under study, with arsenic and zinc anomalies being considered indicators above buried veins. The area has extensive soil cover. Soil samples were collected from an average depth of 160 cm and ranged from 70 to 320 cm.
The only mine with recorded history of production in the district where IKE-10421X is located is El Diamante Mine. Detailed work by JICA to evaluate the vein mineralization in the district was done at El Diamante Mine which at the time was producing gold from ore at the surface and at one level. The Japanese mission mapped the area to locate the veins and drilled 15 diamond drill holes at that mine and adjacent areas. Our CEO,VP of Operations and VP Geology visited the El Diamante in 2011 an conducting underground site inspection on several occasions.
We have not independently verified the results shown by the JICA study and such information is included for the limited purpose of understanding of the district area. We caution that such information is not indicative in any way of results that may be obtained from the area covered by concession application IKE-10421X.
Regional Geology of the District
Southern Colombia, where Nariño Department is located, is dominated by uplifted rocks that form the Andes Mountains. In Colombia the Andes Mountains splits into three branches. Most of the area in Western Nariño Department is the Western Cordillera (Cordillera Occidental).
Rocks in the area are Cretaceous to Tertiary sandstones, shales, and andesitic and basaltic volcanics intruded by Eocene diorite and granodiorite plutons. Rocks intruded by the igneous rocks show the effects of contact metamorphism. The granodiorite intrusive is a complex that was active over a long period. Age determinations range from Eocene 40.5 million years ago to Miocene 6.5 million years ago.
The dominant structural trend is a series of major north-northeast trending faults which have left lateral slip that created northwest trending shear zones that became the host to gold bearing polymetallic veins.
The area has a young topography with steep sloped “V” shaped valleys and covered by dense vegetation where the land is not developed for agriculture.
- 28 -
Set forth below is a map showing the geology of portions of the Guachaves District at the location of the concession IKE-10421X. The orange lines are the traces of veins as interpreted by JICA based on their geochemical work referenced above and for this reason the Company can provide no assurance as to the accuracy of the information or the manner in which it was compiled by JICA. The original map was prepared by JICA.
- 29 -
Geology
The mines in the area are located in a zone of northwest trending faults and shear zones that form clusters up to five (5) kilometers long and are hosted within volcanic rocks intruded by the Eocene Piedrancha granodiorite batholith and within the granodiorite itself. The volcanic rocks are basalts, basaltic andesite, andesite agglomerates and brecciated tuffs. Most of the volcanic rocks are metamorphosed as a result of contact metamorphism to a chlorite- rich greenstone that may be classified as hornfels. The entire IKE-10421X concession application is located over the granodiorite pluton complex.
The structures containing the veins are NW-SE trending faults zones. These structures are cross faults to the general north-northeast fabric of the Western Cordillera.
The mineral deposits in the general area studied by JICA are epithermal and deposited by the action of the hydrothermal fluids in several depositional periods. The paragenesis (sequence of deposition) according to the JICA study is as follows. 1) Deposition of pyrite and arsenopyrite; 2) Deposition of gold and silver as electrum; 3) Deposition of the base metals minerals sphalerite, chalcopyrite and galena; and 4) Deposition of additional silver as pyrargyrite, argentite and polybasite. Silica deposition as quartz was continuous throughout most of the mineral deposition periods. Rock alteration is typical of hydrothermal epithermal deposits and varies from sericite-montmorillonite within and adjoining the gold/sulfide mineralization to kaolin-chlorite on the outer edges. The alteration does not extend far from the mineralized veins.
The JICA reports do not describe any of the mines or prospects located within the IKE-10421X concession application. Some of these mines are located in their maps but without a description of them. The JICA maps show NW-SE trending veins in the IKE-10421X concession application. This information is included for an understanding of the general area within which the concession is found, has not been independently verified, and we caution that such information is not indicative of any identified deposits in the concession area of interest.
Reserves and Mineralized Material
At this time, we have no direct knowledge of mining activity within the boundaries of the IKE-10421X concession application.
The only drilling in the area was done by JICA in 1981 and 1982. We have no information that suggests that there has been no drilling anywhere within IKE-10421X concession application.
There are no reserves or mineralized material identified on the IKE-10421X concession application.
History, Exploration and Exploration Plan
After the first visit to the district where the concession application is located, it was determined to create the initial database as a baseline to evaluate the area of interest. Beginning in December 2010, we, as part of our due diligence process, began data compilation and review, and site visits began in 2011. Initial site visits included beginning work on geologic mapping and surveying, and sampling of nearby properties in the area to gain additional knowledge of the geological characteristics of the area. This reconnaissance work was be ongoing in 2011as much of the property position has had only limited historical exploration. In February 2011, samples were taken from nearby properties.
Reconnaissance work within the concession application area was started in early April 2011. The work program included mapping and sampling the concession and nearby properties, including the El Desquite mine and other mines that are encountered during the our Phase I exploration program, with emphasis on locating the identified geochemical anomalies indicated by the JICA work. This was required because of the humus accumulation over the 25 years since the JICA study. The areas within the IKE-10421X concession application and in proximity of El Desquite and Las Delicias mines are the principal exploration targets of the current program. The work was aimed at locating favorable areas for exploration drilling. This work was planned to include taking stream sediment and soil samples, geochemical analyses, and interpretation of results. This work commenced in April 2011 but exploration worked ceased in the third quarter of the period ending June 30, 2012. To date, we have taken assays from the nearby Diamante mine and assay results are under review and will be used to guide future efforts to determine projections of geological structures onto the concession application area. Field work has also provided basis for updated maps and geological maps. We incurred expenditures on exploration in the year ended June 30, 2011 of $481,730 and $188,833 in the year ended June 30,2012..
- 30 -
Field reconnaissance work, which we began earlier in 2011, had been ongoing to cover the 1,800 + hectare area (approx. 7 square miles). The initial focus is on geologic mapping and confirming historical data from government studies conducted in the 1980s. To date, this work confirmed the location of several former and current artisanal mines and workings within the project boundaries. In addition, we have been evaluating and sampling the nearby Las Delicias and El Diamante mines to increase our knowledge of the general area. In particular, the intent is to locate projections of veins from the two producing mines from adjacent properties onto the Santacruz Gold project . In the Cerro Los Churros area of the proposed Santacruz concession area, five old workings were identified. Mineralization was identified in the form of quartz veins with associated arsenopyrite and iron oxide, in part derived from alteration of basic rock-forming minerals and oxidation of pyrite in the veins and adjacent rock
We believe that an inactive small mine, known as Mina San Antonio, lies within the proposed concession area, but there is no specific recorded production from this mine that we have been able to ascertain . Evidence shows the mine was operated as an open-pit facility and that it contained several underground workings. Sampling at the Mina San Antonio has proved inconclusive to date.
We conducted surveying at the El Chitan area mine within the proposed concession. The Chitan I mine is inactive while the adjacent Chitan 2 mine and the nearby Narvaez area have artisanal mining occurring, with workings all being found along one vein at El Chitan mines and probably a different vein at Narvaez. The veins are located along faults and the adjacent wall rock shows phyllic alteration with a high sericite, pyrite and quartz content, and the accessible veins are narrow under 0.3 m. Preliminary channel sampling was conducted at El Chitan 1 and 2 mines and the Narvaez mine and surface outcrops in accessible areas with (fire) assays performed by SGS Peru. This work was conducted according to quality control procedures supervised by our Vice President of Exploration. The results of this limited sampling are set forth below.
Vn = vein, w= wallrock, Poligonal Guia refers to surface outcrops
(Note sampling methodology used included over 5000 parts PPB (Parts Per Billion) as the upper range)(vn=vein)
- 31 -
Exploration work, advanced knowledge of the area, including surveying and geologic mapping activities, determining prime areas for soil sediment sampling and re-sampling prospect pits that have been located. Our primary objective during Phase I exploration was identifying drill targets, preparing logistical arrangements for a drilling plan, continuing work for securing approval of the mining concession application which had been submitted and preparation for data to support our subsequent applications for regulatory approval of exploration activities, and review data of prior exploration in the area along with field work to verify historical data, particularly information on JICA maps indicating clusters of veins on the western portion within the concession. We planned to establish semi-permanent base camps in the concession before January 2012. Our Phase II exploration phase, subject to results and timing of the completion Phase I exploration and regulatory approvals, includes a 6,000 meter planned drill program. We estimated drilling costs, including assays and review work, to be $200 a meter, thus the program before secondary charges would require $1.2 million in working capital to fund. We have forecasted ongoing exploration activities at $150,000 to $300,000 per quarter for the following 18 months exclusive of our projected drilling program. We were forecasting subject to capital availability and timing of regulatory approvals required to explore in the area, a budget of approximately $2.1 to $3.0 million dollars for the Santacruz Gold project over the following 18 months. We were planning to duplicate exploration efforts of the prior Japanese studies by auger drilling and currently reviewing the permissibility of such work under Colombian prospecting rules. It will also be required to conduct certain environmental and community studies during this period leading to permission for exploration drilling, with minimum cost estimates of such studies at $150,000.
Our current cash on hand was insufficient to complete any of the planned exploration activities and the full implementation of our planned exploration program is dependent on our ability to secure sufficient financing,
Future Acquisition and Exploration Plans
We continue to evaluate any projects presented, and our office in Colombia regularly monitors and reports on the political and economic situation in the country. We do not expect in 2012 or the first half of 2013 to acquire any projects in Colombia by acquisition, lease, option, or joint -venture of letter of intent. We are unable to forecast past the first half of 2013 without knowledge of the type of new mining law and organizational arrangements are implemented by the government for the mining industry.
We estimate minimum base costs for office maintenance, administrative, and any due diligence activities for the upcoming year to be in the range of $10,000 to $36,000 in period July 2012 through June 2013. We do maintain Colombia as part of our geographic focus for our long term development. Colombia is a high-cost country to operate in, thus any future acquisitions would be highly subject to our ability to raise significant financing, which is not assured.
We have conducted reconnaissance exploration on various locations in the Nariño Mining district primarily to develop better understanding of the geology of the district and to consider in the future further acquisitions in the area, which would be contingent on securing sufficient financing and regulatory approvals, neither of which can be assured. We anticipate that general exploration activities required to identify, evaluate and acquire new prospects would require additional consulting, travel and sampling expense of $150,000 exclusive of acquisition costs.
USA
We rent on a month to month basis office space totaling 900 square feet of office space.
Our mining properties and mineral property interests are in the United States are:
GB 2 Gold
On December 14, 2011, the Company entered into a Mining Lease and Agreement (the “GB2 Lease”) with Marilyn Bashore (“Bashore”) to lease nine unpatented mining claims situated in Yavapai County, Arizona (the “Property”).
The GB2 Lease granted the Company the exclusive right to prospect, explore, develop and mine the Property for gold, silver and other minerals. Under the terms of the Lease, the Company paid Bashore an initial payment of $500 and is required to pay Bashore an annual lease payment of $750 plus a 2% net smelter return on any production. The Company is required under the terms of the Lease to perform a minimum of $900 in annual assessment work on the Property. The GB2 Lease is for a fifteen (15) year term, but shall continue into perpetuity to the extent that minerals are produced and continue to be produced on the Property.
- 32 -
Also on December 14, 2011, the Company purchased from Bashore one unpatented mining claim situated in Yavapai County (the “Claim”). As consideration for the Claim, the Company paid Bashore $1,000. There was no purchase agreement documenting the Company’s acquisition of the Claim and the Claim was sold, transferred and conveyed by Bashore to the Company by executing and delivering to the Company a quitclaim deed.
Property Description and Location
Leased Claims
The nine unpatented mining claims underlying the GB2 Lease cover approximately one hundred and eighty (180) acres and are located in the Black Rock Mining District of Yavapai County, Arizona. Set forth below are the claim reference numbers.
Claim Reference Numbers
Owned Claims
The single Claim acquired by the Company has a BLM recording number of AMC 3993932 and county recording number of 84608P-982.
- 33 -
Location
The Black Rock Mining District is located in the southeast part of Yavapai County between the east foothills of the Bradshaw Mountains and the Agua Fria River. The following map shows the general location of the leased and owned unpatented mining claims we acquired in Yavapai County, Arizona:
Access
The Property is readily accessed from Wickenberg, Arizona (approximately sixty five miles northwest of Phoenix, Arizona), which lies on Federal Highway 93. Wickenberg is the nearest large town that has services necessary for mineral exploration and mining. From Wickenberg, paved Constellation Highway is followed about two miles, thence sixteen miles of dirt road lead to the Property. Unimproved tracks provide access to the claim group. Road access to the east side of the Property is limited.
History
The Yavapai County area of Arizona is an area of historic gold prospecting and production activities. However, the Company is not aware of any recorded history of production from the Property underlying the Lease or the Claim.
- 34 -
Climate, Local resources, Infrastructure, Physiography
Climate
The climate is semi-arid with roughly 12.2 inches/year precipitation, mostly in late winter. The Property can be accessed year-round because of the mild climate, good road access, and low elevation of about 1200 meters above mean sea level.
Water Rights, Power, and Mining Personnel
The status of water rights at the Property is uncertain. The amount of water in the vicinity of the Property is adequate for exploratory drilling in the winter, but may not be adequate for mineral processing. The nearest power lines are about 16 miles distant. Mining personnel are not available locally.
The most important natural feature on the Property is tertiary sandstones on the north end of the property.
Tailings Storage Areas, Waste Disposal Areas, and Plant Sites
The Company has not identified private land adjacent to the Property or within close proximity that could be used for potential storage areas, waste disposal or processing sites. There is public land in the vicinity, but it is unknown whether permits would be granted for such uses. There is evidence of old tailings on the project which have not been sampled.
Permitting
Preliminary geological mapping, sampling, and geophysical surveys can be conducted without any permits. A Plan of Operations (“POO”) will have to be filed and approved by the Bureau of Land Management before mechanized work such as access work or drilling can be undertaken on the Property. There is no cost to file a POO with the Bureau of Land Management. Water for drilling would need to be hauled into the property according to initial site visits. Permits are often granted in a short period of time as long as they do not significantly impact existing water rights or unduly degrade riparian areas.
Further mining exploration and exploitation activities are subject to federal, state and local laws, regulations and policies, including laws regulating surface disturbance, water discharge, and the removal of natural resources from the ground and the discharge of materials into the environment. These regulations mandate, among other things, the maintenance of air and water quality standards and land reclamation. They also set forth limitations on the generation, transportation, storage and disposal of solid and hazardous waste. Exploration and exploitation activities are also subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations which seek to maintain health and safety standards by regulating the design and use of exploration methods and equipment. The Company is unable to quantify at this time the potential cost of such regulations and permitting.(see also “Risk Factors ).
Infrastructure
There is no ascertainable infrastructure on the Property at present.
No adits or trenches have been identified on the property.
- 35 -
Regional Geology
The Property lies on the southern margin of Arizona’s Transition Zone physiographic province. The majority of the area is underlain by Precambrian gneiss, and at the north end of district Tertiary sandstone predominate. Historical information refers to complex igneous and metamorphic host rocks in the general area.
Geology and Mineralization
The Property is characterized by the Precambrian gneiss, with the westerly part exposed hornblende diorite porphyry-type mineralization identified form initial examination of the breccias pipes #4, #5 and #6. The host rock is mostly composed of Proterozoic formations intruded by younger igneous rocks.
- 36 -
Metallurgical
No metallurgical testing has been conducted.
Reserves
There are no established probable or proven reserves on the Property. Our due diligence activities have been limited, and to a great extent, have relied upon information provided to us by third parties. We have not established and cannot provide any assurance that any of the properties underlying the Lease or the Claim contain adequate, if any, amounts of gold or other mineral reserves to make mining economically feasible to recover that gold or other mineral reserves, or to make a profit in doing so.
Project Exploration Plan
The project area is an early stage prospect with potential identified to date from reconnaissance exploration. The initial objective is to identify the presence of and extent of breccia pipes on the Property. This will require an initial work plan of geologic mapping, surface sampling and soil analysis, after which a more comprehensive plan would be developed with an objective of identifying drill targets and developing a Plan of Operation to be filed with the BLM for permission to conduct such an exploration program.
We estimate the initial work plan described above to require an estimated five thousand dollars ($5,000) for geological consulting, travel expenses, and sampling analysis costs.
Lucky Boy Silver Project
- 37 -
In December 2011, we staked five unpatented mining claims in the Walker Lane Mineral Belt in western Nevada which we are referring to as the “Lucky Boy Silver Project”.
In connection with the consideration of whether to stake these unpatented mining claims, we conducted a diligence review of the Lucky Boy Silver Project. The description of the Lucky Boy Silver Project contained herein is the product of our due diligence from an initial site visits and certain historical information publicly available which we have not been able to independently verify.
- 38 -
Land Status
We staked the following five unpatented mining claims in December 2011 covering approximately 100 acres of the Lucky Boy Silver Project:
History
The Lucky Boy Mine was discovered in 1906 by Guy E. Pritchard, and the unpatented claims staked are adjacent to the private land on which the mine was situated, however historic information does not indicate any production from the unpatented mining claims staked by us.
Accessibility, Climate, Local resources, Infrastructure, Physiography
Topography, Elevation, Accessibility, Climate
The climate is semi-arid and the project area can be accessed year-round because of the mild climate, reasonably good road access, and low elevation of about 1200 meters above mean sea level.
Water Rights, Power, and Mining Personnel
The status of water rights at the Lucky Boy Silver Project is uncertain. The amount of water in the vicinity of the project area appears adequate for exploratory drilling, but probably not for mineral processing. The nearest power lines are about within 1 km. Mining personnel are not available locally, though Nevada has an extensive mining industry causing us to believe that regional sources of personnel may be available.
Tailings Storage Areas, Waste Disposal Areas, and Plant Sites
We do not control nearby private land adjacent to the Lucky Boy Silver Project or within close proximity that could be used for potential storage areas, waste disposal or processing sites.
Permitting
Preliminary geological mapping, sampling, and geophysical surveys can be conducted without any permits. A Plan of Operations (“POO”) will have to be filed and approved by the Bureau of Land Management before mechanized work such as access work or drilling can be undertaken on the Property. There is no cost to file a POO with the Bureau of Land Management. If water for drilling is to be drawn from the nearby Miller Tunnel, a temporary water withdrawal permit might be required from the State of Nevada and definitely form current property owners. These permits are often granted in a short period of time as long as they do not significantly impact existing water rights or unduly degrade riparian areas. The alternative is to truck in water for drilling purposes which increases costs.
Further mining exploration and exploitation activities are subject to federal, state and local laws, regulations and policies, including laws regulating surface disturbance, water discharge, and the removal of natural resources from the ground and the discharge of materials into the environment. These regulations mandate, among other things, the maintenance of air and water quality standards and land reclamation. They also set forth limitations on the generation, transportation, storage and disposal of solid and hazardous waste. Exploration and exploitation activities are also subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations which seek to maintain health and safety standards by regulating the design and use of exploration methods and equipment. We are unable to quantify at this time the potential cost of such regulations and permitting.
- 39 -
Infrastructure
There are reported working in the area including nearby shafts, however at present it has not been determined whether underground workings extended onto the project.
Regional Geology
The Lucky Boy Silver Project is located in the Walker Lane Mineral Belt in western Nevada. Rocks in the region encompassing the project areas range from Triassic age sediments to recent alluvium filling the basins. The western side of the region is dominated by Cretaceous age intrusive rocks forming the Wassuk Range.
The Walker Lane is a major northwest-southeast-trending fault zone which displays right lateral movement that ranges from 30 to 40 miles in its central portion, and hosts a variety of precious metal and base metal mineral deposits (as well as geothermal activity) along its length. Late Cenozoic faults of the central Walker Lane form a complex array of variably oriented structures characterized by coeval strike-slip and dip-slip motions.
The rock formations for the project areas fit into the regional setting described for Mineral County - About 30,000 feet of structurally complex calcareous, clastic, and volcanic rocks of Triassic and Jurassic age exposed in the central part of the county are flanked on the south by a few thousand feet of calcareous and clastic rocks of Cambrian, Ordovician, and Permian age. Intrusive into this sequence are granitic rocks, chiefly quartz monzonite, which are probably satellitic to the composite Sierra Nevada Batholith of Cretaceous age.
Lucky Boy Project Geology
The Lucky Boy Silver Project area lies along a fault zone which has Triassic Excelsior Formation to the south against Cretaceous granite to the north. Although alteration and mineralization appears to be primarily skarn-type (most likely related to some phase of the major intrusive that comprises the surrounding Wassuk Range) most of the major contacts noted during field reconnaissance are faults.
Lucky Boy Project Mineralization
Bodies of skarn are along a fault controlled contact between limestone and intrusive with ore lenses raking steeply west, Ore minerals reported were tetrahedrite, chalcopyrite, galena, azurite, and malachite, though the company has not verified this through systematic sampling.
Mineralization is contact skarn apparently along faults juxtaposing the Cretaceous intrusive rocks and Triassic Excelsior Formation limestone.
Metallurgical
No metallurgical testing has been conducted.
Reserves
There are no established probable or proven reserves on Lucky Boy Silver Project.
- 40 -
Project Exploration Plan
Initial exploration work will entail geologic mapping, data compilation and review, and to the extent justified surface sampling and sampling from accessible underground areas. Reconnaissance exploration indicates that there may limited potential from surface, exploration, drilling and underground access is key to determining future potential of the Lucky Boy Silver Project.
Our exploration plan would be divided into three phases, and execution of these plans is dependent on results from earlier phases and the availability of capital. The key strategic objective is to determine whether the mineralization extends at depth with a sufficient grade to permit a preliminary assessment to the potential for commercial mining. Initial funding required for exploration is estimated at $50,000 to cover consulting fees and expenses, systematic soil and surface sampling, identification of nearby properties that may be acquired to improve access, and develop a plan for drilling any established targets. Historical information suggests that there are may not be prospective for positive results from near-surface exploration, hence the company exploration plan would be focused on two key objectives (a) determine mineralization at depth ( in excess of 1500 feet) or identify parallel structures to areas of historic mining. If drill targets are established, we would foresee a Phase II exploration plan of $450,000, but the implementation of such plan is contingent on us securing sufficient financing which cannot be assured.
REAL ESTATE.
None.
PATENTS.
None.
ITEM 3.