ITEM 2.
PROPERTIES
As of December 31, 2012 we owned interests in producing oil and natural gas properties in 681 fields in the Permian Basin, Texas Panhandle, Wyoming, North Dakota, Montana, Oklahoma and several other states, operated 3,498 gross productive wells and owned non-operated interests in 4,109 gross productive wells. The following table sets forth information about our proved oil and natural gas reserves as of December 31, 2012. The standardized measure amounts shown in the table are not intended to represent the current market value of our estimated oil and natural gas reserves. For a definition of “standardized measure,” please see the glossary of terms at the beginning of this annual report on Form 10-K.
____________________
(a)
Reserves as of December 31, 2012 divided by annualized fourth quarter production volumes, with the exception of volumes associated with the COG 2012 Acquisition for which the twelve days of production from the date of acquisition to December 31, 2012 was annualized.
(b)
Texas margin taxes and the federal income taxes associated with a corporate subsidiary have not been deducted from future production revenues in the calculation of the standardized measure as the impact of these taxes would not have a significant effect on the calculated standardized measure.
(c)
As the Spraberry/War San field contains 9.9 MMBoe, or 11.9% of total proved reserves of 83.2 MMBoe, the following table presents the production, by product, for the Spraberry/War San field for the last three fiscal years:
Summary of Oil and Natural Gas Properties and Projects
Our most significant fields are the Spraberry/War San, New Mexico Lower Abo, Texas Panhandle, East Binger, Fullerton, Jordan, Deep Rock, Lea, Langlie Mattix and Fourbear/Fourbear Frank’s Fork. As of December 31, 2012, these ten fields accounted for approximately 46% of our Standardized Measure and 40% of our total estimated proved reserves.
Spraberry/War San Field. The Spraberry/War San field is located in Andrews, Howard, Midland, Martin, Reagan and Upton Counties, Texas. This Spraberry/War San field summary includes wells in the War San field which produce from the same formations and in the same area as our Spraberry field wells. This field produces from Spraberry and Wolfcamp age formations from 5,000 to 11,000 feet. We operate 232 active wells (228 producing, 4 injecting) in this field with working interests ranging from 5.5% to 100% and net revenue interests ranging from 4.2% to 90.8%. We also own another 128 non-operated wells (126 producing, 2 injecting). As of December 31, 2012, our properties in the Spraberry/War San field contained 9.9 MMBoe (67% liquids) of net proved reserves with a standardized measure of $194.2 million. The average net daily production from this field was 2,182 Boe/d for the fourth quarter of 2012. The estimated reserve life (R/P) for this field is 12.4 years based on the annualized fourth quarter production rate.
19 wells were drilled on Legacy Reserves’ properties in the Spraberry/War San field in 2012. We have identified 49 more proved undeveloped projects, primarily 40-acre infill drilling locations, and 8 behind-pipe or proved developed non-producing re-completion projects in this field. We have also identified several unproved drilling locations in this field.
New Mexico Lower Abo. The Lower Abo horizontal drilling play includes several fields located in Eddy, Lea and Chaves Counties, New Mexico. The primary fields in this play are named Crow Flats, Dog Canyon and County Line Tank. The producing formation in all of these fields is the Lower Abo at depths of 6,350 to 9,500 feet. Legacy acquired all of our wells in this play as part of the COG 2012 Acquisition. We operate 39 wells in the Lower Abo play with working interests ranging from 25% to 100% and net revenue interests ranging from 20.6% to 87.5%. We also own 16 non-operated wells. There has been considerable drilling activity in this area during recent years by the previous operator and operators of our non-operated wells, as 29 of our 39 operated wells have come online since January 1, 2010, which is resulting in significant flush production from these wells. As of December 31, 2012, our properties in the Lower Abo play contained 3.1 MMBoe (58% liquids) of net proved reserves with a standardized measure of $82.0 million. The average net daily production from this field was 1,476 Boe/d for the last 12 days of 2012 that Legacy owned these wells. The estimated reserve life (R/P) for the field is 5.8 years based on the annualized production rate, which is materially impacted by the aforementioned flush production from recent drilling activity by the prior operator. We expect this production rate to drop materially in 2013. Our engineers have identified seven proved undeveloped drilling projects as well as several unproved drilling projects in this area.
Texas Panhandle Fields. The Texas Panhandle fields are located in Carson, Gray, Hartley, Hutchinson, Moore, Potter, Sherman and Wheeler Counties, Texas. The fields are produced from multiple formations of Permian age which primarily include the shallow Granite Wash, Brown Dolomite, and Red Cave formations from 2,500 to 4,000 feet. Legacy operates 624 wells (582 producing, 42 injecting) in the Texas Panhandle fields with working interests ranging from 33.3% to 100% and net revenue interests ranging from 25% to 100.0%. We also own another 414 non-operated wells (402 producing, 12 injecting). As of December 31, 2012, our properties in the Texas Panhandle fields contained 6.0 MMBoe (71% liquids) of net proved reserves with a standardized measure of $71.1 million. The average net daily production from these fields was 1,192 Boe/d for the fourth quarter of 2012. The estimated reserve life (R/P) for these fields is 13.7 years based on the annualized fourth quarter production rate.
East Binger Field. The East Binger field is located in Caddo County, Oklahoma. The Marchand Sand, at depths of 9,700 to 10,100 feet, is the primary reservoir in the East Binger field. The East Binger Unit, the major property in the field, is an active miscible nitrogen injection project and is operated by Binger Operations, LLC (BOL), of which Legacy owns 50%. BOL operates 81 wells (57 producing, 24 injecting) in the East Binger field, and Legacy owns a working interest of 55.67% and net revenue interest of 46.9% in the East Binger Unit. As of
December 31, 2012, our properties in the East Binger field contained 3.2 MMBoe (82% liquids) of net proved reserves with a standardized measure of $60.8 million. The average net daily production from this field was 737 Boe/d for the fourth quarter of 2012. The estimated reserve life (R/P) for the field is 11.8 years based on the annualized fourth quarter production rate. We have identified five proved undeveloped drilling locations in this field.
Fullerton Field. The Fullerton field is located in Andrews County, Texas. Most of the production in the field is from the Clearfork formation which is under waterflood at depths of 5,750 to 7,100 feet. The field also produces from the San Andres, Wichita Albany and Devonian formations. Legacy acquired the majority of our wells in this field as part of the COG 2012 Acquisition. Legacy operates 79 wells (67 producing, 12 injecting) in the field with working interests ranging from 75% to 100% and net revenue interests ranging from 62.0% to 87.5%. We also own a 6.3% working interest and a 4.6% net revenue interest in one non-operated property in the field. As of December 31, 2012, our properties in the Fullerton field contained 1.8 MMBoe (90% liquids) of net proved reserves with a standardized measure of $48.8 million. The average net daily production from this field was 276 Boe/d for the last 12 days of 2012 that Legacy owned these wells. The estimated reserve life (R/P) for the field is 18.3 years based on the annualized production rate.
Our engineers have identified seven proved undeveloped infill drilling projects and 23 behind-pipe or proved developed non-producing projects in the field. We also have several additional unproved drilling locations and multiple unproved developed non-producing projects in the field.
Jordan Field. The Jordan field is located in Ector and Crane Counties, Texas. The field produces under waterflood from the San Andres formation at depths of 3,100 to 3,800 feet. We operate 70 wells (53 producing, 17 injecting) in the West Jordan Unit with a 53.1% working interest and a 39.8% net revenue interest. We also own a 35.9% non-operated working interest and a 29.7% net revenue interest in the Jordan University Unit which contains 180 wells (145 producing, 35 injecting). As of December 31, 2012, our properties in the Jordan field contained 2.2 MMBoe (91% liquids) of net proved reserves with a standardized measure of $44.1 million. The average net daily production from the field was 492 Boe/d for the fourth quarter of 2012. The estimated reserve life (R/P) of the field is 12.2 years based on the annualized fourth quarter production rate.
The Jordan University Unit was drilled in the 1930s through the 1960s on 20-acre spacing and waterflooding commenced in 1966. There have been over 100 infill wells drilled in the unit including ten 5-acre infill wells drilled in 2012. We have 15 more proved undeveloped and several unproved 5-acre drilling locations in the unit.
The West Jordan Unit was drilled in the 1930s through the 1960s on 20-acre spacing and waterflooding began in 1970. There have been 78 10-acre infill wells drilled in the unit. We have six proved developed 10-acre drilling locations, 10 proved developed non-producing projects and several unproved drilling locations in the unit.
Deep Rock Field. The Deep Rock field is located in Andrews County, Texas. Most of the production in the field is from the Glorieta formation at depths of 5,630 to 6,000 feet. The field also produces from the Pennsylvanian, Devonian and Ellenburger formations at depths from 6,000 to 12,200 feet. Legacy acquired the majority of our wells in this field as part of the COG 2012 Acquisition. We operate 155 wells (142 producing, 13 injecting) in the field with working interests ranging from 6.7% to 100% and net revenue interests ranging from 5.8% to 87.5%. We also own 204 non-operated wells (166 producing, 38 injecting). As of December 31, 2012, our properties in the Deep Rock field contained 1.9 MMBoe (96% liquids) of net proved reserves with a standardized measure of $43.6 million. The average net daily production from this field was 250 Boe/d for the last 12 days of 2012 that Legacy owned these wells. The estimated reserve life (R/P) for the field is 21.0 years based on the annualized production rate.
Our engineers have identified three proved undeveloped projects and one behind-pipe or proved developed non-producing projects in the field. We also have several additional unproved drilling location and multiple unproved developed non-producing projects in the field.
Lea Field. The Lea field is located in Lea County, New Mexico. Our Lea field properties consist primarily of interests in the Lea Unit and Lea Federal Unit. The large majority of the production from these properties is from the Bone Spring formation at depths of 11,100 feet to 16,800 feet. These properties also produce from the Morrow,
Devonian, Delaware and Pennsylvania formations at depths ranging from 11,150 feet to 14,500 feet. We operate 28 wells (24 producing, 4 injecting) in the Lea Field with working interests ranging from 12.5% to 100.0% and net revenue interests ranging from 15.0% to 81.3%. As of December 31, 2012, our properties in the Lea Field contained 1.7 MMBoe (73% liquids) of net proved reserves with a standardized measure of $37.1 million. The average net daily production from this field was 641 Boe/d for the fourth quarter of 2012, the large majority of which was from a new, horizontal Bone Spring well that initiated production in November 2012. As a result of the flush production from this well, the estimated reserve life (R/P) of the field is 7.2 years based on the annualized fourth quarter production rate. Our engineers have identified two additional proved and several unproved undeveloped horizontal Bone Spring drilling locations in the field.
Langlie Mattix Field. The Langlie Mattix field is located in Lea County, New Mexico. The primary reservoir in this field is the Queen formation at depths of 3,400 to 3,800 feet. We operate 98 wells (72 producing, 26 injecting) in the Langlie Mattix Penrose Sand Unit, a subdivision of the Langlie Mattix Field, with a 59.0% average working interest and a 50.7% average net revenue interest. We also operate 45 producing wells in the Skelly Penrose A Unit with a 100% working interest and a 86.8% net revenue interest, as well as eight other properties with eight active producing wells with an average net working interest of 95.9% and 80.8% average net revenue interests. As of December 31, 2012, our properties in the Langlie Mattix field contained 1.5 MMBoe (89% liquids) of net proved reserves with a standardized measure of $33.6 million. The average net daily production from this field was 235 Boe/d for the fourth quarter of 2012. The estimated reserve life (R/P) for the field is 17.7 years based on the annualized fourth quarter production rate.
The Langlie Mattix Penrose Sand Unit was drilled in the late 1930s and early 1940s on 40-acre spacing. Waterflooding commenced in 1958. There have been a total of 26 20-acre infill wells drilled on the Unit in four different drilling programs from 1983 to 2007. All four 20-acre infill drilling programs were successful. We have 22 more proved undeveloped locations and multiple unproved 20-acre locations.
Fourbear/Fourbear Frank’s Fork Fields. The Fourbear and Fourbear Frank’s Fork fields are located in Park County in the Big Horn Basin of Wyoming. These fields produce from multiple formations which primarily include the Pennsylvanian age Phosphoria and Tensleep formations from 3,000 to 4,000 feet. Legacy operates 50 wells (32 producing, 18 injecting) in these fields with working interests ranging from 83.1% to 100% and net revenue interests ranging from 72.2% to 89.1%. As of December 31, 2012, our properties in the Fourbear and Fourbear Frank’s Fork fields contained 2.0 MMBoe (100% liquids) of net proved reserves with a standardized measure of $33.5 million. The average net daily production from these fields was 487 Boe/d for the fourth quarter of 2012. The estimated reserve life (R/P) for these fields is 11.4 years based on the annualized fourth quarter production rate.
We have identified five behind-pipe or proved developed non-producing projects in these fields. We have also identified several unproved drilling locations and multiple unproved developed non-producing projects in these fields.
Proved Reserves
The following table sets forth a summary of information related to our estimated net proved reserves as of the dates indicated based on reserve reports prepared by LaRoche Petroleum Consultants, Ltd. (“LaRoche”). The estimates of net proved reserves have not been filed with or included in reports to any federal authority or agency. Standardized measure amounts shown in the table are not intended to represent the current market value of our estimated oil and natural gas reserves.
The following information represents estimates of our proved reserves as of December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010. These reserve estimates have been prepared in compliance with the Securities and Exchange Commission rules and accounting standards using current costs and the average annual prices based on the un-weighted arithmetic average of the first-day-of-the-month price for each month in the years ended December 31, 2012,
2011 and 2010. The pricing that was used for estimates of our reserves as of December 31, 2012 was based on an un-weighted 12-month average West Texas Intermediate posted price of $91.17 per Bbl for oil and a Platt's Henry Hub natural gas price of $2.76 per MMBtu. See the table below.
____________________
(a)
Standardized measure is the present value of estimated future net revenues to be generated from the production of proved reserves, determined in accordance with assumptions required by the Financial Accounting Standards Board and the Securities and Exchange Commission (using current costs and the average annual prices based on the un-weighted arithmetic average of the first-day-of-the-month price) without giving effect to non-property related expenses such as general administrative expenses and debt service or to depletion, depreciation and amortization and discounted using an annual discount rate of 10%. For the purpose of calculating the standardized measure, the costs and prices are unescalated. Because we are a limited partnership that allocates our taxable income to our unitholders, no provision for federal or state income taxes has been provided for in the calculation of standardized measure. Standardized measure does not give effect to derivative transactions. For a description of our derivative transactions, please read “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation - Investing Activities.”
(b)
Oil and natural gas prices as of each date are based on the un-weighted arithmetic average of the first-day-of-the-month price for each month, with these representative prices adjusted by property to arrive at the appropriate net sales price, which is held constant over the economic life of the property.
Proved developed reserves are reserves that can be expected to be recovered through existing wells with existing equipment and operating methods. Proved undeveloped reserves are reserves that are expected to be recovered from new wells on undrilled acreage for which the existence and recoverability of such reserves can be estimated with reasonable certainty, or from existing wells on which a relatively major expenditure is required for re-completion.
The data in the above table represents estimates only. Oil and natural gas reserve engineering is inherently a subjective process of estimating underground accumulations of oil and natural gas that cannot be measured exactly. The accuracy of any reserve estimate is a function of the quality of available data and engineering and geological interpretation and judgment. Accordingly, reserve estimates may vary from the quantities of oil and natural gas that are ultimately recovered. Please read “Risk Factors - Our estimated reserves are based on many assumptions that may prove inaccurate. Any material inaccuracies in these reserve estimates or underlying assumptions will materially affect the quantities and present value of our reserves.” Future prices received for production and costs may vary, perhaps significantly, from the prices and costs assumed for purposes of these estimates. Standardized measure amounts shown above should not be construed as the current market value of our estimated oil and natural gas reserves. The 10% discount factor used to calculate standardized measure, which is required by Financial Accounting Standard Board pronouncements, is not necessarily the most appropriate discount rate. The present value, no matter what discount rate is used, is materially affected by assumptions as to timing of future production, which may prove to be inaccurate.
From time to time, we engage LaRoche to prepare a reserve and economic evaluation of properties that we are considering purchasing. Neither LaRoche nor any of its employees have any interest in those properties, and the compensation for these engagements is not contingent on their estimates of reserves and future net revenues for the subject properties. During 2012, 2011 and 2010, we paid LaRoche approximately $306,861, $337,372 and $151,176, respectively, for such reserve and economic evaluations as well as its annual reserve report.
Internal Control over Reserve Estimations
Legacy's proved reserves are estimated at the well or unit level and compiled for reporting purposes by Legacy's reservoir engineering staff, none of whom are members of Legacy's operating teams nor are they managed by members of Legacy's operating teams. Legacy maintains internal evaluations of its reserves in a secure engineering database. Legacy's reservoir engineering staff meets with LaRoche periodically throughout the year to discuss assumptions and methods used in the reserve estimation process. Legacy provides LaRoche information on all properties acquired during the year for addition to Legacy’s reserve report. LaRoche updates production data from public sources and then modifies production forecasts for all properties as necessary. Legacy provides to LaRoche lease operating statement data at the property level from Legacy’s accounting system for estimation of each property’s operating expenses, price differentials, gas shrinkage and NGL yield. Legacy's reserve engineering staff provides all changes to Legacy’s ownership interests in the properties to LaRoche for input into the reserve report. Legacy provides information on all capital projects completed during the year as well as changes in the expected timing of future capital projects. Legacy provides updated capital project cost estimates and abandonment cost and salvage value estimates. Legacy's internal engineering staff coordinates with Legacy's accounting and other departments and works closely with LaRoche to ensure the integrity, accuracy and timeliness of data that is furnished to LaRoche for its reserve estimation process. All of the reserve information in Legacy's secure reserve engineering data base is provided to LaRoche. After evaluating and inputting all information provided by Legacy, LaRoche, as independent third-party petroleum engineers, provides Legacy with a preliminary reserve report which Legacy's engineering staff and its Chief Financial Officer review for accuracy and completeness with an emphasis on ownership interest, capital spending and timing, expense estimates and production curves. After considering comments provided by Legacy, LaRoche completes and publishes the final reserve report. Legacy's engineering staff, in coordination with Legacy's accounting department and its Chief Financial Officer, ensure that the information derived from LaRoche's reports is properly disclosed in our filings.
Legacy’s Acquisition and Planning Manager is the reservoir engineer primarily responsible for overseeing the preparation of reserve estimates by the third-party engineering firm, LaRoche. He has held a wide variety of technical and supervisory positions during a 35-year career with four publicly traded oil and natural gas producing companies, including Legacy. He has over 25 years of SEC reserve report preparation experience in addition to continuing education courses on reserve estimation and reporting, including one in 2009 covering the effect of the SEC’s Final Rule, Modernization of Oil and Gas Reporting. For the professional qualifications of the primary person responsible for the third party reserve evaluation, please see the last paragraph of Exhibit 99.1 - Summary Reserve Report from LaRoche Petroleum Consultants, Ltd.
Production and Price History
The following table sets forth a summary of unaudited information with respect to our production and sales of oil and natural gas for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010:
____________________
(a)
Reflects the production and operating results of the COG 2012 Acquisition properties from the closing date on December 20, 2012 through December 31, 2012.
(b)
Reflects the production and operating results of the Wyoming Acquisition and COG 2010 Acquisition properties from the closing dates of such acquisitions on February 17, 2010 and December 22, 2010, respectively, through December 31, 2010 as discussed further in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations."
Productive Wells
The following table sets forth information at December 31, 2012 relating to the productive wells in which we owned a working interest as of that date. Productive wells consist of producing wells and wells capable of production, including natural gas wells awaiting pipeline connections to commence deliveries and oil wells awaiting connection to production facilities. Gross wells are the total number of producing wells in which we own an interest, and net wells are the sum of our fractional working interests owned in gross wells.
Developed and Undeveloped Acreage
The following table sets forth information as of December 31, 2012 relating to our leasehold acreage.
____________________
(a)
Developed acres are acres spaced or assigned to productive wells or wells capable of production.
(b)
Undeveloped acres are acres which are not held by commercially producing wells, regardless of whether such acreage contains proved reserves. All of our proved undeveloped locations are located on acreage currently held by production.
(c)
A gross acre is an acre in which we own a working interest. The number of gross acres is the total number of acres in which we own a working interest.
(d)
A net acre is deemed to exist when the sum of the fractional ownership working interests in gross acres equals one. The number of net acres is the sum of the fractional working interests owned in gross acres expressed as whole numbers and fractions thereof.
Drilling Activity
The following table sets forth information with respect to wells completed by Legacy during the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010. The drilling activities associated with the properties acquired in the Wyoming Acquisition (February 17, 2010) and the COG 2010 Acquisition (December 22, 2010) are included subsequent to those acquisition dates. The information should not be considered indicative of future performance, nor should it be assumed that there is necessarily any correlation between the numbers of productive wells drilled, quantities of reserves found or economic value. Productive wells are those that produce commercial quantities of oil and natural gas, regardless of whether they produce a reasonable rate of return.
Summary of Development Projects
We are currently pursuing an active development strategy. We estimate that our capital expenditures for the year ending December 31, 2013 will be approximately $90 million for development drilling, re-completions and fracture stimulation and other development related projects to implement this strategy. All of these development projects are located in the Permian Basin, Wyoming and the East Binger field in Oklahoma. We will consider adjustments to this capital program based on our assessment of additional development opportunities that are identified during the year and the cash available to invest in our development projects.
Operations
General
We operate approximately 73% of our net daily production of oil and natural gas. We design and manage the development, re-completion or workover for all of the wells we operate and supervise operation and maintenance activities. We do not own drilling rigs or other oil field services equipment used for drilling or maintaining wells on properties we operate except for two single pole pulling units and a cable tool rig used for shallow well work in the Texas Panhandle fields. Independent contractors engaged by us provide all the equipment and personnel associated with these activities. We employ drilling, production, and reservoir engineers, contract geologists and other specialists who have worked and will work to improve production rates, increase reserves, and lower the cost of operating our oil and natural gas properties. We also employ field operating personnel including production superintendents, production foremen, production technicians and lease operators. We charge the non-operating partners an operating fee for operating the wells, typically on a fee per well-operated basis. Our non-operated wells are managed by third-party operators who are typically independent oil and natural gas companies.
Oil and Natural Gas Leases
The typical oil and natural gas lease agreement covering our properties provides for the payment of royalties to the mineral owner for all oil and natural gas produced from any well drilled on the lease premises. In the Permian Basin, this amount generally ranges from 12.5% to 33.7%, resulting in an 87.5% to 66.3% net revenue interest to us. Most of our leases are held by production and do not require lease rental payments.
Derivative Activity
We enter into derivative transactions with unaffiliated third parties with respect to oil, NGL and natural gas prices to achieve more predictable cash flows and to reduce our exposure to short-term fluctuations in oil and natural gas prices. We have entered into derivative contracts in the form of fixed price swaps for NYMEX WTI oil, West Texas Waha natural gas, ANR-Oklahoma natural gas and Rocky Mountain CIG natural gas as well as Midland to Cushing crude oil basis differentials. We have also entered into multiple NYMEX WTI oil derivative three-way collar contracts. Each three-way contract combines a short call, a long put and a short put. The use of the short put allows us to buy a put and sell a call at higher prices, thus establishing a higher ceiling and limiting our exposure to future settlement payments while also restricting our downside risk. We receive the short call price if the market price is above the short call price, and we receive the market price if the market price is in between the short call and long put prices. If the market price is below the price of the long put, we receive the long put price only if the market price is still above the short put price. If the market price has fallen below the short put price, we receive the NYMEX WTI market price plus the spread between the short put and the long put prices. We also enter into derivative transactions with respect to LIBOR interest rates to achieve more predictable cash flows and to reduce our exposure to short-term fluctuations in LIBOR interest rates. All of our interest rate derivative transactions are LIBOR interest rate swaps, which do not require option premiums. Our derivatives swap floating LIBOR rates for fixed rates. All of our current derivative counterparties are current or former members of our bank group. For a more detailed discussion of our derivative activities, please read “Business - Oil and Natural Gas Derivative Activities,” “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Cash Flow from Operations” and “- Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.”
Title to Properties
Prior to completing an acquisition of producing oil and natural gas leases, we perform title reviews on significant leases and, depending on the materiality of properties, we may obtain a title opinion or review previously obtained title opinions. As a result, title opinions have been obtained on a portion of our properties.
As is customary in the oil and natural gas industry, we initially conduct only a cursory review of the title to our properties on which we do not have proved reserves. Prior to the commencement of drilling operations on those properties, we conduct a thorough title examination and perform curative work with respect to significant defects. To the extent title opinions or other investigations reflect title defects on those properties, we are typically responsible for curing any title defects at our expense. We generally will not commence drilling operations on a property until we have cured any material title defects on such property.
We believe that we have satisfactory title to all of our material assets. Although title to these properties is subject to encumbrances in some cases, such as customary interests generally retained in connection with the acquisition of real property, customary royalty interests and contract terms and restrictions, liens under operating agreements, liens related to environmental liabilities associated with historical operations, liens for current taxes and other burdens, easements, restrictions and minor encumbrances customary in the oil and natural gas industry, we believe that none of these liens, restrictions, easements, burdens and encumbrances will materially detract from the value of these properties or from our interest in these properties or will materially interfere with our use in the operation of our business. In addition, we believe that we have obtained sufficient rights-of-way grants and permits from public authorities and private parties for us to operate our business in all material respects as described in this document.
ITEM 3.