ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
As of December 31, 2007 we owned interests in producing oil and natural gas properties in 214 fields in the Permian Basin, Texas Panhandle and Anadarko Basin of Oklahoma, operated 1,547 gross productive wells and owned non-operated interests in 2,207 gross productive wells. The following table sets forth information about our proved oil and natural gas reserves as of December 31, 2007. The standardized measure amounts shown in the table are not intended to represent the current market value of our estimated oil and natural gas reserves. For a definition of “standardized measure” please see the glossary of terms at the beginning of this annual report on Form 10-K.
Summary of Oil and Natural Gas Properties and Projects
Our most significant fields are the Texas Panhandle, Spraberry, East Binger, Denton, Farmer, Langlie Mattix and Howard Glasscock/Iatan/Iatan East Howard. As of December 31, 2007 these seven fields accounted for approximately 56.7% of our total estimated proved reserves.
Texas Panhandle Fields. In October of 2007, Legacy Reserves acquired producing properties in the Texas Panhandle fields located in Carson, Gray, Hartley, Hutchinson, Moore, and Potter Counties, Texas, in two acquisitions. The fields are produced from multiple formations of Permian age which primarily include the Granite Wash, Brown Dolomite, and Red Cave formations from 2,500 to 4,000 feet. Legacy operates 277 wells (263 producing, 14 injecting) in the Texas Panhandle fields with working interests ranging from 81.3% to 100% and net revenue interests ranging from 69.3% to 100.0%. We also own another 271 wells (268 producing, 3 injecting) with a 3.8% average non-operated working interest. As of December 31, 2007, our properties in the Texas Panhandle fields contained 4.6 MMBoe (81% liquids) of net proved reserves with a standardized measure of $86.9 million. The average net daily production from these fields was 1,086 Boe/d in December 2007. The estimated reserve life (R/P) for these fields is 19 years.
Spraberry Field. The Spraberry field is located in Midland, Martin, Reagan and Upton counties, Texas. This field produces from Spraberry and Wolfcamp age formations from 5,000 to 10,200 feet. We operate 127 active wells in this field with working interests ranging from 4.0% to 100% and net revenue interests ranging from 4.0% to 90.8%. We have a 1.3% overriding royalty interest in one non-operated unit in the Spraberry field. We also have three lease line wells outside the non-operated unit with a working interest of 12.5% and a net revenue interest of 9.4%. As of December 31, 2007, our properties in the Spraberry field contained 3.6 MMBoe (67% liquids) of net proved reserves with a standardized measure of $84.7 million. The average net daily production from this field was 586 Boe/d for the fourth quarter of 2007. The estimated reserve life for this field is 14 years.
Six operated and three non-operated wells were drilled on Legacy Reserves’ properties in the Spraberry Field in 2007. We have identified eleven more proved undeveloped projects and eight behind-pipe or proved developed non-producing (“PDNP”) re-completion projects in this field.
East Binger Field. In April 2007, Legacy Reserves acquired producing properties in the East Binger field located in Caddo County, Oklahoma. This field which is on the Northeastern shelf of the Anadarko Basin was discovered in 1935 and through December 31, 2007, our properties in this field had gross cumulative production of 22.0 MMBbls of oil and 130.5 Bcf of natural gas. The Marchand Sand, at depths of 9,700 to 10,100 feet, is the primary reservoir in the East Binger Field. The East Binger Unit, the major property in the field, is an active miscible nitrogen injection project and is operated by Binger Operations, LLC (BOL) of which Legacy owns 50%. BOL operates 91 wells in the East Binger field and Legacy Reserves owns a working interest of 54.5% and net revenue interest of 45.8% in the East Binger Unit. As of December 31, 2007, our properties in the East Binger field contained 3.4 MMBoe (83% liquids) of net proved reserves with a standardized measure of $77.0 million. The average net daily production from this field was 812 Boe/d for the fourth quarter of 2007. The estimated reserve life (R/P) for the field is 13 years.
Two infill wells were drilled in the East Binger Unit in 2007 and we have nine more proved undeveloped projects identified in this field.
Denton Field. The Denton field is an oil and natural gas field located in Lea County, New Mexico. The Devonian Formation at depths of 11,000 to 12,700 feet is the primary reservoir in the Denton field. Additional production has been developed in the Wolfcamp Formation at depths of 8,900 to 9,600 feet. We operate 17 wells in the Denton field with working interests ranging from 86% to 100% and net revenue interests ranging from 75.1%to 87.5%. We also own another 6 producing wells with a 15.0% average non-operated working interest. As of December 31, 2007, our properties in the Denton field contained 2.2 MMBoe (87% liquids ) of net proved reserves with a standardized measure of $48.1 million. The average net daily production from this field was 390 Boe/d for the fourth quarter of 2007. The estimated reserve life (R/P) for the field is 16 years.
Farmer Field. The Farmer field is an oil and natural gas field located in Crockett and Reagan counties, Texas. The San Andres Formation at depths of 2,100 to 2,600 feet is the primary reservoir in the Farmer field. We operate 156 wells (148 producing, 8 injecting) in the Farmer field with a 100.0% average working interest and a net revenue interest ranging from 80.8% to 87.5%. As of December 31, 2007, our properties in the Farmer field contained 1.8 MMBoe (66% liquids) of net proved reserves with a standardized measure of $30.9 million. The average net daily production from this field was 275 Boe/d for the fourth quarter of 2007. The estimated reserve life (R/P) for the field is 19 years.
The Farmer field has been developed using 20-acre spacing with the exception of a pilot 10-acre spacing area that includes eleven 10-acre wells. We currently have 33 10-acre proved undeveloped locations in this field and an additional 84 unproved 10-acre locations.
Langlie Mattix Field. The Langlie Mattix field is an oil and natural gas field located in Lea County, New Mexico. The Queen Formation at depths of 3,400 to 3,800 feet is the primary reservoir in the Langlie Mattix field. We operate 104 wells (76 producing, 28 injecting) in the Langlie Mattix Penrose Sand Unit, a subdivision of the Langlie Mattix Field, with a 51.7% average working interest and a 44.7% average net revenue interest. We also operate two other properties with 100% and 82.4% working interests and 82.0% and 67.4% net revenue interests. As of December 31, 2007, our properties in the Langlie Mattix field contained 1.3 MMBoe (85% liquids) of net proved reserves with a standardized measure of $29.2 million. The average net daily production from this field was 218 Boe/d for the fourth quarter of 2007. The estimated reserve life (R/P) for the field is 17 years.
The Langlie Mattix Penrose Sand Unit was drilled in the late 1930s and early 1940s on 40-acre spacing. Waterflooding commenced in 1958. Prior to 2007 there had been 14 20-acre infill wells drilled on the Unit; five drilled in 1983, three drilled in 1992, and six drilled in 2004. All three 20-acre infill programs were successful. We drilled twelve 20-acre infill wells in 2007 and have 23 more proved undeveloped locations and an additional 55 unproved 20-acre locations.
Howard Glasscock, Iatan and Iatan East Howard Fields. The Howard Glasscock, Iatan and Iatan East Howard fields adjoin one another and are located in Howard and Mitchell counties, Texas. These fields produce from multiple formations of Permian age which primarily include the San Andres, Yates, Seven Rivers, Queen, Clearfork and Glorieta Formations from 1,000 to 3,700 feet as well as the Wolfcamp and Canyon Formations from 5,100 to 7,400 feet. We operate 125 wells (115 producing, 10 injecting) in these fields with working interests ranging from 62.5% to 100.0% and net revenue interests ranging from 47.3% to 90.0%. As of December 31, 2007, our properties in the Howard Glasscock, Iatan and Iatan East Howard fields contained 1.3 MMBoe (99% liquids) of net proved reserves with a standardized measure of $26.7 million. The average net daily production from these fields was 208 Boe/d for the fourth quarter of 2007. The estimated reserve life (R/P) for these fields is 17 years.
Oil and Natural Gas Data
Proved Reserves
The following table sets forth a summary of information related to our estimated net proved reserves as of the dates indicated based on reserve reports prepared by LaRoche Petroleum Consultants, Ltd. The estimates of net proved reserves have not been filed with or included in reports to any federal authority or agency. Standardized measure amounts shown in the table are not intended to represent the current market value of our estimated oil and natural gas reserves.
(a)
Includes 3.2 MMBbls of oil, 13.0 Bcf of natural gas and $93.0 million of standardized measure held by MBN Properties LP of which 1.7 MMBbls of oil, 7.0 Bcf of natural gas and $50.2 million of standardized measure was owned by the non-controlling interest.
(b)
Standardized measure is the present value of estimated future net revenues to be generated from the production of proved reserves, determined in accordance with assumptions required by the Financial Accounting Standards Board and the Securities and Exchange Commission (using prices and costs in effect as of the period end date) without giving effect to non-property related expenses such as general administrative expenses and debt service or to depletion, depreciation and amortization and discounted using an annual discount rate of 10%. Because we are a limited partnership that allocates our taxable income to our unitholders, no provision for federal or state income taxes have been provided for in the calculation of standardized measure. Standardized measure does not give effect to derivative transactions. For a description of our derivative transactions, please read “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Cash Flow from Operating Activities.
(c)
Oil and natural gas prices as of each date are based on NYMEX prices per Bbl of oil and per MMBtu of natural gas at such date, with these representative prices adjusted by field to arrive at the appropriate net price.
Proved developed reserves are reserves that can be expected to be recovered through existing wells with existing equipment and operating methods. Proved undeveloped reserves are reserves that are expected to be recovered from new wells drilled to known reservoirs on undrilled acreage for which the existence and recoverability of such reserves can be estimated with reasonable certainty, or from existing wells on which a relatively major expenditure is required to establish production.
The data in the above table represents estimates only. Oil and natural gas reserve engineering is inherently a subjective process of estimating underground accumulations of oil and natural gas that cannot be measured exactly. The accuracy of any reserve estimate is a function of the quality of available data and engineering and geological interpretation and judgment. Accordingly, reserve estimates may vary from the quantities of oil and natural gas that are ultimately recovered. Please read “Risk Factors - Our estimated reserves are based on many assumptions that may prove inaccurate. Any material inaccuracies in these reserve estimates or underlying assumptions will materially affect the quantities and present value of our reserves.” Future prices received for production and costs may vary, perhaps significantly, from the prices and costs assumed for purposes of these estimates. Standardized measure amounts shown above should not be construed as the current market value of our estimated oil and natural gas reserves. The 10% discount factor used to calculate standardized measure, which is required by Financial Accounting Standard Board pronouncements, is not necessarily the most appropriate discount rate. The present value, no matter what discount rate is used, is materially affected by assumptions as to timing of future production, which may prove to be inaccurate.
From time to time, we engage LaRoche Petroleum Consultants, Ltd. to prepare a reserve and economic evaluation of properties that we are considering purchasing. Neither LaRoche Petroleum Consultants, Ltd. nor any of its employees has any interest in those properties and the compensation for these engagements is not contingent on their estimates of reserves and future net revenues for the subject properties. During 2006 and 2007, we paid LaRoche Petroleum Consultants, Ltd. approximately $246,992 and $143,900, respectively, for such reserve and economic evaluations.
Production and Price History
The following table sets forth a summary of unaudited information with respect to our production and sales of oil and natural gas for the periods indicated, including the historical data of Legacy Reserves LP (formerly the Moriah Group) as of December 31, 2005, 2006 and 2007. The 2006 data reflects Legacy’s purchase of the oil and natural gas properties acquired in the formation transactions and the South Justis, Farmer Field and Kinder Morgan acquisitions. The 2007 data reflects Legacy’s purchase of the oil and natural gas properties acquired in the Binger, Ameristate, TSF, Raven Shenandoah, Raven OBO, TOC and Summit acquisitions:
Productive Wells
The following table sets forth information at December 31, 2007 relating to the productive wells in which we owned a working interest as of that date. Productive wells consist of producing wells and wells capable of production, including natural gas wells awaiting pipeline connections to commence deliveries and oil wells awaiting connection to production facilities. Gross wells are the total number of producing wells in which we own an interest, and net wells are the sum of our fractional working interests owned in gross wells.
Developed and Undeveloped Acreage
The following table sets forth information as of December 31, 2007 relating to our leasehold acreage.
(a)
Developed acres are acres spaced or assigned to productive wells or wells capable of production.
(b)
Undeveloped acres are acres which are not held by commercially producing wells, regardless of whether such acreage contains proved reserves. All of our proved undeveloped locations are located on acreage currently held by production.
(c)
A gross acre is an acre in which we own a working interest. The number of gross acres is the total number of acres in which we own a working interest.
(d)
A net acre is deemed to exist when the sum of the fractional ownership working interests in gross acres equals one. The number of net acres is the sum of the fractional working interests owned in gross acres expressed as whole numbers and fractions thereof.
Drilling Activity
The following table sets forth information, on a combined basis, with respect to wells completed by Legacy, the Moriah Group, Brothers Group, H2K, and the charitable foundations, during the years ended December 31, 2005, 2006 and 2007. The drilling activities associated with the PITCO properties are included for all periods subsequent to the acquisition date of September 14, 2005. The drilling activities associated with the properties acquired in the Farmer Field acquisition (June 29, 2006), the South Justis acquisition (June 29, 2006) and the Kinder Morgan acquisition (July 31, 2006) are included for all periods subsequent to those acquisition dates. The drilling activities associated with the properties acquired in the Binger acquisition (April 16, 2007), the Ameristate acquisition (May 1, 2007), the TSF acquisition (May 25, 2007), the Raven Shenandoah acquisition (May 31, 2007), the Raven OBO acquisition (August 3, 2007), the TOC acquisition (October 1, 2007) and the Summit acquisition (October 1, 2007) are included for all periods subsequent to those acquisition dates. The information should not be considered indicative of future performance, nor should it be assumed that there is necessarily any correlation between the number of productive wells drilled, quantities of reserves found or economic value. Productive wells are those that produce commercial quantities of oil and natural gas, regardless of whether they produce a reasonable rate of return.
Summary of Development Projects
We are currently pursuing an active development strategy. We estimate that our capital expenditures for the year ending December 31, 2008 will be approximately $18.2 million for development drilling, re-completions and re-fracture stimulation and other development related projects to implement this strategy. We intend to drill 24 gross (17.3 net) development wells and execute 12 gross (5.8 net) re-completions and re-fracture simulations projects. All of these development projects are located in the Permian Basin and the East Binger field in Oklahoma.
Operations
General
We operate approximately 61% of our net daily production of oil and natural gas. We design and manage the development, re-completion or work-over for all of the wells we operate and supervise operation and maintenance activities. We do not own drilling rigs or other oil field services equipment used for drilling or maintaining wells on properties we operate except for two single pole pulling units used for shallow well work in the Panhandle fields. Independent contractors engaged by us provide all the equipment and personnel associated with these activities. We employ drilling, production, and reservoir engineers, geologists and other specialists who have worked and will work to improve production rates, increase reserves, and lower the cost of operating our oil and natural gas properties. We charge the non-operating partners an operating fee for operating the wells, typically on a fee per well operated basis. Our non-operated wells are managed by third-party operators who are typically independent oil and natural gas companies.
Oil and Natural Gas Leases
The typical oil and natural gas lease agreement covering our properties provides for the payment of royalties to the mineral owner for all oil and natural gas produced from any well drilled on the lease premises. In the Permian Basin this amount generally ranges from 12.5% to 33.7% resulting in a 87.5% to 66.3% net revenue interest to us. Most of our leases are held by production and do not require lease rental payments.
South Justis Unit Operating Agreement
In connection with our acquisition of the South Justis Unit from Henry Holding LP on June 29, 2006, we became the successor in interest to Henry Holding LP as unit operator under the Unit Operating Agreement. As unit operator, we are entitled to receive from the other working interest owners a per well operating fee which we expect to be an aggregate of $1.7 million annually and is subject to an annual cost escalator. Under the terms of the Unit Agreement, we may be removed as unit operator upon default or failure to perform our duties by a vote of two or more working interest owners representing at least 80% of the working interest other than the interest held by us. In the event that we transfer our working interest ownership, we will be removed as unit operator.
Derivative Activity
We enter into derivative transactions with unaffiliated third parties with respect to oil and natural gas prices to achieve more predictable cash flows and to reduce our exposure to short-term fluctuations in oil and natural gas prices. All of our derivative transactions in place are NYMEX financial swaps, which do not require option premiums. Our derivatives either swap floating prices for fixed prices indexed on NYMEX for oil, NGL and natural gas or swap the NYMEX index price to an index that reflects a geographical area of production, in our case, the Waha natural gas and ANR-Oklahoma natural gas indices. We enter into derivative transactions with respect to LIBOR interest rates to achieve more predictable cash flows and to reduce our exposure to short-term fluctuations in LIBOR interest rates. All of our interest rate derivative transactions are LIBOR interest rate swaps, which do not require option premiums. Our derivatives swap floating LIBOR rates for fixed rates. For a more detailed discussion of our derivative activities, please read “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Cash Flow from Operations” and “- Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.”
Title to Properties
Prior to completing an acquisition of producing oil and natural gas leases, we perform title reviews on significant leases and, depending on the materiality of properties, we may obtain a title opinion or review previously obtained title opinions. As a result, title opinions have been obtained on a significant portion of our properties.
As is customary in the oil and natural gas industry, we initially conduct only a cursory review of the title to our properties on which we do not have proved reserves. Prior to the commencement of drilling operations on those properties, we conduct a thorough title examination and perform curative work with respect to significant defects. To the extent title opinions or other investigations reflect title defects on those properties, we are typically responsible for curing any title defects at our expense. We generally will not commence drilling operations on a property until we have cured any material title defects on such property.
We believe that we have satisfactory title to all of our material assets. Although title to these properties is subject to encumbrances in some cases, such as customary interests generally retained in connection with the acquisition of real property, customary royalty interests and contract terms and restrictions, liens under operating agreements, liens related to environmental liabilities associated with historical operations, liens for current taxes and other burdens, easements, restrictions and minor encumbrances customary in the oil and natural gas industry, we believe that none of these liens, restrictions, easements, burdens and encumbrances will materially detract from the value of these properties or from our interest in these properties or will materially interfere with our use in the operation of our business. In addition, we believe that we have obtained sufficient rights-of-way grants and permits from public authorities and private parties for us to operate our business in all material respects as described in this document.
ITEM 3.