ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
As of December 31, 2010 we owned interests in producing oil and natural gas properties in 370 fields in the Permian Basin, Texas Panhandle, Wyoming, Oklahoma and several other states, operated 2,132 gross productive wells and owned non-operated interests in 3,227 gross productive wells. The following table sets forth information about our proved oil and natural gas reserves as of December 31, 2010. The standardized measure amounts shown in the table are not intended to represent the current market value of our estimated oil and natural gas reserves. For a definition of “standardized measure,” please see the glossary of terms at the beginning of this annual report on Form 10-K.
____________________
(a)
Reserves as of December 31, 2010 divided by annualized fourth quarter production volumes, inclusive of production volumes from the COG Acquisition limited to the date of acquisition to December 31, 2010.
(b)
Texas margin taxes and the federal income taxes associated with a corporate subsidiary have not been deducted from future production revenues in the calculation of the standardized measure as the impact of these taxes would not have a significant effect on the calculated standardized measure.
Summary of Oil and Natural Gas Properties and Projects
Our most significant fields are the Spraberry, Texas Panhandle, East Binger, Jordan, Fourbear/Fourbear Frank’s Fork, Denton, Howard Glasscock/Iatan/Iatan East Howard and Farmer. As of December 31, 2010, these eight fields accounted for approximately 54% of our total estimated proved reserves.
Spraberry Field. The Spraberry field is located in Andrews, Howard, Midland, Martin, Reagan and Upton Counties, Texas. This field produces from Spraberry and Wolfcamp age formations from 5,000 to 10,200 feet. We operate 205 active wells (202 producing, 3 injecting) in this field with working interests ranging from 5.5% to 100% and net revenue interests ranging from 4.2% to 90.8%. We also own another 118 non-operated wells (117 producing, 1 injecting). As of December 31, 2010, our properties in the Spraberry field contained 8.2 MMBoe (67% liquids) of net proved reserves with a standardized measure of $109.2 million. The average net daily production from this field was 1,164 Boe/d for the fourth quarter of 2010. The estimated reserve life (R/P) for this field is 19 years based on the annualized fourth quarter production rate.
Seven wells were drilled on Legacy Reserves’ properties in the Spraberry Field in 2010. We have identified 65 more proved undeveloped projects and seven behind-pipe or proved developed non-producing re-completion projects in this field.
Texas Panhandle Fields. The Texas Panhandle fields are located in Carson, Gray, Hartley, Hutchinson, Moore, Potter, Sherman and Wheeler Counties, Texas. The fields are produced from multiple formations of Permian age which primarily include the shallow Granite Wash, Brown Dolomite, and Red Cave formations from 2,500 to 4,000 feet. Legacy operates 586 wells (541 producing, 45 injecting) in the Texas Panhandle fields with working interests ranging from 24.5% to 100% and net revenue interests ranging from 23.7% to 100.0%. We also own another 415 non-operated wells (403 producing, 12 injecting). As of December 31, 2010, our properties in the Texas Panhandle fields contained 7.2 MMBoe (71% liquids) of net proved reserves with a standardized measure of $85.9 million. The average net daily production from these fields was 1,171 Boe/d for the fourth quarter of 2010. The estimated reserve life (R/P) for these fields is 17 years based on the annualized fourth quarter production rate.
East Binger Field. The East Binger field is located in Caddo County, Oklahoma. The Marchand Sand, at depths of 9,700 to 10,100 feet, is the primary reservoir in the East Binger field. The East Binger Unit, the major property in the field, is an active miscible nitrogen injection project and is operated by Binger Operations, LLC (BOL), of which Legacy owns 50%. BOL operates 79 wells (55 producing, 24 injecting) in the East Binger field, and Legacy owns a working interest of 54.5% and net revenue interest of 46.1% in the East Binger Unit. As of December 31, 2010, our properties in the East Binger field contained 3.3 MMBoe (82% liquids) of net proved reserves with a standardized measure of $56.9 million. The average net daily production from this field was 802 Boe/d for the fourth quarter of 2010. The estimated reserve life (R/P) for the field is 11 years based on the annualized fourth quarter production rate.
Two infill wells were drilled in the East Binger Unit in 2010, and we have 6 more proved undeveloped projects identified in this field.
Jordan Field. The Jordan field is located in Ector and Crane Counties, Texas. The field produces under waterflood from the San Andres Formation at depths of 3,100 to 3,800 feet. We operate 63 wells (48 producing, 15 injecting) in the West Jordan Unit with a 53.1% working interest and a 39.8% net revenue interest. We also own a 35.9% non-operated working interest and a 29.7% net revenue interest in the Jordan University Unit which contains 180 wells (145 producing, 35 injecting). As of December 31, 2010, our properties in the Jordan field contained 2.4 MMBoe (88% liquids) of net proved reserves with a standardized measure of $41.1 million. The average net daily production from the field was 488 Boe/d for the fourth quarter of 2010. The estimated reserve life (R/P) of the field is 14 years based on the annualized fourth quarter production rate.
The Jordan University Unit was drilled in the 1930s through the 1960s on 20-acre spacing and waterflooding commenced in 1966. There have been over 100 infill wells drilled in the unit including nine 10-acre infill and four 5-acre infill wells drilled in 2010. We have 10 more proved undeveloped drilling locations in the unit.
The West Jordan Unit was drilled in the 1930s through the 1960s on 20-acre spacing and waterflooding began in 1970. There have been 65 10-acre infill wells drilled in the unit. We have 12 proved developed 10-acre drilling locations and 10 more proved developed non-producing projects in the unit.
Fourbear/Fourbear Frank’s Fork Fields. The Fourbear and Fourbear Frank’s Fork fields are located in Park County in the Big Horn Basin of Wyoming. These fields produce from multiple formations which primarily include the Pennsylvanian age Phosphoria and Tensleep formations from 3,000 to 4,000 feet. Legacy operates 64 wells (39 producing, 25 injecting) in the fields with working interests ranging from 83.1% to 100% and net revenue interests ranging from 72.2% to 89.1%. As of December 31, 2010, our properties in the Fourbear and Fourbear Frank’s Fork fields contained 2.4 MMBoe (100% liquids) of net proved reserves with a standardized measure of $29.2 million. The average net daily production from these fields was 349 Boe/d for the fourth quarter of 2010. The estimated reserve life (R/P) for these fields is 19 years based on the annualized fourth quarter production rate.
We have identified four proved undeveloped projects and one behind-pipe or proved developed non-producing project in these fields. We also have 10 additional unproved drilling locations in these fields.
Denton Field. The Denton field is located in Lea County, New Mexico. The Devonian Formation at depths of 11,000 to 12,700 feet is the primary reservoir in the Denton field. Additional production has been developed in the Wolfcamp Formation at depths of 8,900 to 9,600 feet. We operate 20 wells in the Denton field with working interests ranging from 86% to 100% and net revenue interests ranging from 75.1% to 87.5%. We
also own another 9 wells (7 producing, 2 injecting) with a 15.0% average non-operated working interest. As of December 31, 2010, our properties in the Denton field contained 1.9 MMBoe (83% liquids) of net proved reserves with a standardized measure of $27.6 million. The average net daily production from this field was 520 Boe/d for the fourth quarter of 2010. The estimated reserve life (R/P) for the field is 10 years based on the annualized fourth quarter production rate.
Howard Glasscock, Iatan and Iatan East Howard Fields. The Howard Glasscock, Iatan and Iatan East Howard fields adjoin one another and are located in Howard and Mitchell Counties, Texas. These fields produce from multiple formations of Permian age which primarily include the Yates, Seven Rivers, Queen, San Andres, Clearfork and Glorieta Fromations from 1,000 to 3,700 feet as well as the Wolfcamp and Canyon Formations from 5,100 to 7,400 feet. We operate 152 wells (139 producing, 13 injecting) in these fields with working interests ranging from 62.5% to 100.0% and net revenue interests ranging from 47.3% to 90.0%. We also own one non-operated producing well in this field with a working interest of 37.2% and a net revenue interest of 26.4%. As of December 31, 2010, our properties in the Howard Glasscock, Iatan and Iatan East Howard fields contained 1.4 MMBoe (99% liquids) of net proved reserves with a standardized measure of $23.3 million. The average net daily production from these fields was 281 Boe/d for the fourth quarter of 2010. The estimated reserve life (R/P) for these fields is 14 years based on the annualized fourth quarter production rate.
Farmer Field. The Farmer field is located in Crockett and Reagan Counties, Texas. The San Andres Formation at depths of 2,100 to 2,600 feet is the primary reservoir in the Farmer field. We operate 155 wells (147 producing, 8 injecting) in the Farmer field with a 100.0% average working interest and a net revenue interest ranging from 80.8% to 87.5%. As of December 31, 2010, our properties in the Farmer field contained 1.7 MMBoe (66% liquids) of net proved reserves with a standardized measure of $22.9 million. The average net daily production from this field was 249 Boe/d for the fourth quarter of 2010. The estimated reserve life (R/P) for the field is 19 years based on the annualized fourth quarter production rate.
The Farmer field has been developed using 20-acre spacing with the exception of a pilot 10-acre spacing area that includes eleven 10-acre wells. We drilled four 10-acre infill wells in 2010 and currently have 23 10-acre proved undeveloped locations in this field and an additional 90 unproved 10-acre locations.
Oil and Natural Gas Data
Proved Reserves
The following table sets forth a summary of information related to our estimated net proved reserves as of the dates indicated based on reserve reports prepared by LaRoche Petroleum Consultants, Ltd. (“LaRoche”). The estimates of net proved reserves have not been filed with or included in reports to any federal authority or agency. Standardized measure amounts shown in the table are not intended to represent the current market value of our estimated oil and natural gas reserves.
The following information represents estimates of our proved reserves as of December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008. These reserve estimates have been prepared in compliance with the Securities and Exchange Commission rules and accounting standards based on year-end prices and costs for December 31, 2008 and based on the 12-month un-weighted first-day-of-the-month average price for December 31, 2010 and 2009. The estimates of Legacy’s proved reserves as of December 31, 2010 and 2009 have been prepared and presented under new SEC rules and accounting standards. These new rules and standards are effective for fiscal years ending on or after December 31, 2009, and require SEC reporting companies to prepare their reserve estimates using revised reserve definitions and revised pricing based on 12-month un-weighted first-day-of-the-month average pricing. The previous rules required that reserve estimates be calculated using last-day-of-the-year pricing. The pricing that was used for estimates of our reserves as of December 31, 2010 was based on an un-weighted 12-month average West Texas Intermediate posted price of $75.96 per Bbl for oil and a NYMEX natural gas price of $4.38 per MMBtu. See the table below. As a result of this change in pricing methodology, direct comparisons of previously-reported reserves amounts may be more difficult. For instance, our proved reserves as of December 31, 2009 under the previous rules would have been approximately 41.2 MMBoe, compared to 37.1 MMBoe under the new rules. Additionally, our standardized measure as of December 31, 2009 would have been $613.3 million under the previous rules compared to $360.2 million under the new rules.
Another impact of the new SEC rules is a general requirement that, subject to limited exceptions, proved undeveloped reserves may only be booked if they relate to wells scheduled to be drilled within five years of the date of booking. This new rule has limited, and may continue to limit, our potential to book additional proved undeveloped reserves. Moreover, we removed 42 proved undeveloped projects from our reserve report for December 31, 2010 as we did not drill them within a five-year timeframe and may be required to remove additional proved undeveloped reserves in the future if we do not drill on those remaining reserves within the required five-year timeframe. We do not have any additional proved undeveloped reserves which have remained undeveloped for five years or more.
____________________
(a)
Standardized measure is the present value of estimated future net revenues to be generated from the production of proved reserves, determined in accordance with assumptions required by the Financial Accounting Standards Board and the Securities and Exchange Commission (using current costs and prices in effect as of the period end date for periods prior to 2009 and the average annual prices based on the un-weighted arithmetic average of the first-day-of-the-month price for each month of periods beginning on or after December 31, 2009) without giving effect to non-property related expenses such as general administrative expenses and debt service or to depletion, depreciation and amortization and discounted using an annual discount rate of 10%. For the purpose of calculating the standardized measure, the costs and prices are unescalated. Because we are a limited partnership that allocates our taxable income to our unitholders, no provision for federal or state income taxes has been provided for in the calculation of standardized measure. Standardized measure does not give effect to derivative transactions. For a description of our derivative transactions, please read “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation - Cash Flow from Operations.”
(b)
Oil and natural gas prices as of each date are based on NYMEX physical spot prices per Bbl of oil and per MMBtu of natural gas at such date for periods prior to 2009, and the un-weighted arithmetic average of the first-day-of-the-month price for each month of periods beginning on or after December 31, 2009, with these representative prices adjusted by property to arrive at the appropriate net sales price, which is held constant over the economic life of the property. These 2008 prices correlate to the NYMEX West Texas Intermediate near-month futures prices of $44.60 as of December 31, 2008 and the NYMEX Henry Hub near month futures prices of $5.62 as of December 31, 2008.
Proved developed reserves are reserves that can be expected to be recovered through existing wells with existing equipment and operating methods. Proved undeveloped reserves are reserves that are expected to be recovered from new wells on undrilled acreage for which the existence and recoverability of such reserves can be estimated with reasonable certainty, or from existing wells on which a relatively major expenditure is required for re-completion.
The data in the above table represents estimates only. Oil and natural gas reserve engineering is inherently a subjective process of estimating underground accumulations of oil and natural gas that cannot be measured exactly. The accuracy of any reserve estimate is a function of the quality of available data and engineering and geological interpretation and judgment. Accordingly, reserve estimates may vary from the quantities of oil and natural gas that are ultimately recovered. Please read “Risk Factors - Our estimated reserves are based on many assumptions that may prove inaccurate. Any material inaccuracies in these reserve estimates or underlying assumptions will materially affect the quantities and present value of our reserves.” Future prices received for production and costs may vary, perhaps significantly, from the prices and costs assumed for purposes of these estimates. Standardized measure amounts shown above should not be construed as the current market value of our estimated oil and natural gas reserves. The 10% discount factor used to calculate standardized measure, which is required by Financial Accounting Standard Board pronouncements, is not necessarily the most appropriate discount rate. The present value, no matter what discount rate is used, is materially affected by assumptions as to timing of future production, which may prove to be inaccurate.
From time to time, we engage LaRoche to prepare a reserve and economic evaluation of properties that we are considering purchasing. Neither LaRoche nor any of its employees have any interest in those properties, and the compensation for these engagements is not contingent on their estimates of reserves and future net revenues for the subject properties. During 2010, 2009 and 2008, we paid LaRoche approximately $151,176, $141,666 and $225,074, respectively, for such reserve and economic evaluations.
Internal Control over Reserve Estimations
Legacy provides LaRoche information on all properties acquired during the year for addition to Legacy’s reserve report. LaRoche updates production data from public sources and then modifies production forecasts for all properties as necessary. Legacy provides lease operating statement data at the property level from Legacy’s accounting system for estimation of each property’s operating expenses, price differentials, gas shrinkage and NGL yield. Legacy provides all changes in Legacy’s ownership interests in the properties to LaRoche for input into the reserve report. Legacy provides information on all capital projects completed during the year as well as changes in the expected timing of future capital projects. Legacy provides updated capital project cost estimates and abandonment cost and salvage value estimates. After evaluating and inputting all information provided by Legacy, LaRoche provides Legacy with a preliminary reserve report which Legacy reviews for accuracy and completeness. After considering comments provided by Legacy, LaRoche completes and publishes the final reserve report.
Legacy’s Acquisition and Planning Manager is the reservoir engineer primarily responsible for overseeing the preparation of reserve estimates by the third-party engineering firm, LaRoche. He has held a wide variety of technical and supervisory positions during a 33-year career with four publicly traded oil and natural gas producing companies, including Legacy. He has over 23 years of SEC reserve report preparation experience in addition to continuing education courses on reserve estimation and reporting, including one in 2009 covering the effect of the SEC’s Final Rule, Modernization of Oil and Gas Reporting.
Production and Price History
The following table sets forth a summary of unaudited information with respect to our production and sales of oil and natural gas for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008:
____________________
(a)
Reflects the production and operating results of the Wyoming and COG acquisition properties from the closing dates of such acquisitions through December 31, 2010.
(b)
Reflects the production and operating results of the COP III and Pantwist acquisition properties from the closing dates of such acquisitions through December 31, 2008.
(c)
Includes only the realized gains (losses) from Legacy’s oil and natural gas derivatives.
Productive Wells
The following table sets forth information at December 31, 2010 relating to the productive wells in which we owned a working interest as of that date. Productive wells consist of producing wells and wells capable of production, including natural gas wells awaiting pipeline connections to commence deliveries and oil wells awaiting connection to production facilities. Gross wells are the total number of producing wells in which we own an interest, and net wells are the sum of our fractional working interests owned in gross wells.
Developed and Undeveloped Acreage
The following table sets forth information as of December 31, 2010 relating to our leasehold acreage.
____________________
(a)
Developed acres are acres spaced or assigned to productive wells or wells capable of production.
(b)
Undeveloped acres are acres which are not held by commercially producing wells, regardless of whether such acreage contains proved reserves. All of our proved undeveloped locations are located on acreage currently held by production.
(c)
A gross acre is an acre in which we own a working interest. The number of gross acres is the total number of acres in which we own a working interest.
(d)
A net acre is deemed to exist when the sum of the fractional ownership working interests in gross acres equals one. The number of net acres is the sum of the fractional working interests owned in gross acres expressed as whole numbers and fractions thereof.
Drilling Activity
The following table sets forth information with respect to wells completed by Legacy during the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008. The drilling activities associated with the properties acquired in the COP III acquisition (April 30, 2008) and the Pantwist acquisition (October 1, 2008) are included for all periods subsequent to those acquisition dates. The drilling activities associated with the properties acquired in the Wyoming acquisition (February 17, 2010) and the COG acquisition (December 22, 2010) are included subsequent to those acquisition dates. The information should not be considered indicative of future performance, nor should it be assumed that there is necessarily any correlation between the numbers of productive wells drilled, quantities of reserves found or economic value. Productive wells are those that produce commercial quantities of oil and natural gas, regardless of whether they produce a reasonable rate of return.
Summary of Development Projects
We are currently pursuing an active development strategy. We estimate that our capital expenditures for the year ending December 31, 2011 will be approximately $45 million for development drilling, re-completions and re-fracture stimulation and other development related projects to implement this strategy. This capital budget includes, but is not limited to, the drilling of 47 gross (25 net) development wells and execution of 17 gross (12.3 net) re-completions and re-fracture simulations projects, all of which are included in our SEC reserve report. All of these development projects are located in the Permian Basin, Texas Panhandle, Wyoming and the East Binger field in Oklahoma. We will consider adjustments to this capital program based on our assessment of additional development opportunities that are identified during the year and the cash available to invest in our development projects.
Operations
General
We operate approximately 71% of our net daily production of oil and natural gas. We design and manage the development, re-completion or workover for all of the wells we operate and supervise operation and maintenance activities. We do not own drilling rigs or other oil field services equipment used for drilling or maintaining wells on properties we operate except for two single pole pulling units and a cable tool rig used for shallow well work in the Texas Panhandle fields. Independent contractors engaged by us provide all the equipment and personnel associated with these activities. We employ drilling, production, and reservoir engineers, geologists and other specialists who have worked and will work to improve production rates, increase reserves, and lower the cost of operating our oil and natural gas properties. We also employ field operating personnel including production superintendents, production foremen, production technicians and lease operators. We charge the non-operating partners an operating fee for operating the wells, typically on a fee per well-operated basis. Our non-operated wells are managed by third-party operators who are typically independent oil and natural gas companies.
Oil and Natural Gas Leases
The typical oil and natural gas lease agreement covering our properties provides for the payment of royalties to the mineral owner for all oil and natural gas produced from any well drilled on the lease premises. In the Permian Basin, this amount generally ranges from 12.5% to 33.7%, resulting in an 87.5% to 66.3% net revenue interest to us. Most of our leases are held by production and do not require lease rental payments.
South Justis Unit Operating Agreement
In connection with our acquisition of the South Justis Unit from Henry Holding LP on June 29, 2006, we became the successor in interest to Henry Holding LP as unit operator under the Unit Operating Agreement. As unit operator, we are entitled to receive from the other working interest owners a per well operating fee which was initially anticipated to be an aggregate of $1.7 million annually and is subject to an annual cost escalator. Under the terms of the Unit Agreement, we may be removed as unit operator upon default or failure to perform our duties by a vote of two or more working interest owners representing at least 80% of the working interest other than the interest held by us. In the event that we transfer our working interest ownership, we will be removed as unit operator.
Derivative Activity
We enter into derivative transactions with unaffiliated third parties with respect to oil, NGL and natural gas prices to achieve more predictable cash flows and to reduce our exposure to short-term fluctuations in oil and natural gas prices. The majority of our derivative contracts are in the form of fixed price swaps for NYMEX WTI oil, West Texas Waha natural gas, ANR-Oklahoma natural gas and Rocky Mountain CIG natural gas. Additionally, we have sold two call options related to an existing WTI oil swap. These swap related options (“swaptions”) allow the counterparty to extend the contract covering calendar year 2011 to either 2012, 2013 or both. We have also entered into a NYMEX WTI oil collar that combines a long put option or “floor” with a short call option or
“ceiling”, as well as multiple NYMEX WTI oil derivative three-way collar contracts. Each three-way contract combines a short call, a long put and a short put. The use of the long put combined with the short put allows us to sell a call at a higher price, thus establishing a higher ceiling and limiting our exposure to future settlement payments while also restricting our downside risk. Like a collar, we receive the short call price (net) if the market price is above the short call price, and we receive the market price if the market price is in between the short call and long put prices. Unlike a collar, however, if the market price is below the price of the long put, we receive the long put price only if the market price is still above the short put price. If the market price has fallen below the short put price, we receive the NYMEX WTI market price plus the spread between the short put and the long put prices. We also enter into derivative transactions with respect to LIBOR interest rates to achieve more predictable cash flows and to reduce our exposure to short-term fluctuations in LIBOR interest rates. All of our interest rate derivative transactions are LIBOR interest rate swaps, which do not require option premiums. Our derivatives swap floating LIBOR rates for fixed rates. All of our derivative counterparties are members of our bank group. For a more detailed discussion of our derivative activities, please read “Business - Oil and Natural Gas Derivative Activities,” “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Cash Flow from Operations” and “- Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.”
Title to Properties
Prior to completing an acquisition of producing oil and natural gas leases, we perform title reviews on significant leases and, depending on the materiality of properties, we may obtain a title opinion or review previously obtained title opinions. As a result, title opinions have been obtained on a significant portion of our properties.
As is customary in the oil and natural gas industry, we initially conduct only a cursory review of the title to our properties on which we do not have proved reserves. Prior to the commencement of drilling operations on those properties, we conduct a thorough title examination and perform curative work with respect to significant defects. To the extent title opinions or other investigations reflect title defects on those properties, we are typically responsible for curing any title defects at our expense. We generally will not commence drilling operations on a property until we have cured any material title defects on such property.
We believe that we have satisfactory title to all of our material assets. Although title to these properties is subject to encumbrances in some cases, such as customary interests generally retained in connection with the acquisition of real property, customary royalty interests and contract terms and restrictions, liens under operating agreements, liens related to environmental liabilities associated with historical operations, liens for current taxes and other burdens, easements, restrictions and minor encumbrances customary in the oil and natural gas industry, we believe that none of these liens, restrictions, easements, burdens and encumbrances will materially detract from the value of these properties or from our interest in these properties or will materially interfere with our use in the operation of our business. In addition, we believe that we have obtained sufficient rights-of-way grants and permits from public authorities and private parties for us to operate our business in all material respects as described in this document.
ITEM 3.