ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
Introduction
We acquired various mineral properties with the acquisition of Nevada Pacific, White Knight and Tone (the “Acquisitions”) in transactions described above in “Item 1. BUSINESS.” With the Acquisitions, we have a Nevada land position equal to approximately 217 square miles, of which approximately 124 square miles are located on the Cortez Trend. We also acquired approximately 0.8 square miles in Utah and approximately 1,379 square miles of mineral rights in Mexico, including the Magistral Gold Mine located in the state of Sinaloa, Mexico. The following table summarizes the US land position of our company as of December 31, 2007, grouped by Acquired Company:
The following Nevada trend map and property location map is presented to generally indicate the location of the trends and US Gold historic Tonkin property and our properties (please note that we have a very limited interest in the Tonkin Complex):
For purposes of organizing and describing our exploration efforts in the United States, we have grouped our properties into four complexes, the Tonkin Complex, the Gold Bar Complex, the Limo Complex and the Battle Mountain Complex. Mineral properties outside these areas and where limited exploration work has been performed by us to date are grouped as “Other United States Properties.”
In addition to the above US properties, we acquired mineral concessions in Mexico from Nevada Pacific, including the Magistral Mine. The Magistral Mine was previously operated as an open pit mining operation historically producing approximately 70,000 ounces of gold through heap leach processing facilities and last operated in July 2005. The Magistral Mine is located in northwestern México, within
Sinaloa state, Mocorito Municipality, México. In addition to the Magistral Mine complex of approximately 38 sq. miles, we acquired exploration concessions consisting of approximately 1,341 sq. miles located in the Mexican states of Sinaloa, Nayarit and Durango. In aggregate, we control approximately 1,379 sq. miles of mineral concessions in Mexico.
The following map illustrates the general location of the Magistral Mine and surrounding mineral concessions in Mexico:
Tonkin Complex
The Tonkin Complex includes US Gold’s historic Tonkin property, together with additional properties and interests acquired by us from the Acquired Companies. As shown in the graphic on page 15, the Tonkin Complex is divided functionally into five areas: the Mine Corridor, Tonkin North, Patty, Keystone and Tweed. Our interest in the Tonkin Complex represents approximately 49 square miles.
The Tonkin Complex is located on the Cortez Trend, approximately 48 miles by road northwest from Eureka, Nevada, 85 miles by road southwest from Elko and 245 miles by road east from Reno. The nearest commercial airport is located in Elko.
The Tonkin Complex includes US Gold’s historic mine site from operations in the 1980’s with several small open pits, stockpile areas, plant and established infrastructure, in which we have no interest. In 1988 and 1989, an integrated carbon-in-leach bacterial oxidation plant was built by US Gold. The plant and associated infrastructure was decommissioned and put on care and maintenance in June 1990, but apart from the SAG mill, which has been removed, it is complete and we believe it is in relatively good condition. These assets of US Gold are available to support our properties and exploration activities.
Exploration drilling on our portion of the Tonkin Complex for 2007 totaled 42,226 ft. in 45 drill holes. Additional exploration efforts at the Complex by us included geologic mapping, sampling and geophysical surveys. Our objective for the 2007 program at the Tonkin Complex was to identify feeders to known mineralization in US Gold’s Mine Corridor and to expand that known mineralization, as well as to test new targets elsewhere within our properties.
The following graphic depicts the Tonkin Complex including the historic Tonkin property of US Gold not owned by the Company:
The Keystone area of the Tonkin Complex includes both gold and base metal targets and the 2007 program was focused on testing the base metal potential as well as typical Carlin-style gold systems. Potential for mineralization at Keystone occurs within lower plate Nevada Group Limestone in close proximity to a granodiorite intrusive. A historic surface sample at Keystone returned values of
silver/zinc/copper/lead with an approximate metal value of $2,200 per ton 2007 prices. Two Carlin style gold targets and the base metal target were drilled in 2007 with twenty-three reverse circulation and core holes. Assay results from the gold targets generally showed little gold but did exhibit strongly anomalous pathfinder elements. Assay results from the base metal target contained only low grade silver/zinc/copper/lead mineralization. Targets farther from the intrusive are now believed to hold the best potential for mineralization and additional drilling is proposed for 2008.
The Tonkin Complex also includes the Patty Project in which we hold a non-operating minority interest (30%) and where Barrick Gold U.S. Inc. (“Barrick”) is manager and holds a 60% interest. The Patty Project is a large property (approximately 15.6 sq. miles) located in the northeast portion of the Tonkin Complex. The 2007 exploration program expenditures totaled approximately $631,106, of which our portion was $189,317. The 2008 exploration program is budgeted for $222,350, of which our share is $66,705. The 2008 program includes detailed project review, review of historic drilling at the property, and target generation. Barrick has indicated that the potential exists to increase the 2008 program to include exploration drilling as the program develops. From discussions with Barrick, we believe that certain of the gold mineralizing structures being evaluated at Patty could extend on to our other properties to the north and east of existing mineralization located in the Mine Corridor.
The mineral interests of the Company included in the Tonkin Complex are set forth in the following table:
The Company generally holds mineral interests in the Tonkin Complex through unpatented mining claims, leases of unpatented mining claims and joint venture and other agreements. Unpatented mining claims are held subject to paramount title in the United States. In order to retain these claims, we must pay annual maintenance fees to the Bureau of Land Management, or BLM, and counties within which the claims are located. Rates for these jurisdictions vary and may change over time. Other obligations which must be met include obtaining and maintaining necessary regulatory permits and lease and option payments to claim owners.
Cornerstone Property Lease. The Cornerstone property includes claims within and adjacent to the historic US Gold Tonkin property. Through Nevada Pacific, we hold an undivided portion of the Cornerstone property (106 claims) pursuant to a mining lease made effective as of May 25, 2004 (the “Lease”) which extends for a period of 10 years and is renewable in 5-year increments to a maximum term not exceeding 99 years, subject to certain conditions. The lessor has a sliding-scale gross production royalty of 3-4% of gross production in respect to gold and silver, as well as other royalties on other valuable materials. The Lease requires annual minimum advance royalty payments of the greater of $50,000 or the dollar equivalent of 130 ounces of gold. In addition, the Lease requires annual work expenditures of $50,000. We believe that current and past exploration are sufficient to hold the lease and the Company has a carry-forward work commitment balance. The Company has a legal dispute with the Lessor concerning Nevada Pacific’s rights of first refusal under the Lease, related to the 2007 sale of a 70% interest in the lease and to the covered mineral claims. If the Company is successful in this dispute it may have the opportunity to acquire a 70% undivided interest in the Lease and the mineral claims subject thereto.
Tone properties are generally subject to certain royalty and back in rights. Please see the “Other United States Properties” section below for further information.
Patty Property Joint Venture. The Patty Property is located in Eureka County, Nevada and consists of 544 unpatented mining claims totaling approximately 15.64 sq. miles. As noted above, the Company, through White Knight, owns a 30% undivided interest in the Patty Property subject to a joint venture with Barrick as 60% owner and operator. Chapleau Resources Ltd. owns the remaining 10% undivided interest.
Gold Bar Complex
The Gold Bar Complex is located south of the Tonkin Complex on the continuation of the Cortez Trend and includes property acquired from White Knight and Tone. The Gold Bar Complex is in the Roberts Creek Mountains, in Eureka County, Nevada, approximately 30 air miles northwest of the town of Eureka. The Complex may be accessed by traveling approximately 26 miles west of Eureka on U.S. Highway 50, 17 miles north on county maintained and graded Three Bar Road. Several unimproved dirt roads lead from there up into the project area.
The following graphic depicts the Gold Bar Complex:
Exploration drilling on priority targets at the Gold Bar Complex in 2007 totaled approximately 21,150 ft. (6,447 m) and included the Cottonwood and Macbeth areas. Geologic mapping and geochemical sampling were also conducted on the property. While favorable host rocks were encountered in the 2007 drilling, no strong gold mineralization was identified.
The Cottonwood area occurs along the western edge of the Roberts Mountains window covering a major northwest window bounding structure. Numerous Carlin-type silicified breccias with areas of anomalous surface gold mineralization are present along the major structure and at intersections with structures of other orientations.
At Macbeth, two parallel northeast-trending features have been identified that parallel another feature with historic gold mineralization which was mined by a third party in the 1980s. The information gathered on stratigraphy and fault zones in 2007 will be useful in developing the 2008 exploration program. In addition, results of all drilling, mapping and sampling, both historic and recent, are currently being modeled in a 3-D (three dimensional) geologic framework to assist in directing our future exploration.
We have also commenced an updated independent engineering estimate of remaining gold resources for the Gold Bar Complex which will reflect historic and updated technical data, along with relevant gold price assumptions. This estimate is scheduled to be completed during the first half of 2008.
Geologically, known mineralization at the Gold Bar Complex is hosted by Devonian limestones and limy siltstones and is located along the Battle Mountain-Eureka mineral belt. Compilation of historic data is ongoing and has led to new interpretations in certain areas. Geochemical data from soil sampling reveal linear features trending to the NE that parallel a geologic structure near the historically mined Gold Pick and Gold Canyon open pits. From the early 1980’s through approximately 1994, the Gold Bar
district produced slightly less than 500,000 oz gold for independent third parties from five Carlin-type gold deposits (Gold Bar, Gold Stone, Gold Pick, Gold Ridge, and Gold Canyon.)
Mineral interests included in the Gold Bar Complex are set forth in the following table:
Tone properties are generally subject to certain royalty and back-in rights. Please see the “Other United States Properties” section below for further information.
Limo Property
The Limo Property was acquired with Nevada Pacific and is located in east-central Nevada, along the eastern portion of Butte Valley and along the western edge of the Cherry Creek Range. The property is within White Pine County and about 40 miles northwest of Ely, the county seat. It is located at the southern end of the Carlin Trend.
The project area lies between the historic Cherry Creek Mining District to the northeast and the deeply buried Butte Valley copper-molybdenum porphyry deposit to the southwest. The northeast-trending Black Metals fault system stretches between the two areas, and controls mineralization along its 15 mile length. Access is gained from US Highway 93 via the town of Cherry Creek and from US 50 via the Thirty Mile gravel road. Except for periods of heavy snowfall or excessive mud, the property is accessible most of the year
When we acquired it, the Limo Property was a large, 30 sq. mile property with historic production of approximately 93,000 ounces of gold. With additional claim staking by us in 2007, the property position now totals approximately 41 sq. miles. We consider this property to be highly prospective. Gold mineralization has been identified in numerous places along the 15 mile length of the property.
The following graphic depicts the Limo Complex:
The 2007 drilling at Limo focused on two areas, Resurrection Ridge and Ticup, and was designed to accomplish three objectives: expand known mineralization and increase grade, test for continuity between the mineralized areas and obtain information for an initial estimate of mineralized material, all of which were accomplished.
We consider the Limo Property to be a high priority and plan additional exploration drilling and other work in 2008. Exploration drilling in 2007 totaled approximately 18,860 ft. in 36 drill holes. Thirteen core and 23 reverse circulation holes were completed. In addition, surface soil geochemical sampling was completed on selected areas and geologic mapping and surface rock chip sampling were also accomplished.
Of the 2007 drilling, 31 holes were drilled on Resurrection Ridge and 5 on the Ticup prospect. Historic holes drilled on the entire property total 847. A large portion of the historic holes were concentrated on Resurrection Ridge and on the Golden Butte and North Butte resources areas.
The 2007 work continues to expand the known mineralization and has begun to outline what the Company believes is a potential higher grade zone at Resurrection Ridge.
The best results on Resurrection Ridge were:
Hole 23 is located 325 ft. southwest of hole L-10 (containing 0.126 opt gold over 21 ft) 500 ft. southwest of hole RR04-07 (containing 0.249 opt gold over 60 ft.)
Exploration in the North Butte zone, northwest of Resurrection Ridge, was designed to better define the grade distribution of the mineralization in order to develop an initial resource estimate. Drilling returned long intercepts of lower grade mineralization. The most significant results for this area were:
Exploration also tested a possible connection between the mineralization at Resurrection Ridge and the mineralization at North Butte. Based on the drill results, we believe that these are two separate zones.
Our exploration work suggests that the higher grade gold mineralization discovered at Resurrection Ridge has the potential to exist along a trend six miles to the northeast toward Ticup and three miles to the southwest, into an area known as Cadillac Valley. Results for the five holes drilled at Ticup in 2007 returned a best intercept of 0.020 opt gold over 4 ft. Despite being lower- grade, these early results help support our model, as the mineralization found at Ticup is similar to that at North Butte. With the increased level of knowledge obtained from the 2007 exploration program, we are hopeful that our 2008 exploration program will expand the higher grade mineralization to the northwest and southwest.
Metallurgical testing and geological modeling are also under way to determine the amount of recoverable gold in preparation for an initial resource estimate at Limo. Past drilling has identified numerous areas of mineralization on the property, however much of the historic data is not compliant with today’s reporting standards for mineralized resource material. We are currently analyzing where further drilling needs to be done in order to complete future resource estimate updates. An initial resource estimate is scheduled to be completed during the first half of 2008.
Mining by third parties at the Golden Butte pit within the Limo Complex produced approximately 91,000 ounces of gold from 1987-1989. Subsequent exploration has resulted in the discovery of the North Butte resource and a zone of higher grade structures at nearby Resurrection Ridge. Gold occurrences along the claim block have resulted in the discovery of several resource areas.
The mineral interests controlled by us in the Limo property consist of approximately 1,330 contiguous claims. The land package extends about 15 miles and covers much of the western side of the southern Cherry Creek Range.
Mineral interests included in the Limo property are set forth in the following table:
The Limo Property was previously subject to a joint venture between Nevada Pacific and Newmont Gold Company (“Newmont”), and in March 2003, Nevada Pacific acquired the interest of Newmont in return for a net smelter returns royalty granted to Newmont on a sliding scale of 1.5% to 2.5% on all production from the property and from any claim acquired by Nevada Pacific within one mile of the property, with an advance payment to Newmont of $1.0 million to be made at the commencement of commercial production and credited against future royalty payments. Newmont has assigned this royalty interest to Franco-Nevada Corporation.
Battle Mountain Complex
In conjunction with the Acquisitions in 2007, we acquired various property interests which have been grouped under the designation “Battle Mountain Complex.” The Battle Mountain Complex is generally located within Humboldt and Lander Counties in the valleys and on the flanks of the mountains surrounding Battle Mountain on the Cortez Trend. Battle Mountain, Nevada, located off Interstate 80, is the closest town.
The following graphic depicts the Battle Mountain Complex:
In 2007 we evaluated the Slaven and Hits properties with a total of 2,075 ft. of drilling in two holes drilled at Slaven and a single partial hole at Hits. Additional exploration drilling may be planned in 2008 for the Valmy and Hits projects, as well as other targets in the Battle Mountain Complex.
The general exploration model for the Battle Mountain Complex is structurally controlled, Carlin-style mineralization, in structurally-controlled, intrusive-related, quartz-adularia-sericite, low-sulfidation deposits and/or skarn mineralization similar to the nearby Fortitude and Nike/Converse deposits.
The mineral interests included in the Battle Mountain Complex are set forth in the following table:
Tone properties are generally subject to certain royalty and back in rights. Please see the “Other United States Properties” section below for further information.
Other United States Properties
Through the Acquisitions completed during 2007, we acquired a number of mineral properties in Nevada and Utah, some of which are subject to option agreements as discussed further below. With the focus by us on high priority targets as discussed above, little exploration work was completed on other properties not subject to agreements with third parties. Mineral interests included in Other Properties are set forth in the following table:
The mineral properties included in the acquisition of Tone are generally subject to 1% net smelter return royalty interest in favor of KM Exploration Ltd, a Nevada limited liability company, and certain of the properties are subject to back-in rights in favor of Teck Cominco American Incorporated (“Teck”) pursuant to a 2004 Financing and Acquisition Agreement. Teck generally has the right to acquire a 50% joint venture interest in certain properties by spending approximately $2.84 million on each property after Tone has first spent an aggregate of $0.94 million on each property or up to 70% joint venture interest upon other elections by Teck and performance of other obligations. Tone properties subject to the Teck agreement include Roberts Creek, Kobeh, Gold Bar North, South Keystone and Big Antelope Springs. Red Ridge, Fish Creek and Kent Springs have been excluded under the Teck agreement. However, Teck has certain first rights if the Company determines to sell the Red Ridge property. Through December 31, 2007, we had not reached the initial required expenditure on any property subject to the Teck agreement and, as stated above, that agreement is limited to earn-in rights to a maximum of two of the mineral properties
In 2004, White Knight entered into an option agreement on the New Pass and Squaw Creek properties with Consolidated Odyssey Exploration Inc. (“Odyssey”) whereby Odyssey may earn an initial 50% interest in each property. Terms included cash payments to White Knight of $500,000 and 500,000 of its common shares per property (which have been paid) as well as $2,000,000 in exploration expenditures per property over a four-year period. Odyssey may earn an additional 10% interest in each property by financing the completion of a feasibility study. Subsequently, Odyssey assigned all its rights under the option agreement to Bonaventure Enterprises Inc., a Canadian corporation (“Bonaventure.”) During the earn-in period, Bonaventure is responsible for all property holding costs.
Mexican Properties
We acquired property in Mexico, including the Magistral Mine, with the acquisition of Nevada Pacific in 2007. The Magistral Mine, located in Sinaloa State, produced approximately 70,000 ounces of gold from 2002-2004 before it was shut down due to higher than anticipated operating costs and a lack of working capital when gold was approximately $400 per ounce. In late 2006, the Magistral mine was placed on care and maintenance basis.
The Magistral Mine consists of 38 sq. miles (61 sq. km) of mineral concessions located in the Sinaloa state, of northwestern Mexico in Mocorito Municipality. The project is located approximately 100 kilometers by air northwest of the Sinaloa state capital city of Culiacán in the western foothills of the Sierra Madre Occidental mountain range. The project area is located approximately 22 kilometers northeast from the village of Mocorito, approximately 40 kilometers northeast from the town of Guamuchil, and approximately 150 kilometers southeast from the city of Los Mochis. It is a former producing open pit mining operation, with heap leach processing facilities, that until July 2005, was operating at a production rate of 900,000 ore tonnes per year. Past production has primarily come from the San Rafael and Samaniego Hill deposits, with the San Rafael deposit being completely mined out. Potential future production could come from the three areas of mineralized material, Samaniego Hill, Sagrado Corazón, and Lupita, as well as from extension of the La Prieta high grade zones encountered in historic mining. There are additional exploration targets in the area, some of which are planned to be tested in 2008.
In addition to the Magistral Mine complex, we acquired exploration concessions consisting of approximately 1,341 sq. miles (2,158 sq. km) located in the Mexican states of Sinaloa, Nayarit and Durango. In the aggregate, we control approximately 1,379 sq. miles (2,219 sq. km) of mineral concessions in Mexico.
We own our interest in the Magistral Mine through Nevada Pacific’s ownership of Pangea Resources Inc. which in turn holds 100 percent ownership of Minera Pangea S.A. de C.V. (“Minera Pangea”). Minera Pangea holds seven mining concessions and has option to an additional three concessions. The titles are granted under Mexican mining law and are issued by Secretaria de Economía, Coordinación General de Minera, Dirección General de Minas (Dirección de Minas).
We intend to initiate our first exploration program at the Magistral Mine in early 2008. The focus of this program will be to explore for possible extensions of the La Prieta high-grade vein observed in historic mining and to identify other similar veins at the property. Numerous vein structures have been identified on our concessions immediately surrounding the mine site. Our total property position in the Magistral area is approximately 615 sq. miles (990 sq. km), providing an excellent opportunity to discover additional vein-style mineralization Holding costs associated with all of the Mexican properties are approximately $1.6 million per year.
The following map depicts the location of the Magistral District and the surrounding concessions:
In 2005, Nevada Pacific commenced a limited exploration and drilling program focused on targets in the immediate area of Magistral with drilling of 10 holes totaling 997 m at Lupita, and seven holes totaling 778 m at Sagrado Corazón. In addition, the geophysical program demonstrated the high grade mineralization found at the La Prieta vein does have an anomalous response to Induced Polarization techniques. Other areas included in the survey in close proximity to La Prieta also show a similar anomalous response. The 2008 planned exploration program will follow up on this potential at La Prieta.
Geology and Other Information. Mineralization in the Magistral area consists of silicified structural zones occurring within sheared, broken and propylitically altered volcanic rocks. The Samaniego Hill structural trend consists of a complex set of major and minor structural zones, with a general northwest strike and a moderate dip to the southwest.
More recent mining activities began when Pangea started exploring the project in early 1995, initially for Mogul Mining NL and subsequently for Santa Cruz Gold Inc. From mid-1995 to early 1997, extensive drilling was conducted by Pangea/Santa Cruz Gold on the San Rafael and Samaniego Hill deposit areas, as well as locally extensive drilling on the Sagrado Corazón-Central-Lupita deposit area. In 1998, Santa Cruz conducted a limited amount of additional drilling for metallurgical samples, reverse circulation hole verification, in-fill purposes and condemnation of potential surface facility locations. In 1999, after a merger with Santa Cruz Gold, Queenstake conducted a further limited drilling program to
step-out/in-fill drill in the Samaniego Hill deposit and to obtain pit-slope geotechnical samples from both the San Rafael and Samaniego Hill deposits. Queenstake conducted a drilling campaign from late 2001 to early 2002 in the La Prieta Zone of the Samaniego Hill deposit to delineate extensions of the high grade La Prieta zone along strike and down dip.
The Magistral mine includes desirable assets and infrastructure associated with heap leach operations at the mine site and is currently used as our base for exploration. Infrastructure at Magistral includes offices and process buildings, as well as a heavy equipment maintenance shop and warehouse. A laboratory has the capacity for fire assays along with atomic absorption and includes a standard metallurgical testing facility. Telecommunications are provided by a microwave system that provides modern telephone and internet service. The process plant includes a carbon circuit with a capacity of 12 tons of activated carbon. The gold recovery system includes a zinc precipitation circuit. The plant is powered by four 175 kw diesel generators. The heavy fleet of used equipment includes 4 CAT 777B haul trucks, 5 Eucid R-50 trucks, as well as various loaders, excavators, bulldozers and blasthole drills.
Care and Maintenance. In October 2006, the mine was placed on care and maintenance. Mining equipment remains parked but is maintained by a small maintenance staff. The pumping of solutions and operation of other plant equipment will continue on an “as needed” basis to maintain safe pond levels and to ensure the plant equipment can be returned to service when and if a decision to restart the mine is made. Staffing levels have been maintained to the minimum required for these efforts and also to support exploration in the mine area. The mine serves as a base for exploration efforts. Care and maintenance costs associated with Magistral in 2007 totaled approximately $1.1 million, with property and concession payments of approximately $0.3 million for total annual holding costs of Mexican assets of $1.4 million.
Mexico Mining Regulations. Exploration and exploitation of minerals in Mexico may be carried out through Mexican companies incorporated under Mexican law by means of obtaining exploration and exploitation concessions. Exploration concessions are granted by the Mexican government for a period of six years from the date of their recording in the Public Registry of Mining and are not renewable.
Holders of exploration concessions may, prior to the expiration of such exploration concessions, apply for one or more exploitation concessions covering all or part of the area covered by an exploration concession. Failure to do so prior to expiration of the term of the exploration concession will result in termination of the concession. An exploitation concession has a term of 50 years, generally renewable for a further 50 years upon application within five years of the expiration of such concession. Both exploration and exploitation concessions are subject to annual work requirements and payment of annual surface taxes which are assessed and levied on a semi-annual basis. Such concessions may be transferred or assigned by their holders, but such transfers or assignments must be registered in order to be valid against third parties.
The holder of a concession must pay semi-annual duties in January and July of each year. Concessionaires for both exploration and exploitation must perform work, each year, that must begin within ninety days of the concession being granted. Concessionaires must file each May proof of the work performed. Non-compliance with these requirements is cause for cancellation of the corresponding concessions.
Mexican mining law does not require payment of finder’s fees or royalties to the government, except for a discovery premium in connection with national mineral reserves, concessions and claims or allotments contracted directly from the Council of Mineral Resources. None of the claims held by any subsidiaries of Nevada Pacific are under such a discovery premium regime.
There are no limitations on the total amount of surface covered by exploration or exploitation concessions or on the amount of land held by an individual or company. Excessive accumulation of land is regulated indirectly through the duties levied on the property and the production requirements as outlined above.
Mexico Environmental Law. The Environmental Law in Mexico called the General Law of Ecological Balance and Protection to the Environment (“General Law”), provides for general environmental policies, with specific requirements set forth in regulations called “Ecological Technical Standards.” Responsibility for enforcement of the General Law, the regulations and the Ecological Technical Standards is with the Ministry of Environment, Natural Resources and Fishing, which regulate all environmental matters with the assistance of the National Institute of Ecology and the Procuraduria Federal de Proteccion al Ambiente.
The primary laws and regulations governing environmental protection for mining in Mexico are found in the General Law, the Ecological Technical Standards and also in the air, water and hazardous waste regulations, among others. In order to comply with the environmental regulations, a concessionaire must obtain a series of permits during the exploration stage. Generally, these permits are issued on a timely basis after the completion of an application by a concession holder. We believe the subsidiaries of Nevada Pacific are currently in full compliance with the General Law and its regulations in relation to their mineral property interests.
The costs of projected reclamation of the Magistral mine and complex is currently estimated at approximately $2.7 million. The Company is in the process of reviewing the reclamation cost estimate which might result in an increase or decrease to this estimate. Under Mexican regulations surety bonding of projected reclamation costs is not required. We carry an estimated liability for asset retirement obligation (similar to reclamation) in our financial statements.
ITEM 3.