ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
As of February 12, 2021, we had 277 locations in the United States and Canada. We also operate regional headquarters, sales offices and service facilities in the foregoing countries in support of our equipment rental operations. Our principal executive offices are located in Bonita Springs, Florida.
As of December 31, 2020, we owned approximately 8% of the locations from which we operate our equipment rental business, with the remainder leased. Those leases are typically triple net leases, where Herc is responsible for the ongoing expenses of the property, including real estate taxes, insurance, and maintenance, in addition to paying rent and utilities.
Our rental locations generally are located in industrial or commercial zones. A growing number of locations have highway or major thoroughfare visibility. The typical location includes a customer reception area, an equipment service area and storage facilities for equipment. Most branches have stand-alone maintenance and fueling facilities and showrooms.
Legal proceedings, see Note 17 "Commitments and Contingencies" of our consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Report.
ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES
Not applicable.
Executive Officers of the Registrant
The name, age, position and a description of the business experience of each of our executive officers is provided below. There is no family relationship among the executive officers or between any executive officer and a director.
Lawrence H. Silber. Mr. Silber joined the Company in May 2015. Prior to that, Mr. Silber most recently served as an executive advisor at Court Square Capital Partners, LLP, a private equity firm primarily investing in the business services, healthcare, general industrial and technology and telecommunications sectors, from April 2014 to May 2015. Mr. Silber led Hayward Industries, one of the world’s largest swimming pool equipment manufacturers, as chief operating officer from 2008 to 2012, overseeing a successful transition through the recession and returning the company to solid profitability. From 1978 to 2008, Mr. Silber worked for Ingersoll-Rand plc, a publicly traded manufacturer of industrial products and components, in a number of roles of increasing responsibility. He led major Ingersoll-Rand business groups, including Utility Equipment, Rental and Remarketing and the Equipment and Services businesses. Earlier in his career, he led sales, marketing and operations functions in Ingersoll-Rand’s Power Tool Division and Construction and Mining Group. Mr. Silber served on the board of directors of
HERC HOLDINGS INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Executive Officers of the Registrant (continued)
SMTC Corporation, a mid-size provider of end-to-end electronics manufacturing services, from 2012 to 2015 (and from May 2013 through January 2014 served as its interim president and CEO).
Mark H. Irion. Mr. Irion joined the Company in June 2018. Prior to that, Mr. Irion most recently served as the chief financial officer of Neff Corporation, a publicly traded equipment rental company, for 19 years until its sale in October 2017. Prior to his role with Neff, he was chief financial officer for Markvision Holdings, Inc., a computer component distribution company, from 1994 to 1998 and, before that, he was an audit senior for Deloitte & Touche LLP in the U.S. and New Zealand.
Christian J. Cunningham. Mr. Cunningham joined the Company in September 2014 from DFC Global Corporation where he served as vice president, corporate HR and HR services since June 2013 with global responsibility for all human resource matters for corporate staff. Previously, Mr. Cunningham held the position of vice president, HR, compensation and benefits at Sunoco Inc. and Sunoco Logistics from 2010 to 2013. Prior to Sunoco, Mr. Cunningham served at ARAMARK as vice president, global compensation and strategy from 2008 to 2010; at Scholastic Inc. as vice president, compensation, benefits and HRIS from 2006 to 2007; and at Pep Boys as assistant vice president, human resources from 2005 to 2006. Previously, Mr. Cunningham held director and regional managerial positions in roles with increasing levels of responsibility at Pep Boys from 1995 to 2005 and Tire Service Corporation, Inc. from 1985 to 1995.
Aaron D. Birnbaum. Mr. Birnbaum served the Company and its predecessor business for more than 30 years. Prior to his current role, Mr. Birnbaum has served as the Company’s Senior Vice President from 2017 to 2019 and served as a Regional Vice President from 2012 to 2017. As Senior Vice President, Mr. Birnbaum oversaw the Company's Western, Northwest, North Central and Canada regions as well as its Herc Entertainment Services® and Cinelease® specialty equipment rental units. Mr. Birnbaum also has held leadership responsibilities related to the Company's strategic planning, operational execution and M&A activities.
Tamir Peres. Mr. Peres joined the Company in September 2017 from Sunoco Logistics, a publicly-traded, midstream energy company, where he served as vice president and chief information officer since 2012, leading the Sunoco Logistics Information Technology group. From 2005 to 2012, Mr. Peres held the position of director of corporate information technology at Sunoco, Inc., where he was responsible for all strategic and tactical aspects of technology across the Refining and Supply, Retail Marketing, Chemicals, Logistics and Coke business units. He was previously director of Worldwide Financial Systems for Kulicke & Soffa Industries, Inc., a global manufacturer and supplier of semiconductor equipment, and before that he worked for Ernst & Young, including as an audit senior in its Assurance Services area.
S. Wade Sheek. Mr. Sheek joined the Company in November 2019 from Republic Airways Holdings Inc., a regional airline, where he served as general counsel and secretary from 2018 to 2019 and oversaw the legal, contracting, communications and government relations functions. From 2013 to 2018, he served as deputy general counsel and corporate secretary at Allegion plc, a multi-national manufacturing company, and had responsibility for SEC matters, corporate governance, M&A and strategic initiatives. Prior to that, Mr. Sheek held roles with increasing responsibility with The Home Depot, Inc., UnitedHealth Group Incorporated and Ingersoll-Rand plc.
PART II
ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITY
Common Stock and Registered Holders
Our common stock trades on the New York Stock Exchange ("NYSE") under the symbol "HRI". On February 12, 2021, there were 1,266 registered holders of our common stock. The number of beneficial owners is substantially greater than the number of record holders because a large portion of our common stock is held of record in "street name."
Share Repurchase Program
In March 2014, Hertz Holdings announced a $1.0 billion share repurchase program (the "Share Repurchase Program"), which replaced an earlier program. The Share Repurchase Program permits us, as the successor to Hertz Holdings, to purchase shares through a variety of methods, including in the open market or through privately negotiated transactions, in accordance with applicable securities laws. We are not obligated to make any repurchases at any specific time or in any specific amount. The timing and extent to which we repurchase shares will depend upon, among other things, market conditions, share price, liquidity
HERC HOLDINGS INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES (Continued)
targets, contractual restrictions and other factors. Share repurchases may be commenced or suspended at any time or from time to time, subject to legal and contractual requirements, without prior notice. There were no share repurchases during the year ended December 31, 2020. As of December 31, 2020, the approximate dollar value that remains available for share purchases under the Share Repurchase Program is $395.9 million.
Dividends
We paid no cash dividends on our common stock in 2020, and we do not expect to pay dividends on our common stock for the foreseeable future. The agreements governing our indebtedness restrict our ability to pay dividends. See Item 7, "Management Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources - Dividends," in this Report.
Recent Performance
The following graph compares the cumulative total stockholder return on Herc Holdings common stock from July 1, 2016, the first day of trading for our stock on the NYSE, through December 31, 2020, with the cumulative total returns of the Standard & Poor's Small Cap 600 Index and an industry peer group. The industry peer group is comprised of publicly traded companies participating in the equipment rental industry and other relevant companies of comparable size in the broader industry in which we compete. Our industry peer group is comprised of Aggreko plc, Applied Industrial Tech Inc., Ashstead Group plc, Beacon Roofing Supply, Inc., Fastenal Company, GATX Corp., H&E Equipment Services, KAR Auction Services Inc., McGrath RentCorp, NOW Inc., Pool Corp., Ritchie Bros. Auctioneers Incorporated, Triton International Ltd., Watsco Inc., WillScot Mobile Mini Holdings Corp. and United Rentals, Inc. Mobile Mini, Inc. was previously included in our peer group, and, upon its merger with WillScot Corporation in 2020, the combined company is now included in our peer group.
The graph assumes that $100 was invested on July 1, 2016 over the indicated time periods and assumes reinvestment of all dividends, if any, paid on the securities. We have not paid any cash dividends and, therefore, the cumulative total return calculation for Herc Holdings is based solely upon stock price appreciation. The stock price performance shown on the graph is not necessarily indicative of future price performance.
HERC HOLDINGS INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
The following tables present selected consolidated financial information and are not necessarily indicative of results of future operations. The information presented should be read in conjunction with Item 7, "Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and the consolidated financial statements and related notes thereto included in this Report in Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data," to fully understand factors that may affect the comparability of the information presented below. The selected consolidated financial data in this section is not intended to replace the consolidated financial statements.
(a) Total expenses were impacted by long-lived asset impairments in 2020, 2019 and 2017 of $15.4 million, $5.1 million and $29.7 million, respectively and losses on extinguishment of debt in 2019, 2018 and 2017 of $53.6 million, $5.4 million, and $11.4 million respectively.
(b) Income tax benefit in 2018 and 2017 includes a net benefit of $20.8 million and $207.1 million, respectively, resulting from the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017.
(c) Total equity as of December 31, 2016 was impacted by $2.0 billion of distributions and transfers to THC related to the Spin-Off.
HERC HOLDINGS INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
Management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations ("MD&A") should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes included in Item 8 of this Report, which include additional information about our accounting policies, practices and the transactions underlying our financial results. The preparation of our consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("U.S. GAAP") requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts in our consolidated financial statements and the accompanying notes including receivables allowances, depreciation of rental equipment, the recoverability of long-lived assets, useful lives and impairment of long-lived tangible and intangible assets including goodwill and trade name, pension and postretirement benefits, valuation of stock-based compensation, reserves for litigation and other contingencies, accounting for income taxes and other matters arising during the normal course of business. We apply our best judgment, our knowledge of existing facts and circumstances and our knowledge of actions that we may undertake in the future in determining the estimates that will affect our consolidated financial statements. We evaluate our estimates on an ongoing basis using our historical experience, as well as other factors we believe appropriate under the circumstances, such as current economic conditions, and adjust or revise our estimates as circumstances change. As future events and their effects cannot be determined with precision, actual results may differ from these estimates.
OVERVIEW OF OUR BUSINESS AND OPERATING ENVIRONMENT
We are engaged principally in the business of renting equipment. Ancillary to our principal business of equipment rental, we also sell used rental equipment, sell new equipment and consumables and offer certain services and support to our customers. Our profitability is dependent upon a number of factors including the volume, mix and pricing of rental transactions and the utilization of equipment. Significant changes in the purchase price or residual values of equipment or interest rates can have a significant effect on our profitability depending on our ability to adjust pricing for these changes. Our business requires significant expenditures for equipment, and consequently we require substantial liquidity to finance such expenditures. See "Liquidity and Capital Resources" below.
Our revenues are primarily derived from rental and related charges and consist of:
•Equipment rental (includes all revenue associated with the rental of equipment including ancillary revenue from delivery, rental protection programs and fueling charges);
•Sales of rental equipment and sales of new equipment, parts and supplies; and
•Service and other revenue (primarily relating to training and labor provided to customers).
Our expenses primarily consist of:
•Direct operating expenses (primarily wages and related benefits, facility costs and other costs relating to the operation and rental of rental equipment, such as delivery, maintenance and fuel costs);
•Cost of sales of rental equipment, new equipment, parts and supplies;
•Depreciation expense relating to rental equipment;
•Selling, general and administrative expenses; and
•Interest expense.
HERC HOLDINGS INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued)
2020 Overview
Our results for 2020 reflect the challenges our business faced with the COVID-19 pandemic, and while our business was deemed essential and was allowed to remain open, many industries in which our customers operate were required to temporarily close their facilities or delay or cancel projects and events. Our customer and fleet diversification strategy helped to offset the reduction in volume we experienced in certain parts of the business, with the stability of our national accounts business helping to offset the declines in local customer revenue. We were also able to maintain positive pricing during 2020, increasing 0.1%, despite the decline in volume resulting from the COVID-19 related business shutdowns. As a result, equipment rental revenues declined 9.3% to $1.54 billion in 2020 compared to $1.70 billion in 2019.
Despite this challenging time, we continued our focus on quality of earnings through the execution of company-wide initiatives to increase our operating margins and profitability. We reduced our capital spending in the short-term and, where possible, reduced operating expenses while ensuring ongoing safe and reliable operations. Many cost saving initiatives that were implemented in 2019 also contributed to a reduction in operating expenses during 2020 resulting in an increase in net income to $73.7 million from $47.5 million in 2019.
Additionally, during 2020, we completed our first multi-location acquisition since we became an independent, publicly traded company in 2016. This acquisition supports our long-term strategy to achieve greater density and scale in select urban markets across North America to better serve both our local and national customers.
Impacts of COVID-19
In December 2019, a novel strain of coronavirus (COVID-19) was identified in China and has since spread globally. In March 2020, the World Health Organization characterized COVID-19 as a pandemic. Efforts to contain the spread of COVID-19 intensified in March 2020 when most states in the United States and provinces in Canada enacted shelter in place orders, declared states of emergency, took steps to restrict travel, enacted temporary closures of non-essential businesses and took other restrictive measures in response to the COVID-19 pandemic. These business shutdowns and restrictions have had significant negative economic impacts and, as discussed above, we have experienced year-over-year declines in volume of fleet on rent which has resulted in lower equipment rental revenue.
We have begun to see economic recovery within our industry and our business throughout the year since the second quarter of 2020 and we expect to position ourselves for growth in 2021 by opening greenfield locations and adding select fleet in high growth regions. Despite the recovery we are seeing, the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic continues to evolve and the recovery could be slowed or reversed by a number of factors, including a widespread resurgence in COVID-19 infections, whether due to the spread of any variants of the virus or otherwise, and the rate in which state and local governments are re-opening businesses or, in certain jurisdictions, reversing re-opening decisions. Therefore, we cannot predict the extent to which our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows will ultimately be impacted.
We remain focused on the safety and well-being of our employees, customers and communities as we maintain a high-level of service to our customers. We continue to communicate frequently throughout the organization to reinforce our health and safety guidelines, based on the Center for Disease Control recommendations. Within our operations, a number of adjustments have been made to minimize physical interactions. These include utilizing our information technology platforms to accommodate as many employees as possible to work remotely from their homes. At the operations level, we have implemented new policies to expand the washing of equipment and sanitization of high-touch areas such as dashboards and steering wheels. We have reduced access to our customer showrooms and have implemented curb-side pick-up and drop-off of equipment at our branches. We are supplying personal protective equipment for those employees who interact with customers and are employing remediation companies to assist in cleaning branches where necessary.
HERC HOLDINGS INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued)
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
NM - Not Meaningful
Year Ended December 31, 2020 Compared with Year Ended December 31, 2019
Equipment rental revenue decreased $158.1 million, or 9.3%, during the year ended December 31, 2020 when compared with 2019. The decrease was primarily attributable to lower volume of equipment on rent (including delivery and other ancillary revenues) primarily related to the ongoing economic impacts of COVID-19. Re-rent revenues decreased $22.2 million as we continue to strategically reduce re-rent volume.
Sales of rental equipment decreased $44.3 million, or 18.2%, during the year ended December 31, 2020 when compared with 2019. At the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic in early 2020, our primary focus was to manage fleet size and mix given the anticipated declines in demand due to the uncertainty of the economic impact resulting from COVID-19 business shutdowns. Rental equipment capital expenditures throughout the industry were cut significantly from earlier expectations for the year, impacting used equipment prices and our planned sales of older fleet. These actions resulted in a decline in the volume of sales of rental equipment for the majority of the year. The cost of sales of rental equipment as a percentage of the related revenue was 102.6% during 2020 compared to 100.2% in the prior-year period. The decrease in margin on sale of rental equipment during 2020 was primarily due to overall reductions in the pricing of used rental equipment in the market.
Direct operating expenses decreased $81.9 million, or 10.6%, during the year ended December 31, 2020 when compared with 2019 primarily due to the following:
•Fleet and related expenses decreased $58.1 million as a result of (i) a decrease in delivery and freight expenses of $22.2 million due to the decrease in deliveries as a result of reduced volume of equipment on rent and better management of transportation costs; (ii) a decrease in re-rent expense of $21.0 million due to the decrease in re-rent revenue; (iii) a decrease in maintenance expense of $14.3 million as more rental equipment was less utilized during 2020 and more maintenance was performed internally; and (iv) a decrease in fuel expense of $5.5 million due to the decrease in volume of equipment on rent and a decrease in the price of fuel.
HERC HOLDINGS INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued)
•Personnel-related expenses decreased $23.6 million primarily due to a reduction in wages related to furloughs implemented during the second quarter of 2020 and our initiative to limit overtime expense in response to reduced transaction volume due to COVID-19.
Selling, general and administrative expenses decreased $37.4 million, or 12.7%, during the year ended December 31, 2020 compared with 2019. The decline was primarily due to decreases in selling expense of $10.4 million, travel expense of $8.4 million, professional fees of $2.7 million and commissions and incentives of $2.2 million due to cost containment measures related to the reduced transaction volume associated with COVID-19 business shutdowns. Additionally, credit and collections expense decreased $7.7 million during 2020 due to continued improvements in collections.
Restructuring expense was $0.7 million during 2020 related to personnel reductions in the second quarter and additional costs related to a prior restructuring plan. Restructuring expense was $7.7 million during 2019 as a result of our plan of restructuring in Canada which included right-of-use assets and related leasehold improvement impairment of $5.5 million and severance charges of $2.2 million.
Impairment expense was $15.4 million during 2020 and consisted of $6.3 million related to the partial impairment of a long-term receivable related to the sale of our former joint venture, $4.8 million related to certain rental equipment, $1.7 million related to an ROU asset impairment charge for two locations closed in 2019 as a result of reduced sublease assumptions due to economic conditions surrounding those locations, $1.5 million related to certain assets that were sold during 2020 and $1.1 million related to a financial reporting and consolidation system that was replaced during the fourth quarter of 2020.
Interest expense, net decreased $80.9 million, or 46.6%, during 2020 when compared with the same period in 2019. Interest expense was higher in the prior year primarily due to a loss on extinguishment of debt of $53.6 million included in 2019 related to the extinguishment of the senior secured second priority notes due 2022 and 2024. Interest expense was also lower during 2020 due to lower interest rates on the 2027 Notes and lower average outstanding balances and interest rates on the ABL Credit Facility as compared to the same period in 2019.
Income tax provision was $20.4 million during 2020 when compared with $16.1 million for the same period in 2019. The provision during 2020 was primarily driven by the level of pre-tax income, non-deductible expenses, stock-based compensation, valuation allowances recorded on losses generated by certain foreign loss jurisdictions and income tax audit adjustments.
LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES
Our primary liquidity needs include the payment of operating expenses, purchases of rental equipment to be used in our operations and servicing of debt. Our primary sources of funding are operating cash flows, cash received from the disposal of equipment and borrowings under our debt arrangements. As of December 31, 2020, we had approximately $1.7 billion of total nominal indebtedness outstanding. A substantial portion of our liquidity needs arise from debt service on our indebtedness and from the funding of our costs of operations and capital expenditures.
Our liquidity as of December 31, 2020 consisted of cash and cash equivalents of $33.0 million and unused commitments of $1.4 billion under our ABL Credit Facility. See "Borrowing Capacity and Availability" below for further discussion. Our practice is to maintain sufficient liquidity through cash from operations, our ABL Credit Facility and our AR Facility to mitigate the impacts of any adverse financial market conditions on our operations. Based on the impacts of COVID-19, we reduced our net rental equipment expenditures in 2020 significantly to effectively manage our fleet and liquidity. Notwithstanding the COVID-19 pandemic, we believe that cash generated from operations and cash received from the disposal of equipment, together with amounts available under the ABL Credit Facility and the AR Facility or other financing arrangements will be sufficient to meet working capital requirements and anticipated reduced capital expenditures, and other strategic uses of cash, if any, and debt payments, if any, over the next twelve months.
Cash Flows
Significant factors driving our liquidity position include cash flows generated from operating activities and capital expenditures. Historically, we have generated and expect to continue to generate positive cash flow from operations. Our ability to fund our capital needs will be affected by our ongoing ability to generate cash from operations and access to capital markets.
HERC HOLDINGS INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued)
The following table summarizes the change in cash and cash equivalents for the periods shown (in millions):
Year Ended December 31, 2020 Compared with Year Ended December 31, 2019
Operating Activities
During December 31, 2020, we generated $24.7 million less cash from operating activities compared with the same period in 2019. The decrease was primarily related to timing of payments on accounts payable and other liabilities, partially offset by improved collections on accounts receivable during December 31, 2020 as compared to the same period in 2019.
Investing Activities
Cash used in investing activities decreased $256.1 million during the 2020 when compared with the prior-year period. Our primary use of cash in investing activities is for the acquisition of rental equipment and non-rental capital expenditures, which we reduced during 2020 due to the impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic. Generally, we rotate our equipment and manage our fleet of rental equipment in line with customer demand and continue to invest in our information technology, service vehicles and facilities. Changes in our net capital expenditures are described in more detail in the "Capital Expenditures" section below.
Financing Activities
Cash used in financing activities increased $238.9 million during 2020 when compared with the prior-year period. Cash used in financing activities during 2020 primarily represents our changes in debt, which included net repayments of $396.7 million on our revolving lines of credit and securitization during 2020. Net repayments in the prior year period were $434.8 million, which were offset by net proceeds from the refinancing of our long-term debt of $335.5 million.
In order to reduce future cash interest payments, as well as future amounts due at maturity or upon redemption, we may from time to time repurchase our debt, including our notes, bonds, loans or other indebtedness, in privately negotiated, open market or other transactions and upon such terms and at such prices as we may determine. We will evaluate any such transactions in light of then-existing market conditions, taking into account our current liquidity and prospects for future access to capital. The repurchases may be material and could relate to a substantial proportion of a particular class or series, which could reduce the trading liquidity of such class or series.
HERC HOLDINGS INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued)
Capital Expenditures
Our capital expenditures relate largely to purchases of rental equipment, with the remaining portion representing purchases of property, equipment and information technology. The table below sets forth the capital expenditures related to our rental equipment and related disposals for the periods noted (in millions).
Net capital expenditures for rental equipment decreased $262.6 million during the year ended December 31, 2020 compared to 2019. During 2020, we reduced rental equipment expenditures and disposals to effectively manage our fleet and liquidity in light of the uncertainty surrounding the COVID-19 pandemic.
In 2021, we expect our net rental equipment capital expenditures to be in the range of $400 million to $450 million.
Borrowing Capacity and Availability
Our ABL Credit Facility and AR Facility (together, the "Facilities") provide our borrowing capacity and availability. Creditors under the Facilities have a claim on specific pools of assets as collateral as identified in each credit agreement. Our ability to borrow under the Facilities is a function of, among other things, the value of the assets in the relevant collateral pool. We refer to the amount of debt we can borrow given a certain pool of assets as the "Borrowing Base."
In connection with the AR Facility, we sell accounts receivable on an ongoing basis to a wholly-owned special-purpose entity (the "SPE"). The accounts receivable and other assets of the SPE are encumbered in favor of the lenders under our AR Facility. The SPE assets are owned by the SPE and are not available to settle our obligations or any of our other subsidiaries. Substantially all of the remaining assets of Herc and certain of its U.S. and Canadian subsidiaries are encumbered in favor of our lenders under our ABL Credit Facility. None of such assets are available to satisfy the claims of our general creditors. See Note 11, "Debt" included in Part II, Item 8 "Financial Statements" of this Report for more information.
With respect to the Facilities, we refer to "Remaining Capacity" as the maximum principal amount of debt permitted to be outstanding under the Facilities (i.e., the amount of debt we could borrow assuming we possessed sufficient assets as collateral) less the principal amount of debt then-outstanding under the Facility. We refer to "Availability Under Borrowing Base Limitation" as the lower of Remaining Capacity or the Borrowing Base less the principal amount of debt then-outstanding under the Facility (i.e., the amount of debt we could borrow given the collateral we possess at such time).
As of December 31, 2020, the following was available to us (in millions):
At December 31, 2020, our borrowing base was capped at $175.0 million by the aggregate commitments under the AR Facility.
As of December 31, 2020, $23.4 million of standby letters of credit were issued and outstanding under the ABL Credit Facility, none of which had been drawn upon. The ABL Credit Facility had $226.6 million available under the letter of credit facility sublimit, subject to borrowing base restrictions.
HERC HOLDINGS INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued)
Covenants
Our ABL Credit Facility, our AR Facility and our 2027 Notes contain a number of covenants that, among other things, limit or restrict our ability to dispose of assets, incur additional indebtedness, incur guarantee obligations, prepay certain indebtedness, make certain restricted payments (including paying dividends, redeeming stock or making other distributions), create liens, make investments, make acquisitions, engage in mergers, fundamentally change the nature of our business, make capital expenditures, or engage in certain transactions with certain affiliates.
Under the terms of our ABL Credit Facility, our AR Facility and our 2027 Notes, we are not subject to ongoing financial maintenance covenants; however, under the ABL Credit Facility, failure to maintain certain levels of liquidity will subject us to a contractually specified fixed charge coverage ratio of not less than 1:1 for the four quarters most recently ended. As of December 31, 2020, the appropriate levels of liquidity have been maintained, therefore this financial maintenance covenant is not applicable.
For further information on the terms of our 2027 Notes, ABL Credit Facility and AR Facility see Note 11, "Debt" included in Part II, Item 8 "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" of this Report. For a discussion of the risks associated with our significant indebtedness, see Part I, Item 1A "Risk Factors" contained in this Report.
Dividends
Our payment of dividends on our common stock will be determined by our Board of Directors in its sole discretion and will depend on our business conditions, financial condition, earnings, liquidity and capital requirements, contractual restrictions and other factors. The amounts available to pay cash dividends are restricted by our debt agreements. As of the date of this Report, we have no plans to pay dividends on our common stock.
CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS
The following table details the contractual cash obligations for debt and related interest payable, finance and operating leases, and other purchase obligations as of December 31, 2020 (in millions):
(a) Estimated interest payments have been calculated based on the applicable interest rates as of December 31, 2020.
(b) Includes obligations under financing agreements primarily for the lease of 44 properties. See Note 12, "Financing Obligations" to the notes to our consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Report.
(c) Includes obligations under lease agreements primarily for service vehicles. See Note 9, "Leases" to the notes to our consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Report.
(d) Includes obligations under lease agreements for real estate and computer equipment. Such obligations are reflected to the extent of their minimum non-cancelable terms. See Note 9, "Leases" to the notes to our consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Report.
(e) Purchase obligations represent agreements to purchase goods or services that are legally binding on us and that specify all significant terms, including fixed or minimum quantities; fixed, minimum or variable price provisions; and the approximate timing of the transaction. Only the minimum non-cancelable portion of purchase agreements and related cancellation penalties are included as obligations. In the case of contracts that state minimum quantities of goods or services, amounts reflect only the stipulated minimums; all other contracts reflect estimated amounts.
The table excludes our pension and other postretirement benefit obligations. See Note 13, "Employee Retirement Benefits" to the notes to our consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Report.
HERC HOLDINGS INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued)
OFF-BALANCE SHEET COMMITMENTS AND ARRANGEMENTS
As of December 31, 2020 and 2019, the following guarantees (including indemnification commitments) were issued and outstanding:
Indemnification Obligations
In the ordinary course of business, we execute contracts involving indemnification obligations customary in the relevant industry and indemnifications related to a specific transaction such as the sale of a business. These indemnification obligations might include claims relating to the following: environmental matters; condition of property; intellectual property rights; governmental regulations and employment-related matters; customer, supplier and other commercial contractual relationships; and financial or other matters. Performance under these indemnification obligations would generally be triggered by a breach of terms of the contract or by a third-party claim. We regularly evaluate the probability of having to incur costs associated with these indemnification obligations and accrue for expected losses that are probable and estimable. Also see Note 21, "Arrangements with New Hertz" to the notes to our consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Report. For discussion of the risks associated with indemnification obligations in the context of divestitures see Part I, Item 1A "Risk Factors-Other Operational Risks" contained in this Report.
Contingencies, Environmental Matters and Guarantee
The information concerning the ongoing securities litigation and governmental investigation contained in Part I, Item 3