ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
Executive Offices and Registered Agent
Our executive and head office is located at 600, 17th Street, Suite 2800 South, Denver, CO. We pay “Your Office USA” a minimum of US$180.00 per month for the provision of the office and related services. We feel that the arrangement will be suitable for the next 12 months. We attach a copy of the agreement to this annual report on Form 10-K.
Our registered office for service in the State of Nevada is located at Pacific Stock Transfer Company 500 E. Warm Springs Road, Suite 240, Las Vegas NV 89119 (702) 361-3033.
Mineral Properties
Pinetree-Reno Creek - Wyoming
The Lease descriptions held by our joint venture are as follows:
Wyoming State Leases
Lease No.
Property District Acreage Section Township Range Due Date Lessee
0-40864 Pinetree-Reno Creek
42N
73W
June 2, Miller
0-40865 Pinetree-Reno Creek
42N
74W
June 2, Miller
0-40866 Pinetree-Reno Creek
43N
74W
June 2, Miller
0-40866 Pinetree-Reno Creek
43N
74W
June 2, Miller
0-40867 Pinetree-Reno Creek
44N
75W
June 2, Miller
Private Leases
Name Subdivision Section Township Range Acreage
Bin SE 43N
74W
Bin NE 43N
74W
Reichmuth NW,S2
43N
73W
Our plan of operation is to carry out the agreement that we entered into, effective August 20, 2007, with Strathmore Resources (US) Ltd. That agreement provides for an option for our company to earn-up to a 60% interest in the Pinetree-Reno Creek Property located in Campbell County, Wyoming.
In January 2008, the original agreement was amended to remove Strathmore’s right to retain or earn back the 11% interest in the properties.
Pursuant to the March 6, 2008 LLC agreement with Strathmore dated effective January 3, 2008, Strathmore has no right to retain or earn back a percentage of our interest in the Pinetree-Reno Creek property, as it had in the agreements that have been replaced by the LLC agreement.
Previous agreements between the parties relating to the exploration of the property, the development of the property and any related activities have been replaced by the LLC agreement.
Pursuant to the agreement, if we incur $12,375,000 in expenditures, we will earn a 22.5% interest in the property and at that point will become a joint venture partner with Strathmore. The remaining 37.5% interest will be earned upon incurring the balance of $20,625,000 in required expenditures. The subsequent amendment in January, 2008 resulted in the deletion of Strathmore’s right to earn back an 11% interest in the property for $14,000,000 within 90 days of the delivery of a feasibility report. Strathmore will be the operator until we earn a 60% interest in the property.
Maps of the Pinetree-Reno Creek Property are included below under the section entitled “Location and Description of the Pinetree-Reno Creek Property” beginning on page 12. There is no assurance that any commercially viable uranium or any other type of mineral deposits exist on the any of our properties. We acquired the option to earn an interest in the Pinetree-Reno Creek Property at an imputed cost of $8,160,000 represented by $300,000 and the issuance of 130,435 common shares (6,000,000 shares prior to share consolidation 46:1) with a fair market value of $7,860,000.
Mineral property exploration is typically conducted in phases. Each subsequent phase of exploration work is recommended by a geologist based on the results from the most recent phase of exploration. In 2008, we will commence the initial phase of exploration on our property. Once we complete each phase of exploration, we will make a decision as to whether or not we proceed with each successive phase based upon the analysis of the results of that program. Our board of directors will make these decisions based upon the recommendations of the independent geologist who oversees the program and records the results.
Our plan of operations over the next 12 months involves carrying out the terms of the LLC agreement with Strathmore. We intend to acquire, integrate and analyze existing drill data for the joint venture property and add fill-in properties to the joint venture lands in order to increase our resource base.
We implemented a program of exploration in May 2008. The program involves data analysis, environmental studies and permitting work.
Planned work for 2009 and 2010 includes:
drilling hydrologic test wells from Wyoming’s State Engineer’s Office and State Department of Environmental Quality, Land Quality Division; and
continue environmental and related work needed for State and Federal permits/licenses.
Due to the uncertainty of our ability to meet our current operating and capital expenses, on our audited financial statements for the year ended February 28, 2009 our independent auditors included an explanatory paragraph regarding concerns about our ability to continue as a going concern. Our financial statements contain additional note disclosures describing the circumstances that lead to this disclosure by our independent auditors.
Effective August 20, 2007 we entered into an option and LLC agreement with Strathmore Resources (US) Ltd. Pursuant to the agreement, we have an option to earn-in a 60% interest in Strathmore’s Pinetree-Reno Creek uranium properties located in Campbell County, Wyoming. The property is located in the central Powder River Basin, within the Pumpkin Buttes Uranium District, and encompasses approximately 16,000 acres. Under the terms of the agreement, we have issued 130,435 shares (post-shares consolidation) of common stock of our company to Strathmore and have reimbursed Strathmore 100% of its expenditures incurred by Strathmore for the Property, in the amount of $300,000. We are required to reimburse funds spent by Strathmore to acquire additional uranium leases (which will then form part of the property); and incur a total of $33,000,000 in expenditures on the Property over a six year period, of which $1,500,000 must be incurred in the first year (incurred), $1,500,000 in the second year, $2,000,000 in the third year and $28,000,000 before the end of the sixth year.
Following our entry into the agreement with Strathmore Resources (US) Ltd., we moved our principal executive offices to Denver, Colorado because we wanted to have an office nearer our Wyoming exploration project.
The agreement provides that we will earn a 22.5% interest in the Pinetree-Reno Creek Property once we have incurred $12,375,000 of the required $33,000,000 expenditures. The remaining 37.5% interest will be earned upon incurring the balance of $20,625,000 in required expenditures. Strathmore will be the operator until we earn the 60% interest in the property.
Over the next 12 months we intend to continue to integrate and analyze existing drill data Geologic Data related to our Reno Creek prospect that we acquired on October 10, 2007 through a Purchase Agreement with Power Resources, Inc. in exchange for consideration of $950,000.
Even if we complete all of the steps under the agreement and we are successful in finding economically recoverable uranium, we may not be able to pay our expenses or achieve profitable operations.
The Pinetree-Reno Creek Property is comprised of 123 unpatented mining claims. Many of the claims on the property are on split-title lands. This means that the surface of the land is owned by private landowners and the underlying minerals are owned by the federal government and administered by the U.S. Department of Interior’s Bureau of Land Management (BLM). The remainder of the property is comprised of claims held through state and private leases.
Pursuant to the agreement, if we incur $12,375,000 in expenditures, we will earn a 22.5% interest in the property and at that point will become a joint venture partner with Strathmore. Until we have earned our 60% interest in the property, Strathmore will be the operator. We had no pre-existing affiliation with Strathmore Resources.
On March 6, 2008, we entered into a Limited Liability Company Operating Agreement with Strathmore Resources (US) Ltd. dated effective January 3, 2008 and formed a limited liability company under the Delaware Limited Liability Company Act, 6 Del. C. 18-101, et seq. to own and conduct the operations on the Property. The LLC agreement replaces the August 20, 2007 and December 31, 2007 agreements.
Our company had no pre-existing affiliation with Strathmore or its affiliates prior to our August 20, 2007 option and LLC agreement with Strathmore.
Our joint venture operator, Strathmore Minerals, is responsible for maintaining/retaining all property held by the JV, including federal mining claims, State land and private leases.
Strathmore, as joint venture operator, maintains all agreements and documents covering property held by the JV. Payments due for federal mining claims and State land are a matter of public record; private lease terms are proprietary.
The claims of our Pine Tee-Reno Creek Property are found in the areas called the West Reno Property, the Pinetree Property and the Four Mile Creek Property. On the West Reno Property, our claims rune from WR-1 to WR- 80, BFR 1 to BFR 38 and SC 1 to SC 45. On the Pinetree Property, our claims run from PT-1 to PT-33, WM1 to WM27. On the Four Mile Creek Property, our claims run from FMC-1 to FMC-112, ANC 1 to ANC 45, SANC 1 to SANC 80, SWD -1 to SWD - 60.
Effective December 31, 2007, we entered into an amendment to our option and LLC agreement with Strathmore Resources (US) Ltd. through which we have the option to earn-in a 60% interest in Strathmore’s Pinetree-Reno Creek Property located in Campbell County, Wyoming.
The Pinetree-Reno Creek Property, the only property we currently intend to explore, is without known reserves and our proposed program is exploratory in nature.
Under the terms of the LLC, Strathmore has a right to retain or earn back an 11% interest in the properties. In January 2008, the original agreement was amended to remove Strathmore’s right to retain or earn back the 11% interest in the properties.
Strathmore has contributed its undivided 100% interest in the Pinetree-Reno Creek property to the LLC, pursuant to the LLC agreement.
As of February 28, 2009, we have contributed the following to the LLC, pursuant to the LLC agreement:
$1,500,000 for the joint venture in year, of which $236,886 is going to be expended against exploration costs in the fiscal year ending February 28, 2010;
$131,250 to AUC LLC;
credit for $950,000 spent on PRI data during late 2007; and
$25,000 paid for assignment by PRI of valid Deep Injection Well Permit, which need to be quit claimed to AUC LLC in order to obtain credit for joint venture year two
Also pursuant to the LLC agreement, we have delivered 130,435 shares (6,000,000 common shares prior to share consolidation 46:1) of our common stock and $300,000 to Strathmore. We have now satisfied the minimum year one payment of $1,500,000 to AUC LLC.
In order to earn the 60%, we intend to do the following:
pay a total of $12,375,000 in order to earn a 22.5% interest in the Pinetree-Reno Creek property sometime over next four years; and
pay $20,625,000 in order to earn the remaining 37.5% interest that is available to us pursuant to the LLC agreement.
Mineral property exploration is typically conducted in phases. Each subsequent phase of exploration work is recommended by a geologist based on the results from the most recent phase of exploration. In 2008, we will commence the initial phase of exploration on our property. Once we complete each phase of exploration, we will make a decision as to whether or not we proceed with each successive phase based upon the analysis of the results of that program. Our board of directors will make these decisions based upon the recommendations of the independent geologist who oversees the program and records the results.
Our plan of operation is to carry out the agreement that we entered into, effective August 20, 2007, with Strathmore Resources (US) Ltd. That agreement provides for an option for our company to earn-up to a 60% interest in the Pinetree-Reno Creek Property located in Campbell County, Wyoming.
Our plan of operations over the next 12 months involves carrying out the terms of the LLC agreement with Strathmore Resources (US) Ltd. We intend to continue permitting and licensing work and we may acquire, integrate and analyze existing drill data for the joint venture property and add fill-in properties to the joint venture lands in order to increase our resource base.
We implemented a program of exploration in May 2008. The program involves data analysis, environmental studies and permitting work. Environmental baseline studies began which will provide the data necessary for the preparation of permit and license applications to be submitted in 2010. As a key part of this work, it is planned to drill 18 hydrologic test wells in and around the Reno Creek property.
Completed work in 2008:
obtained permit to drill hydrologic test wells from Wyoming’s State Engineer’s Office and State Department of Environmental Quality, Land Quality Division; and
began environmental and related work need for State and Federal permits/licenses.
Location and Description of the Pinetree-Reno Creek Property
The Pinetree-Reno Creek Property is located in Wyoming's Powder River basin in the Pumpkin Buttes District. The region of the Pinetree-Reno Creek Property has been designated by the U.S. Department of Agriculture as part of the Northern Rolling High Plains of the Western Great Plains Range and Irrigated Region. The property is generally covered by sagebrush and grasslands with scattered intermittent drainages. The drainages sometimes produce steep channel walls.
Land use in the Reno Creek vicinity is dominated by cattle and sheep ranching. Crops are limited to hay and forage. Oil and gas exploration and coal and coal-bed methane extraction occurs in the area and there is significant infrastructure in place that may be of assistance to the exploration of the Pinetree-Reno Creek property.
Climate
The Pinetree-Reno Creek uranium property’s climate is semi-arid and receives an annual precipitation of approximately 12-15 inches, the most falling in the form of late autumnal to early spring snows. The summer months are usually hot, dry and clear except for infrequent heavy rains. Because of the dry climate, all streams in the area are intermittent, with no perennial streams near the prospect. The annual mean temperature is 58.3°F; with the January mean being 24.8°F and the July mean of 70.5°F. Temperature extremes range from -30°F to over 100°F.
Seasonality
The company operates year-round. Although field exploration work tends to be conducted only during the temperate months, American Uranium is not a seasonal business.
Access to Property
The Pinetree-Reno Creek Property is accessible via paved or dirt roads.
The Property is located approximately 80 highway miles northeast of Casper, Wyoming 40 miles south of Gillette, Wyoming and nine highway miles west of Wright, Wyoming. Access to the project area is very good, with Wyoming Highway 387 passing through the Property boundary. Well-maintained, graveled county and gas-oil field roads in conjunction with ranchers’ two-track trails provide good access for drilling locations.
Source of Power and Water
The Pinetree-Reno Creek area has long had oil, gas, and coal-bed methane activities, so there is abundant electric power and water for use in our exploration activities.
Exploration History
The Pinetree-Reno Creek area has been extensively explored since the 1950's. During the 1980's and 1990’s, Rocky Mountain Energy Corp., Energy Fuels Inc. and International Uranium Corp. (Denison) carried out In-Situ Recovery testing on the Pinetree and Reno Creek properties.
During the late 1990’s, International Uranium Corp nearly completed all required State and Federal permitting of the Reno Creek In-Situ Recovery mine and processing facility, including US Nuclear Regulatory Commission license. The property was subsequently held by Rio Algom and Power Resources, which abandoned it in 2003. Strathmore Minerals Corp. obtained Reno Creek in 2004 and we formed our joint venture with them in 2007.
Figure 1 shows the location of the Pinetree-Reno Creek property within the state of Wyoming Figure 2 shows a view of the location of the Pinetree-Reno Creek property within the state of Wyoming
Figure 3 shows a view of the location of the Pinetree-Reno Creek property within the state of Wyoming
Mineralization of the Reno Creek Property
The Pinetree-Reno Creek Property is comprised of two sections: (1) the Pinetree Property and (2) the Reno Creek Property.
The earth at the Pinetree-Reno Creek Property is sandstone, known as the lower “Wasatch Formation” of Eocene age. The Wasatch Formation is a fluvial sedimentary sequence that was deposited during a period of wet, subtropical climatic conditions. The major source of the sands was from highlands to the south and southwest that were uplifted by the shifting of tectonic plates and the formation of mountains. Sediments were deposited by meandering streams which deposited channel and point bar sediments that fine upwards through the sequence. In addition to the medium grained sands, there are smaller amounts of clay and siltstones, carbonaceous shale and thin coal seams. The sandstone on the claims shows signs of being altered, in places, by oxidization, exhibiting hematitic alteration colors, which are shades of pink, light red, brownish-red and orange-red, and limonitic colors, which are shades of yellow, yellowish-orange, yellowish-brown and reddish-orange. The alteration colors are easily distinguished from the unaltered medium-bluish gray sands. Feldspar alteration, which gives a “bleached” appearance to the sands from the chemical alteration of feldspars into clay minerals, is also present.
Carbon trash is occasionally present in both the altered and reduced sands. In general, the unaltered sands have a greater percentage of organic carbon (~0.2%) than the altered sands (0.13%) in selected cores (historical data) analyzed. Carbon in unaltered sands is shiny; while it is dull and flaky in the altered sands.
The Pinetree-Reno Creek Property is located on private lands and State Leases wherein the underlying minerals are respectively by the federal and state governments. The federal mineral rights are administered by the U.S. Department of Interior’s Bureau of Land Management. As part of the Stock Raising Homestead Act of 1916, lands that were not suitable for cultivation but were suitable for stock grazing were patented with the mineral rights retained by the government of the United States. This act allows for the locating of mining claims atop federal minerals on privately held lands. The lands on which the Pinetree-Reno Creek claims lie were patented under the Stock Raising Homestead Act of 1916. Management believes that the proper notices have been filed and delivered and we intend to ensure that the status is maintained during our exploration program or longer, depending on the interests of our company.
The Pinetree-Reno Creek Property currently has a mostly natural appearance in spite of on-going oil, gas and coal bed methane activities. There is little evidence of previous uranium exploration activity.
Work Conducted By American Uranium
No work has yet been conducted by American Uranium on the Pinetree-Reno Creek Property. We implemented a program of exploration in May 2008. The program involves data analysis, environmental studies and permitting work. Environmental baseline studies began which will provide the data necessary for the preparation of permit and license applications to be submitted in 2010. As a key part of this work, it is planned to drill 18 hydrologic test wells in and around the Reno Creek property.
Completed work in 2008:
obtained permit to drill hydrologic test wells from Wyoming’s State Engineer’s Office and State Department of Environmental Quality, Land Quality Division; and
began environmental and related work need for State and Federal permits/licenses.
For the year ended February 28, 2009, we have spent a total of $1,163,805 ($2,368,333 from our inception March 23, 2005 to February 28, 2009) on the Pinetree-Reno Creek Property. This total includes a cash advance of $409,000 and three additional quarterly payments of $131,250 each will cover our expected required minimum exploration costs through January 3, 2010. Expenditures beyond January 3, 2010 are subject to a budget approval process.
Current State of Exploration
We have not yet begun our exploration program on the Pinetree-Reno Creek Property. We have not determined whether any of the known uranium deposits on the Pinetree-Reno Creek Property will be economically exploitable or whether additional uranium will be found.
American Uranium Proposed Program of Exploration
Our plan of operations over the next 12 months involves carrying out the terms of the LLC agreement with Strathmore Resources (US) Ltd. We intend to acquire, integrate and analyze existing drill data for the joint venture property and add fill-in properties to the joint venture lands in order to increase our resource base.
Holding costs of the unpatented lode mining claims include a claim maintenance fee of $125.00 per claim payable to the U.S. Department of Interior’s Bureau of Land Management on or before September 1 of each calendar year and those for recording an affidavit and Notice of Intent to hold with the Office of the Clerk, Campbell County Wyoming. County filing fees for documents is $8.00 for the first page and $3.00 per page thereafter, with up to 10 sections of land noted per document. The above Bureau of Land Management maintenance fees will be due again before September 1, 2009, and each year thereafter, the affidavit and Notice of Intent fees will be due again before December 31, 2009, and each year thereafter.
Compliance with Government Regulation
We will secure all necessary permits for exploration and, if development is warranted on the Pinetree-Reno Creek Property, we will file final plans of operation before we start any mining operations. We anticipate no discharge of water into active stream, creek, river, lake or any other body of water regulated by environmental law or regulation. No endangered species will be disturbed. If we ever abandon the Pinetree-Reno Creek Property, we plan to seal or fill in all holes and pits that we have created. It is difficult to estimate the cost of compliance with environmental laws since the full nature and extent of our proposed activities cannot be determined until we start our operations and know what that will involve from an environmental standpoint.
Nu Star Properties - Arizona
Our mineral claims are described as follows:
Location and Description of the Arizona Property
The Nu Star property consists of 449 federal mining claims in 5 blocks (approximately 9,000 acres) located in the Colorado Plateau of the Arizona Strip in northern Arizona. The location of our Wit and Rush claim blocks are shown in Figure 4 below, which also shows the location of the Nu Star properties in the State of Arizona. Details of the locations of the Big, Candy and Rock claim blocks are shown in Figure 5 below.
Figure 4 Big, Candy and Rock claims; location of claims in the State
Figure 5 Location of the Rock, Big and Candy claims
Present Condition
There are no plants or equipment on the property, including subsurface improvements. The property is without known reserves and our proposed program is exploratory in nature.
Seasonality
Operations on the property may be conducted year round.
Mineralization
The Nu Star property consists of 449 federal mining claims in five blocks (approximately 9,000 acres) located in the Colorado Plateau of the Arizona Strip in northern Arizona. The five claim blocks (named Big, Wit, Candy, Rock, and Rush) are shown in Figures 4 and 6 above. There are no known uranium resources on the Nu Star Property.
The topography of the Nu Star properties in high arid Colorado Plateau country cut by canyons.
Access to Property
The property is located in the Arizona Strip region of northern Arizona. Access to the project area is good by an existing network of usable dirt roads. If a work program is conducted, the network of existing roads would be sufficient to transport people and equipment to the property.
Source of Water and Power
No power is currently utilized on the property. If exploration or mining activities were to be carried out on the property, we would use diesel generators, but there are existing power lines crossing the region that serviced former mine sites.
Exploration History
The 449 federal mining claims leased by American Uranium were staked and are currently owned by Nu Star Exploration LLC. The only past work done on these claims has been reconnaissance surface geological studies. There has been no past drilling or mining on these claims.
Current State of Exploration
The present condition of the property is in its natural state. No work has been done on the property by our company. There are no plant and equipment on the property, including subsurface improvements and equipment. No power is utilized on the property. As of February 28, 2009, we issued a total of 3,282 common shares of our company and paid a total of $144,556 as part of acquisition costs. We have also expended $57,500 in environmental and permitting.
American Uranium Proposed Program of Exploration
The property is without known reserves and the proposed program is exploratory in nature. We currently have no proposed program of exploration and development.
Compliance with Government Regulation
We will secure all necessary permits for exploration and, if development is warranted on the Nu Star property, we will file final plans of operation before we start any mining operations. We anticipate no discharge of water into active stream, creek, river, lake or any other body of water regulated by environmental law or regulation. No endangered species will be disturbed. If we ever abandon the Nu Star property, we plan to seal or fill in all holes and pits that we have created. It is difficult to estimate the cost of compliance with environmental laws since the full nature and extent of our proposed activities cannot be determined until we start our operations and know what that will involve from an environmental standpoint.
British Columbia, Canada
We hold a 100% interest in one, 24-unit mineral claim in the Nanaimo Mining Division, British Columbia, Canada. The claims are registered in the name of our former President, who has executed a trust agreement whereby he agrees to hold the claims in trust on our behalf. Management has determined that this property is not material to us and we will not conduct an exploration program on this property in the foreseeable future.
ITEM 3.