ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
Pine Tree-Reno Creek Property
We are in the mineral resource business. Effective August 20, 2007 we entered into an option and joint venture agreement with Strathmore Resources (US) Ltd. Pursuant to the agreement, we have an option to earn-in a 60% interest in Strathmore’s Pinetree-Reno Creek uranium properties located in Campbell County, Wyoming. The property is located in the central Powder River Basin, within the Pumpkin Buttes Uranium District, and encompasses approximately 16,000 acres. Under the terms of the agreement, we have issued six million shares of common stock of our company to Strathmore and have reimbursed Strathmore 100% of its expenditures incurred by Strathmore for the Property, in the amount of $300,000. We are required to reimburse funds spent by Strathmore to acquire additional uranium leases (which will then form part of the property); and incur a total of $33,000,000 in expenditures on the Property over a six year period of which $1,500,000 must be incurred in the first year, $1,500,000 in the second year, $2,000,000 in the third year and $28,000,000 before the end of the sixth year.
Pursuant to the agreement, if we incur $12,375,000 in expenditures, we will earn a 22.5% interest in the property and at that point will become a joint venture partner with Strathmore. Until we have earned our 60% interest in the property, Strathmore will be the operator. We had no pre-existing affiliation with Strathmore Resources.
On March 23, 2005 we acquired a 100% interest in one-24 unit mineral claims in the Nanaimo Mining Division, British Columbia, Canada, in consideration for $1,750. The claims on that property are registered in the name of the former President of our Company, who has executed a trust agreement whereby the former President agrees to hold the claims in trust on our behalf. We do not believe that this property is material to our company and we do not intend to explore this property in the foreseeable future.
Effective August 20, 2007, the Company entered into an agreement with Strathmore Resources (US) Ltd. (“Strathmore”) for an option to earn-up to a 60% interest in the Pine Tree-Reno Creek Property located in Campbell County, Wyoming. the Pine Tree-Reno Creek Property, the only property we currently intend to explore, is without known reserves and our proposed program is exploratory in nature.
Effective December 31, 2007, we entered into an amendment to our option and joint venture agreement with Strathmore Resources (US) Ltd. (“Strathmore”) through which we have the option to earn-in a 60% interest in Strathmore’s Pine Tree-Reno Creek Property located in Campbell County, Wyoming.
Under the terms of the agreement, Strathmore had a right to retain or earn back an 11% interest in the properties. In January 2008, the original agreement was amended to remove Strathmore’s right to retain or earn back the 11% interest in the properties.
Under the terms of the agreement, as amended, the Company has:
Issued 6,000,000 shares of common stock to Strathmore (issued);
- 10 -
Reimbursed Strathmore 100% of the expenditures incurred by Strathmore for the property, up to a maximum of $300,000 (paid), plus any funds spent by Strathmore to acquire additional uranium leases (which will then form part of the property); and
Under the terms of the agreement, as amended, the Company intends to:
Incur a total of $33,000,000 in expenditures on the property over a six year period, of which $1,500,000 must be incurred in the first year.
Pursuant to the agreement, if we incur $12,375,000 in expenditures, we will earn a 22.5% interest in the property and at that point will become a joint venture partner with Strathmore. The remaining 37.5% interest will be earned upon incurring the balance of $20,625,000 in required expenditures. The subsequent amendment in January, 2008 resulted in the deletion of Strathmore’s right to earn back an 11% interest in the property for $14,000,000 within 90 days of the delivery of a feasibility report. Strathmore will be the operator until the Company earns a 60% interest in the property.
Maps of the Pine Tree-Reno Creek Property are included below under the section entitled “Location and Description of the Property”. There is no assurance that any commercially viable uranium or any other type of mineral deposits exist on the any of our properties. We acquired an option to earn an interest in the Pine Tree-Reno Creek Property at a mineral claim costs of $8,160,000 represented by $300,000 and the issuance of 6,000,000 shares with a fair value of $7,860,000.
Mineral property exploration is typically conducted in phases. Each subsequent phase of exploration work is recommended by a geologist based on the results from the most recent phase of exploration. In 2008, we will commence the initial phase of exploration on our property. Once we complete each phase of exploration, we will make a decision as to whether or not we proceed with each successive phase based upon the analysis of the results of that program. Our board of directors will make these decisions based upon the recommendations of the independent geologist who oversees the program and records the results.
Our plan of operation is to carry out the agreement that we entered into, effective August 20, 2007, with Strathmore Resources (US) Ltd. That agreement provides for an option for our company to earn-up to a 60% interest in the Pine Tree-Reno Creek Property located in Campbell County, Wyoming.
Our plan of operations over the next 12 months involves carrying out the terms of the joint venture agreement with Strathmore Resources (US) Ltd. We intend to acquire, integrate and analyze existing drill data for the joint venture property and add fill-in properties to the joint venture lands in order to increase our resource base.
Then, we anticipate implementing a program of exploration in May 2008. The program will involve data analysis, test well drilling and monitoring, environmental studies and permitting work.
Planned work for 2008 includes:
Obtain permit to drill hydrologic test wells from Wyoming’s State Engineer’s Office and State Department of Environmental Quality, Land Quality Division;
Begin environmental and related work need for State and Federal permits/licenses; and,
Acquire additional property.
- 11 -
Under the terms of the agreement with Strathmore Resources (US) Ltd., we have issued 6,000,000 shares of common stock to Strathmore, as the first part of our obligations under the agreement.
Under the terms of the agreement with Strathmore Resources (US) Ltd., we have agreed to reimburse Strathmore 100% of its expenditures incurred for the property, up to a maximum of $300,000, plus any funds spent by Strathmore to acquire additional uranium leases, which will then form part of the property; and, incur a total of $33,000,000 in expenditures on the property over a six year period, of which $1,500,000 must be incurred in the first year.
The agreement provides that we will earn a 22.5% interest in the Pine Tree-Reno Creek Property once we have incurred $12,375,000 of the required $33,000,000 expenditures. The remaining 37.5% interest will be earned upon incurring the balance of $20,625,000 in required expenditures. Strathmore will be the operator until the Company earns the 60% interest in the property.
Over the next 12 months we intend to continue to integrate and analyze existing drill data Geologic Data related to our Reno Creek prospect that we acquired on October 10, 2007 through a Purchase Agreement with Power Resources, Inc. in exchange for consideration of $950,000.
Even if we complete all of the steps under the agreement and we are successful in finding economically recoverable uranium, we may not be able to pay our expenses or achieve profitable operations.
The Pine Tree-Reno Creek Property is comprised of 123 unpatented mining claims. Many of the claims on the property are on split-title lands. This means that the surface of the land is owned by private landowners and the underlying minerals are owned by the federal government and administered by the U.S. Department of Interior’s Bureau of Land Management (BLM). The remainder of the property is comprised of claims held through state and private leases.
Location and Description of the Pine Tree-Reno Creek Property
The Pine Tree-Reno Creek Property is located in Wyoming's Powder River basin in the Pumpkin Buttes District. The region of the Pine Tree-Reno Creek Property has been designated by the U.S. Department of Agriculture as part of the Northern Rolling High Plains of the Western Great Plains Range and Irrigated Region. The property is generally covered by sagebrush and grasslands with scattered intermittent drainages. The drainages sometimes produce steep channel walls.
Land use in the Reno Creek vicinity is dominated by cattle and sheep ranching. Crops are limited to hay and forage. Oil and gas exploration and coal and coal-bed methane extraction occurs in the area and there is significant infrastructure in place that may be of assistance to the exploration of the Pine Tree-Reno Creek property.
Climate
The Pine Tree-Reno Creek uranium property’s climate is semi-arid and receives an annual precipitation of approximately 12-15 inches, the most falling in the form of late autumnal to early spring snows. The summer months are usually hot, dry and clear except for infrequent heavy rains. Because of the dry climate, all streams in the area are intermittent, with no perennial streams near the prospect. The annual mean temperature is 58.3°F; with the January mean being 24.8°F and the July mean of 70.5°F. Temperature extremes range from -30°F to over 100°F.
- 12 -
Access to Property
The Pine Tree-Reno Creek Property is accessible via paved or dirt roads.
The Property is located approximately 80 highway miles northeast of Casper, Wyoming 40 miles south of Gillette, Wyoming and 9 highway miles west of Wright, Wyoming. Access to the project area is very good, with Wyoming Highway 387 passing through the Property boundary. Well-maintained, graveled county and gas-oil field roads in conjunction with ranchers’ two-track trails provide good access for drilling locations.
Exploration History
The Pine Tree-Reno Creek area has been extensively explored since the 1950's. During the 1980's and 1990’s, Rocky Mountain Energy Corp., Energy Fuels Inc. and International Uranium Corp. (Denison) carried out In-Situ Recovery testing on the Pine Tree and Reno Creek properties.
During the late 1990’s, International Uranium Corp nearly completed all required State and Federal permitting of the Reno Creek In-Situ Recovery mine and processing facility, including US Nuclear Regulatory Commission license. The property was subsequently held by Rio Algom and Power Resources, which abandoned it in 2003. Strathmore Minerals Corp. obtained Reno Creek in 2004 and we formed our joint venture with them in 2007.
Figure 1
- 13 -
Figure 2 Reno Creek Property: Claim Location Map from Technical Report on the
Figure 3 State of Wyoming: Physiography
- 14 -
Mineralization of the Reno Creek Property
The Pine Tree-Reno Creek Property is comprised of two sections: (1) the Pine Tree Property and (2) the Reno Creek Property.
The earth at the Pine Tree-Reno Creek Property is sandstone, known as the lower “Wasatch Formation” of Eocene age. The Wasatch Formation is a fluvial sedimentary sequence that was deposited during a period of wet, subtropical climatic conditions. The major source of the sands was from highlands to the south and southwest that were uplifted by the shifting of tectonic plates and the formation of mountains. Sediments were deposited by meandering streams which deposited channel and point bar sediments that fine upwards through the sequence. In addition to the medium grained sands, there are smaller amounts of clay and siltstones, carbonaceous shale and thin coal seams. The sandstone on the claims shows signs of being altered, in places, by oxidization, exhibiting hematitic alteration colors, which are shades of pink, light red, brownish-red and orange-red, and limonitic colors, which are shades of yellow, yellowish-orange, yellowish-brown and reddish-orange. The alteration colors are easily distinguished from the unaltered medium-bluish gray sands. Feldspar alteration, which gives a “bleached” appearance to the sands from the chemical alteration of feldspars into clay minerals, is also present.
Carbon trash is occasionally present in both the altered and reduced sands. In general, the unaltered sands have a greater percentage of organic carbon (~0.2%) than the altered sands (0.13%) in selected cores (historical data) analyzed. Carbon in unaltered sands is shiny; while it is dull and flaky in the altered sands.
The Pine Tree-Reno Creek Property is located on private lands and State Leases wherein the underlying minerals are respectively by the federal and state governments. The federal mineral rights are administered by the U.S. Department of Interior’s Bureau of Land Management. As part of the Stock Raising Homestead Act of 1916, lands that were not suitable for cultivation but were suitable for stock grazing were patented with the mineral rights retained by the government of the United States. This act allows for the locating of mining claims atop federal minerals on privately held lands. The lands on which the Pine Tree-Reno Creek claims lie were patented under the Stock Raising Homestead Act of 1916. Management believes that the proper notices have been filed and delivered and we intend to ensure that the status is maintained during our exploration program or longer, depending on the interests of our company.
The Pine Tree-Reno Creek Property currently has a mostly natural appearance in spite of on-going oil, gas and coal bed methane activities. There is little evidence of previous uranium exploration activity.
Work Conducted By American Uranium
No work has yet been conducted by American Uranium on the Pine Tree-Reno Creek Property. We plan to begin a program of exploration in the second calendar quarter of 2008.
Current State of Exploration
We have not yet begun our exploration program on the Pine Tree-Reno Creek Property. We have not determined whether any of the known uranium deposits on the Pine Tree-Reno Creek Property will be economically exploitable or whether additional uranium will be found.
- 15 -
American Uranium Proposed Program of Exploration
Our plan of operations over the next 12 months involves carrying out the terms of the joint venture agreement with Strathmore Resources (US) Ltd. We intend to acquire, integrate and analyze existing drill data for the joint venture property and add fill-in properties to the joint venture lands in order to increase our resource base.
Then, we anticipate implementing a program of exploration in May 2008. The program will involve data analysis, test well drilling and monitoring, environmental studies and permitting work.
Planned work for 2008 includes:
Obtain permit to drill hydrologic test wells from Wyoming’s State Engineer’s Office and State Department of Environmental Quality, Land Quality Division;
Begin environmental and related work need for State and Federal permits/licenses; and,
Acquire additional property.
Under the terms of the agreement with Strathmore Resources (US) Ltd., we have issued 6,000,000 shares of common stock to Strathmore, as the first part of our obligations under the agreement.
Under the terms of the agreement with Strathmore Resources (US) Ltd., we have agreed to reimburse Strathmore 100% of its expenditures incurred for the property, up to a maximum of $300,000, plus any funds spent by Strathmore to acquire additional uranium leases, which will then form part of the property; and, incur a total of $33,000,000 in expenditures on the property over a six year period, of which $1,500,000 must be incurred in the first year.
The agreement provides that we will earn a 22.5% interest in the Pine Tree-Reno Creek Property if we incur $12,375,000 of the required $33,000,000 expenditures. The remaining 37.5% interest will be earned upon incurring the balance of $20,625,000 in required expenditures. Strathmore will be the operator until the Company earns the 60% interest in the property.
Over the next 12 months we intend to continue to integrate and analyze existing drill data Geologic Data related to our Reno Creek prospect that we acquired on October 10, 2007 through a Purchase Agreement with Power Resources, Inc. in exchange for consideration of $950,000.
Even if we complete all of the steps under the agreement and we are successful in finding economically recoverable uranium, we may not be able to pay our expenses or achieve profitable operations.
Holding costs of the unpatented lode mining claims include a claim maintenance fee of $125.00 per claim payable to the U.S. Department of Interior’s Bureau of Land Management on or before September 1 of each calendar year and those for recording an affidavit and Notice of Intent to hold with the Office of the Clerk, Campbell County Wyoming. County filing fees for documents is $8.00 for the first page and $3.00 per page thereafter, with up to 10 sections of land noted per document. The above Bureau of Land Management maintenance fees will be due again before September 1, 2008, and each year thereafter, the affidavit and Notice of Intent fees will be due again before December 31, 2008, and each year thereafter.
Property in British Columbia, Canada
We also hold a 100% interest in one, 24-unit mineral claim in the Nanaimo Mining Division, British Columbia, Canada. The claims are registered in the name of our former President, who has executed a
- 16 -
trust agreement whereby he agrees to hold the claims in trust on our behalf. Management has determined that this property is not material to us and we will not conduct an exploration program on this property in the foreseeable future.
Compliance with Government Regulation
We will secure all necessary permits for exploration and, if development is warranted on the Pine Tree-Reno Creek Property, we will file final plans of operation before we start any mining operations. We anticipate no discharge of water into active stream, creek, river, lake or any other body of water regulated by environmental law or regulation. No endangered species will be disturbed. If we ever abandon the Pine Tree-Reno Creek Property, we plan to seal or fill in all holes and pits that we have created. It is difficult to estimate the cost of compliance with environmental laws since the full nature and extent of our proposed activities cannot be determined until we start our operations and know what that will involve from an environmental standpoint.
Competition
The mining industry is intensely competitive. We compete with numerous individuals and companies, including many major mining companies, which have substantially greater technical, financial and operational resources and staffs. Accordingly, there is a high degree of competition for access to funds. There are other competitors that have operations in the area and the presence of these competitors could adversely affect our ability to compete for financing and obtain the service providers, staff or equipment necessary for the exploration and exploitation of the Pine Tree-Reno Creek Property.
Intellectual Property
We do not have any intellectual property.
Employees
We currently have three employees: two full-time and one part-time. Our full-time employees are our President, Secretary and a director and our Manager of Corporate Development. Our part-time employee is our CFO, Treasurer and a director. We have entered into a consulting agreement with part-time employee, which is incorporated by reference as an exhibit to the annual report on Form 10-K of which this report forms a part. We do not expect any material changes in the number of employees over the next 12 month period. We do and will continue to outsource contract employment as needed.
ITEM 3.