ITEM 2.PROPERTIES
Executive Offices
Our corporate headquarter is located at Calle 67 #7-35, Oficina 409, Bogotá, Colombia. At this location we rent approximately 3,000 square feet of office space. We also have leased a house in the town of La Gabarra, Colombia, where we have office facilities, accommodations for our employees and contractors and some equipment for the Puerto Barco and Rio de Oro fields.
Reserves
The proved oil reserves of La Cortez Energy have been estimated by an independent engineering company DeGolyer and MacNaughton (D&M), as of December 31, 2011. These reserve estimates have been prepared in compliance with the regulations promulgated by the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”). Their report as of December 31, 2011 presents estimates of the value of the proved, probable, and possible crude oil reserves and the estimates of the value of the proved, proved-plus-probable, and proved-plus-probable-plus-possible reserves of the Mirto field in the Maranta Block in Colombia, in which La Cortez Energy (La Cortez) owns an interest. The report of D&M as of December 31, 2011, is filed as an exhibit to this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Reserves estimated are expressed as gross and net reserves. Gross reserves are defined as the total estimated petroleum remaining to be produced after December 31, 2011 from the properties where La Cortez has interests. Net reserves are defined as that portion of the gross reserves attributable to the interests owned by La Cortez after deducting all interests owned by others, including royalties paid in kind.
Estimates of reserves were prepared by the use of appropriate geologic, petroleum engineering, and evaluation principles and techniques that are in accordance with the practices generally recognized by the petroleum industry as presented in the publication of the Society of Petroleum Engineers entitled “Standards Pertaining to the Estimating and Auditing of Oil and Gas Reserves Information (Revision as of February 19, 2007)”. The method or combination of methods in the analysis of each reservoir was tempered by experience with similar reservoirs, stage of development, quality and completeness of basic data, and production history. When applicable, the volumetric method was used to determine the original in place. Estimates were made by using various types of logs, core analysis, and other available data. Formation tops, gross thickness, and representative values for net pay thickness, porosity, and interstitial fluid saturations were used to prepare structural maps to delineate each reservoir and isopachous maps to determine reservoir volumes.
Estimates of ultimate recovery were obtained by applying recovery efficiency factors to the original quantities of petroleum in place. These factors were based on consideration of the type of energy inherent in the reservoir, analysis of the fluid and rock properties, the structural position of the properties, and the production history. In some instances, comparisons were made with similar producing reservoirs in the area where more compete data were available.
Where adequate data were available and where circumstances justified, material balance and other engineering methods were used to estimate recovery factors. In these instances, reservoir performance parameters such as cumulative production, producing rate, reservoir pressure, gas oil ratio behavior, and water production were considered in estimating recovery efficiencies used in determining gross ultimate recovery.
For depletion-type reservoirs or other reservoirs where performance has disclosed a reliable decline in producing rate trends or other diagnostic characteristics, reserves were estimated by the application of appropriate decline curves or other performance relationships. In analyzing decline curves, reserves were estimated to the calculated economic limits based on the current economic conditions.
In certain cases where the previously named methods could not be used, reserves were estimated by analogy with similar reservoirs where more complete data were available.
The reserves estimated by D&M were based on consideration of monthly production data through December 31, 2011. Cumulative production, as of December 31, 2011, was deducted from the gross ultimate recovery to determine the estimated gross reserves. Oil reserves estimated are expressed in 42 United States gallons per barrel.
Future prices were estimated using guidelines established by the SEC and the Financial Accounting Standard Board (FASB). Values for proved, probable, and possible reserves were based on projections of estimated future production and revenue prepared for the properties with no risk adjustment applied to the probable and possible reserves. Probable and possible reserves involve substantially higher risks that proved reserves. Oil prices were based on a 12-month average price, calculated as the unweighted average of the first-day-of-the-month price for each month within the 12-month period prior to the end of the reporting period, unless prices are defined by contractual agreements. The 12-month average adjusted product price was U.S. $77.97 per barrel for crude oil based on 12-month average benchmark price of U.S. $95.96 per barrel. The adjustments to price include differentials from WTI to Vasconia, transportation costs, blending and diluents costs and trading fees.
No natural gas volumes produced were included in the estimation as this gas will be used for internal consumption or will be flared. All of the Company’s reserves are located in Colombia, primarily in the Putumayo basin.
The technical person responsible for overseeing the reserves evaluation is a Senior Vice President of D&M. He has a Bachelor degree in Chemical Engineering and is a registered professional engineer in Houston, Texas. He has over 34 years of industry experience in various domestic and international engineering and management roles.
Proved, probable and possible reserves as of December 31, 2011 are as follows:
Note: Probable and possible reserves have not been risk adjusted to make them comparable to proved reserves
An analysis of the change in estimated quantities of proved oil reserves is shown below:
2010 reserves audit was conducted by Ryder Scott
2011 reserves audit was conducted by DeGolyer and MacNaugthon
Difference in both years is mainly due to revision of previous estimates due to performance
Description of Properties
Colombia
Source: Google Earth
Maranta and Putumayo 4 Blocks
Source: La Cortez Energy, Inc.
Putumayo 4
On December 22, 2008, the Company entered into a memorandum of understanding (the “MOU”) with Petroleos del Norte S.A. (“Petronorte”), a Colombian subsidiary of Petrolatina Energy Limited, that entitles the Company to a 50% net working interest in the Putumayo 4 block (the “Putumayo 4 Block”). According to the MOU, the Company will have the exclusive right to a 50% net participation interest in the Putumayo 4 Block and in the exploration and production contract (the “E&P Contract”) after ANH production participation. Petronorte signed an E&P Contract with the ANH in February 2009. Petronorte is the “operator” under the E&P Contract.
General Description
The Putumayo 4 Block covers an area of 126,845 acres (51,333 hectares) located in the Putumayo Basin in southern Colombia and has over 400 km of pre-existing 2D seismic, through which La Cortez and Petronorte have identified promising leads.
There are four existing wells in the Putumayo 4 Block that date back to the 1970’s, though information about them is scarce. These wells were intended to reach the Caballos formation and in doing so, oil shows were recorded from the Villeta formation, our primary objective. Furthermore, neighboring and close fields, including Nancy-Burdine-Maxine, Costayaco and Orito, have been prolific hydrocarbon producers, partially affirming our expectations in the block.
Location
The Putumayo-4 Block is located in the southwest part of Colombia, approximately 1,000 km from Bogotá, Colombia's capital city. It covers an extension of 51,333 hectares (126,847 acres) located in the Putumayo Basin.
The Block can be accessed by secondary roads, which are in good condition, as well as by rivers, which for some indigenous communities are the primary means of transport. The Block is intersected by the Puerto Asis - Orito and Puerto Asis - Mocoa roads. It is also possible to access the Block by airplane. The terrain is somewhat hilly with abundant rainforest.
There are some fluvial streams and rivers. The climate is warm (approximately 30 degrees Celsius on average), with high humidity and frequent, heavy rainfall.
The Transandean pipeline, which runs parallel to the Puerto Asis - Orito road, has oil transport capacity of over 100,000 barrels per day. This pipeline runs from the SurOriente Block and takes production to the port of Tumaco on the Pacific Ocean. In addition there is oil infrastructure in neighboring blocks.
Regional Geology
The Putumayo Basin is located in southwest Colombia and is a foreland basin type. It has 19 oil and gas field discoveries with reserves of 365 million barrels of oil and reserves of 305 billion cubic feet of gas. The Caguán-Putumayo Basin is the northern extension of the Oriente Basin of Ecuador. This basin has an extension of about 104,000 square kilometers.
In this area, exploration activities started in 1948 by Texaco. In 1963 Texaco discovered the major Orito oil field with reserves of approximately 250 million barrels of oil. The existence of a petroliferous system at work is documented by the several oil fields discovered in the basin. Oil fields in the basin are related to structural traps, mainly contractional fault-related folds, and reverse faulting. Additional oil reserves could be found in significant quantities trapped in sub-basement traps, wrench related anticlines, and drapes over basement highs and subtle stratigraphic traps at the eastern flank of the basin. Presence of these traps suggests that large parts of the basin still have significant exploration potential.
The boundaries of this basin are: the Eastern Cordillera foothills thrust system to the northwest; the Macarena structural high to the northeast; the Ecuadorian and Peruvian international border to the south and a structural high to the east, which includes the Serranía de Chiribiquete.
The principal reservoir in the basin is the cretaceous sandstones of the Caballos Formation with an average thickness of 300 ft, with porosities range from 10% to 16% and with an average permeability of 50 md. The secondary reservoirs are found in sandstones of the Villeta Formation and Pepino conglomerates.
Field Geology
No oil fields have been discovered in the block. The analogous and nearest oil fields are Nancy and Burdine Fields. These fields have commercial production from the Villeta Formation, N and U sands respectively. Both fields were discovered in the 1970s.
Four exploration wells have been drilled in this block in the 1970s, called Susan-1, Helen-1, Evelin and Setuko-1. These wells were drilled having as the main objective, the Caballos formation, which is not productive in this part of the basin. However, some of the wells presented oil shows in the sandstones of the Villeta formation, which now is the main exploratory objective.
Seismic Coverage
The Putumayo-4 Block has over 1,200 km of pre-existing 2D seismic acquired between the 1960’s and the 1980’s by different companies and during different acquisition campaigns. La Cortez and Petronorte have reprocessed all the seismic information acquired that confirmed our initial evaluation of several potential leads.
Legal and Environmental Licenses
The Ministry of Environment and Sustainable Development (hereinafter “MADS) requires the establishment of an environmental plan to monitor the compliance of the environmental regulations during all the phases of the project. In the year 2012 Petronorte will continue working in the activities addressed to get the exploration drilling license to be able to drill the first exploratory well in the block planned to the first quarter of 2013. In addition for the seismic phase and to be in compliance with the local authorities of Putumayo where the project is located, the Local Environmental Corporation (“CORPOAMAZONIA”) requires the establishment of a permit for the water use. This permit is in process with the CORPOAMAZONIA.
Infrastructure in the Putumayo region has been rapidly improving. Several important discoveries, including one competitor’s discovery in Costayaco, have resulted in an influx of companies into the region, resulting in a reduction in oil services fees and improving security in the area. Specifically, the Putumayo 4 Block is located near the Orito field, run by Ecopetrol, which is a receiving station for a pipeline to the port Tumaco on the Colombian Pacific. Transportation of potential crude production from the Putumayo 4 Block could be trucked easily to Orito through the paved roads in the area.
Petronorte and the Company have been conducting the community consultation process for the seismic acquisition in the northern part of the Putumayo 4 Block. This process was recently completed, and the bidding process for the seismic work was done. Several seismic service companies were invited to participate for the acquisition of 104.8 km of 2D seismic in the area, which is part of the work commitment to the ANH. An additional 45 - 50 km of 2D seismic will also be acquired as part of the additional investment commitment of $1.6 million gross made to the ANH during the 2008 bidding round. The bid was awarded to Satellite Surveying Services Ltda (SSS Ltda), which is a company well experienced in this Putumayo area. They have successfully conducted more than 12 seismic acquisition projects based on good relationships with the communities; a part of their staff belongs to the same communities. We expect to start the seismic program by late April 2012 after contract configuration and acquiring permits from CORPOAMAZONIA. The seismic acquisition process is expected to take no longer than three months.
Petronorte and the Company are also working on the community consultation process for the drilling of the first exploration well in 2013, in addition to working in preparing the Environmental Impact Study or Estudio de Impacto Ambiental (EIA), to be presented to the Colombian authorities to obtain the exploration well drilling license. It is expected that drilling operations will be initiated in the first quarter of 2013, as soon as all permits are obtained. This exploration well will also be targeting the Villeta formation N, U, and T sands as well as the Caballos formation. Other companies are currently producing from these sands in fields located near the Putumayo 4 Block, though there can be no assurance that this is indicative of the results of our test well.
Petronorte sent a letter to the ANH on May 23, 2011 asking for an extension of the contract for about seven months, due to a delay of that length of time caused by unavailability of the Ministry of Interior representative to carry on with the consultation process with communities, to compensate for the impact on the original schedule. On February 23, 2012, the ANH approved an extension of seven months and five days.
Petronorte has filed a request with the ANH for the assignment of the 50% working interest in the Putumayo 4 Block to the Company. To qualify as a contractor with the ANH, the Company has submitted, legal, operating, technical and financial information, including prior years’ audited financial statements, to be reviewed by the ANH. As indicated before, The ANH has advised that La Cortez needs to provide additional guarantees for the required investment for the first exploration phase. We are evaluating various options to decide whether to provide the additional guarantee or submit a new request later in 2012.
Under the MOU and the joint operating agreement, the Company will be responsible for fifty percent (50%) of the costs incurred under the E&P Contract, entitling it to fifty percent (50%) of the revenues originated from the Putumayo 4 Block, net of royalty and production participation interest payments to the ANH, except that the Company will be responsible for paying two-thirds (2/3) of the costs originated from the first 103 kilometers of 2D seismic to be performed in the Putumayo 4 Block, in accordance with the expected Phase 1 minimum exploration program under the E&P Contract. If a prospective Phase 1 well in a prospect in the Putumayo 4 Block proves productive, Petronorte will reimburse the Company for its share of these seismic costs paid by the Company (which is one-sixth (1/6) share) with their revenues from production from the Putumayo 4 Block.
Social and Other Agreements
In December 2009, a socio-cultural analysis of the social and territorial context of the block was completed, with the participation and support from local government representatives and ethnic communities’ leaders.
The study concluded that there were 22 ethnic communities in and nearby the exploration area.
With this information, the Company sent a request to the Ministry of Interior and Justice to confirm the presence or not of ethnic communities that would be directly affected by the project.
In July 2010, the Ministry of Interior and Justice officially established that the following seven communities were located in the Block:
MUNICIPALITY
ETHNIC COMMUNITY
DENOMINATION
Puerto Caicedo
Awá Indigenous Community
Las Vegas Villa Unión San Andrés
Versabal Afro Community
Versabal
Orito
Los Andes Afro Community
Los Andes
Siona Indigenous Community
Ten Të Yä
Villarbolense Afro Community
Villarbolense
Valle del Guamúez
Cofán Indigenous Community
Villanueva
Cofán Indigenous Community
Bocana del Luzón
In September 2010, the pre-consultation process began to establish agreements with the seven communities.
Current Status of the Pre-Consultation Process with the Seven Communities:
The status of the pre-consultation process with the seven communities by the end of 2011 is as follows and particularly in relation to the seismic operations:
SEISMIC PHASE
NORTH AREA OF THE BLOCK
COMUNITY
STATUS
Versabal
Agreements - Done
Resguardo Las Vegas Villa Unión San Andres
Agreements - Done
SOUTH AREA OF THE BLOCK
COMUNITY
STATUS
Cabildo Ten Te Ya
Pre Consultation Agreements - Done
Villarbolense
Pre Consultation Agreements - Done
Los Andes
No agreement was reached
Bocana de Luzon
Pre-consultation started
Villanueva
Pre-consultation done
In relation with the drilling phase, three communities were identified by the Interior Ministry in the North part of the Block. A new preconsultation process is going to start. At the same time the processes for the seismic phase with the two communities pending in the south area of the block will continue.
DRILLING PHASE
NORTH AREA OF THE BLOCK
COMUNITY
STATUS
Versabal
Process will start in Feb 2012
Nsa Kwuma Te’wezx
Process pending to start
Inkal Awa
Process pending to start
Source: La Cortez Energy, Inc.
Source: La Cortez Energy, Inc.
Maranta
General Description
On February 6, 2009, the Company entered into a farm-in agreement (the “Farm-In Agreement”) with Emerald Energy Plc Sucursal Colombia (“Emerald”), a Colombian branch of Emerald Energy Plc. (“Emerald Energy”), a company existing under the laws of the United Kingdom, for a 20% participating interest (the “Participating Interest”) in the Maranta exploration and production block (“Maranta Block”).
Emerald was awarded the Maranta Block E&P contract by the ANH on September 12, 2006. The E&P contract granted Emerald a 100% working interest in the Maranta Block for an exploration period of up to six years with an initial production period of up to 24 years. The Maranta Block is adjacent to nearby producing oil fields and close to recent discoveries that have tested oil up to 7,000 barrels per day. Emerald identified a number of prospects and leads at an estimated depth of some 11,000 ft. from the existing seismic data, each with a prospective resource potential estimated to be between 5 and 15 million barrels. The Umbria #1 well was drilled in the Maranta Block in 1967 and encountered oil in the Villeta formation. There may also be potential to re-enter this well to further test the formation productivity.
On February 4, 2010, the Company signed a joint operating agreement with Emerald with respect to the Maranta Block, and the Company has asked Emerald to submit a request to the ANH to approve the assignment of the Company’s 20% participating interest to the Company. Emerald filed a request with the ANH for the assignment of the 20% working interest in the Maranta Block to La Cortez. To qualify as a contractor with the ANH, the Company submitted, on April 15, 2011, legal, operating, technical and financial information, including prior years’ audited financial statements, to be reviewed by the ANH. On July 12, 2011, the Company was informed by Emerald that the request for transfer of the 20% interest was not approved because the ANH determined that the submitted information did not comply with the financial requirements demanded by the contract signed between the ANH and Emerald. The Company plans to submit a new request to the ANH once the financial indicators are met. It is expected that this will be done during 2012. Non-approval by the ANH does not affect the current joint operating agreement between Emerald and La Cortez.
This map shows the Maranta Block location.
Source: Emerald Energy Plc., La Cortez Energy, Inc.
Location
The Maranta Block covers an area of 36,608 hectares (90,459 acres) in the foreland of the Putumayo Basin, southern Colombia and has over 600 km of pre-existing 2D seismic through which we and Emerald have identified some leads. After the 50% relinquishment, the area will be reduced to approximately 18,000 hectares.
The Block is accessible by secondary roads in good condition as well as by rivers, which for some indigenous communities are the main way of transport. It is possible to access the block by road from Bogota, Colombia's capital, situated some 1,000 km away and by airplane. Some pipelines pass close to the Block and production can be easily transported by truck to the pipeline receiving stations located no more than 50 km away. There is also oil infrastructure in neighboring blocks which the Company has the potential to access.
The terrain is somewhat hilly with abundant rain forest. There are some fluvial streams rivers. The climate is warm (approximately 30 degrees Celsius on average), with high humidity and frequent heavy rainfall.
Regional Geology
The Putumayo Basin is part of a series of north-south Andean foreland basins, which was formed on the eastern side of the Andes Mountains. The basin is a northern extension of the Oriente Basin in Ecuador and the Maranon Basin in Peru. The Putumayo Basin formed during the late Triassic early Jurassic cordillerean rifting and associated metamorphism. Deposition began in the early Cretaceous with the deposition of clastic fluvial sediments of the Caballos Formation deposited, unconformably on the Jurassic rocks. The Putumayo Basin dips gently to the west where the sediments reach a thickness greater than 10,000 meters. The basin underwent several tectonic events including a period of compression resulting in thrust faulting and strike-slip fault movement in the late Cretaceous, early Tertiary, which resulted in the development of a network of low relief north trending basement fault blocks.
Mirto Field Geology
Geologically, the Maranta Block is located in the Putumayo Basin, and within the regional framework it is divided into two tectonic provinces.
Lower Platform: Corresponds to the zone over which the Umbría-1, Umbría-2, El Tigre-1 wells and fields such as Yurilla, Alborada, Mansoya, Cemcella, among others are located. This zone is mainly characterized by being a deep zone with well total depth between 10,300 and 11,300 ft. and faults at the Cretaceous level with small displacement jumps.
Middle Depocentre: Corresponds to the north sector of the block, within which are found the structures associated to the Toroyaco, Linda, Mary, Costayaco and Juanambú fields. The main characteristic of this province is the presence of structural type traps, generated by inverse faults, which denote a high relief in respect to the deepening zone observed toward the sector of the Umbria-1 well.
In the case of the Maranta Block, for the Low Platform sector, the traps are mainly associated to low relief structures to the hanging block of normal faults at the Cretaceous level with small displacement jumps and dipping closes in term of directions. For the North Sector (Middle Depocentre), the structures are mainly associated to the neighboring and hanging blocks of the inverse faults, which denote high relief. Other traps with potential within the block are those of a stratigraphic type (pinch-outs, carbonate build-ups).
The Caballos Formation is the main target in the basin's foothills, while the "T,” "U" and "N" sandstones of the Villeta Formation, constitute the main bearing rocks in the foreland area.
The sandstones of the Caballos Formation reach a total thickness of 200 to 250 feet and net sands between 80 and 150 feet. The range of porosities varies between 8% and 12%. The T sandstones of the Villeta Formation have a net oil-bearing thickness of approximately 40 feet, porosities ranging between 10 and 15%. The U Interval sandstones have a 25 foot net oil bearing thickness, porosity between 13% and 16%. The N sand Interval has a 10 to 15 foot net oil bearing thickness and porosity between 12% and 15%.
The Orito, Nancy Burdine Maxine fields are toward the South-Western sector of the block; production is present in the Cemcella, Mansota and Yurilla fields toward the South-Eastern sector; finally, the Costayaco, Juanambú, Linda, Mary and Toroyaco fields are at the northern limit.
The production from these fields is associated to the various sandy intervals (T, U and N) of the Villeta Formation and the Caballos Formation.
Gravities for oils from Cretaceous deposits vary between 15° and 40° API, with the highest from the Lower Cretaceous (Caballos Formation). Eocene gravity is 29 API.
The Maranta Block remains under explored, with only four wells having been drilled in the block; the Umbria-1, and Umbria-2 wells were drilled in October 2009. The Mirto Field is bounded on the west by a north-south reverse fault and on the east by a down dip water contact in the U reservoir sands.
The Cretaceous Villeta N and U sandstones are the productive oil reservoirs in the Mirto Field.
The gross N reservoir consists of inter-bedded white translucent, medium to fine grained, well sorted, rounded quartsoze sands, mudstones with glauconitic inclusions, siltstones, and minor carbonaceous clasts. In the Mirto-1 well, the gross thickness of the N reservoir is 34 feet, with only the top 8.5 feet assigned oil pay. The porosities range between 13% and 15%. The N pay sands have been perforated from 10,410-10,417 feet TVD and tested oil. The lowest known oil contact in the N reservoir was used for the volumetric calculation for the Villeta N reservoir oil.
The U sands are separated from the N reservoir by a thick 600 feet interval of marine shales and limestones. The U reservoir consists of quartzose sands, fine to medium grained, very light grey, moderately consolidated, well sorted and slightly calcareous with very low shale content.
Occasionally thin glauconitic intervals are present and rare pyretic, carbonaceous inclusions as well. The U sands have average porosities varying from 13.8% to 17.5%, with a maximum porosity of 24%. Net oil pay of 35.5 feet was assigned to U reservoir in the Mirto-1 well. An oil water contact was identified at 11,074.85 feet TVD (-10,005.85 feet TVDSS (True Vertical Depth Sub Sea)). The U sands are present and have similar thickness in all the wells drilled in the area and therefore likely have good lateral continuity.
Seismic Coverage
The Maranta Block has over 600 km of pre-existing 2D seismic acquired between the 1960s and the late 1980s by different companies and during different acquisition campaigns.
Emerald completed the first phase exploratory program for the Maranta Block by acquiring 71 km of new 2D seismic and acquiring 30 square kilometers of 3D seismic over the Mirto structure.
Emerald identified the Mirto prospect, namely the Mirto-1 well, as the first exploratory well in the Maranta Block. The Mirto-2 well is currently in production testing in the N sand, with an average during the testing period of 533 bopd of 15.64º API Gross (106 bopd net to LCTZ). The Maranta Block is adjacent to Gran Tierra's Chaza block and close to both the Orito and Santana crude oil receiving stations, allowing transportation by truck directly to either station (depending on going rates and capacity), and consequently tying into the pipeline to Colombia's Pacific Ocean port at Tumaco.
A new exploratory phase has been negotiated with ANH in two phases of two years each, acquiring 120 km, 2D seismic or to drill a new exploratory well. After this phase is completed, Emerald and we will relinquish 50% of the Maranta Block.
We expect that our capital commitments to Emerald will be approximately $4.85 million in 2012 to cover new wells, production facilities and seismic acquisition in the Block.
Legal and Environmental Licenses
The MADS requires the establishment of an environmental plan to monitor the compliance of the environmental regulations during all the phases of the project. For the Maranta Block an Environmental Impact Study was filed and approved by the MADS and for Mirto 1 and Mirto 2 wells an Environmental Management Plan was filed and approved by the MADS. In addition, for the operation of both fields a series of permits were required, which were approved through two licenses by the MADS.
Mirto is under production through a long-term test authorized by the Colombian Ministry of Mines granted to Emerald, who is the field operator. This test will be used to conduct well pressure testing and to gather other information that will be used to define the potential of this reservoir and to optimize production rates.
Phase 3 of the initial exploration program was completed in the year 2010 with the drilling of the Mirto-2 well. Emerald and the Company have together complied with the exploration obligations on this block in accordance with the contract signed with the ANH. Under the contract terms and conditions, and after completion of this phase, both the Company and Emerald are required to relinquish 50% of the area of the block, as selected by both parties, and there is the option to continue exploration activities in the remaining 50% of the area by committing to additional exploration activities with the ANH, such as new seismic acquisition or drilling a new exploration well. This is a usual procedure and it is in accordance with the standard contract with the ANH. Emerald has identified the 50% area to be relinquished and has received approval from the ANH, which was dated April 11, 2011, on the additional exploration program and has signed the amendment to the contract.
Phase 1 of the subsequent exploratory program requires both Emerald and La Cortez to comply with the acquisition of 120 km of 2D seismic or the drilling of an exploration well on or before August 2012, with Phase 2 of the subsequent exploratory program requiring another acquisition of 120 km of 2D seismic or the drilling of an exploratory well on or before August 2014. Emerald and the Company are in the final stages of determining the activity plan for the year 2012, which is expected to include drilling of at least one more exploration well. Emerald is proposing to the ANH the acceptance of the Agapanto-1 well to be drilled in the first half of 2012 in satisfaction of the commitments under the first phase of the subsequent exploratory program in the Maranta block. This exploratory well is being targeted to the Villeta formation N, U, and T sands, which are producing areas within the Mirto field. In addition to this well, Emerald and the Company are looking at various options, such as running additional seismic and conducting a workover in an existing old well, Umbria-1, to test the potential of the Villeta sandstones. These activities are contingent to the environmental license, a process that is being handled by Emerald, the operator.
On March 22, 2012, Emerald submitted to the ANH the report of the evaluation program and declaration of commerciality of the Mirto field. It is pending ANH approval.
Rio de Oro and Puerto Barco
Location
The Rio de Oro and Puerto Barco exploration and production contracts are located in the Catatumbo Basin in eastern Colombia. These fields initiated production about 50 years ago and produced good quality oil, mainly from the Uribante group (Tibu, Aguardiente and Mercedes cretaceous formations). Most of the production was obtained from the Rio de Oro field. The contracts cover an area of 2,262 hectares in Rio de Oro and 2,406 hectares in Puerto Barco. The contract started in December 2003 and will expire in December 2013.
Access to these fields is through a secondary road from Cucuta and then to the towns Tibu and La Gabarra. From La Gabarra there is a road that connects both fields. However, extensive reconstruction work has to be executed in order to upgrade these roads. It is also possible to access the fields from an existing road in Venezuela; however, doing so would require the Company to obtain special permits from the Venezuelan government.
The climate is tropical with an average temperature of approximately 30 to 35 degrees celsius. The topography is mainly composed of plains and hills. The most important fluvial stream is the Catatumbo River, which is also situated along the border with Venezuela. This river could be used as an alternative transport route to reach the Rio de Oro field.
There is a pipeline that takes the production from the existing Ecopetrol fields at Tibu town to the Barracabermeja refinery in the middle of the country. This pipeline has spare pumping capacity, and it was historically used to pump the production from these fields to the market. However, the production must first be transported 65 km by truck from the field to the receiving station at the Rio Zulia pipeline.
Regional Geology
The Catatumbo Basin is a southwest extension of the Maracaibo Basin. It is a foreland basin type with an area of 7,350 km2 / 1,800,000 acres with 11 oil fields discovered. Its northern and eastern limits are the geographic border with Venezuela; to the south the limit is with outcropping of Cretaceous rocks of the Eastern Cordillera, and to the west the igneous and metamorphic rocks of the Santander massif.
Oil reservoirs in Cenozoic and Cretaceous sandstones and limestones are trapped in faulted anticlines. The Cretaceous and Cenozoic formatuins in this basin represent two distinct tectonic and sedimentary settings. Cretaceous rocks are marine sandstones, shales and limestone that represent deposition in a broad shallow sea that extended across northern Venezuela and continued south through Colombia. Cenozoic rocks are fluvial-deltaic shales and sandstones that were deposited in a foreland basin. Overall, reservoir porosity is best developed in Paleogene sandstones. Traps are wrench controlled, faulted anticlines that resulted from strike-slip convergence.
Oil was sourced from the upper Cretaceous La Luna formation and the lower Cretaceous Uribante Group. Oil generation began in the Late Eocene and continues through today. Seventy percent of the reserves discovered in thia area between 1920 and 1950 and were based on surface exploration (mapping of surface anticlines.).
Most of the remaining hydrocarbon potential in this basin occurs in en-echelon folds associated with the regional left-lateral Chinácota fault system on the western flank of the basin, referred to as the "Catatumbo Flexure" in the northern portion of the basin.
The Catatumbo Basin has been one of the most prolific basins in the country. The main oil fields in the basin are the Rio de Oro, Tibú - Socuavo, Carbonera, Sardinata, Rio Zulia, Petrolea and Puerto Barco. The Catatumbo Basin is a moderately explored basin, which has produced more than 450 million barrels of oil and 500 billion cubic feet of gas since 1920.
When formal exploration work began in 1931, transportation facilities were confined to a mule trail from Puerto Villamizar, on the Cucuta railway, to Petrolea and wet-season launch and barge navigation to Puerto Reyes and Puerto Barco on the Catatumbo River system. A road from the railway to the Petrolea valley was completed in 1938.
The Rio de Oro anticline is the dominant structure in the block. It is located in the easternmost foothills of the Sierra de Perija. It trends slightly east of north and extends from the Rio Catatumbo to the Rio de Oro and some 20 kilometers northward into Venezuela. It is a narrow faulted highly asymmetrical anticline with a nearly vertical east flank and a comparatively gentle west flank. Surface data show two structural highs on the Colombian portion of the anticline, one west of Puerto Barco and the other 4 kilometers south of the Rio de Oro. Sandstones of the Barco formation are exposed near the apex of each high.
There are numerous oil and gas seeps along the crest of the anticline. The structural high west of Puerto Barco was tested by two wells, which drilled into the upper part of the Uribante formation without encountering production, although there were many oil shows in both Tertiary and Cretaceous formations. Eleven wells, nine of which were productive, have been drilled on the Colombian portion of the northern high. Production has been obtained from the Catatumbo formation and from the Rio de Oro member of the Mito Juan formation.
Field Geology
The first well on the concession, Rio de Oro 1, was drilled on the crest of the Rio de Oro anticline in 1920 by Doherty interests, offsetting a small producer drilled on the Venezuelan side of the border in 1915 by the Colon Development Company. An oil-bearing sandstone encountered in the Barco formation at 137 meters flowed strongly but soon dropped off to 50 BOPD and was cased off.
The Rio de Oro 2 and Rio de Oro 3 wells, located on the structural high west of Puerto Barco, were drilled by the Colombian Petroleum Company from April 1935 to October 1937. Both penetrated the upper part of the Uribante formation to total depths of 2048 and 1926 meters respectively, without encountering production. Neither well tested the Tibu formation. No other wells have been drilled on the southern high of the anticline.
The Rio de Oro 4, located on the crest of the northern high of the anticline was completed in 1937 at a depth of 192 meters, in the top of the Mito Juan formation. It showed a potential of 130 BOPD on a half-inch choke from sandstone in the Catatumbo formation.
Since completion of the Rio de Oro 4 well, nine wells have been drilled on the northern high, eight of which were productive. The average depth is 430 meters. Two productive zones in the Catatumbo formation and one in the uppermost Mito Juan formation have been developed. The lower Cretaceous has not been tested. Production is obtained from fine-grained argillaceous sandstones and siltstones, the intergranular permeability of which is so low as to likely require fracturing to stimulate production... Effective thickness of sandstones in the productive zones ranges from 3 to 12 meters.
The productive area of the most extensive zone is approximately 170 hectares (42,000 acres). The average daily potential on a quarter-inch choke is 260 barrels per well with an average gas-oil ratio of 340. The gravity of the oil ranges from 32° to 40° API. The field has no pipeline connection, so would require transportation to nearby failities.
In the Rio de Oro contract, originally signed between Ecopetrol and private parties other than La Cortez, a total of 44 wells have been drilled representing cumulative production of 11 million barrels of oil. In Puerto Barco, four wells have been drilled with cumulative production of 0.8 million barrels of oil.
Seismic Coverage
The prior exploration and development activities were made without seismic information, using only surface geology and wells data. The seismic campaigns were undertaken in 1976 by Ecopetrol, covering all of the regional production and exploration area, with approximately 200 km of 2D seismic.
Legal and Environmental Licenses
The MADS requires the establishment of an environmental plan to monitor the compliance of the environmental regulations during all the phases of the project. For the Puerto Barco field an Environmental Management Plan was filed and approved by the MADS. For Rio de Oro field an Environmental Management Plan was filed and it is pending a Certificate from the Ministry of Interior to continue the licensing process with the MADS. In addition, for the reactivation of the Puerto Barco and Rio de Oro fields and to be in compliance with the local authorities of Norte de Santander where the projects are located, the Local Environmental Corporation (“CORPONOR”) required the establishment of a series of permits, including a water concession permit, a dumping permit, and an air emissions permit, all of which are in force for Puerto Barco and Rio de Oro fields.
In the Rio de Oro field, the remediation of certain historical environmental conditions created prior to our acquisition will be the responsibility of the previous operators. In addition to the contractual responsibility of the previous operators for these liabilities, Avante has agreed in the SPA to indemnify us for 50% of any environmental losses we incur, up to a maximum of $2.5 million.
Social and Other Agreements
On October 10 2008, by certification of the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry acknowledged the presence of Ishtoda and Beboquira Barrancas indigenous communities in areas not entitled in the jurisdiction of Tibu, Norte de Santander (outside of the indigenous territory). However, the Ministry concluded that the indigenous community is located in the municipality of Tibu and therefore must be certified by the Incoder (Instituto Colombiano para el Desarrollo Rural).
Also On October 10, 2008, the Interior Ministry stated that it does not consider the Rio de Oro field to include the presence of indigenous communities. This certification is in the process of being renewed.
On November 19, 2008, by certification of the National Rural Land Unit ("UNAT"), the authority established that according to the Geographic Information Systems coordinates the project in Rio de Oro field does not cross or overlap with territory legally entitled to indigenous nor Afro-Colombian communities.
Under the terms of the SPA, we and Avante have also agreed to pursue certain opportunities in the Catatumbo area on a joint venture basis. If we enter into such a joint venture with Avante, then we would own 70% of the joint venture and commit to pay 70% of the geological and geophysical costs, and Avante would own 30% of the joint venture and commit to pay 30% of the geological and geophysical costs, up to a maximum commitment by Avante of $1,500,000. If the total costs of the venture exceed $5,000,000, then Avante may elect either (a) not to pay any additional costs of the venture and incur dilution of its ownership percent from future payments by us, (b) to continue to pay additional costs of the venture at 30% or (c) to pay a larger proportion of the costs of the venture, in which case Avante’s ownership percent would be increased in proportion to the percentage of total venture costs paid by each party, up to a maximum ownership interest for Avante of 50%.
Operations
La Cortez, through its subsidiary Avante Colombia Inc., re-activated certain operating activities in the Puerto Barco Field in different areas. Social activities, such as meetings with the communities to inform about the Company’s plans and activities, have been conducted to ensure the different communities’ support to re-start operations in the field. On August 15, 2011, Phase I (La Gabarra town to the Puerto Barco Field / Timbas Station) road upgrades were initiated. However, due to very heavy rains (a typical rainy season in Colombia) it was impossible to continue doing road maintenance. Despite these problems, additional field information was gathered along with a technical inspection of the wells and production facilities. Certain technical contractors including General Electric, Fepco, SAR Energy and others visited the field to conduct selected tests and to assess the condition of certain wells (surface and subsurface) and facilities. The presence of these companies in this area demonstrates to Ecopetrol the results of the social work of the Company and the ability to conduct operation in critical areas. Based on the inspections, wellhead surface sections of the PB-2K well were replaced, and a plan was defined to test the PB-2K and PB-3K wells. However, due to road conditions it was not possible to install facilities to conduct a proper test in these two wells. Despite this situation, the Company conducted a short test in the PB-2K, successfully inducing this well in a manner sufficient to produce on natural flow and secure a sample. Oil characterization from the sample demonstrated that Puerto Barco Field production from the Aguardiente formation corresponds to high quality oil of 43.3 ⁰API with very low content of sulphur, salt and heavy metals.
The Company continues to be actively engaged with Ecopetrol regarding opportunities to amend the existing contract terms, though the final outcome of such discussions remains unknown at this point. We believe that the first well intervention in Puerto Barco-2 and Puerto Barco-3 wells has had made a favorable impression on Ecopetrol. A proposal for the modification of the existing contracts in Puerto Barco and Rio de Oro plus a new exploration and productin contract for the entire Rio de Oro block was presented to Ecopetrol on February 1, 2012. We anticipate a reply from Ecopetrol regarding our proposal early in the second quarter of 2012.
See Part I, “Business,” for information regarding contracts relevant to each block and the activities we have carried out on the Putumayo 4, Maranta, Rio de Oro and Puerto Barco blocks.
ITEM 3.