ITEM 2.
PROPERTIES
Executive Offices
Our corporate headquarters is located at Calle 67 #7-35, Oficina 409, Bogotá, Colombia. At this location we rent approximately 3,000 square feet of office space under a three-year lease. We have leased a house in the town of Tibu , where some equipment for the Puerto Barco and Rio de Oro fields is kept, as well as providing accommodation to our contractors and employees.
Reserves
The proved oil and natural gas reserves of La Cortez Energy have been estimated by an independent petroleum engineer, Ryder Scott Company (“Ryder Scott”), as of December 31, 2010. These reserve estimates have been prepared in compliance with the Securities and Exchange Commission’s rules and accounting standards based on the 12-month un-weighted first-day-of-the-month average price for December 31, 2010. The estimate of the Company’s proved reserves as of December 31, 2010 has been prepared and presented under new SEC rules and accounting standards. These new rules and standards are effective for fiscal years ending on or after December 31, 2009, and require SEC reporting companies to prepare their reserve estimates using revised reserve definitions and revised pricing based on 12-month un-weighted first-day-of-the-month average pricing. No natural gas volumes produced were included in the estimation as this gas will be used for internal consumption or will be flared.
The reserves included were estimated using deterministic methods and presented as incremental quantities. Under the deterministic incremental approach, discrete quantities of reserves are estimated and assigned separately as proved, probable or possible based on their individual level of uncertainty. Because of the differences in uncertainty, caution should be exercised when aggregating quantities of oil and gas from different reserves categories. Furthermore, the reserves and income quantities attributable to the different reserve categories that are included have not been adjusted to reflect these varying degrees of risk associated with them and thus are not comparable.
The estimation of reserves involves two distinct determinations. The first determination results in the estimation of the quantities of recoverable oil and gas, and the second determination results in the estimation of the uncertainty associated with those estimated quantities in accordance with the definitions set forth by Item 4 - 10(a) of Regulation S-X. The process of estimating the quantities of recoverable oil and gas reserves relies on the use of certain generally accepted analytical procedures. These analytical procedures fall into three broad categories or methods: (1) performance-based methods, (2) volumetric-based methods and (3) analogy. These methods may be used singularly or in combination by the reserve evaluator in the process of estimating the quantities of reserves. Reserve evaluators must select the method or combination of methods that in their professional judgment is most appropriate given the nature and amount of reliable geoscience and engineering data available at the time of the estimate, the established or anticipated performance characteristics of the reservoir being evaluated and the stage of development or producing maturity of the property.
The proved and probable developed non-producing and undeveloped reserves included were estimated by the volumetric method. The volumetric analysis utilized pertinent well and seismic data furnished to Ryder Scott by La Cortez Energy that were available through December 31, 2010. The data utilized from the wells and seismic data incorporated into our volumetric analysis were considered sufficient for the purpose thereof.
All of the Company’s reserves are located in Colombia, primarily in the Putumayo basin.
Summary of the Company’s interest in the Oil and Gas Reserves as of Fiscal-Year End Based on Average Fiscal-Year Prices As of December 31, 2010
An analysis of the change in estimated quantities of oil and natural gas reserves is shown below:
Description of Properties
Colombia
Source: Google Earth
Maranta and Putumayo 4 Blocks
Source: La Cortez Energy, Inc.
Putumayo 4
On December 22, 2008, we entered into the MOU with Petronorte that entitles us to a 50% net working interest in the Putumayo 4 Block. We executed the joint operating agreement with Petronorte relating to the Putumayo 4 Block on October 14, 2009, effective retroactively to February 23, 2009.
General Description
The Putumayo 4 Block covers an area of 126,845 acres (51,333 hectares) located in the Putumayo Basin in southern Colombia and has over 400 km of pre-existing 2D seismic through which Petronorte has identified promising leads.
There are four existing wells in the Putumayo 4 Block that date back to the 1970’s. Even though information is scarce, these wells intended to reach the Caballos formation and in doing so, oil shows were recorded from the Villeta formation, our primary objective. Furthermore, neighboring and close fields, including Nancy-Burdine-Maxine, Costayaco and Orito, have been prolific hydrocarbon producers, partially affirming our reserve expectations in the block.
Location
The Putumayo-4 block is located in the southwest part of Colombia, approximately 1,000 km from Bogotá, Colombia's capital city. It covers an extension of 51,333 hectares (126,847 acres), is located in the Putumayo basin and has over 1,000 km of pre-existing 2D seismic through which La Cortez Energy and Petronorte have identified promising leads.
The Block can be accessed by secondary roads, which are in good condition, as well as by rivers, which for some indigenous communities are the primary means of transport. The Block is intersected by the Puerto Asis - Orito and Puerto Asis - Mocoa roads. It is also possible to access the Block by airplane. The terrain is somewhat hilly with abundant rainforest.
There are some fluvial streams and rivers. The climate is warm (approximately 30 degrees Celsius on average), high humidity and receives frequent, heavy rainfall.
The Transandean pipeline, which runs parallel to the Puerto Asis - Orito road, has oil transport capacity of over 100,000 barrels per day. This pipeline runs from the SurOriente Block and takes production to the port of Tumaco on the Pacific Ocean. In addition there is oil infrastructure in neighboring blocks.
Regional Geology
The Putumayo basin is located in southwest Colombia and is a Foreland basin type. It has 19 oil and gas field discoveries with reserves of 365 million barrels of oil and reserves of 305 billion cubic feet of gas. The Caguán-Putumayo Basin is the northern extension of the Oriente Basin of Ecuador. This basin has an extension of about 104,000 square kilometers.
In this area, exploration activities started in 1948 by Texaco. In 1963 Texaco discovered the major Orito oil field with reserves of approximately 250 million barrels of oil. The existence of a petroliferous system at work is documented by the several oil fields discovered in the basin. Oil fields in the basin are related to structural traps, mainly contractional fault-related folds, and reverse faulting. Additional oil reserves could be found in significant quantities trapped in sub-basement traps, wrench related anticlines, and drapes over basement highs and subtle stratigraphic traps at the eastern flank of the basin. Presence of these traps suggests that large parts of the basin still have significant exploration potential.
The boundaries of this basin are: the Eastern Cordillera foothills thrust system to the northwest; the Macarena structural high to the northeast; the Ecuadorian and Peruvian international border to the south and a structural high to the east, which includes the Serranía de Chiribiquete.
The principal reservoir in the basin is the cretaceous sandstones of the Caballos Formation with an average thickness of 300 ft, with porosities range from 10% to 16% and with an average permeability of 50 md. The secondary reservoirs are found in sandstones of the Villeta Formation and Pepino conglomerates.
Field Geology
No oil fields have been discovered in the block. The analogous and nearest oil fields are Nancy and Burdine Fields. These fields have commercial production from the Villeta Formation, N and U sands respectively. Both fields were discovered in the 1970s.
Four exploration wells have been drilled in this block in the 1970s, called Susan-1, Helen-1, Evelin and Setuko-1. These wells were drilled having as the main objective, the Caballos formation, which is not productive in this part of the basin. However, some of the wells presented oil shows in the sandstones of the Villeta formation, which now is the main exploratory objective.
Seismic Coverage
The Putumayo-4 Block has over 1,200 km of pre-existing 2D seismic acquired between the 1960’s and the 1980’s by different companies and during different acquisition campaigns. La Cortez and Petronorte have reprocessed all the seismic information acquired that confirmed our initial evaluation of several potential leads.
Legal and Environmental Licenses
The Ministry of Environment, Housing and Territorial Development (hereinafter “MAVDT) requires the establishment of an environmental plan to monitor the compliance of the environmental regulations during all the phases of the project. During the next semester the operator will continue developing two licenses, which will be submitted to the MAVDT for their approval. In addition for the seismic phase and to be in compliance with the local authorities of Putumayo where the project is located, the Local Environmental Corporation (“CORPOAMAZONIA”) requires the establishment of a permit for the water use. This permit is in process with the CORPOAMAZONIA.
Infrastructure in the Putumayo region has been rapidly improving. Several important discoveries, including one competitor’s discovery in Costayaco, have resulted in an influx of companies into the region, resulting in a reduction in oil services fees and improving security in the area. Specifically, the Putumayo 4 Block is located near the Orito field, run by Ecopetrol, which is a receiving station for a pipeline to the port Tumaco on the Colombian Pacific. Transportation of potential crude production from the Putumayo 4 Block could be trucked easily to Orito through the paved roads in the area.
Social and Other Agreements
In December 2009, a socio-cultural analysis of the social and territorial context of the block was completed, with the participation and support from local government representatives and ethnic communities’ leaders.
The study concluded that there where 22 ethnic communities in and nearby the exploration area.
With this information, the Company sent a request to the Ministry of Interior and Justice to confirm the presence or not of ethnic communities that would be directly affected by the project.
In July 2010, the Ministry of Interior and Justice officially established that the following seven communities were located in the Block:
MUNICIPALITY
ETHNIC COMMUNITY
DENOMINATION
Puerto Caicedo
Awá Indigenous Community
Las Vegas Villa Unión San Andrés
Versabal Afro Community
Versabal
Orito
Los Andes Afro Community
Los Andes
Siona Indigenous Community
Ten Të Yä
Villarbolense Afro Community
Villarbolense
Valle del Guamúez
Cofán Indigenous Community
Villanueva
Cofán Indigenous Community
Bocana del Luzón
In September 2010, the pre-consultation process in order to establish agreements with the seven communities began.
Current status of the Pre Consult Process with the 7 communities:
Pre Consult Stage
Ethnic Community
1. Project introduction to the communities
· Bocana del Luzón
· Villanueva
2. Installation and opening
3. Social and environmental impacts identification
· Las Vegas Villa Unión San Andrés
· Ten Të Yä
· Villarbolense
4. Pre-deal
· Versabal
· Los Andes
5. Negotiation and deal definition
6. Deal Follow-up
It is to be expected that the pre-consultation process with all seven communities shall be finished by July 2011.
The Putumayo 4 Block
Source: La Cortez Energy, Inc.
Maranta
General Description
On February 6, 2009, La Cortez Colombia entered into the Farm-In Agreement with Emerald for a 20% Participating Interest in the Maranta Block in the Putumayo Basin in Southwest Colombia. We executed the joint operating agreement with Emerald relating to the Maranta Block on February 4, 2010. The Maranta Block is adjacent to the recent 20 million barrel proven discovery of the Costayaco field made by Gran Tierra Energy, Inc. (AMEX: GTE).
Emerald was awarded the Maranta Block E&P contract by the ANH on September 12, 2006. The E&P contract granted Emerald a 100% working interest in the Maranta Block for an exploration period of up to six years with an initial production period of up to 24 years. The Maranta Block is adjacent to nearby producing oil fields and close to recent discoveries that have tested oil up to 7,000 barrels per day. Emerald identified a number of prospects and leads at an estimated depth of some 11,000 ft from the existing seismic data, each with an unrisked prospective resource potential estimated to be between 5 and 15 million barrels.
The Umbria #1 well was drilled in the Maranta Block in 1967 and encountered oil in the Villeta formation. There may also be potential to re-enter this well to further test the formation productivity2.
2. Source: Emerald Energy Plc
The Maranta Block
Source: Emerald Energy Plc., La Cortez Energy, Inc.
Location
The Maranta block covers an area of 36,608 hectares (90,459 acres) in the foreland of the Putumayo Basin, southern Colombia and has over 600 km of pre-existing 2D seismic through which we and Emerald have identified some leads.
The Block is accessible by secondary roads in good condition as well as by rivers, which for some indigenous communities are the main way of transport. It is possible to access the block by road from Bogota, Colombia's capital, situated some 1,000 km away and by airplane. Some pipelines pass close to the Block and production can be easily transported by truck to the pipeline receiving stations located no more than 50 km away. There is also oil infrastructure in neighboring blocks which the Company has the potential to access.
The terrain is somewhat hilly with abundant rain forest. There are some fluvial streams rivers. The climate is warm (approximately 30 degrees Celsius on average), high humidity and frequent heavy rainfall.
Regional Geology
The Putumayo Basin is part of a series of north-south Andean foreland basins, which was formed on the eastern side of the Andes Mountains. The basin is a northern extension of the Oriente Basin in Ecuador and the Maranon Basin in Peru. The Putumayo Basin formed during the late Triassic early Jurassic cordillerean rifting and associated metamorphism. Deposition began in the early Cretaceous with the deposition of clastic fluvial sediments of the Caballos Formation deposited, unconformably on the Jurassic rocks. The Putumayo Basin dips gently to the west where the sediments reach a thickness greater than 10,000 meters. The basin underwent several tectonic events including a period of compression resulting in thrust faulting and strike-slip fault movement in the late Cretaceous, early Tertiary, which resulted in the development of a network of low relief north trending basement fault blocks.
The Mirto field is located adjacent to the Costayaco Oilfield, which produced 13 million cumulative barrels from 2007 through 2010 (source: Acipet Production Report), in which the Cretaceous Caballos and the Villeta Formations are the main producers.
Mirto Field Geology
Geologically, the Maranta Block is located in the Putumayo Basin, and within the regional framework it is divided into two tectonic provinces.
Lower Platform: Corresponds to the zone over which the Umbría-1, Umbría-2, El Tigre-1 wells and fields such as Yurilla, Alborada, Mansoya, Cemcella, among others are located. This zone is mainly characterized by being a deep zone with well total depth between 10,300 and 11,300 ft. and faults at the Cretaceous level with small displacement jumps.
Middle Depocentre: Corresponds to the north sector of the block, within which are found the structures associated to the Toroyaco, Linda, Mary, Costayaco and Juanambú fields. The main characteristic of this province is the presence of structural type traps, generated by inverse faults, which denote a high relief in respect to the deepening zone observed toward the sector of the Umbria-1 well.
In the case of the Maranta Block, for the Low Platform sector, the traps are mainly associated to low relief structures to the hanging block of normal faults at the Cretaceous level with small displacement jumps and dipping closes in term of directions. For the North Sector (Middle Depocentre), the structures are mainly associated to the neighboring and hanging blocks of the inverse faults, which denote high relief. Other traps with potential within the block are those of a stratigraphic type (pinch-outs, carbonate build-ups).
The Caballos Formation is the main target in the basin's foothills, while the "T,” "U" and "N" sandstones of the Villeta Formation, constitute the main bearing rocks in the foreland area.
The sandstones of the Caballos Formation reach a total thickness of 200 to 250 feet and net sands between 80 and 150 feet. The range of porosities varies between 8 and 12%. The "T" sandstones of the Villeta Formation have a net oil-bearing thickness of approximately 40 feet, porosities ranging between 10 and 15%. The "U" Interval sandstones have a 25 foot net oil bearing thickness, porosity between 13% and 16%. The "N" sand Interval has a 10 to 15 foot net oil bearing thickness and porosity between 12% and 15%.
The Orito, Nancy Burdine Maxine fields are toward the South-Western sector of the block; production is present in the Cemcella, Mansota and Yurilla fields toward the South-Eastern sector; finally, the Costayaco, Juanambú, Linda, Mary and Toroyaco fields are at the Northern limit.
The production from these fields is associated to the various sandy intervals (T, U and N) of the Villeta Formation and the Caballos Formation.
Gravities for oils from Cretaceous deposits vary between 15° and 40° API, with the highest from the Lower Cretaceous (Caballos Formation). Eocene gravity is 29 API.
The Maranta Block remains under explored, with only four wells having been drilled in the block; the Umbria-1, and Umbria-2 wells were drilled in October 2009. The Mirto Oil Field is bounded on the west by a north-south reverse fault and on the east by a down dip water contact in the U reservoir sands.
The Cretaceous Villeta N and U sandstones are the productive oil reservoirs in the Mirto Field.
The gross N reservoir consists of inter-bedded white translucent, medium to fine grained, well sorted, rounded quartoze sands, mudstones with glauconitic inclusions, siltstones, and minor carbonaceous clasts. In Mirto-1 well, the gross thickness of the N reservoir is 34 feet with only the top of 8.5 feet assigned oil pay. The porosities range between 13% and 15%. The N pay sands have been perforated from 10,410-10,417 feet TVD and tested oil. The lowest know oil contact in the N reservoir was used for the volumetric calculation for the Villeta N reservoir.
The U sands are separated from the N reservoir by a thick 600 feet interval of marine shales and limestones. The U reservoir consists of quartoze sands, fine to medium grained, very light grey, moderately consolidated, well sorted and slightly calcareous with very low shale content.
Occasionally thin glauconitic intervals are present and rare pyretic, carbonaceous inclusions as well. The U sands have average porosities varying from 13.8% to 17.5%, with a maximum of 24%. Net oil pay of 35.5 feet was assigned to U reservoir in the Mirto-1 well. An oil water contact was identified at 11,074.85 feet TVD (-10,005.85 feet TVDSS).
The U sands are present and have similar thickness in all the wells drilled in the area and therefore likely have good lateral continuity.
Seismic Coverage
The Maranta block has over 600 km of pre-existing 2D seismic acquired between the 1960s and the late 1980s by different companies and during different acquisition campaigns.
Emerald completed the first phase exploratory program for the Maranta Block by acquiring 71 km of new 2D seismic and acquiring 30 square kilometers of 3D seismic over the Mirto structure.
Emerald has identified the Mirto prospect, namely the Mirto-1 well, as the first exploratory well in the Maranta Block. The Mirto-2 well is currently in production testing in the N sand with an average during the testing period of 533 BOPD of 15.64º API Gross (106 BOPD net to LCTZ). The Maranta Block is adjacent to Gran Tierra's Chaza block and close to both the Orito and Santana crude oil receiving stations, allowing transportation by truck directly to either station (depending on going rates and capacity), and consequently tying into the pipeline to Colombia's Pacific Ocean port at Tumaco.
A new exploratory phase is under negotiation with ANH, to maintain a 50% of Maranta Block, in two phases of two years each, acquiring 120 Km, 2D seismic or to drill a new exploratory well.
We expect that our capital commitments to Emerald will be approximately $1.80 million in 2011 to cover well services and seismic acquisition in the Block.
Legal and Environmental Licenses
The MAVDT requires the establishment of an environmental plan to monitor the compliance of the environmental regulations during all the phases of the project. For the Maranta Block an Environmental Impact Study was filed and approved by the MAVDT and for Mirto 1 and Mirto 2 fields an Environmental Management Plan was filed and approved by the MAVDT. In addition, for the operation of both fields it was required a series of permits which were approved through two licenses by the MAVDT.
Social and Other Agreements
In January 2007, socio-cultural analysis about the social and territorial context of the block was completed with the participation and support from local government representatives and ethnic communities' leaders.
In January 2008, the Ministry of Interior acknowledged the presence of one ethnic community in the Block: the Afro Association of Puerto Umbria.
Immediately thereafter the Company began the pre-consultation process in order to establish agreements with the Afro community. The consultations ended in April 2008, with the agreement to buy a house in the town of Puerto Umbria for the Afro Association to establish its head office.
Rio de Oro and Puerto Barco
Location
The Rio de Oro and Puerto Barco exploration and production contracts are located in the Catatumbo basin in eastern Colombia. These fields initiated production about 50 years ago and produced good quality oil, mainly from the Uribante group (Tibu, Aguardiente and Mercedes cretaceous formations). Most of the production was obtained from the Rio de Oro field. The contracts cover an area of 2,262 hectares in Rio de Oro and 2,646 hectares in Puerto Barco. The contract started in December 2003 and will expire in December 2013.
Access to these fields is through a secondary road from Cucuta and then to the Tibu and La Gabarra towns. From La Gabarra there is a road that connects both fields. However, extensive reconstruction work has to be executed in order to upgrade these roads. It is also possible to access the fields from an existing road in Venezuela; however, doing so would require the Company to obtain special permits from the Venezuelan government.
The climate is tropical with an average temperature of approximately 30 to 35 degrees Celsius. The topography is mainly composed of plains and hills. The most important fluvial stream is the Catatumbo River, which is also situated along the border with Venezuela. This river could be used as an alternative transport route to reach the Rio de Oro field.
There is a pipeline that takes the production from the existing Ecopetrol fields at Tibu town to the Barracabermeja refinery in the middle of the country. This pipeline has spare pumping capacity and it was historically used to pump the production from these fields to the market. However, the production must first be transported 65 km by truck from the field to the receiving station at the Rio Zulia pipeline.
Regional Geology
The Catatumbo basin is a southwest extension of the Maracaibo Basin, a petroleum supergiant basin that accounts for about two percent (2%) of the hydrocarbon reserves of the world. It is a foreland basin type with an area of 7,350 km2 / 1,800,000 acres with 11 oil fields discovered. Its north and east limits are the geographic border with Venezuela; to the south the limit is with outcropping Cretaceous rocks of the Eastern Cordillera, and to the west the igneous and metamorphic rocks of the Santander massif.
Oil reservoirs in Cenozoic and Cretaceous sandstones and limestones are trapped in faulted anticlines. The Cretaceous and Cenozoic in this basin represent two distinct tectonic and sedimentary settings. Cretaceous rocks are marine sandstones, shales and limestone that represent deposition in a broad shallow sea that extended across northern Venezuela and continued south through Colombia. Cenozoic rocks are fluvial-deltaic shales and sandstones that were deposited in a foreland basin. Overall, reservoir porosity is best developed in Paleogene sandstones. Traps are wrench controlled, faulted anticlines that resulted from strike-slip convergence.
Oil was sourced from the upper Cretaceous La Luna Formation and the lower Cretaceous Uribante Group. Oil generation began in the Late Eocene and continues through today. Seventy percent of the reserves were discovered between 1920 and 1950 and were based on surface exploration (mapping of surface anticlines.).
Most of the remaining hydrocarbon potential in this basin occurs in en-echelon folds associated with the regional left-lateral Chinácota fault system on the western flank of the basin, referred to as the "Catatumbo Flexure" in the northern portion of the basin.
The Catatumbo Basin has been one of the most prolific basins in the country. The main oil fields in the basin are the Rio de Oro, Tibú - Socuavo, Carbonera, Sardinata, Rio Zulia, Petrolea and Puerto Barco. The Catatumbo Basin is a moderately explored basin, which has produced more than 450 million barrels of oil and 500 billion cubic feet of gas since 1920.
When formal exploration work began in 1931, transportation facilities were confined to a mule trail from Puerto Villamizar, on the Cucuta railway, to Petrolea and wet-season launch and barge navigation to Puerto Reyes and Puerto Barco on the Catatumbo River system. A road from the railway to the Petrolea valley was completed in 1938.
The Rio de Oro anticline is the dominant structure in the block. It is located in the easternmost foothills of the Sierra de Perija. It trends slightly east of north and extends from the Rio Catatumbo to the Rio de Oro and some 20 kilometers northward into Venezuela. It is a narrow faulted highly asymmetrical anticline with a nearly vertical east flank and a comparatively gentle west flank. Surface data show two structural highs on the Colombian portion of the anticline, one west of Puerto Barco and the other 4 kilometers south of the Rio de Oro. Sandstones of the Barco formation are exposed near the apex of each high.
There are numerous oil and gas seeps along the crest of the anticline. The structural high west of Puerto Barco was tested by two wells, which drilled into the upper part of the Uribante formation without encountering production, although there were many oil shows in both Tertiary and Cretaceous. Eleven wells, nine of which were productive, have been drilled on the Colombian portion of the northern high. Production has been obtained from the Catatumbo formation and from the Rio de Oro member of the Mito Juan formation.
Field Geology
The first well on the concession, Rio de Oro 1, was drilled on the crest of the Rio de Oro anticline in 1920 by Doherty interests, offsetting a small producer drilled on the Venezuelan side of the border in 1915 by the Colon Development Company. An oil-bearing sandstone encountered in the Barco formation at 137 meters flowed strongly but soon dropped off to 50 BOPD and was cased off.
The Rio de Oro 2 and Rio de Oro 3 wells, located on the structural high west of Puerto Barco, were drilled by the Colombian Petroleum Company from April 1935 to October 1937. Both penetrated the upper part of the Uribante formation to total depths of 2048 and 1926 meters respectively, without encountering production. Neither well tested the Tibu member. No other wells have been drilled on the southern high of the anticline.
The Rio de Oro 4, located on the crest of the northern high of the anticline was completed in 1937 at a depth of 192 meters, in the top of the Mito Juan formation. It showed a potential of 130 BOPD on a half-inch choke from sandstone in the Catatumbo formation.
Since completion of the Rio de Oro 4 well, nine wells have been drilled on the northern high, eight of which were productive. The average depth is 430 meters. Two productive zones in the Catatumbo formation and one in the uppermost Mito Juan formation have been developed. The lower Cretaceous has not been tested. Production is obtained from fine-grained argillaceous sandstones and siltstones, the intergranular permeability of which is so low that fracturing must be assigned major importance. Effective thickness of sandstones in the productive zones ranges from 3 to 12 meters.
The productive area of the most extensive zone is approximately 170 hectares (42,000 acres). The average daily potential on a quarter-inch choke is 260 barrels per well with an average gas-oil ratio of 340. The gravity of the oil ranges from 32° to 40° API. The field has no pipe.
In the Rio de Oro contract, a total of 44 wells were drilled, with cumulative production of 11 million barrels of oil. In Puerto Barco, four wells were drilled with cumulative production of 0.8 million barrels of oil.
Seismic Coverage
The exploration and development activities were made without seismic information, using only surface geology and wells data. The seismic campaigns were undertaken in 1976 by Ecopetrol, covering all of the regional production and exploration area, with approximately 200 km of 2D seismic.
Legal and Environmental Licenses
The MAVDT requires the establishment of an environmental plan to monitor the compliance of the environmental regulations during all the phases of the project. For the Puerto Barco field an Environmental Management Plan was filed and approved by the MAVDT. For Rio de Oro field an Environmental Management Plan was filed and it is pending a Certificate from the Ministry of Interior to continue the licensing process with the MAVDT. In addition, for the reactivation of Puerto Barco and Rio de Oro fields and to be in compliance with the local authorities of Norte de Santander where the projects are located, the Local Environmental Corporation (“CORPONOR”) required the establishment of a series of permits, including a water concession permit, a dumping permit, and an air emissions permit, all of which are in force for Puerto Barco and Rio de Oro fields.
Social and Other Agreements
On October 10 2008, by certification of the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry acknowledged the presence of Ishtoda and Beboquira Barrancas indigenous communities in areas not entitled (outside of the indigenous territory) in the jurisdiction of Tibu, Norte de Santander. However, the Ministry concluded that the indigenous community is located in the municipality of Tibu and therefore must be certified by the Incoder.
Also On October 10, 2008, the Interior Ministry stated that it does not consider the Rio de Oro field to include the presence of indigenous communities. This certification is in the process of being renewed.
On November 19, 2008, by certification of the National Rural Land Unit (hereinafter "UNAT"), the authority established that according to the GIS coordinates the project in Rio de Oro field does not cross or overlap with territory legally entitled to indigenous nor Afro-Colombian Communities.
See Part I, “Business,” for information regarding contracts relevant to each block and the activities we have carried out on the Putumayo 4, Maranta, Rio de Oro and Puerto Barco blocks.
ITEM 3.