ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
We are the beneficial owner of a 100% interest in the Alice Claim, located in NWT, Canada. Our interest in the Alice Claim is subject to a 1% net smelter return royalty in favor of the person from whom we acquired the claim, Mr. Max Braden. The royalty interest retained by Mr. Braden entitles him to receive 1% of any net revenue that might be paid to us by the purchaser of minerals produced form the Alice Claim. We do not have any ore body and have not generated any revenues from our operations.
Although we are in possession of a signed, registerable Transfer of Mineral Claim transferring all right, title and interest in the claim to us subject to the aforementioned 1% net smelter royalty, title remains recorded in the name of Max Braden. That is because the Government of Canada requires that mineral claims in the NWT be held in the (i) the name of a resident of the NWT, or (ii) by a company either incorporated in Canada or registered with the NWT ‘s Registrar of Corporations. At the present time, we do not wish to incur the costs associated with registering in the NWT. In addition, a Prospectors’ License, another prerequisite to our being able to register tile to the Alice Claim, entails additional expense, whereas there is no cost to us using Max Braden’s Prospectors License to hold the Alice Claim.
Beneficial ownership of the Alice Claim confers the rights to the minerals on the Alice Claim. We do not own the land itself since it is held in the name of the “Crown”, i.e. the Government of Canada.
The Alice Claim covers an area of approximately 200 acres. The current expiry date for the Alice Claim is May 24, 2008. To keep the property in good standing, such that the claim does not expire on the date indicated above we must (i) undertake exploration work to a value of not less than $357 ($420 CDN) on the Alice Claim before May 24, 2010, or (ii) in lieu of undertaking exploration work we may pay cash of approximately $357 ($420 CDN) to the Government of Canada. This is an annual obligation. Failure to do either, each year, will result in the Alice Claim reverting to the Government of Canada.
Particulars of the Alice Claim, our sole mineral property, together with issues we face in conducting exploration work on the property, follow.
Location and Access
The Alice Claim is located approximately 112 kilometers east of Yellowknife, NWT a town of approximately 20,000 and the capital of the NWT where all services necessary to the mining industry are available. The city is serviced by scheduled air services from Edmonton, Alberta and is linked to Alberta by all-weather highway. The Alice Claim is currently accessed by float or ski-equipped aircraft from Yellowknife. A winter road could easily link the property to the all-weather Ingraham Trial, a distance of about 48 kilometers.
The Alice property is located near the northern extremity of the northern interior climatic region and is characterized by a cold, fry sub-arctic climate. Mean January and July temperatures are below -30 C and from 10 to 15 respectively. The mean annual precipitation is approximately 200mm or less.
Topography of the region is subdued, with elevations ranging from 300 to 365 m. Lakes and low-lying swampy areas are common and comprise some 20% of the land surface. The major regional drainage is the Beaulieu River, which traverses the eastern part of the region from north to south and empties into Great Slave Lake east of Drybones Bay.
The Alice Claim is located well south of the tree line and is within the region of discontinuous permafrost. Vegetation consists of white and black spruce, white birch and locally abundant poplar, jack-pine and tamarack. The area is generally “swampy”. Access on the property for ground geophysical surveying and subsequent drilling of magnetic anomalies would be best accomplished from December to May when the lakes and swamps are frozen. Work such as prospecting, sampling and geological surveying must be carried out during the summer months. Drilling could also be carried out during the summer months as well.
No electrical power is required at this stage of exploration. Any electrical power that might be required in the foreseeable future could be supplied by gas powered portable generators.
Property Geology
The Alice Claim is underlain by volcanics of the Yellowknife group, consisting of greenstone flows. These greenstones are fine to coarse grained and the flows vary in thickness up to 175 feet separated in places by tuffs and often on the western side by prominent flow breccia horizons. The lavas take the form of massive, pillowed, schistose, ropey and foliated flows, though distinction is often difficult as pillows have mostly been obscured.
The tuffs that are contained in the flows vary in thickness up to 50 feet, and where sheared form sericite schist, whilst chlorite schist forms from the greenstones. The sericitc schist commonly weathers rusty brown due to the presence of pyrite and in some cases gold is associated with mineralization. A number of cherty bands and/or acid and/or acid dykes up to six feet thick occur on the property and often mineralization is associated with them. They may be rusty brown and have quartz veins nearby. These mineralized veins are to a large degree concentrated in a central zone running north/south through the property and the Alice zone, although associated with sheared tuff, lies within this larger area.
Acid and intermediate tuffs occur on the western edge of the greenstone whilst on the eastern side the pyroclastic zone is of agglomerate often containing large bombs. Dykes and masses of intrusive diorite and gabbro are present though in some less exposed areas these may be confused with large grained or altered flows.
The Alice shear is considered to contain the most promising gold mineralization on the property. This zone lies on the north side of a small lake known as Gold Lake and is exposed in outcrop and trenches for about 900 feet. The shear follows a band of chert-like inter-flow tuff that varies in thickness from a few inches to 6.5 feet. The shear zone ranges in width from 1 foot to approximately 20 feet. The rocks within the zone are sericite and chlorite schist, and scattered veinlets and lenses of quartz. The average width of the well-mineralized section of the zone is from 2 to 3 feet and it has a length of about 500 feet. Gold occurs sporadically in the heavily pyritized part of the zone.
Previous Exploration
The area was first prospected in the summer of 1938. Gold was found in July of that year and claims were staked on the more promising showings.
The property was acquired by Sunset Yellowknife Mines in 1945 and in the spring and summer of that year, this company did extensive trenching and diamond drilling on the two zones. A total of 1907 feet of diamond drilling was done on the Alice shear north of Gold lake.
Operations then ceased out but were resumed in February of 1946 and continued through to November of that year. A camp erected, and in the fall of 1946 a two-compartment vertical shaft was sunk to a depth of 23 feet on the Alice shear zone. In March of 1947, a small mining plant was moved to the property and during the following summer the shaft in the Alice zone was deepened to 145 feet. Drifts were opened on the 125-foot level and extended about 100 feet north and south from the shaft before the property closed on September 10th, 1947. No work was done by the company after September, 1947.
Early in 1966, the claims were optioned by Giant Yellowknife Mines Ltd. who carried out a geological mapping, geological surveying and short hole diamond drill program on new untested zones. The option was allowed to lapse. No work has been done on the property since that time.
Proposed Exploration Work - Plan of Operation
Mr. Glen C. Macdonald, P. Geol., authored the "Geological Report on the Alice Claim” dated November, 2006 (the “Macdonald Report”), in which he recommended an exploration program to evaluate the potential of the claim. Mr. Macdonald is a registered Professional Geologist in good standing in the Association of Professional Engineers and Geoscientists of British Columbia and the Association of Professional Engineers of Alberta. He is a graduate of the University of British Columbia, Vancouver, B.C. with a Bachelor of Economics (1971) and Geology (1973). Mr. Macdonald has practiced his profession as a geologist continuously since 1973. He visited the area covered by our claim in 2005.
We must conduct exploration to determine what minerals exist on our property and whether they can be economically extracted and profitably processed. We plan to proceed with exploration of the Alice Claim by completing the work recommended in the Macdonald Report, in order to begin determining the potential for discovering commercially exploitable deposits of gold on our claim.
We have not discovered any ores or reserves on the Alice Claim, our sole mineral property. Our planned work is exploratory in nature.
The Macdonald Report concludes:
-
the Alice Claim covers an occurrence of high-grade gold mineralization in volcanic rocks of the Yellowknife supergroup;
-
early exploration of vein systems by trenching, drilling and underground development may have over looked the presence of fine-grained gold carried in pyrite sulphide within the volcanic units themselves;
-
geophysical surveys have identified conductive anomalies which should be further explored; and
-
detailed geological mapping, with trenching and sampling should be conducted in the vicinity of the conductors to determine if drilling is warranted.
The Macdonald Report recommends the following work be undertaken and anticipates the cost as follows:
●
Geological mapping
$ 10,000
●
Trenching and sampling
7,500
Total
$ 17,500
The Alice Claim, being located in a northerly latitude, and is subject to long, cold winters with snowfall accumulations. No exploration work was done in 2009 due to a lack of funds on hand. With the weather situation in the winter of 2009 our planned work cannot be undertaken until the late spring of 2010.
Thus, even if the results of our planned exploration work proves encouraging, there is no assurance we will be able to raise the capital necessary to conduct further exploration work on the Alice Claim. Furthermore, even if funding is available, additional work will only be undertaken if the results of our planned work is successful in identifying target zones of gold mineralization deemed worthy, by our geologist, of drilling to determine if a gold deposit may exist. Should our initial work prove unsuccessful in identifying such drill targets, the Company will likely abandon the Alice Claim and we may have to go out of business.
There are no permanent facilities, plants, buildings or equipment on the Alice Claim.
Competitive Factors
The mining industry is highly fragmented. We are competing with many other exploration companies looking for gold and silver. We are among the smallest exploration companies in existence and are an infinitely small participant in the mining business which is the cornerstone of the founding and early stage development of the mining industry. While we generally compete with other exploration companies, there is no competition for the exploration or removal of minerals from our claims. Readily available markets exist for the sale of gold and silver. Therefore, we will likely be able to sell any gold or silver that we are able to recover, in the event commercial quantities are discovered on the Alice Claims. There is no ore body on the Alice Claims.
Regulations
Governing Laws
The mining industry in Canada operates under both federal and provincial or territorial legislation governing the exploration, development, production and decommissioning of mines. Such legislation relates to such matters as the method of acquisition and ownership of mining rights, labor, health and safety standards, royalties, mining and income taxes, exports, reclamation and rehabilitation of mines, and other matters. The mining industry in Canada is also subject to legislation at both the federal and provincial or territorial levels concerning the protection of the environment. Legislation imposes high standards on the mining industry to reduce or eliminate the effects of waste generated by extraction and processing operations and subsequently deposited on the ground or emitted into the air or water. The design of mines and mills, and the conduct of extraction and processing operations, are subject to regulatory restrictions. The exploration, construction, development and operation of a mine, mill or refinery require compliance with environmental legislation and regulatory reviews, and the obtaining of land use and other permits, water licenses and similar authorizations from various governmental agencies. Legislation is in place for lands under federal jurisdiction or located in certain provinces and territories that provide for the preparation of costly environmental impact assessment reports prior to the commencement of any mining operations. These reports require a detailed technical and scientific assessment as well as a prediction of the impact on the environment of proposed mine exploration and development.
Failure to comply with the requirements of environmental legislation may result in regulatory or court orders being issued that could result in the cessation, curtailment or modification of operations or that could require the installation of additional facilities or equipment to protect the environment. Violators may be required to compensate those suffering loss or damage by reason of mining activities and the violators, including our officers and directors, may be fined or, in some cases, imprisoned if convicted of an offense under such legislation. Provincial and territorial mining legislation establishes requirements for the decommissioning, reclamation and rehabilitation of mining properties that are closed. Closure requirements relate to the protection and restoration of the environment and the protection of public safety. Some former mining properties must be managed for a long time following closure in order to fulfill regulatory closure requirements. The cost of closure of existing and former mining properties and, in particular, the cost of long-term management of open or closed mining properties can be substantial.
Mineral exploration is subject to the Canadian Mineral Tenure Act Regulation. This act sets forth rules for: locating claims, posting claims, working claims and reporting work performed. We will be required to obtain permits from the NWT Ministry of the Environment before we commence mining operations at the Alice Claim.
With respect to the legislation, rules and regulations referred to above, we believe that we are
currently in compliance in all material respects with applicable legislation, rules and regulations.
The Company does not foresee having to expend material amounts in order to comply with environmental laws during the exploration phase of its operations. The Company is obligated to restore surface disturbances created by exploration. These restoration efforts typically involve the back filing of trenches, pits, or other excavations created for purposes of exploration.
Underground exploration, which the Company contemplates in the future, will require additional cost related to the storage of excavated material. Until the Company knows the amount of material it will have to store, it cannot estimate this cost. There will be material costs of environmental compliance if the Company develops a mine in the future. However, the Company cannot reasonably estimate that environmental compliance cost at this time.
It is not possible to estimate the cost of meeting the rules and regulations for a mining operation at this time. Those costs will only be determined when a mine plan and the required studies are completed to apply for a mining permit.
Government Permitting
Our proposed mineral exploration program is subject to the Canadian Mineral Tenure Act Regulation. This act sets forth rules for locating claims, posting claims, working claims and reporting work performed. The Company is committed to complying with all governmental and environmental regulations. We are obliged to adhere to environmental regulations promulgated by the Government of Canada. It is reasonable to expect that compliance with environmental regulations will increase our costs. Such compliance may include feasibility studies on the surface impact of our future exploration operations; costs associated with minimizing surface impact; water treatment and protection; reclamation activities, including rehabilitation of various sites; on-going efforts at alleviating the mining impact of wildlife; and permits or bonds as may be required to ensure our compliance with applicable regulations. It is possible that these costs and delays associated with such compliance could become so prohibitive that we may decide to not proceed with exploration on the Alice Claim.
The Company cannot predict the extent to which future legislation and regulation could cause additional expense, capital expenditures, restrictions, and delays in the development of the Company's Canadian properties, including those with respect to mining claims. The Company's activities are not only subject to extensive federal and territorial regulations controlling the mining of and exploration for mineral properties, but also the possible effects of such activities upon the environment. For example we will be obligated to take steps to ensure that any streams draining the property do not become contaminated as a result of our activities on the property. We are not aware of any environmental problems on the property as of the date of this prospectus.
Employees
Initially, we intend to use the services of subcontractors for manual labor exploration work on our claim and an engineer or geologist to manage the exploration program. At present, we have no employees as such although each of our officers and directors devotes a portion of his time to the affairs of the Company. None of our officers and directors has an employment agreement with us. We presently do not have pension, health, annuity, insurance, profit sharing or similar benefit plans; however, we may adopt such plans in the future. There are presently no personal benefits available to any employee.
As indicated above we will hire subcontractors on an as needed basis. We have not entered into negotiations or contracts with any of potential subcontractors. We do not intend to initiate negotiations or hire anyone until we are nearing the time of commencement of our planned exploration activities.
Subcontractors
We will be using for our exploration activities subcontractors for manual labor and will continue to do so during the exploration work schedule in the spring of 2010.
Employees and Employment Agreements
At present, we have no full-time employees. Our officer and director will devote time to our operation. Our director does not have employment agreements with us. We presently do not have pension, health, annuity, insurance, stock options, profit sharing or similar benefit plans; however, we may adopt plans in the future. There are presently no personal benefits available to our officer and director. Our officer and director will handle our administrative duties but because of his inexperience with exploration, he will hire qualified persons to perform the surveying, geology, engineering, exploration, and excavating of the property. As of this date, we have not looked for or talked to any geologists or engineers who will perform work for us in the future.
Investment Policies
The Company does not have an investment policy at this time. Any excess funds it has on hand will be deposited in interest bearing notes such as term deposits or short term money instruments. There are no restrictions on what the director is able to invest or additional funds held by the Company. Presently the Company does not have any excess funds to invest.
ITEM 3.