Item 2. Properties
Description of Assets to be Acquired from Vista
As part of the Arrangement, Allied Nevada will acquire the Vista Nevada Assets from Vista. The Vista Nevada Assets consist of six mineral projects, all of which are located in Nevada. Allied Nevada will acquire the Vista Nevada Assets by acquiring all of the issued and outstanding shares of Vista Gold Holdings Inc. from Vista. The Vista Nevada Assets include the Hycroft mine and the Wildcat, Maverick Springs, Mountain View, Hasbrouck and Three Hills projects, and the properties held through F.W. Lewis, Inc. Allied Nevada will hold the Hycroft mine through its indirect wholly-owned subsidiary, Hycroft Lewis Mine, Inc.; and the Maverick Springs, Mountain View, Hasbrouck, Three Hills and Wildcat projects through its indirect wholly-owned subsidiary, Vista Nevada Corp. In addition, the properties acquired by Vista through the acquisition of F.W. Lewis, Inc. will be held through Allied Nevada’s indirect wholly-owned subsidiary, Victory Gold Inc. Detailed information regarding these properties is set out below. Estimates of reserves and mineralization herein are subject to the effect of changes in metal prices, and to the risks inherent in mining and processing operations.
The following table summarizes material information concerning the properties that will be acquired from Vista by Allied Nevada as part of the Arrangement. The reader is directed to the more comprehensive information about these properties starting on page 19, immediately following this summary table.
Nevada Projects to be Acquired from Vista by Allied Nevada
Summary Information
Hycroft Mine
The Hycroft mine and related facilities are located 54 miles west of Winnemucca, Nevada. The Lewis mine was acquired by Vista in early 1987 and the construction of the adjacent Crofoot mine project was completed in April 1988. Mining operations at the Hycroft mine were suspended in December 1998, and the site was placed on care and maintenance. The Hycroft mine is fully permitted for resumption of production and bonded for past production activities. Gold production, from continued leaching and rinsing of the heap leach pads, continued in 2000 and 2001. In 2002, 2003, 2004 and 2005, the amount of gold recovered was not material, as expected. The mine is currently on care and maintenance. From inception in 1987 until suspension of mining operations in December 1998, the Hycroft mine produced over 1 million ounces of gold.
In January 2005, Vista announced that it had signed an agreement with Canyon Resources Corporation to grant Canyon a six-month option to purchase the Hycroft mine. In August 2005, Canyon elected not to exercise their option to purchase the Hycroft mine. As previously reported, during its option period Canyon completed 33 drill holes on the whole Hycroft property which confirmed average grades for the ore body. See “- Geology and Ore Reserves” and “- Updated Feasibility Study” below.
On December 13, 2005, Vista purchased the leasehold interest in the Lewis property at Hycroft as part of the acquisition of F.W. Lewis, Inc. See “- F.W. Lewis, Inc. Properties”.
Operating Statistics
Operating statistics for the Hycroft mine for the period 2001 to 2006 were as follows:
(1)
Ore processed means ore placed on pads but not necessarily leached during the year.
(2)
Cash operating costs are composed of all direct mining expenses including inventory changes, refining and transportation costs, less by-product silver credits.
Geology and Ore Reserves
The Hycroft mine is located on the western flank of the Kamma Mountains. The deposit is hosted in a volcanic eruptive breccia and conglomerates associated with the Tertiary Kamma Mountain volcanics. The volcanics are mainly acidic to intermediate tuffs, flows and coarse volcaniclastic rocks. Fragments of these units dominate the clasts in the eruptive breccia. Volcanic rocks have been block- faulted by dominant north-trending structures, which have affected the distribution of alteration and mineralization. The Central Fault and East Fault control the distribution of mineralization and subsequent oxidation. A post-mineral range-front fault separates the orebody from the adjacent Pleistocene Lahontan Lake sediments in the Black Rock Desert. The geological events have created a physical setting ideally suited to the open-pit, heap-leach mining
operation at the Hycroft mine. The heap leach method is widely used in the southwestern United States and allows the economical treatment of oxidized low-grade ore deposits in large volumes.
The known gold mineralization within the Crofoot and Lewis properties extends for a distance of three miles in a north-south direction by 1.5 miles in an east-west direction. Mineralization extends to a depth of less than 330 feet in the outcropping to near-outcropping portion of the deposit on the northwest side to over 990 feet in the Brimstone deposit in the east. Not all the mineralization is oxidized and the depth of oxide ore varies considerably over the area of mineralization.
The Crofoot and Lewis properties together comprise approximately 12,230 acres. The Crofoot property, originally held under lease, is owned by Hycroft Resources & Development, Inc. subject to a 4% net profits interest retained by the former owners, and covers approximately 3,544 acres. The Lewis property, which virtually surrounds the Crofoot property, covers approximately 8,686 acres and was purchased by Vista as part of the acquisition of F.W. Lewis, Inc. in December 2005. The mine is accessible by road and has access to adequate supplies of water and power.
Updated Feasibility Study
In January 2006, Vista announced results of an updated feasibility study for the possible restart of operations at the Hycroft Mine. The updated study was issued by MDA of Reno, Nevada, a consulting firm, in accordance with Canadian National Instrument 43-101 guidelines. The study and verification of the data employed in the study was undertaken under the supervision of Mr. Neil Prenn, P. Eng., a qualified person independent of Vista and Allied Nevada.
The Hycroft estimate of gold mineralized material on which the feasibility study was based and which was used by MDA to calculate mineral reserves was prepared by Ore Reserves Engineering (“ORE”) of Lakewood, Colorado, under the direction of Mr. Alan Noble, P. Eng., a qualified person independent of Vista. The results of the ORE estimate of gold mineralized material, at a cutoff grade of 0.005 ounces per ton cyanide-soluble gold showed the known Brimstone deposit contains an estimated 52.7 million tons of gold mineralized material at a grade of 0.019 ounces of gold per ton, and were previously reported by Vista in a press release dated August 4, 2005.
Based on guidelines provided by the SEC, proven and probable mineral reserves were determined within a design pit based on a $400 per ounce gold price employing a Lerchs-Grossman optimization. Gold recovery by heap leach is estimated at 57% for both proven and probable reserves. Drill spacing for proven reserves is 100 feet or less, and for probable reserves is between 100 and 200 feet. The results are summarized in the following table:
On August 14, 2006, MDA of Reno, Nevada, issued a technical report describing the work done by it previously.
Exploration
Management believes that there is significant potential to extend the oxide mineralization to the south, along strike, at both the Central Fault and Brimstone deposits, but the greatest upside lies in the largely unexplored sulfide mineralization below the Brimstone deposit, as well as higher grade intercepts along the Central Fault.
Current gold mineralized material at Brimstone is limited to the oxide cap of an apparently large but previously unexplored gold-bearing sulfide system. Two diamond drill holes, drilled in 1996 and earlier, intercepted gold mineralized sulfides averaging 0.023 ounces per ton gold and 0.5 ounces per ton silver over intervals exceeding 500 feet in thickness. In 1996, Vista also intercepted 30 feet of gold mineralization in drill hole 95-2728. This intercept assayed 0.155 ounces per ton gold at a true depth of 310 feet below surface. The hole terminated in this mineralization; the true width of the mineralization is not known.
Wildcat
Wildcat is located about 35 miles northwest of Lovelock and 26 miles south of the Hycroft mine in Pershing County, Nevada. The project consists of 74 unpatented claims and 4 patented claims, comprising 1389.6 acres.
During September and October 2003, Vista concluded due diligence reviews and executed formal purchase agreements to acquire the Wildcat project and the associated exploration data in three separate transactions. On September 23, 2003, Vista purchased 71 unpatented mining claims from Monex Exploration, a partnership, for $200,000 on signing and $300,000 on August 11, 2004. On commencement of commercial production, Allied Nevada will make a one-time production payment in the amount of $500,000. Thirteen of the claims are subject to an underlying 0.4% net smelter return royalty (“NSR”), and the remaining 58 claims are subject to an underlying 1% NSR.
On October 12, 2003, Vista purchased a 100% interest in the Vernal unpatented mining claim from David C. Mough and Jody Ahlquist Mough for $50,000 on signing and $50,000 on October 1, 2004, for a total consideration of $100,000.
On October 28, 2003, Vista purchased four patented mining claims and exploration data from Sagebrush Exploration, Inc. (“Sagebrush”) for 50,000 Vista Shares issued and delivered to Sagebrush upon the closing of the transaction. The four patented claims are subject to an underlying net smelter returns royalty of 1% for gold production between 500,000 and 1,000,000 ounces, increasing to 2% on production in excess of 1,000,000 ounces.
Geology
Wildcat lies in the Seven Troughs Range which is underlain by Triassic and Jurassic sedimentary rocks and has been intruded by Cretaceous granodiorite. Volcanic domes and plugs of rhyolite, quartz latite, trachyte, and andesite have been emplaced by Tertiary volcanism. Tertiary flows of pyroclastic debris, and vitrophyres of rhyolite, quartz latite, trachyte, and andesite composition blanket much of the area. The property contains structurally controlled epithermal gold and silver mineralization identified in four areas: Hero/Tag, Main, Northeast and Knob 32. The four areas have generally similar geology and mineralization with precious metals mineralization spatially associated with the contact between granodiorite and overlying tuff. Gold mineralization occurs with low-temperature silica, chalcedony and pyrite. The Main, Northeast, and Knob 32 deposits appear to be part of the Hero/Tag deposit, though structurally displaced.
The principal low-grade zone that essentially encompassed all the mineralization is tabular and dips gently to the southeast. There appear to be two main styles of mineralization based on mapping, sampling, and statistics. There is a broad, low-grade zone surrounding higher-grade material. The principal host is the tuff in which the low-grade precious metal mineralization is represented by pervasive and intense silicification. The underlying granodiorite also contains a low-grade disseminated style of mineralization with higher grade silicified breccias occurring generally as stockwork within it. Generally, the granodiorite has higher grade and is not silicified. Any silicification is restricted to adjacent veins and veinlets, occasionally being discrete veins as were exploited historically, but also resulting in a large-tonnage stockwork. All of the tuff was altered by epithermal solutions; however, much of the granodiorite is unaltered. High-grade material includes multi-episodic chalcedonic silica veins and breccias.
On November 11, 2003, MDA of Reno, Nevada completed a third-party technical study for Vista. Using data from one underground channel sample, 245 reverse circulation drill holes and 11 diamond drill holes totaling 95,466 feet, gold mineralized material above a cut-off grade of 0.010 ounces of gold per ton was estimated at 38.1 million tons grading 0.018 ounces of gold per ton and 0.16 ounces of silver per ton.
On August 14, 2006, MDA of Reno, Nevada, issued a technical report describing the work done by it previously.
Maverick Springs
The Maverick Springs project is located in northeast Nevada at the southeast end of the Carlin Trend belt of gold-silver mineralization, approximately half-way between Elko and Ely, Nevada. The property consists of 86 claims with a total area of approximately 3,900 acres.
On October 7, 2002, Vista completed the acquisition of a 100% interest in the Maverick Springs gold and silver project from Newmont Mining Corporation (“Newmont”) and the Mountain View gold project (described below) from Newmont’s wholly-owned subsidiary Newmont Capital Limited (“Newmont Capital”). To acquire the interest in Maverick Springs, Vista paid cash of $250,000 and issued 141,243 equity units to Newmont, each unit comprised of one Vista Share and one two-year Vista Warrant. Newmont retained a 1.5% NSR, and on October 7, 2003, Vista issued to Newmont 122,923 Vista Shares and 122,923 Vista Warrants. All of the foregoing Vista Warrants expired unexercised. In addition, pursuant to acquisition agreement terms Vista completed 34,060 feet of drilling as of October 7, 2004, and was required to complete an additional 15,940 feet of drilling before October 7, 2006, such drilling was completed in August 2006. Allied Nevada may terminate
this agreement at any time. After October 7, 2006, Newmont had a one-time right to acquire a 51% interest in the Maverick Springs project, by paying to Allied Nevada twice the amount that Allied Nevada and, historically Vista, have spent on the project, including acquisition costs. In the event that were to Newmont exercise this right, Newmont would relinquish its 1.5% NSR. This one-time right expired 60 days after receipt of data on the property from Allied Nevada, which data was required to be delivered within 30 days of October 7, 2006. In January 2007, Newmont informed Vista that it would not be exercising this right.
Maverick Springs is subject to a lease agreement, between Newmont and Artemis Exploration Company. The lease was entered into on October 1, 2001, and the key terms include: payment of advance minimum royalties of $50,000 on October 1, 2003, (this has been paid) and advance minimum royalties of $100,000 on October 1, 2004, (this has been paid), $100,000 on October 1, 2005 (this has been paid) and each year thereafter while the agreement is in effect; work commitments of 6,400 feet of exploration drilling, on or before October 1 in each of 2002 (extended by agreement to November 15, 2002), 2003 and 2004 (these commitments have been met), a preliminary economic evaluation to be conducted by October 1, 2004 which was extended to April 7, 2005 (this has been completed); and a net smelter returns royalty based on a sliding scale ranging from 2% to 6%, depending on gold and silver prices at the time of production.
On June 9, 2003, Vista entered into an agreement granting Silver Standard Resources Inc. (“SSRI”) an option to acquire its interest in the silver mineralized material hosted in the Maverick Springs project. Allied Nevada will retain its 100% interest in the gold mineralized material. The agreement with SSRI is subject to the terms of the Newmont purchase agreement. Under the agreement, SSRI was to pay $1.5 million over four years, of which $949,823 was paid to Vista in 2003, $428,481 in 2004 and $144,285 in 2005, completing the $1.5 million obligation. Since SSRI has satisfied the $1.5 million obligation, all costs incurred for Maverick Springs are now being shared by the two corporations as stated below. SSRI and Vista have formed a committee to jointly manage exploration of the Maverick Springs project. Allied Nevada is the operator and has a 45% vote on the committee, and SSRI has a 55% vote. Since SSRI has completed its $1.5 million in payments, future costs will be shared by SSRI and Allied Nevada on the same ratio as established for operation of the management committee: Allied Nevada 45% / SSRI 55%, subject to standard dilution provisions.
Prior operators have conducted drilling on the Maverick Springs project. In November 2002, Vista completed a 7-hole reverse circulation drill program totalling 7,020 feet on the Maverick Springs project. The program consisted of seven vertical reverse circulation holes, stepped out 500 feet to 2,200 feet from previously identified mineralization. All seven holes encountered flat-lying mineralization, predominantly oxidized to depths of up to 900 feet. The program outlined continuous mineralization in a 2,200-foot by 1,200-foot area, immediately adjacent to known gold-silver mineralization. With additional in-fill drilling, this newly outlined mineralization has the potential to significantly increase the mineralized material.
In October 2003, Vista completed a 16-hole reverse circulation program totalling 14,015 feet, in October 2004, Vista completed a 13-hole reverse circulation program totalling 13,015 feet and in August 2006, Vista completed a 18-hole reverse circulation drill program totalling approximately 16,000 feet. Intercepts indicate the potential for bulk-mineable gold-silver mineralization.
Geology
Maverick Springs can be classified as a Carlin-type or sediment/carbonate hosted disseminated silver-gold deposit. Sediment hosted deposits are common within northern Nevada, although the systems are usually gold dominated with relatively minor amounts of silver. Silver and gold mineralization at Maverick Springs has been interpreted as a roughly antiformal or arch-shaped zone with an axis that plunges shallowly to the south and seems to flatten to horizontal over the northern half of the deposit. The limbs of the arch dip shallowly to moderately at 10-30o to the east and west. Overall, the mineralized zone is elongate in the north-south direction with a length of over 6,000 feet, a width of up to 3,000 feet, and a thickness of commonly 100-300 feet.
Mineralization consists of micron-sized silver and gold with related pyrite, stibnite and arsenic sulfides. It is usually associated with intense fracturing and brecciation, with or without accompanying whole-rock silicification or stockwork quartz.
Alteration consists of pervasive decalcification, weak to intense silicification and weak alunitic argillization. Massive jasperoid is common in surface exposures and in drill core. Oxidation has affected all sulfides on surface and is pervasive to a depth of at least 400 feet, intermittent to 900 feet, and generally absent below 1,000 feet.
Based on a third-party technical study completed on April 13, 2004, by Snowden Mining Industry Consultants of Vancouver, British Columbia, the Maverick Springs project contains approximately 69.6 million tons of mineralized material with an average grade of 0.01 ounces of gold per ton and 1.0 ounce of silver per ton at a silver-equivalent cut-off grade of 1.0 ounce of silver per ton.
On July 30, 2006, Snowden Mining Industry Consultants of Vancouver, British Columbia, issued a technical report describing the work done by it previously, and reporting drilling completed in 2004.
Mountain View
The Mountain View property is located in northwest Nevada near the Blackrock Desert. The property is approximately 15 miles northwest of Gerlach, Nevada in Washoe County; it straddles the boundary between the Squaw Valley and Banjo topographic quadrangles. The property currently consists of 127 claims with a total area of approximately 2,360 acres.
Vista’s acquisition of the Mountain View property was completed along with that of the Maverick Springs property, as described above. To acquire the interest in the Mountain View property, Vista paid cash of $50,000 and issued 56,497 equity units, each unit comprised of one Vista Share and a two-year Vista Warrant, to Newmont Capital, and Newmont Capital retains a 1.5% NSR. All of these Vista Warrants expired unexercised. In addition, Vista completed 8,055 feet of drilling before October 7, 2004, as required by the underlying agreement. Allied Nevada may terminate this agreement at any time. After October 7, 2006, Newmont Capital had a one-time right to acquire a 51% interest in the project, by paying to Allied Nevada twice the amount that Allied Nevada, and historically Vista, have spent on the project, including acquisition costs. In the event that Newmont Capital were to exercise this right, Newmont Capital would relinquish its 1.5% NSR. This one-time right expired 60 days after receipt of data on the property from Allied Nevada, which data was required to be delivered within 30 days of October 7, 2006. In January 2007, Newmont Capital informed Vista that it would not be exercising this right.
Newmont Capital’s interest in the Mountain View property is subject to an underlying lease and two other royalty arrangements, the principal terms of which are: the underlying lease grants a 50% interest to Newmont in all claims, with a few exceptions where a 5% interest is granted; and the lessee may purchase the remaining interest in the claims for $250,000 at any time. The lessee is obligated to purchase the remaining 50% for $250,000 on achieving commercial production. Also, the lessee shall pay a 1% NSR during production, with advance minimum payments of $25,000 per year. Advanced royalties are deductible from the net smelter returns royalty and cease upon purchase of the remaining interest of the underlying lease. A 1% NSR also applies to certain other claims.
Prior operators have conducted drilling on the Mountain View property. Vista completed a five-hole reverse circulation program totalling 4,330 feet in November 2003. The results indicate the presence of a new zone of bulk mineralization approximately 200 feet east of the known core of mineralization. Vista completed a five-hole reverse circulation program totalling 4,070 feet in 2004, and the results indicate potential bulk-mineable gold mineralization and the down-dip extension of higher- grade gold mineralization.
Geology
The dominant rock types in the area are Miocene volcanics and interbedded volcaniclastic sediments. Minor greenschist facies Permo-Triassic strata occur to the northeast and a large body of granodiorite makes up the bulk of the Granite Range to the east and south.
The Miocene lithologies consist of mafic tuffs, rhyolite tuffs and flows, volcaniclastic sediments and basalts. These units are separated from the Granite Range to the east by a range front normal fault that dips steeply to the southwest. The gold mineralization is hosted by a unit known as the Severance rhyolite that is sandwiched between the range front fault to the northeast and older Tertiary tuffs, flows and volcaniclastic sediments to the southwest.
Structure on the property is dominated by northwest and northeast trending faults. Major fault offsets occur along the range-front fault system and these are offset by the northeast trending structures. Recent alluvium is offset by the range front faults.
Based on a third-party technical study completed December 17, 2002, by Snowden Mining Industry Consultants of Vancouver, British Columbia, the Mountain View project contains approximately 23.2 million tons of gold mineralized material with an average grade of 0.013 ounces of gold per ton at a cut-off grade of 0.006 ounces of gold per ton.
On July 31, 2006, Snowden Mining Industry Consultants of Vancouver, British Columbia, issued a technical report describing the work done by it previously, and reporting drilling completed in 2003 and 2004.
Hasbrouck
The Hasbrouck property is located in southwestern Nevada about 5 miles south- southwest of the town of Tonopah in Esmeralda County, Nevada, adjacent to U.S. Highway 95 and approximately half-way between Reno and Las Vegas. The property consists of 22 patented lode mining claims and 61 unpatented lode claims that cover an area of approximately 1,300 acres.
On May 23, 2003, Vista executed a purchase agreement with Newmont Capital, which includes both the Hasbrouck property and the Three Hills property, which lies approximately 4.5 miles to the north-northwest. Terms of the purchase included a $50,000 cash payment on signing and $200,000 or, at Vista’s discretion, the equivalent in Vista Shares one year after signing. In June and July 2004, Vista issued to Newmont Capital an aggregate 50,475 Vista Shares at a deemed per share price of $3.96. The value of the Vista Shares was based on the average AMEX closing price of the Vista Shares over the ten-trading-day period ending one day before the first anniversary of the agreement. Newmont Capital, at its option, will retain either: (a) a 2% NSR in each project together with the right to a $500,000 cash payment at the start of commercial production at either project and a further $500,000 cash payment if, after the start of commercial production, the gold price averages $400 per ounce or more for any three-month period; or (b) the right to acquire 51% of either or both projects. The latter right would be exercisable only after the later of four years or the time when Allied Nevada, and historically Vista, have incurred aggregate expenditures of $1.0 million to acquire, explore and hold the projects and would include Newmont Capital paying to Allied Nevada cash equaling 200% of the expenditures made by Allied Nevada, and historically Vista, on the related property. In this event, Newmont Capital would become operator of a joint venture with Allied Nevada, and both parties would fund the project through to a production decision. Allied Nevada’s contribution to the joint venture during this period is capped at $5.0 million, $3.0 million of which Newmont Capital would finance for Allied Nevada and recover, with interest, exclusively from related project cash flows. Allied Nevada would also grant Newmont Capital a right of first offer with respect to subsequent sale of the projects by Allied Nevada. An additional 1.5% NSR on the Hasbrouck property is held by a private party.
Geology
The property is located on Hasbrouck Mountain, which is thought to lie along the western edge of a caldera. The mountain is underlain by gently dipping ash-flow, air-fall and waterlain tuffs and volcaniclastic sediments of the Miocene Siebert Formation. Several occurrences of chalcedonic sinter deposits occur near the summit of the mountain. Gold and silver mineralization in the Hasbrouck deposit appears to have formed relatively close to the paleo-surface in an epithermal, hot spring environment. The mineralization is concentrated in the Siebert Formation, in units stratigraphically below the chalcedonic sinter deposits that are exposed near the top of Hasbrouck Mountain. Two zones of mineralization are presently defined. The “Main” zone includes the bulk of mineralization at Hasbrouck, while the small “South Adit” zone lies 700 to 1000 feet to the south of the “Main” zone.
A third-party technical study was completed for Vista by MDA of Reno, Nevada on August 29, 2003. The Hasbrouck study was developed using data from 54,339 feet of drilling, principally comprised of 105 reverse circulation holes totaling 44,400 feet and 22 rotary drill holes totaling 8,980 feet. The drilling database was compiled from work performed by FMC Gold Co., Cordex Syndicate and Franco Nevada Inc. between 1974 and 1988. Based on this study, mineralized material above a cut-off of 0.010 ounces of gold per ton is 20.3 million tons with an average grade of 0.023 ounces of gold per ton and 0.32 ounces of silver per ton.
On August 14, 2006, MDA of Reno, Nevada, issued a technical report describing the work done by it previously.
Three Hills
Three Hills is located in southwestern Nevada about 1 mile west of the town of Tonopah in Esmeralda County, Nevada, and about 4.5 miles northwest of the Hasbrouck property described above. Three Hills consists of 15 unpatented lode claims totalling approximately 201 acres.
On May 23, 2003, Vista executed a purchase agreement with Newmont Capital, which included both the Hasbrouck property and the Three Hills property. The terms of this agreement are detailed under the Hasbrouck description above.
Geology
Three Hills is located in the Walker Lane structural domain of the Basin and Range physiographic province. It is in an area of structural disruption resulting from a series of orogenic events occurring in Paleozoic, Mesozoic and Cenozoic times. Basin and Range high-angle normal faults control the mineralization at Three Hills, where they cut the Siebert Formation. Gold mineralization occurs in a zone of pervasive silicification and in the Siebert Formation and the upper 10 to 30 feet of the Fraction Tuff. The contact between these two units contains consistently higher grades of gold and is more commonly argillized than silicified.
MDA of Reno, Nevada, completed a third-party technical study for Vista on August 29, 2003. The Three Hills study included data from 62,874 feet of drilling, comprised of 183 reverse circulation holes totaling 54,657 feet, 45 air-track and rotary holes totaling 6,320 feet and 9 diamond drill holes totaling 1,897 feet. The drilling was completed by Echo Bay Mines Ltd., Eastfield Resources, Saga Exploration and Cordex Syndicate between 1974 and 1996. Based on this study, gold
mineralized material above a cut-off of 0.01 ounces of gold per ton was 5.7 million tons with an average grade of 0.023 ounces of gold per ton.
On August 14, 2006, MDA of Reno, Nevada, issued a technical report describing the work done by it previously.
F.W. Lewis, Inc. Properties
On December 13, 2005, Allied Nevada’s subsidiary Victory Gold Inc. (“Victory Gold”), acquired all of the outstanding shares of F.W. Lewis, Inc. (now named Victory Exploration Inc., “Victory Exploration”), the assets of which include 55 mineral properties in Nevada and Colorado. The acquisition was made by exercise of a purchase option originally held by Century Gold LLC (“Century Gold”) of Spring Creek, Nevada. Century Gold assigned the option to Victory Gold pursuant to an assignment and assumption agreement effective December 9, 2005. Under the terms of the assignment agreement, Vista paid Century Gold $150,000 in cash and also reimbursed Century Gold for the $250,000 it paid the owners of F.W. Lewis, Inc. toward the option exercise price of $5.1 million. In addition, Vista issued to Century Gold 250,000 Vista Shares valued at $1.218 million. To complete the exercise of this option, Vista paid the owners of F.W. Lewis, Inc., the remaining $4.85 million of the outstanding purchase price. Century Gold retained a 100% interest in two properties and a 50% interest in two other properties. The 53 properties retained by Victory Gold include a total of 9,280 acres of patented and 11,616 acres of unpatented mineral claims, the majority having gold, silver or copper discoveries or old mines located on the properties. The 53 properties include three Colorado properties, which will be retained by Vista.
Victory Exploration owns a production royalty interest in Lewis Mine at the Hycroft Mine. The production royalty (applying to approximately 70% of the reported reserves) is 5% NSR on gold and 7.5% NSR on other minerals, including silver. The production royalty on gold escalates on ore over 0.05 ounces per ton (opt) to a maximum of 10% NSR on ore grades over 0.14 opt. With the acquisition of Victory Exploration, Hycroft Lewis Mine, Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of Vista U.S., is no longer subject to payment of this royalty to an outside party.
Included in the package (100% retained by Victory Gold) is a property in the Battle Mountain, Nevada Mining District, adjacent to and on trend with Newmont’s Phoenix-Fortitude property, although similar mineralization cannot be assured. This property is subject to pre-existing agreements with Madison Minerals Inc. (formerly Madison Enterprises Corp.) and Great American Minerals Exploration (Nevada) LLC. These agreements involve payments of $3,000 per month minimum royalty payments to Victory Gold, minimum exploration commitments of $250,000 per year, and an option to purchase the property for $2.0 million payable by December 31, 2007, with a retained 5% gross royalty on gold and a 4% NSR on other metals, and with annual advance minimum royalty (“AMR”) payments of $60,000 commencing on exercise of the purchase option. Madison and Great American also have an option to purchase the royalties from Victory Gold for $4.0 million in the first year following the date of exercise of the purchase option and escalating by $500,000 each year thereafter.
Allied Nevada plans to review the geology and exploration potential and prioritize the properties during 2007 for possible exploration and/or venture opportunities.
Description of Assets to be Acquired from the Pescios
As part of the Arrangement, Allied Nevada will indirectly acquire the Pescio Nevada Assets. The Pescio Nevada Assets include the Pescios’ royalty and other interests in 53 mining properties, all located in Nevada. Twenty of these properties have been explored to the extent that technical studies could be prepared for the properties. These studies were prepared in accordance with Canadian National Instrument 43-101 standards. All of the 53 properties in which the Pescios hold interests have been optioned and leased to other exploration companies in return for production royalties averaging about 2.6%, advance minimum royalties and, on some of the properties, work commitments. The Pescio Nevada Assets consist of interests in 53 Nevada mining properties, and include the royalty and other interests currently held by the Pescios in the Beowawe Gold Property, the Cobb Creek Property, the Dixie Flats Project, the Dome Property, the Wild Horse Property, the Eden Property, the Elder Creek Property, the NAD Property, the North Carlin Property, the North Mill Creek Property, the Pony Creek Property, the Switch and Six Mile Properties, the Toy Property, the Tusk Property, the Rock Creek Property, the Santa Renia Gold-Silver Property, the Six Mile Property, the South Silver Cloud Property, the Tonka Gold-Silver Property, and the Woodruff Gold-Silver Property.
One of the property interests to be acquired from the Pescios by Allied Nevada, namely the Pony Creek Property, has had an estimate of mineralized material prepared for it. As described more fully starting on page 46, based on a third-party technical report completed on August 31, 2006, by Richard H. Russell, an independent consultant from Sandy, Utah, the Pony Creek Property contains, at a cutoff grade of 20 feet at 0.015 ounces of gold per ton, gold mineralized material of 1,140,000 tons grading 0.057 ounces of gold per ton. Estimates of mineralization herein are subject to the effect of changes in metal prices, and to the risks inherent in mining and processing operations.
The following table summarizes material information concerning the 20 properties for which technical studies have been obtained as noted above. The reader is directed to the more comprehensive information about these properties starting on page 31, immediately following the summary table.
Selected Property Interests to be Acquired from the Pescios by Allied Nevada
Summary Information
Other Pescio Properties
The remaining 33 mining properties in which the Pescios hold property interests have not had technical reports completed in compliance with Canadian National Instrument 43-101 standards and are in various stages of exploration and evaluation.
Beowawe Gold Property
The property is located in the Cortez-Battle Mt.-Eureka Trend in north-central Nevada approximately 30 kilometers east of the town of Battle Mountain and 32 kilometers west of Carlin, Nevada. It currently consists of 100 non-contiguous mining lode claims (approximately 1,799 acres or 728 hectares) and fee land (approximately 79 acres or 32 hectares) in two basic blocks along an east west axis of approximately nine kilometres.
The Pescios are parties to the agreement dated November 7, 2002 with Atna Resources Ltd. and Atna Resources, Inc. (“Atna”) in accordance with which the Pescios granted to Atna the option to acquire 100% of the property subject to the obligation to pay a mineral production royalty equal to 3% NSR from the production of minerals from the property and to pay AMR payments of $75,000 on or before November 6, 2006, and $100,000 on or before November 6, 2007 and on or before November 6 of each subsequent year. Atna has entered into an agreement with Apollo Gold & Energy Inc. to earn up to a 70% interest in the property (subject to performance and satisfaction of certain conditions).
From 1959-1985, there were as many as 50 geothermal test wells drilled for the Beowawe project. The area has been explored for precious metals since 1983 and this included drilling by Chevron, Bow Valley, North and WX. In 1999, Balaclava Mines Inc. acquired the area and drilled a five-hole program. In 2002, Atna optioned the Beowawe claims from Carl Pescio. In 2003, Atna acquired more claims at Beowawe. In 2004, Prospectors Consolidated optioned the claims from Atna. The property was returned to Atna in 2005 and in the same year, Atna optioned the project to Apollo Gold & Energy Inc. Included in the Pescio option to Atna is the requirement to complete 20,000 feet of drilling by November 6, 2005. Atna has extended the requirement to complete the drilling until November 6, 2006 and the requirement to drill 20,000 feet has subsequently been reduced to 8,000 feet.
As part of the Arrangement, Allied Nevada will acquire the Pescios’ interest in the Beowawe Gold Property from the Pescios. Currently, the Pescios are the holders of a royalty on the claims, and are the beneficial or record owners of certain of the claims.
Geology
The geologic target is a low-sulfidation, epithermal precious metals system associated with Miocene aged volcanic rocks (bimodal assemblage) in western and northern Nevada. The project is located at the intersection of the Northern Nevada Rift (“NNR”) with a state-wide line of hot springs, geothermal wells and direct-use geothermal facilities. The claims cover part of the Malpais normal fault system with its intersection with the Dunphy Pass Fault Zone and intersection of these systems has created the controlling plumbing of the Beowawe Hot Spring system. Miocene volcanics along the fault system have been silicified and mineralized with gold and other gold indicator minerals (Hg, etc). The small Red Devil Mine lies on the property at the eastern end of the hotspring system and barite was exploited from the open cut Sansening Barite Mine adjacent to the eastern most claim block.
The past mining activities may present a limited potential for environmental liability as a result of the existence of open shafts, adits and waste dumps at the Red Devil mine and the open pit and staging areas at the barite mine.
The Beowawe Gold property geology includes Miocene aged basalts, andesitic basalts, and dacites that unconformably overlie and crosscut a basement of Ordovician clastic marine sedimentary rocks of the Valmy formation. District structural
fabric is dominated by northeast and northwest high angled faults that act as conduits for the geothermal system that produced the mercury mineralization on the eastern edge of the property and focused the current activity that produced the sinter at the Geysers and supplies the thermal activity for the generation of electricity at the geothermal plant. Various exploration work to date has defined epithermal mineralization and alteration with coincidental trace element geochemical anomalies controlled by these steeply dipping structural conduits. This mineralizing event is thought to have emplaced the past mined mercury and barite in what is believed to be the upper-most levels of a low-sulphidation Au-Ag deposit. The Beowawe Gold property has a number of similarities to the nearby Mule Canyon deposit and the Ken Synder deposit (Midas District).
The project is accessed from Battle Mountain by taking U.S. Interstate 80 east for 45 km to the junction with State Highway 306. Exploration and mining could be conducted year-round, due to the established roads and the projects proximity to the nearby towns. The property has sufficient surface rights for future exploration or mining operations including potential waste disposal areas, heap leach pads and potential possession plant sites.
The climate is defined by hot summers and cold, windy winters. Precipitation is moderately light. The vegetation varies depending on elevation and moisture. Sagebrush and sparse grasses thrive on the valley floors while mountain mahogany, juniper and pinion trees grow on the lower slopes of the higher ranges to the south and west of the project ground.
Allied Nevada has not conducted exploration on the Beowawe property. Previous operators have undertaken exploration programs. A geologic map published by Struhsacker (1980) shows northeast striking, high-angle faults cutting through the southern portion of the area as the major structural feature with a cross cutting northwest trending Dunphy Pass Fault Zone.
Large chalcedonic quartz veins up to 5m across, dipping steeply to the south, outcrop on the property and are exposed for over one kilometre, subparallel with the range front. These veins form a strike-slip duplex displaying a left lateral sense of shear, and are cross-cut by multiple phases of later chalcedonic veins +/- carbonate. Pyrite rich breccias occur along and peripheral to the veins. This system is overprinted by a more recent gold-rich hydrothermal system, where fluids have traveled along the Malpais fault system. The veins occur within a graben, and the “bonanza level’ or boiling point is projected to be 150 to 300m below surface.
Most of the drilling occurred between 1983 and 1996 when four companies drilled at least 39 relatively shallow mineral exploration drill holes in the area of the current claim blocks. All of the drill holes from this period were rotary, vertical and relatively shallow (the deepest known being 141.7 meters but typically in the 65 meters range). In 2004, Prospectors Consolidated drilled additional 3 holes (548.6 metres).
In 2003, Atna contracted Zonge geosciences to carry out a dipole-dipole IP survey of 14 lines and the report indicates that the transition from the IP to resistivity anomaly at 150m to 225m below surface may reflect the bonanza or boiling point within the 409 set of large chalcedonic quartz veins, suggesting an excellent drill target.
Rock geochemical samples were taken on the property in a spot sampling approach. During the recent examination of the Beowawe Gold Property, three rock samples were collected from various locations across the property. Each sample was placed into a uniquely numbered, sealed sample bag and delivered to the laboratory.
Standard permits for issues related to drilling and other such surface disturbances may be required. The proximity to the geothermal production wells and known subsurface plumbing system may require additional permits and additional operating steps for drilling on the project with blowout prevention technology.
No estimate of gold mineralized material utilizing acceptable Canadian Institute of Mining and Metallurgy standards has been calculated for the Beowawe property due to the early stage of exploration work on the property. In addition, no known metallurgical testing has been performed on any type of sampling medium from the Beowawe property.
In June 2006, Apollo announced that they had applied for drill permits to complete a drill program on the property.
Cobb Creek Property
The Cobb Creek Property-McCall Area is located in the Independence Trend in northern Elko County, Nevada, approximately 5 miles southwest of the town of Mountain City, Nevada. The property consists of 51 claims covering approximately 1,000 acres on the Humboldt National Forest. The property is accessible approximately 90 miles from Elko, following I-80 expressway to Nevada highway 225, north to Maggie Summit Road. At Maggie Summit Road, turn west off paved highway NV 225 to Bieroth Ranch Road, which is taken to the west for 5 miles on a gravel and dirt road to the property.
BH Minerals Inc. (“BH”) entered into a lease/purchase agreement dated as of December 24, 2003 for the Cobb Creek claims with claim owners, the Pescios and Don Jennings. Mr. Jennings’ interest is 51% and the Pescios’ is 49%. BH will make the following lease payments to the Pescios and Mr. Jennings:
1. $45,000 no later than January 15, 2004;
2. $40,000 first anniversary;
3. $50,000 second anniversary;
4. $75,000 third anniversary;
5. $100,000 fourth anniversary;
6. $125,000 fifth anniversary;
7. $150,000 sixth anniversary and each anniversary thereafter.
BH will complete at least 5,000 feet of drilling on the property in year one followed by a yearly commitment of 5,000 feet until completion of the bankable feasibility. BH shall have the option to pay the Pescios $10 per foot committed to and not drilled and to purchase 1% of the 3% production royalty for $1,500,000 prior to completion of the bankable feasibility study.
In a letter dated December 23, 2003, Staccato Gold Resources Ltd. (“Staccato”) agreed to acquire the property on a joint venture 50/50 basis with Bell Coast Capital Corporation (“Bell Coast”). Bell Coast will pay the first payment of $45,000 to acquire the property on behalf of the joint venture and Staccato will pay to Bell Coast $22,500 plus shares on completion of a financing scheduled to take place in January 2004.
As part of the Arrangement, Allied Nevada will acquire the Pescios’ interest in the Cobb Creek Property from the Pescios. The Pescios are the holders of a royalty on the claims, and the holders of a 49% beneficial or record ownership interest in certain of the claims.
An approved Plan of Operations Permit and/or Letter of Intent Permit with the U.S. Forest Service, is necessary to conduct any work plan on the U.S. Forest Service Lands.
Geology
The project area is situated in the Basin and Range province, characterized by north-northeast trending mountain ranges separated by alluvial filled valleys. The project area is specifically located in the Independence Mountains, which has its highest points at 10,438 feet (at McAfee) and 10,198 feet (at Jacks). The climate is characterized by winters with temperatures between 0 and 40 degrees Fahrenheit and summer temperatures between 35 and 85 degrees Fahrenheit.
The stratigraphy at the Cobb Creek Property consists of the western facies, Ordovician Valmy Group comprised of the lowermost greenstones and argillite of the Snow Canyon formation equivalent to the Rodeo Creek formation in the Carlin district and Comus formation in the Getchell/Pinson/Chimney district. Underlying the Snow Canyon/Rodeo Creek formation are carbonates of the Van Duzer formation consistent with the carbonate units beneath the Valmy elsewhere in the Independence Range, Gold Acres, and the Carlin district. In these gold deposits the carbonate units are called the Popovich/Wenban, Hanson Creek and Roberts Mountain formation in the eastern facies, lower plate. Three periods of structural deformation at Cobb Creek include late Paleozoic age N40E and N70E asymmetrical fold axis, low angle shear features, and strong N70E striking shear fabric in the greenstones; Mesozoic age N60-70W structures; and late Cretaceous age, high angle N30E and N30W trending structures.
The gold mineralization at Cobb Creek-McCall occurs within an altered andesite to basaltic rock unit cut by quartzcalcite gold bearing veins. The gold mineralization, from the past literature at Cobb Creek-McCall is thought to be formed from mesothermal gold solutions related to sheared, greenstone beds in the Valmy Formation. Conflicting evidence has resulted in differing opinions on the age of mineralization, whether the alteration and gold mineralization is related to Tertiary (30-40 Ma) as typical at Jerritt Canyon or the older, 110 to 80 Ma range. Gold mineralization is primarily associated with argillized greenstones with quartz-pyrite-arsenopyrite stockwork, veining, and breccias. The strong structural control on this gold mineralization is displayed by the association with low angle quartz-calcite mineralized zones near argillized fault zones and spatially associated with the intersections of N60-70W, N30E, and N30-35W structures. At McCall, the ore zones show distinctive resistivity highs with no associated aeromagnetic response. Geochemistry shows a strong correlation between gold and arsenic. However, on a broader scale the metal geochemistry for Au, Ag, As, Sb, Cu, and Mo does not appear to change between fresh and unaltered rock. Therefore, previous workers conclude that the high regional metal geochemistry is not related to mineralization but to regional alteration from a depositional phenomenon or a large convection system at depth.
A third party technical report completed on September 18, 2006, by Michael R. Pawlowski, a Consultant from Gilbert Arizona, indicated the work at the Cobb Creek Property has not been sufficient to define mineralized material. All geological data including 72 drill holes with 5-foot gold drill hole assays, trench sampling gold assays and surveys taken from historical data on the Cobb Creek-McCall exploration programs in the 1980’s and 1990’s of BHP/Utah and Orvana have been put into a database. All past geological data at the Staccato office in Elko, Nevada was reviewed and appears to be within past industry standards. Additional sample verification of BHP/Utah and Orvana’s drill hole assays is needed to result in an estimate of mineralized material. The drill hole intercepts are thought to represent true widths, but can not be verified, due to the flatlying replacement nature of the gold mineralization and feeder structures in Carlin type gold deposits, similar to many other gold deposits in northeast Nevada.
Most of the Cobb Creek area is covered by alluvium, which hinders exploration but allows potential opportunities for covered targets. Cobb Creek offers untested potential for deep underground, structurally controlled “Carlin-type” deposits. Targets for future exploration drilling in the Cobb Creek-McCall zone are in a series of major low-angle thrust faults and steep fault structures that has trapped gold mineralization in the favorable, receptive host rock in the upper plate Ordovician Valmy limestones/greenstones or more likely, the lower plate, Devonian-Mississippian Van Duzer limestone.
A two-phase exploration program is recommended for the Cobb Creek project. The Phase One exploration program, estimated to cost $304,000, includes primarily deep drill holes at McCall to test for high-grade, Carlin-type feeder structure; step-out drilling at the McCall and Beaver zones; geologic data compilation and reconnaissance to identify and then claim stake additional targets; and preliminary metallurgical studies. The Phase Two exploration program, estimated to cost $358,000, includes primarily in-fill drilling at McCall followed by a preliminary scoping and permitting for drilling, environmental, and additional metallurgical studies to serve as a basis for future decisions.
Dixie Flats Project
The Dixie Flats Project is a pediment play located in the southern Carlin Trend, Elko County, Nevada.
The Dixie Flats Project was originally acquired from BHP International Minerals Inc. (“BHP”) in September 1998, and currently consists of 5 3/4 sections (approximately 3680 acres) including 134 leased claims (Pescio lease), and 1280 acres of leased fee ground (E.L. Cord Foundation lease). The Dixie Flats Project was owned by Bell Coast and is now under option to Staccato who owns a 100% interest, subject to a 2% NSR held by the property vendor, Carl Pescio. Under a letter agreement, Staccato must pay $65,000 AMR.
As part of the Arrangement, Allied Nevada will acquire the Pescios’ interest in the Dixie Flats Project from the Pescios. Allied Nevada will own certain of the Dixie Flats royalties while Staccato maintains its 100% interest in the property subject to the royalties. Staccato has an option to acquire 1% NSR for $1.5 million prior to the completion of a bankable feasibility study.
Geology
The Piñon Range is underlain by a thick sequence of Paleozoic carbonate and clastic sedimentary rocks, consisted of Devonian eastern assemblage carbonate rocks, Mississippian to Permian overlap assemblage clastic and carbonate rocks, and tertiary sedimentary and volcanic rocks.
Webb Formation is the basal unit of the overlap assemblage and unconformably overlies Devils Gate Limestone. Calcareous mudstones, siltstones, and sandstones in the lower part of the Webb are the dominant host for gold deposits in the southern Carlin Trend. The Webb Formation and overlying Chainman Shale and Diamond Peak Formation represent a coarsening-upward, mostly clastic sequence that records the filling of the foreland basin beginning with fine-grained mudstone, limestone, shale and siltstone and followed by coarse-grained sandstone and conglomerate.
The Paleozoic rocks are intruded by Tertiary dikes and overlain by Tertiary sedimentary and volcanic rocks including the Elko Formation, Indian Well Formation, and an unnamed basalt unit.
Rocks at the Evans Mine Property are a sequence of reactive Antler Sequence limestones and clastic rocks which were deposited unconformably on the upper plate of the Roberts Mountains allochthon. The Evans Mine section is stratigraphically lower than the Webb Formation, but a potential reactive host is in the Oxyoke Canyon Sandstone of the underlying Devonian Nevada Group. At the Evans Mine, a small barite prospect, mineralization occurs as strataformal replacement bodies in Devonian limestone and dolomite along a north-northeast trending fault. Anomalous gold and arsenic in jasperized limestone have been reported from local trenches and pits.
The target at Dixie Flats is a Rain-style gold deposit hosted in Mississippian Webb Formation at its contact with the underlying Devonian Devils Gate Limestone. The Rain and Emigrant Springs deposits are typified by baritic jasperoid
breccias in the Webb Formation along high-angle faults. Dixie Flats targets are blind and complicated by basin-and-range normal faulting. Paleozoic bedrock is at a prospective depth in the western portions of the project area as indicated by geophysics and previous drilling.
CSAMT profiles clearly define the northeast-trending boundary of the deep Dixie Flats basin to the east. BHP completed gravity, CSAMT, ground magnetics, soil gas, and sagebrush biogeochemistry surveys over all the property. The CSAMT profiles reveal northeast-striking horst and graben structures in the shallower parts of the Dixie Flats basin. Numerous soil gas and sagebrush geochemical anomalies coincide with CSAMT linears.
Cordex and BHP drilled 17 widely spaced reverse-circulation holes ranging from 440 to 960 feet in depth on the property in 1996-1997. Seven holes penetrated the Webb Formation target horizon. Significant gold grades were encountered in three holes, with the best intercept of 30 feet of 0.012 ounces per ton in Cordex hole DX-5 in Section 7. Bedrock is at a depth of 155 to 720+ feet in the drill holes, and Webb Formation is at a depth of 500+ feet. CSAMT, drilling, and sagebrush geochemistry indicate shallow targets in Sections 5 of the current land position.
In the year 2000, High Desert Mineral Resources of Nevada, Inc. (“High Desert”) completed approximately 22 square miles of geologic mapping on BLM, Tomera Stonehouse Ranch, and Bank of Chicago land to the west, east, and south of the Dixie Flats Project. Geologic mapping concentrated on delineating volcanic stratigraphy in the Indian Well Formation and structure in the southern part of the Dixie Flats claim block. The Indian Well Formation was broken into four main units and further subdivided during mapping. Thirty-nine samples of altered Indian Well Formation tuff and chalcedony-calcite veins were collected and analyzed for gold. The altered tuffs and veins appear to be barren of gold suggesting that the Indian Well Formation may be younger than any gold mineralizing events in the mapped area.
The work to date has defined numerous drill targets on the ground based upon anomalies from multiple techniques. The regional mapping has assisted in suggesting the potential location of the Rain structure as it may cross onto the property.
Previous drilling has demonstrated that there will be high water flow requiring extra compressors for reverse circulation drilling or extra lost-circulation controls for a diamond-drilling program. A two-phased work program is recommended to drill test the project. The recommended Phase I program is estimated to cost $275,000. A second phase of drilling would be conducted contingent upon favorable results of the first phase. The location of these Phase II holes would be identified as Phase I was being completed. Phase II as proposed, is estimated to cost $375,000.
Elevations range from 5400 to 6300 feet. To access the property from Elko, Nevada, one can follow the Bullion Road, an improved dirt road, southwest for approximately 20 miles along the road. No utilities were observed on or near the property. All essential services such as fuel, food and lodging are available in Elko.
The temperatures are cool to cold during the winter and are warm during the summer with cool nights. The vegetation varies depending on elevation and moisture. Sagebrush and sparse grasses thrive on the valley floors while mountain mahogany, juniper and pinion trees grow on the lower slopes of the ranges. Exploration and mining could be conducted year-round, due to the established road and its proximity to Elko. The property has sufficient area within the claim boundaries for future exploration or mining operations including potential tailings storage areas, potential waste disposal areas, heap leach pads areas and potential processing plant sites. Surface rights must be acquired but it is not expected to be a problem given there has not been a problem in obtaining the access in the past.
The Dixie Flats project area was previously explored by Cordex Exploration (“Cordex”) and BHP. Cordex leased the Pescio claims in November 1995 and the intervening Cord Foundation ground in March 1996. They completed six line-miles of CSAMT and drilled ten reverse circulation holes in 1996. The holes were drilled in Sections 5, 7, 8 and 18 and range in depth from 645 to 960 feet for a total of 8360 feet. The Webb Formation was oxidized and silicified in three of the holes, and gold mineralization was encountered in two holes (DX-5 and DX-6 in Section 7, T31N, R54E). The best gold intercept was 0.012 opt from 730 to 760 feet in DX-5. Gold mineralization is associated with brecciated, silicified, and oxidized alteration in the Webb Formation. The mineralization contains variable amounts of barite and pyrite. Cordex subsequently dropped the property late in 1996.
BHP staked Section 30, T31N, R54E and Section 36, T31N, R53E south of the Cordex Holdings in 1996. They acquired the Pescio and Cord Foundation ground in 1997 and staked Sections 28 and 32, T32N, R54E to complete the maximum land package but these BHP staked claims have been relinquished and are no longer part of the land holdings.
BHP completed gravity, CSAMT, ground magnetics, soil gas and sagebrush biogeochemical surveys over all the current land position in 1996-1997. The sagebrush survey revealed gold and trace element anomalies that correspond to north-, northeast-, and east-west-trending CSAMT linears.
BHP drilled seven reverse-circulation holes in 1996 and 1997 in Sections 7, 30 and 32. The holes ranged from 440 to 950 feet in depth for a total of 5075 feet. Bedrock is at a depth of 155 to 720+ feet in the drill holes, and Webb Formation is at a depth of 500+ feet. CSAMT, drilling, and sagebrush geochemistry indicate shallow targets in Sections 5 of the current land position.
High Desert completed approximately 22 square miles of geologic mapping in the year 2000 on BLM, Tomera Stonehouse Ranch, and Bank of Chicago land to the west, east and south of the Dixie Flats project. This is in addition to mapping that was completed in 1999 on Newmont and Maggie Creek Ranch land to the north and west of the Dixie Flats claim block. Geologic mapping in 2000 concentrated on delineating volcanic stratigraphy in the Indian Well Formation and structure in the southern part of the Dixie Flats Claim block. Indian Well Formation tuffs that could be traced for tens of miles along the eastern flank of the Piñon Range were also evaluated for their potential as a host for gold deposits.
Thirty-nine samples of altered tuff, siltstone and limestone were collected and analyzed for gold. All samples were barren of gold. No physical work has been completed on the Dixie Flats claim blocks since 2000 due to budgetary constraints.
The early project sampling was conducted using industry standard professional sampling techniques. There are extensive reports and data detailing the sampling methods and analyses procedures used by the previous lessee companies and is available for review and verification within the project files housed in Elko, Nevada. The sample preparations and analyses were conducted by large professional mining companies, who used professional assaying laboratories for their samples taken in the Dixie Flats Project area.
No estimate of mineralized material utilizing acceptable Canadian Institute of Mining and Metallurgy standards has been calculated for Dixie Flats Project. Similarly, no metallurgical testing has been carried out on drill cuttings from the Dixie Flats Property or other types of sampling medium.
Dome Property
The Dome Property comprises four non-contiguous claim blocks totalling 19 unpatented lode mining claims located in the Cortez-Battle Mt.-Eureka Trend. The claims total approximately 380 acres and are located in the Sheep Creek Range, 20 miles north-northeast of Battle Mountain. The claims cover parts of Section 2 in Township 34 North, Range 46 East, and Sections 26 and 36 in Township 35 North, Range 46 East.
The claims which comprise the Dome Property (and the Wild Horse Property) were originally staked by Richard R. Redfern (“Redfern”) and the Pescios. The Dome Property and the Wild Horse Property were leased by Redfern and the Pescios to Senator Minerals Inc. (“Senator”) under the mining lease dated effective January 4, 2004. Redfern holds a 51% interest and the Pescios a 49% interest, in the royalties in the Dome Property.
The primary term of the mining lease is 20 years, terminable at any time by Senator upon delivery of notice. Senator may extend the term of the mining lease beyond the primary term by paying a lease payment of $60,000 per year on or before the anniversary date of the mining lease following expiration of the primary term. Under the mining lease, Senator paid the sum of $17,150 to the Pescios together with 20,000 shares of Senator’s common stock. Under the mining lease, Senator paid the sum of $8,925 to Redfern together with 20,000 shares of Senator’s common stock. Senator is obligated to pay lease payments on or before January 3 of each year during the term of the mining lease, in the amount of $35,000 on January 3, 2005, escalating to the sum of $60,000 on January 3, 2014, and each subsequent anniversary date during the primary term. Senator is obligated to pay a mineral production royalty equal to 3% NSR from the production of minerals from the Dome Property and the Wild Horse Property, subject to Senator’s option to purchase one-third of the royalty (representing 1% of the NSR) by payment of the sum of $750,000 within five years following the effective date of the mining lease or by payment of the sum of $2,000,000 at any time after five years after the effective date of the mining lease. Senator also has the option to purchase an additional one-third of the royalty (representing 1% NSR) at any time by payment of the sum of $3,000,000.
As part of the Arrangement, Allied Nevada will acquire the Pescios’ interest in the Dome Property from the Pescios. The Pescios are the holders of a royalty on the claims, and are the beneficial or record owners of certain of the claims.
Geology
The Dome Property is situated along the NNR, a Miocene age structural zone that hosts several current and past producing mines, and one major development project.
The Dome Property is in flat, grass and sagebrush-covered desert, with elevations ranging between 5,180 feet in the northwestern corner of the property and 5,360 feet along the southern property border. The climate is favorable for year-round mining, with all supplies and services needed for a successful exploration program available in the area.
Within the Great Basin province, exposed rock units range from late Pre-Cambrian meta-sediments to Pleistocene cinder cones.
The majority of rock in the property area consists of Tertiary volcanic flows, domes, pyroclastic materials, and related reworked sediments that unconformably overlie a basement composed of Ordovician Valmy Formation sediments. To the southwest of the property, rocks of the Ordovician-age Valmy Formation are overlain by Silurian-age Elder Sandstone and Devonian-age Slaven Chert.
Rhyolite float observed on the property is medium- to course-grained and very strongly silicified. Some float is porphyritic with sub-rounded quartz grains ranging from 2 mm to 10 mm. Minor fracturing is quartz-filled. Chalcedonic quartz float, possibly sinter, is locally vuggy, with botryoidal quartz growths showing weak to moderate hematite surface staining. Occasional float appears brecciated with irregular masses of cream-colored argillic alteration. Amygdaloidal basalt appears fresh, sharp-edged and generally unaltered.
Access from Battle Mountain is by paved Highway 35 for 6 miles, 8 miles on Izzenhood Road (paved secondary and gravel), then 13 miles on unimproved “two track” dirt trails to the Dome Property.
Since the late 1990s, much of the exploration focus in Nevada has been on so-called Midas-Style, deep, often bonanza grade, vein-hosted epithermal gold-silver mineralization.
In the early to mid 1990s, Western States Minerals staked an area covering the Dome Property. Exploration carried out was likely minimal as there is no evidence of trenching or drilling on the property. In 2002, geochemical rock sampling by Redfern consisted of 2 samples that are both anomalous in mercury. Sample 153355 returned slightly elevated lead, gallium and sulfur values of 27.5 ppm, 20.55 ppm and 0.56% respectively. Sample 153356 returned an elevated barium value of 1,121 ppm.
The Dome Property is at the grass-roots stage of the exploration process. Exploration has been limited to surface prospecting and limited geochemical sampling of altered bedrock. Previous work done indicates scattered argillic alteration, brecciation, silicification, anomalous mercury values, and weak gold values, possibly indicating the presence of a mineralizing system. The observed surface indications are similar to subtle features found above high-grade vein systems in the Ivanhoe and Midas districts and additional exploration is warranted.
The Dome Property does not show any evidence of previous drilling.
Recorded sampling of the Dome Property is limited to a few reconnaissance scale rock chip geochemical samples, which are marked by a metal tag bearing the sample number affixed to the sample site. Rock chip samples collected by Redfern were submitted to the Elko office of ALS Chemex for analysis by Standard Fire Assay with an atomic absorption spectrophotometry finish. No program has been initiated to systematically sample the Dome Property.
The rock samples taken by Edward Harrington, a geologist, during the Property investigation in 2003 were sent to International Plasma Laboratory Ltd (“IPL”), Vancouver, BC and the samples were maintained in locked storage until delivered to IPL for analysis.
The principal target on the Dome Property is a low-sulfidation epithermal gold-silver deposit, typically found primarily as quartz-adularia-calcite veins in volcanic rock. Veins are the typical “bonanza” type, carrying significant gold and silver. Gold grades in the percent range have been recorded for select samples from this class of deposit, which includes the Midas and Sleeper deposits.
Permits and reclamation bonds will be required for all exploration or mining activities that disturb the surface.
Other than a review of the assay certificates, land status checks, and the Dome Property examination, the information available for this property has not been verified.
Wild Horse Property
The Wild Horse Property is located 60 miles north-northwest of Elko, on the western edge of the Tuscarora Mountains between the Carlin Trend and Independence Trend. The property comprises a contiguous block of 22 unpatented lode mining
claims. The claims total approximately 440 acres and are located in the Cornucopia Mining District, Elko County, Nevada, USA. The claims cover parts of Sections 16, 20 and 21 in unsurveyed Township 42 North, Range 50 East.
As noted above under “-Dome Property”, the claims which comprise the Wild Horse Property (and the Dome Property) were originally staked by Redfern and the Pescios, and are currently controlled by Senator under a mining lease. Redfern holds a 51% interest and the Pescios a 49% interest in the royalties in the Wild Horse Property.
As part of the Arrangement, Allied Nevada will acquire the Pescios’ interest in the Wild Horse Property from the Pescios. The Pescios are the holders of a royalty on the claims, and are the beneficial or record owners of certain of the claims.
Permits and reclamation bonds are required for all exploration or mining activities that disturb the surface.
Geology
Access to the property is by paved Highways 225 and 226 for 68 miles, 6 miles on SSR-11 graded dirt road, 12 miles along the IL Ranch graded dirt road then five miles on unimproved “two track” dirt trails to the property.
The property is in moderately rugged grass- and sagebrush-covered desert. Elevations in the area range between 5,700 feet in the southwestern corner of the claim block and 6,449 feet on a hilltop in the claim block center. The topography does not impose any significant challenges for the construction of mining or milling facilities. Mining and exploration in the region takes place year-round with only occasional weather-related difficulties. Winters are cool to cold, with moderate snowfalls. Summer days are warm to hot, with cool nights. The area is fairly dry, with infrequent rains during the summer. Elko is the major local center providing almost any mining-related supplies or services. Mining can be conducted year-round in the area.
The general stratigraphic framework of the property consists of Eocene- and Oligocene-age pyroclastic volcanic rocks, overlain by Oligocene- to younger Miocene-age hot-spring sinter. Locally, volcanic rocks may be interbedded with sedimentary rocks of tuffaceous nature. Eocene-age rocks occur east of hill 6449 and are separated from Oligocene-age rocks to the west by a north-south trending fault.
The Wild Horse mineralizing system is likely bounded by the major north-south fault, interpreted to cut the eastern portion of the property, and the major Owyhee-Red Cow Creek fault corridor to the west indicated by the South Fork of the Owyhee River. The property is also reportedly cut by north-, north-northwest- and east-trending faults. The northeast-southwest orientation of the sinter cap on hill 6449 suggests a northeasterly trending fault system. At the two mines, five miles to the east of the property, mineralization is generally associated with faults that trend north-south, east-west and northeast-southwest. Northwest-trending faults tend to offset or truncate mineralized structures. Miocene-age rocks are not mineralized or altered.
From 1984 through 1989, at least four mineral exploration companies (Superior Oil Company (Minerals Division), Placid Oil Company, Freeport, and Barrick Gold Exploration Inc.) carried out work programs on and around the current property, which included 179 soil samples, 360 rock samples, 7,360 feet of reverse circulation drilling, and 5 miles of IP geophysical surveys.
In 2003, property owner Redfern conducted rock sampling. Samples were taken from banded chalcedony and quartz veining on the southwestern slope of hill 6449. Banding is interpreted to show multiple hydrothermal pulses of silica deposited in the fracture system.
With respect to mineralization, brecciated fine- to medium-grained rhyolitic tuff contains angular fragments (<3 cm) of banded chalcedonic quartz. Calcedony fragments exhibit hematite staining on fracture surfaces and local vugs. Tuff fragments show low to moderate amounts of clay alteration with little or no hematization. In the area of hill 6449, tuffs have been moderately to well silicified. Hematization is generally weak to moderate but can be very strong locally. Pyrite is reportedly the only identified sulfide mineral on the property, and occurs in trace to minor amounts disseminated within the banded chalcedony veins, breccias and rarely in silicified tuffs. No disseminated or vein-hosted sulfide mineralization was observed during the 2003 property examination.
The property is at an early stage in the exploration process. During a property examination in 2003, five rock samples were taken. Rock chip samples were taken as continuously as possible across the geological occurrence being sampled, while select samples consist of rock fragments chosen to best represent the geological occurrence being sampled.
A magnetometer survey was carried out on the property in 1987, but survey results were not available. The Wild Horse Property has had at least 7,360 feet of reverse-circulation drilling.
Recorded rock sampling of the property is limited to reconnaissance-scale rock chip geochemical samples.
The Wild Horse Property is of sufficient merit to justify the following two-phase exploration program. Phase 1 work should comprise grid location, geological mapping, and geophysical surveys estimated to cost approximately $104,000. Phase 2 is contingent on identifying suitable targets through Phase 1 work and should diamond drilling of suitable targets. As drill holes are expected to reach vertical depths of up to 1,800 feet, it is estimated that a minimum of four holes, with a combined length of 7,200 feet, may be necessary. Phase 2 is estimated to cost approximately $575,000.
Eden Property
The Eden Property is located in the Sleeper Trend 14 miles southwest of the town of Winnemucca, on the northwestern side of the East Range in the Western Nevada Rift, a set of structural features defined by aeromagnetics lineaments. The Eden Property consists of a total of 68 unpatented lode mining claims (RC claim group) comprising approximately 1,360 acres, of which 64 claims are located in Sections 4 and 8 in T34N, R36E in Pershing County and 4 claims in Section 26 T35N, R36E in Humboldt County. The property can be accessed by a frontage road along Interstate 80.
The Eden Property was sold by the owners, the Pescios, to Mill City in accordance with a purchase agreement. Mill City optioned it to Minterra along with eight other properties in letter agreements dated September 6, 2004 in which approximately 12,200 acres of U.S. Federal land in north-central Nevada were optioned including the Elder Creek, NAD, North Carlin, North Mill Creek, Switch and Six Mile, Toy and Tusk properties. Minterra has the right to earn a 60% interest in the nine properties by incurring an aggregate of $5,000,000 of exploration and development expenditures on the properties over five years, completing a minimum of 100,000 feet of drilling, and making certain cash reimbursements and issuing shares of common stock to Mill City. Minterra may elect to earn a further 10% interest in any property by completing a bankable feasibility study on the property. The Pescios will continue to receive advance royalty cash payments credited against a 3% NSR, of which 1% can be purchased prior to the start of production for $1,000,000. In 2005, the Pescios agreed that their right to receive cash payments will cease if the Minterra option agreement is terminated and will remain suspended until the property is re-optioned.
As part of the Arrangement, Allied Nevada will acquire the Pescios’ interest in the Eden Property from the Pescios. The Pescios are the holders of a royalty on the claims, and hold contractual rights that may in certain circumstances require the record owner to transfer ownership of the claims to the Pescios.
Prior to commencement of any surface disturbance, permits must be obtained from the BLM and a reclamation bond must be posted.
Geology
Elevations on the property range from around 4,300 feet to over 5,600 feet. The topography generally consists of low to high rolling hills with locally steep topography. The property is generally covered by sagebrush and grass with a few juniper and pinyon pines. The temperatures are cool to cold during the winter, with occasional moderate snowfalls, and are warm during the summer with cool nights. The climate is favorable for year-round mining, and exploration may be done from May through November.
Power for a mine/mill complex can be brought in from the various locations in the region. Water is generally not available on the surface, but can be obtained from BLM wells and other sources at various locations near the property. The claims carry with them the surface rights for mining and no local residents are present. Although the property is generally hilly, sufficient flat areas are present on or near the property area for potential processing plant sites, tailings storage areas, waste disposal areas and leach pads.
The Eden Property is underlain by Triassic marine sediments of the Grass Valley Formation of the Auld Lang Syne Group. These sediments have been intensely folded, faulted and intruded by latite and andesite sills and dikes. Strong argillic alteration and silicified zones occur along major faults throughout the property extending up to 3,000 feet from the range front. This zone of silicified and strongly argillized rock contains strongly anomalous (>0.1 ppm) gold values.
Nearly the entire Eden Property consists of the late Triassic Grass Valley Formation, a unit of shaley to massive siltstone and argillite with thin interbeds of sandstone and limestone. The formation is about 2,000 feet thick in the project area. Marker beds are not present and thrust faulting has confused the stratigraphic relationships. The Lower Grass Valley Formation consists of light grey to reddish brown siltstone beds 10 to 50 feet thick that have been metamorphosed to phyllitic, shaley siltstone and argillite. Light brown, fine- to coarse-grained feldspathic sandstone interbeds occur throughout the Lower Grass Valley section. Several beds are nearly coarse enough to be considered quartz pebble conglomerate. Other beds display cross-bedding and flute marks on their base. All sandstone beds have been metamorphosed to quartzite or
silicified to some extent and most are cut by one to three centimeter-thick white quartz veins. The Upper Grass Valley Formation contains calcareous siltstone and about 30 percent limestone interbeds. Limestone beds are light gray, finely granular, average about 30 feet thick and are weakly to moderately recrystallized.
The Late Triassic Grass valley Formation was strongly folded, thrust faulted and weakly metamorphosed during the Nevadan Orogeny in Cretaceous time. The Triassic sequence generally dips 55º to the northwest and the strata are separated into 3 northeast-trending blocks by northwest-dipping thrust faults representing two repetitions in the Triassic section. Several synclines and anticlines parallel this trend and beds are overturned locally. Several N45ºW trending normal faults offset other structures and break the property into four or five fault blocks east of the range front. The N15ºE trending range front fault scarp is the largest high-angle structure on the property, and is traceable for over 3 miles along strike. Exploration drilling indicates that the west side of the scarp has been down dropped over 400 feet.
Geologic mapping, geochemical sampling, and drilling have been completed on the Eden property. Homestake Mining Co., Freeport, and Amax Exploration (“Amax”) have all drilled on the property, and Decker Exploration apparently did no drilling. A total of 63 drill holes have been completed to date. None of the 63 holes drilled on the property have yet indicated a major economic gold deposit on the Eden Property, although significant intervals of low-grade gold were intersected in the drilling. The primary, range front- pediment target was tested and only barren gravels were encountered to depths of 450 feet, possibly indicating considerable displacement along the range front scarp. However, a target still exists beneath the gravel. None of the 20 holes drilled by Amax encountered any significant intercepts of potentially economic mineralization. The 18 Amax holes drilled along the range front and pediment indicate any gold target in this area would-be covered by 300 feet to 450 feet of alluvium. This drilling eliminated the range front area as a bulk-mineable, low-grade Amax target.
Previous operators targeted the property for a bulk-mineable low-grade gold deposit. This does not preclude the possibility of the discovery of a Sleeper-type deposit on the Eden Property. Based on available information from the previous operators the following are the reasons for concluding exploration potential remains:
•
as best that can be determined, all previous holes drilled at the Eden Property are relatively shallow. At the time of the drilling programs, depths of greater than 400 feet in the alluvium were thought to be excessive.
•
the zone of banded quartz/calcite veins most prominent along the range front fault scarp remains the primary and most viable target at the Eden Property. The pediment probably covers similar veins that could be explored below depths of 400 feet.
•
the Eden Property is located on northeast-trending range front faults which cut across the Western Nevada Rift.
•
the country rock at the Eden Property is Triassic Auld Lang Syne Group.
It is recommended that the primary focus of an exploration program at the property should be the structures occupied by banded quartz/calcite/manganese veins that are prominent along the range front. Additional claims should be staked in the NW corner of Section 4 along the range front to cover pediment on the north end of the property, and private property along the range front trend should be acquired. Exploration along the pediment/range front scarp could begin immediately in the southwestern claims. Another look at structural zones and breccias east of the pediment/range front scarp in the Triassic country rock, or in preserved volcanics, could generate viable targets.
Elder Creek Property
The Elder Creek Property is located in the Cortez-Battle Mt.-Eureka Trend and consists of 23 unpatented lode mining claims comprising approximately 460 acres and located about 11 kilometers southeast of the North Mill Creek property primarily in Section 13, T28N, R45E, and Sections 18 and 19, T28N, R46E, approximately 10-11 kilometers northwest of the Gold Acres mine and Pipeline deposit. The town of Battle Mountain lies 40 kilometers to the north- northwest of the property.
The Elder Creek Property is subject to the Purchase Agreement - North Mill Creek/Elder Creek/NAD Property dated effective June 1, 2003, between the Pescios and Mill City Gold Corp. (“Mill City”), which provides for payments described below for the acquisition of the Elder Creek, North Mill Creek and NAD properties. Under the purchase agreement, Mill City agreed to pay to the Pescios the sum of $16,667 and agreed to issue 125,000 shares of the common stock of Mill City in consideration of the Pescios’ agreement to sell the Elder Creek, North Mill Creek and the NAD properties. Mill City is obligated to pay certain payments to the Pescios, beginning with $30,000 on June 1, 2004, escalating to $200,000 on June 1, 2009, and each subsequent anniversary of the effective date of the purchase agreement. On commencement of commercial production, the minimum annual payments apply to the mineral production royalty payable to the Pescios. The purchase agreement obligates Mill City to pay to the Pescios an AMR equal to 4% NSR from the production of minerals from the Elder Creek, North Mill Creek and the NAD properties, subject to the option and right of Mill City to purchase a portion of
the royalty representing 1% NSR for the sum of $1,000,000. If Mill City does not exercise the option to purchase the royalty before commencement of commercial production, Mill City’s option expires and terminates. By amendment dated May 15, 2004, the foregoing minimum payments to the Pescios were reduced by one-half and Mill City was relieved of its obligation to complete 5,000 feet of exploratory drilling on or before June 1, 2006.
The purchase agreement for the Elder Creek, North Mill Creek and the NAD properties is subject to the letter dated August 2, 2004 amending the purchase agreement. This amendment confirmed the reduction of the minimum payments by one-half and the release of Mill City from its initial exploratory drilling work commitment. This amendment also reduced the NSR payable to the Pescios under the purchase agreement from 4% to 3%.
By amending agreement in 2005, among Mill City, Minterra, Britannia Gold Corp. and the Pescios, Mill City and the Pescios agreed that the foregoing reduced minimum payments would be made on September 1 instead of June 1 each year and acknowledged and confirmed that if the option granted by Mill City to Minterra to acquire up to a 70% interest in the Elder Creek, North Mill Creek and the NAD properties terminated, the provisions of the amendment dated August 2, 2004, would apply to the purchase agreement and Mill City would be relieved of the obligation to make any minimum payments to the Pescios until such time as Mill City re-optioned the property to a third party.
As part of the Arrangement, Allied Nevada will acquire the Pescios’ interest in the Elder Creek Property from the Pescios. The Pescios are the holders of a royalty on the claims, and hold contractual rights that may in certain circumstances require the record owner to transfer ownership of the claims to the Pescios.
Geology
The geology of the Elder Creek Property consists of Ordovician Valmy Formation quartzites, chert, meta-siltstone, sandstone and greenstones. Like most of the region, this assemblage was thrust over Devonian carbonates during the Mississippian Antler Orogeny. The sedimentary rocks were intruded by dacite- andesite dikes and sills, dated at around 38 Ma. The Cortez Trend developed before these intrusions and was certainly in place at the initiation of Basin and Range structures (22 Ma).
The dominant feature of the Elder Creek property area is the Elder Creek deposit, one of many gold deposits along the northwest-oriented Cortez Trend. Gold mineralization is closely associated with northwest and northeast high-angle and bedding plane faults in upper plate rocks. Almost all faults display pre- syn- and post-mineralization movements. A thrust fault exposed in the open pit strikes N40oW and dips to the southwest along bedding. This thrust fault separates a large block of overlying unoxidized Valmy meta-siltstones, cherts, and small quartzite beds in the hanging wall, from gold-bearing quartzite in the footwall. A highly mineralized breccia zone 10 to 25 feet wide is formed by the thrust fault. Five perpendicular northeast-striking fault breccia zones in the quartzites also appear to be feeders for the main gold deposit. The Carbon fault, named for the abundant carbon along the structure, is the most dominant structural feature in the Elder Creek deposit. It transects the pit, striking northeast and dips steeply to the northwest. A prominent N65ºW to N70ºW dike-filled structure may be an important feeder zone.
In the mined area, mineralization consists of native gold associated with drusy, quartz veinlets and limonite. Hematite, goethite and jarosite are present within these veins, which appear to be a later weathering product after pyrite. The gold mineralization also occurs in clay-altered intrusive dikes and sills. Barite is also present in the mine area and consists of clear crystals found only in vugs of euhedral quartz.
Gravity and airborne magnetic data in the vicinity of the Elder Creek Property show the proximal relationship to a hidden intrusion, likely genetically related to the Gold Acres Intrusion, perhaps connected at depth. The Elder Creek Property falls along structures which offset and facet the lower plate stratigraphic section. This setting is apparent in the gravity data. The property lies within the McCoy Cove-Cortez Lineament, a structural zone that parallels the north edge of the Caetano volcanic field. The zone is typified by structural complexity, lower plate windows, intrusions and gold deposits.
The near-surface gold mineralization at Elder Creek is a guide to and possibly indicative of a high-grade gold deposit in lower plate carbonate rocks. The lower plate assemblage at the Pipeline/South Pipeline deposits host several million ounces of gold, including high-grade gold along the feeder structures. The Elder Creek Property has potential for high-grade gold along exposed structures where they intersect lower plate rocks at depth. Drilling on the property has yet to test this target.
Access is from Beowawe on State Highway 306 approximately 40 kilometers south down Crescent Valley, then approximately 16 kilometers west along gravel roads and jeep trails. Elevations range from 5,000 feet to over 7,200 feet. The topography can be locally severe and generally consists of low to high rolling hills. The property is generally covered by sagebrush and grass with a juniper and pinion pines. The temperatures are cool to cold during the winter, with occasional moderate snowfalls, and are warm during the summer with cool nights. The climate is favorable for year-round mining and
exploration may be done from May through November, after which road access is limited by snow during the winter and mud in the spring. Conditions can vary from year to year.
Water is generally not available on the surface, but can be obtained from BLM wells and various locations near the properties. The claims carry with them the surface rights for mining. There are sufficient flat areas present on or near the property areas for potential processing plant sites, tailings storage areas, waste disposal areas and leach pads.
The Elder Creek gold mineralized zone was discovered by Mapco in 1984. NERCO bought Mapco in 1985 and drilled the anomalous areas. In 1988, Alta Gold entered into a joint venture with NERCO to put Elder Creek into production and the mine had a daily average production of combined gold-bearing rock and waste of 12,000 tonnes.
Drilling of a series of deep holes on the Elder Creek Property is recommended. Extensive soil and rock sampling, various geophysical surveys and drilling have been completed on the property, but the primary target - structures intersecting the lower plate rocks - has not been tested at all on the property. The Elder Creek Property exhibits major structures and Carlin-style geochemistry.
Surface and drill hole sampling were conducted prior to the involvement of Minterra and it is assumed that the sampling methods employed were industry standards based on the professionalism exhibit by NERCO and Mapco. It is further assumed that the surface and drill samples of previous programs were prepared and secured to industry standards in light of the use of industry accepted assay laboratories.
Prior to commencement of any surface disturbance, permits must be obtained from the appropriate office of the BLM which permits exploration activities such as trenching, drilling or construction of new roads.
Minterra has not conducted any metallurgical or related tests on any material from the Elder Creek Property and there are no data available from previous operators pertaining to mineral processing or metallurgical testing.
NAD Property
The NAD Property is located in the Cortez-Battle Mt.-Eureka Trend and consists of ten NAD unpatented lode mining claims comprising approximately 200 acres located in Sections 15 and 16, T27N, R46E, Lander County, Nevada. The property is 48 kilometers southeast of the town of Battle Mountain. The claims are within eight kilometers of the Gold Acres mine and Pipeline deposits, located to the northeast of the property, and within 16 kilometers of the Cortez mine and the Cortez Hills deposit, southeast of the property. The NAD claims cover a series of major northeast trending structures.
The NAD Property was sold by the owner, the Pescios, to Mill City, who optioned it to Minterra along with eight other properties. For a description of the principal terms of the purchase agreement relating to the NAD Property, see “- Elder Creek Property”.
As part of the Arrangement, Allied Nevada will acquire the Pescios’ interest in the NAD Property from the Pescios. The Pescios are the holders of a royalty on the claims, and hold contractual rights that may in certain circumstances require the record owner to transfer ownership of the claims to the Pescios.
Geology
The NAD claim area is underlain by Paleozoic upper-plate siliciclastic rocks composed of quartzite, siltstone, chert, and black shale, which crop out along a low-lying northeast-trending ridge. The Paleozoic sediments are overlain by Tertiary gravels on the north and northwest, Tertiary welded tuff on the southwest, and Quaternary alluvium on the south and east. Altered dikes were intersected in the drilling and are seen on the surface. A gold anomaly in soil and rock exists in the area of exposed upper plate rocks, with the highest values appearing to be closely associated with the northwest striking faults. The chert and shale on the west side of the ridge are mapped as the Devonian Slaven Chert, and the quartzite holding up the east part of the ridge is mapped as Ordovician Valmy Formation. The Valmy Formation and Slaven Chert are mapped in thrust contact along a west-northwest trending fault placing the Valmy over the Slaven.
Given the similarity of the Valmy and Slaven, the formational assignments are speculative in the absence of fossil dates. Field relations and drill logs indicate that the chert-shale-siltstone package and the quartzite are gradational through a thick zone of mixed chert-siltstone containing quartzite lenses. The chert-shale-quartzite sequence may be a normal Valmy assemblage and a thrust relationship with the Slaven is not necessary. The existence of a west-northwest trending structure separating dominantly chert-shale from dominantly quartzite is supported by alteration and geochemistry, but the fault may be a high-angle normal structure rather than a thrust fault.
There are no lower plate carbonate rocks exposed within or adjacent to the property, but lower plate rocks are projected to underlie the area. The southwest edge of the Gold Acres Window lies 5 kilometers to the northeast and the west edge of the Cortez Window lies 11 kilometers to the east of the property. Depth to the lower plate in the NAD area is entirely speculative and is constrained only by N. A. Degerstrom’s shallow drilling which remained in the upper plate to depths of 400 feet.
Degerstrom owned the original NAD property and they drilled 26 holes mostly along the northeast trending ridge in the area of a strong geochemical anomaly. Newmont Exploration drilled seven holes, mostly north of the mineralized ridge, to a maximum of 1,000 feet. Placer Dome U.S. (Cortez Joint Venture) drilled five holes scattered around the Degerstrom property. Royal Gold drilled eight holes during 1996 and 1997. Gold Fields Exploration drilled a 3,000-foot hole in 2000 without hitting any significant mineralization or intersecting the lower plate sequence. No drilling has been conducted by Mill City or Minterra. Great Basin Geophysics was contracted to conduct a gravity survey along the NAD property area.
A soil survey performed by Degerstrom over the property on a 200 foot by 200 foot grid covering the original claim block of 113 claims indicates that the topographic ridge of Paleozoic rock hosts low-grade mineralization in the sediments along with areas of significant high-grade gold enrichment. A separate weaker anomaly lies along the south flank of the ridge at its eastern end.
Gravity and airborne magnetic data in the vicinity of the NAD Property show the proximal relationship of the property to an intrusion. The NAD Property lies directly across the Gold Acres Intrusion from the Pipeline deposit, and lies along structures which offset and facet the lower plate stratigraphic section. This setting is apparent in the gravity data. The NAD Property lies within the McCoy Cove-Cortez Lineament, a structural zone that parallels the north edge of the Caetano volcanic field.
Access is approximately 40 kilometers south along State Highway 306 from Beowawe, then south-southwest along a well-maintained gravel road another 8 kilometers to a jeep trail to the property. Elevations range from 5,000 feet to over 7,200 feet. The topography can be locally severe and generally consists of low to high rolling hills. The properties are generally covered by sagebrush and grass with a juniper and pinyon pines. The temperatures are cool to cold during the winter, with occasional moderate snowfalls, and are warm during the summer with cool nights. The climate is favorable for year-round mining and exploration may be done from May through November, after which road access is limited by snow during the winter and mud in the spring. Conditions can vary from year to year.
Water is generally not available on the surface, but can be obtained from BLM wells and various locations near the properties. The claims carry with them the surface rights for mining. There are sufficient flat areas present on or near the property areas for potential processing plant sties, tailings storage areas, waste disposal areas and leach pads.
The exposed upper plate rocks at the NAD property have been tested without reaching lower plate carbonates. The northeast structural zone has only received limited shallow drilling, also without testing lower plate rocks. Therefore, potential remains at the NAD property to find high-grade gold mineralization within lower plate carbonate rocks, especially along and west of the northeast structural zone.
Drilling of a series of deep holes is recommended. Extensive soil and rock sampling, various geophysical surveys and drilling have been completed on the NAD Property, but the primary target - structures intersecting the lower plate rocks - has not been tested.
Surface and drill hole sampling were conducted prior to the involvement of Minterra and it is assumed that the sampling methods employed were industry standards based on the professionalism exhibited by Newmont Exploration, Placer Dome U.S., Royal Gold and Gold Fields Exploration. It is further assumed that the surface and drill samples of previous programs were prepared and secured to industry standards in light of the use of industry accepted assay laboratories.
Prior to commencement of any surface disturbance, permits must be obtained from the appropriate office of the BLM which permits exploration activities such as trenching, drilling or construction of new roads. A reclamation bond must be posted prior to any surface disturbance on the property; however, no EIS is needed to conduct such work in the area in which the property is located.
Minterra has not conducted any metallurgical or related tests on any material from the NAD Property and there are no data available from previous operators pertaining to mineral processing or metallurgical testing.
North Carlin Property
The North Carlin Property lies in the southern portion of the main Carlin Trend, currently the largest and most productive group of gold deposits in North America. The property consists of 36 unpatented lode mining claims comprising
approximately 720 acres and located in Section 2, T33N, R52E within the Carlin Trend, just 4 miles north of the town of Carlin in Elko County, Nevada. The claim area is entirely covered with Tertiary sediments of the Carlin Formation east of the Carlin Window, and the claims were located to cover the southeast projection of the Carlin Window.
The North Carlin Property was sold by the owner, the Pescios to Mill City who optioned it to Minterra along with nine other properties, comprising approximately 12,200 acres of Federal land, in a letter agreement dated September 6, 2004. Minterra has the right to earn a 60% interest in the nine properties by incurring an aggregate of $5,000,000 of exploration and development expenditures on the properties over five years, completing a minimum of 100,000 feet of drilling, and making certain cash reimbursements and issuing shares of common stock to Mill City. Minterra may elect to earn a further 10% interest in any property by completing a bankable feasibility study on the property. The Pescios will continue to receive advance royalty cash payments credited against a 3% NSR, of which 1% can be purchased prior to the start of production for $1,000,000. In 2005, the Pescios agreed that their right to receive cash payments will cease if the Minterra option agreement is terminated and will remain suspended until the property is re-optioned.
The nine properties under option to Minterra are held by Mill City as per letter agreements signed in 2003 (revised in 2004) with the claim locator, the Pescios. Under the agreement for the North Carlin property, Mill City has paid $16,667 and issued 125,000 common shares of Mill City to the Pescios in exchange for a 100% interest in the property. An amount of $1,667 was paid at the time of signing of the letter agreement and $5,000 and issuance of the common shares within 5 business days of the parties signing the agreement. An amount of $5,000 was paid within 45 days of the parties signing the agreement and $5,000 within 90 days of the parties signing the agreement. The Pescios were granted a NSR of 3%, and escalating property payments are to be made to the Pescios beginning within 60 days of the date a third party enters into an option agreement with Mill City. Minterra agrees to reimburse Mill City for all filing fees and/or holding costs for the property paid by August 30, 2004 for the 2004-2005 assessment year, and Minterra commits to pay all 2005-2006 BLM, County fees and holding costs for the property.
Mill City and the Pescios have a two mile AOI for the North Carlin property that requires either party to notify the other if either party stakes claims or otherwise acquires any property around the original claim block. This newly acquired property may become part of the property agreement. Minterra and Mill City have subsequently agreed that any further claims that may be staked or acquired to expand the area of any of the projects shall be considered part of such project and shall be subject to the Minterra/Mill City agreement.
As part of the Arrangement, Allied Nevada will acquire the Pescios’ interest in the North Carlin Property from the Pescios. The Pescios are the holders of a royalty on the claims, and hold contractual rights that may in certain circumstances require the record owner to transfer ownership of the claims to the Pescios.
Geology
The project area is covered by post mineralization, Tertiary Carlin Formation and minor volcanic rocks which conceal any alteration or mineralization. The North Carlin Property has never been explored due to the cover rocks and what has been perceived as an excessive depth to favorable host rocks. As part of its EIS to expand nearby mines, water monitoring holes were drilled by Newmont Exploration from 1992 to 1996. One line of water monitoring holes drilled south of the North Carlin Property show the depth through Tertiary cover to lower plate carbonate rocks varies from 1,000 feet to 1,665 feet. It is a reasonable assumption that depths to favorable host rocks on the North Carlin Property will be comparable.
Altered Webb Formation outcrops approximately 3 miles northeast and south of the North Carlin Property.
Major northwest-trending structures, as evidenced by the abrupt north-northwest deflection of the Humboldt River, are seen south of the North Carlin Property and are indicative of the likely structural fabric on the property. Regional gravity and airborne magnetic data for the area indicate that the North Carlin Property is favorably located midway between two large intrusive complexes. Landsat imagery indicates that a strong northeast-trending lineament and a north-south structure intersect in the claim block, likely indicative of a favorable structural setting in lower plate rocks beneath the gravel cover.
The North Carlin Property lies in the southern portion of the main Carlin Trend, currently the largest and most productive group of gold deposits in North America. More than 40 separate deposits have been defined since disseminated gold mineralization in carbonate rocks was first discovered in November, 1961 by Newmont Exploration geologists in the Trench B discovery.
The North Carlin Property is located in terrain typical of north-central Nevada Basin and Range high desert physiography. Elevations on the property are around 5,000 feet to over 5,200 feet. The topography generally consists of low rolling hills and the property is covered by sagebrush and grass. The climate is favorable for year-round mining and
exploration may be done from May through November, after which road access is limited by snow during the winter and mud in the spring. Conditions can be highly variable from year to year (Abbott, 2003).
A highly trained mining-industrial workforce is available throughout north-central Nevada. Power for a mine/mill complex can be brought in from the various locations in the region. Water is generally not available on the surface, but can be obtained from BLM wells and other sources at various locations near the property. The claims carry with them the surface rights for mining, and sufficient flat areas are present on or near the property area for potential processing plant sites, tailings storage areas, waste disposal areas and leach pads.
The North Carlin Property is an early-stage exploration project. There is no information concerning any prior exploration work available for the North Carlin Property. Minterra, Mill City or Mr. Pescio have not drilled any holes nor defined any gold mineralized material on the property. As there are no historic or current gold mineralized materials for the North Carlin Property, there is no evidence of any mineral production from the property.
No gold mineralization has been detected on the surface of the North Carlin Property. The property is covered in large part by recent gravels and the bedrock portions of the property have not been sampled.
No assays are available from Newmont Exploration water wells drilled near the North Carlin Property. No drilling was conducted on the North Carlin Property itself and no sample information is available for the property.
Prior to commencement of any surface disturbance, Minterra must obtain permits from the BLM office in Elko, Nevada which permit activities such as trenching, drilling, or construction of new roads. Minterra must also post a reclamation bond prior to performing any surface disturbance on the property; however, no EIS is needed to conduct such work in the district in which the property is located.
Data are primarily from published sources. It is therefore concluded that all data pertaining to the North Carlin property area are accurate and reliable.
North Mill Creek Property
The North Mill Creek Property is located in the Cortez-Battle Mt.-Eureka Trend in Section 24, T29N, R44E, Lander County, Nevada, approximately 29 kilometers south-southwest of the town of Battle Mountain. The six unpatented lode mining claims comprising approximately 120 acres cover upper plate folded and faulted Valmy Formation siltstone, shale and quartzite.
For a description of the principal terms of the purchase agreement relating to the North Mill Creek Property, see “Elder Creek Property”.
As part of the Arrangement, Allied Nevada will acquire the Pescios’ interest in the North Mill Creek Property from the Pescios. The Pescios are the holders of a royalty on the claims, and hold contractual rights that may in certain circumstances require the record owner to transfer ownership of the claims to the Pescios.
Geology
The North Mill Creek Property is located on the western edge of the Goat Ridge Window within an allochthonous stack of imbricate thrust slices of western siliceous facies sediments of the Ordovician Valmy Formation on the west flank of the Shoshone Range. The allochthonous Valmy sediments have been thrust eastward along the Roberts Mountains Thrust Fault, over autochthonous lower plate, eastern carbonate facies sediments. The lower plate assemblage is the preferential host rock for gold mineralization within the Cortez Trend. Favorable lower plate stratigraphy is exposed within the Goat Ridge Window which is located about 2,500 feet east of the North Mill Creek Property. The window of lower plate rocks is exposed because a series of major northwest-trending dextral dip-slip faults appear to have effectively upthrown the central structural block at a flexure point in the main structural zone. This phase of deformation is superimposed upon the lower plate rocks and has structurally interfingered both upper and lower plate assemblages. A series of at least four intrusive events has affected the area and previous drilling has intersected dikes and tremolite-epidote-quartz-calcite alteration.
Soil and rock sampling results of the deformed Valmy siltstones, shales, quartzites and carbonates have indicated that a large area, 800 feet by 3,200 feet, has very anomalous concentrations of arsenic, antimony and mercury. This geochemical anomaly is also moderately anomalous in gold and is spatially associated with a series of northwest trending high-angle faults which are part of the Goat Ridge Window structural complex as well as a northwest-trending dip slope exposure of one of a series of stacked thrust faults.
Access is south from Battle Mountain approximately 20 miles south on State Highway 305, then east along jeep trails for about 5 miles. Elevations range from 5,000 feet to over 7,200 feet. The topography can be locally severe and generally consists of low to high rolling hills. The property is generally covered by sagebrush and grass with juniper and pinion pines. The climate is favorable for year-round mining and exploration may be done from May through November, after which road access is limited by snow during the winter and mud in the spring. Conditions can vary from year to year.
Water is generally not available on the surface, but can be obtained from BLM wells and various locations near the properties. The claims carry with them the surface rights for mining. There are sufficient flat areas present on or near the property areas for potential processing plant sites, tailings storage areas, waste disposal areas and leach pads.
Airborne magnetic data in the vicinity of the North Mill Creek Property show the property is situated directly on the Mt. Lewis Caldera’s margin. The property lies within the McCoy-Cove-Cortez Lineament, a structural zone that parallels the north edge of the Caetano volcanic field. The zone is typified by structural complexity, lower plate windows, intrusions and gold deposits.
Drilling to date on the North Mill Creek Property has failed to test lower plate rocks. Deep drilling has intersected bleached siltstone, possible hornfels, and abundant calcite veining at depth in upper plate rocks, which would be expected near decalcified ore zones in lower plate rocks. Work completed to date at North Mill Creek has demonstrated the potential for a structurally controlled high-grade gold deposit within the lower plate carbonate assemblage. Strong surface alteration and geochemistry indicate the intensity of the system; however, the target remains untested.
Three adits were apparently the first exploration work in the North Mill Creek area. Additional early work consists of a series of five bulldozer cuts which expose a northwest trending, 20o to 40o southwesterly-dipping thrust cemented with quartz, calcite with limonite. NERCO located claims in 1998 and drilled three reverse circulation rotary (“RCR”) holes. Cyprus Minerals, Inc. drilled three reverse circulation holes (435, 320 feet, and 485 feet) in 1995 to test these surface anomalies, and encountered strongly broken Valmy sediments with strongly anomalous arsenic, antimony and mercury values. Eastfield Resources drilled two RCR holes in 1996 and one in 1997. Barrick drilled a hole in September 1998 and did not intercept any anomalous gold. No drilling has been conducted by Mill City or Minterra.
Drilling of a series of deep holes on the North Mill Creek Property is recommended. Extensive soil and rock sampling, various geophysical surveys and drilling have been completed on the property, but the primary target - structures intersecting the lower plate rocks - has not been tested at all on the property. The North Mill Creek Property exhibits major structures and Carlin-style geochemistry along with anomalous gold in drilling at the North Mill Creek Property.
Surface and drill hole sampling were conducted prior to the involvement of Minterra and it is assumed that the sampling methods employed were industry standards based on the professionalism exhibited by NERCO, Cyprus Minerals, Inc., Eastfield Resources and Barrick. It is further assumed that the surface and drill samples of previous programs were prepared and secured to industry standards in light of the use of industry accepted assay laboratories.
Prior to commencement of any surface disturbance, permits must be obtained from the appropriate office of the BLM which permits exploration activities such as trenching, drilling or construction of new roads. A reclamation bond must be posted prior to any surface disturbance on the property; however, no EIS is needed to conduct such work in the area in which the property is located.
Minterra has not conducted any metallurgical or related tests on any material from the North Mill Creek Property and there are no data available from previous operators pertaining to mineral processing or metallurgical testing.
Pony Creek Property
The Pony Creek Property is located in the Larrabee mining district of Elko County, Nevada, in the southern half of the Carlin Trend, 28 miles southeast of the town of Carlin and 19 miles south of Newmont Gold Company’s Rain Mine.
Management of Vista has been advised by the Pescios that the Pony Creek Property consists of 584 unpatented lode mining claims (approximately 11,680 acres). The property is located across the crest of the southern part of the Pinyon Range at elevations ranging from 6,600 feet to about 8,000 feet. Access to the property from the west is by traveling the Indian Pony road off State Highway 278, or from the east via the Red Rock Ranch road off a junction with State highway 228.
Pursuant to an agreement with the Pescios, Mill City owns a 100% interest in the property and pays the Pescios a NSR of 3%. Escalating annual property payments must be made to the Pescios and Mill City may purchase 1.0% of the 3.0% NSR for a total of $1 million. Mill City must also pay annual rentals to the BLM of $125 per claim on or before September 1 of each year and appropriate county filing fees to the Elko County Recorder on or before November 1 of each year.
If the conditions stated in the option agreement signed July 27, 2004 between Grandview, Mill City and the Pescios are satisfied, then the NSR will be reduced to 2% and Grandview will be given the option to purchase 1% of the 2% NSR, up to the time of commencement of production from the property for $1.5 million.
Pursuant to this option agreement with Mill City on July 27, 2004, Grandview Gold Inc. earned an option to purchase a 60% interest in the property and committed to spend a minimum of $3.5 million by July 31, 2007, complete a minimum of 30,000 feet of drilling on the Pony Creek and Elliot Dome properties and assume all BLM and County fees with respect to the property. By an amendment agreement dated December 17, 2004, the Pescios agreed that their right to receive cash payments will cease if the Grandview option agreement is terminated and will remain suspended until the property is re-optioned.
Prior to commencement of any surface disturbance, permits must be obtained from the BLM which permits exploration activities and a reclamation bond must also be posted.
Newmont Exploration Ltd. (“Newmont Exploration”) conducted regional exploration programs in search of additional gold deposits along the Carlin trend. In 1980 a stream-sediment sampling program identified anomalous gold and arsenic associated with an altered rhyolite body at what is now the Pony Creek Property. Newmont located 100 claims in 1980 to cover the prospect and located 80 more claims in 1982 to cover additional ground. Newmont began drilling in 1981 and conducted drill programs through 1985. Newmont conducted additional drilling campaigns in 1987 and 1989 with limited success. An option was acquired by Westmont Mining, Inc. in 1990, and in April of 1993 Quest International Management Services, Inc. (formerly Ramrod Gold, Inc.) acquired Westmont. Quest then joint ventured the property with Uranerz U.S.A., Inc. in 1994. Uranerz drilled a total of 15 holes in 1994-1995 before terminating the JV in 1995. In 1997 Quest purchased Newmont’s remaining interest in the property and signed a JV agreement with Barrick. Four holes were drilled by Barrick before they terminated the agreement in 1998. In 1999, Quest International Resources was acquired by Standard Mining Co. and it abandoned the Pony Creek property. Mr. Pescio acquired Pony Creek by staking claims in the fall of 1999. Homestake optioned the property shortly afterward. A year later, after drilling 5 reverse circulation drill holes, Homestake terminated their agreement with Mr. Pescio. Nevada Contact Inc. optioned the property from the Pescios in 2001 and drilled 8 holes before terminating the agreement in early 2003. In July 2003, Mill City optioned the property from the Pescios.
As part of the Arrangement, Allied Nevada will acquire the Pescios’ interest in the Pony Creek Property from the Pescios. The Pescios are the holders of a royalty on the claims, and hold contractual rights that may in certain circumstances require the record owner to transfer ownership of the claims to the Pescios.
Geology
Most of the property is comprised of dry, sagebrush-and grass-covered hills with a few juniper and pinyon pines. The climate is favorable for year-round mining and exploration may be done from May through November. Topographic coverage consists of the Bailey Mtn. And Robinson Mtn., Nevada 7.5’ quadrangles.
Power for a modern mill can be brought in from the vicinity of Elko, but ranch power is available only a few miles away. Water is not available on the surface, but was encountered in most of the reverse circulation drill holes. Water may also be present in sufficient quantities in the nearby valleys to the east and west. The claims carry with them the surface rights for mining. Although the area is hilly, sufficient flat areas are present in the property area for potential processing plant sites, tailings storage areas, waste disposal areas and leach pads.
The Pony Creek property lies along the axis of a regional Mesozoic anticline that parallels the crest of the Pinyon Range. The project area is within a zone of convergence of two major structural trends which are the boundaries of a north-south series of grabens and half grabens collectively referred to as the Pinyon Graben. A series of Tertiary felsic intrusives have been emplaced at various points along this structural zone.
The lithologies of the region include the allochthonous, eugeoclinal, siliceous western assemblage, the autochthonous, miogeoclinal, eastern carbonate assemblage and the mixed overlap assemblage. The Late Devonian Early Mississippian Roberts Mountain Thrust and the post Pinyon Anticline, Mesozoic thrust faults have moved the western assemblage and a significant portion of the overlap series over the eastern facies. Other important stratigraphic units of the region are Mississippian through Pennsylvanian clastics of the overlap assemblage which overlie both autochthonous and allochthonous units of the Roberts Mountains Thrust. Younger Late Pennsylvanian to Early Permian clastics disconformably overlie the overlap assemblage.
In the Pinyon Range, high-angle northeast and northwest trending faults and north trending faults, all with oblique displacement, and a younger set of east trending normal faults, are important elements in the structural framework of the
region. A Tertiary-age wrench faulting event, characterized by strike-slip faulting and intrusion of felsic rocks into graben faults, probably contributed to the emplacement of gold deposits into the Pinyon Graben.
Gold mineralization in the Bowl area is related to felsite breccias. The porphyritic phase consists of a series of rocks from feldspar porphyry to quartz porphyry and ranges in color from white to medium gray. The fragmental unit contains up to 5% of 1 to 2 mm diameter rounded and embayed quartz phenocrysts and feldspar phenocrysts in a white to light gray, fine-grained, ash-rich, clastic matrix. The dark colored felsite is very similar to the feldspar porphyry except that the aphanitic felsite is often nearly black. Porphyritic felsite appears to be interbedded with the fragmental felsite in gently dipping tabular masses up to 100 thick. In the Pot Holes area a lens of fragmental felsite approximately 60 feet thick intersects the low-angle fault that is at the base of the Robinson Thrust plate. The felsite breccias of the Bowl area may be fault breccia to explosion breccias. The breccia fragments are of variable lithology, reportedly including sediment fragments. The matrix, which is generally altered, consists of fragmental felsite and is termed a “sandy” rhyolite. The breccias are mineralized in the Bowl area and possibly are important hosts in other parts of the property.
Alteration within the rhyolite intrusive includes classic quartz-sericite-pyrite (Qsp) associated with north and northeast trending shears. The shear zones are fragmental and brecciated and contain very fine-grained quartz, sericite and pyrite/goethite, both as disseminations and on fractures. Away from the shear zones the rhyolite gradually becomes fresher, grading outward from relict feldspar ghosts into porphyritic rhyolite. In the center of the intrusive along the east flank of Rhyolite Hill, as well as in some other areas, the intrusive has a granular texture and feldspars have been altered, leaving open clay-filled vugs. The sanded rhyolite consists of medium-grained rounded clasts of glassy rhyolite breccia occurring near the margins and at the base of the intrusive, and locally as narrow stockwork zones in the intrusive. The distribution and texture of the sanded rhyolite suggest that the unit formed in vitric chill margins and apparently was partially fluidized by subsequent hydrothermal activity. Sediments along the margins of the intrusive and immediately beneath the rhyolite have been silicified, decalcified and sulfidized and, in and around the mineralized cells, have been extensively oxidized (hypogene). Sediments also occur as xenoliths throughout the rhyolite and can be observed in outcrop and in subsurface. The margins of the xenoliths are usually partially absorbed and most contacts are gradational.
A total of 175 drill holes have been completed on the Pony Creek property from 1981 through 2004. Total drill footage is 95,511 feet for an average of 546 feet per hole. Two of the holes were core holes and the rest were rotary reverse circulation drill holes. A total of 66 holes were angle holes, the other 109 holes were drilled at 90º.
Based on a third-party technical report completed on August 31, 2006, by Richard H. Russell, a consultant from Sandy, Utah, the Pony Creek Property contains, at a cutoff grade of 20 feet at 0.015 ounces of gold per ton, gold mineralized material of 1,140,000 tons grading 0.057 ounces of gold per ton. The Pony Creek Property is of sufficient merit to justify additional drilling for sediment-hosted gold targets. A two phase exploration program totaling 20,000 feet of reverse circulation drilling is recommended and would cost an estimated total of $800,000. Phase 1 would involve detailed mapping to precisely site the drill holes, then 10,000 of rotary reverse circulation drilling would be completed at a total cost of $400,000. Depending on the success of the first phase, the second phase is recommended to follow-up on mineralization discovered during the first phase and to involve 10,000 feet of rotary reverse circulation drilling at a total cost of $400,000.
Switch and Six Mile Properties
The Switch and Six Mile properties are located between the Cortez-Battle Mt.-Eureka Trend and the Carlin Trend in T36 and 37N, R46E in northern Elko County, approximately 55 miles northwest of the town of Elko and approximately 10 to 14 miles south of the mines at Midas. The Six Mile claim group consists of 14 claims comprising approximately 280 acres located in Sections 3 and 4, T36N, R46E. Access to the claim groups is south from Midas, which can be accessed via State Highway 789.
The Six Mile Property and the Switch Property was sold by the owners, the Pescios to Mill City who optioned them to Minterra along with seven other properties, comprising approximately 12,200 acres of Federal land, in a letter agreement dated September 6, 2004. Minterra has the right to earn a 60% interest in the nine properties by incurring an aggregate of $5,000,000 of exploration and development expenditures on the properties over five years, completing a minimum of 100,000 feet of drilling, and making certain cash reimbursements and issuing shares of common stock to Mill City. Minterra may elect to earn a further 10% interest in any property by completing a bankable feasibility study on the property. The Pescios will continue to receive advance royalty cash payments credited against a 3% NSR, of which 1% can be purchased prior to the start of production for $1,000,000. In 2005, the Pescios agreed that their right to receive cash payments will cease if the Minterra option agreement is terminated and will remain suspended until the property is re-optioned.
As part of the Arrangement, Allied Nevada will acquire the Pescios’ interest in the Six Mile Property and the Switch Property from the Pescios. The Pescios are the holders of a royalty on the claims, and hold contractual rights that may in certain circumstances require the record owner to transfer ownership of the claims to the Pescios.
Prior to commencement of any surface disturbance, permits must be obtained from the BLM and a reclamation bond must be posted.
There is no information concerning any prior exploration work available for the Switch or Six Mile properties. Minterra, Mill City or Mr. Pescio have not drilled any holes nor defined any gold mineralized material on either of the properties. As there is no historic or current gold mineralized material for the Switch or Six Mile properties, there is no evidence of any mineral production from either of the properties. The author of the technical report is not aware of any systematic exploration that has been done on the Six Mile property. No gold mineralization has been detected on the surface of the claim groups. The property is covered in part by recent gravels and the bedrock portions of the property have not been sampled. No drilling has been done on the claim groups. No sample information is available for the property. Minterra has not conducted any metallurgical or related tests on any material from either the property. There are no estimates of gold mineralized material for the property. The Switch and Six Mile properties are early-stage exploration projects.
Geology
Elevations on the properties range from around 5,100 feet to over 6,100 feet. The topography generally consists of low to high rolling hills. The properties are generally covered by sagebrush and grass with a very few juniper bushes. The temperatures are cool to cold during the winter, with occasional moderate snowfalls, and are warm during the summer with cool nights. The area is fairly dry, with infrequent rains during the summer. The climate is favorable for year-round mining and exploration may be done from May through November.
Power can be brought in from various locations in the region. Water is generally not available on the surface, but can be obtained from BLM wells and other sources near the property. The claims carry with them the surface rights for mining. There are sufficient flat areas for potential processing plant sites, tailings storage areas, waste disposal areas and leach pads.
Both the Switch and Six Mile claim groups are covered by post-mineralization Tertiary volcanics that are an unknown thickness and obscure the prospective Paleozoic sequence. The gold target is Midas-Ivanhoe-type paleothermal hot springs structurally controlled high-grade gold mineralization, primarily in the volcanic sequence. Both properties exhibit silicification and argillization in the volcanics and volcanic sediments. The Switch claims show quartz veining and/or quartz-pyrite veining along structures.
Both claim groups are located along northeast/southwest trending major structures. Structures such as these act as feeders and are the focus of high-grade gold mineralization in the Midas and Ivanhoe districts.
The Six Mile claim group is covered by Quaternary and Tertiary gravels and, in part, by an apparently older unit of tuffaceous sedimentary rocks. Again, the thickness of this unit is unknown and can only be determined by drilling.
Surface geology at the Switch property is dominated by rhyolite that may be equivalent to the Craig rhyolite, a sequence that covers the mineralized Hollister sequence. The thickness of this unit is unknown on the Switch property, but could be extremely variable due to a highly irregular pre-Tertiary surface, as is the case in the Ivanhoe district, and/or to structural offset. Drilling will be required to test the depth to potentially mineralized horizons.
The target deposit type at both Switch and Six Mile is a Midas- and/or Ivanhoe-type of paleothermal high-grade gold deposit. The properties are within the NNR, a long north-northwest trending alignment of deep-seated faults, which acted as the conduit for Miocene volcanic rocks, and along which several gold-silver-mercury deposits occur. The mineral deposits were formed as part of the rifting event, during or slightly after emplacement of the volcanic rocks. The gold deposits formed beneath synvolcanic hot springs which produced large areas of silicification and surface sinter terraces. Some of the sinters have been prospected and mined for mercury, especially in the Ivanhoe district and at the Silver Cloud mercury mine. The gold deposits found beneath the paleothermal hot springs are typically banded quartz-calciteadularia veins along the feeder structures and sometimes occur as replacement deposits or as disseminations into the volcanic rocks.
It is recommended that additional available land in the vicinity of both the Switch and Six Mile properties be acquired to at least double the size of each claim block. It is also recommended that some sort of remote sensing geophysical method, such as CS-AMT, be used to better define structure on the properties and assist in the definition of drill targets for high-grade gold mineralization.
Toy Property
The Toy property comprising approximately 7,820 acres is located in east-central Lander County approximately 50 miles south of the town of Battle mountain, about 20 miles south of the Pipeline gold deposit and approximately 12 miles southwest of the Cortez Hills gold deposit. The town of Austin is about 40 miles south-southwest of the property. Access to
the property is via well-maintained gravel road that runs down Grass Valley from Cortez. Approximately 12.5 miles south of the Cortez Hills area a jeep trail runs into the interior of the property.
The Toy Property was optioned by Mill City to Minterra along with eight other properties, comprising approximately 12,200 acres of Federal land, in a letter agreement dated September 6, 2004. Minterra has the right to earn a 60% interest in the nine properties by incurring an aggregate of $5,000,000 of exploration and development expenditures on the properties over a period of five years, completing a minimum of 100,000 feet of drilling, and reimbursing Mill City approximately $203,000 for 2004-2005 claim holding fees and underlying advance royalty payments. Minterra will be responsible for future claim maintenance fees and underlying advance royalty payments. Minterra also issued Mill City 1,000,000 shares of its the capital stock. Minterra may elect to earn a further 10% interest in any property by completing a Bankable Feasibility Study on such property. Mill City can elect at any time after Minterra earns a 60% interest to convert to a 20% net profits interest.
The Toy Property is held by Mill City as per letter agreements signed in 2003 (revised in 2004) with the claim locators, the Pescios. The agreement for the Toy Property states that in exchange for a 100% interest in the property, Mill City has paid and issued common shares of Mill City to the Pescios. The Pescios will continue to receive advance royalty cash payments credited against a 3% NSR, of which 1% can be purchased prior to the start of production for $1,000,000.
In 2005, the Pescios agreed that their right to receive cash payments will cease if the Minterra option agreement is terminated and will remain suspended until the property is re-optioned.
As part of the Arrangement, Allied Nevada will acquire the Pescios’ interest in the Toy Property from the Pescios. The Pescios are the holders of a royalty on the claims, and hold contractual rights that may in certain circumstances require the record owner to transfer ownership of the claims to the Pescios.
Prior to commencement of any surface disturbance, permits must be obtained from the BLM and a reclamation bond must be posted.
There are no known samples or sample results from the property. Minterra has not conducted any metallurgical or related tests on any material from the property. There are no estimates of gold mineralized material for the property.
Geology
Elevations on and around the property range from around 5,400 feet to over 7,500 feet. The claim group currently consists of a total of 391 claims. The topography can be locally severe, but generally consists of low to high rolling hills. The property is generally covered by sagebrush and grass as well as juniper bushes and pinyon pines. The temperatures are cool to cold during the winter, with occasional moderate snowfalls, and are warm during the summer with cool nights. The area is fairly dry, with infrequent rains during the summer. The climate is favorable for year-round mining and exploration may be done from May through November.
Power can be brought in from various locations in the region. Water is generally not available on the surface, but can be obtained from BLM wells and other sources near the property. The claims carry with them the surface rights for mining. There are sufficient flat areas for potential processing plant sites, tailings storage areas, waste disposal areas and leach pads.
The Toy Property is located in the Cortez Gold Trend (Central Battle Mountain/Eureka Trend), which contains several large sediment-hosted gold deposits. The claim group of 391 unpatented lode mining claims is centered on a major north-south structural zone that consists of distinctive topographic lineaments as seen in the Landsat image of the Toy Property area. The Toiyabe gold deposit, located less than 2 miles to the north, is along this structural zone, as are two windows in the upper plate rocks which expose lower plate rocks mapped as Devonian Nevada Group and the Devils Gate and Wenban Limestones. Published mapping shows a portion of one of the windows exposing lower plate rocks in the northeastern part of the Toy claim block. Not shown on the published mapping are a series of altered Tertiary mafic to felsic dikes that cut the Ordovician Valmy on the east side of the structural zone. Also not shown is a marbleized dolomitic limestone, likely lower plate and possibly Silurian in age, that crops out in two areas near the northeast-center of the property. The primary target is west of the east margin of the north-south structural zone that is prominent on the Landsat image. The structural zone runs north-northwest through the Toy Property and extends to the north and projects into the pediment south of the Pipeline deposit. Mineralization at both the Pipeline and South Pipeline deposits is localized along north- to northwest-trending high-angle faults.
Alteration is present as silicification and argillization of Valmy Formation and argillization of the dikes. The extent of the alteration and its geochemical character are unknown at the present time. An unknown number of shallow drill holes tested unaltered upper plate rocks east of the structure, apparently without reaching the lower plate assemblage.
The target concept for the Toy Property is disseminated gold mineralization hosted by lower plate rocks, the same setting as the Cortez area gold deposits. Gold mineralization is largely controlled by north-trending (northwest to northeast) high-angle structures, along which submicroscopic gold was emplaced in carbonate host rocks of the lower plate assemblage. The host rock contains anomalous amounts of arsenic, antimony and mercury, and these trace elements are usually associated with the gold mineralization. A window exposing Devonian lower plate carbonate rocks was mapped in the northeastern part of the Toy claim block.
The Toy Property is a significant land package of 391 unpatented lode mining claims covering prospective rocks in a favorable structural zone. Since the early 1990’s, continued exploration in the Cortez Trend has led to several major gold discoveries. The Toy property is located within the Cortez Trend a short distance from several major gold deposits and, as a result, has high potential for the discovery of a significant gold deposit in lower plate rocks.
The Toy Property is an excellent gold prospect that requires drill target definition and testing. Sampling and mapping are recommended to establish patterns of trace element mineralization (As, Sb and Hg) that would possibly indicate the location and extent of primary gold mineralization, and better determine the structural fabric of the property. Geophysics, specifically 3D-IP, would be used in the alluvial covered area of the property define structural zones at depth. After target definition, an initial drilling program of 4,500 feet of reverse circulation drilling in six to eight holes would commence with the primary objective of testing lower plate rocks along the prominent north-south structures the transect property.
Tusk Property
The Tusk Property comprising approximately 1,080 acres is located in the Cortez-Battle Mt.-Eureka Trend in T31 and 32N, R44E, on the eastern side of the Battle Mountain Range and approximately five miles southwest of Battle Mountain. The property consists of 54 unpatented lode claims and is within three miles of the copper/gold mines at Copper Basin on the east side of the Battle Mountain mining district. The property can be accessed from Battle Mountain by travelling a short distance south on State Highway 305, then east on gravel roads and jeep trails.
The Tusk Property was sold by the owners, the Pescios to Mill City who optioned it to Minterra along with eight other properties, comprising approximately 12,200 acres of Federal land, in a letter agreement dated September 6, 2004. Minterra has the right to earn a 60% interest in the nine properties by incurring an aggregate of $5,000,000 of exploration and development expenditures on the properties over five years, completing a minimum of 100,000 feet of drilling, and making certain cash reimbursements and issuing shares of common stock to Mill City. Minterra may elect to earn a further 10% interest in any property by completing a bankable feasibility study on the property. The Pescios will continue to receive advance royalty cash payments credited against a 3% NSR, of which 1% can be purchased prior to the start of production for $1,000,000. In 2005 the Pescios agreed that their right to receive cash payments will cease if the Minterra option agreement is terminated and will remain suspended until the property is re-optioned.
As part of the Arrangement, Allied Nevada will acquire the Pescios’ interest in the Tusk Property from the Pescios. The Pescios are the holders of a royalty on the claims, and hold contractual rights that may in certain circumstances require the record owner to transfer ownership of the claims to the Pescios.
Prior to commencement of any surface disturbance, permits must be obtained from the BLM and a reclamation bond must be posted.
The number and location of any prior claims on this property area are unknown. There is no information concerning any prior exploration work available for the Tusk Property. Minterra, Mill City or the Pescios have not drilled any holes nor defined any gold mineralized material on the property. An old drill hole, as evidenced by a pile of drill cuttings, is located in the northeast corner of the northern Tusk claim block. No information is available for that hole. Although at least one hole was drilled on the current claim block, the author of the technical report is not aware of any systematic exploration that has been done on the property. No metal mineralization has been detected on the surface of the property. The property is covered by pediment and the targets must be tested by drilling. There is no drilling information available for the property. No sample information is available from the property. There is no gold mineralized material currently defined at the Tusk Property.
Geology
Elevations on the property range from around 4,600 feet to over 5,000 feet. The topography generally consists of low rolling hills and the property is partially covered by sagebrush and grass. The temperatures are cool to cold during the winter, with occasional moderate snowfalls, and are warm during the summer with cool nights. The area is fairly dry, with infrequent rains during the summer. The climate is favorable for year-round mining and exploration may be done from May through November.
Power can be brought in from various locations in the region. Water is generally not available on the surface, but can be obtained from BLM wells and other sources near the property. The claims carry with them the surface rights for mining. There are sufficient flat areas for potential processing plant sites, tailings storage areas, waste disposal areas and leach pads.
The Tusk Property, located immediately southeast of the Copper Basin area, is covered by Quaternary gravels and the Caetano Tuff. Based on the proximity of the property to exposures of the Antler Sequence 4,000 feet west of the property, it is reasonable to assume the property is underlain by the Antler Sequence. This supposition is further supported by the fact that altered Havallah Sequence rocks outcrop on and adjacent to the Tusk Property in low hills near the range front. Other than the presence of the altered Havallah Sequence cherts and argillites, the geology of the Tusk Property is unknown at this time. No drill hole data are available, as drilling on the property is apparently restricted to one hole in the northeast corner of the northern claim block.
The Tusk Property is at the southeast projection of a mineralized structural zone. The Antler Sequence is an excellent ore host, especially where structurally prepared and near and/or in contact with Tertiary intrusives. The Tusk Property is in the correct structural regime in the Battle Mountain district, being at a structural intersection on the east limb of a major anticline, and appears to be within a reasonable distance of a buried intrusive, as indicated by geophysical evidence.
The exploration model for the Tusk Property is the Marigold subdistrict, located approximately 25 miles northwest of Tusk on the northwest side of the Battle Mountain district. Gold mineralization in the Marigold area occurs in coarse- to fine-grained clastic rocks of the Antler Sequence, and in quartzite and argillite of the Ordovician Valmy Formation. Exploration drilling in the Marigold area discovered several buried ore zones covered by up to 300 feet of alluvium.
Rock Creek Property
The Rock Creek Property consists of 62 unpatented lode mining claims, totalling approximately 1,240 acres, located between the Cortez-Battle Mt.-Eureka Trend and the Carlin Trend 28 miles west northwest of Carlin, on the east flank of the Sheep Creek Range.
The Rock Creek unpatented mining claims were located by the Pescios. The Pescios and Duncan Park Holdings Nevada Ltd., a Nevada corporation (“Duncan Park”), entered into a mining lease dated February 7, 2003, in accordance with which the Pescios leased the Rock Creek Property and South Silver Cloud Property unpatented mining claims to Duncan Park for a primary term of 20 years, subject to extensions after the primary term upon payment of an AMR in the amount of $150,000 on or before each anniversary date of the mining lease. Under the mining lease, Duncan Park paid to the Pescios an AMR in the amount of $20,000 and issued 50,000 shares of the common stock of Duncan Park. The mining lease provides for payment of AMR payments beginning with the sum of $30,000 on the first anniversary of the effective date of the mining lease and escalating to the sum of $150,000 on the sixth and subsequent anniversaries of the effective date of the mining lease. The mining lease obligates Duncan Park to pay the Pescios a production royalty equal to 3% NSR from the production of minerals from the Rock Creek Property and the South Silver Creek Property. The royalty percentage rate is adjustable based upon the price of gold and the average grade of ore mined from the properties. The royalty percentage rate increases by 0.1% NSR for each increase of $10 in the price per ounce of gold from the base of $320 to a maximum of $420 per ounce. The royalty percentage rate is also subject to adjustment by 0.1% of the NSR for each 0.05 ounce of gold per ton in the average grade above 0.5 ounces of gold per ton. Duncan Park has the option and right to purchase one-third of the royalty representing 1% NSR for the sum of $1,000,000. The royalty purchase option expires on commencement of production of minerals from the properties.
The mining lease obligates Duncan Park to complete 4,000 feet of exploratory drilling on the Rock Creek Property and the South Silver Creek Property within three years after the effective date of the mining lease and 5,000 feet of exploratory drilling during each subsequent lease year.
As part of the Arrangement, Allied Nevada will acquire the Pescios’ interest in the Rock Creek Property from the Pescios. The Pescios are the holders of a royalty on the claims, and are the beneficial or record owners of certain of the claims.
Geology
The Rock Creek Property is situated along the NNR, a Miocene-age structural zone which hosts Newmont Mining Corporation’s Midas gold-silver mine. The property is partly covered by Quaternary gravels, but altered and veined volcanic rocks are exposed at Rock Creek. The property is broken by N- to NNW-trending, high-angle normal faults, associated with the NNR. Alteration and mineralization are controlled by these structures. The Rock Creek prospect has moderate-grade gold veining exposed at the surface. In the Rock Creek target area, Pliocene basalt flows are underlain by a 1,200+ foot thick sequence of Miocene andesites, dacites and rhyolites.
The exploration target on the property is Midas-Style vein type gold-silver deposits. Other companies who worked in this area drilled at least 122 mostly shallow holes on the property. No holes have been drilled to intersect the vein systems at depths of ±1,000 feet.
Access is by Interstate Highway 80 to Dunphy, and then north and west on maintained dirt roads for 35 miles to the property. The property is in hilly, sagebrush-covered desert and the climate is favorable for year-round mining. A trained mining-industrial workforce is available at Carlin and Elko. Elevations in the area are between 4,800 feet at the southern mouth of Rock Creek Canyon to 5,767 feet on a hilltop along the northern projection of the Rock Creek vein system.
Barrick, Echo Bay and Freeport drill-tested at least two additional areas of alteration/veining, located 800 and 1,900 feet west of the main Rock Creek vein system. The Barrick hole was 1,200 feet deep, entirely in volcanic rocks, but never tested the main Rock Creek vein system, as it was drilled west of the main structure.
Freeport Exploration Company explored the property and drilled at least 12 holes at Rock Creek. Kennecott conduced mapping, sampling, and drilled 15 holes at Rock Creek in 1987. Due to the wide spacing of drilling at the time, no firm estimate of gold-silver grades was given. Western States Minerals Corporation (“WSM”) conducted exploration on the Rock Creek Property in the 1980’s and 1990’s. Echo Bay Exploration conducted exploration at Rock Creek in 1989 and 1990 (Echo Bay, 1990), drilling a total of 54 holes. Sante Fe Pacific Mining Corporation, in a joint venture with Cambior USA, drilled 3 holes NW of the main Rock Creek vein system. No material exploration work has been done on the Rock Creek Property after WSM in 1992, and prior to its acquisition by DPHC.
A least 102 holes have been drilled into the Rock Creek target area. The types of drilling and sampling used are not known. These holes were drilled by large, professional mining companies who ostensibly used industry-standard practices in the taking and preparation of samples. These samples, similarly, were likely assayed in large, professionally accredited assay laboratories, according to industry standards. Verifiable assay certificates or documentation of sampling, bagging, security, and transportation practices used in the Rock Creek programs by the lessee companies are not available.
The mapping, sampling, and drilling at the Rock Creek target has shown that a significant gold-silver vein system is exposed over a N-S length of 5,900 feet, in which drilling by several companies has defined a substantial body of low-grade gold-silver mineralization in the upper 200 feet of the system. The southern end of the Rock Creek system is cut off by a major Range-front fault. The vein systems may continue northward under cover, as suggested by the drilling by Western States Minerals Corporation. No determination of the depth of the vein systems has been made, as no holes have yet been drilled to vertical depths of 1,000+ feet below the sinters at Rock Creek. Several factors suggest that Rock Creek is a Silver Cloud - Midas-style gold-silver vein system, including: the type of host rocks, location within the NNR province, the high silver-to-gold ratios found in mineralized drill intercepts, and the high selenium and mercury values present.
No mine production has been reported from the Rock Creek Property and no metallurgy has been completed on the Rock Creek Property.
DPHC must get permits from the BLM office in Elko prior to conducting “significant” surface disturbance, such as trenching, drilling, or construction of new roads. No EIS is needed to conduct such work in this district.
Santa Renia Gold-Silver Property
The Santa Renia Gold-Silver Property consists of 27 unpatented lode mining claims, totalling approximately 487 acres, located 34 miles northwest of Carlin on the northwest margin of the Carlin Trend. Access is by the paved Newmont Road to the Carlin Mine, continuing through Barrick’s Goldstrike property, and then by occasionally maintained dirt roads to the property.
A Mining Lease Agreement, signed on February 13, 2003, between DPHC and the Pescios stipulated an AMR payment of $20,000 and 50,000 shares of DPHC common stock upon signing of the lease agreement. Future AMR payments were to be made as follows: $30,000 on the first anniversary of the lease; $40,000 on the second anniversary; $55,000 and 50,000 DPHC shares on the third anniversary; $75,000 on the fourth anniversary; $100,000 on the fifth anniversary; and $150,000 on the sixth and subsequent anniversaries thereafter. The aforesaid AMR payments are to be deducted from a 3% NSR retained by the Pescios on the Santa Renia Gold-Silver Property. DPHC may purchase 1% of the 3% NSR, up to the time of commencement of production from the property, for $1,000,000.
As part of the Arrangement, Allied Nevada will acquire the Pescios’ interest in the Santa Renia Gold-Silver Property from the Pescios. The Pescios are the holders of a royalty on the claims, and are the beneficial or record owners of certain of the claims.
Prior to commencement of any “significant” surface disturbance, permits must be obtained from the BLM.
Geology
The elevations range between 5,440 feet on the eastern valley floor, to 5,960 feet on the mountain in the southeastern corner of the property. The property is in high, sagebrush covered desert, and the climate favorable for year-round mining. The hilly nature of the topography and the small size of the property claim block would restrict the ability of a mine operator to place minesite facilities wherever desired. Most supplies are available at Elko, which has all the needed equipment, supplies and services for mining companies to carry out full sequence exploration and mining development on the property.
Upper Plate Vinini Fm. basement rocks are exposed at the surface, immediately north and east of the property. This section of Vinini Fm. appears to be separated from Devonian Slaven Chert on the east by a major, N15W-trending fault which runs along Antelope Creek, just east of the property. A cap of Miocene-age rhyolitic flows and “shallow intrusive” rocks forms a hill to the south of the western part of the property and also covers the southeastern part of the property.
The property lies in between the rhyolite hill and the Vinini outcrops, along the trend of an ENE-trending high-angle fault graben. These ENE-trending faults may have post-dated the NW-trending Carlin Trend fault/mineralizing systems, and be part of the Midas-age Hollister system, which has numerous E-W to ENE-trending gold-silver bearing vein structures. Mineralized ENE-trending fault structures also control gold-silver mineralization on the Rodeo Creek property, which lies just southeast of the property, across Antelope Creek. The Antelope Creek Fault was mapped along the trace of Antelope Creek, and this could represent the west boundary of the Bootstrap Limestone rift block, as discussed above. The structural intersection of the ENE-trending graben with the probable west-dipping Antelope Creek Fault lies immediately east of the Santa Renia Gold-Silver Property boundary, and has never been tested for gold-silver mineralization by drilling.
Post-mineral, tuffaceous sediments of the Carlin Formation blanket the area surrounding the rhyolite cap hill, on all sides of the property.
Asarco staked the Jammer Chair 1-19 lode claims, totalling 357 acres on September 12, 1996, but later dropped them without doing any work on them. Mr. Pescio re-staked these same claims in December, 1998, as the Santa Renia Gold-Silver Property, and added 8 new lode claims for a total of 487 acres. Aur Resources USA Inc. (“Aur”) leased the claims from Mr. Pescio, and is the only company to have conducted any work on the property. They contracted with Pierson, deRidder, Johnson, Inc. to prepare aeromagnetic maps of the property area.
There has been no drilling done on the Santa Renia Gold-Silver Property. No work has been done on the property after Aur and prior to its acquisition by DPHC.
No rock or soil geochemical sampling was reported on the property. No samples were collected from the property because the target is buried and not likely to show any evidence on the surface.
Aur compiled aeromagnetic and gravity maps of the northern Carlin Trend. There are two aeromagnetic highs, one in the northern part of the Carlin Trend, at the Hollister-Hatter mines, and the other aeromag high south of the Newmont Gold’s Carlin and Pete Mines. In between these two spot highs, one smaller regional aeromag high is shown near a second Newmont Gold mine complex. These aeromag highs have been interpreted to represent large, subsurface igneous intrusive bodies. The Santa Renia Gold-Silver Property, lies on the east flank of the Hollister-Hatter aeromagnetic high.
Aur contracted PRJ to interpret PRJ’s proprietary North-Central Nevada aeromagnetic database for the property area. The PRJ survey was flown on 1/8 by 1/2 mile grid spacings, at a ground clearance of 500 feet. These PRJ data show that a strong, linear, NW-trending aeromagnetic high trends along the northeast corner of the property, cutting the northeast edge of the large Hollister-Hatter aeromagnetic high, which presumably is due to the presence of a large, magnetic granitic pluton of Jurassic age. The aeromag high follows, roughly, the trace of a NW-trending fault near the Rossi Barite mine. This may represent a major basement fault which was re-activated during the Carlin Trend tectonic-mineralizing event, about 39 million years ago.
Gravity data from gravity surveys show gravity highs under the Goldstrike/Carlin mine complexes. It also shows an ENE-trending, slight gravity high under the Hollister - Hatter area, despite the existence of a volcanic-filled basin there in the Midas Trough. The data show the property area to lay in a NE-trending gravity low, which could represent a basinal area with no granitic pluton, an area with no magnetically anomalous basement rocks, or an area with basement present at a greater depth than the areas to the northwest and southeast. Aur management dropped the property before any further work could be done on the property.
No drilling or metallurgy has been completed on the property. No estimates of reserves or gold mineralized material have been made on the property.
The principal target types on the Santa Renia Gold-Silver Property are:
(1) Carlin-Style gold-silver replacement orebodies in favorable host rocks, which most commonly include limestone and dolomitic carbonate sedimentary strata, which on the property are the Devonian Popovich Formation and the Rodeo Creek unit. These replacement orebodies may, however, be found in almost any type of rock, such as the Goldstrike monzonite-diorite, if the mineralizing system is sufficiently strong. Silver is variable in these gold-dominant systems with some mines having higher silver values. Useful trace metal pathfinders associated with Carlin-Style mineralization are arsenic, antimony, mercury and thallium.
(2) Midas-Style epithermal vein-type, low-sulfidation, gold-silver mineralization found in and alongside high-angle faults which were opened up or re-activated during tectonic activity of mid-Miocene age. Older Eocene-age fault systems probably have been re-activated along the Carlin Trend and have served as hosts for Miocene vein systems. These vein systems are directly related to bimodal mafic-felsic volcanism, but the volcanic rocks may not always be exposed, such as perhaps occurs at Rodeo Creek. Midas-Style vein systems typically contain higher silver contents, in addition to gold, and other useful trace metal pathfinders may include selenium, copper, lead, mercury, arsenic, and perhaps tellurium.
The triple structural intersection on the property where the ENE-trending graben meets the Antelope Creek Fault and the NW-trending fault/aeromagnetic high is the first-priority target for both Carlin-Style and Midas-Style gold-silver mineralization. This target area is ready for drilling, and no further preparatory exploration work need be conducted on it prior to drilling. No new road construction would be required to drill at this site.
South Silver Cloud Property
The South Silver Cloud property consists of 122 unpatented lode mining claims, totalling approximately 2,440 acres, located between the Cortez-Battle Mt.-Eureka Trend and the Carlin Trend 28 miles west northwest of Carlin, on the south flank of the Sheep Creek Range. Duncan Park entered into a mining lease with respect to the unpatented mining claims on the Rock Creek Property and the South Silver Creek Property. For a description of the principal terms of the mining lease, see “- Rock Creek Property”.
As part of the Arrangement, the Pescios’ interest in the property will be acquired by Allied Nevada from the Pescios. The Pescios are the holders of a royalty on the claims, and are the beneficial or record owners of certain of the claims.
Geology
The South Silver Cloud Property is situated along the NNR, a Miocene-age structural zone, which hosts several major gold mines. The property is partly covered by Quaternary gravels and is broken by N- to NNW-trending, high-angle normal faults, associated with the NNR. Alteration and mineralization are controlled by these structures.
The South Silver Cloud prospect is located north, along strike, from Rock Creek, and south of Silver Cloud. South Silver Cloud has several silica sinters exposed at the surface, and rocks associated with the sinters show locally anomalous values of pathfinder elements usually associated with Midas-Style gold-silver deposits. To the north in the South Silver Cloud target area, mercury-enriched hot spring opalite, sinter, and “blow-out breccia” overlies the tuffites and domes of latitic to rhyolitic volcanic rock. Most opalite sinters in the target areas show very low gold values at the surface, with variably high mercury contents. The exploration target on the South Silver Cloud Property is Midas-Style vein type gold-silver deposits.
Other companies who worked in this area drilled at least 122 mostly shallow holes on the South Silver Cloud Property. No holes have been drilled to intersect the vein systems at depths of below 1,000 feet.
An unmaintained dirt road continues northward for 13 miles through the property to the Antelope Creek Road at the north end of the South Silver Cloud Property. The property also may be accessed from Battle Mountain, driving north on paved Highway 35 for 6 miles to the graded dirt Izzenhood and Rock Creek Ranch Roads for 14 miles, then turning east on the graded dirt Antelope Creek Road to the South Silver Cloud dirt road turnoff and the property. The flats at South Silver Cloud, where the sinter outcrops are exposed are at an elevation of about 5,000 to 5,200 feet. The mercury sinter mine workings at the Silver Cloud Mine are exposed at an elevation of about 5,400 feet.
The property is in hilly, sagebrush-covered desert, and the climate is favorable for year-round mining. Exploration and mining may be conducted year-round, due to the established roads close to Battle Mountain, Dunphy, and Midas. Most supplies are available at Carlin and Elko, which have all the needed equipment, supplies and services for mining companies to carry out full sequence exploration and mining development projects. The flat or mesa-like nature of much of the topography would give a mine operator wide latitude in the siting/placement of minesite, tailings, or heap leach facilities.
WSM conducted exploration on the Property in the 1980’s and 1990’s. Santa Fe Pacific Mining Corporation conducted exploration on the surface silica sinters in the South Silver Cloud Target area, beginning in 1986. They drilled eight rotary
drill holes on the property in 1988. They subsequently formed a joint venture with Cambior USA and drilled 10 reverse-circulation holes into mercury-enriched opalite sinter bodies at South Silver Cloud in 1990-1991. Two other drill holes were found on the property ACP-1,(2), which were drilled prior to Santa Fe’s work on the property. No material exploration work has been done on the property after WSM in 1992, and prior to its acquisition by DPHC.
At least 20 holes have been drilled into the South Silver Cloud Target area. The types of drilling and sampling used are not exactly known, but Cambior drilled the last 6 holes (SC-16 to -21) using reverse-circulation techniques. The holes were drilled by large, professional mining companies who ostensibly used industry-standard practices in the taking and preparation of samples. These collected drill hole samples, similarly, likely were assayed in large, professionally accredited assay laboratories, according to industry standards.
The drilling did not define any areas of economic gold-silver mineralization in the South Silver Cloud Target area. It did detect the presence of local structures and areas of pyritization. Local anomalous values of mercury and arsenic also were found.
The mapping, sampling, and drilling at the South Silver Cloud target on the property suggests that Gustin’s (1991) interpretation that it is part of a volcanic hot spring field is correct. Past exploration found areas with anomalous pathfinder geochemistry in sinters and associated Miocene volcanic rocks, but no significant gold or silver values. Certain drill holes did encounter significantly thick intervals of gold-poor pyrite mineralization and argillic alteration. Previous lessees recognized no structural mineral feeder systems of significance, and the possible northward projection of the Rock Creek gold-silver vein systems into the South Silver Cloud target area was not investigated sufficiently. The obvious near-surface hot-spring type gold targets appear to have been studied and drilled properly, but the possible presence of deeper vein-type gold-silver targets has not been investigated.
No metallurgy has been completed on the property.
DPHC must get permits from the BLM office in Elko prior to conducting “significant” surface disturbance, such as trenching, drilling, or construction of new roads. No EIS is needed to conduct such work in this district.
Tonka Gold-Silver Property
The Tonka Gold-Silver Property consists of 12 unpatented lode mining claims covering approximately 240 acres, located five miles south of Carlin on the north end of the Piñon Range. Tonka is reached by driving east on the Rain Mine Road for 0.4 mile to the unmaintained dirt Rye Patch Spring road, and continuing eastward on it for four miles to the property. The Tonka area is located in the Carlin Trend seven miles northwest of Rain, along the trend of the principal Rain fault system.
A Letter Agreement dated July 28, 2005, between Beaucache Gold Corp. (“Beaucache”) and the Pescios stipulated an AMR payment of $20,000 and 140,000 shares of Beaucache common stock upon signing of the lease agreement. Future AMR payments were to be made as follows: $35,000 on the first anniversary of the lease; $50,000 on the second anniversary; $80,000 on the third anniversary; $100,000 on the fourth anniversary; $150,000 on the fifth anniversary; and $200,000 on the sixth and subsequent anniversaries thereafter. The aforesaid AMR payments are to be deducted from a 4% NSR retained by the Pescios on the Tonka Gold-Silver Property. Beaucache may purchase 2% of the 4% NSR for $4 million prior to completion of a bankable feasibility study.
Beaucache was required to complete 5,000 feet of drilling on the property within the first three years after signing of the Letter Agreement, and 7,500 feet of drilling per year thereafter. Excessive footage drilled on the property in any year can be carried forward to the subsequent years. Beaucache may pay the Pescios $10 in lieu of each foot not drilled.
As part of the Arrangement, Allied Nevada will acquire the Pescios’ interest in the Tonka Gold-Silver Property from the Pescios. The Pescios are the holders of a royalty on the claims, and are the beneficial or record owners of certain of the claims.
Geology
Elevations range between 5,000 to 5,800 feet. The claims are in hilly, sagebrush-covered desert and the climate is favorable for year-round mining. Sufficient private and BLM land is available in the Tonka area to site any type of mining facility. Most supplies are available at Carlin and Elko, which have all the needed equipment, supplies and services for mining companies to carry out full sequence exploration and mining development on the property. The Woodruff- Tonka area has not had reported water shortages, but no aquifer testing or environmental baseline studies have been conducted.
A map of the location and geology of the Tonka target area shows a NE-trending band of Webb Formation, bounded on the west by Western Assemblage Vinini Fm., and cut by a series of NNW- to WNW-trending high-angle faults. Overlying the Webb to the east are blocks of Chainman Formation sandstones and siltstones and Diamond Peak Fm. conglomerates. An altered quartz latite dike was found in the southeastern corner of Section 32, which exhibited anomalous gold and pathfinder element geochem values. Webb Formation siltstones show silicification and baritization, pathfinders to ore at Rain, in several places in the Tonka claims area. Baritized outcrops are found, along the north-central edge of Section 32. Altered, silicified Webb outcrops are also found in the SW corner of Section 32.
The first reported exploration operator at Tonka was Pez Gold, who staked the “Gutsy” claims over the target area and drilled one rotary hole in 1988 in Section 32, northwest of an altered quartz latite dike. An unknown operator drilled four holes in Sections 31 and 32, for which no data are available. Corona Gold explored the property “sometime between 1989 and 1993” and drilled 2 holes in the NW 1/4 of Section 32. Cyprus Amax leased the property, sampled it, and drilled three holes in 1995. White Knight Gold (U.S.) Inc. acquired the Tonka property in 1996, and drilled five holes at the end of their lease term in 1998, before dropping the property. Kinross Gold U.S.A. then took 100 more rock chip geochemical samples later in 1998. Nevada Pacific Gold examined the property in 1998-1999, and prepared a gravity data contour overlay on an aerial photograph of the area, which is in possession of Mr. Pescio. No work has been done on the property after Kinross and prior to its acquisition by DPHC.
The various interested companies took a total of at least 270 rock chip samples and 415 soil geochemical samples from the Tonka property. Kinross took 100 additional rock chip samples in the area in 1998. The sampling of the surface outcrops of the Webb Formation rocks yielded generally low gold assay values, as well as low values of pathfinder trace elements.
The property vendor obtained a map of Bouguer Gravity contours, superimposed on an aerial photograph of the Tonka target area, from Nevada Pacific Gold. The original source of these gravity data is not known, nor the methodology of taking the data or compiling it. These gravity contour data indicate a NNW-trending gravity “high” ridge in the NE corner of Section 32, T. 33N. R. 53 E., bordering the NE-trending zone of outcropping Webb Formation in the west-half of Section 32. The contour data for anomalous gold values in soils suggest the possibility that zones of anomalous gold mineralization may be present following the southwest flank of the gravity high, which may reflect NW-trending faults alongside an uplifted basement high.
None of the Tonka drill holes for which the author of the technical report were able to obtain data reached the desired target horizon, the contact of the Webb Formation siltstones with the underlying Devil’s Gate Limestone. Some of the holes were lost due to bad ground, but many others were just not sited in localities from which it was feasible to reach the target at reasonable drill depths. The author believes that Cyprus holes T-95-2 and T-95-3 may have almost reached the Devil’s Gate target, having drilled at least 270 to 450 feet into the Webb Fm., which may be 600 to 750 feet thick in this area. These latter holes encountered black pyritic siltstones with local baritic horizons, interbedded with limestones. Barite is one indicator of proximity to gold mineralization at some mines in Nevada.
No mining has been conducted on the property. No metallurgy has been completed on the property. No estimates of reserves or gold mineralized material have been made on the property.
The principal target type on the property is Rain-Style gold-silver targets. Rain-Style gold-silver mineralization is typified by gold ores localized in silicified, baritized collapse breccias at the contact of the Mississippian Webb Formation siltstones with the underlying Devil’s Gate Limestone, over a nearly continuous length of 3 miles. Variations on the main theme occur in prospects elsewhere in the Rain District. Some of the breccia bodies are in the Webb Formation and some are in Devil’s Gate Limestone, such as the karst breccias found at the South Bullion deposit. Many deposits show gold mineralization in brecciated parts of both formations. Some workers believe that hydrothermal fluids which immediately preceded mineralization were responsible for the brecciation and extensive dolomitization of the uppermost part of the Devil’s Gate Limestone at Rain. One Newmont cross section shows a sulfidation (pyrite?) halo throughout much of a vertically-fractured layer of Webb Fm. above ore, but it is believed that the Webb is a nearly impermeable unit, with almost knife-edge contacts between ore and overlying waste rock, which shows little evidence of pathfinder element contamination.
Bodies of mineralized jasperoid, some quite large and continuous in lateral extent, are found in several of the deposits. The presence of jasperoid versus other types of silicification (chalcedonic to fine-grained crystalline) found in the deposits may be a function of depth at the time of deposition, with the Rain and Saddle deposits being deposited at greater depths than jasperoid-rich ones like Trout Creek.
Useful trace metal pathfinders associated with Rain-Style gold mineralization are arsenic, silver, antimony, mercury, thallium, and molybdenum. Lower-grade Rain-style deposits may have 10:1 Ag:Au ratios, while higher-grade deposits have a less than 1:1 ratio, and mercury may be higher in Rain-style than Carlin-style deposits.
Woodruff Gold-Silver Property
The Woodruff Gold-Silver Property consists of 18 unpatented lode mining claims covering approximately 360 acres, located in the Carlin Trend 5 miles south of Carlin on the north end of the Piñon Range. Access to Woodruff is by paved Highway 305 south 1 from Carlin to the Rain Mine Road, and then south for 3.5 miles on the occasionally maintained Woodruff dirt road directly to the property.
A Letter Agreement dated July 28, 2005 between Beaucache and the Pescios stipulated an AMR payment of $20,000 and 140,000 shares of Beaucache common stock upon signing of the lease agreement. Future AMR payments were to be made as follows: $35,000 on the first anniversary of the lease; $50,000 on the second anniversary; $80,000 on the third anniversary; $100,000 on the fourth anniversary; $150,000 on the fifth anniversary; and $200,000 on the sixth and subsequent anniversaries thereafter. The aforesaid AMR payments are to be deducted from a 4% NSR retained by the Pescios on the Woodruff Gold-Silver Property. Beaucache may purchase 2% of the 4% NSR for $4 million prior to completion of a bankable feasibility study.
Beaucache was required to complete 5,000 feet of drilling on the property within the first 3 years after signing of the Letter Agreement, and 7,500 feet of drilling per year thereafter. Exclusive footage drilled on the property in any year can be carried forward to subsequent years and Beaucache may pay the Pescios $10 per foot not drilled.
As part of the Arrangement, Allied Nevada will acquire the Pescios’ interest in the Woodruff Gold-Silver Property from the Pescios. The Pescios are the holders of a royalty on the claims, and are the beneficial or record owners of certain of the claims.
Geology
Elevations range between 5,800 feet in the southern arroyo bottoms to 6,481 feet on the hilltop at Woodruff. The claims are in hilly, sagebrush- covered desert and the climate is favorable for year-round mining. The hilly nature of the topography would restrict the ability of a mine operator to place minesite facilities wherever desired. Most supplies are available at Carlin and Elko, which have all the needed equipment, supplies and services for mining companies to carry out full sequence exploration and mining development on the property. The Woodruff-Tonka area has not had reported water shortages, but no aquifer testing or environmental baseline studies have been conducted.
Drilling by Kennecott on the Woodruff target in 1999 showed a thick section of autochthonous (“in-place”) Chainman Formation, uplifted by a north-trending high-angle fault. Interpretation of the geologic map indicates a north 5 degrees east (“N5E”) trending horst block at and adjacent to the Property on the east. These Chainman strata are folded into a complex, doubly-plunging (N and S) anticline, possibly representing a dome structure. Allochthonous strata of the Woodruff Formation form the west wall of the horst, and Diamond Peak conglomerates border the horst on the east. The absolute nature and configuration of the folding at Woodruff is not known, nor is the thickness of the Chainman Formation or the depth to the Webb Formation or to the Devil’s Gate - Popovich contact. Earlier explorers mapped a N23E subsidiary fault, which may be a Riedel-type shear off from the western horst boundary fault.
Sampling by Richard Redfern and by previous lessees showed anomalous values of arsenic, antimony, and mercury from the Woodruff target area around the west graben fault, as discussed below. These data are interpreted to show a geochemical leakage zone, perhaps indicative of gold mineralization at depth.
Work began at Woodruff in earnest in 1985, when Battle Mountain Gold Company drilled one hole on the Woodruff target. The company lost the data from this work, and no records of this drilling have been found. An examination of the drill site by Richard Redfern suggests that it was a shallow hole, perhaps 500 feet in depth, due to the small size of the drill cuttings pile.
A number of companies examined and sampled the property between 1985 and 2000, including Pez Gold, Cyprus, Barrick, Pittston Minerals, and Peñoles. Kennecott leased the property in 1999 and drilled one hole to a depth of 2,030 feet. The hole deflected eastward onto Newmont’s property, missed the target outlined by Mr. Pescio, and remained in Chainman Fm. for the entire length of the hole, according to a cuttings log by Dave Mathewson. No material exploration work has been done on the Woodruff property since Kennecott and prior to its acquisition by DPHC.
Gold values at the surface were uniformly low, except for one sample from the allochthonous Woodruff Fm. Arsenic appears to offer a possible good indicator of mineralization in the Rain District. The data show that the area around the west graben fault and the subsidiary fault exhibits a large zone with anomalous arsenic contents in rocks, both in Chainman Fm. and in the Woodruff Fm. rocks. A number of highly anomalous values also occur east of the graben fault.
Kennecott conducted a Complete Bouguer Gravity survey atop the Woodruff target in November, 1999. Data indicate gradually decreasing gravity in a WSW direction, with a single-point gravity low on the central western edge of the Woodruff claims area. It is not known whether the single-point low is of any material significance.
The results of the two holes drilled at Woodruff show no data pertaining to the Battle Mountain Gold drill hole. The Kennecott drill hole stayed in Chainman sandstones and siltstones for its entire length. The depth to Webb Formation was not defined by these drill holes, or by other available data.
No mining has been conducted on the property. No metallurgy has been completed on the property. No estimates of reserves or gold mineralized material have been made on the property.
The principal target type on the Woodruff Gold-Silver Property is Rain-Style gold-silver targets. Rain-Style gold-silver mineralization is typified by gold ores localized in silicified, baritized collapse breccias at the contact of the Mississippian Webb Formation siltstones with the underlying Devil’s Gate Limestone. Variations on the main theme occur in prospects elsewhere in the Rain District. Some of the breccia bodies are in the Webb Formation and some are in Devil’s Gate Limestone, such as the karst breccias found at the South Bullion deposit. Many deposits show gold mineralization in brecciated parts of both formations. Some workers believe that hydrothermal fluids which immediately preceded mineralization were responsible for the brecciation and extensive dolomitization of the uppermost part of the Devil’s Gate Limestone at a nearby mine. One Newmont cross section shows a sulfidation halo throughout much of a vertically-fractured layer of Webb Fm. above ore, but it is believed that the Webb is a nearly impermeable unit, with almost knife-edge contacts between ore and overlying waste rock, which shows little evidence of pathfinder element contamination.
Useful trace metal pathfinders associated with Rain-Style gold mineralization are arsenic, silver, antimony, mercury, thallium, and molybdenum. Lower-grade Rain-style deposits may have 10:1 Ag:Au ratios, while higher-grade deposits have a less than 1:1 ratio, and mercury may be higher in Rain-style than Carlin-style deposits.
Item 3.