Item 2. Properties
We classify our mineral properties into two categories: “Operating Properties” and “Exploration Properties”. Operating Properties are properties on which the Company operates a producing mine. We currently have one Operating Property, namely the Hycroft Mine as discussed below. Please see below for information about our Operating Properties and Exploration Properties.
Other than the Hycroft Mine, we cannot be certain that any mineral deposits will be discovered in sufficient quantities and grade to justify commercial operations. Whether a mineral deposit will be commercially viable depends on a number of factors, including the particular attributes of the deposit; metal prices, which are highly cyclical; the cost to extract and process the mineralized material; and government regulations and permitting requirements. We may be unable to upgrade our mineralized material to proven and probable reserves in sufficient quantities to justify commercial operations and we may not be able to raise sufficient capital to develop our properties. Estimates of reserves and mineralization herein are subject to the effect of changes in metal prices, and to the risks inherent in mining and processing operations.
In addition, Allied Nevada has acquired seven geothermal leases during 2009 from the BLM. These leases occur in proximity to existing Allied Nevada mineral holdings, and were obtained through competitive bidding.
Operating Properties
Technical Report
The information that follows relating to the Hycroft Mine (other than the information under the heading “Hycroft Exploration Drilling Program”) is derived from, and in some instances is an extract from, the technical report dated May 15, 2009, (the “Hycroft Technical Report”) authored by Scott Wilson, C.P.G. of Scott E. Wilson Consulting, Inc. (“Wilson Consulting”) in respect of the Hycroft Mine and its reactivation, as well as from our current assumptions and life of mine plan. At the time of the preparation of the Hycroft Technical Report, Mr. Wilson was independent of the Company and was a “qualified person”, as that term is defined in Canadian Securities Administrators’ National Instrument 43-101 (“NI 43-101”).
Portions of the following information are based on assumptions, qualifications and procedures which are not fully described herein. Reference should be made to the full text of the Hycroft Technical Report which has been filed with certain Canadian securities regulatory authorities pursuant to NI 43-101 and is available for review at www.sedar.com. Allied Nevada expects to file a NI 43-101 technical report with an updated reserve and resource estimate in the second quarter of 2010.
Hycroft Mine
We currently have one Operating Property, the Hycroft Mine, which we also refer to as the “Hycroft Mine” in this document. This mine and related facilities are located 54 miles west of Winnemucca, Nevada. Winnemucca (population 15,000) is a commercial community on Interstate 80, 164 miles northeast of Reno, Nevada. The town is served by a transcontinental railroad and has a small airport. Access to the Hycroft Mine from Winnemucca, Nevada is by means of State Road No. 49 (Jungo Road), a well maintained gravel road. The entrance to the mine is several hundred feet off the road. Well-maintained mine and exploration roads provide access throughout the property. Access is also possible from Imlay and from Lovelock by unpaved roads intersecting Interstate 80. The majority of our employees live in the Winnemucca area.
The mine is situated on the eastern edge of the Black Rock Desert and on the western flank of the Kamma Mountains between Winnemucca and Gerlach, Nevada. There are no streams, rivers, or major lakes in the general area. Elevations in the mine area range between 4,500 and 5,500 ft above sea level.
The Company holds 26 patented and 2,427 unpatented mining claims that constitute our Hycroft Mine Operating Property. The total acreage covered by these claims is approximately 49,000 acres with approximately 1,600 acres related to the patented claims. The details of these claims and the holding requirements are discussed in greater detail in the geology and ore reserve section that follows.
The climate of the region is arid, with precipitation averaging 7.6 inches per year. Temperatures during the summer range from 50°F to greater than 90°F and winter temperatures range from 20°F to 40°F. There is strong surface heating during the day and rapid nighttime cooling because of the dry air. This results in wide ranges in daily temperatures.
The Hycroft Mine consists of multiple open pit mines, associated waste dumps and two heap leach pads. The Hycroft Mine was formally known as the Crofoot Lewis open pit mine. Mining began in the area in 1983 with a small heap leaching operation known as the Lewis mine. Lewis mine production was followed by production from the Crofoot property in the Bay, South Central, Boneyard, Gap and Cut 4 pits along the Central fault, and finally the north end of the Brimstone pit and continued until it was placed on a care and maintenance program in December 1998 due to low gold prices.
The Lewis mine was acquired by Vista in early 1987 from F.W. Lewis, Inc. and the Crofoot mine was acquired by Vista in April 1988. The leasehold interest in the Lewis property along with gold and silver NSRs was purchased from F.W. Lewis, Inc. by Vista on December 13, 2005 in consideration of the payment of $5.1 million. The Crofoot property was originally held under two leases and is now owned by Allied Nevada subject to a 4% net profits interest retained by the former owners. The lease agreements include for the payment of advance royalty payments of $0.1 million in any year where mining occurs on the Crofoot claims. All advance royalty payments are credited against the future payments under the 4% net profits royalty.
The Hycroft Mine produced over one million ounces of gold from the commencement of mining operations in 1987, until the operations were placed on a care and maintenance program, as a result of low gold prices in December of 1998. Gold production from the leaching and rinsing of the heap leach pads, continued in 2000 and 2001. In 2002, 2003, 2004 and 2005, the amount of gold recovered was not material.
During 2009, the Hycroft Mine completed its first full year of mining operations and the Company sold 42,358 ounces of gold. The Company mined 24.4 million tonnes of material including 8.9 million tonnes of ore at an average grade of 0.75 g/t gold and 7.58 g/t silver. The mine placed approximately 214,200 ounces of gold on the pad and approximately 2,161,800 ounces of silver (or 121,200 ounces of recoverable gold and 216,200 ounces of recoverable silver). The mine did not achieve management’s expected production rates in 2009 due to a number of operational challenges stemming from a delay in operating the newly constructed areas of leach pad expansion. In addition to these short-term operating challenges at Hycroft, it was discovered in the fourth quarter that cyanide consumption was much higher than anticipated. The acid leach material mined in 2009, for which we have only limited historical operating data, had relatively high sulphur and silver grades requiring a higher cyanide concentration be used. This has resulted in the shortfall in ounces sold in 2009. These issues have been corrected and production levels and leach pad performance are meeting expectation. For the months of January and February 2010, the mine produced approximately 15,300 ounces of gold and approximately 36,300 ounces of silver, indicating the mine has now achieved normal production rates. Current production from the new areas of pad under leach is performing as expected with recoveries and gold release within planned levels. These were short-term issues which management believes have been resolved and should not affect production going forward.
The major activities that occurred during 2009 were as follows:
•
In March 2009, we announced an update to the resource estimate at Hycroft of gold measured and indicated resources of 5.9 million ounces (440.9 million tonnes at 0.43 grams per tonne (“g/t”) using a cut off grade of 0.17 g/t for oxide material and 0.45 g/t for sulphide material) and silver measured and indicated resources of 117.5 million ounces (104.6 million tonnes at 36.12 g/t). Inferred silver resources were 114.9 million tonnes grading 49.78 g/t. The resource estimate was derived from 3,626 holes drilled on the property. The majority of the increase in oxide measured and indicated ounces is due to the result of metallurgical test work on the material contained in the oxide/sulphide boundary zone. Inferred resources declined slightly as more inferred ounces were converted to the measured and indicated category than were replaced by new additions. Proven and probable reserves of 1.1 million ounces of gold (66.4 million tonnes grading 0.55 g/t) from previously reported reserves in September 2008 did not change as a result of this new estimate. A resource update is expected by the end of the first quarter of 2010.
•
In April 2009, we announced positive initial metallurgical results on sulphide mineralization which indicated that the mineralization is amenable to concentration using simple, conventional flotation technology. Rougher flotation results revealed recovery of gold and silver in the high 80% range using a coarse grind with cleaner flotation results indicating an overall flotation concentration in excess of 20:1. This has been confirmed with subsequent testing and ongoing work will continue to identify the most cost effective extraction methods and optimal processing plan for the sulphide mineralization. Additional testing completed in 2009 confirmed these results. Testing of 20 new samples taken from other areas of the mine are nearing completion and results are anticipated by the end of the first quarter of 2010.
•
In July 2009, we completed the construction of a new refinery at Hycroft allowing for the refining of metals on-site, reducing the time to produce and sell doré.
•
In August 2009, we completed a cross-border public offering of 11,150,000 shares of common stock of the Company at a price of CDN$9.00 per common share, for aggregate gross proceeds of approximately CDN$100,350,000. This provided a much stronger balance sheet, thereby allowing the Company more flexibility to accelerate its exploration program to aid in expansion and optimization studies for oxide mineralization and development of a feasibility study for sulphide mineralization.
•
In September 2009, we began an accelerated exploration program at Hycroft following the completion of the August 2009 public offering. In 2009, we drilled 129 holes, totaling approximately 29,000 meters, with an encouraging discovery in the Vortex zone to the south of the Brimstone pit of high-grade silver mineralization. As announced in 2010, this drilling indicates that we may have discovered the mineralizing feeder system; however, further drilling is required to confirm the continuity of this high-grade mineralization.
•
In November 2009, we completed the second phase of the Brimstone leach pad expansion, a 2.4 million square foot expansion on-time and on-budget. All cells of the expansion are now under leach and performing as expected.
•
In 2009, we received a “Sentinels of Safety” award at Hycroft for 2008, highlighting the mine’s excellent safety record.
Capital expenditures in 2010 are expected to be approximately $25 million. At Hycroft, we expect to begin construction on phase three of the Brimstone leach pad expansion in the second quarter of 2010. This phase will increase the available heap leach pad space by a further 3.5 million square feet at a capital cost of approximately $10 million. Construction of this third phase of the expansion is expected to be completed by the end of the third quarter of 2010. In addition, we announced our intention to begin crushing ore at Hycroft in 2010 with the purchase of a mobile crushing system capable of crushing four million tonnes of material per year (or approximately 30% of ore tonnes mined), expected in the first half of the year. With the addition of this system, gold recovery of crushed ore is expected to increase from current run of mine performance of 56.6% to approximately 78% and silver recovery of crushed ore is expected to increase from current run of mine performance of 10% to approximately 30%. Hycroft will also expand the mining fleet with the addition of a second production drill, a D-11 size dozer, primarily to be used for the reclamation of the historic Crofoot leach pad, and other ancillary mining and production equipment.
We are expecting to provide a reserve and resource update in the first quarter of 2010.
Metallurgical test work is escalating with the significant number of samples of oxide and sulphide mineralization attained during the 2009 drill season, and we expect to be releasing results of this test work over the course of the year. A significant portion of the metallurgical test work will focus on property wide sulphide mineralization in preparation of a feasibility study, expected in the first half of 2011.
Geology
The Hycroft Mine is located on the western flank of the Kamma Mountains. The deposit is hosted in a volcanic eruptive breccia and conglomerates associated with the Tertiary Kamma Mountain volcanics. The volcanics are mainly acidic to intermediate tuffs, flows and coarse volcaniclastic rocks. Fragments of these units dominate the clasts in the eruptive breccia. Volcanic rocks have been block-faulted by dominant north-trending structures, which have affected the distribution of alteration and mineralization. The Central Fault and East Fault control the distribution of mineralization and subsequent oxidation. A post-mineral range-front fault separates the orebody from the adjacent Pleistocene Lahontan Lake sediments in the Black Rock Desert.
The known gold mineralization within the Crofoot and Lewis properties extends for a distance of three miles in a north-south direction by 1.5 miles in an east-west direction. Mineralization extends to a depth of less than 330 feet in the outcropping to near-outcropping portion of the deposit on the northwest side to over 1,000 feet in the Brimstone deposit in the east. Not all the mineralization is oxidized and the depth of oxide ore varies considerably over the area of mineralization.
We currently have 26 patented claims that comprise approximately 1,600 acres and 2,427 unpatented claims that comprise approximately 47,125 acres. Combining the patented and unpatented claims, our claims total approximately 49,000 acres. This claim package was acquired by the Company in a series of transactions:
•
The Crofoot property and approximately 3,500 acres of claims were acquired by Vista in 1988. The Crofoot property, originally held under lease, is owned by Hycroft Resources & Development, Inc. subject to a 4% net profits interest retained by the former owners.
•
The F.W. Lewis property and approximately 8,700 acres of claims were acquired by Vista in early 1987
•
In 2006, approximately 13,100 acres of additional claims were staked by Vista. These claims were around or contiguous to the original Crofoot and F.W. Lewis Claims.
•
In 2008, we staked approximately 22,700 acres of additional claims contiguous to or around the existing Hycroft claims.
•
In 2009, we staked an additional 79 claims contiguous to or around the existing Hycroft land holding.
Our Hycroft patented claims occupy private lands and our unpatented claims occupy public lands. The public lands include unpatented mining claims on lands administered by the BLM. These claims are governed by the laws and regulations of the U.S. federal government and the state of Nevada. To maintain the patented claims in good standing, we must pay the annual property tax payments to the county in which the claims are held. To maintain the unpatented claims in good standing, we must file a notice of intent to maintain the claims and pay the annual mineral claim filing fees to the state and the BLM.
Ore Reserves
Wilson Consulting, Inc. issued the Hycroft Technical Report on May 15, 2009, in accordance with NI 43-101 guidelines. The report and verification of the data employed in the report was undertaken under the supervision of Mr. Scott Wilson, C.P.G., a “qualified person” under NI 43-101 and independent of Allied Nevada. Allied Nevada expects to release an updated reserve and resource statement in a NI 43-101 technical report in the second quarter of 2010.
Wilson Consulting, Inc. prepared this technical report of the Hycroft Mine at our request. This report was intended to provide a technical summary of the Hycroft Mine gold and silver resources and reserves for Allied Nevada. This technical report is written in compliance with disclosure and reporting requirements set forth in the NI 43-101, Companion Policy 43-101CP, and Form 43-101F1 and reconciled as appropriate to conform to SEC Industry Guide 7. Prior to this report, Wilson Consulting, Inc. had authored a technical report pertaining to the Hycroft Mine dated October 17, 2008. The technical information contained in the May 15, 2009 technical report reflects material changes that occurred since the October 2008 report.
Wilson Consulting, Inc. evaluated Allied Nevada’s current economic forecasts and used these criteria to report the proven and probable mineral reserves for the Hycroft Mine. Mining sequences were determined and mining plans were developed. Wilson Consulting, Inc. believed that there had been sufficient evaluations of mining, processing, economic and environmental factors to support the determination of proven and probable reserves for the Hycroft Mine.
Wilson Consulting, utilizing the guidelines prescribed by NI 43-101 and SEC Industry Guide 7, determined proven and probable mineral reserves within a pit design that is economic using a cutoff grade of 0.17 grams per tonne of gold. In compliance with SEC Industry Guide 7, these reported reserves were determined to be economic using a gold price average of $650. This gold price is lower than the maximum gold price allowed for reserve determination. Gold recovery utilizing a run-of-mine heap leach process is estimated to be 56.6% for both proven and probable reserves.
Below is a summary of the mineral reserves and resources per the May 15, 2009 technical report:
“Mineralized material”, as used in this Form 10-K, although permissible under SEC Industry Guide 7, does not indicate “reserves” by SEC standards. We cannot be certain that any part of the deposits will ever be confirmed or converted into SEC Industry Guide 7 compliant “reserves.” You are cautioned not to assume that all or any part of the mineralized material will ever be confirmed or converted into reserves or that mineralized material can be economically or legally extracted.
Mine Operations
The mining of our current proven and probable ore reserves in the Brimstone Pit and Cut-5 Pit will be conducted by open pit methods using 200-ton haul trucks, 26-yard wheel loaders and DML blast hole drills. Mining in the Brimstone pit has been designed with five mining phases, and the Cut-5 Pit will be mined in one single top-down mining sequence. Our current mine plans are based upon an annual mining rate of 22 million tonnes of material per year, using 25 foot lifts and three lifts per catch bench.
We are currently in the second phase of five phases of mining in the Brimstone Pit. This phase of mining involves the mining of more ore and less waste, as experienced in the previous phase, and it is expected that the strip ratio will be lower than the average life of mine strip ratio of 1.27:1. In January 2010, the Board of Directors of Allied Nevada approved the purchase of a mobile crushing unit at Hycroft. This crushing unit, capable of crushing twelve thousand tonnes per day to 3/4 inch minus, is expected to be operational by mid-year 2010. Acid leach material, which is relatively soft material and does not require crushing, will make up most of the feed for 2010, and we will transition to harder siliceous ore, which will be processed through the crusher in the second half of 2010. It is anticipated that we will mine out the acid leach material by mid-2011, and we may ultimately add two more similar crushing systems as more siliceous ore feed comes available.
For most of 2010, we will haul and place the ore production from the mine on the Brimstone pad system as run of mine material. Once the crusher is installed, higher grade siliceous ore will be crushed and hauled to the leach pad. The Brimstone pad system is currently comprised of the previously operated Brimstone leach pad and the 3.5 million square foot leach pad expansions we completed in 2008 and 2009. This leach pad system has sufficient capacity to handle our ore placement requirements for 2010. We plan to continually expand this leach pad system in 2010 and future years as production requires. All ore-grade material placed on the leach pad will be cross-ripped to enhance permeability. A network of solution drip lines will be positioned and the run of mine material will be leached with a cyanide solution for a period of 60 to 90 days before another 30 ft high lift of ore is placed on top of the existing lift. Return solution from the pad containing the precious metals is directed to the pregnant solution pond. Gold will be removed from pregnant solutions using a CIL process and at the Brimstone plant using the Merrill-Crowe process. The product from the CIL process will be transported to a third party for processing to recover the precious metals from the carbon and produce a doré containing gold and silver. Doré containing gold and silver will be produced at the Hycroft Mine from the Merrill-Crowe process. Based on previous operating experience 56.6% of the gold placed on the pad as run of mine production is expected to be recovered in the plant. Crushing ore is expected to improve recovery of gold and silver to approximately 78% and 30%, respectively.
The doré containing gold and silver will then be shipped to a contract refinery to be further processed into gold and silver bullion. The contained gold and silver is typically sold in either a doré or bullion form. When sold in a doré format, the contained gold and silver will be sold to a metals merchant who will ultimately receive the delivery of bullion from the refinery. Alternatively, we can sell the gold and silver bullions once the refining process has been completed.
During 2010, we expect to evaluate a number of alternatives to increase the annual gold production from the Hycroft Mine. The alternatives we are considering include the following:
•
Increasing mining rates in order to increase annual gold production. Initial studies show that the mine plan and process facilities can accommodate a 30% expansion to mining rates. This increased mining rate would be accomplished by the use of a mining contractor or the purchase of additional mining equipment. A 30% increase to the total mining rate would be expected to increase ore production by approximately 3 million tonnes per annum and would increase annual gold production by 15,000- 25,000 ounces per year. Operating costs are expected to be similar to those presently experienced at the mine.
•
By increasing the grade of gold and silver in the pregnant solution, the operating efficiencies of the Merrill-Crowe plant and the CIL plant would improve. The 2010 operating plan includes the expansion of ponds, pumps, piping and leach pads to allow for “stacking” of the pregnant solution (increasing the grade of the pregnant solution). The benefits of this optimization program would not be realized until 2011.
Additionally, we expect to continue our oxide exploration drilling program in 2010 and future years to identify additional proven and probable oxide reserves that could ultimately increase the total amount of gold mined at the Hycroft Mine.
The site receives line current provided by NVEnergy from the northwestern power grid. With the cooperation of the power provider, we inspected the substations, power lines and transformers and repaired and replaced any necessary components.
We currently have water rights, which we believe are adequate to process the planned ore. We have rehabilitated the primary process water well and fresh water well and have developed a new back up process water well.
Hycroft Mine Exploration
Since the formation of the Company in May 2007, Allied Nevada, as of year-end 2009, has drilled a total of 524 holes, for combined total of 120,170 meters, at the Hycroft mine.
Material from all the holes has been assayed using a fire assay procedure for both gold and silver content by one of two independent laboratories.
Upon completion of a drill hole, the hole is surveyed and then plugged. Management of the drill program, sample collection and assay program is being carried out by Allied Nevada. Qualified independent consultants have reviewed all aspects of the exploration program and are expected to conduct regular reviews of the ongoing exploration program.
In 2009, we drilled 129 holes, representing approximately 29,000 meters, with an encouraging discovery in the Vortex zone to the south of the Brimstone pit of high-grade silver mineralization.
As announced in early 2010, this drilling indicates that we may have discovered the mineralizing feeder system; however, further drilling is required to confirm the continuity of this high-grade mineralization. We are expecting to announce a reserve update in 2010, incorporating all drilling to the end of January 2010.
Of the 2009 total program, 30 holes were directed towards infill of the Vortex zone and 64 holes towards infill of the Bay area. The balance of the holes were primarily drilled to obtain material for metallurgical testing of other zones.
A 30,500 meter exploration program has been designed for 2010 with a focus on expanding oxide and sulphide resources, improving the confidence level of oxide resources to the reserve categories, and testing the extent of high-grade silver anomalies encountered at the end of the 2009 drill season. Exploration spending at Hycroft will be success-driven and is expected to be approximately $16 million in 2010. In addition, the Company may conduct targeted surface exploration and drilling on certain of its advanced and exploration properties where the Company believes encouraging exploration opportunities exist.
Management intends to continue exploration drilling on the sulphide system in 2010. Additional metallurgical testing and engineering work in 2010 will be conducted as part of a pre-feasibility study evaluating the economic viability of the sulphide mineralization. The study is expected to be completed in 2011.
The analysis of the current drill results and historical geological information suggests that gold and silver mineralization is hosted along north-south trending zones of approximately 14,000 feet in length. These zones are partially defined laterally by post-mineral faults. The following individual zones, from west to east, currently recognized are: Camel, Cove, Central, Boneyard, Albert, Fire, Brimstone, and Vortex. The 2010 program is planned to include further exploration of the Vortex, Albert, Cut-5 and Bay Area zones.
Any expansion of the Hycroft Mine necessary to exploit any additional reserves that may be established through our Hycroft exploration drilling program that are not located within our current mine plan, will require us to obtain all necessary permits, approvals and consents of regulatory agencies responsible for the use and development of mines in Nevada.
Exploration Properties
Exploration Properties are both those properties where we retain a significant controlling interest or joint venture and where there has been sufficient drilling and analysis completed to identify and report reserves or other mineralized material and more than 100 earlier-stage exploration properties. Allied Nevada currently has six properties on which mineralized material has been identified: Maverick Springs (a 45% joint venture with Silver Standard), Mountain View, Hasbrouck, Three Hills, Wildcat and Pony Creek/Elliot Dome.
None of these properties currently have proven or probable reserves as defined by Industry Guide 7. We are currently evaluating these six properties to determine how to best advance these projects by increasing the identified mineral resources, improving the quality of these mineral resources, or advancing the project to a development decision.
The following map provides the general location of each of these six properties on which we have identified mineralized material. All of the Company’s properties are within the state of Nevada.
The following table summarizes information we consider important concerning our Advanced Exploration Properties. The reader is directed to the more comprehensive information about these properties starting immediately following the summary table.
Advanced Exploration Properties
Summary Information
Maverick Springs
The Maverick Springs project is located in northeast Nevada at the southeast end of the Carlin Trend belt of gold-silver mineralization, approximately half-way between Elko and Ely, Nevada. A gravel road provides immediate access to the property from the Ruby Valley road. The property consists of 246 claims with a total area of approximately 4,920 acres.
On October 7, 2002, Vista completed the acquisition of a 100% interest in the Maverick Springs gold and silver project from Newmont Mining Corporation (“Newmont”) and the Mountain View gold project (described below) from Newmont’s wholly-owned subsidiary Newmont Capital Limited (“Newmont Capital”). Maverick Springs is subject to a lease agreement, between Newmont and Artemis Exploration Company. The lease was entered into on October 1, 2001, and the key terms include: payment of advance minimum royalties of $50,000 on October 1, 2003 (this has been paid) and advance minimum royalties of $100,000 on October 1, 2004 (this has been paid), $100,000 on October 1, 2005 (this has been paid) and each year thereafter while the agreement is in effect; work commitments of 6,400 feet of exploration drilling, on or before October 1 in each of 2002 (extended by agreement to November 15, 2002), 2003 and 2004 (these commitments have been met), a preliminary economic evaluation to be conducted by October 1, 2004 which was extended to April 7, 2005 (this has been completed); and a net smelter returns royalty based on a sliding scale ranging from 2% to 6%, depending on gold and silver prices at the time of production.
On June 9, 2003, Vista entered into an agreement granting Silver Standard Resources Inc. (“Silver Standard”) an option to acquire its interest in the silver mineralized material hosted in the Maverick Springs project. Allied Nevada, as successor to Vista, will retain its 100% interest in the gold mineralized material. The agreement with SSRI is subject to the terms of the Newmont purchase agreement. Under the agreement, Silver Standard was to pay $1.5 million over four years, completing the $1.5 million obligation in 2005. Since Silver Standard has satisfied the $1.5 million obligation, all costs incurred for Maverick Springs are now being shared by
the two corporations as stated below. Silver Standard and Vista formed a committee to jointly manage exploration of the Maverick Springs project. Allied Nevada, as successor to Vista, has a 45% vote on the committee, and Silver Standard is the operator and has a 55% vote. Since Silver Standard has completed its $1.5 million in payments, future costs will be shared by Silver Standard and Allied Nevada on the same ratio as established for operation of the management committee: Allied Nevada 45% / Silver Standard 55%, subject to standard dilution provisions.
Prior operators have conducted drilling on the Maverick Springs project. In November 2002, Vista completed a 7-hole reverse circulation drill program totaling 7,020 feet on the Maverick Springs project. The program consisted of seven vertical reverse circulation holes, stepped out 500 feet to 2,200 feet from previously identified mineralization. All seven holes encountered flat-lying mineralization, predominantly oxidized to depths of up to 900 feet. The program outlined continuous mineralization in a 2,200-foot by 1,200-foot area, immediately adjacent to known gold-silver mineralization. With additional in-fill drilling, this newly outlined mineralization has the potential to significantly increase the mineralized material.
In October 2003, Vista completed a 16-hole reverse circulation program totaling 14,015 feet, in October 2004, Vista completed a 13-hole reverse circulation program totaling 13,015 feet and in August 2006, Vista completed a 18-hole reverse circulation drill program totaling approximately 16,000 feet. In the 4th quarter of 2008, Silver Standard completed a 5-hole program totaling 5,305 feet. These results indicate the potential for bulk-mineable gold-silver mineralization.
Geology
Maverick Springs can be classified as a Carlin-type or sediment/carbonate hosted disseminated silver-gold deposit. Sediment hosted deposits are common within northern Nevada, although the systems are usually gold dominated with relatively minor amounts of silver. Silver and gold mineralization at Maverick Springs has been interpreted as a roughly antiformal or arch-shaped zone with an axis that plunges shallowly to the south and seems to flatten to horizontal over the northern half of the deposit. The limbs of the arch dip shallowly to moderately at 10-30o to the east and west. Overall, the mineralized zone is elongated in the north-south direction with a length of over 6,000 feet, a width of up to 3,000 feet, and a thickness of commonly 100-300 feet.
Mineralization consists of micron-sized silver and gold with related pyrite, stibnite and arsenic sulphides. It is usually associated with intense fracturing and brecciation, with or without accompanying whole-rock silicification or stockwork quartz.
Alteration consists of pervasive decalcification, weak to intense silicification and weak alunitic argillization. Massive jasperoid is common in surface exposures and in drill core. Oxidation has affected all sulphides on surface and is pervasive to a depth of at least 400 feet, intermittent to 900 feet, and generally absent below 1,000 feet.
Based on a third-party technical study performed on behalf of Vista, the Maverick Springs project contains approximately 63 million tonnes of mineralized material with an average grade of 0.34 grams of gold per tonne and 34.29 grams of silver per tonne at a silver-equivalent cut-off grade of 34.29 grams of silver per tonne.
Mountain View
The Mountain View property is located in northwest Nevada near the Blackrock Desert. The property is approximately 15 miles northwest of Gerlach, Nevada in Washoe County; it straddles the boundary between the Squaw Valley and Banjo topographic quadrangles. The property is accessed from Gerlach by traveling approximately 14 miles along Nevada State Highway 447, a paved road, and then approximately one (1) mile east along an unimproved dirt road. On the property, drill roads provide good access to most areas. The property currently consists of 128 claims with a total area of approximately 2,560 acres.
Vista’s acquisition of the Mountain View property was completed along with that of the Maverick Springs property, as described above. To acquire the interest in the Mountain View property, Vista paid cash of $50,000 and issued 56,497 equity units, each unit comprised of one Vista share and a two-year Vista warrant, to Newmont Capital, and Newmont Capital retains a 1.5% NSR. Newmont Capital’s interest in the Mountain View property is subject to an underlying lease and two other royalty arrangements, the principal terms of which are: the underlying lease grants a 50% interest to Newmont in all claims, with a few exceptions where a 5% interest is granted; and the lessee may purchase the remaining interest in the claims for $250,000 at any time. The lessee is obligated to purchase the remaining 50% for $250,000 on achieving commercial production. Also, the lessee shall pay a 1% NSR during production, with advance minimum payments of $25,000 per year. Advanced royalties are deductible from the net smelter returns royalty and cease upon purchase of the remaining interest of the underlying lease. A 1% NSR also applies to certain other claims.
Prior operators have conducted drilling on the Mountain View property. Vista completed a five-hole reverse circulation program totaling 4,330 feet in November 2003. The results indicate the presence of a new zone of bulk mineralization approximately 200 feet east of the known core of mineralization. Vista completed a five-hole reverse circulation program totaling 4,070 feet in 2004, and the results indicate potential bulk-mineable gold mineralization and the down-dip extension of higher-grade gold mineralization.
Geology
The dominant rock types in the area are Miocene volcanics and interbedded volcaniclastic sediments. Minor greenschist facies Permo-Triassic strata occur to the northeast and a large body of granodiorite makes up the bulk of the Granite Range to the east and south.
The Miocene lithologies consist of mafic tuffs, rhyolite tuffs and flows, volcaniclastic sediments and basalts. These units are separated from the Granite Range to the east by a range front normal fault that dips steeply to the southwest. The Severance deposit is hosted by a unit known as the Severance rhyolite that is sandwiched between the range front fault to the northeast and older Tertiary tuffs, flows and volcaniclastic sediments to the southwest.
Structure on the property is dominated by northwest and northeast trending faults. Major fault offsets occur along the range-front fault system and these are offset by the northeast trending structures. Recent alluvium is offset by the range front faults.
Based on a third-party technical study performed on behalf of Vista, the Mountain View project contains approximately 21 million tonnes of gold mineralized material with an average grade of 0.45 grams of gold per tonne at a cut-off grade of 0.21 grams of gold per tonne.
Hasbrouck
The Hasbrouck property is located in southwestern Nevada about 5 miles south-southwest of the town of Tonopah in Esmeralda County, Nevada, adjacent to U.S. Highway 95 and approximately half-way between Reno and Las Vegas. The Hasbrouck property is located about five (5) miles south of Tonopah, Nevada. The property is accessed from Tonopah by traveling south along State Highway 95, which transects the claim block. The project is accessed by a gravel road off of U.S. Highway 95 that connects to a network of dirt drill roads that traverse Hasbrouck Mountain. The property consists of 22 patented lode mining claims and 61 unpatented lode claims that cover an area of approximately 1,300 acres.
On May 23, 2003, Vista executed a purchase agreement with Newmont Capital, which includes both the Hasbrouck property and the Three Hills property, which lies approximately 4.5 miles to the north-northwest. Newmont Capital, at its option, will retain either: (a) a 2% NSR in each project together with the right to a $500,000 cash payment at the start of commercial production at either project and a further $500,000 cash payment if, after the start of commercial production, the gold price averages $400 per ounce or more for any three-month period; or (b) the right to acquire 51% of either or both projects. The latter right would be exercisable only after the later of four years or the time when Allied Nevada, and historically Vista, have incurred aggregate expenditures of $1.0 million to acquire, explore and hold the projects and would include Newmont Capital paying to Allied Nevada cash equaling 200% of the expenditures made by Allied Nevada, and historically Vista, on the related property. In this event, Newmont Capital would become operator of a joint venture with Allied Nevada, and both parties would fund the project through to a production decision. Allied Nevada’s contribution to the joint venture during this period is capped at $5.0 million, $3.0 million of which Newmont Capital would finance for Allied Nevada and recover, with interest, exclusively from related project cash flows. Allied Nevada would also grant Newmont Capital a right of first offer with respect to subsequent sale of the projects by Allied Nevada. An additional 1.5% NSR on the Hasbrouck property is held by a private party.
Geology
The property is located on Hasbrouck Mountain, which is thought to lie along the western edge of a caldera. The mountain is underlain by gently dipping ash-flow, air-fall and waterlain tuffs and volcaniclastic sediments of the Miocene Siebert Formation. Several occurrences of chalcedonic sinter deposits occur near the summit of the mountain. Gold and silver mineralization in the Hasbrouck deposit appears to have formed relatively close to the paleo-surface in an epithermal, hot spring environment. The mineralization is concentrated in the Siebert Formation, in units stratigraphically below the chalcedonic sinter deposits that are exposed near the top of Hasbrouck Mountain. Two zones of mineralization are presently defined. The “Main” zone includes the bulk of mineralization at Hasbrouck, while the small “South Adit” zone lies 700 to 1000 feet to the south of the “Main” zone.
A third-party technical study was completed for Vista in August 2003 and was updated in August 2006. The Hasbrouck study was developed using data from 54,339 feet of drilling, principally comprised of 105 reverse circulation holes totaling 44,400 feet and 22 rotary drill holes totaling 8,980 feet. The drilling database was compiled from work performed by FMC Gold Co., Cordex Syndicate and Franco Nevada Inc. between 1974 and 1988. Based on this study, mineralized material above a cut-off of 0.34 grams of gold per tonne is 18 million tonnes with an average grade of 0.79 grams of gold per tonne and 10.97 grams of silver per tonne.
Three Hills
Three Hills is located in southwestern Nevada about 1 mile west of the town of Tonopah in Esmeralda County, Nevada, and about 4.5 miles northwest of the Hasbrouck property described above. Access to the site is via county-maintained gravel roads from the northwest end of town. Three Hills consists of 15 unpatented lode claims totaling approximately 201 acres.
On May 23, 2003, Vista executed a purchase agreement with Newmont Capital, which included both the Hasbrouck property and the Three Hills property. The terms of this agreement are detailed under the Hasbrouck description above.
Geology
Three Hills is located in the Walker Lane structural domain of the Basin and Range physiographic province. It is in an area of structural disruption resulting from a series of orogenic events occurring in Paleozoic, Mesozoic and Cenozoic times. Basin and Range high-angle normal faults control the mineralization at Three Hills, where they cut the Siebert Formation. Gold mineralization occurs in a zone of pervasive silicification and in the Siebert Formation and the upper 10 to 30 feet of the Fraction Tuff. The contact between these two units contains consistently higher grades of gold and is more commonly argillized than silicified.
A third-party technical study was completed for Vista in August 2003 and was updated in August 2006. The Three Hills study included data from 62,874 feet of drilling, comprised of 183 reverse circulation holes totaling 54,657 feet, 45 air-track and rotary holes totaling 6,320 feet and 9 diamond drill holes totaling 1,897 feet. The drilling was completed by Echo Bay Mines Ltd., Eastfield Resources, Saga Exploration and Cordex Syndicate between 1974 and 1996. Based on this study, gold mineralized material above a cut-off of 0.34 grams of gold per tonne was 5 million tonnes with an average grade of 0.79 grams of gold per tonne.
Wildcat
Wildcat is located about 35 miles northwest of Lovelock and 26 miles south of the Hycroft Mine in Pershing County, Nevada. The property is accessed, from Lovelock, by traveling 15 miles along Nevada State Route 399, a paved road, and then approximately 16 miles along a well-maintained gravel road through Sage Valley. The east property boundary is approximately 2.5 miles west of the road through Sage Valley, along a gravel road. Four-wheel drive roads traverse the property. The project consists of 125 unpatented claims and 4 patented claims, comprising 2,500 acres.
During September and October 2003, Vista concluded due diligence reviews and executed formal purchase agreements to acquire the Wildcat project and the associated exploration data in three separate transactions. On September 23, 2003, Vista purchased 71 unpatented mining claims from Monex Exploration. On commencement of commercial production, Allied Nevada will make a one-time production payment in the amount of $500,000. Thirteen of the claims are subject to an underlying 0.4% NSR, and the remaining 58 claims are subject to an underlying 1% NSR.
On October 12, 2003, Vista purchased a 100% interest in the Vernal unpatented mining claim from David C. Mough and Jody Ahlquist Mough.
On October 28, 2003, Vista purchased four patented mining claims and exploration data from Sagebrush Exploration, Inc. The four patented claims are subject to an underlying net smelter returns royalty of 1% for gold production between 500,000 and 1,000,000 ounces, increasing to 2% on production in excess of 1,000,000 ounces.
Geology
Wildcat lies in the Seven Troughs Range which is underlain by Triassic and Jurassic sedimentary rocks and has been intruded by Cretaceous granodiorite. Volcanic domes and plugs of rhyolite, quartz latite, trachyte, and andesite have been emplaced by Tertiary volcanism. Tertiary flows of pyroclastic debris, and vitrophyres of rhyolite, quartz latite, trachyte, and andesite composition blanket much of the area. The property contains structurally controlled epithermal gold and silver mineralization identified in four areas: Hero/Tag, Main, Northeast and Knob 32. The four areas have generally similar geology and mineralization with precious metals mineralization spatially associated with the contact between granodiorite and overlying tuff. Gold mineralization occurs with low-temperature silica, chalcedony and pyrite. The Main, Northeast, and Knob 32 deposits appear to be part of the Hero/Tag deposit, though structurally displaced.
The principal low-grade zone that essentially encompassed all the mineralization is tabular and dips gently to the southeast. There appear to be two main styles of mineralization based on mapping, sampling, and statistics. There is a broad, low-grade zone surrounding higher-grade material. The principal host is the tuff in which the low-grade precious metal mineralization is represented by pervasive and intense silicification. The underlying granodiorite also contains a low-grade disseminated style of mineralization with higher grade silicified breccias occurring generally as stockwork within it. Generally, the granodiorite has higher grade and is not silicified. Any silicification is restricted to adjacent veins and veinlets, occasionally being discrete veins as were exploited historically, but also resulting in a large-tonnage stockwork. All of the tuff was altered by epithermal solutions; however, much of the granodiorite is unaltered. High-grade material includes multi-episodic chalcedonic silica veins and breccias.
A third-party technical study was completed for Vista in November 2003 and was updated in August 2006. Using data from one underground channel sample, 245 reverse circulation drill holes and 11 diamond drill holes totaling 95,466 feet, gold mineralized material above a cut-off grade of 0.34 grams of gold per tonne was estimated at 35 million tonnes grading 0.62 grams of gold per tonne and 5.49 grams of silver per tonne.
Pony Creek/Elliot Dome Property
The Pony Creek/Elliot Dome Property is located in the Larrabee mining district of Elko County, Nevada, in the southern half of the Carlin Trend, 28 miles southeast of the town of Carlin and 19 miles south of Newmont Gold Company’s Rain Mine. The property is accessed by traveling south from Carlin along State Highway 278 (a paved road), and then west on the Pony Creek Road.
The Pony Creek/Elliot Dome Property consists of 895 unpatented lode mining claims (approximately 17,900 acres). The property is located across the crest of the southern part of the Pinyon Range at elevations ranging from 6,600 feet to about 8,000 feet. Access to the property from the west is by traveling the Indian Pony road off State Highway 278, or from the east via the Red Rock Ranch road off a junction with State highway 228.
The exploration agreement previously in effect with Mill City was terminated in 2009. Allied Nevada is in the process of regaining full title to the property. Pursuant to the agreement previously in effect, Mill City owned a 100% interest in the property and was to pay an NSR of 3%. Escalating annual property payments would have to be made to Allied Nevada and Mill City had the option
to purchase 1.0% of the 3.0% NSR for a total of $1 million. Mill City was to pay annual rentals to the BLM of $125 per claim on or before September 1 of each year and appropriate county filing fees to the Elko County Recorder on or before November 1 of each year. Allied Nevada, being the holder of a royalty on the claims, held contractual rights that in certain circumstances would require the record owner to transfer ownership of the claims to Allied Nevada.
Prior to commencement of any surface disturbance, permits must be obtained from the BLM which permits exploration activities and a reclamation bond must also be posted.
Newmont Exploration Ltd. (“Newmont Exploration”) conducted regional exploration programs in search of additional gold deposits along the Carlin trend. In 1980 a stream-sediment sampling program identified anomalous gold and arsenic associated with an altered rhyolite body at what is now the Pony Creek Property. Newmont located 100 claims in 1980 to cover the prospect and located 80 more claims in 1982 to cover additional ground. Newmont began drilling in 1981 and conducted drill programs through 1985. Newmont conducted additional drilling campaigns in 1987 and 1989 with limited success. An option was acquired by Westmont Mining, Inc. in 1990, and in April of 1993 Quest International Management Services, Inc. (formerly Ramrod Gold, Inc.) acquired Westmont. Quest then joint ventured the property with Uranerz U.S.A., Inc. in 1994. Uranerz drilled a total of 15 holes in 1994-1995 before terminating the JV in 1995. In 1997 Quest purchased Newmont’s remaining interest in the property and signed a JV agreement with Barrick. Four holes were drilled by Barrick before they terminated the agreement in 1998. In 1999, Quest International Resources was acquired by Standard Mining Co. and it abandoned the Pony Creek property. Mr. Pescio acquired Pony Creek by staking claims in the fall of 1999. Homestake optioned the property shortly afterward. A year later, after drilling 5 reverse circulation drill holes, Homestake terminated their agreement with Mr. Pescio. Nevada Contact Inc. optioned the property from the Pescios in 2001 and drilled 8 holes before terminating the agreement in early 2003. In July 2003, Mill City optioned the property from the Pescios. The Mill City agreement was terminated in 2009.
Geology
Most of the property is comprised of dry, sagebrush- and grass-covered hills with a few juniper and pinyon pines. The climate is favorable for year-round mining and exploration may be done from May through November.
Power for a modern mill can be brought in from the vicinity of Elko, but ranch power is available only a few miles away. Water is not available on the surface, but was encountered in most of the reverse circulation drill holes. Water may also be present in sufficient quantities in the nearby valleys to the east and west. The claims carry with them the surface rights for mining. Although the area is hilly, sufficient flat areas are present in the property area for potential processing plant sites, tailings storage areas, waste disposal areas and leach pads.
The Pony Creek property lies along the axis of a regional Mesozoic anticline that parallels the crest of the Pinyon Range. The project area is within a zone of convergence of two major structural trends which are the boundaries of a north-south series of grabens and half grabens collectively referred to as the Pinyon Graben. A series of Tertiary felsic intrusives have been emplaced at various points along this structural zone.
The lithologies of the region include the allochthonous, eugeoclinal, siliceous western assemblage, the autochthonous, miogeoclinal, eastern carbonate assemblage and the mixed overlap assemblage. The Late Devonian Early Mississippian Roberts Mountain Thrust and the post Pinyon Anticline, Mesozoic thrust faults have moved the western assemblage and a significant portion of the overlap series over the eastern facies. Other important stratigraphic units of the region are Mississippian through Pennsylvanian clastics of the overlap assemblage which overlie both autochthonous and allochthonous units of the Roberts Mountains Thrust. Younger Late Pennsylvanian to Early Permian clastics disconformably overlie the overlap assemblage.
In the Pinyon Range, high-angle northeast and northwest trending faults and north trending faults, all with oblique displacement, and a younger set of east trending normal faults, are important elements in the structural framework of the region. A Tertiary-age wrench faulting event, characterized by strike-slip faulting and intrusion of felsic rocks into graben faults, probably contributed to the emplacement of gold deposits into the Pinyon Graben.
Gold mineralization in the Bowl area is related to felsite breccias. The porphyritic phase consists of a series of rocks from feldspar porphyry to quartz porphyry and ranges in color from white to medium gray. The fragmental unit contains up to 5% of 1 to 2 mm diameter rounded and embayed quartz phenocrysts and feldspar phenocrysts in a white to light gray, fine-grained, ash-rich, clastic matrix. The dark colored felsite is very similar to the feldspar porphyry except that the aphanitic felsite is often nearly black. Porphyritic felsite appears to be interbedded with the fragmental felsite in gently dipping tabular masses up to 100 thick. In the Pot Holes area a lens of fragmental felsite approximately 60 feet thick intersects the low-angle fault that is at the base of the Robinson Thrust plate. The felsite breccias of the Bowl area may be fault breccia to explosion breccias. The breccia fragments are of variable lithology, reportedly including sediment fragments. The matrix, which is generally altered, consists of fragmental felsite and is termed a “sandy” rhyolite. The breccias are mineralized in the Bowl area and possibly are important hosts in other parts of the property.
Alteration within the rhyolite intrusive includes quartz-sericite-pyrite (Qsp) associated with north and northeast trending shears. The shear zones are fragmental and brecciated and contain very fine-grained quartz, sericite and pyrite/goethite, both as disseminations and on fractures. Away from the shear zones the rhyolite gradually becomes fresher, grading outward from relict feldspar ghosts into porphyritic rhyolite. In the center of the intrusive along the east flank of Rhyolite Hill, as well as in some other
areas, the intrusive has a granular texture and feldspars have been altered, leaving open clay-filled vugs. The sanded rhyolite consists of medium-grained rounded clasts of glassy rhyolite breccia occurring near the margins and at the base of the intrusive, and locally as narrow stockwork zones in the intrusive. The distribution and texture of the sanded rhyolite suggest that the unit formed in vitric chill margins and apparently was partially fluidized by subsequent hydrothermal activity. Sediments along the margins of the intrusive and immediately beneath the rhyolite have been silicified, decalcified and sulfidized and, in and around the mineralized cells, have been extensively oxidized (hypogene oxidation). Sediments also occur as xenoliths throughout the rhyolite and can be observed in outcrop and in subsurface. The margins of the xenoliths are usually partially absorbed and most contacts are gradational.
Early-Stage Exploration Properties
In general, these properties either do not have sufficient work completed to identify and report reserves or other mineralized material or we do not have a significant controlling interest or joint venture on the property.
Certain of these exploration properties have been optioned and leased to other exploration companies in return for production royalties averaging approximately 3.0% advance minimum royalties and, on some of the properties, work commitments. For the properties under lease, the lessee is typically responsible for making the land payments including the BLM fees and county property tax payments.
BLM filing fees and county property tax payments were paid for approximately 7,600 unpatented mining claims held by Allied Nevada.
We will pursue strategic options for the exploration properties that could include joint ventures, royalty agreements, or the sale or release of the mineral property.
Item 3.