Item 2. Properties
We classify our mineral properties into three categories: “Operating Properties”, “Advanced Exploration Properties”, and “Other Exploration Properties”. Operating Properties are properties on which the Company operates a producing mine. The Hycroft Mine, as described below, is our Operating Property. Advanced Exploration Properties are properties where we retain a significant controlling interest or joint venture and there has been sufficient drilling and analysis completed to identify and report reserves or other mineralized material. Other Exploration Properties are those for which insufficient drilling and geologic investigations have been completed to define mineralized materials. Please see below for information about our Operating Properties, Advanced Exploration Properties, and Other Exploration Properties.
Other than the Hycroft Mine, we cannot be certain that any mineral deposits will be discovered in sufficient quantities and grade to justify commercial operations. Whether a mineral deposit will be commercially viable depends on a number of factors, including the particular attributes of the deposit; metal prices, which are highly cyclical; the cost to extract and process the mineralized material; and government regulations and permitting requirements. We may be unable to upgrade our mineralized material to proven and probable reserves in sufficient quantities to justify commercial operations and we may not be able to raise sufficient capital to develop our properties. Estimates of reserves and mineralization herein are subject to the effect of changes in metal prices, and to the risks inherent in mining and processing operations.
In addition, Allied Nevada has seven geothermal leases that were entered into during 2009 from the BLM. These leases occur in proximity to, or in some cases overlap with, existing Allied Nevada mineral holdings, and were obtained through competitive bidding.
Operating Properties
Hycroft Mine
We currently have one Operating Property, the Hycroft Mine, which we also refer to as “Hycroft” in this document. This mine and related facilities are located 50 miles west of Winnemucca, Nevada. Winnemucca, a city with a population of 8,500, is a commercial community on Interstate 80, 164 miles northeast of Reno. The town is served by a transcontinental railroad and has a municipal airport. Access to the Hycroft Mine from Winnemucca is by means of State Road No. 49 (Jungo Road), a good-quality, unpaved road and a short access road to the main entrance of the mine. Well-maintained mine and exploration roads provide access throughout the property. Access is also possible from Imlay, Gerlach, and Lovelock by unpaved roads intersecting Interstate 80 and Nevada State Route 447. The majority of our employees live in the Winnemucca area.
The mine is situated east of the Black Rock Desert on the western flank of the Kamma Mountains between Winnemucca and Gerlach. There are no streams, rivers, or major lakes in the general area. Elevations in the mine area range between 4,500 and 5,500 ft above sea level.
The Company holds 22 patented and 2,893 unpatented mining claims that constitute our Hycroft Mine Operating Property. The total acreage covered by unpatented claims is approximately 59,595 acres with an additional 1,794 acres related to the patented claims. The details of these claims and the holding requirements are discussed in greater detail in the geology and ore reserve section that follows.
The climate of the region is arid, with precipitation averaging 7.6 inches per year. Temperatures during the summer range from daily low temperatures (“lows”) of 50°F to daily high temperatures (“highs”) of greater than 90°F and winter temperatures range from lows of 20°F to highs of greater than 40°F. There is strong surface heating during the day and rapid nighttime cooling because of the dry air. This results in wide ranges in daily temperatures.
The Hycroft Mine consists of multiple open pit mines, associated waste dumps and two heap leach pads. The Hycroft Mine was formally known as the Crofoot Lewis open pit mine. Mining began in the area in 1983 with a small heap leaching operation known as the Lewis mine. Lewis mine production was followed by production from the Crofoot property in the Bay, South Central, Boneyard, Gap and Cut 4 pits along the Central fault, and finally the north end of the Brimstone pit and continued until it was placed on a care and maintenance program in December 1998 due to low gold prices. During this first operating period the mine produced over one million ounces of gold and two and one-half million ounces of silver. Gold production from the leaching and rinsing of the heap leach pads, continued in 2000 and 2001. In 2002, 2003, 2004 and 2005, the amount of gold recovered was not material.
The Lewis mine was acquired by Vista in early 1987 from F.W. Lewis, Inc. and the Crofoot mine was acquired by Vista in April 1988. The leasehold interest in the Lewis property along with gold and silver net smelter returns (“NSRs”) was purchased from F.W. Lewis, Inc. by Vista on December 13, 2005 in consideration of the payment of $5.1 million. The Crofoot property was originally held under two leases and is now owned by Allied Nevada subject to a 4% net profits interest retained by the former owners. The lease agreements include for the payment of advance royalty payments of $120,000 in any year where mining occurs on the Crofoot claims and additional payments of $120,000 in any year that Hycroft Mines over five million tons of ore on the Crofoot claims. All advance royalty payments are credited against the future payments under the 4% net profits royalty. The total lease payments under the Crofoot lease claims are subject to a maximum of $7.6 million in royalty payments of which the Company has paid approximately $1.1 million through December 31, 2011.
At December 31, 2011, the book cost of the Hycroft property totaled $3.5 million and its associated plant and equipment totaled $169.3 million.
The site receives electrical power provided by NV Energy from the northwestern Nevada power grid. The Hycroft Mine currently has water rights, which are adequate to process the planned oxide heap leach ore.
2011 Activities
Key operating statistics for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010 are as follows:
In 2011, Hycroft successfully completed its third full year of operations. The mine moved 34 million tons of material, including 16.6 million tons of ore placed on the leach pad at average grades of 0.013 opt gold and 0.34 opt silver. The Company sold 88,191 ounces of gold and 372,000 ounces of silver in 2011.
The major accomplishments in 2011 were as follows:
•
Completed more than two full years with no lost time accidents and no significant environmental issues at Hycroft.
•
Announced two SEC Industry Guide 7 compliant updated mineralized material estimates for Hycroft in March and August, 2011. The mineralized material estimate announced in October 2011 indicated a significant increase in Proven and Probable Reserves to 10.2 million ounces of gold and 388.6 million ounces of silver.
•
Completed the Hycroft milling feasibility study that indicated expanded mining and processing facilities could support annual production of 616,800 ounces of gold and 25.9 million ounces of silver from 2015-2024. The Board of Directors approved the capital spending to complete detailed engineering and ordering of long lead time items in connection with this expansion project.
•
Continued to implement the heap leach expansion with the addition of four 320-ton haul trucks, two Hitachi EX5500 shovels and one Hitachi EX3500 shovel.
•
Completed a positive study indicating the benefits of accelerating construction of a gyratory crusher for use in the heap leach expansion. The Board of Directors approved the capital spending to complete detailed engineering, ordering of long lead time items, and the construction of this project. It is expected that the crusher will be operational in mid-2013.
•
Completed construction of a new truck shop capable of servicing the larger mining equipment.
•
Expanded the Merrill Crowe processing facility, increasing the processing capacity from 3,500 gallons per minute (“gpm”) to 5,000 gpm. The pumping system was also upgraded to increase the pumping capacity to 8,000 gpm to the leach pads.
•
Completed an additional 3.2 million square foot expansion to the Brimstone leach pad as planned. Began preparing the Lewis leach pad, located beside the Brimstone pad, for a 2.7 million square foot expansion to be completed in the first quarter of 2012.
Hycroft Expansion Plan
The Company is currently expanding Hycroft operations to include increasing the mining rate, improving the metal recovery potential with crushing and ultimately milling processes and adding the potential to process sulfide material. The expansion project is the combination of the following three related projects which have been previously announced:
•
The Company began implementing an accelerated heap leach mine plan in mid-2010 with a goal of increasing the mining rate utilizing a larger capacity mining fleet and upgrading existing oxide processing facilities.
•
In 2011, the Company decided to accelerate construction of the large gyratory crushing unit to be utilized in the heap leach operation.
•
In 2011, the Company completed a positive feasibility study on the Hycroft mill expansion option. Under this project, a milling process will supplement the heap leach operations. The mill will process the higher grade fractions of the oxide mineralization and all of the transitional and sulfide mineralization. The Board has approved the capital expenditures to complete detailed engineering to construct the mill and the ordering of long-lead time items critical to the proposed construction timelines. Upon completion of the detailed engineering, the Board expects to approve the construction of the mill.
The current expansion project from this point forward is best described in the following four related activities:
1. Mine Expansion. The current expansion project requires the Company to increase its mining rate from the 34 million tons of material mined in 2011 to 125 million tons of material by the end of 2014 and ultimately to more than 200 million tons of material once the mill is constructed. This expansion stage involves purchasing larger capacity haul trucks, shovels and production drills along with ancillary mining equipment. By the end of 2011, a significant portion of the larger mobile mining fleet was in operation including two smaller and two larger capacity hydraulic shovels, seven 320-ton haul trucks and additional support equipment.
2. Leach Pad Expansion. While the mill is being built, the increased oxide mineralization mined will be processed on leachpads. To accommodate the oxide ore being milled, the existing leach pad system needs to be expanded. The addition of the gyratory crusher is intended to benefit the ultimate recovery of gold from the leach pads. In 2011, the Merrill Crowe plant was expanded to increase the solution processing capacity from 3,500 gallons per minute to 5,000 gallons per minute. The Brimstone leach pad expansion was completed increasing the pad size to 9.1 million square feet. In addition, preparation of the Lewis leach pad, located directly adjacent to the Brimstone pad, began and is expected to add 3.0 million square feet of leach pad space in early 2012. To date, the primary, secondary and tertiary units have been ordered including a gyratory crusher, cone crushers and screens. It is anticipated that the gyratory crushing plant will become operational mid-2013. The effect of this implementation is intended to increase annual gold production to approximately 300,000 ounces by the end of 2013.
3. Mill Construction. Based on the completed feasibility study, the economics of the project could be increased by constructing a mill to process the higher grade oxide mineralization along with the transitional and sulfide mineralization. The Company is currently completing the detailed engineering and has begun ordering long lead time items critical to the construction schedule. To date, the major long lead components of the grinding circuit (semi-autogenous grinding mills and ball mills) have been ordered and are on schedule to arrive as per the construction timeline.
4. Infrastructure. The future expansion plans require the Company to upgrade the infrastructure at the Hycroft Mine. Major infrastructure items include the upgrade of the power transmission and distribution system to handle the milling demands and the construction of a rail siding.
The initial capital cost estimate for the expansion project is expected to be $1.2 billion. As of February 24, 2012, Allied Nevada had spent or committed $354.9 million, which is 2% below the feasibility estimate for this equipment and represents approximately 30% of the total capital expenditure estimate. All equipment pricing is firm and includes freight and taxes. In the case of the mining equipment, the pricing also includes on-site assembly and commissioning.
Geology
The Hycroft Mine is located on the western flank of the Kamma Mountains. The deposit is hosted in a volcanic eruptive breccia and conglomerates associated with the Tertiary Kamma Mountain volcanics. The volcanics are mainly acidic to intermediate tuffs, flows and coarse volcaniclastic rocks. Fragments of these units dominate the clasts in the eruptive breccia. Volcanic rocks have been block-faulted by dominant north-trending structures, which have affected the distribution of alteration and mineralization. The Central Fault and East Fault control the distribution of mineralization and subsequent oxidation. A post-mineral range-front fault separates the orebody from the adjacent Pleistocene Lahontan Lake sediments in the Black Rock Desert.
The known gold mineralization within the Crofoot and Lewis properties extends for a distance of three miles in a north-south direction by 1.5 miles in an east-west direction. Mineralization extends to a depth of less than 330 feet in the outcropping to near-outcropping portion of the deposit on the northwest side to over 2,500 feet in the Vortex deposit in the east. Not all the mineralization is oxidized and the depth of oxide ore varies considerably over the area of mineralization.
The Hycroft Mine property consists of 22 patented claims that comprise approximately 1,794 acres and 2,893 unpatented claims that comprise approximately 59,595 acres. Combining the patented and unpatented claims, total claims cover approximately 61,389 acres. This claim package was acquired by the Company in a series of transactions:
•
The Crofoot property and approximately 3,500 acres of claims were acquired by Vista in 1988. The Crofoot property, originally held under lease, is owned by Hycroft Resources & Development, Inc. subject to a 4% net profits interest retained by the former owners;
•
The F.W. Lewis property and approximately 8,700 acres of claims were acquired by Vista in early 1987;
•
In 2006, approximately 13,100 acres of additional claims were staked by Vista. These claims were around or contiguous to the original Crofoot and F.W. Lewis Claims;
•
In 2008, we staked approximately 22,700 acres of additional claims contiguous to or around the existing Hycroft claims;
•
In 2009, we staked an additional 79 claims consisting of approximately 1,600 acres contiguous to or around the existing Hycroft land holding; and
•
In 2010, we staked an additional 466 claims and 10,870 acres contiguous to or around the existing Hycroft land holding.
Our Hycroft patented claims occupy private lands and our unpatented claims occupy public lands. The public lands include unpatented mining claims on lands administered by the BLM. These claims are governed by the laws and regulations of the U.S. federal government and the state of Nevada. To maintain the patented claims in good standing, we must pay the annual property tax payments to the county in which the claims are held. To maintain the unpatented claims in good standing, we must file a notice of intent to maintain the claims within the county and pay the annual mineral claim filing fees to the BLM.
Mineral Proven and Probable Ore Reserves
Recoverable proven and probable reserves summarized below and detailed on the following pages have been calculated as of December 31, 2011, in accordance with Industry Guide 7 as required by the Exchange Act. Proven and probable reserves may not be comparable to similar information regarding mineral reserves disclosed in accordance with the guidance of other countries. Proven and probable reserves were determined by the use of mapping, drilling, sampling, assaying and evaluation methods generally applied in the mining industry, as more fully discussed below. The term “reserve,” as used in the reserve data presented here, means that part of a mineral deposit that can be economically and legally extracted or produced at the time of the reserve determination. The term “proven reserves” means reserves for which (1) quantity is computed from dimensions revealed in outcrops, trenches, workings or drill holes; (2) grade and/or quality are computed from the results of detailed sampling; and (3) the sites for inspection, sampling and measurements are spaced so closely and the geologic character is sufficiently defined that size, shape, depth and mineral content of reserves are well established. The term “probable reserves” means reserves for which quantity and grade are computed from information similar to that used for proven reserves but the sites for sampling are farther apart or are otherwise less adequately spaced. The degree of assurance, although lower than that for proven reserves, is high enough to assume continuity between points of observation.
Our reserve estimates are based on the latest available geological and geotechnical studies. We conduct ongoing studies of our ore bodies to optimize economic values and to manage risk. We revise our mine plans and estimates of recoverable proven and probable mineral reserves as required in accordance with the latest available studies. Our estimates of recoverable proven and probable reserves are prepared by and are the responsibility of our employees, and a majority of these estimates are reviewed and verified by independent experts in mining, geology and reserve determination. Estimated recoverable proven and probable reserves at December 31, 2011, were determined using long-term average prices of $800 per ounce for gold and $14 per ounce for silver. The London spot metal prices for the past three years averaged approximately $1,255 per ounce for gold and $23 per ounce for silver.
Below is a summary of the mineral proven and probable ore reserves as of December 31, 2011.
Mine Operations
The mining in 2012 of the Brimstone Pit and Cut-5 Pit will be conducted by open pit methods using 320 and 200-ton haul trucks, hydraulic shovels, high capacity pit viper blast hole drills. Mining in the Brimstone pit has been designed with five mining phases, and the Cut-5 Pit will be mined in two single top-down mining sequences. Our current mine plans are to increase production to an annual mining rate of 75 million tons of material in 2012 and over 80 million tons of material in 2013.
We are currently in the third phase of five phases of mining in the Brimstone Pit and the first phase of mining in the Cut-5 Pit. This phase of mining involves the mining of more ore and less waste, than experienced in previous phases, and it is expected that the strip ratio will be lower than 1:1. The expansion program in progress will deliver more ore to the heap leach pads and we have taken delivery of seven 320-ton haul trucks and four hydraulic shovels to accomplish this expansion program. In 2012, we expect to receive one hydraulic shovel, three pit viper high capacity production drills, and nine 320-ton haul trucks.
For 2012, lower grade ore will be hauled by truck and placed on the Brimstone and Lewis leach pads as run-of-mine material. Higher grade material will be crushed and placed on the Brimstone and Lewis leach pads. The Brimstone pad system is currently comprised of the previously operated Brimstone leach pad and has grown through four expansions between 2008-2011. The Lewis leach pad is a historically operated 3.0 million square foot leach pad that has been dormant since the mine shut down in 1998. The mine began removing old material from the leach pad in 2011 and has been preparing the leach pad for use beginning in the first quarter of 2012. This leach pad system has sufficient capacity to handle our ore placement requirements for 2012. We plan to continually expand this leach pad system to meet production requirements. All ore-grade material placed on the leach pad will be cross-ripped to enhance permeability. A network of solution drip lines will be positioned and the run of mine material will be leached with a cyanide solution for a period of approximately 60 to 90 days before another 30 foot high lift of ore is placed on top of the existing lift. Return solution from the pad containing the precious metals is directed to the pregnant or lean solution pond. Gold will be removed from pregnant solutions using a Carbon in Column (“CIC”) process and at the Brimstone plant using the Merrill-Crowe zinc precipitation process (“Merrill-Crowe process”). The product from the CIC process will be transported to a third party for processing to recover the precious metals from the carbon and produce a doré containing gold and silver. Doré containing gold and silver will be produced at the Hycroft Mine from the Merrill-Crowe process. Low grade pregnant solution directed to the lean pond will be used for “stacking” which encompasses recycling pregnant solution back to the ore pad to increase solution overall metal grades. Based on previous operating experience, 56.6% of the gold and 10% of the silver placed on the pad as run of mine production is expected to be recovered in the plant. Crushing ore is expected to improve the overall average recovery of gold and silver.
During 2012, we expect to increase the annual gold production from the Hycroft Mine by increasing mining rates. An accelerated mine plan, approved by the Company in 2010, will increase the tons mined to over 80 million per year by 2013. The additional ore mined would result in estimated annual gold production in the range of 180,000 to 220,000 ounces in 2012 and 300,000 ounces in 2013. The existing mobile mine equipment fleet and process facilities are currently being expanded to accommodate the increased production.
Hycroft Mine Exploration and Development Drilling
Since the formation of the Company in May 2007, Allied Nevada, as of year-end 2011, has drilled a total of approximately 1,182 holes, for a combined total of 989,500 feet, at the Hycroft Mine. Material from all the holes has been assayed using a fire assay procedure for both gold and silver content by one of three independent laboratories. Upon completion of a drill hole, the hole is surveyed and then plugged. Management of the drill program, sample collection and assay program is being carried out by Allied Nevada. Qualified independent consultants have reviewed all aspects of the exploration program and are expected to conduct regular reviews of the ongoing exploration program. The following currently identified zones are: Albert, Bay, Camel, Central, Boneyard, Brimstone, Foothills, and Vortex.
In 2011, Allied Nevada drilled 287 holes, representing approximately 267,977 feet, with focus on metallurgical drilling at Central, Brimstone, and Vortex, geotechnical drilling at Central and Vortex, and step out drilling at Central and Brimstone. The drilling results have been utilized to update the corresponding engineering models.
Of the 2011 total program, 124 holes were directed at infill, step-out, and metallurgy at Central, 38 holes were directed at step-out and metallurgy at Brimstone, 60 holes at Vortex step-out and metallurgy, 20 holes at dump condemnation, 14 holes at hydrology monitoring, 8 holes at geotechnical design, 6 holes at operational issues, and 17 holes at property wide exploration.
A 120,000 foot development program has been designed for 2012 with a focus on facility condemnation, and core drilling in support of metallurgical and geotechnical studies and the mill expansion. A 13,000 foot exploration program at Oscar is intended to test this area for potential outside the current mine footprint.
The analysis of the current drill results and historical geological information suggests that gold and silver mineralization is hosted along north-south trending zones of approximately 14,000 feet in length. These zones are partially defined laterally by post-mineral faults. The first quarter 2012 drill program will be focused on defining metallurgy and geotechnical at the main zones of Central, Brimstone, and Vortex.
Any expansion of the Hycroft Mine necessary to exploit any additional reserves that may be established through our Hycroft exploration drilling program that are not located within our current mine plan will require us to obtain all necessary permits, approvals and consents of regulatory agencies responsible for the use and development of mines in Nevada.
Advanced Exploration Properties
Advanced Exploration Properties are both those properties where we retain a significant controlling interest or joint venture and where there has been sufficient drilling and analysis completed to identify and report reserves or other mineralized material. Allied Nevada currently has six properties on which mineralized material has been identified: Maverick Springs (a 45% joint venture with Silver Standard), Mountain View, Hasbrouck, Three Hills, Wildcat and Pony Creek/Elliot Dome.
None of these properties currently have proven or probable reserves as defined by Industry Guide 7. We are currently evaluating these properties to determine how to best advance these projects by increasing the identified mineralized materials, improving the quality of these mineralized materials, conducting engineering studies, or advancing the project to a development decision. The Company is currently working on an initial economic evaluation for Hasbrouck.
The following map provides the general location of each of these six properties on which we have identified mineralized material. All of the Company’s properties are within the state of Nevada.
The following table summarizes information we consider important concerning our Advanced Exploration Properties. The reader is directed to the more comprehensive information about these properties following the summary table.
Advanced Exploration Properties
Summary Information
Hasbrouck
The Hasbrouck property is located in southwestern Nevada about 5 miles south-southwest of the town of Tonopah in Esmeralda County, Nevada, adjacent to U.S. Highway 95 and approximately half-way between Reno and Las Vegas. The property is accessed from Tonopah by traveling south along US Highway 95, which transects the claim block. The project is accessed by a gravel road off of U.S. Highway 95 that connects to a network of dirt drill roads that traverse Hasbrouck. The Hasbrouck property receives power from nearby lines that traverse the property.
Mineral tenure consists of 28 patented mining claims and 586 unpatented mining claims covering an area of approximately 12,660 acres within Esmeralda County, Nevada. Seventeen of the patented mining claims and three of the unpatented mining claims are subject to a mineral production royalty of 2% of the NSRs. All patented mining claims and 266 unpatented mining claims are subject to an additional mineral production royalty of 2% of the NSRs. The mining claim group covers all or portions of Sections, 27-29, 32-35 of T02N R42E, Sections 1-5, 9-16, 21-24 of T01N R42E, and Sections 6-7, 18-20 of T01N R43E MDB&M. In 2011, six patented claims were purchased, and 456 claims staked.
The Company commenced drilling activities on Hasbrouck in 2010, and continued drilling until December of 2011, in order to further identify and delineate the gold mineralization previously identified at the property. The Company intends to publish an updated estimate of mineralized material and an initial economic evaluation in 2012 for Hasbrouck.
Exploration activities at Hasbrouck Mountain in 2011 included drilling 29,454 feet in forty-three diamond drill core holes (“core holes” or “core drilling”), and 63,925 feet in seventy-two reverse circulation rotary holes for a total of 93,379 feet. An additional 19 reverse circulation rotary holes totaling 31,940 feet were drilled south of the Hasbrouck Mountain within the larger Hasbrouck claim block. In 2011, 456 additional claims were located and acquired.
On May 23, 2003, Vista executed a purchase agreement with Newmont Capital, which includes both the Hasbrouck property and the Three Hills property, which lies approximately 4.5 miles to the north-northwest. The agreement included the right to acquire 51% of Hasbrouck and Three Hills properties upon an expenditure of $1.0 million. Allied completed the threshold expenditure during the first half of 2010. Upon notice by Allied in August 2010, Newmont Capital has elected to not participate in a joint venture on the
properties. As a result, Allied Nevada retained 100% ownership in these properties, subject to a 2% NSR in each project together with the right to a $500,000 cash payment at the start of commercial production at either project and a further $500,000 cash payment if, after the start of commercial production, the gold price averages $400 per ounce or more for any three-month period. An additional 2.0% NSR on certain Hasbrouck claims is held by other parties.
Geology
The property is located on Hasbrouck Mountain, which is thought to lie along the western edge of a caldera. The mountain is underlain by gently dipping ash-flow, air-fall and waterlain tuffs and volcaniclastic sediments of the Miocene Siebert Formation. Several occurrences of chalcedonic sinter deposits occur near the summit of the mountain. Gold and silver mineralization in the Hasbrouck deposit appears to have formed relatively close to the paleo-surface in an epithermal, hot spring environment. The mineralization is concentrated in the Siebert Formation, in units stratigraphically below the chalcedonic sinter deposits that are exposed near the top of Hasbrouck.
Multiple zones of higher grade mineralization are presently defined. The Saddle Zone consists of a structurally and stratigraphically controlled higher grade mineral body, with the highest grade mineralization hosted in hydrothermal breccia bodies. The Crossroads Zone is east of and adjacent to the Saddle Zone, consisting of higher than average grade disseminated mineralization interspersed with higher grade veins. The Franco Zone is adjacent to the east with the Crossroads Zone, and hosts mineralization similar to Crossroads, with higher grade mineralization in veins. Mineralization is continuous between the three zones. These zones are surrounded by lower grade mineralized material.
A third-party technical study was completed for Vista in August 2003 and was updated in August 2006. The Hasbrouck study was developed using data from 54,339 feet of drilling, principally comprised of 105 reverse circulation holes totaling 44,400 feet and 22 rotary drill holes totaling 8,980 feet. The drilling database was compiled from work performed by FMC Gold Co., Cordex Syndicate and Franco Nevada Inc. between 1974 and 1988.
Exploration activities at the main Hasbrouck project in 2011 include drilling 29,454 feet in forty-four diamond core holes, and 63,925 feet in seventy-two reverse circulation rotary holes for a total of 93,379 feet. An additional nineteen reverse circulation rotary holes totaling 31,940 feet were drilled south of the Mountain within the Hasbrouck claim block. The project was mapped in detail, a geologic model created, and metallurgical work in the form of column, bottle roll, and gravity separation tests were completed. Geotechnical and rock density data were collected from core holes. Nine CSAMT resistivity (controlled source audio magneto-telluric method) geophysical lines totaling 11.5 line kilometers were run over Hasbrouck Mountain. On the southern portion of the Hasbrouck claim block, a gravity survey was completed. This survey was combined with the two previous surveys into a master gravity plot, and structural interpretations derived from the surveys were incorporated into the exploration and mapping efforts.
Three Hills
Three Hills is located in southwestern Nevada about 1 mile west of the town of Tonopah in Esmeralda County, Nevada, and about 4.5 miles northwest of the Hasbrouck property described above. Access to the site is via county-maintained gravel roads from the northwest end of town. Three Hills consists of 15 unpatented lode claims totaling approximately 300 acres.
On May 23, 2003, Vista executed a purchase agreement with Newmont Capital, which included both the Hasbrouck property and the Three Hills property. The terms of this agreement are detailed under the Hasbrouck description above. Newmont Capital did not exercise their right to acquire 51% of the properties in August of 2010.
Geology
Three Hills is located in the Walker Lane structural domain of the Basin and Range physiographic province. It is in an area of structural disruption resulting from a series of orogenic events occurring in Paleozoic, Mesozoic and Cenozoic times. Basin and Range high-angle normal faults control the mineralization at Three Hills, where they cut the Siebert Formation. Gold mineralization occurs in a zone of pervasive silicification and in the Siebert Formation and the upper 10 to 30 feet of the Fraction Tuff. The contact between these two units contains consistently higher grades of gold and is more commonly argillized than silicified.
A third-party technical study was completed for Vista in August 2003 and was updated in August 2006. The Three Hills study included data from 62,874 feet of drilling, comprised of 183 reverse circulation holes totaling 54,657 feet, 45 air-track and rotary holes totaling 6,320 feet and 9 diamond drill holes totaling 1,897 feet. The drilling was completed by Echo Bay Mines Ltd., Eastfield Resources, Saga Exploration and Cordex Syndicate between 1974 and 1996.
Maverick Springs
The Maverick Springs project is located in northeast Nevada at the southeast end of the Carlin Trend belt of gold-silver mineralization, approximately half-way between Elko and Ely, Nevada. A gravel road provides immediate access to the property from the Ruby Valley road. The property consists of 246 claims with a total area of approximately 4,920 acres.
On October 7, 2002, Vista completed the acquisition of a 100% interest in the Maverick Springs gold and silver project from Newmont Mining Corporation (“Newmont”) and the Mountain View gold project (described below) from Newmont’s wholly-owned
subsidiary Newmont Capital Limited (“Newmont Capital”). Maverick Springs is subject to a lease agreement, between Newmont and Artemis Exploration Company. The lease was entered into on October 1, 2001, and the key terms included various payments over time and a royalty based on a sliding scale ranging from 2% to 6%, depending on gold and silver prices at the time of production.
On June 9, 2003, Vista entered into an agreement granting Silver Standard Resources Inc. (“Silver Standard” or “SSRI”) an option to acquire its interest in the silver mineralized material hosted in the Maverick Springs project. Allied Nevada, as successor to Vista, retained its 100% interest in the gold mineralized material. The agreement with SSRI is subject to the terms of the Newmont purchase agreement. Under the agreement, Silver Standard completed its $1.5 million payment obligation in 2005. Accordingly, all costs incurred for Maverick Springs are now being shared by the two corporations as stated below. Silver Standard and Vista formed a committee to jointly manage exploration of the Maverick Springs project. Allied Nevada, as successor to Vista, has a 45% vote on the committee, and Silver Standard is the operator and has a 55% vote. Future costs will be shared by Silver Standard and Allied Nevada on the same ratio as established for operation of the management committee: Allied Nevada 45% / Silver Standard 55%, subject to standard dilution provisions.
Prior operators have conducted drilling on the Maverick Springs project. In November 2002, Vista completed a 7-hole reverse circulation drill program totaling 7,020 feet on the Maverick Springs project. The program consisted of seven vertical reverse circulation holes, stepped out 500 feet to 2,200 feet from previously identified mineralization. All seven holes encountered flat-lying mineralization, predominantly oxidized to depths of up to 900 feet. The program outlined continuous mineralization in a 2,200-foot by 1,200-foot area, immediately adjacent to known gold-silver mineralization. With additional in-fill drilling, this newly outlined mineralization has the potential to significantly increase the mineralized material.
In October 2003, Vista completed a 16-hole reverse circulation program totaling 14,015 feet, in October 2004, Vista completed a 13-hole reverse circulation program totaling 13,015 feet and in August 2006, Vista completed a 18-hole reverse circulation drill program totaling approximately 16,000 feet. In the 4th quarter of 2008, Silver Standard completed a 5-hole program totaling 5,305 feet. These results indicate the potential for bulk-mineable gold-silver mineralization.
Geology
Maverick Springs can be classified as a Carlin-type or sediment/carbonate hosted disseminated silver-gold deposit. Sediment hosted deposits are common within northern Nevada, although the systems are usually gold dominated with relatively minor amounts of silver. Silver and gold mineralization at Maverick Springs has been interpreted as a roughly antiformal or arch-shaped zone with an axis that plunges shallowly to the south and seems to flatten to horizontal over the northern half of the deposit. The limbs of the arch dip shallowly to moderately at 10-30° to the east and west. Overall, the mineralized zone is elongated in the north-south direction with a length of over 6,000 feet, a width of up to 3,000 feet, and a thickness of commonly 100-300 feet.
Alteration consists of pervasive decalcification, weak to intense silicification and weak alunitic argillization. Massive jasperoid is common in surface exposures and in drill core. Oxidation has affected all sulfides on surface and is pervasive to a depth of at least 400 feet, intermittent to 900 feet, and generally absent below 1,000 feet.
Mountain View
The Mountain View property is located in northwest Nevada near the Blackrock Desert. The property is approximately 15 miles northwest of Gerlach, Nevada in Washoe County; it straddles the boundary between the Squaw Valley and Banjo topographic quadrangles. The property is accessed from Gerlach by traveling approximately 14 miles along Nevada State Highway 447, a paved road, and then approximately one mile east along an unimproved dirt road. On the property, drill roads provide good access to most areas. The property currently consists of 128 claims with a total area of approximately 2,560 acres.
Vista’s acquisition of the Mountain View property was completed along with that of the Maverick Springs property, as described above. To acquire the interest in the Mountain View property, Vista paid cash of $50,000 and issued 56,497 equity units, each unit comprised of one Vista share and a two-year Vista warrant, to Newmont Capital, and Newmont Capital retained a 1.5% NSR. Newmont Capital’s interest in the Mountain View property is subject to an underlying lease and two other royalty arrangements, the principal terms of which are: the underlying lease grants a 50% interest to Newmont in all claims, with a few exceptions where a 5% interest is granted; and the lessee may purchase the remaining interest in the claims for $250,000 at any time. The lessee is obligated to purchase the remaining 50% for $250,000 on achieving commercial production. Also, the lessee shall pay a 1% NSR during production, with advance minimum payments of $25,000 per year. Advanced royalties are deductible from the NSRs royalty and cease upon purchase of the remaining interest of the underlying lease. A 1% NSR also applies to certain other claims.
Previous operators have conducted drilling on the Mountain View property. Vista completed a five-hole reverse circulation program totaling 4,330 feet in November 2003. The results indicate the presence of a new zone of bulk mineralization approximately 200 feet east of the known core of mineralization. Vista completed a five-hole reverse circulation program totaling 4,070 feet in 2004, and the results indicate potential bulk-mineable gold mineralization and the down-dip extension of higher-grade gold mineralization.
Geology
The dominant rock types in the area are Miocene volcanics and interbedded volcaniclastic sediments. Minor greenschist facies Permo-Triassic strata occur to the northeast and a large body of granodiorite makes up the bulk of the Granite Range to the east and south.
The Miocene lithologies consist of mafic tuffs, rhyolite tuffs and flows, volcaniclastic sediments and basalts. These units are separated from the Granite Range to the east by a range front normal fault that dips steeply to the southwest. The Severance deposit is hosted by a unit known as the Severance rhyolite that is sandwiched between the range front fault to the northeast and older Tertiary tuffs, flows and volcaniclastic sediments to the southwest.
Structure on the property is dominated by northwest and northeast trending faults. Major fault offsets occur along the range-front fault system and these are offset by the northeast trending structures. Recent alluvium is offset by the range front faults.
Wildcat
Wildcat is located about 35 miles northwest of Lovelock and 26 miles south of the Hycroft Mine in Pershing County, Nevada. The property is accessed, from Lovelock, by traveling 15 miles along Nevada State Route 399, a paved road, and then approximately 16 miles along a well-maintained gravel road through Sage Valley. The east property boundary is approximately 2.5 miles west of the road through Sage Valley, along a gravel road. Four-wheel drive roads traverse the property. The project consists of 284 unpatented claims and 4 patented claims, comprising approximately 5,900 acres.
During September and October 2003, Vista concluded due diligence reviews and executed formal purchase agreements to acquire the Wildcat project and the associated exploration data in three separate transactions. On September 23, 2003, Vista purchased 71 unpatented mining claims from Monex Exploration. On commencement of commercial production, Allied Nevada will be required to make a one-time production payment in the amount of $500,000. Thirteen of the claims are subject to an underlying 0.4% NSR, and the remaining 58 claims are subject to an underlying 1% NSR.
On October 12, 2003, Vista purchased a 100% interest in the Vernal unpatented mining claim from David C. Mough and Jody Ahlquist Mough.
On October 28, 2003, Vista purchased four patented mining claims and exploration data from Sagebrush Exploration, Inc. The four patented claims are subject to an underlying net smelter returns royalty of 1% for gold production between 500,000 and 1,000,000 ounces, increasing to 2% on production in excess of 1,000,000 ounces.
Geology
Wildcat lies in the Seven Troughs Range, which is underlain by Triassic and Jurassic sedimentary rocks and has been intruded by Cretaceous granodiorite. Volcanic domes and plugs of rhyolite, quartz latite, trachyte, and andesite have been emplaced by Tertiary volcanism. Post mineral Tertiary flows of pyroclastic debris, and vitrophyres of rhyolite, quartz latite, trachyte, and andesite composition blanket much of the area.
The property contains at least two aerially extensive breccia bodies located at the intersection of through-going fault zones. Four areas; Hero/Tag, Main, Northeast, and Knob 32 are located within the southern breccia body and contain the majority of drilling and all of the known mineralized material. These four areas are geologically similar with mineralization straddling the contact between granodiorite and overlying tuff within the breccia body. Mineralization hosted in the tuff generally tends to be lower grade disseminated style of mineralization represented by pervasive and intense silicification. The underlying granodiorite also contains low-grade disseminated style of mineralization with areas of higher-grade associated with quartz vein stockwork. Peripheral to the breccia bodies, discrete mineralized banded veins in the granodiorite were exploited by historical mining and were generally not targeted by drilling. Deeper roots to the mineralized breccia bodies have not been explored. A second aerially extensive mineralized breccia body is located 0.9 miles to the northwest in the Cross Roads area and is predominantly defined by surface samples only.
Permits have been received from the Bureau of Land Management and State of Nevada to conduct an initial drill program in 2011. The Company anticipates submitting for additional permits for drill activities in 2012. Drilling will focus on initial testing of the Cross Roads breccia body, banded veins proximal to the southern breccia body, and potential roots to the southern breccia body.
Pony Creek/Elliot Dome Property
The Pony Creek/Elliot Dome Property is located in the Larrabee mining district of Elko County, Nevada, in the southern half of the Carlin Trend, 28 miles southeast of the town of Carlin and 19 miles south of Newmont Gold Company’s Rain Mine. The property is accessed by traveling south from Carlin along State Highway 278 (a paved road), and then west on the Pony Creek Road.
The Pony Creek/Elliot Dome Property consists of 895 unpatented lode mining claims (approximately 17,900 acres). The property is located across the crest of the southern part of the Pinyon Range at elevations ranging from 6,600 feet to about 8,000 feet. Access to the property from the west is by traveling the Indian Pony road off State Highway 278, or from the east via the Red Rock Ranch road off a junction with State highway 228.
The exploration agreement previously in effect with Mill City was terminated in 2009 and Allied Nevada has regained full title to the property.
Prior to commencement of any surface disturbance, permits must be obtained from the BLM which permits exploration activities and a reclamation bond must also be posted.
Newmont Exploration Ltd. (“Newmont Exploration”) conducted regional exploration programs in search of additional gold deposits along the Carlin trend. In 1980 a stream-sediment sampling program identified anomalous gold and arsenic associated with an altered rhyolite body at what is now the Pony Creek Property. Newmont located 100 claims in 1980 to cover the prospect and located 80 more claims in 1982 to cover additional ground. Newmont began drilling in 1981 and conducted drill programs through 1985. Newmont conducted additional drilling campaigns in 1987 and 1989 with limited success. An option was acquired by Westmont Mining, Inc. in 1990, and in April of 1993 Quest International Management Services, Inc. (formerly Ramrod Gold, Inc.) acquired Westmont. Quest then joint ventured the property with Uranerz U.S.A., Inc. in 1994. Uranerz drilled a total of 15 holes in 1994-1995 before terminating the JV in 1995. In 1997 Quest purchased Newmont’s remaining interest in the property and signed a JV agreement with Barrick. Four holes were drilled by Barrick before they terminated the agreement in 1998. In 1999, Quest International Resources was acquired by Standard Mining Co. and it abandoned the Pony Creek property. Mr. Carl Pescio acquired Pony Creek by staking claims in the fall of 1999. Homestake optioned the property shortly afterward. A year later, after drilling 5 reverse circulation drill holes, Homestake terminated their agreement with Mr. Pescio. Nevada Contact Inc. optioned the property from the Pescios in 2001 and drilled 8 holes before terminating the agreement in early 2003. In July 2003, Mill City optioned the property from the Pescios. The Mill City agreement was terminated in 2009.
Geology
Most of the property is comprised of dry, sagebrush-covered and grass-covered hills with a few juniper and pinyon pines. The climate is favorable for year-round mining and exploration may be done from May through November.
The Pony Creek property lies along the axis of a regional Mesozoic anticline that parallels the crest of the Pinyon Range. The lithologies of the region include the eastern carbonate assemblage and the mixed overlap assemblage. The Late Devonian Early Mississippian Roberts Mountain Thrust and the post Pinyon Anticline, Mesozoic thrust faults have moved the western assemblage and a significant portion of the overlap series over the eastern facies. High-angle northeast and northwest trending faults and north trending faults, all with oblique displacement, and a younger set of east trending normal faults, are important elements in the structural framework of the region. Gold mineralization in the Bowl area is related to felsite breccias. In the Pot Holes area, a lens of fragmental felsite approximately 60 feet thick intersects the low-angle fault that is at the base of the Robinson Thrust plate. The felsite breccias of the Bowl area may be fault breccia to explosion breccias. Alteration within the intrusive includes quartz-sericite-pyrite (Qsp) associated with north and northeast trending shears.
Other Exploration Properties
In general, other exploration properties consist of those properties for which insufficient drilling and geologic investigations have been completed to define mineralized materials. Other Exploration Properties may include properties that the Company does not have a significant controlling interest or joint venture on. Allied Nevada has approximately 100 Other Exploration Properties.
Certain of these exploration properties have been optioned and leased to other exploration companies in return for production royalties averaging approximately 3.0% advance minimum royalties and, on some of the properties, work commitments. For the properties under lease, the lessee is typically responsible for making the land payments including the BLM fees and county property tax payments. BLM filing fees and county property tax payments were paid for approximately 7,600 unpatented mining claims held by Allied Nevada.
During 2011, the Company completed 7 drill holes, totaling approximately 7,800 feet, at the Illipah Project.
We will pursue strategic options for the exploration properties that could include development through exploration programs, joint ventures, royalty agreements, or the sale or release of the mineral property.
Item 3.