Item 2. Properties
We classify our mineral properties into two categories: “Operating Properties” and “Other Exploration Properties”. Operating Properties are properties on which the Company operates a producing mine. We currently have one Operating Property, namely the Hycroft Open Pit Mine as discussed below. Please see below for information about our Operating Properties and Exploration Properties.
Other than the Hycroft Open Pit Mine, we cannot be certain that any mineral deposits will be discovered in sufficient quantities and grade to justify commercial operations. Whether a mineral deposit will be commercially
viable depends on a number of factors, including the particular attributes of the deposit; metal prices, which are highly cyclical; the cost to extract and process the mineralized material; and government regulations and permitting requirements. We may be unable to upgrade our mineralized material to proven and probable reserves in sufficient quantities to justify commercial operations and we may not be able to raise sufficient capital to develop our properties. Estimates of reserves and mineralization herein are subject to the effect of changes in metal prices, and to the risks inherent in mining and processing operations.
Operating Properties
Technical Report
The information that follows relating to the Hycroft Open Pit Mine (other than the information under the heading “Hycroft Exploration Drilling Program”) is derived from, and in some instances is an extract from, the technical report dated October 17, 2008 (the “Hycroft Technical Report”) authored by Scott Wilson, C.P.G. of Scott E. Wilson Consulting, Inc. (“Wilson Consulting”) in respect of the Hycroft Mine and its reactivation, as well as from our current assumptions and life of mine plan. At the time of the preparation of the Hycroft Technical Report, Mr. Wilson was independent of the Company and was a “qualified person”, as that term is defined in NI 43-101.
Portions of the following information are based on assumptions, qualifications and procedures which are not fully described herein. Reference should be made to the full text of the Hycroft Technical Report which has been filed with certain Canadian securities regulatory authorities pursuant to NI 43-101 and is available for review at www.sedar.com.
Hycroft Open Pit Mine
We currently have one Operating Property, the Hycroft Open Pit Mine, which we also refer to as the “Hycroft Mine” in this document. This mine and related facilities are located 54 miles west of Winnemucca, Nevada. Winnemucca (population 15,000) is a commercial community on Interstate 80, 164 miles northeast of Reno, Nevada. The town is served by a transcontinental railroad and has a small airport. Access to the Hycroft Mine from Winnemucca, Nevada is by means of State Road No. 49 (Jungo Road), a good-quality, unpaved road. Access is also possible from Imlay and from Lovelock by unpaved roads intersecting Interstate 80. The majority of our employees live in the Winnemucca area.
The mine is situated on the eastern edge of the Black Rock Desert and on the western flank of the Kamma Mountains between Winnemucca and Gerlach, Nevada. There are no streams, rivers, or major lakes in the general area. Elevations in the mine area range between 4,500 and 5,500 ft above sea level.
The Company holds 26 patented and 2,349 unpatented mining claims that constitute our Hycroft Mine Operating Property. The total acreage covered by these claims is approximately 48,000 acres with approximately 1,600 acres related to the patented claims. The details of these claims and the holding requirements are discussed in greater detail in the geology and ore reserve section that follows.
The climate of the region is arid, with precipitation averaging 7.6 inches per year. Temperatures during the summer range from 50°F to greater than 90°F and winter temperatures range from 20°F to 40°F. There is strong surface heating during the day and rapid nighttime cooling because of the dry air. This, results in wide ranges in daily temperatures.
The Hycroft Mine consists of multiple open pit mines, associated waste dumps and two heap leach pads. The Hycroft Mine was formally known as the Crofoot Lewis open pit mine. Mining began in the area in 1983 with a small heap leaching operation known as the Lewis mine. Lewis mine production was followed by production from the Crofoot property in the Bay, South Central, Boneyard, Gap and Cut 4 pits along the Central fault, and finally the north end of the Brimstone pit and continued until it was placed on a care and maintenance program in December 1998 due to low gold prices.
The Lewis mine was acquired by Vista in early 1987 from F.W. Lewis, Inc. and the Crofoot mine was acquired by Vista in April 1988. The leasehold interest in the Lewis property and a 5% NSR royalty on gold and a 7.5% NSR on silver was purchased from F.W. Lewis, Inc. by Vista on December 13, 2005 in consideration of the payment of $5.1 million. The Crofoot property was originally held under two leases and is now owned by Allied Nevada subject to a 4% net profits interest retained by the former owners. The lease agreements include for the payment of advance royalty payments of $0.1 million in any year where mining occurs on the Crofoot claims. All advance royalty payments are credited against the future payments under the 4% net profits royalty.
The Hycroft Mine produced over one million ounces of gold from the commencement of mining operations in 1987, until the operations were placed on a care and maintenance program, as a result of low gold prices in December of 1998. Gold production from the leaching and rinsing of the heap leach pads, continued in 2000 and 2001. In 2002, 2003, 2004 and 2005, the amount of gold recovered was not material.
Geology
The Hycroft Open Pit Mine is located on the western flank of the Kamma Mountains. The deposit is hosted in a volcanic eruptive breccia and conglomerates associated with the Tertiary Kamma Mountain volcanics. The volcanics are mainly acidic to intermediate tuffs, flows and coarse volcaniclastic rocks. Fragments of these units dominate the clasts in the eruptive breccia. Volcanic rocks have been block-faulted by dominant north-trending structures, which have affected the distribution of alteration and mineralization. The Central Fault and East Fault control the distribution of mineralization and subsequent oxidation. A post-mineral range-front fault separates the orebody from the adjacent Pleistocene Lahontan Lake sediments in the Black Rock Desert.
The known gold mineralization within the Crofoot and Lewis properties extends for a distance of three miles in a north-south direction by 1.5 miles in an east-west direction. Mineralization extends to a depth of less than 330 feet in the outcropping to near-outcropping portion of the deposit on the northwest side to over 1,000 feet in the Brimstone deposit in the east. Not all the mineralization is oxidized and the depth of oxide ore varies considerably over the area of mineralization.
We currently have 26 patented claims that comprise approximately 1,600 acres and 2,349 unpatented claims that comprise approximately 46,400 acres. Combining the patented and unpatented claims, our claims total approximately 48,000 acres. This claim package was acquired by the Company in a series of transactions:
•
The Crofoot property and approximately 3,500 acres of claims were acquired by Vista in 1988. The Crofoot property, originally held under lease, is owned by Hycroft Resources & Development, Inc. subject to a 4% net profits interest retained by the former owners.
•
The F.W. Lewis property and approximately 8,700 acres of claims were acquired by Vista in early 1987
•
In 2006, approximately 13,100 acres of additional claims were staked by Vista. These claims were around or contiguous to the original Crofoot and F.W. Lewis Claims.
•
In 2008, we staked approximately 22,700 acres of additional claims contiguous to or around the existing Hycroft claims.
Our Hycroft patented claims occupy private lands and our unpatented claims occupy public lands. The public lands include unpatented mining claims on lands administered by the BLM. These claims are governed by the laws and regulations of the U.S. federal government and the state of Nevada. To maintain the patented claims in good standing, we must pay the annual property tax payments to the county in which the claims are held. To maintain the unpatented claims in good standing, we must file a notice of intent to maintain the claims and pay the annual mineral claim filing fees to the state and the BLM.
Ore Reserves
Wilson Consulting issued the Hycroft Technical Report on October 17, 2008, in accordance with NI 43-101 guidelines. The report and verification of the data employed in the report was undertaken under the supervision of Mr. Scott Wilson, C.P.G., a “qualified person” under NI 43-101 independent of Allied Nevada.
Wilson Consulting, Inc. prepared this technical report of the Hycroft Mine at our request. This report was intended to provide a technical summary of the Hycroft Mine gold and silver resource and reserves for Allied Nevada. This technical report is written in compliance with disclosure and reporting requirements set forth in the Canadian Securities Administrators’ National Instrument 43-101, Companion Policy 43-101CP, and Form 43-101F1 and reconciled as appropriate to conform to SEC Industry Guide 7. Prior to this report, Wilson Consulting had authored a technical report pertaining to the Hycroft Mine dated June 18, 2008. The technical information contained in the October 17, 2008 technical report reflects material changes that occurred since the June 2008 Report.
Wilson Consulting evaluated Allied Nevada’s current economic forecasts and used these criteria to report the Proven and Probable Mineral Reserves for the Hycroft Project. Mining sequences were determined and mining plans were developed. Wilson Consulting believed that there have been sufficient evaluations of mining, processing, economic and environmental factors to support the determination of Proven and Probable reserves for the Hycroft Mine.
Wilson Consulting, utilizing the guidelines prescribed by NI 43-101 and SEC Industry Guide 7, determined proven and probable mineral reserves within a pit design that is economic using a cutoff grade of 0.005 ounces per ton of gold. In compliance with SEC Industry Guide 7, these reported reserves were determined to be
economic using a 3-year historical gold price average of $720. Gold recovery utilizing a run-of-mine heap leach process is estimated to be 56.6% for both proven and probable reserves.
Mine Operations
The mining of our current proven and probable ore reserves in the Brimstone Pit and Cut-5 Pit will be conducted by open pit methods using 200-ton haul trucks, 26-yard wheel loaders and DML blast hole drills. Mining in the Brimstone pit has been designed with five mining phases and the Cut-5 Pit will be mined in one single sequence. Our current mine plans are based upon an annual mining rate of 25 million tons of material per year using 25 foot lifts and three lifts per catch bench.
We are currently in the first phase of five phases of mining at the Brimstone Pit. This first phase included the initial development of the mine (pre-production mining of waste), the waste mining stage when we mine a greater proportion of waste than ore and then the ore mining stage where we mine a greater proportion of ore than waste. The initial development of the Brimstone Open Pit involved the mining of 2.6 million tons of waste and was completed in the third quarter of 2008. We are currently in the waste mining stage which involves the mining of a greater proportion of waste than ore (a higher strip ratio) in order to allow for more efficient ore release in future periods. We expect to return to lower strip ratios in early 2009 as we complete the waste mining stage of phase 1 and proceed to the ore mining stage. We are currently using a contract mining company to expedite ore production in the early stages of mining. We will continually evaluate the economics of continuing the use of the contract miner in the future.
We currently plan to haul and place the ore production from the mine on the Brimstone pad system as run of mine material. The Brimstone pad system is currently comprised of the previously operated Brimstone leach pad and the 1.1 million square foot leach pad expansion we completed in 2008. This leach pad system has sufficient capacity to handle our ore placement requirements for most of 2009. We plan to continually expand this leach pad system in 2009 and future years as production requires. All ore-grade material placed on the leach pad will be cross-ripped to enhance permeability. A network of solution drip lines will be positioned and the run of mine material will be leached with a cyanide solution for a period of 60 to 90 days before another 30 ft high lift of ore is placed on top of the existing lift. Return solution from the pad containing the precious metals is directed to the pregnant solution pond. Gold will be removed from pregnant solutions using a carbon in leach solution process (“CIL process”) and at the Brimstone plant using the Merrill-Crowe Zinc Precipitation Gold Recovery Process (“Merrill-Crowe process”). The carbon from the CIL Process will be transported to a third party for processing to recover the precious metals from the carbon and produce a doré containing gold and silver. Doré containing gold and silver will be produced at the Hycroft Mine from the Merrill-Crowe process. Based on previous operating experience 56.6% of the gold placed on the pad is expected to be recovered in the plant. We are currently in the startup phase of the Brimstone Pit and the Brimstone Leach Pad System. As mentioned above, ore deliveries from the mine are currently lower than we expect to experience once we attain sustainable ore release in the second quarter of 2009. The startup phase of a leach pad system also results in a steady increase in production as more ore is placed under leach. As a result, based on our current life of mine production plan, we expect the gold production from the Hycroft mine to gradually increase over the startup phase until the middle of 2009 when we expect to reach normal production levels of approximately 90,000 ounces of gold per year.
The Doré containing gold and silver will then be shipped to a contract refinery to be further processed into gold and silver bullion. The contained gold and silver is typically sold in either a doré or bullion form. When sold in a doré format, the contained gold and silver will be sold to a metals merchant who will ultimately receive the delivery of bullion from the refinery. Alternatively, we can sell the gold and silver bullions once the refining process has been completed.
During 2009, we expect to evaluate a number of alternatives to increase the annual gold production from the Hycroft Mine. The alternatives we are considering include the following:
•
Increasing mining rates in order to increase annual gold production. Initial studies show that the mine plan and process facilities can accommodate a 30% expansion to mining rates. This increased mining rate would be accomplished by the use of a mining contractor or the purchase of additional mining equipment. A 30% increase to the total mining rate would increase ore production by approximately 3 million tons per annum and would increase annual gold production by 15,000- 25,000 ounces per year. Operating costs would be similar to those presently experienced at the mine.
•
By increasing the grade of gold and silver in the pregnant solution, the operating efficiencies of the Merrill-Crowe plant and the Carbon in Leach (CIL) plant will improve. The 2009 operating plan includes the expansion of ponds, pumps, piping and leach pads to allow for “stacking” of the pregnant solution (increasing the grade of the pregnant solution). The “stacking” of pregnant solution will begin in the third quarter of 2009. The benefits of this optimization program will not be realized until 2010.
•
The third expansion alternative presently being evaluated is to take advantage of the additional gold and silver recovery that may be obtained by crushing the ore as opposed to placing run of mine ore on the pad. Metallurgical testing is currently in progress to determine the increase in gold and silver recovery that would result from crushing the ore. Historic production data indicates that by crushing ore to approximately one inch in size that gold recovery could improve by approximately 20%. No historic data is available for the effect of crushing on silver recovery. The metallurgical test work and associated economic evaluations will be completed in the third quarter of 2009. The potential benefits of this expansion would not be seen until 2011.
Additionally, we expect to continue our oxide exploration drilling program in 2009 and future years to identify additional proven and probable oxide reserves that could ultimately increase the total amount of gold mined at the Hycroft Mine.
Infrastructure, Equipment and Services
At December 31, 2007, the mining operations consisted of the Crofoot, Brimstone, and Boneyard open pits and associated waste dumps. Vista had placed these pits on a care and maintenance program in 1998 due to low gold prices. Although these pits had survived the extended shutdown relatively well, a number of steps were taken in order to continue production at the Brimstone open pit in 2008.
At December 31, 2007, the site processing facilities included the Crofoot and Brimstone Leach Pads, the Crofoot and Brimstone Merrill-Crowe Zinc Precipitation plant, and the Crofoot refinery. The leach pads and process plants also included the associated pumps, piping, and other related equipment. The following is a discussion of the condition of these processing facilities and the work completed in 2008 to repair, refurbish, or replace them as necessary:
•
We inspected the Brimstone Leach Pad System and made the necessary repairs and improvements to reactivate it from the care and maintenance program that it had been on since 1998. The Leach Pad System had been maintained in good condition but required the rebuild of a number of pumps, the inspection of process ponds, the replacement of netting on the process ponds, and the inspection of process piping.
•
Construction of the refinery included a new building, retort, furnace, ventilation system, safe, crane and scrubber, and bag house for the retort and furnace.
•
The mine completed the design and expansion of 1.1 million square feet of additional pad space for the Brimstone pad. The expansion is the first phase of several planned pad expansion phases designed to accommodate the oxide ore reserve at Hycroft. The pad is being designed and constructed in cells to allow for optimum solution control and efficient pond reclamation.
•
The Brimstone plant was in good shape requiring a minimum amount of repair. The Crofoot plant is not currently operational and would required significant work to put it into production. The plant would have to be rebuilt as would the process ponds and pumps. The Nevada Division of Environmental Protection (NDEP) has not renewed the water pollution control permit for the Crofoot plant operations, which would then require some additional regulatory work. The plant is not currently scheduled for use.
The site receives line current provided by NVEnergy off the northwestern power grid. With the cooperation of the power provider, we inspected the substations, power lines and transformers and repaired and replaced any necessary components.
We currently have adequate water rights to process the planned ore. We have rehabilitated the primary process water well and fresh water well and have developed a new back up process water well.
Many of the important site ancillary buildings that had been constructed during the previous period of operations continue to be in relatively good condition despite having been placed on a care and maintenance program. These ancillary buildings included the warehouse, the main office, the mobile maintenance shop, the light vehicle maintenance shop, the engineering building, and the assay lab. During 2008, the following steps were taken to repair and replace these buildings as necessary:
•
The administrative building was demolished and a new metal frame office building was constructed.
•
Due to the purchase of a larger haul trucks than had been previously used at the mine, modifications to the maintenance building to allow the haul trucks to enter the doors were completed.
•
The assay lab and equipment was inspected and relative minor repairs to the building and purchases of modern technology were required to return the assay lab to acceptable operating standards.
At December 31, 2007, we had a limited amount of operational equipment at the Hycroft mine. Most of the equipment that existed at that time had been ancillary pieces of equipment or production equipment that had little or no resale value when Vista placed the mine on a care and maintenance program in 1998. During 2008, we completed the following activities to acquire production equipment and to rehabilitate existing equipment:
•
In March 2008, we purchased a used mining fleet consisting of five 200-ton haul trucks, two 26-yard wheel loaders, two blast hole drills and various pieces of support equipment. The fleet was disassembled and shipped to the Hycroft Mine in the second quarter of 2008. During 2008, we completed the component rebuilds to return this equipment to full operating condition.
•
We purchased additional production and ancillary equipment as required by the Hycroft Development Program. We acquired two production drills and a Komatsu Dozer under capital leases and purchased the ancillary equipment with cash.
Hycroft Mine Exploration
Allied Nevada, as of year-end 2008, has drilled a total of 391 holes, for combined total of 296,164 feet, at the Hycroft Project. 135 holes, for combined total of 75,227 feet of drilling, have been directed towards the oxide reserve expansion program. A combined total of 4,125 feet have been drilled to assess the metallurgy of material
stacked on the Crofoot leach pad. A combined total of 15,672 feet have been drilled to condemn the region of the expanded Brimstone leach pad region.
The remaining drilling (192 holes) has targeted both near-surface oxidation mineralization, plus sulfide mineralization at depth. Much of this drilling has been wide-spaced (approximately 500 feet between drill holes), to an average depth of 1,050 feet. Drill targets tested include the Brimstone, Central, Bay Area and Silver Camel zones, plus testing of a geophysical anomaly to the south of Brimstone (Vortex).
Material from all holes has been assayed using a fire assay procedure for both gold and silver content by one of three independent laboratories. Management intends to continue exploration drilling on the sulfide system in 2009. We plan to conduct metallurgical testing and additional engineering work in 2009. We intend to complete a pre-feasibility study evaluating the economic viability of the sulfide project and anticipate completion of the study in 2010.
The analysis of the current drill results and historical geological information suggests that gold and silver mineralization is hosted along north-south trending zones of approximately 14,000 feet in length. These zones are partially defined laterally by post-mineral faults. The following individual zones, from west to east, currently recognized are: Camel, Cove, Central, Boneyard, Albert, Fire, Brimstone, and Vortex. The expanded program is also planned to include further exploration of the Fire, Albert, Boneyard, Cove and Camel zones. There has been historic mine production from the Cove, Central and Brimstone zones. The other zones have been defined by historic drill holes and surface mapping.
Upon completion of a drill hole, the hole is surveyed and then plugged. Management of the drill program, sample collection and assay program is being carried out by Allied Nevada. Qualified independent consultants have reviewed all aspects of the exploration program and are expected to conduct regular reviews of the ongoing exploration program.
Any expansion of the Hycroft Mine necessary to exploit any additional reserves that may be established through our Hycroft exploration drilling program that are not located within our current mine plan, will require us to obtain all permits, approvals and consents of regulatory agencies responsible for the use and development of mines in Nevada.
Exploration Properties
Exploration Properties are both those properties where we retain a significant controlling interest or joint venture and where there has been sufficient drilling and analysis completed to identify and report reserves or other mineralized material and more than 100 earlier-stage exploration properties. Allied Nevada currently has six properties on which mineralized material has been identified: Maverick Springs (a 45% joint venture with Silver Standard), Mountain View, Hasbrouck, Three Hills, Wildcat and Pony Creek/Elliot Dome.
None of these properties currently have proven or probable reserves as defined by Industry Guide 7. Additionally, with the operation of the Hycroft Mine, the properties are important to us, but are not “material” in the meaning associated with Industry Guide 7.
We are currently evaluating these six properties to determine how to best advance these projects by increasing the identified mineral resources, improving the quality of these mineral resources, or advancing the project to a development decision.
The following map provides the general location of each of these six properties on which we have identified mineralized material. All of the Company’s properties are within the state of Nevada.
The following table summarizes information we consider important concerning our Advanced Exploration Properties. The reader is directed to the more comprehensive information about these properties starting immediately following the summary table.
Advanced Exploration Properties
Summary Information
Property Name
Approximate
Acreage
(Claim Type)
Original
Ownership
Interest
Geology
Exploration/
Mining History
Mineralization and Other
Maverick Springs
4,920 acres
(246 unpatented
)
45%, subject to underlying royalties and annual lease payments of $100,000 (Allied Nevada’s share is 45%)
Sediment hosted disseminated gold/silver system.
Prior exploration and drilling by Vista and Silver Standard Resources Inc. and others.
Mineralized material is estimated at 69.6 million tons grading 0.01 opt gold and 1.0 opt silver at a silver-equivalent cut-off grade of 1.0 opt silver.
Allied Nevada in joint venture with Silver Standard Resources Inc.
Maverick Springs
The Maverick Springs project is located in northeast Nevada at the southeast end of the Carlin Trend belt of gold-silver mineralization, approximately half-way between Elko and Ely, Nevada. The property consists of 246 claims with a total area of approximately 4,920 acres.
On October 7, 2002, Vista completed the acquisition of a 100% interest in the Maverick Springs gold and silver project from Newmont Mining Corporation (“Newmont”) and the Mountain View gold project (described below) from Newmont’s wholly-owned subsidiary Newmont Capital Limited (“Newmont Capital”). To acquire the interest in Maverick Springs, Vista paid cash of $250,000 and issued 141,243 equity units to Newmont, each unit comprised of one Vista share and one two-year Vista warrant. Newmont retained a 1.5% NSR, and on October 7, 2003, Vista issued to Newmont 122,923 Vista shares and 122,923 Vista warrants. All of the foregoing Vista warrants expired unexercised. In addition, pursuant to acquisition agreement terms Vista completed 34,060 feet of drilling as of October 7, 2004, and was required to complete an additional 15,940 feet of drilling before October 7, 2006; such drilling was completed in August 2006. Allied Nevada may terminate this agreement at any time. After October 7, 2006, Newmont had a one-time right to acquire a 51% interest in the Maverick Springs project, by paying to Allied Nevada twice the amount that Allied Nevada and, historically Vista, have spent on the project, including acquisition costs. In the event that Newmont exercises this right, Newmont would relinquish its 1.5% NSR. This one-time right expired 60 days after receipt of data on the property from Allied Nevada, which data was required to be delivered within 30 days of October 7, 2006. In January 2007, Newmont informed Vista that it would not be exercising this right.
Maverick Springs is subject to a lease agreement, between Newmont and Artemis Exploration Company. The lease was entered into on October 1, 2001, and the key terms include: payment of advance minimum royalties of $50,000 on October 1, 2003 (this has been paid) and advance minimum royalties of $100,000 on October 1, 2004 (this has been paid), $100,000 on October 1, 2005 (this has been paid) and each year thereafter while the agreement is in effect; work commitments of 6,400 feet of exploration drilling, on or before October 1 in each of 2002 (extended by agreement to November 15, 2002), 2003 and 2004 (these commitments have been met), a preliminary economic evaluation to be conducted by October 1, 2004 which was extended to April 7, 2005 (this has been completed); and a net smelter returns royalty based on a sliding scale ranging from 2% to 6%, depending on gold and silver prices at the time of production.
On June 9, 2003, Vista entered into an agreement granting Silver Standard Resources Inc. (“Silver Standard”) an option to acquire its interest in the silver mineralized material hosted in the Maverick Springs project. Allied Nevada, as successor to Vista, will retain its 100% interest in the gold mineralized material. The agreement with SSRI is subject to the terms of the Newmont purchase agreement. Under the agreement, Silver Standard was to pay $1.5 million over four years, of which $949,823 was paid to Vista in 2003, $428,481 in 2004 and $144,285 in 2005, completing the $1.5 million obligation. Since Silver Standard has satisfied the $1.5 million obligation, all costs incurred for Maverick Springs are now being shared by the two corporations as stated below. Silver Standard and Vista formed a committee to jointly manage exploration of the Maverick Springs project. Allied Nevada, as successor to Vista, has a 45% vote on the committee, and Silver Standard is the operator and has a 55% vote. Since Silver Standard has completed its $1.5 million in payments, future costs will be shared by Silver Standard and Allied Nevada on the same ratio as established for operation of the management committee: Allied Nevada 45% / Silver Standard 55%, subject to standard dilution provisions.
Prior operators have conducted drilling on the Maverick Springs project. In November 2002, Vista completed a 7-hole reverse circulation drill program totaling 7,020 feet on the Maverick Springs project. The program consisted of seven vertical reverse circulation holes, stepped out 500 feet to 2,200 feet from previously identified mineralization. All seven holes encountered flat-lying mineralization, predominantly oxidized to depths of up to 900 feet. The program outlined continuous mineralization in a 2,200-foot by 1,200-foot area, immediately adjacent to known gold-silver mineralization. With additional in-fill drilling, this newly outlined mineralization has the potential to significantly increase the mineralized material.
In October 2003, Vista completed a 16-hole reverse circulation program totaling 14,015 feet, in October 2004, Vista completed a 13-hole reverse circulation program totaling 13,015 feet and in August 2006, Vista completed a 18-hole reverse circulation drill program totaling approximately 16,000 feet. In the 4th quarter of 2008, Silver Standard completed a 5-hole program totaling 5,305 feet. Intercepts continue to indicate the potential for bulk-mineable gold-silver mineralization.
Geology
Maverick Springs can be classified as a Carlin-type or sediment/carbonate hosted disseminated silver-gold deposit. Sediment hosted deposits are common within northern Nevada, although the systems are usually gold dominated with relatively minor amounts of silver. Silver and gold mineralization at Maverick Springs has been interpreted as a roughly antiformal or arch-shaped zone with an axis that plunges shallowly to the south and seems to flatten to horizontal over the northern half of the deposit. The limbs of the arch dip shallowly to moderately at 10-30o to the east and west. Overall, the mineralized zone is elongate in the north-south direction with a length of over 6,000 feet, a width of up to 3,000 feet, and a thickness of commonly 100-300 feet.
Mineralization consists of micron-sized silver and gold with related pyrite, stibnite and arsenic sulfides. It is usually associated with intense fracturing and brecciation, with or without accompanying whole-rock silicification or stockwork quartz.
Alteration consists of pervasive decalcification, weak to intense silicification and weak alunitic argillization. Massive jasperoid is common in surface exposures and in drill core. Oxidation has affected all sulfides on surface and is pervasive to a depth of at least 400 feet, intermittent to 900 feet, and generally absent below 1,000 feet.
Based on a third-party technical study performed on behalf of Vista, the Maverick Springs project contains approximately 69.6 million tons of mineralized material with an average grade of 0.01 ounces of gold per ton and 1.0 ounce of silver per ton at a silver-equivalent cut-off grade of 1.0 ounce of silver per ton.
Mountain View
The Mountain View property is located in northwest Nevada near the Blackrock Desert. The property is approximately 15 miles northwest of Gerlach, Nevada in Washoe County; it straddles the boundary between the Squaw Valley and Banjo topographic quadrangles. The property currently consists of 128 claims with a total area of approximately 2,560 acres.
Vista’s acquisition of the Mountain View property was completed along with that of the Maverick Springs property, as described above. To acquire the interest in the Mountain View property, Vista paid cash of $50,000 and issued 56,497 equity units, each unit comprised of one Vista share and a two-year Vista warrant, to Newmont Capital, and Newmont Capital retains a 1.5% NSR. All of these Vista warrants expired unexercised. In addition, Vista completed 8,055 feet of drilling before October 7, 2004, as required by the underlying agreement. Allied Nevada may terminate this agreement at any time. After October 7, 2006, Newmont Capital had a one-time right to acquire a 51% interest in the project, by paying to Allied Nevada twice the amount that Allied Nevada, and historically Vista, have spent on the project, including acquisition costs. In the event that Newmont Capital were to exercise this right, Newmont Capital would relinquish its 1.5% NSR. This one-time right expired 60 days after receipt of data on the property from Allied Nevada, which data was required to be delivered within 30 days of October 7, 2006. In January 2007, Newmont Capital informed Vista that it would not be exercising this right.
Newmont Capital’s interest in the Mountain View property is subject to an underlying lease and two other royalty arrangements, the principal terms of which are: the underlying lease grants a 50% interest to Newmont in all claims, with a few exceptions where a 5% interest is granted; and the lessee may purchase the remaining interest in the claims for $250,000 at any time. The lessee is obligated to purchase the remaining 50% for $250,000 on achieving commercial production. Also, the lessee shall pay a 1% NSR during production, with advance minimum payments of $25,000 per year. Advanced royalties are deductible from the net smelter returns royalty and cease upon purchase of the remaining interest of the underlying lease. A 1% NSR also applies to certain other claims.
Prior operators have conducted drilling on the Mountain View property. Vista completed a five-hole reverse circulation program totaling 4,330 feet in November 2003. The results indicate the presence of a new zone of bulk mineralization approximately 200 feet east of the known core of mineralization. Vista completed a five-hole reverse circulation program totaling 4,070 feet in 2004, and the results indicate potential bulk-mineable gold mineralization and the down-dip extension of higher-grade gold mineralization.
Geology
The dominant rock types in the area are Miocene volcanics and interbedded volcaniclastic sediments. Minor greenschist facies Permo-Triassic strata occur to the northeast and a large body of granodiorite makes up the bulk of the Granite Range to the east and south.
The Miocene lithologies consist of mafic tuffs, rhyolite tuffs and flows, volcaniclastic sediments and basalts. These units are separated from the Granite Range to the east by a range front normal fault that dips steeply to the southwest. The Severance deposit is hosted by a unit known as the Severance rhyolite that is sandwiched between the range front fault to the northeast and older Tertiary tuffs, flows and volcaniclastic sediments to the southwest.
Structure on the property is dominated by northwest and northeast trending faults. Major fault offsets occur along the range-front fault system and these are offset by the northeast trending structures. Recent alluvium is offset by the range front faults.
Based on a third-party technical study performed on behalf of Vista, the Mountain View project contains approximately 23.2 million tons of gold mineralized material with an average grade of 0.013 ounces of gold per ton at a cut-off grade of 0.006 ounces of gold per ton.
Hasbrouck
The Hasbrouck property is located in southwestern Nevada about 5 miles south-southwest of the town of Tonopah in Esmeralda County, Nevada, adjacent to U.S. Highway 95 and approximately half-way between Reno and Las Vegas. The property consists of 22 patented lode mining claims and 61 unpatented lode claims that cover an area of approximately 1,300 acres.
On May 23, 2003, Vista executed a purchase agreement with Newmont Capital, which includes both the Hasbrouck property and the Three Hills property, which lies approximately 4.5 miles to the north-northwest. Terms of the purchase included a $50,000 cash payment on signing and $200,000 or, at Vista’s discretion, the equivalent in Vista shares one year after signing. In June and July 2004, Vista issued to Newmont Capital an aggregate 50,475 Vista shares at a deemed per share price of $3.96. The value of the Vista shares was based on the average NYSE-A (f/k/a AMEX) closing price of the Vista shares over the ten-trading-day period ending one day before the first anniversary of the agreement. Newmont Capital, at its option, will retain either: (a) a 2% NSR in each project together with the right to a $500,000 cash payment at the start of commercial production at either project and a further $500,000 cash payment if, after the start of commercial production, the gold price averages $400 per ounce or more for any three-month period; or (b) the right to acquire 51% of either or both projects. The latter right would be exercisable only after the later of four years or the time when Allied Nevada, and historically Vista, have incurred aggregate expenditures of $1.0 million to acquire, explore and hold the projects and would include Newmont Capital paying to Allied Nevada cash equaling 200% of the expenditures made by Allied Nevada, and historically Vista, on the related property. In this event, Newmont Capital would become operator of a joint venture with Allied Nevada, and both parties would fund the project through to a production decision. Allied Nevada’s contribution to the joint venture during this period is capped at $5.0 million, $3.0 million of which Newmont Capital would finance for Allied Nevada and recover, with interest, exclusively from related project cash flows. Allied Nevada would also grant Newmont Capital a right of first offer with respect to subsequent sale of the projects by Allied Nevada. An additional 1.5% NSR on the Hasbrouck property is held by a private party.
Geology
The property is located on Hasbrouck Mountain, which is thought to lie along the western edge of a caldera. The mountain is underlain by gently dipping ash-flow, air-fall and waterlain tuffs and volcaniclastic sediments of the Miocene Siebert Formation. Several occurrences of chalcedonic sinter deposits occur near the summit of the
mountain. Gold and silver mineralization in the Hasbrouck deposit appears to have formed relatively close to the paleo-surface in an epithermal, hot spring environment. The mineralization is concentrated in the Siebert Formation, in units stratigraphically below the chalcedonic sinter deposits that are exposed near the top of Hasbrouck Mountain. Two zones of mineralization are presently defined. The “Main” zone includes the bulk of mineralization at Hasbrouck, while the small “South Adit” zone lies 700 to 1000 feet to the south of the “Main” zone.
A third-party technical study was completed for Vista in August 2003 and was updated in August 2006. The Hasbrouck study was developed using data from 54,339 feet of drilling, principally comprised of 105 reverse circulation holes totaling 44,400 feet and 22 rotary drill holes totaling 8,980 feet. The drilling database was compiled from work performed by FMC Gold Co., Cordex Syndicate and Franco Nevada Inc. between 1974 and 1988. Based on this study, mineralized material above a cut-off of 0.010 ounces of gold per ton is 20.3 million tons with an average grade of 0.023 ounces of gold per ton and 0.32 ounces of silver per ton.
Three Hills
Three Hills is located in southwestern Nevada about 1 mile west of the town of Tonopah in Esmeralda County, Nevada, and about 4.5 miles northwest of the Hasbrouck property described above. Three Hills consists of 15 unpatented lode claims totaling approximately 201 acres.
On May 23, 2003, Vista executed a purchase agreement with Newmont Capital, which included both the Hasbrouck property and the Three Hills property. The terms of this agreement are detailed under the Hasbrouck description above.
Geology
Three Hills is located in the Walker Lane structural domain of the Basin and Range physiographic province. It is in an area of structural disruption resulting from a series of orogenic events occurring in Paleozoic, Mesozoic and Cenozoic times. Basin and Range high-angle normal faults control the mineralization at Three Hills, where they cut the Siebert Formation. Gold mineralization occurs in a zone of pervasive silicification and in the Siebert Formation and the upper 10 to 30 feet of the Fraction Tuff. The contact between these two units contains consistently higher grades of gold and is more commonly argillized than silicified.
A third-party technical study was completed for Vista in August 2003 and was updated in August 2006. The Three Hills study included data from 62,874 feet of drilling, comprised of 183 reverse circulation holes totaling 54,657 feet, 45 air-track and rotary holes totaling 6,320 feet and 9 diamond drill holes totaling 1,897 feet. The drilling was completed by Echo Bay Mines Ltd., Eastfield Resources, Saga Exploration and Cordex Syndicate between 1974 and 1996. Based on this study, gold mineralized material above a cut-off of 0.01 ounces of gold per ton was 5.7 million tons with an average grade of 0.023 ounces of gold per ton.
Wildcat
Wildcat is located about 35 miles northwest of Lovelock and 26 miles south of the Hycroft Open Pit Mine in Pershing County, Nevada. The project consists of 125 unpatented claims and 4 patented claims, comprising 2.500 acres.
During September and October 2003, Vista concluded due diligence reviews and executed formal purchase agreements to acquire the Wildcat project and the associated exploration data in three separate transactions. On September 23, 2003, Vista purchased 71 unpatented mining claims from Monex Exploration, a partnership, for $200,000 on signing and $300,000 on August 11, 2004. On commencement of commercial production, Allied Nevada will make a one-time production payment in the amount of $500,000. Thirteen of the claims are subject to an underlying 0.4% NSR, and the remaining 58 claims are subject to an underlying 1% NSR.
On October 12, 2003, Vista purchased a 100% interest in the Vernal unpatented mining claim from David C. Mough and Jody Ahlquist Mough for $50,000 on signing and $50,000 on October 1, 2004, for a total consideration of $100,000.
On October 28, 2003, Vista purchased four patented mining claims and exploration data from Sagebrush Exploration, Inc. (“Sagebrush”) for 50,000 Vista Shares issued and delivered to Sagebrush upon the closing of the transaction. The four patented claims are subject to an underlying net smelter returns royalty of 1% for gold production between 500,000 and 1,000,000 ounces, increasing to 2% on production in excess of 1,000,000 ounces.
Geology
Wildcat lies in the Seven Troughs Range which is underlain by Triassic and Jurassic sedimentary rocks and has been intruded by Cretaceous granodiorite. Volcanic domes and plugs of rhyolite, quartz latite, trachyte, and andesite have been emplaced by Tertiary volcanism. Tertiary flows of pyroclastic debris, and vitrophyres of rhyolite, quartz latite, trachyte, and andesite composition blanket much of the area. The property contains structurally controlled epithermal gold and silver mineralization identified in four areas: Hero/Tag, Main, Northeast and Knob 32. The four areas have generally similar geology and mineralization with precious metals mineralization spatially associated with the contact between granodiorite and overlying tuff. Gold mineralization occurs with low-temperature silica, chalcedony and pyrite. The Main, Northeast, and Knob 32 deposits appear to be part of the Hero/Tag deposit, though structurally displaced.
The principal low-grade zone that essentially encompassed all the mineralization is tabular and dips gently to the southeast. There appear to be two main styles of mineralization based on mapping, sampling, and statistics. There is a broad, low-grade zone surrounding higher-grade material. The principal host is the tuff in which the low-grade precious metal mineralization is represented by pervasive and intense silicification. The underlying granodiorite also contains a low-grade disseminated style of mineralization with higher grade silicified breccias occurring generally as stockwork within it. Generally, the granodiorite has higher grade and is not silicified. Any silicification is restricted to adjacent veins and veinlets, occasionally being discrete veins as were exploited historically, but also resulting in a large-tonnage stockwork. All of the tuff was altered by epithermal solutions; however, much of the granodiorite is unaltered. High-grade material includes multi-episodic chalcedonic silica veins and breccias.
A third-party technical study was completed for Vista in November 2003 and was updated in August 2006. Using data from one underground channel sample, 245 reverse circulation drill holes and 11 diamond drill holes totaling 95,466 feet, gold mineralized material above a cut-off grade of 0.010 ounces of gold per ton was estimated at 38.1 million tons grading 0.018 ounces of gold per ton and 0.16 ounces of silver per ton.
Pony Creek/Elliot Dome Property
The Pony Creek/Elliot Dome Property is located in the Larrabee mining district of Elko County, Nevada, in the southern half of the Carlin Trend, 28 miles southeast of the town of Carlin and 19 miles south of Newmont Gold Company’s Rain Mine.
The Pony Creek/Elliot Dome Property consists of 895 unpatented lode mining claims (approximately 17,900 acres). The property is located across the crest of the southern part of the Pinyon Range at elevations ranging from 6,600 feet to about 8,000 feet. Access to the property from the west is by traveling the Indian Pony road off State Highway 278, or from the east via the Red Rock Ranch road off a junction with State highway 228.
Pursuant to an agreement with the Pescios, Mill City owns a 100% interest in the property and was to pay the Pescios an NSR of 3%. Escalating annual property payments would have to be made to the Pescios and Mill City may purchase 1.0% of the 3.0% NSR for a total of $1 million. Mill City must also pay annual rentals to the BLM of $125 per claim on or before September 1 of each year and appropriate county filing fees to the Elko County Recorder on or before November 1 of each year.
If the conditions stated in the option agreement signed July 27, 2004 between Grandview, Mill City and the Pescios are satisfied, then the NSR will be reduced to 2% and Grandview will be given the option to purchase 1% of the 2% NSR, up to the time of commencement of production from the property for $1.5 million.
Pursuant to this option agreement with Mill City on July 27, 2004, Grandview Gold Inc. earned an option to purchase a 60% interest in the property and committed to spend a minimum of $3.5 million by July 31, 2007, complete a minimum of 30,000 feet of drilling on the Pony Creek and Elliot Dome properties and assume all BLM and County fees with respect to the property. By an amendment agreement dated December 17, 2004, the Pescios agreed that their right to receive cash payments will cease if the Grandview option agreement is terminated and will remain suspended until the property is re-optioned.
Prior to commencement of any surface disturbance, permits must be obtained from the BLM which permits exploration activities and a reclamation bond must also be posted.
Newmont Exploration Ltd. (“Newmont Exploration”) conducted regional exploration programs in search of additional gold deposits along the Carlin trend. In 1980 a stream-sediment sampling program identified anomalous gold and arsenic associated with an altered rhyolite body at what is now the Pony Creek Property. Newmont located 100 claims in 1980 to cover the prospect and located 80 more claims in 1982 to cover additional ground. Newmont began drilling in 1981 and conducted drill programs through 1985. Newmont conducted additional drilling campaigns in 1987 and 1989 with limited success. An option was acquired by Westmont Mining, Inc. in 1990, and in April of 1993 Quest International Management Services, Inc. (formerly Ramrod Gold, Inc.) acquired Westmont. Quest then joint ventured the property with Uranerz U.S.A., Inc. in 1994. Uranerz drilled a total of 15 holes in 1994-1995 before terminating the JV in 1995. In 1997 Quest purchased Newmont’s remaining interest in the property and signed a JV agreement with Barrick. Four holes were drilled by Barrick before they terminated the agreement in 1998. In 1999, Quest International Resources was acquired by Standard Mining Co. and it abandoned the Pony Creek property. Mr. Pescio acquired Pony Creek by staking claims in the fall of 1999. Homestake optioned the property shortly afterward. A year later, after drilling 5 reverse circulation drill holes, Homestake terminated their agreement with Mr. Pescio. Nevada Contact Inc. optioned the property from the Pescios in 2001 and drilled 8 holes before terminating the agreement in early 2003. In July 2003, Mill City optioned the property from the Pescios.
As part of the Arrangement Agreement, Allied Nevada acquired the Pescios’ interest in the Pony Creek Property from the Pescios. Allied Nevada is now the holder of a royalty on the claims, and holds contractual rights that may in certain circumstances require the record owner to transfer ownership of the claims to Allied Nevada.
Geology
Most of the property is comprised of dry, sagebrush- and grass-covered hills with a few juniper and pinyon pines. The climate is favorable for year-round mining and exploration may be done from May through November.
Power for a modern mill can be brought in from the vicinity of Elko, but ranch power is available only a few miles away. Water is not available on the surface, but was encountered in most of the reverse circulation drill holes. Water may also be present in sufficient quantities in the nearby valleys to the east and west. The claims carry with them the surface rights for mining. Although the area is hilly, sufficient flat areas are present in the property area for potential processing plant sites, tailings storage areas, waste disposal areas and leach pads.
The Pony Creek property lies along the axis of a regional Mesozoic anticline that parallels the crest of the Pinyon Range. The project area is within a zone of convergence of two major structural trends which are the boundaries of a north-south series of grabens and half grabens collectively referred to as the Pinyon Graben. A series of Tertiary felsic intrusives have been emplaced at various points along this structural zone.
The lithologies of the region include the allochthonous, eugeoclinal, siliceous western assemblage, the autochthonous, miogeoclinal, eastern carbonate assemblage and the mixed overlap assemblage. The Late Devonian Early Mississippian Roberts Mountain Thrust and the post Pinyon Anticline, Mesozoic thrust faults have moved the western assemblage and a significant portion of the overlap series over the eastern facies. Other important stratigraphic units of the region are Mississippian through Pennsylvanian clastics of the overlap assemblage which overlie both autochthonous and allochthonous units of the Roberts Mountains Thrust. Younger Late Pennsylvanian to Early Permian clastics disconformably overlie the overlap assemblage.
In the Pinyon Range, high-angle northeast and northwest trending faults and north trending faults, all with oblique displacement, and a younger set of east trending normal faults, are important elements in the structural framework of the region. A Tertiary-age wrench faulting event, characterized by strike-slip faulting and intrusion of felsic rocks into graben faults, probably contributed to the emplacement of gold deposits into the Pinyon Graben.
Gold mineralization in the Bowl area is related to felsite breccias. The porphyritic phase consists of a series of rocks from feldspar porphyry to quartz porphyry and ranges in color from white to medium gray. The fragmental unit contains up to 5% of 1 to 2 mm diameter rounded and embayed quartz phenocrysts and feldspar phenocrysts in a white to light gray, fine-grained, ash-rich, clastic matrix. The dark colored felsite is very similar to the feldspar porphyry except that the aphanitic felsite is often nearly black. Porphyritic felsite appears to be interbedded with the fragmental felsite in gently dipping tabular masses up to 100 thick. In the Pot Holes area a lens of fragmental felsite approximately 60 feet thick intersects the low-angle fault that is at the base of the Robinson Thrust plate. The felsite breccias of the Bowl area may be fault breccia to explosion breccias. The breccia fragments are of variable lithology, reportedly including sediment fragments. The matrix, which is generally altered, consists of fragmental felsite and is termed a “sandy” rhyolite. The breccias are mineralized in the Bowl area and possibly are important hosts in other parts of the property.
Alteration within the rhyolite intrusive includes quartz-sericite-pyrite (Qsp) associated with north and northeast trending shears. The shear zones are fragmental and brecciated and contain very fine-grained quartz, sericite and pyrite/goethite, both as disseminations and on fractures. Away from the shear zones the rhyolite gradually becomes fresher, grading outward from relict feldspar ghosts into porphyritic rhyolite. In the center of the intrusive along the east flank of Rhyolite Hill, as well as in some other areas, the intrusive has a granular texture and feldspars have been altered, leaving open clay-filled vugs. The sanded rhyolite consists of medium-grained rounded clasts of glassy rhyolite breccia occurring near the margins and at the base of the intrusive, and locally as narrow stockwork zones in the intrusive. The distribution and texture of the sanded rhyolite suggest that the unit formed in vitric chill margins and apparently was partially fluidized by subsequent hydrothermal activity. Sediments along the margins of the intrusive and immediately beneath the rhyolite have been silicified, decalcified and sulfidized and, in and around the mineralized cells, have been extensively oxidized (hypogene oxidation). Sediments also occur as xenoliths throughout the rhyolite and can be observed in outcrop and in subsurface. The margins of the xenoliths are usually partially absorbed and most contacts are gradational.
Early-Stage Exploration Properties
In general, these properties either do not have sufficient work completed to identify and report reserves or other mineralized material or we do not have a significant controlling interest or joint venture on the property.
Certain of these exploration properties have been optioned and leased to other exploration companies in return for production royalties averaging approximately 3.0% advance minimum royalties and, on some of the properties, work commitments. For the properties under lease, the lessee is typically responsible for making the land payments including the BLM fees and county property tax payments.
BLM filing fees and county property tax payments were paid for approximately 7,600 unpatented mining claims held by Allied Nevada.
Discussions have been initiated with various lessees to renegotiate agreements with terms that are in alignment with our corporate exploration objectives. We will pursue other strategic options that could include exploration joint ventures, royalty agreements, or the sale or release of the mineral property.
Property Dispositions
On December 31, 2007, Madison Enterprise Corp. (“Madison”) exercised its option under an Exploration Agreement to acquire our Battle Mountain property consisting of 360 unpatented mining claims in Lander County, Nevada by paying Allied Nevada $2.0 million. Under the terms of the Exploration Agreement, Allied Nevada retained an NSR of 5% for gold and silver and 4% for other minerals. Additionally, Madison is required to pay an AMR of $60,000 annually subject to adjustment for inflation, which amount was paid together with Madison’s option exercise described above. Allied Nevada received the 2008 AMR payment from Madison. Madison has an option in the Exploration Agreement to purchase the NSR for payment of $4.0 million subject to an annual escalation.
In April 2008, Allied Nevada completed the sale of its 50% interest in the Hamilton-Treasure Hill mineral property consisting of 106 patented and 112 unpatented mining claims for $1.0 million. Under terms of the agreement, Allied Nevada retained an NSR of 1%, which is subject to a buyout for a payment of $0.5 million in the first 24 months from closing escalating thereafter to a maximum of $3.0 million.
In October 2008, Allied Nevada completed the sale of its 50% interest in the Wonder District mineral property for $0.6 million. The property consists of 70 patented lode mining claim, 1 townsite and associated water rights related to the claims and the townsite. Allied Nevada does not retain an NSR on production from the property.
Item 3.