ITEM 2. Properties
In addition to our leased headquarters in the central business district of Houston, Texas, we also maintain over 2.5 million square feet of manufacturing, service and sales facilities throughout the central U.S., Canada, Venezuela and Colombia, as well as sales offices in Beijing, Hong Kong and Moscow. We have a total of 58 facilities, 48 are located in the United States and Canada, of which 17 are owned and 31 are leased, and the remaining 10, all of which are leased, are located abroad. Furthermore, the facilities contain over 288 acres of land to be used for future expansions. We believe our properties are in good condition, well-maintained and sufficient for our current operations.
Our facilities are located close to major onshore and offshore petroleum fields in the United States and in a number of the world’s energy producing nations. A summary of our major locations is shown below:
Location
Leased /Owned
Type
Dallas, TX
Owned
Manufacturing /Service /Sales
Houston, TX (East)
Owned
Manufacturing /Service /Sales
Houston, TX (Northwest)
Owned
Manufacturing /Service /Sales
Odessa, TX
Owned
Manufacturing /Service /Sales
Denver, CO
Owned
Manufacturing /Service /Sales
San Antonio, TX
Owned
Service /Sales
New Orleans, LA
Owned/Leased
Manufacturing /Service /Sales
Farmington, NM
Owned
Service /Sales
Corpus Christi, TX
Owned
Service /Sales
Odessa, TX(1)
Leased
Manufacturing /Service /Sales
Edmond, OK(1)
Leased
Manufacturing /Service /Sales
Victoria, TX(1)
Leased
Manufacturing /Service /Sales
Calgary, Canada(1)
Leased
Manufacturing /Service /Sales
(1)
As part of the Crown Acquisition, we entered into lease arrangements with the seller and were granted an option, exercisable by July 2008, to purchase the leased facilities.
We are, from time to time, party to various legal proceedings arising in the normal course of our business. These proceedings primarily involve commercial claims, product liability claims, intellectual property claims, environmental claims, personal injury claims and workers’ compensation claims. We cannot predict the outcome of these lawsuits, legal proceedings and claims with certainty. Nevertheless, we believe that the outcome of any currently existing proceedings, even if determined adversely, would not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.
ITEM 4.
Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
None.
PART II
ITEM 5.
Market for Registrant’s Common Equity and Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities
As of January 31, 2008, there were six record holders of our outstanding units. There is no established public trading market for any class of our common equity.
Subsequent to the SSSI Acquisition, our income is reported for federal and certain states by our shareholders. We make quarterly distributions to them to fund these tax obligations. During Fiscal 2007 and 2006, $20.3 million and $16.1 million, respectively was distributed to shareholders for their tax obligations. No tax distributions were made in Fiscal 2005.
The following table sets forth our selected historical consolidated financial data as of and for the five years ended January 31, 2004, 2005, 2006, 2007 and 2008. The selected historical consolidated financial data as of and for each of the years ended January 31, 2006, 2007 and 2008 were derived from our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report. The data for the year ended
January 31, 2006 has been derived by combining the results of the business acquired in the SSSI Acquisition (the “SSSI Acquired Business”) for the period of February 1, 2005 to January 22, 2006 and our results for the period of January 23, 2006 to January 31, 2006, both included elsewhere in this Annual Report. The selected historical consolidated financial data as of and for the years ended January 31, 2004 and January 31, 2005 was derived from audited financial statements not included in this 10-K. You should read this information in conjunction with the discussion under “Item 7: Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and our consolidated financial statements and related notes thereto included elsewhere in this Annual Report.
ITEM 7.
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
The following discussion should be read in conjunction with “Selected Financial Data” and our consolidated financial statements and related notes thereto included in this Annual Report. The following information contains forward-looking statements, which are subject to risks and uncertainties. Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, our actual results may differ from those expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements.
Overview
We are a leading designer, manufacturer and marketer of specialized equipment and provide aftermarket parts and service to the oil and gas and other industries that we have served for over 100 years. Our diversified product lines include equipment for well stimulation, well servicing and workover rigs, drilling rigs, coiled tubing, cementing, nitrogen pumping, power generation and electrical systems as well as engines, transmissions and material handling equipment. We have a substantial installed base of equipment, which provides us with significant opportunities for recurring, higher-margin aftermarket parts and service revenues. We also provide rental equipment to our customers.
Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (“EBITDA”) is a non-GAAP financial measurement. We use EBITDA because we believe that such a measurement is a widely accepted financial indicator used by investors and analysts to analyze and compare companies on the basis of operating performance and to make informed investment decisions. You should not consider it in isolation from or as a substitute for net earnings or cash flow measures prepared in accordance with GAAP or as a measure of profitability or liquidity. EBITDA calculations by one company may not be comparable to EBITDA calculations made by another company.
In Fiscal 2007, we generated revenues of $1,335.4 million, operating profit of $126.1 million and EBITDA of $145.3 million, compared with revenues of $942.1 million, operating profit of $62.0 million and EBITDA of $79.2 million in Fiscal 2006, representing increases of 42%, 103% and 83%, respectively. Fiscal 2006 represented increases of 36%, 139%, and 103%, respectively compared with revenues of $690.7 million, operating profit of $25.9 million and EBITDA of $39.1 million for the combined Fiscal 2005. The following table provides a reconciliation of net earnings from continuing operations (a GAAP financial measure) to EBITDA (a non-GAAP financial measure):
Sales of our equipment are significantly driven by the capital spending programs of our customers. Growing worldwide demand for energy has resulted in significantly increased capital expenditures by oil and gas producers in recent years. Increasing demand for natural gas in the United States and the correlating increase in unconventional natural gas production requires utilization of technologically-advanced well stimulation equipment of the nature that we provide. Although commodity price fluctuations may impact the level of oil and gas exploration activity in the long term, we believe the capital spending programs of our customers at this time continue to be strong. A decrease in the capital spending programs of our customers would adversely impact our equipment sales and to a lesser extent our aftermarket parts and service and rental sales.
Many of the non-energy industries we serve have also been experiencing significant growth, particularly the commercial vehicle and material handling industries and we believe they will provide us with significant opportunities to continue to grow our business. Approximately 19% and 40% of our revenues in Fiscal 2007 and Fiscal 2006, respectively, came from a large number of customers in a wide range of industries outside of the oil and gas industry. The decrease in Fiscal 2007 is primarily due to the acquisition of the Crown business which primarily serves the oil and gas services market.
Our aftermarket parts and service segment, which serves customers in the oil and gas, power generation, marine, mining, construction, commercial vehicle and material handling industries, generated approximately 28% of our revenues during Fiscal 2007. We provide aftermarket parts and service for equipment manufactured by approximately 100 manufacturers, including products manufactured by us and our seven key OEMs, and our aftermarket business provides us with a very stable and recurring revenue stream.
On February 26, 2007, we acquired substantially all of the operating assets and assumed certain liabilities of Crown, a supplier of well stimulation, drilling, workover, and well servicing rigs to the oil and gas industry. The Crown Acquisition enhanced our position as a leading supplier of well stimulation, coiled tubing, cementing and nitrogen pumping equipment and expanded our product offerings to include drilling rigs, and a full range of workover and well servicing rigs. As a result of the Crown Acquisition, we have increased our manufacturing capabilities and broadened the markets we serve with an extensive manufacturing facility in Calgary, Alberta, Canada and five service facilities in strategic locations in the United States. Our results of operations for Fiscal 2007 reflect the impact of the Crown Acquisition for the period from February 26, 2007 to January 31, 2008, while prior periods do not reflect the impact of the Crown Acquisition.
While we believe the opportunities to grow our business are significant, there are also challenges and uncertainties we face in executing our business plans. In the current environment of strong demand for products and services of the type we provide, our ability to procure certain components on a timely basis to meet the delivery needs of our customers is a concern. Although a substantial portion of the products we sell include components provided by our seven key OEMs with whom we have long standing relationships, because of the current levels of high demand for the components we require, we on occasion need to rely upon alternative sources of supply. Our ability to satisfy the delivery requirements of a customer on a timely basis is critical to our success.
Although we have the benefit of a highly trained and experienced workforce, we believe that attracting and retaining high quality and experienced personnel is a significant challenge in today’s competitive environment, particularly in oil and gas related activities. Accordingly, we place particular emphasis on career development programs that aim to make improvements in the retention of employees, including senior and middle management.
We believe we are well-positioned to continue capitalizing on favorable conditions in the industries we serve and to meet the challenges that may face us in the execution of our business plans.
Our Historical Financial Information
Our fiscal year begins on February 1 of the stated year and ends on January 31 of the following year. For example, Fiscal 2007 began on February 1, 2007 and ended on January 31, 2008. We report results on the fiscal quarter method with each quarter comprising approximately 13 weeks.
Stewart & Stevenson LLC was formed in November 2005 for the purpose of acquiring from SSSI and its affiliates substantially all of the equipment, aftermarket parts and service and rental businesses that primarily serve the oil and gas industry as well as the perpetual rights to the “Stewart & Stevenson” name and logo for use worldwide. We began operations on January 23, 2006 upon consummation of the SSSI Acquisition pursuant to which we acquired substantially all of the assets and operations of SSSI’s Power Products and Engineered Products operating segments. Upon acquiring these businesses, these operations were combined and restructured into three reportable operating segments: Equipment, Aftermarket Parts and Service and Rental. Our operating results for Fiscal 2003, Fiscal 2004 and the period from February 1, 2005 to January 22, 2006 reflect carved-out presentations of the SSSI Acquired Business from the Predecessor’s financial statements presented on a stand-alone basis.
For the purposes of presenting Fiscal 2005 data, we have combined the period of February 1, 2005 to January 22, 2006 from the carved-out predecessor financial statements with our operating results for the period of January 23, 2006 to January 31, 2006. This combined presentation for the year ending January 31, 2006 reflects a non-GAAP financial measurement and the combined results are not intended to reflect pro forma results, as if the businesses were combined for the entire fiscal year. However, the combined Fiscal 2005 data is presented in order to provide a more meaningful measure of our financial performance in Fiscal 2005 as it reflects an entire year of operations. Although there were certain changes to the successor depreciation and amortization expense as a result of purchase accounting adjustments, these adjustments did not have a material impact in Fiscal 2005. The following table provides a reconciliation of the audited financial statements to the combined Fiscal 2005 results:
The presentation of the carved-out Predecessor financial statements requires certain assumptions in order to reflect the business as a stand-alone entity. The Predecessor financial statements also include 19 operating business units which were exited by the Predecessor’s Power Products Segment prior to the SSSI Acquisition. The results of these exited businesses are reflected as discontinued operations in the Predecessor financial statements. The acquired businesses are reflected as continuing operations in the Predecessor financial statements.
We conduct our operations as Stewart & Stevenson LLC, a limited liability company, and, as a result, U.S. federal and certain state income taxes are paid by the holders of our equity interests. Therefore, no U.S. federal income tax expense was recorded in our statement of operations for the period from January 23, 2006 to January 31, 2006 and the years ended January 31, 2007 and January 31, 2008.
Critical Accounting Policies
Preparation of financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts and related disclosures. We evaluate our estimates on an ongoing basis, based on historical experience and various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results may differ from these estimates. If actual market conditions are less favorable than those projected by us, additional adjustments to reserve items might be required. We consider the following policies to be the most critical and pervasive accounting policies we use, and the areas most sensitive to material change from external factors.
Revenue Recognition: Revenue on equipment and parts sales is recognized when a product is shipped, collection is reasonably assured, risk of ownership has been transferred to and accepted by the customer and contract terms are met. Revenue from service agreements is recognized as earned, when services have been rendered. Revenue from rental agreements is recognized on a straight-line basis over the rental period.
With respect to long-term contracts that extend beyond two fiscal quarters, revenue is recognized using the percentage-of-completion method. The majority of our long-term construction contracts are fixed-price contracts, and measurement of progress toward completion is based on direct labor hours incurred. Changes in estimates for revenues, costs to complete the project and profit margins are recognized in the period in which they are reasonably determinable. Any anticipated losses on uncompleted contracts are recognized whenever evidence indicates that the estimated total cost of a contract exceeds its estimated total revenue. With respect to cost-plus-fixed-fee contracts, we recognize the fee ratably as the actual costs are incurred, based upon the total fee amounts expected to be realized upon completion of the contracts. Bid and proposal costs are expensed as incurred.
Allowance for Doubtful Accounts: We maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts for estimated losses related to credit extended to customers. We base such estimates on our current accounts receivable aging and historical collections and settlements experience, existing economic conditions and any specific customer collection issues we have identified. Uncollectible accounts receivable are written off when we determine that the balance cannot be collected.
As of January 31, 2008, the allowance for doubtful accounts was $3.1 million, or 1.9% of gross accounts receivable, compared to $1.7 million, or 1.4% of gross accounts receivable at January 31, 2007. This increase was due to the one-time acquisition of reserves acquired in the Crown Acquisition.
Bad debt write-offs have improved from $2.1 million in Fiscal 2005 (0.3% of sales) to $1.7 million in Fiscal 2006 (0.2% of sales) and $1.2 million for Fiscal 2007 (less than 0.1% of sales). Although no known events exist that would cause a significant change to our historical experience related to bad debt, a change in events or circumstances could impact our expected operating results. Based upon our sales in Fiscal 2007, a 0.1 percentage point increase in bad debt expense as a percentage of sales would decrease our annual operating profit by $1.3 million.
Inventories: Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market, with cost primarily determined on a first-in, first-out (“FIFO”) basis less related customer deposits, and market determined on the basis of estimated realizable values. Pursuant to distribution agreements, we purchase a considerable amount of our inventory for resale from independent manufacturers. For new items, cost represents invoice or production cost and used equipment inventory cost is stated as original cost less allowance for condition. Production cost includes material, labor and manufacturing overhead. Shipping and handling costs are expensed as incurred in cost of sales. Shipping and handling costs billed to customers are recorded as sales.
We reduce the carrying value of inventory to its estimated realizable value based upon our historical usage experience, assumptions about future demand, technological innovations, market conditions, plans for disposal and the physical condition of products. The inventory balances as of January 31, 2008 and January 31, 2007 are stated net of inventory valuation allowances of $12.3 million and $9.3 million, respectively, reflecting a 4.1% reserve level at January 31, 2008 and a 4.0% reserve level at January 31, 2007.
Although no known events exist that would cause a significant change to our historical inventory valuation experience, our inventory valuation allowances are based upon the many factors identified above, and our ability to measure or value these factors. Therefore, our estimates are subject to change.
Business Combinations and Goodwill and Indefinite-Lived Intangible Assets: Goodwill and intangible assets acquired in connection with business combinations represent the excess of consideration over the fair value of tangible net assets acquired. Certain assumptions and estimates are employed in determining the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed, as well as in determining the allocation of goodwill to the appropriate reporting unit.
We perform an impairment test for goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets annually during the fourth quarter, or earlier if indicators of potential impairment exist. Our goodwill impairment test involves a comparison of the fair value of each of our reporting units with their carrying value. Our impairment test for indefinite-lived intangible assets involves the comparison of the fair value of the intangible asset and its carrying value. The fair value is determined using discounted cash flows and other market-related valuation models, including earnings multiples and comparable asset market values. Certain estimates and judgments are required in the application of these fair value models. The discounted cash flow analysis consists of estimating the future cash flows that are directly associated with each of our reporting units. These cash flows, in addition to the earnings multiples and comparable asset market values, are inherently subjective and require significant estimates based upon historical experience and future expectations such as budgets and industry projections. We have determined no impairment exists; however, if for any reason the fair value of our goodwill or that of any of our reporting units or the fair value of our intangible assets with indefinite lives declines below the carrying value in the future, we may incur charges for the impairment. The amount of the impairment, if any, is then determined based on an allocation of the reporting unit fair values to individual assets and liabilities.
Long-Lived Assets: Long-lived assets, which include property, plant and equipment and definite-lived intangibles, comprise a significant amount of our total assets. In accounting for long-lived assets, we must make estimates about the expected useful lives of the assets and the potential for impairment based on the fair value of the assets and the cash flows they are expected to generate. The value of the long-lived assets is then amortized over their expected useful lives. A change in the estimated useful lives of our long-lived assets would have an impact on our results of operations. We estimate the useful lives of our long-lived asset groups as follows:
In estimating the useful lives of our property, plant and equipment, we rely primarily on our actual experience with the same or similar assets. The useful lives of our intangible assets are determined by the years over which we expect the assets to generate a benefit based on legal, contractual or regulatory terms.
We assess the valuation of components of our property, plant and equipment and other long-lived assets whenever events or circumstances dictate that the carrying value might not be recoverable. We base our evaluation on indicators such as the nature of the assets, the future economic benefit of the assets, any historical or future profitability measurements and other external market conditions or factors that may be present. If such factors indicate that the carrying amount of an asset or asset group may not be recoverable, we determine whether impairment has occurred by analyzing an estimate of undiscounted future cash flows at the lowest level for which identifiable cash flows exist. If our estimate of undiscounted future cash flows during the estimated useful life of the asset is less than the carrying value of the asset, we recognize a loss for the difference between the carrying value of the asset and its estimated fair value, measured by the present value of estimated future cash flows or other means, as appropriate under the circumstances.
Warranty Costs: We generally provide product and service warranties for periods of six to 18 months. Based on historical experience and contract terms, we accrue the estimated cost of product and service warranties at the time of sale or, in some cases, when specific warranty problems are identified. Accrued warranty costs are adjusted periodically to reflect actual experience. Certain warranty and other related claims involve matters of dispute that ultimately are resolved by negotiation, arbitration or litigation. Occasionally, a material warranty issue can arise that is beyond our historical experience. We accrue for any such warranty issues as they become known and estimable.
As of January 31, 2008, accrued warranty costs were $6.0 million, reflecting a $3.3 million increase from $2.7 million on January 31, 2007. This increase was primarily attributable to the substantially higher equipment sales volume generated during Fiscal 2007 and one-time charges related to engineered products.
Payments for warranty obligations, as a percentage of sales, have been consistent in recent history. Payments were $4.6 million in Fiscal 2007 (0.3% of sales), $2.5 million in Fiscal 2006 (0.3% of sales), and $2.4 million in Fiscal 2005 (0.4% of sales). Although no known events exist that would cause a significant change to our historical experience related to warranty obligations, a change in events or circumstances could impact our expected operating results. Based upon our sales recorded in Fiscal 2007, a 0.1 percentage point increase in warranty expense as a percentage of sales would decrease our annual operating profit by $1.3 million.
Customer Deposits: We sometimes collect advance customer deposits to secure customers’ obligations to pay the purchase price of ordered equipment. For long-term construction contracts, these customer deposits are recorded as current liabilities until construction begins. During construction, the deposit liability is decreased and those reductions are reflected as income recognized under the percentage-of-completion method. Those reductions also, in turn, determine the balances in the recoverable costs and accrued profits in excess of billings and billings in excess of accrued profits balances. For all other sales, these deposits are recorded as current liabilities until revenue is recognized on delivery.
Insurance: We maintain a variety of insurance for our operations that we believe to be customary and reasonable. We are self-insured up to certain levels in the form of deductibles and retentions for general liability, vehicle liability, group medical and workers’ compensation claims. Other than normal business and contractual risks that are not insurable, our risks are commonly insured against and the effect of a loss occurrence is not expected to be significant. We accrue for estimated self-insurance costs and uninsured exposures based on estimated development of claims filed and an estimate of claims incurred but not reported as of each balance sheet date. We regularly review estimates of reported and unreported claims and provide for losses accordingly. Substantially all obligations related to general liability, vehicle liability, group medical and workers’ compensation claims related to the SSSI Acquisition and Crown Acquisition were retained by SSSI and Crown, respectively.
Comparison of the Results of Operations-Fiscal 2007 and Fiscal 2006
Sales-For Fiscal 2007, our sales were $1,335.4 million, an increase of $393.3 million, or 42%, over Fiscal 2006 sales of $942.1 million. This increase was primarily attributable to strong demand for equipment from our customers in the oil and gas industry and the impact of the inclusion of the Crown business from February 26, 2007 through January 31, 2008, which accounted for $205.5 million of the increase in sales. A breakdown of sales for these periods is as follows:
Sales of equipment grew by 59%, or $346.9 million, during Fiscal 2007 compared to Fiscal 2006. Organic growth in equipment sales accounted for $186.2 million as a result of strong customer demand, primarily for our well stimulation and power generation equipment, resulting in increased orders and higher sales prices, with $160.7 million of the increase in sales related to the Crown business.
Aftermarket parts and service sales grew by $43.9 million to $376.3 million during Fiscal 2007 from $332.4 million in Fiscal 2006. Sales related to the Crown business were $44.8 million during Fiscal 2007 with a decrease of $0.9 million in our organic aftermarket parts and service sales.
Rental sales grew by 9%, or $2.5 million, during Fiscal 2007 when compared to Fiscal 2006. The growth in rental sales was attributable to higher utilization and improved pricing.
Gross profit-Our gross profit was $265.0 million for Fiscal 2007, an increase of $96.9 million, compared to $168.1 million in Fiscal 2006, reflecting an improvement in gross profit margin from 17.8% to 19.8%. Gross profit margins improved in all segments in Fiscal 2007. The overall increase in gross profit was due primarily to improved pricing in the strong market environment and improved efficiencies related to the streamlining of our manufacturing processes in our equipment segment. Organic growth accounted for $56.7 million of the increased gross profit with the Crown business accounting for the remaining $40.2 million.
Selling and administrative expenses-Selling and administrative expenses increased by $31.9 million to $139.9 million in Fiscal 2007 compared to $108.0 million in Fiscal 2006, primarily as a result of the Crown business expenses of $24.1 million. Excluding the Crown business expenses, selling and administrative expenses increased $7.8 million, primarily due to the higher sales expenses associated with the higher sales volume. Selling and administrative expenses as a percentage of sales decreased to 10.5% for Fiscal 2007 from 11.5% in Fiscal 2006, mainly as a result of some costs being of a fixed nature. Fiscal 2007 results included a $0.4 million non-cash compensation charge associated with the sale of common equity from our principal shareholder to our president and chief operating officer compared to Fiscal 2006 non-cash compensation charges of $3.7 million associated with the sale of common equity from our principal shareholder to our president and chief operating officer and to our former vice chairman and chief executive officer. Additionally, Fiscal 2007 and Fiscal 2006 results included $6.3 million and $7.0 million, respectively, of non-cash amortization expense pertaining to acquired backlog and other intangible assets. To determine the non-cash compensation charge relating to the sale of the equity interests described above, we relied on a valuation prepared by a third party valuation specialist that used a comprehensive valuation analysis for the purpose of determining the fair value of a minority, non-marketable interest in our company. Fiscal 2007 results include the write-off of $1.3 million of legal and professional expense related to our proposed initial public offering.
Other income, net-Other income was $1.0 million in Fiscal 2007, a decrease of $0.9 million from Fiscal 2006. Fiscal 2006 included a $1.0 million gain related to the sale of a marginal distribution territory. Other income in Fiscal 2007 consists primarily of foreign currency translation gains.
Operating profit-Our operating profit improved to $126.1 million, or 9.4% of sales, in Fiscal 2007, from $62.0 million, or 6.6% of sales, in Fiscal 2006, primarily as the result of higher sales and gross profit margins. Organic growth generated $47.2 million of the $64.1 million increase in operating profit, or 74%, when compared to Fiscal 2006, with the Crown business accounting for the remaining $16.9 million increase, or 26%.
Interest expense, net-Net interest expense was $29.1 million in Fiscal 2007, an increase of $9.3 million compared to net interest expense of $19.8 million in Fiscal 2006. The increase in interest expense is due primarily to the higher amounts outstanding under our credit facility and $150 million of senior notes issued in July 2006, along with a $1.5 million non-cash charge for the amortization of deferred financing costs related to the senior notes, refinancing of our credit facility, the Crown Acquisition and higher working capital requirements in Fiscal 2007.
Comparison of the Results of Operations-Fiscal 2006 and Combined Fiscal 2005
Sales-For Fiscal 2006, our sales were $942.1 million, an increase of $251.5 million, or 36%, over Fiscal 2005 sales of $690.7 million. This increase in sales was primarily attributable to strong demand for equipment from our customers in the oil and gas industry combined with our increased production output. A breakdown of sales for these periods is as follows:
Sales of equipment grew by 62%, or $223.9 million, during Fiscal 2006 compared to Fiscal 2005, primarily attributable to strong demand for equipment from our oil and gas industry customers.
Aftermarket parts and service sales grew by $28.3 million to $332.4 million during Fiscal 2006 from $304.1 million in Fiscal 2005, primarily the result of strong demand from our oil and gas industry customers.
Rental sales fell by 3%, or $0.8 million, during Fiscal 2006 when compared to Fiscal 2005. The decline in rental sales in Fiscal 2006 compared to Fiscal 2005 is primarily the result of decreased demand in Fiscal 2006. Rental sales experienced a surge in demand following Hurricanes Katrina and Rita in 2005.
Gross profit-Gross profit was $168.1 million for Fiscal 2006, an increase of $60.2 million, compared to $107.9 million in Fiscal 2005, reflecting an improvement in gross profit margin from 15.6% to 17.8%. Gross profit margins improved in all segments of the business in Fiscal 2006, due primarily to improved pricing in the strong market environment, along with a $2.8 million reduction in depreciation expense relating to reduced carrying values of acquired property, plant and equipment resulting from the allocation of purchase price from the SSSI Acquisition.
Selling and administrative expenses-Selling and administrative expenses increased by $23.5 million to $108.0 million in Fiscal 2006, compared to $84.5 million in Fiscal 2005, representing a decrease as a percentage of sales from 12.2% to 11.5%. Fiscal 2006 results included $3.7 million of non-cash compensation charges associated with the sale of common equity from our principal shareholder to our president and chief operating officer and to our former vice chairman and chief executive officer. Additionally, Fiscal 2006 results included $7.0 million of non-cash amortization expense pertaining to acquired backlog and other intangible assets. The remainder of the increase in selling and administrative expenses was due to higher sales expense on higher sales volume and other corporate overhead expenses.
Other income, net-Other income was $1.9 million in Fiscal 2006, a decrease of $0.5 million from Fiscal 2005. Fiscal 2006 included a $1.0 million gain related to the sale of a marginal distribution territory.
Operating profit-Our operating profit improved to $62.0 million, or 6.6% of sales, in Fiscal 2006, from $25.9 million, or 3.7% of sales, in Fiscal 2005.
Interest expense, net-Net interest expense was $19.8 million in Fiscal 2006, reflecting interest paid and accrued under our credit facility and $150 million of senior notes issued in July 2006, along with a $1.5 million non-cash charge for the write-off of deferred financing costs related to the refinancing of our credit facility. Net interest expense was $0.4 million in Fiscal 2005, reflecting that prior to the SSSI Acquisition, the Predecessor had minimal third-party debt.
Segment Data
Our reportable operating segments are based on the types of products and services offered and are aligned with our internal management structure. Inter-segment and intra-segment revenues and costs are eliminated, and the operating profit (loss) represents the earnings (loss) before interest and income taxes.
Our reportable segments include:
Equipment-This segment designs, manufactures and markets equipment for well stimulation, coiled tubing, cementing, nitrogen pumping, power generation and electrical systems, serving the oil and gas industry. This segment also sells engines, transmissions and material handling equipment for well servicing, workover, drilling, pumping and other applications for a wide range of other industries.
Aftermarket Parts and Service-This segment provides aftermarket parts and service for products we manufacture and products manufactured by others, to customers in the oil and gas industry, as well as customers in the power generation, marine, mining, construction, commercial vehicle and material handling industries.
Rental-This segment provides equipment on a short-term rental basis, including generators, material handling equipment and air compressors, to a wide range of end-markets.
Corporate-Our corporate segment includes administrative overhead normally not associated with the specific activities within the operating segments. Such expenses include legal, finance and accounting, internal audit, human resources, information technology and other similar corporate office costs.
Certain general and administrative costs which are incurred to support all operating segments are allocated to the segment operating results presented. Operating results by segment are as follows:
Segment Results Comparison -Fiscal 2007 and Fiscal 2006
Equipment-Operating profit generated by the equipment segment increased to $101.3 million in Fiscal 2007 from $38.6 million in Fiscal 2006, an improvement in operating profit margin from 6.6% to 10.9%, primarily due to the increased demand and the inclusion of the Crown business, which accounted for $16.2 million. The incremental operating profit generated by higher sales volume in Fiscal 2007 was partially offset by higher selling expenses and general and administrative expense allocations resulting from the higher proportion of equipment sales to total sales in Fiscal 2007, which included $3.4 million of amortization expense recorded in Fiscal 2007 associated with the acquired order backlog. The $62.7 million increase in operating profit was attributable to $14.5 million relating to improved pricing, $32.0 million related to the increase in organic sales volume and $16.2 million of incremental operating profit generated as a result of the inclusion of the results of the Crown business.
Our equipment order backlog as of January 31, 2008 was $498.9 million compared to $533.4 million as of January 31, 2007, a decrease of 6%. While we have seen some softening in the domestic well stimulation area, overall our customers’ requests for quotes continue to remain active. Due to the timing and relative size of the orders, our backlog will fluctuate from one period to another. We expect to recognize a significant portion of this equipment order backlog as revenue during Fiscal 2008.
Aftermarket Parts and Service-Operating profit generated by the aftermarket parts and service segment increased to $44.9 million in Fiscal 2007 from $43.1 million in Fiscal 2006, representing an improvement in operating profit of $1.8 million with a decline in operating profit margin from 13.0% to 11.9%. This reflected $1.2 million of incremental operating profit generated by organic growth via improved pricing and $0.6 million of incremental operating profit generated by the Crown business.
Rental-Operating profit generated by the rental segment increased to $9.1 million in Fiscal 2007 from $8.1 million in Fiscal 2006. Operating profit percentage increased to 31.6% for Fiscal 2007 from 30.7% in Fiscal 2006, mainly as a result of increased sales volumes.
During Fiscal 2007, we focused our efforts on implementing higher prices and increasing our overall rental fleet through selected expenditures. During Fiscal 2007, our rental fleet utilization was approximately 66%.
Corporate-Corporate and administrative expenses increased to $29.3 million in Fiscal 2007 compared to $27.8 million in Fiscal 2006 and decreased as a percentage of sales from 2.9% to 2.2%. The $1.5 million increase in expenses is primarily due to the ramp up of corporate and administrative operations following the SSSI Acquisition. The Fiscal 2006 results included a $3.7 million non-cash compensation charge associated with the sale of common equity by our principal shareholder to our president and chief operating officer and our former vice chairman and chief executive officer.
Corporate and administrative expenses in the near-term are expected to increase compared to levels incurred during Fiscal 2007 due to increased compliance expenses associated with implementation of Sarbanes-Oxley requirements.
Segment Results Comparison-Fiscal 2006 and Combined Fiscal 2005
Equipment-Operating profit generated by the equipment segment increased to $38.6 million in Fiscal 2006 from $10.4 million in Fiscal 2005, representing an improvement in operating profit margin from 2.9% to 6.6%. The increase in operating profit was attributable to the $43.1 incremental gross profit generated by the higher sales volume, partially offset by $2.0 million of higher selling expenses and a $12.9 million higher general and administrative expense allocation resulting from the higher proportion of equipment sales to total sales in Fiscal 2006 and which included $6.5 million of amortization recorded in Fiscal 2006 associated with acquired order backlog.
Our equipment order backlog as of January 31, 2007 was $533.4 million compared to $309.5 million as of January 31, 2006.
Aftermarket Parts and Service-Operating profit generated by the aftermarket parts and service segment increased 52% to $43.1 million in Fiscal 2006 from $28.3 million in Fiscal 2005, representing an improvement in operating profit margin from 9.3% to 13.0%. The increase in operating profit was primarily attributable to $15.0 million of incremental gross profit generated by the higher sales volume and higher prices implemented during Fiscal 2006. The general and administrative expense allocation to this segment increased by $0.2 million resulting from the lower proportion of aftermarket sales to total sales in Fiscal 2006.
Rental-Operating profit generated by the rental segment decreased to $8.1 million in Fiscal 2006 from $8.3 million in Fiscal 2005, representing a slight improvement in operating profit margin from 30.5% to 30.7%. The decrease in operating profit was attributable to a $0.6 million reduction in cost of sales and general and administrative expense allocation, offset by a $0.8 million decrease in sales. The reduction in cost of sales was partially related to lower rental fleet depreciation expense resulting from the allocation of purchase price to acquired rental assets in the SSSI Acquisition.
During Fiscal 2006, we focused our efforts on implementing higher prices, reducing our overall rental fleet through the disposal of lower utilization assets, and selected expenditures to expand certain areas of the fleet. During Fiscal 2006, our rental fleet utilization was approximately 61%.
Corporate-Corporate and administrative expenses increased to $27.8 million in Fiscal 2006 from $21.1 million in Fiscal 2005. The Fiscal 2006 results included a $3.7 million non-cash compensation charge associated with the sale of common equity by our principal shareholder to our president and chief operating officer and our former vice chairman and chief executive officer. The remainder of the increase was the result of higher expenses incurred following the SSSI Acquisition, compared to the allocated corporate office expenses incurred by the Predecessor.
Liquidity and Capital Resources
Our principal source of liquidity is cash generated by operations. We also have a $250 million revolving credit facility which we draw upon when necessary to satisfy our working capital needs and generally pay down with available cash. Our liquidity needs are primarily driven by changes in working capital associated with execution of large manufacturing projects. While many of our contracts include advance customer deposits and progress billings, some international contracts provide for substantial portions of funding under confirmed letters of credit upon delivery of the products. Fiscal 2008 working capital may increase as we continue to attempt to further expand our business, specifically in the international area.
During Fiscal 2007, we generated net cash from operating activities of $39.1 million compared to net cash generated from operating activities of $58.2 million during Fiscal 2006. The decrease in cash provided by operating activities consisted of $74.2 million as a result of changes in operating assets and liabilities, primarily due to the increasing working capital needs driven by increasing sales volumes, partially offset by $113.3 million of cash generated by net earnings, adjusted for non-cash items. The change in operating assets and liabilities is the result of increases in recoverable costs and accrued profits not yet billed, accounts receivable, inventory, and customer deposits, which in aggregate totaled $107.9 million and were partially offset by higher accounts payable, billings in excess of incurred costs and other, which in aggregate totaled $33.7 million.
Net cash used in investing activities was $96.8 million during Fiscal 2007. This included $70.5 million incurred in connection with the Crown Acquisition and $26.3 million of capital expenditures, of which $10.3 million related to additions to our rental fleet.
Net cash provided by financing activities was $64.1 million during Fiscal 2007. This includes $88.7 million in net borrowings from our revolving credit facility which was offset by tax distributions to holders of common units of $20.3 million and deferred financing and equity issuance costs of $4.3 million.
As of January 31, 2008, our cash and cash equivalent balance was $12.4 million, reflecting timing of cash receipts, disbursements and borrowings under our revolving credit facility.
Current Resources
In connection with the SSSI Acquisition, a $70.0 million capital contribution was made by the holders of our equity interests. The contribution included $5.0 million of common interests, along with $65.0 million of preferred interests. The preferred interests were converted into common interests during the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2006, constituting 25% of the total common equity interest, after giving effect to such conversion. A dividend payment with respect to the preferred units of $4.1 million was paid during the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2006, representing an 8% preferential profit distribution accrued by the preferred units prior to conversion.
Also in connection with the SSSI Acquisition, we entered into a $250.0 million senior credit facility including term loans of $66.0 million and a revolving credit facility of $184.0 million. During the second quarter of Fiscal 2006, we issued $150.0 million of senior notes, which bear interest at 10% per annum and mature in July 2014. Interest payments on the senior notes are due semi-annually. The net proceeds from the issuance of the senior notes were applied to pay off the outstanding term loans and reduce the borrowings under the revolving credit facility. In conjunction with this refinancing, the senior credit facility was amended, reducing the credit facility to a $125.0 million revolving credit facility. In February 2007, a second amendment to the senior credit facility, which expires in February 2012, increased the revolving facility to $250.0 million and added a $25.0 million sub-facility to be used by our Canadian subsidiary which we established as part of the Crown Acquisition. The amended $250.0 million revolving credit facility is secured by substantially all accounts receivable, inventory and property,
plant and equipment and provides for borrowings at LIBOR, plus a margin ranging from 1.25% to 2.00% per annum, based on our leverage ratios, as specified in the credit agreement. As of January 31, 2008, borrowings under the facility bear interest at LIBOR plus 1.5% or 5.3%. A commitment fee of 0.3% to 0.375% per annum is payable on all unused portions of the revolving credit facility based on our leverage ratios. Interest payments are due monthly, or as LIBOR contracts expire. The revolving credit facility also has a $30.0 million sub-facility which may be used for letters of credit. As of January 31, 2008, there were $16.7 million of letters of credit outstanding.
As of January 31, 2008, borrowings under our senior credit facility and our senior notes were as follows:
We incurred $3.3 million of capitalized legal and financing charges associated with establishing the original $250.0 million senior credit facility, which are amortized over the five-year term of the facility. As a result of the amendment reducing the facility to $125.0 million, we recorded a $1.5 million non-cash charge during Fiscal 2006 in interest expense. We incurred an additional $2.2 million of deferred financing costs in Fiscal 2007 related to the amendment of the senior credit facility which increased the facility to $250.0 million and extended its term to February 2012. We also incurred $5.1 million of capitalized legal and financing charges associated with the issuance of our senior notes during Fiscal 2006. These costs are being amortized over the eight-year term of the notes. As of January 31, 2008, $8.8 million of unamortized costs were included in the balance sheet.
In February 2007, we acquired substantially all of the operating assets and assumed certain liabilities of Crown Energy Technologies, Inc., for cash consideration of approximately $70.5 million. The Crown Acquisition was financed with borrowings under our revolving credit facility.
We currently believe that we will make approximately $40.0 million of capital expenditures during Fiscal 2008.
Based on the borrowings outstanding and letters of credit issued at January 31, 2008, approximately $85.6 million of borrowings were available under the revolving credit facility. We believe that the business will continue to generate cash from operating activities in excess of planned capital expenditures and required distributions for income tax obligations and servicing our indebtedness. Therefore, we believe that our available sources of funds, including borrowings under our senior credit facility, are adequate to cover our near-term requirements for working capital investments, capital expenditures, and other obligations.
The credit agreement governing the senior credit facility contains financial and operating covenants with which we and our subsidiaries must comply during the term of the credit agreement. These covenants include the maintenance of a fixed charge coverage ratio, restrictions related to the incurrence of certain indebtedness and investments and prohibition of the creation of certain liens. We were in compliance with all covenants for the applicable test periods as of January 31, 2008.
Scheduled maturities under the credit agreement, our senior notes and other operating lease commitments as of January 31, 2008, are as follows:
(1)
Interest in respect of our senior credit facility and notes payable is calculated assuming outstanding balance and the current average borrowing rate at January 31, 2008 remain unchanged over the term of the facilities.
Recent Accounting Pronouncements
In June 2006, the FASB issued FASB Interpretation No. 48, “Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes, an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109” (“FIN 48”). This interpretation clarifies the accounting for uncertainty in income taxes recognized in an enterprise’s financial statements in accordance with FASB Statement No. 109, “Accounting for Income Taxes.” The interpretation prescribes a recognition threshold and measurement attribute for a tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return and also provides guidance on derecognition, classification, interest and penalties, accounting in interim periods, disclosure, and transition. The provisions of FIN 48 are effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2006. We are currently operating as a limited liability corporation and income is reported for tax purposes through our shareholders (except for the Texas Margins tax and foreign taxes reported at the entity level). Therefore, the adoption of FIN 48 on February 1, 2007 did not have a material impact on our consolidated operating results or financial position.
In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157, “Fair Value Measurements” (“SFAS 157”). SFAS 157 establishes a framework for fair value measurements in the financial statements by providing a single definition of fair value, provides guidance on the methods used to estimate fair value and increases disclosures about estimates of fair value. SFAS 157 is effective for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007. The adoption of SFAS 157 on February 1, 2008 is not expected to have a material impact on our consolidated financial position, cash flows, and results from operations.
In February 2007, the FASB issued FAS No. 159, “The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities - Including an amendment of FASB Statement No. 115” (“SFAS 159”). This statement permits entities to choose to measure many financial instruments and certain other items at fair value. The objective is to improve financial reporting by providing entities with the opportunity to mitigate volatility in reported earnings caused by measuring related assets and liabilities differently without having to apply complex hedge accounting provisions. This statement is expected to expand the use of fair value measurement, which is consistent with the Board’s long-term measurement objectives for financial instruments. This statement is effective as of the beginning of an entity’s first fiscal year that begins after November 15, 2007. The adoption of SFAS 159 on February 1, 2008 is not expected to have a material impact on our consolidated financial position, cash flows, and results from operations.
In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 141R, “Business Combinations,” (“SFAS 141R”). SFAS 141R provides guidance on how acquirers recognize and measure the consideration transferred, identifiable assets acquired, liabilities assumed, non-controlling interests and goodwill acquired in a business combination. SFAS 141R also expands required disclosures surrounding the nature and financial effects of business combinations. SFAS 141R is effective prospectively for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008. The adoption of SFAS 141R on February 1, 2009 is expected to impact certain aspects of our accounting for any future acquisitions or other business combinations which may be consummated, including the determination of fair values assigned to certain purchased assets and liabilities.
ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk
We are exposed to certain market risks as part of our ongoing business operations, including risks from changes in interest rates and commodity prices, which could impact our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We plan to manage our exposure to these and other market risks through regular operating and financing activities and on a limited basis, the use of derivative financial instruments. We intend to use such derivative financial instruments as risk management tools and not for speculative investment purposes. As of January 31, 2008, we have no derivative financial instruments in use.
Foreign Exchange Risk
Our international subsidiaries in Colombia and Venezuela transact most of their business in their respective local currencies, while Canada conducts its business in both Canadian and US dollars. While local currency transactions arising from our Canadian operations represented less than 9.0% of our revenue stream during Fiscal 2007, our results of operations were not significantly impacted by changes in currency
exchange rates. Transactions denominated in local currencies generated by our Colombian and Venezuelan subsidiaries comprised less than 3% of our revenue, resulting in insignificant impacts to our results of operations from fluctuation of these foreign currencies against the U.S. dollar.
Interest Rate Risk
We use variable-rate debt to finance certain of our operations and capital expenditures. Assuming the entire $250.0 million revolving credit facility was drawn, each quarter point change in interest rates would result in a $0.6 million change in annual interest expense.
ITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data
The information required by this item is incorporated by reference to the Consolidated Financial Statements beginning on Page.
ITEM 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure
None.
ITEM 9A. Controls and Procedures
We maintain a system of controls and procedures designed to provide reasonable assurance as to the reliability of our consolidated financial statements and other disclosures included in this report, as well as to safeguard assets from unauthorized use or disposition. We evaluated the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures as defined in the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under supervision and with the participation of management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer. Based upon that evaluation, as of the end of the period covered by this Form 10-K, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were effective in alerting them, in a timely manner, to material information required to be included in our periodic Securities and Exchange Commission filings. There have been no changes in our internal control over financial reporting during the fiscal year ended January 31, 2008 that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting. The design of any system of controls and procedures is based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events.
ITEM 9A(T). Controls and Procedures
This Annual Report does not include management’s report on internal control over financial reporting or an attestation report of our registered public accounting firm due to a transition period established by rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission for newly public companies. See Item 9A above for a description of our controls and procedures.
ITEM 9B. Other Information
None.
PART III
ITEM 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant
Executive Officers and Directors
The following table sets forth information with respect to our directors and executive officers as of April 28, 2008.
Hushang Ansary (Chairman). Mr. Ansary is a Houston oil industry entrepreneur and philanthropist. He has been our Chairman of the Board since January 2006. He has served as Chairman of the Board of Parman Capital Group LLC, a privately held investment company, since December 2005 and is our principal shareholder. From June 2000 to November 2005, Mr. Ansary was a private investor. Mr. Ansary was Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of IRI International Corporation (IRI), a New York Stock Exchange oilfield equipment company, from March 1995 to June 2000 prior to the merger of IRI with National Oilwell, Inc. on the Board of which Mr. Ansary served from June 2000 to March 2005. Mr. Ansary is a former Economic and Finance Minister of Iran, Iranian Ambassador to the United States and Chairman/CEO of National Iranian Oil Company. Mr. Ansary is also Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Banco di Caribe N.V. and of SunResorts Ltd., N.V.
Robert L. Hargrave (Chief Executive Officer and Director). Mr. Hargrave has been our Chief Executive Officer since January 2007. Prior to that, he was a private entrepreneur for the preceding seven years. He also served as President and Chief Executive Officer of Stewart & Stevenson Services, Inc. from 1997 to 1999 and the Chief Financial Officer from 1983 to 1997. Mr. Hargrave served as Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer at IRI International Corporation, a New York Stock Exchange oilfield equipment company from 1999 to 2000.
Gary W. Stratulate (President, Chief Operating Officer and Director). Mr. Stratulate has been our President and Chief Operating Officer since January 2006 and was elected to our board of directors in March 2006. Mr. Stratulate was President of Rig Solutions-Eastern Hemisphere of National Oilwell Varco, Inc., an oilfield equipment company, from June 2002 to March 2005. At National Oilwell Varco, Inc., Mr. Stratulate served as Executive Vice President and Assistant to the Chairman of the Board and CEO from March 2005 to January 2006. Mr. Stratulate also served as President of Rig Systems and Controls from July 2000 to May 2002.
Jeffery W Merecka (Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Secretary). Mr. Merecka has been our Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since October 2006. Mr. Merecka has also assumed the duties of Chief Accounting Officer. He served as our Vice President-Office of the Chairman from January 2006 to October 2006, and has also been our Secretary since January 2007. At Stewart & Stevenson Services, Inc., Mr. Merecka was Vice President of Finance for the Engineered Products Division from November 2001 to January 2006, General Manager of the Oiltool Products Division from April 2001 to October 2001 and Controller of the Petroleum Equipment Division from May 1993 to March 2001.
Kenneth W. Simmons, Jr. (Vice President, Domestic Sales and Aftermarkets). Mr. Simmons has been our Vice President, Domestic Sales and Aftermarkets since November 2006; prior to that he served as Vice President of North Region Distribution and Rental Operations from January 2006 to October 2006. At Stewart & Stevenson Services, Inc., Mr. Simmons was Vice President of North Region Distribution and Rental Operations from January 2005 to January 2006 and Regional Operations Manager from August 2003 to December 2004. Prior to employment with Stewart & Stevenson, Mr. Simmons was Chief Operating Officer of USA Compression from March 2001 to March 2003.
Nina Ansary (Director). Ms. Ansary has been a member of our board of directors since January 2006. Since April 1997, she has served as President of The Ansary Foundation, which undertakes philanthropic endeavors. Ms. Ansary is the daughter of Mr. Ansary, our Chairman of the Board of Directors.
Frank C. Carlucci (Director and Vice Chairman). Mr. Carlucci has been a member of our board of directors since January 2006 and was appointed Vice Chairman of our board of directors in March 2006. Mr. Carlucci is currently retired but, from 1993 to January 2003, was Chairman of The Carlyle Group, a private equity firm. Mr. Carlucci served in various capacities in the U.S. Government, including Deputy Secretary of Defense, National Security Advisor and Secretary of Defense. Mr. Carlucci currently serves on the board of directors of SunResorts Ltd., N.V., is a member of the Supervisory Board of Banco di Caribe N.V. and is a Trustee of the RAND Corporation.
James W. Crystal (Director). Mr. Crystal has been a member of our board of directors since March 2006. Since 1958, Mr. Crystal has been Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Frank Crystal & Company, an insurance brokerage firm, is a member of the Supervisory Board of Banco di Caribe N.V. and is Vice Chairman and Trustee of Mount Sinai Medical Center, Inc., a medical service provider. Mr. Crystal also serves on the board, and is a member of the audit committee, of Blockbuster LLC, an in-home movie and game entertainment provider.
Jack F. Kemp (Director). Mr. Kemp has been a member of our board of directors since January 2006. Mr. Kemp is Chairman of Kemp Partners, a strategic consulting firm he founded in July 2002. From July 2004 to February 2005, Mr. Kemp was Co-Chairman of FreedomWorks Empower America, a non-profit, grassroots advocacy organization. From January 1993 to July 2004, Mr. Kemp was Co-Director of Empower America, which merged with Citizens for a Sound Economy to form FreedomWorks Empower America. Mr. Kemp served as a member of Congress for 18 years and as Secretary of the Department of Housing and Urban Development from February 1989 to January 1993. Mr. Kemp also serves on the boards of directors of Oracle Corporation, Hawk Corporation and Six Flags, Inc. and is a member of the Supervisory Board of Banco di Caribe N.V.
John D. Macomber (Director). Mr. Macomber has been a member of our board of directors since January 2006. He has been a Principal of JDM Investment Group, a private investment firm, since 1992. He was Chairman and President of the Export-Import Bank of the U.S. from 1989 to 1992, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Celanese Corporation from 1973 to 1986 and a Senior Partner at McKinsey & Company from 1954 to 1973. Mr. Macomber is Chairman of The Council for Excellence in Government and Vice Chairman of The Atlantic Council. He has been a Director of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. since 1994 and is a member of the Supervisory Board of Banco di Caribe N.V.
Stephen Solarz (Director). Mr. Solarz has been a member of our board of directors since January 2006. He has been the President of Solarz Associates, an international consulting firm, since January 1993 and also serves as a Senior Counselor to APCO Associates since 1994, a public affairs firm. Mr. Solarz was elected to the U.S. Congress in 1974 and was re-elected eight times.
Director Independence
Our board of directors has determined that each of Messrs. Carlucci, Crystal, Kemp, Macomber and Solarz is an “independent” director within the meaning of the applicable rules of the SEC.
Board Committees
Executive Committee
Our executive committee currently consists of Mr. Hushang Ansary, as Chairman, Ms. Nina Ansary, Mr. Frank C. Carlucci and Mr. John D. Macomber. Except as limited by Delaware law, the executive committee will exercise the authority of our board of directors when the full board of directors is not in session.
Audit Committee
The members of the audit committee are Mr. James W. Crystal, who serves as the audit committee financial expert and as the Chairman of the committee, Mr. Frank C. Carlucci and Mr. Stephen Solarz. This committee is concerned primarily with the accuracy and effectiveness of the audits of our financial statements by our internal audit staff and by our independent auditors. Its duties include:
•
selecting independent auditors;
•
reviewing the scope of the audit to be conducted by them, as well as the results of their audit;
•
approving non-audit services provided to us by the independent auditor;
•
reviewing the organization and scope of our internal system of audit, financial and disclosure controls;
•
appraising our financial reporting activities, including our annual report, and the accounting standards and principles followed; and
•
conducting other reviews relating to compliance by our employees with our policies and applicable laws.
Compensation Committee
Our compensation committee currently consists of Mr. John D. Macomber, as Chairman, Mr. Hushang Ansary and Mr. Jack F. Kemp. Our compensation committee reviews and recommends policy relating to compensation and benefits of our directors and executive officers, including evaluating executive officer performance, reviewing and approving executive officer compensation, reviewing director compensation, making recommendations to the board with respect to the approval, adoption and amendment of incentive compensation plans, administering equity-based incentive compensation and other plans and reviewing executive officer employment agreements and severance arrangements.
Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation
None of our executive officers has served as a member of a compensation committee (or if no committee performs that function, the board of directors) of any other entity that has an executive officer serving as a member of our compensation committee.
Director Compensation
Directors who are also full-time officers or employees of our company receive no additional compensation for serving as directors. All other directors receive an annual retainer of $60,000. Each non-employee director also receives an annual fee of $10,000 for serving as the chair of a standing committee, with the exception of the chair of the audit committee, who receives an annual fee of $15,000. In addition, each director who otherwise serves on a committee receives an annual fee of $5,000. For a discussion of equity awards made to our non-executive directors in anticipation of our initial public offering, see “See Item 11. Executive Compensation - Compensation Components-2007 Incentive Compensation Plan.”
Code of Ethics
In Fiscal 2007, we adopted our corporate code of business conduct and ethics which describes the basic principles of conduct of our officers, directors and employees. We will provide to any person without charge, upon written request, a copy of our corporate code of business conduct and ethics. Requests should be directed to Stewart & Stevenson LLC, 1000 Louisiana, Suite 5900, Houston, TX 77002, Attention Jeffery Merecka.
ITEM 11. Executive Compensation
The primary objectives of our compensation policies with respect to executive compensation are to attract and retain the best possible executives to lead us and to properly motivate these executives to perform at the highest levels of which they are capable. Compensation levels established for our executives are designed to promote loyalty and long-term commitment to us and the achievement of our goals, to motivate the best possible performance and to award achievement of budgetary goals to the extent such responsibility is within the executive’s job description. We have a written employment agreement with Mr. Ansary. However, none of our other executive officers are party to written or unwritten employment agreements or severance or change in control arrangements with us.
Our compensation committee is responsible for reviewing, and modifying when appropriate, the overall goals and objectives of our executive compensation programs, as well as our levels of compensation. In addition, our compensation committee is responsible for evaluating the performance of each of our executive officers and approving the compensation level of each of our executive officers.
Compensation Components
Executive compensation consists of the following:
Base Salary
The primary component of compensation of our executives is base salary. We believe that the base salary element is required in order to provide our executive officers with a stable income stream that is commensurate with their responsibilities and the competitive market conditions. The base salary levels of our executives with respect to Fiscal 2007 were established based upon: (i) the individual’s particular background and circumstances, including experience and skills, (ii) our knowledge of competitive factors within the industry in which we operate, (iii) the job responsibilities of the individual, (iv) our expectations as to the performance and contribution of the individual and our judgment as to the individual’s potential future value to us and (v) existing base salary levels. In establishing the current base salary levels, we did not engage in any particular benchmarking activities or engage any outside compensation advisors. Base salaries remained unchanged from the end of Fiscal 2006 to Fiscal 2007. We expect that in future years, base salary levels will be established based upon these factors as well as additional factors including prior year’s performance, the individual’s length of service to us and other elements. For Fiscal 2007, as in Fiscal 2006, the base salary for Mr. Ansary, our chairman of the board of directors and of the executive committee and our founder, was significantly higher than that of our other executive officers. Mr. Ansary determines our overall strategy and direction. Mr. Ansary has a major role in the creation of our organic and acquisitive growth opportunities, including execution of the Crown Acquisition, expanding our international presence, enhancing our productivity and the overall achievement of our global strategic objectives. Mr. Ansary’s base compensation for Fiscal 2007 of $2.5 million was established in light of his unique role in our company and that level of compensation was agreed to as part of the terms of our senior credit facility. Pursuant to the terms of our senior credit facility, Mr. Ansary’s total compensation for any fiscal year commencing in Fiscal 2007 may not exceed $5,000,000, provided that after consummation of an initial public equity offering, any change in Mr. Ansary’s total compensation will be subject only to the approval of our board of directors. We have entered into an employment agreement with Mr. Ansary pursuant to which Mr. Ansary’s annual base salary will continue to be not less than $2.5 million.
Bonus
We pay our executives a cash bonus. This bonus is discretionary but is based on the following factors:
(a)
the achievement of an EBITDA goal established specifically for the purpose of qualifying the named executive officers for a cash bonus;
(b)
the scope of each individual’s responsibilities;
(c)
the efforts of each individual during the fiscal year; and
(d)
the importance of retaining qualified executives in a competitive market.
In determining discretionary bonuses, we do not employ any formula, nor do we assign a particular weight to any factor. In addition, we do not make qualitative comparisons (or employ other comparative benchmarks) among or between the named executive officers. Our annual bonuses are designed to reward our executive officers for their performance during the most recent year. We believe that these bonuses provide a significant incentive to our executives towards our company-level objectives. Thus, we believe that our bonus program provides an important motivating factor, as well as an incentive to attract and retain our executive officers. Our bonus program does not guaranty any amount, or limit the amount, that may be awarded to any executive, nor does it currently provide for the establishment of any bonus pool or other means by which the overall total bonus payments to executives is set.
Our EBITDA of $120.7 million for organic operations (not including the effects of any acquisition transactions or discontinued operations or extraordinary or non-recurring items) in Fiscal 2007 exceeded the EBITDA target of $108.0 million set for the determination of bonuses to the named executives. Such bonuses are discretionary. Therefore, as previously disclosed, there is no guarantee that any named executive officer will receive a bonus for Fiscal 2007. No determination has, as yet, been made on awarding of the discretionary bonus to the named executives for Fiscal 2007.
In Fiscal 2008, bonuses will be awarded pursuant to our 2007 incentive compensation plan and may be subject to an EBITDA target from organic operations or another performance measurement. As of the date of this filing, a target for Fiscal 2008 has not been established. If and when it is established, this threshold will be solely for the purpose of qualifying the named executive officers for cash bonus awards and will not represent our performance expectation for Fiscal 2008, and therefore in no way should be construed as earnings guidance. This threshold, if established, will be a Company-level performance objective, and will not represent a target for any individual executive officer that will be a basis for a Fiscal 2008 bonus. Furthermore, as stated above, our bonuses are discretionary, so even if our Fiscal 2008 performance meets, or even exceeds, this threshold, there is no guarantee that any named executive officer (or the named executive officers as a group) will receive a bonus for Fiscal 2008. If our Fiscal 2008 performance achieves the target, if established, bonuses for the named executive officers will be determined on a discretionary basis, taking into account the factors (b), (c) and (d) set forth in the third preceding paragraph above.
401(k) Plan
We maintain a retirement savings plan, or a 401(k) Plan, for the benefit of all eligible employees. Currently, employees may elect to defer their compensation up to the statutorily prescribed limit. We match 50% of employee contributions to the 401(k) Plan, capped at 6% of the employee’s salary. An employee’s interests in his or her deferrals are 100% vested when contributed. The 401(k) Plan is intended to qualify under Sections 401(a) and 501(a) of the Internal Revenue Code. As such, contributions to the 401(k) Plan and earnings on those contributions are not taxable to the employees until distributed from the 401(k) Plan, and all contributions are deductible by us when made. We provide this benefit to our executive officers because it is a benefit we provide to all of our eligible employees and it is provided to our executive officers on the same basis as all other eligible employees.
Executive Officer Benefits
We also currently provide our executive officers with the following benefits: (i) payment of life insurance premiums, (ii) payment of medical insurance premiums, (iii) accidental death and dismemberment insurance, (iv) long term disability insurance and (v) payment of parking expenses at our headquarters. We provide these benefits as we feel they are appropriate for executives providing the level of service our executive officers provide to us and are consistent with, and comparable to, the types and levels of benefits generally provided in the marketplace.
2007 Incentive Compensation Plan
On September 5, 2007, our board of directors adopted the 2007 Incentive Compensation Plan (“incentive plan”), The incentive plan received the required approval of a majority of our unit holders and became effective on September 27, 2007. The purpose of the incentive plan is to attract, reward and retain qualified personnel, and to provide incentives for our directors, officers and employees to set forth maximum efforts for the success of our business. Our incentive plan permits the granting of awards in the form of options to purchase common stock, stock appreciation rights, restricted shares of common stock, restricted stock units, performance shares, performance units and senior executive plan bonuses (which may be in shares of common stock and/or cash).
Subject to certain adjustments that may be required from time to time to prevent dilution or enlargement of the rights of participants in the incentive plan, a maximum of 2,500,000 shares (which may be in the form of units prior to our conversion to a corporation) will be available for grants of all equity awards under the incentive plan. The shares of common stock to be issued under the incentive plan consist of authorized but unissued shares of our common stock. If any shares are subject to an award that expires or are forfeited, then such shares will, to the extent of any forfeiture or termination, again be available for making awards under the incentive plan. To the extent any awards granted are subject to the achievement of a performance goal in respect of a fiscal year or other period, upon the occurrence of a change of control during the period, the performance goal shall be deemed satisfied.
The performance goals applicable to any award under the incentive plan in respect of any participant who is or is likely to become a “covered employee” within the meaning of Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code will be based on specified levels of, growth in, or performance relative to peer company or peer company group performance in one or more of the following categories (excluding extraordinary or nonrecurring items unless otherwise specified):(a) profitability measures; (b) revenue, sales and same store sales measures; (c) business unit performance; (d) leverage measures; (e) stockholder return; (f) expense management; (g) asset and liability measures; (h) individual performance; (i) supply chain efficiency; (j) customer satisfaction; (k) productivity measures; (l) cash flow measures; (m) return measures; and (n) product development and/or performance.
Awards under the incentive plan are subject to the following limitations: (A) the maximum number of shares of common stock that (i) may be subject to stock options or appreciation rights granted to a participant during any calendar year may not exceed 400,000 shares plus an additional 100,000 shares in respect of a participant who has not previously been employed by us and (ii) may be subject to performance shares, restricted shares or restricted stock units granted to a participant during any calendar year may not exceed 200,000 shares plus an additional 50,000 shares in respect of a participant who has not previously been employed by us and (B) the maximum aggregate cash value of payments to any participant for any performance period pursuant to an award of performance units and the payment of a senior executive plan bonus to any participant in respect of any fiscal year may not in either case exceed 2% of EBITDA (excluding the effects of discontinued operations or extraordinary or non-recurring items).
Our compensation committee administers the incentive plan. The compensation committee has the ability to: select individuals to receive awards; select the types of awards to be granted; determine the terms and conditions of the awards, including the number of shares, the purchase price or exercise price of the awards, if any, and restrictions and performance goals, if any, relating to any award; establish the time when the awards and/or restrictions become exercisable, vest or lapse; and make all other determinations deemed necessary or advisable for the administration of the plan.
While our board of directors may terminate or amend the incentive plan at any time, no amendment may adversely impair the rights of grantees with respect to outstanding awards. In addition, an amendment will be contingent on approval of our stockholders to the extent required by law. Unless terminated earlier, the incentive plan will terminate on the tenth anniversary of the date on which it was approved by our stockholders, after which no further awards may be made under the incentive plan, but will continue to govern unexpired awards.
Summary Compensation Table
We consummated the SSSI Acquisition on January 23, 2006 and, as a result, we conducted operations for only one week of Fiscal 2005. As a result, individual compensation information paid by Stewart & Stevenson LLC to our named executive officers during that one week period is not material. The following table sets forth the compensation of our most highly compensated executive officers, which include our chief executive officer, for Fiscal 2006 and Fiscal 2007. We refer to these individuals as our named executive officers.
Equity Awards
In connection with the adoption and approval of the incentive plan and in anticipation of an initial public equity offering, the compensation committee of the board, which has the responsibility to administer the incentive plan, made certain grants of restricted shares to the Company’s non-executive directors (Ms. Ansary and Messrs. Carlucci, Crystal, Kemp, Macomber and Solarz and until April 2008, Mr. Zarb) and certain members of the Company’s senior executive management (Messrs. Hargrave and Merecka). The grants to the seven non-executive directors consist of 60,000 restricted shares vesting in five (5) 12,000 share tranches, with each such tranche vesting upon board service for a complete fiscal year. The above-listed directors, other than Mr. Zarb, completed their second fiscal year of board service on January 31, 2008. Mr. Zarb completed his first fiscal year of service on that date. If a director shall serve for only part of a fiscal year, the tranche of restricted shares that would be vested at the end of such fiscal year shall vest pro rata, based on the number of days served. The grant to Mr. Hargrave consists of 60,000 restricted shares vesting in five (5) 12,000 share tranches, with each such tranche vesting upon employment for a complete fiscal year. Mr. Hargrave completed his first fiscal year of service on January 31, 2008. The grant to Mr. Merecka consists of 50,000 restricted shares
vesting in five (5) 10,000 share tranches, with each such tranche vesting upon employment for a complete fiscal year. Mr. Merecka completed his second fiscal year of service on January 31, 2008. The latter two grants are subject to the achievement of net pre-tax income growth in the relevant fiscal year that exceeds the median net pre-tax income growth of a peer group of companies consisting of Schlumberger, Ltd., National Oilwell Varco, Inc., Weatherford International Ltd., Cameron International Corp. and BJ Services Company. For Fiscal 2007, net pre-tax growth for the Company exceeded the peer group’s median pre-tax growth. One-time, non-recurring, non-operational gains or charges to income taken by the Company or any member of the designated peer group that are publicly reported will be excluded. The latter two grants are also subject to acceleration in the case of an executive’s death or disability. All grants are subject to (i) the completion of an initial public equity offering, and (ii) accelerated vesting upon a change-in-control of the Company.
Units Vested During Fiscal 2007
Director Compensation
Directors who are also full-time officers or employees of our company receive no additional compensation for serving as directors. All other directors receive an annual retainer of $60,000. For a discussion of equity awards made to our non-executive directors in anticipation of our initial public offering, see “- Equity Awards.” Each non-employee director also receives an annual fee of $10,000 for serving as the chair of a standing committee, with the exception of the chair of the audit committee, who receives an annual fee of $15,000. In addition, each director who otherwise serves on a committee receives an annual fee of $5,000. The following table sets forth compensation earned by our non-employee directors in Fiscal 2007.
ITEM 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters
The following table sets forth certain information as of April 29, 2008 regarding the beneficial ownership of our outstanding common equity, by:
•
each person or entity known by us to beneficially own more than 5% of our outstanding common stock;
•
each of our directors and named executive officers; and
•
all of our directors and executive officers as a group.
Beneficial ownership of shares is determined under rules of the SEC and generally includes any shares over which a person exercises sole or shared voting or investment power. In computing the number of shares beneficially owned by a person and the percentage ownership of that person, shares of common stock subject to options held by that person that are currently exercisable or exercisable within 60 days of April 29, 2008 are deemed outstanding. These shares, however, are not deemed outstanding for the purposes of computing the percentage ownership of any other person. Except as indicated in the footnotes to this table and as provided pursuant to applicable community property laws, the stockholders named in the table have sole voting and investment power with respect to the shares set forth opposite each stockholder’s name. Unless otherwise indicated, the address for each of the individuals listed below is: c/o Stewart & Stevenson LLC, 1000 Louisiana St., Suite 5900, Houston, Texas 77002.
(1)
Mr. Hushang Ansary is the sole member of Parman Capital Group LLC and has sole voting and dispositive power with respect to the shares held by Parman Capital Group LLC.
(2)
EC Investments B.V. is indirectly 93.9% owned and BDC Investments B.V. is 100% indirectly owned by Banco di Caribe N.V. (the “Bank”). Mr. Gijsbert van Doorn, the chief executive officer of EC Investments B.V., has sole voting and dispositive power with respect to the shares held by EC Investments B.V. Mr. Steven C. Graybill, the chief executive officer of BDC Investments B.V., has sole voting and dispositive power with respect to the shares held by BDC Investments B.V.
(3)
Shares beneficially owned by the Bank reflect beneficial ownership of shares held by EC Investments B.V. and BDC Investments B.V. Mr. Hushang Ansary is chairman of the Supervisory Board of the Bank and of a private investment company that owns a controlling interest in the Bank. Messrs. Carlucci, Crystal, Kemp and Macomber are also members of the Supervisory Board of the Bank. Each of Messrs. Ansary, Carlucci, Crystal, Kemp and Macomber disclaim beneficial ownership of such shares.
(4)
Reflects beneficial ownership of shares held by Parman Capital Group LLC.
(5)
Reflects shares held by Frank C. Carlucci III Revocable Trust.
ITEM 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions
James W. Crystal, a member of our board of directors, is also the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Frank Crystal & Company, Inc., an insurance brokerage firm. In Fiscal 2007 and Fiscal 2006, we purchased insurance coverage through Frank Crystal & Company, Inc., generating commissions to Frank Crystal and Company, Inc. of $535,568 and $491,507, respectively. The purchase of this coverage was negotiated on an arm’s length basis and we believe that the premium was within the range of market prices for similar types of insurance coverage. We currently anticipate that we will continue to procure insurance from Frank Crystal & Company, Inc.
In 2006, we paid ESI Properties LLC, an affiliate of Mr. Ansary, $931,000 as reimbursement for expenses incurred by us in connection with the SSSI Acquisition, consisting of $110,000 for air travel, at cost, $21,000 for other travel expenses, at cost, and $800,000 for legal expenses paid. In addition, we also paid ESI Properties LLC $1,750,000 to acquire from it, at cost, fractional ownership of aircraft and $600,000 to acquire from it, at net book value, office furnishings and equipment. The reimbursed amounts reflect costs actually incurred for services provided by third parties. We believe the price paid for the assets acquired was comparable to the price that would have been obtained from third parties. As ESI Properties LLC is wholly-owned by Mr. Ansary, the dollar value to Mr. Ansary of the amount paid to ESI Properties LLC is equal to the entire amount paid. We do not currently anticipate that we will engage in similar transactions with Mr. Ansary or his affiliates in the future.
The Company’s current practice with respect to related party transactions is as follows: (i) transactions with a value not exceeding $10,000 are subject to approval by our Chairman (other than transactions in which our Chairman is party), (ii) transactions in which our Chairman is party or transactions with a value in excess of $10,000 and not exceeding $100,000 are subject to approval by our Executive Committee (excluding, as appropriate, the participation of the member of the Executive Committee party to such transactions) and (iii) all other transactions are subject to approval of our Board of Directors.
ITEM 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services
Ernst and Young LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, served as our auditors for Fiscal 2007 and Fiscal 2006.
The nature of each category of fees is described below:
Audit Fees
Audit fees relate to the audit of our consolidated financial statements, the reviews of quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, the review of the annual report on Form 10-K and assistance with SEC filings including consent and comfort letters.
Audit-Related Fees
Audit-related fees in Fiscal 2007 and 2006 include fees for due diligence related to acquisition transactions and accounting consultations.
Tax Fees
Tax fees relate to tax compliance, tax advice and tax planning services.
Our audit committee appoints our independent auditors. The audit committee is solely and directly responsible for the approval of the appointment, re-appointment, compensation and oversight of our independent auditors. The audit committee approves in advance all work to be performed by the independent auditors. Our audit committee has determined that the services provided by Ernst & Young LLP do not impair its independence from us.
PART IV
ITEM 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules
(1)
Financial Statements
The Consolidated Financial Statements of Stewart & Stevenson LLC and its subsidiaries and the Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm are included in this Form 10-K beginning on page:
Description
Page No.
Report of Independent Public Accounting Firm
Consolidated Balance Sheets
Consolidated Statements of Operations
Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Equity
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
(2)
Financial Statement Schedules
All schedules required by Regulation S-X have been omitted as not applicable or not required, or the information required has been included in the Notes to the financial statements.
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
Date: April 29, 2008
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated:
STEWART & STEVENSON LLC AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
JANUARY 31, 2008, JANUARY 31, 2007 AND JANUARY 31, 2006
TOGETHER WITH INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM’S REPORT
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
The Board of Directors and Shareholders
Stewart & Stevenson LLC
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Stewart & Stevenson LLC and subsidiaries as of January 31, 2008 and 2007, and the related consolidated statements of operations, shareholders’ equity, and cash flows for the two years ended January 31, 2008 and January 31, 2007, and the period January 23, 2006 to January 31, 2006, and the period February 1, 2005 to January 22, 2006 (Predecessor). These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company’s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. We were not engaged to perform an audit of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting. Our audits included consideration of internal control over financial reporting as a basis for designing audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting. Accordingly, we express no such opinion. An audit also includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of Stewart & Stevenson LLC and subsidiaries at January 31, 2008 and 2007, and the consolidated results of their operations and their cash flows for the two years ended January 31, 2008 and January 31, 2007, and the period January 23, 2006 to January 31, 2006, and the period February 1, 2005 to January 22, 2006 (Predecessor), in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.
As discussed in Note 9 to the consolidated financial statements, effective February 1, 2006, the Company adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123 (revised 2004), Share Based Payment.
/s/ ERNST & YOUNG LLP
Houston, Texas
April 28, 2008
F- 2
STEWART & STEVENSON LLC AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
F- 3
STEWART & STEVENSON LLC AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
F- 4
STEWART & STEVENSON LLC AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY
See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
F- 5
STEWART & STEVENSON LLC AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
STEWART & STEVENSON LLC AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Note 1. Company Overview
Stewart & Stevenson LLC, headquartered in Houston, Texas, was formed in November 2005 for the purpose of acquiring from Stewart & Stevenson Services, Inc., or SSSI, and its affiliates on January 23, 2006 substantially all of their equipment, aftermarket parts and service and rental businesses that primarily served the oil and gas industry as well as the perpetual rights to the Stewart & Stevenson name and logo for use worldwide (the “SSSI Acquisition”). Unless otherwise indicated or the context otherwise requires, the terms “Stewart & Stevenson,” the “Company,” “we,” “our” and “us” refer to Stewart & Stevenson LLC and its subsidiaries.
We are a leading designer, manufacturer and marketer of specialized equipment and provide aftermarket parts and service to the oil and gas and other industries. Our diversified product lines include equipment for well stimulation, well servicing and workover rigs, drilling rigs, coiled tubing, cementing, nitrogen pumping, power generation and electrical systems as well as engines, transmissions and material handling equipment.
On February 26, 2007 we acquired substantially all of the operating assets and assumed certain liabilities of Crown Energy Technologies, Inc. and certain of its affiliates (“Crown”) for cash consideration of approximately $70.5 million (the “Crown Acquisition”). Crown, which was headquartered in Calgary, Alberta, Canada and had multiple U.S. operations, manufactured drilling, well servicing and workover rigs, stimulation equipment and provided related parts and services. As a result of the Crown Acquisition, we increased our manufacturing capabilities and broadened the markets we serve with an extensive manufacturing facility in Calgary, Alberta, Canada and five service facilities in strategic locations in the United States.
Note 2. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies
Use of Estimates and Assumptions: The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (“GAAP”) requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results may differ from these estimates.
Fiscal Year: Our fiscal year begins on February 1 of the year stated and ends on January 31 of the following year. For example, our “Fiscal 2007” commenced on February 1, 2007 and ended on January 31, 2008. For the purposes of the Predecessor financial statements, Fiscal 2005 began on February 1, 2005 and ended on January 22, 2006, the date on which the businesses of SSSI were acquired by Stewart & Stevenson LLC. The Successor’s Fiscal 2005 commenced on January 23, 2006 and ended on January 31, 2006. We report results on the fiscal quarter method with each quarter comprising approximately 13 weeks.
Reclassifications: The accompanying consolidated financial statements for prior fiscal years contain certain reclassifications of cost of sales by segment to conform to the presentation used in Fiscal 2007.
Consolidation: The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Stewart & Stevenson LLC and all enterprises in which we have a controlling interest. All intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated. We do not have any variable-interest entities. For purposes of presenting certain Fiscal 2005 information, we have combined the period of February 1, 2005 to January 22, 2006 from the carved-out Predecessor financial statements with our operating results for the period January 23, 2006 to January 31, 2006, a non-GAAP financial measurement in footnotes 3, 5, 6 and 8. We have included the combined financial data for Fiscal 2005 because we believe that a full year measurement for Fiscal 2005 is more useful to investors to analyze our operating results.
Cash Equivalents: Interest-bearing deposits, investments in government securities, commercial paper, money market funds and other highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less are considered cash equivalents.
Allowance for Doubtful Accounts: We maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts for estimated losses related to credit extended to our customers. We base such estimates on our current accounts receivable aging and historical collections and settlements experience, existing economic conditions and any specific customer collection issues we have identified. Uncollectible accounts receivable are written off when we determine that the balance cannot be collected.
Inventories: Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market, with cost primarily determined on a first-in, first-out (“FIFO”) basis and market determined on the basis of estimated realizable values. We retroactively applied a change in accounting from the policy of the Predecessor (last-in, first-out) to FIFO, which we believe to be a preferable basis, for all periods presented. We purchase a considerable amount of our inventory for resale from independent manufacturers pursuant to distribution agreements. Cost represents invoice or production cost for new items and original cost less allowance for condition for used equipment inventory. Production cost includes material, labor and manufacturing overhead. When circumstances dictate, we write inventory down to its estimated realizable value based upon assumptions about future demand, technological innovations, market conditions, plans for disposal and the physical condition of products. Shipping and handling costs are expensed as incurred in cost of sales. Shipping and handling costs billed to customers are recorded as sales.
Revenue Recognition: Revenue from equipment and parts sales is recognized when the product is shipped, collection is reasonably assured, risks of ownership have been transferred to and accepted by the customer and contract terms are met. Cash discounts or other incentives to customers are recorded as a reduction of revenues. Revenue from service agreements is recognized as earned, when services have been rendered. Revenue from rental agreements is recognized on a straight-line basis over the rental period.
With respect to long-term contracts that extend beyond two fiscal quarters, which accounted for approximately 37% of total sales in Fiscal 2007, revenue is recognized using the percentage-of-completion method. The majority of our long-term contracts are fixed-price contracts, and measurement of progress toward completion is based on direct labor hours incurred. Changes in estimates for revenues, costs to complete and profit margins are recognized in the period in which they are reasonably determinable. Any anticipated losses on uncompleted contracts are recognized whenever evidence indicates that the estimated total cost of a contract exceeds its estimated total revenue. With respect to cost-plus-fixed-fee contracts, we recognize the fee ratably as the actual costs are incurred, based upon the total fee amounts expected to be realized upon completion of the contracts. Bid and proposal costs are expensed as incurred.
We frequently sell equipment together with “start-up” services, which typically involve adding fuel to the engine, starting the equipment for the first time, and observing it to ensure that it is operating properly. In cases where start-up services are required on an equipment sale, the estimated start-up costs are accrued when revenue from the equipment sale is recognized. We had approximately $1.0 million and $0.8 million of accrued start-up costs that had not yet been performed as of January 31, 2008 and January 31, 2007, respectively.
Customer Deposits: We sometimes collect advance customer deposits to secure customers’ obligations to pay the purchase price of ordered equipment. For long-term construction contracts, these customer deposits are recorded as current liabilities until construction begins. During construction, the deposit liability is decreased and those reductions are reflected as income recognized under the percentage-of-completion method. Those reductions also, in turn, determine the balances in the recoverable costs and accrued profits in excess of billings and billings in excess of accrued profits balances. For all other sales, these deposits are recorded as current liabilities until revenue is recognized on delivery.
Property, Plant and Equipment: Property, plant and equipment is stated at historical cost. Depreciation is computed over the estimated useful lives of the assets, using the straight-line method. When items are retired or otherwise disposed of, income is charged or credited for the difference between net book value and proceeds realized thereon. Ordinary maintenance and repairs are charged to expense as incurred, and replacements and betterments are capitalized. Assets acquired through the acquisitions are depreciated over their remaining useful lives. The range of estimated service lives used to calculate financial reporting depreciation for new items of property, plant and equipment is as follows:
We assess the valuation of components of our property, plant and equipment and other long-lived assets whenever events or circumstances dictate that the carrying value might not be recoverable. We base our evaluation on indicators such as the nature of the assets, the future economic benefit of the assets, any historical or future profitability measurements and other external market conditions or factors that may be present. If such factors indicate that the carrying amount of an asset or asset group may not be recoverable, we determine whether impairment has occurred by analyzing an estimate of undiscounted future cash flows at the lowest level for which identifiable cash flows exist. If the estimate of undiscounted future cash flows during the estimated useful life of the asset is less than the carrying value of the asset, we recognize a loss for the difference between the carrying value of the asset and its estimated fair value, measured by the present value of estimated future cash flows or third party appraisal, as appropriate under the circumstances.
Intangible Assets: Indefinite-lived intangible assets are evaluated at least annually for impairment, during the fourth quarter or when events or circumstances indicate that it is more likely than not that an impairment loss has been incurred. See Note 9 - Intangible Assets and Goodwill.
Insurance: We maintain a variety of insurance for our operations that we believe to be customary and reasonable. We are self-insured up to certain levels in the form of deductibles and retentions for general liability, vehicle liability, group medical and workers compensation claims. Other than normal business and contractual risks that are not insurable, our risk is commonly insured against and the effect of a loss occurrence is not expected to be significant. We accrue for estimated self-insurance costs and uninsured exposures based on estimated development of claims filed and an estimate of claims incurred but not reported. The Predecessor operating results include an allocation of all identifiable self-insurance expenses that are attributable to the acquired businesses. We regularly review estimates of reported and unreported claims and provide for losses accordingly. Substantially all obligations related to general liability, vehicle liability, group medical and workers compensation claims related to the SSSI Acquisition and Crown Acquisition were retained by SSSI and Crown, respectively.
Advertising: Advertising costs are included in selling and administrative expenses and are expensed as incurred. These expenses totaled $2.0 million, $1.4 million and $2.2 million for Fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively.
Corporate cost allocation: The Predecessor organization included a corporate office segment which was not allocated to the operating business units. These costs include the facility-related costs of maintaining the corporate office, chief executive, legal, finance, investor relations and other similar costs. Costs incurred by the Predecessor corporate office segment, which were attributable to supporting the underlying businesses, but not clearly identifiable to any specific operation were $10.6 million during Fiscal 2005. For allocation purposes, we used a weighted average percentage based upon three factors: total sales, total assets and total employees. This approach was used as we feel that it provides a reasonable indication of Predecessor corporate resource allocation to support the underlying businesses. Based on this approach, total corporate office costs of $6.8 million (64%) were allocated to the carved-out financial statements. While we believe this allocation methodology is reasonable, these allocated costs are not necessarily the actual costs that would have been incurred in the carved-out business, if it were a stand-alone entity during this period.
Translation of Foreign Currency: The local currency is the functional currency for our South American and Canadian subsidiaries and, as such, assets and liabilities are translated into U.S. dollars at year-end exchange rates. Income and expense items are translated at average exchange rates during the year.
Translation adjustments resulting from changes in exchange rates are reported in other comprehensive income. Gains or losses from foreign currency transactions are recognized in current earnings.
Fair Value of Financial Instruments: Our financial instruments consist primarily of cash equivalents, trade receivables, trade payables and debt instruments. The recorded values of cash equivalents, trade receivables and trade payables are considered to be representative of their respective fair values. Generally, our notes payable have interest rates which are tied to current market rates, and thus, their fair value is consistent with their recorded amounts.
Warranty Costs: We generally provide product and service warranties for periods of six months to 18 months. Based on historical experience and contract terms, we provide for the estimated cost of product and service warranties at the time of sale or, in some cases, when specific warranty problems are identified. Accrued warranty costs are adjusted periodically to reflect actual experience. Certain warranty and other related claims involve matters of dispute that ultimately may be resolved by negotiation, arbitration or litigation. Occasionally, a material warranty issue can arise that is beyond our historical experience. We provide for any such warranty issues as they become known and estimable.
Income Taxes: Prior to the SSSI Acquisition on January 23, 2006, federal and state income taxes of the business were reported within the consolidated operations of the Predecessor’s parent. For the purposes of the stand-alone presentation of the Predecessor, the provision for income taxes has been computed on the basis that the Predecessor files a separate consolidated income tax for the carved-out operation.
Note 3. Income Taxes
Subsequent to the SSSI Acquisition, income from the Successor is reported for federal and state income tax purposes (except for the Texas Margins tax and foreign taxes reported at the entity level) by our shareholders. During the year, we recognized $1.4 million of Texas Margins tax and $2.5 million of income tax associated with foreign jurisdictions. Generally, we will make quarterly distributions to the shareholders to fund their tax obligations. During Fiscal 2007 and Fiscal 2006, we made tax distributions of $20.3 million and $16.1 million to shareholders. No tax distributions were made in Fiscal 2005.
The provision for income taxes consisted of the following:
A reconciliation between the provision for income taxes and income taxes computed by applying the statutory rate is as follows:
Net Earnings Per Share: Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 128, “Earnings per Share” requires dual presentation of earnings per share (“EPS”): Basic EPS and Diluted EPS. Basic EPS is computed by dividing net earnings or loss applicable to common stockholders by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding for the period. For purposes of EPS, one unit is equivalent to one share. Diluted EPS excludes 530,000 contingent dilutive unvested restricted shares that would be considered common stock equivalents using the treasury stock method because as of January 31, 2008, the contingent condition had not occurred. See Item 11. - Equity Awards for a discussion of the outstanding restricted share grants.
The following table sets forth the computation of basic and diluted earnings per share of common units:
Note 4. Comprehensive Income
Total comprehensive income is as follows:
The local currency is the functional currency for the Company’s South American and Canadian subsidiaries and, as such, assets and liabilities are translated into U.S. dollars at the period end exchange rates. Income and expense items are translated at the average exchange rates during the period. Translation adjustments resulting from changes in exchange rates are reported in other comprehensive income. As of January 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, the entire accumulated and other comprehensive gain (loss) balance consisted of currency translation
adjustments. Net foreign currency exchange (gains) losses included in other (income) expense, net in the consolidated statements of operations were ($0.7) million, ($0.1) million and ($0.3) million during Fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively.
Note 5. Segment Data
Our reportable operating segments are based on the types of products and services offered and are aligned with our internal management structure. Inter-segment and intra-segment revenues and costs are eliminated, and the operating profit (loss) represents the earnings (loss) before interest and income taxes. The Crown results have been integrated into our existing segments and aligned with our internal management structure. As of February 26, 2007, total assets related to the Crown Acquisition were $122.5 million, and were primarily identified as part of our equipment segment. Certain reclasses were made to conform Fiscal 2006 segment data to the Fiscal 2007 presentation.
Our reportable segments include:
Equipment - This segment designs, manufactures and markets equipment for well stimulation, coiled tubing, cementing, nitrogen pumping, power generation and electrical systems as well as workover rigs, drilling rigs, service rigs and related equipment, serving the oil and gas industry. This segment also sells engines, transmissions and material handling equipment for well servicing, workover, drilling, pumping and other applications for a wide range of other industries.
Aftermarket Parts and Service - This segment provides aftermarket parts and service for products manufactured by the Company, and others, to customers in the oil and gas industry as well as customers in the power generation, marine, mining, construction, commercial vehicle and material handling industries.
Rental - This segment provides equipment on a short-term rental basis, including generators, material handling equipment and air compressors, to a wide range of end-markets.
Corporate - This segment includes administrative overhead normally not associated with the specific activities within the operating segments. Such expenses include legal, finance and accounting, internal audit, human resources, information technology and other similar corporate office costs.
Certain general and administrative costs which are incurred to support all operating segments are allocated to the segment operating results presented. Operating results by segment are as follows:
Geographic Information
Note 6. Long-Term Debt
Other debt: Other debt includes certain secured loans from our South American operations, a floor plan financing agreement and other equipment loans. The restricted cash on our balance sheet relates to collateral securing certain of this debt. The weighted average interest rate for the floor plan financing agreement was 6.0% and 8.2% in Fiscal 2007 and Fiscal 2006, respectively. The weighted average interest rate for the South American operations notes was 12.1% and 9.6% in Fiscal 2007 and Fiscal 2006, respectively.
Revolving Credit Facility: In February 2007, we amended our senior credit facility, increased the revolving facility to $250.0 million and added a $25.0 million sub-facility to be used by our Canadian subsidiary which we established as part of the Crown Acquisition. The amended $250.0 million revolving credit facility, which matures in February 2012, is secured by substantially all accounts receivable, inventory and property, plant and equipment and provides for borrowings at LIBOR plus a margin ranging from 1.25% to 2.00% per annum, based on our leverage ratios, as specified in the credit agreement. As of January 31, 2008, borrowings under the facility bear interest at LIBOR plus 1.5%, or 5.3%. A commitment fee of 0.30% to 0.375% per annum is payable on all unused portions of the revolving credit facility based on our leverage ratios. Interest payments are due monthly, or as LIBOR contracts expire. The revolving credit facility also has a $30.0 million sub-facility which may be used for letters of credit. As of January 31, 2008, there were $16.7 million of letters of credit outstanding. Based on the outstanding and letters of credit issued at January 31, 2008, approximately $85.6 million of borrowings were available under the revolving credit facility.
Unsecured Senior Notes: During the second quarter of Fiscal 2006, we issued $150.0 million of senior unsecured notes, bearing interest at 10% per annum and maturing in July, 2014. The net proceeds from the issuance of the notes were applied to pay off the outstanding term loans and reduce the borrowings under the revolving credit facility. In connection with the senior notes issued in July, 2006, we entered into a registration rights agreement which required us to make reasonable best efforts to file a registration statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission and effect a registered exchange offer in respect of the senior notes. We filed a registration statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission on February 2, 2007 and received clearance to effect the exchange offer on July 25, 2007. As per the terms of the indenture, the senior notes became subject to an escalated rate of 10.5% as of July 1, 2007, which remained in effect until August 22, 2007 when the registration of the notes and the related exchange were completed. On August 22, 2007 the senior notes reverted back to an interest rate of 10.0%. The escalated interest rate did not have a material impact on Fiscal 2007 results.
The credit facility and the senior note indenture contain financial and operating covenants with which we must comply during the terms of the agreements. These covenants include the maintenance of certain financial ratios, restrictions related to the incurrence of certain indebtedness and investments, and prohibition of the creation of certain liens. We are in compliance with all covenants as of January 31, 2008.
We incurred $3.3 million of capitalized legal and financing charges associated with establishing the original $250.0 million senior credit facility, which are to be amortized over the five year term of the facility. As a result of the amendment reducing the facility to $125.0 million in June 2006, we recorded a $1.5 million non-cash charge during the second quarter of Fiscal 2006 as interest expense. We also incurred $5.1 million of capitalized legal and financing charges associated with the issuance of the $150.0 senior unsecured notes during the second quarter of Fiscal 2006. These costs are to be amortized over the eight year term of the notes. During the first quarter of Fiscal 2007, we incurred $2.2 million of capitalized legal and financing costs associated with the February 2007 amendment to the senior credit facility. As of January 31, 2008, $8.8 million of unamortized costs are included in the balance sheet.
Guarantor entities: The $150.0 million of senior unsecured notes and the $250.0 million senior secured credit facility are fully guaranteed by Stewart & Stevenson LLC and its subsidiaries, except one domestic subsidiary, one subsidiary in Canada and two subsidiaries in South America.
The following condensed consolidated financial statements present separately the financial position, results of operations and cash flows of the parent guarantor (Guarantor Entities), and all non-guarantor subsidiaries of the Company on a combined basis.
Condensed Consolidating Balance Sheet
Condensed Consolidated Results of Operations
Condensed Consolidated Cash Flows
Note 7. Discontinued Operations
In Fiscal 2005, the Predecessor also sold the operating assets and business of four distribution locations in California and recorded a loss of $1.8 million, net of tax benefit. All assets and obligations related to these businesses were retained by the Predecessor in the sale to us. Therefore, these exited businesses had no impact on our operating results in Fiscal 2006.
Note 8. Guarantees and Contingencies
A summary of warranty activity associated with continuing operations for the periods ended January 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 follows:
Note 9. - Significant Balance Sheet Accounts
Allowance for Doubtful Accounts: Activity in the allowance for doubtful accounts is as follows:
Inventories: Summarized below are the components of inventories:
The inventory balances above are net of inventory valuation allowances of $12.3 million and $9.3 million at January 31, 2008 and January 31, 2007, respectively. Raw materials and spare parts include OEM equipment and components used in the equipment segment. Approximately $39.9 million of the increase in inventory is attributable to the Crown Acquisition.
Contracts in Process: Recoverable costs and accrued profits not yet billed primarily relate to oilfield service equipment projects which extend beyond two fiscal quarters. Amounts included in the financial statements which relate to recoverable costs and accrued profits not yet billed on contracts in process are classified as current assets. Billings on uncompleted contracts in excess of incurred costs and accrued profits are classified as current liabilities. Progress billings on contracts are made in accordance with the terms and conditions of the contracts, which often differ from the revenue recognition process. A summary of the status of uncompleted contracts is as follows:
Property, Plant and Equipment: As a result of the SSSI Acquisition, the components of property, plant and equipment were revalued based upon fair market value at date of purchase. Additions to property, plant and equipment during Fiscal 2006 include $2.4 million of reimbursements to the principle shareholder for certain office improvements and the original cost of a fractional interest in two jet aircraft. Components of property, plant and equipment, net, are as follows:
In Fiscal 2007, we exercised the purchase option for the Houston manufacturing facility from the Predecessor for approximately $8.7 million. As part of the Crown Acquisition, we entered into lease agreements with the seller and were granted an option, exercisable by July 2008, to purchase the leased facilities.
Depreciation expense was $11.4 million, $10.2 million and $13.0 million in Fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively.
Rental equipment includes forklift equipment, generator sets and other equipment that is leased to customers under operating lease arrangements with terms ranging from one month up to three years. Rental equipment is depreciated over its estimated useful life, and is occasionally transferred into finished goods inventory for resale to customers.
Intangible Assets & Goodwill: Amounts allocated to intangible assets are amortized on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives. Intangible asset values, net of recognized amortization expense include the following:
Total amortization expense for the next five years is expected to be $9.0 million.
The following table presents goodwill as of the dates indicated, as well as changes in the account during the period shown.
For Canadian tax purposes, 75% of goodwill is expected to be deductible. Substantially all of the goodwill relates to the equipment segment.
Note 10. Equity
On September 5, 2007, we completed a 15,000 to 1 split of our 6,667 common units into 100,005,000 common units. The financial statements give a retroactive effect to this split.
Stewart & Stevenson LLC is a limited liability company, therefore, U.S. federal and certain state taxes are paid by the holders of our equity interests. As a limited liability company, the common interest holders’ liability is limited to the capital invested in the Company. In connection with the SSSI Acquisition, a $70 million capital contribution was made by the shareholders. The contribution included $5 million of common voting interests ($1,000 per unit), along with $65 million of preferred interests ($1,000 per unit). The preferred interests were non-voting and entitled the shareholder to annual distributions of available earnings equal to 8.0% of the preferred interest investment. On November 21, 2006, all outstanding units of preferred equity were converted into 25,005,000 units of common equity.
Stock-Based Compensation: In December 2004, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123 (revised 2004), “Share-Based Payment” (“SFAS No. 123R”), which replaces SFAS No. 123 and supersedes APB Opinion No. 25, “Accounting For Stock Issued to Employees.” SFAS No. 123R requires all share-based payments to employees, including grants of employee stock options, to be recognized in the financial statements based on their fair values beginning with the first interim period in Fiscal 2006. We adopted SFAS No. 123R on February 1, 2006. Accordingly, all share-based compensation is recorded based on the fair value at the date of the award and expensed over the vesting period.
During Fiscal 2006, our principal shareholder sold common units equal to 1% of common equity to our president and chief operating officer and 3.25% of common equity to our former vice chairman and chief executive officer, subject to repurchase rights that expired over established vesting periods beginning January 23, 2006. During the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2006, the vice chairman and chief executive officer resigned and all equity was repurchased by the principal shareholder, including the vested portion which was repurchased at fair market value. In accordance with SFAS No. 123R, we recorded a $3.7 million non-cash charge in Fiscal 2006 reflecting the difference between estimated fair market value of the common units sold and their sales price to our executives. The estimated fair market value of the common units was determined based on a valuation provided by a third party valuation firm. We recorded an additional $444,000 during the Fiscal Year ended January 31, 2008 of non-cash compensation associated with the remaining vesting of the equity sold to our president and chief operating officer.
On September 5, 2007, our board of directors adopted the 2007 Incentive Compensation Plan (“Incentive Plan) and the Incentive Plan received the required approval of a majority of our unit holders and became effective on September 27, 2007. In connection with the adoption and approval of the Incentive Plan, the compensation committee of the board, which has the responsibility to administer the Incentive Plan, made certain grants of restricted shares to our non-executive directors (Ms. Ansary and Messrs. Carlucci, Crystal, Kemp, Macomber, Solarz and Zarb) and certain members of our senior executive management (Messr. Hargrave and Merecka). The grants to the seven non-executive directors consist of 60,000 restricted shares vesting in five (5) 12,000 share tranches, with each such tranche vesting upon board service for a complete fiscal year. The above-listed directors, other than Mr. Zarb, completed their second fiscal year of board service on January 31, 2008. Mr. Zarb completed his first fiscal year of service on that date. If a director shall serve for only part of a fiscal year, the tranche of restricted shares that would be vested at the end of such fiscal year shall vest pro rata, based on the number of days served. The grant to Mr. Hargrave consists of 60,000 restricted shares vesting in five (5) 12,000 share tranches, with each tranche vesting upon employment for a complete fiscal year. The grant to Mr. Merecka consists of 50,000 restricted shares vesting in five (5) 10,000 share tranches, with each such tranche vesting upon employment for a complete fiscal year. Mr. Merecka completed his second fiscal year of service on January 31, 2008. The latter two grants are subject to the achievement of net pre-tax income growth in the relevant fiscal year that exceeds the median net pre-tax income growth of a peer group of companies consisting of Schlumberger, Ltd., National Oilwell Varco, Inc., Weatherford International Ltd., Cameron International Corp., and BJ Services Company. One-time, non-recurring, non-operational gains or charges to income taken by us or any member of the designated peer group that are publicly reported will be excluded. The latter two grants are also subject to acceleration in the case of an executive’s death or disability. All grants are subject to (i) the completion of an initial public equity offering and (ii) accelerating vesting upon a change-in-control of the Company. No expense was recognized during Fiscal 2007 for these grants because, as of January 31, 2008, the contingent condition had not occurred.
Note 11. Crown Acquisition
On February 26, 2007, we acquired substantially all of the operating assets and assumed certain liabilities of Crown for cash consideration of approximately $70.5 million. Crown, which was headquartered in Calgary, Alberta, Canada and had multiple U.S. operations, manufactured drilling, well servicing and workover rigs, stimulation equipment and a provided related parts and services. The acquisition enhanced our position as a leading supplier of well stimulation, coiled tubing, cementing, and nitrogen pumping equipment and expands our product offering to include drilling rigs and well workover and service rigs. Information relating to our results of operations for Fiscal 2006 and prior periods does not include the impact of the Crown Acquisition. Information relating to our results of operations for Fiscal 2007 includes the impact of the Crown Acquisition from February 26, 2007 to January 31, 2008.
The following table summarized the fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed at the date of the acquisition:
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined statement of operations for the fiscal years ended January 31, 2008 and January 31, 2007 gives effect to the February 26, 2007 consummation of the Crown Acquisition as if the transaction occurred on February 1, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The unaudited pro forma information is presented for illustration purposes only and is not necessarily indicative of results of operations which would actually have been reported had the combination been in effect during this period or which we might expect to report in the future.
Note 12. Employee Retirement Savings Plan
We sponsor an employee retirement savings plan (“Savings Plan”) which qualifies under Section 401(k) of the Internal Revenue Code. The Savings Plan is designed to provide eligible employees with an opportunity to make regular contributions into a long-term investment and savings program. Substantially all U.S. employees are eligible to participate in the Savings Plan beginning on the first full pay period after employment. We match employee contributions at the rate of 50% up to 6% of eligible earnings. We incurred expenses of $3.1 million and $2.2 million for Fiscal 2007 and 2006, respectively. In addition, the predecessor financial statements include allocations of expenses associated with its 401(k) savings plan of $2.1 million for Fiscal 2005.
Note 13. Recent Accounting Pronouncements
In June 2006, the FASB issued FASB Interpretation No. 48 “Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes, an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109” (“FIN 48”), This interpretation clarifies the accounting for uncertainty in income taxes recognized in an enterprise’s financial statements in accordance with FASB Statement No. 109, “Accounting for Income Taxes.” The interpretation prescribes a recognition threshold and measurement attribute for a tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return and also provides guidance on derecognition, classification, interest and penalties, accounting in interim periods, disclosure, and transition. The provisions of FIN 48 are effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2006. We are currently operating as a limited liability corporation and income is reported for tax purposes through our shareholders (except for the Texas Margins tax and foreign taxes reported at the entity level). Therefore, the adoption of FIN 48 on February 1, 2007 did not have a material impact on the consolidated financial position, cash flows and results of operations.
In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157, “Fair Value Measurements” (“SFAS 157”). SFAS 157 establishes a framework for fair value measurements in the financial statements by providing a single definition of fair value, provides guidance on the methods used to estimate fair value and increases disclosures about estimates of fair value. SFAS 157 is effective for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007. The adoption of SFAS 157 on February 1, 2008 is not expected to have a material impact on our consolidated financial position, cash flows and results of operations.
In February 2007, the FASB issued FAS No. 159, “The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities - Including an amendment of FASB Statement No. 115” (“SFAS 159”). This statement permits entities to choose to measure many financial instruments and certain other items at fair value. The objective is to improve financial reporting by providing entities with the opportunity to mitigate volatility in reported earnings caused by measuring related assets and liabilities differently without having to apply complex hedge accounting provisions. This statement is expected to expand the use of fair value measurement, which is consistent with the Board’s long-term measurement objectives for financial instruments. This statement is effective as of the beginning of an entity’s first fiscal year that begins after November 15, 2007. The adoption of SFAS 159 on February 1, 2008 is not expected to have a material impact on our consolidated financial position, cash flows and results of operations.
In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 141R, “Business Combinations,” (“SFAS 141R”). SFAS 141R provides guidance on how acquirers recognize and measure the consideration transferred, identifiable assets acquired, liabilities assumed, non-controlling interests and goodwill acquired in a business combination. SFAS 141R also expands required disclosures surrounding the nature and financial effects of business combinations. SFAS 141R is effective prospectively for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008. The adoption of SFAS 141R on February 1, 2009 is expected to impact certain aspects of our accounting for any future acquisitions or other business combinations which may be consummated, including the determination of fair values assigned to certain purchased assets and liabilities.
Note 14. Commitments and Contingencies
Operating Lease Commitments: We lease certain facilities and equipment from third parties under operating lease arrangements of varying terms. Under the terms of these operating lease arrangements, we are generally obligated to make monthly rental payments to the lessors, and include no further obligations at the end of the lease terms. If we elect to cancel or terminate a lease prior to the end of its term,
we are typically obligated to make all remaining lease payments. In certain cases, however, we are allowed to sublet the assets to another party. Total rent expense was $9.8 million, $4.7 million, and $6.0 million in Fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively.
Operating lease obligations as of January 31, 2008, with noncancelable lease terms in excess of one year are as follows (in thousands):
Note 15. Litigation
We are a defendant in a number of lawsuits relating to matters normally incident to our business. No individual case, or group of cases presenting substantially similar issues of law or fact, is expected to have a material effect on the manner in which we conduct our business or on our consolidated results of operations, financial position or liquidity. We maintain certain insurance policies that provide coverage for product liability and personal injury cases. We have established reserves that we believe to be adequate based on current evaluations and our experience in these types of claims situations. Nevertheless, an unexpected outcome or adverse development in any such case could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated results of operations in the period it occurs.
Note 16. Concentrations
Our principal distribution agreements, which account for a significant portion of total purchases, are generally non-exclusive agreements and are subject to early termination by the suppliers for a variety of causes. No assurance can be given that such distribution agreements will be renewed beyond their expiration dates. Any interruption in the supply of materials from the original manufacturers, or a termination of a distributor agreement, could have a material adverse effect on the results of operations.
We market our products and services throughout the world and are not dependent upon any single geographic region outside the United States. Substantially all of our long-lived assets are located in the United States. Our sales to countries outside the United States, including sales to U.S. customers for export, totaled $315.4 million, $116.6 million and $103.4 million in Fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. We are not dependent on any single customer and in Fiscal 2007, no single customer accounted for more than 4% of our total revenues. Our top 10 customers generated approximately 20% of our total revenues during Fiscal 2007.
Note 17. Quarterly Financial Information - Unaudited
EXHIBIT INDEX