ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
As of December 31, 2011, we owned one hundred percent of five properties and owned a portion of a sixth property, and have made three real estate-related investments, one of which is outstanding as of December 31, 2011. A description of our activities with respect to real property and real estate-related investments is presented below:
Underwood Project
On May 19, 2009, our affiliate, SPT Lake Elsinore Holding Co. LLC, closed on the purchase of real property constituting 543 single family residential lots, a 9.4 acre park and over 70 acres of open space on a total of 225 acres of unimproved land commonly referred to as tract 29835 located in the City of Menifee, Riverside County, California, commonly known as the “Underwood Project.” The purchase price was $1,650,000. The purchase was made pursuant to a Purchase and Sale Agreement and Joint Escrow Instructions, dated May 13, 2009 by and between SPT Lake Elsinore Holding Co. LLC as buyer, and U.S. Bank National Association, as seller. U.S. Bank National Association is not affiliated with the Company or any of its affiliates.
On August 31, 2010, SPT-Lake Elsinore Holding Co., LLC (“Borrower”) closed a closed a secured loan from Cardinal Investment Properties - Underwood, L.P. (“Lender”). The loan amount was $1,000,000 and was made pursuant to a loan agreement between SPT-Lake Elsinore Holding Co., LLC and Cardinal Investment Properties - Underwood, L.P. dated August 30, 2010. Cardinal Investment Properties - Underwood, L.P. is not affiliated with the Company or any of its affiliates.
The loan bore interest at a rate of twelve percent per annum, and had a maturity date in twenty-four months at which time all accrued and unpaid interest and principal was due in full. A non-refundable interest payment equal to the first year’s interest for the loan was prepaid out of the loan amount of the initial loan funding in the amount of $120,000. Thereafter, interest was due and payable quarterly, commencing on the date that was three months after the one-year anniversary of the disbursement date. An initial loan fee of five percent of the Loan amount, or $50,000, was payable to Lender upon the earliest to occur of (i) full repayment of the loan, (ii) a default by the Borrower under the loan, or (iii) the first anniversary date of the Loan. Borrower could extend the loan for up to two additional periods of six months, provided (i) Borrower was not in default at the time of the extension, (ii) Borrower gave written notice to Lender of its intent to extend no less than ten days prior to the then-current maturity date, (iii) Borrower made payment to Lender of a two percent loan extension fee, based on the then-outstanding loan balance, and (iv) Borrower made payment to Lender of any unpaid interest accrued under the loan. Interest accruing under the loan during an extension period shall be paid monthly in arrears.
The loan was secured by a deed of trust with assignment of rents in favor of Lender on property purchased by the Company on May 19, 2009. The Underwood property is comprised of five hundred forty-three unimproved residential lots in the City of Menifee, California. Borrower agreed to indemnify and hold harmless Lender from and against any and all indemnified costs directly or indirectly arising out of or resulting from any hazardous substance being present or released in, on or around, or potentially affecting, any part of the property securing the loan.
If Borrower failed to make any payment when required under the promissory note, Lender had the option to immediately declare all sums due and owing under the promissory note.
Borrower used the proceeds from this loan (i) to pay a delinquent special assessment from the Watson Road Community Facilities District, payable to the City of Buckeye in Arizona, in the approximate amount of $276,434, (ii) to make a $500,000 principal payment to AZPro Developments, Inc. as required under a secured promissory note in favor of AZPro Developments, Inc. This payment was originally due July 31, 2010 but was extended by one month to August 31, 2010, and (iii) for payment of other outstanding liabilities of the Company.
As undeveloped land, the Underwood Project was not an income-producing property. The purchase was made based upon the anticipated capital appreciation of the property.
On May 10, 2011, SPT-Lake Elsinore Holding Co., LLC, as seller, sold the Underwood Project to CV Communities, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company, as buyer, 543 single family residential lots, a 9.4 acre park, and over 70 acres of open space on a total of 225 acres of unimproved land commonly referred to as tract 29835 located in the City of Menifee, Riverside County, California, commonly known as the Underwood Project. The sale was made pursuant to a purchase and sale agreement and joint escrow instructions, dated March 10, 2011, as amended. The sales price was $4,500,000 in cash and SPT-Lake Elsinore Holding Co., LLC recognized a gain on the sale of this asset of approximately $2,401,000.
The sale provided liquidity to the Company in addition to paying off the $1,000,000 loan made to SPT-Lake Elsinore Holding Co., LLC by Cardinal Investment Properties - Underwood, LP, thereby reducing the Company’s overall liabilities.
Desert Moon Estates Property
On July 31, 2009, our affiliate, SPT AZ Land Holdings, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company and wholly owned subsidiary of our Operating Partnership, closed on the purchase of real property consisting of a final plat of 739 single family residential lots on a total of 200 acres of unimproved land commonly known as “Desert Moon Estates” located in the Town of Buckeye, Maricopa County, Arizona (the “Desert Moon Estates Property”). The purchase price was $3,000,000. The purchase was made pursuant to a Purchase and Sale Agreement and Joint Escrow Instructions, dated June 29, 2009 (the “Desert Moon Purchase Agreement”), by and between SPT AZ Holdings, LLC and AZPro Developments, Inc., an Arizona corporation. On July 28, 2009, SPT AZ Holdings, LLC and AZPro Developments, Inc. executed a First Amendment to Purchase and Sale Agreement and Joint Escrow Instructions modifying the terms of the original Desert Moon Purchase Agreement to provide for SPT AZ Holdings, LLC’s payment of the purchase price through a $2,000,000 Secured Promissory Note and Deed of Trust with Assignment of Rents.
In connection with the Desert Moon Purchase Agreement, SPT AZ Holdings, LLC executed a $2,000,000 Secured Promissory Note (the “Desert Moon Promissory Note”) in favor of AZPro Developments, Inc. Interest on the Desert Moon Promissory Note will accrue on the principal outstanding from the date of the Desert Moon Promissory Note at a rate of six percent (6.00%) per annum. Payments of interest only will be made quarterly in arrears on November 1, 2009, February 1, 2010 and May 1, 2010. On the maturity date of the Desert Moon Promissory Note, July 31, 2010, the entire outstanding principal balance and all unpaid interest on the Desert Moon Promissory Note will be due and payable in full. The Desert Moon Promissory Note is secured by a Deed of Trust with Assignment of Rents which encumbers the Desert Moon Estates Property. SPT AZ Holdings, LLC may prepay in whole or in part the principal amount outstanding under the Desert Moon Promissory Note, together with accrued and unpaid interest thereon computed to the date of prepayment and any sums owing to AZPro Developments, Inc., without penalty or premium.
If SPT AZ Holdings, LLC fails to pay any installment of interest by the fifth day of each calendar quarter, AZPro Developments, Inc. has the right to assess a late fee equal to 10% of the amount that is delinquent and the interest rate on the entire principal amount outstanding will adjust to 12% per annum from the date the delinquent payment was first due until the delinquent payment has been made. Similar penalties apply if the principal is not paid upon the maturity date.
On March 11, 2010, AZPro Developments, Inc. and SPT AZ Holdings, LLC executed a First Amendment to Secured Promissory Note which extended the current maturity date of the Desert Moon Promissory Note to July, 31, 2011 provided SPT AZ Holdings, LLC had made a principal reduction of $500,000 on or before the current maturity date of July 31, 2010 and all property taxes and CFD bond payments on the property are current. Additionally, SPT AZ Holdings, LLC agreed to a two percent increase in the original interest rate beginning on the original maturity date of July 31, 2010. The $500,000 principal pay down date of July 31, 2010 was extended to August 31, 2010. SPT AZ Holdings, LLC paid the principal pay down of $500,000 on September 2, 2010.
On July 31, 2011, AZPro Developments, Inc. and SPT AZ Holdings, LLC, executed an additional extension on the existing $2,000,000 secured promissory note as previously amended with AZPro Developments, Inc. A one year extension of the maturity date was granted to SPT AZ Holdings, LLC by AZPro Developments, Inc. in exchange for a principal pay down of $300,000 on or before the current maturity date of July 31, 2011. In addition to the principal pay down of $300,000 on or before the current maturity date of July 31, 2011, SPT AZ Holdings, LLC agreed to pay current, all project taxes including any special assessments. All other terms of the Desert Moon Promissory Note as amended remained unchanged. SPT AZ Holdings, LLC made the principal payment of $300,000 on August 5, 2011.
On January 13, 2011, the Company received a Notice of Potential Sale of Real Estate for Delinquent Special Assessment from the Watson Road Community Facilities District. This Notice was received when the Company failed to pay a required special assessment when due on December 1, 2010. On February 25, 2011, the Company received a Notice of Sale of Real Estate for Delinquent Special Assessment from the Watson Road Community Facilities District. Management paid this past due special assessment on March 29, 2011 and the City of Buckeye subsequently informed management that the Desert Moon Estates Property was in current status.
As undeveloped land, the Desert Moon Estates Property is not an income-producing property. The purchase was made based upon the anticipated capital appreciation of the property.
Springbrook Properties
On January 9, 2009, SPT Real Estate Finance, LLC, made two separate loans to Aware Development Company, Inc. (“Aware”), in the aggregate amount of $2,300,000. The loans to Aware were made pursuant to two promissory notes, which were secured by two separate collateral pledge agreements encumbering the following real property located in Riverside County, California:
·approximately 118 acres of vacant and unentitled land located near the City of Lake Elsinore, in an unincorporated area of Riverside County, California (the “Meadowbrook Project”); and
·approximately 6.11 acres of vacant and unentitled land located near the City of Lake Elsinore, in an unincorporated area of Riverside County, California (the “Coffman Project”).
The Meadowbrook Project and the Coffman Project are, collectively, the “Springbrook Properties.”
The making of the loans to Aware was a related party transaction in that, immediately prior to the loans being made, Aware purchased from Vineyard Bank two loans made by Vineyard Bank (the “Vineyard Loans”) to our affiliate Springbrook Investments, L.P. (“Springbrook”) whose general partner is a California corporation wholly owned by The Shopoff Revocable Trust dated August 12, 2004 (“Shopoff Trust”). William Shopoff is a co-trustee of the Shopoff Trust.
In lieu of payment of the Vineyard Loans, Aware assigned the Vineyard Loans to SPT Real Estate Finance, LLC. The assignment was completed and documented by two separate Memoranda of Assignment of Note, Deed of Trust and Loan Documents, each dated August 29, 2009.
At the time of the assignment of the Vineyard Loans to SPT Real Estate Finance, LLC, the Vineyard Loans were in default and all obligations of Springbrook were due and payable in full. Springbrook executed and delivered to SPT Real Estate Finance, LLC grant deeds to the Springbrook Properties, the underlying real estate collateral for the Vineyard Loans, in consideration for the discharge by SPT Real Estate Finance, LLC of all Springbrook’s obligations under the Vineyard Loans. On September 4, 2009, SPT Real Estate Finance, LLC took title to the Springbrook Properties and on September 24, 2009, SPT Real Estate Finance, LLC deeded the Springbrook Properties to our affiliate, SPT Lake Elsinore Holding Co., LLC.
We intend to hold the Springbrook Properties for the long-term for the purpose of capital appreciation and, accordingly, we have no current plans for improvement or development of the Springbrook Properties.
The Meadowbrook Project is an undeveloped property that is not anticipated to be developed until after 2015. The property is currently zoned rural residential, and a zone change, general plan amendment, and tentative map approval are necessary to achieve the entitlements being sought. As such, it is anticipated that the Meadowbrook Project will be developed after entitled or partially improved projects owned by others in the vicinity of the City of Lake Elsinore are developed. The Meadowbrook Project competes with nearby projects, such as Tentative Tract Maps 25475 (commonly known as Tuscany Crest) and 33725 (commonly known as Tuscany Valley), which consist of a total of approximately 355 single-family lots and are also owned by us. Other competition may come from nearby properties that obtain entitlements for residential development prior to the development of the Meadowbrook Project.
The Coffman Project is part of a proposed annexation, led by the City of Lake Elsinore, of a larger area of properties into the City of Lake Elsinore. The annexation is anticipated to occur concurrently with the update of the City of Lake Elsinore’s General Plan and Environmental Report (the “General Plan”). This update to the General Plan will provide for a change to the zoning of the property from commercial-industrial to multi-family/high-density residential development, allowing up to 18 units per acre. The annexation is anticipated to be completed in 2012, although the City of Lake Elsinore has not committed to a completion date for the annexation. Projects with which the Coffman Project may compete include a 126-unit multi-family project proposed by MBK Homes near the Coffman Project. Timing for the MBK Homes project is unknown.
Tuscany Valley Properties
On November 5, 2009, our affiliate, SPT-Lake Elsinore Holding Co.,(“SPTLE”), purchased real property commonly known as “Tuscany Valley,” consisting of (a) 519 entitled but unimproved residential lots and 2 commercial lots located in the City of Lake Elsinore, California (the “Lake Elsinore Property”), and (b) 400 acres of unentitled and unimproved land located in the City of Chino Hills, California (the “Chino Hills Property”). The combined purchase price for the Lake Elsinore Property and the Chino Hills Property was $9,600,000.
The purchase of the Lake Elsinore Property and the Chino Hills Property was made pursuant to a series of purchase agreements and amendments thereto that were entered into by the parties over the course of more than twelve months between September 30, 2008 and November 5, 2009 (collectively, the “Tuscany Valley Purchase Agreement”), by and between our Advisor and TSG Little Valley L. P., a California limited partnership (“Little Valley”).
Pursuant to the Tuscany Valley Purchase Agreement, Little Valley agreed to sell and our Advisor agreed to buy, 163 entitled but unimproved residential lots located in the City of Lake Elsinore, California. The contract purchase price was $4,890,000. On September 3, 2009, the Tuscany Valley Purchase Agreement was amended as follows: (a) SPTLE agreed to purchase additional property from Little Valley consisting of 356 entitled but unimproved, residential lots and 2 commercial lots located in the City of Lake Elsinore, California and 400 acres of unentitled and unimproved land located in the City of Chino Hills, California, (b) the purchase price was increased to $9,600,000 from $4,890,000, (c) the nonrefundable deposit requirement was increased to $2,000,000 from $1,000,000, and (d) the escrow closing date was amended to on or before November 30, 2009. In addition, ourAdvisor assigned all of its rights, title and interest in the Tuscany Valley Purchase Agreement to SPTLE.
Of the total purchase price, $2,900,000 was paid by SPTLE’s execution and delivery of (a) an all-inclusive purchase money note secured by deed of trust (“Tuscany Promissory Note”) in favor of Little Valley, in the principal amount of $2,900,000, and (b) an all-inclusive deed of trust executed by SPTLE in favor of Little Valley, as beneficiary therein, securing the Tuscany Promissory Note. The Tuscany Promissory Note bore interest at a rate of twelve percent per annum, and was payable in full on November 6, 2010. No payments were due during the term of the Tuscany Promissory Note. The Tuscany Promissory Note included the unpaid balance of another promissory note made on April 3, 2006, in the original principal amount of $2,000,000, payable by Seller to 1st Centennial Bank (the “Included Note”). The Included Note was secured by a deed of trust encumbering a portion of the Lake Elsinore Property. The outstanding principal balance on the Included Note as of November 3, 2009 was approximately $1,750,000. The current payee under the Included Note was Multibank 2009-1 CRE Venture, LLC.
Even though the Tuscany Promissory Note was all-inclusive, if Little Valley failed to pay any installments when due upon the Included Note, SPTLE had retained the right to make such payments directly to payee of the Included Note, and the amount so paid shall be credited against the next following installment or installments due under the Tuscany Promissory Note. If SPTLE failed to make any payment when required under the Tuscany Promissory Note, Little Valley had the option to immediately declare all sums due and owing under the Tuscany Promissory Note.
On March 5, 2010, Little Valley and SPTLE executed a First Amendment to Secured Promissory Note which extended the current maturity date of the Tuscany Promissory Note to November, 6, 2011 provided SPTLE had made a principal reduction of at least $500,000 on or before the current maturity date of November 6, 2010. Additionally, SPTLE agreed to a two percent increase in the original interest rate beginning on the original maturity date of November 6, 2010. As of December 31, 2010, a principal pay down of $991,584 had been made on the Tuscany Promissory Note.
On October 26, 2010, SPTLE deeded the Chino Hills Property to a newly created limited liability company, SPT - Chino Hills, LLC which is 100% owned by the Operating Partnership and therefore its accounts are consolidated in the Company’s financial statements. The purpose of this transfer was to remove from SPTLE property that was not located in the Lake Elsinore California submarket.
On November 10, 2010, the Company received a Notice of Default And Election To Sell Under Deed of Trust (or “Notice”) from First American Title Insurance Company. This Notice was received when Little Valley failed to pay the outstanding principal balance to Multibank 2009-1 CRE Venture, LLC, the current payee (“Lender”) under the Included Note. Prior to receiving this Notice, representatives of Little Valley had been in discussions and ongoing negotiations with Lender regarding the Included Note with the intent of renegotiating the terms of or reaching a settlement on the Included Note. These discussions and ongoing negotiations were unsuccessful and Little Valley and the Company received the Notice. The Company, when it purchased the Tuscany Valley properties in November 2009, took ownership through a seller financed all-inclusive promissory note and deed of trust in favor of Little Valley that included the Lender note. The Company did not received a formal demand from Little Valley for payment to Lender. If Little Valley or the Company had failed to reach a resolution with Lender, the Company could have lost a portion of the Tuscany Valley properties (approximately 163 of the 519 lots). Management was in discussions with Little Valley regarding the Notice and believed that a satisfactory resolution would be reached prior to the completion of the foreclosure process, which was a minimum of 120 days from Notice recordation, or November 5, 2010. After January 30, 2011, Lender had the right to file a Notice of Sale.
On April 28, 2011, upon a request from Little Valley, the Company made a $100,000 interest payment to Little Valley.
On May 12, 2011, the Company paid all outstanding principal and interest due on the Tuscany Valley properties note payable to Little Valley, (to and including the Included Note), and in return for payment, a full release and reconveyance was executed by Little Valley, and documentation was received from the Lender confirming payoff of the Included Note.
On May 13, 2011, SPTLE, as seller, sold to Richland Communities Inc, a Florida corporation, as buyer, the Tuscany West portion of the larger Tuscany Valley properties (164 of 519 entitled but unimproved residential lots and 2 commercial lots), commonly referred to as tract 25473 located in the City of Lake Elsinore, California. The sale was made pursuant to a purchase and sale agreement and joint escrow instructions, dated March 23, 2011, as amended. The sales price was $1,800,000 in cash and SPTLE recognized a loss on the sale of this asset of approximately $21,500.
This sale provided liquidity to the Company which was used with other cash to pay outstanding Company liabilities including the payoff of an existing Company notes payable in the approximate principal amount of $1,908,000, thereby reducing the Company’s overall liabilities.
Stevan J. Gromet, President of Portfolio Partners, Inc., a California corporation, the general partner o	f Little Valley, is a shareholder of the Company with ownership of 11,000 shares as of December 31, 2011, which represents approximately 0.53% of our total shares outstanding including 21,100 shares purchased by our sponsor, 70,000 vested restricted stock grants issued to our officers and directors, and 61,100 shares of our common stock issued to certain accredited investors in a private placement as part of the consideration for the acquisition of land.
Thru June 30, 2011, Little Valley was a shareholder of the Company with ownership of 14,900 shares, which represented approximately 0.74% of the Company’s total shares outstanding including 21,100 shares purchased by our sponsor and 71,250 vested restricted stock grants issued to our officers and directors. In August 2011, Little Valley distributed its 14,900 shares to a limited partner and as of December 31, 2011, no longer had any ownership in the Company.
As undeveloped land, the Tuscany Valley properties are not income-producing properties. The purchase was made based upon the anticipated capital appreciation of the property.
See Note 9 of the notes to consolidated financial statements for more information.
Vantage Point Property
On November 18, 2011, an affiliate of Shopoff Properties Trust, Inc., SPT-Vantage Point, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company (“SPTVP”), closed on the purchase of real property consisting of a 47.9 acre parcel of land zoned commercial/retail and multi-family residential, which currently permits 306 residential units and 25 acres of retail land commonly known as “Vantage Point” located in the Town of Parker, Douglas County, Colorado.
The purchase was made pursuant to an Agreement to Purchase and Sell Interest In Contract to Buy and Sell Real Estate (the “Vantage Point Agreement”), dated September 7, 2011, by and between SPTVP and Steven F. Dallman (“Dallman”). Under the Vantage Point Agreement, Dallman agreed to sell to SPTVP all of its rights and obligations under an existing real estate contract (a certain Contract to Buy and Sell Real Estate, dated June 14, 2011, as amended (the “Original Agreement”)), and an escrow agreement between Dallman and Lundieck Investments, Ltd. This Vantage Point Agreement allowed SPTVP to purchase the Vantage Point property. The purchase price for the Vantage Point property was $4,900,000, comprised of $1,650,000 paid to Dallman and $3,250,000 paid to Lundieck Investments, Ltd. On October 21, 2011, SPTVP and Dallman executed a first amendment to the Vantage Point Agreement to extend the due diligence time frame for SPTVP. On October 28, 2011, SPTVP and Dallman executed a second amendment to the Vantage Point Agreement to provide for SPTVP’s payment of the purchase price through a $1,100,100 Second Lien Promissory Note (defined below) and a second lien Deed of Trust. As part of the Original Agreement, Lundieck Investments, Ltd. accepted as part of SPTVP’s payment of the purchase price, a $2,600,000 First Lien Promissory Note and Deed of Trust (defined below).
As part of the overall purchase price, Dallman agreed to accept 61,100 shares of the Company’s common stock at $9 per share (total of $549,900), as part of the overall consideration required to close this proposed acquisition.
Shopoff Partners, L.P., an affiliate of the Company, is a member and the manager of SPT-Vantage Point, LLC. Shopoff Partners, L.P.’s ownership percentage of SPT-Vantage Point, LLC is dependent on the level of capital contributed to SPT-Vantage Point, LLC and is anticipated to change as the Company contemplates the use of additional joint venture partners to fund a majority of the cash required for this project. Currently one such joint venture partner is an entity that is affiliated with the Company, our Advisor, and Sponsor.
Dallman and Lundieck Investments, Ltd. are not affiliated with the Company or any of its affiliates.
In connection with the Vantage Point Agreement, SPTVP executed two first lien promissory notes (the “First Lien Promissory Notes”) in favor of Lundieck Investments, Ltd. which in aggregate totaled $2,600,000. One First Lien Promissory Note (the “Tracts A and B Promissory Note”), is in the amount of $1,405,560. The second First Lien Promissory Note (the “Tracts C and D Promissory Note”) is in the amount of $1,194,440. Interest on both First Lien Promissory Notes accrues on the principal outstanding from the date of the First Lien Promissory Note at a rate of five and one-half percent (5.50%) per annum with interest paid semi-annually on the semi-annual and annual anniversary dates of the First Lien Promissory Notes. SPTVP agreed to pay a principal pay down of $135,150 on the first through fifth anniversary dates of the First Lien Promissory Note for the Tract A and B Promissory Note. SPTVP agreed to pay a principal pay down of $114,850 on the first through fifth anniversary dates of the Note for the Tract C and D First Lien Promissory Note. On the maturity date of the two First Lien Promissory Notes, November 14, 2017, the entire outstanding principal balance and all unpaid interest on the two First Lien Promissory Notes will be due and payable in full. The two First Lien Promissory Notes are secured by two first lien Deeds of Trust which encumber separate portions of the Vantage Point property. SPTVP may prepay in whole or in part the principal amount outstanding under the two First Lien Promissory Notes, together with accrued and unpaid interest thereon computed to the date of prepayment and any sums owing to Lundieck Investments, Ltd., without penalty or premium.
If SPTVP fails to pay any installment of principal or interest when due, SPTVP will be considered in default and the First Lien Promissory Notes will thereafter bear interest at the rate of twelve percent (12%) per annum.
In connection with the Vantage Point Agreement, SPTVP also executed a $1,100,100 second lien promissory note (the “Second Lien Promissory Note”) in favor of Dallman. Interest on the Second Lien Promissory Note will accrue on the principal outstanding from the date of the Second Lien Promissory Note at a rate of six percent (6.00%) per annum for the first ninety days of the note term and at nine percent (9.00%) thereafter. On the maturity date of the Second Lien Promissory Note, 180 days from the close of escrow, the entire outstanding principal balance and all unpaid interest on the Second Lien Promissory Note will be due and payable in full. The Second Lien Promissory Note is secured by a second lien Deed of Trust which encumbers the entire Vantage Point property. SPTVP may prepay in whole or in part the principal amount outstanding under the Second Lien Promissory Note, together with accrued and unpaid interest thereon computed to the date of prepayment and any sums owing to Dallman, without penalty or premium.
If SPTVP fails to pay any installment of principal or interest when due, SPTVP will be considered in default and the principal and all accrued interest will thereafter bear interest at the rate of eighteen percent (18%) per annum until paid in full.
As undeveloped land, the Vantage Point property is not an income-producing property. The purchase was made based upon the anticipated capital appreciation of the property.
We also owned the following real estate-related investment as of December 31, 2011:
Mesquite Venture I, LLC - $600,000 Secured Loan
On September 30, 2008, we originated, through SPT Real Estate Finance, LLC, an affiliated entity 100% owned by the Operating Partnership (“SPT Real Estate Finance”), one real estate loan of $600,000. Mesquite Venture I, LLC was the borrower. The loan is a second position lien behind a $3,681,000 first position lien. The term of the loan was nine months and bore interest at an annual rate of 14%. The loan was secured by a second deed of trust, assignment of rents and security agreement encumbering real property situated in the City of Mesquite. This real estate loan was recorded as a note receivable with $63,000 of prepaid interest netted against the note balance on our consolidated balance sheet.
On or about June 30, 2009, SPT Real Estate Finance agreed to extend the maturity date of its secured note with Mesquite Venture I, LLC from June 30, 2009 to May 15, 2010. In consideration of this loan extension, Mesquite Venture I, LLC agreed to pay a loan extension fee of five percent of the outstanding principal balance or $30,000 payable as follows: $10,000 upon execution of the secured note extension, $10,000 on October 1, 2009 and $10,000 on January 1, 2010. Mesquite Venture I, LLC also agreed to make a $10,000 payment on April 1, 2010, which was to be applied against accrued and unpaid interest. Interest accrued on the outstanding principal balance at an annual rate of fourteen percent and all accrued and unpaid interest and principal became due and payable in full at the new maturity date of May 15, 2010.
On or about October 12, 2009, SPT Real Estate Finance was informed that on September 28, 2009 a Notice of Default and Election to Sell Under Deed of Trust (“NOD”) was recorded on behalf of East West Bank, as beneficiary (“East West Bank”), with respect to the first position lien securing certain obligations of Mesquite Venture I, LLC to East West Bank, including without limitation indebtedness under a Promissory Note in the initial principal amount of $3,681,000 (the "Senior Loan"). The NOD was filed due to Mesquite Venture I, LLC’s failure to pay the August 1, 2009 installment of principal and interest and all subsequent installments of principal and interest under the Senior Loan.
A default on our secured note was triggered when Mesquite Venture I, LLC failed to make their $10,000 loan extension fee payment due on October 1, 2009. Mesquite Venture I, LLC subsequently failed to make their $10,000 loan extension fee payment due on January 1, 2010.
On December 24, 2009, an entity controlled by one of the original guarantors of the aforementioned Senior Loan, entered into a Mortgage Loan Sale Agreement whereby the holder of the Senior Loan, East West Bank, agreed to sell to PLQ Mesquite Investors, LLC (Paul J. Giuntini, one of the original guarantors of the Senior Loan is manager of PLQ Mesquite Investors, LLC), the $3,681,000 mortgage note together with all of East West Bank’s interest in and to any of Mesquite Venture I, LLC’s property held by East West Bank, all collateral and any guarantees obtained in connection with the $3,681,000 note. On December 30, 2009, East West Bank officially assigned to PLQ Mesquite Investors, LLC, the beneficial interest under the Deed of Trust, Security Agreement, Assignment of Rents & Fixture Filing dated as of June 26, 2006, made by Mesquite Venture I, LLC as trustor, for the benefit of East West Bank, as beneficiary and recorded June 26, 2006. Mesquite Venture I, LLC cured its first lien position default upon the purchase, by PLQ Mesquite Investors, LLC, of the $3,681,000 mortgage note from East West Bank as PLQ Mesquite Investors, LLC’s manager, was also a guarantor on the $3,681,000 mortgage note with East West Bank.
Mesquite Venture I, LLC and our Advisor agreed that if Mesquite Venture I, LLC paid (i) all past due payments required as outlined in the extension agreement, (ii) the April 1, 2010 payment of $10,000, and (iii) reimburses SPT Real Estate Finance $10,000 for attorney’s fees incurred due to Mesquite Venture I, LLC’s failure to make timely payments as outlined in the extension agreement, SPT Real Estate Finance would consider Mesquite Venture I, LLC reinstated and would not pursue the guarantees from Mesquite Venture I, LLC and would no longer demand payment in full on their secured note. The total amount due from Mesquite Venture I, LLC was $40,000.
On March 4, 2010, Mesquite Venture I, LLC paid SPT Real Estate Finance the negotiated $40,000, representing (i) the past due loan fee payments of $10,000 each due on October 1, 2009 and January 1, 2010, (ii) the April 1, 2010 payment of $10,000, and (iii) $10,000 for attorney’s fees incurred by SPT Real Estate Finance due to non-payment on behalf of Mesquite Venture I, LLC. Mesquite Venture I, LLC was then deemed reinstated by SPT Real Estate Finance.
This note matured on May 15, 2010; however SPT Real Estate Finance, LLC did not receive payment in full as agreed to by Mesquite Venture I, LLC. Management began discussions with Mesquite Venture I, LLC regarding their matured $600,000 promissory note with SPT Real Estate Finance, LLC and on or about August 13, 2010, management and Mesquite Venture I, LLC documented and executed a reinstatement and modification agreement whereby management (i) granted an extension to Mesquite Venture I, LLC resulting in a new maturity date of January 15, 2011, (ii) agreed to waive extension fees relating to the modification, (iii) agreed the interest rate during the extension period would be 14%, (iv) added all accrued and unpaid interest through the date of the reinstatement and modification to the outstanding principal balance of the promissory note, (v) agreed during the extension period, Mesquite Venture I, LLC would make monthly payments of $5,000 towards accrued and unpaid interest, and (vi) agreed Mesquite Venture I, LLC would provide additional collateral, specifically fifty percent (50%) of one guarantors ownership position in Silvertip Resort Village, LLC, a limited liability company whose primary purpose is real estate investment and which currently owns an option on a hotel site in northern California.
As of December 31, 2010, Mesquite Venture I, LLC had failed to make its December 2010, $5,000 monthly payment towards accrued and unpaid interest as required under the reinstatement and modification agreement. Due to the failure by Mesquite Venture I, LLC to make its December 2010 monthly payment, Mesquite Venture I, LLC was in default under the terms of its reinstatement and modification agreement.
The secured note to Mesquite Venture I, LLC matured on January 15, 2011 and SPT Real Estate Finance, LLC did not receive payment in full as required by Mesquite Venture I, LLC. The Company sent a demand letter to the guarantors on the Mesquite loan on January 20, 2011 indicating that if payment was not received within 10 days the Company intended to immediately pursue collection. The due date on the demand letter passed without payment from Mesquite Venture I, LLC. Management began discussions with (i) Mesquite Venture I, LLC regarding their matured $600,000 promissory note with SPT Real Estate Finance, LLC, and (ii) Company legal counsel regarding options available to the Company regarding collection of the outstanding receivable.
On July 14, 2011, an entity controlled by one of the original guarantors of the secured note to Mesquite Ventures I, LLC, which entity owns a property known as the Silvertip Resort Village, was placed into bankruptcy by this original guarantor to avoid a pending foreclosure. Prior to the bankruptcy filing the Company was notified of the pending filing by this same original guarantor. On August 13, 2010, when management and Mesquite Venture I, LLC documented and executed a reinstatement and modification agreement, Mesquite Venture I, LLC provided additional collateral, specifically fifty percent (50%) of one guarantors ownership position in Silvertip Resort Village, LLC, a limited liability company whose primary purpose is real estate investment and which currently owns an option on the Silvertip Resort Village hotel site in northern California. The option agreement is held by an entity affiliated with Silvertip Resort Village, LLC. Management has been in discussions with Company legal counsel regarding this recent bankruptcy filing and its impact on the Company’s collection efforts on the Mesquite Ventures I, LLC secured note.
On August 12, 2011, Company legal counsel filed suit against the guarantors of the Mesquite Ventures I, LLC secured note for collection of all outstanding principal, interest, and other expenses owed to the Company. As of December 31, 2011 this litigation is still ongoing.
ITEM 3.