ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
As of December 31, 2010, we owned six properties, two of which have been designated as held for sale, and have made three real estate-related investments, one real estate-related investment of which is outstanding as of December 31, 2010. A description of our activities with respect to real property and real estate-related investments is presented below:
Wasson Canyon Project
On April 17, 2009, our affiliate, SPT Lake Elsinore Holding Co., LLC, a Delaware limited liability company and wholly owned subsidiary of our Operating Partnership, closed on the purchase of real property constituting sixty five (65) finished residential lots located in the City of Lake Elsinore, Riverside County, California, commonly known as Wasson Canyon for the purchase price of $650,000. The purchase was made pursuant to a Purchase and Sale Agreement and Joint Escrow Instructions, dated April 14, 2009, or the Wasson Purchase Agreement, by and between SPT Lake Elsinore Holding Co., LLC and MS Rialto Wasson Canyon CA, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company. Pursuant to the Wasson Purchase Agreement, SPT Lake Elsinore Holding Co., LLC agreed to replace existing subdivision improvement agreements and related bonds within 180 days of the closing and executed a deed of trust in the amount of $650,000 securing this obligation. This obligation is customary in transactions of this type. Other than the performance Deed of Trust described herein, there are no mortgages or encumbrances recorded against the project.
On February 3, 2010, SPT Lake Elsinore Holding Co (“SPTLE”) sold the Wasson Canyon Project to D. R. Horton Los Angeles Holding Co. Inc, (“DRH”) pursuant to a Purchase and Sale Agreement and Joint Escrow Instructions, dated December 8, 2009, as amended, for the sales price of $2,231,775 in cash.
On February 3, 2010, DRH and SPTLE executed a participation agreement (the “Participation Agreement”) in which DRH agreed to pay to SPTLE, in addition to the sales price, fifty percent (50%) of any gross profit that exceeds a twenty four percent (24%) gross profit margin on the sale of units to be developed on the lots purchased by the DRH.
Pursuant to the Sale Agreement, DRH did not assume SPTLE’s obligation to replace existing subdivision improvement agreements (the “SIA's”) and related bonds (the “Bonds”) which SPTLE agreed to replace when SPTLE originally purchased the property on April 17, 2009 from MS Rialto Wasson Canyon CA, LLC.
In connection with the Sale Agreement for the Wasson Canyon Project, SPTLE agreed to maintain its obligation to replace existing SIA's with the City of Lake Elsinore and the County of Riverside, California relating to the construction of certain in-tract subdivision improvements, off-site improvements and, with respect to the common area (lettered lots), landscape improvements ( collectively, the “Improvements”), and in support of the SIA’s, SPTLE agreed to post the Bonds with the City of Lake Elsinore and the County of Riverside, California.
In the process of satisfying its obligation to replace existing SIA’s, which SPTLE agreed to replace when SPTLE originally purchased the property on April 17, 2009, SPTLE agreed to provide letters of credit to the surety underwriting the Bonds to satisfy the surety’s collateral requirement which was an amount equal to fifty percent (50%) of the Bond amounts or $305,889, $130,102 which was issued on January 6, 2010 and $175,787 which was issued on February 8, 2010.
On November 2, 2010, SPT - Lake Elsinore Holding Co., LLC received notice from the County of Riverside, Transportation And Land Management Agency, that a notice of completion was issued for Miscellaneous Case 4036 (Tract 31792 in the City of Lake Elsinore) on July 27, 2010. This notice of completion resulted in a 90% security release on an existing Faithful Performance Bond and a 100% security release on an existing Material and Labor Bond previously obtained by SPT - Lake Elsinore Holding Co., LLC. Due to the reduction in the total amount of outstanding bonds, management was successful in reducing the surety’s collateral requirements and ultimately gained the release of approximately $225,375 of the original total of $305,889 in letters of credit provided to the surety underwriting the bonds. This reduction of required letters of credit by the surety underwriting the bonds resulted in a release to the Company of approximately $225,375 in restricted cash.
SPTLE has finished processing Bond reductions and has completed the replacement of all Bonds originally posted by MS Rialto Wasson Canyon CA, LLC.
DRH agreed to reimburse SPTLE for the actual amount of premiums for the Bonds incurred by SPTLE commencing on the later of (i) the date of the close of escrow and (ii) the date Bond reductions are completed. DRH's obligation to reimburse SPTLE for the actual amount of the premiums will continue until DRH has completed certain adjacent Improvement obligations.
DRH agreed to assume the obligation for typical repair and replacement of the Improvements immediately adjacent to the lots as required by the SIA’s to the extent the Improvements are damaged following the close of escrow. DRH also agreed to repair any damage to the Improvements that are not immediately adjacent to the lots to the extent damage is caused by DRH or its agents, employees or contractors.
To secure DRH’s obligations to timely complete the adjacent Improvement obligations, DRH agreed to deliver to SPTLE a letter of credit in the amount of $102,000. If DRH defaults in its obligations to timely perform the adjacent Improvement obligations, SPTLE has the right to draw on the letter of credit to complete the adjacent Improvement obligations to the extent necessary to cause the Bonds to be released.
Underwood Project
On May 19, 2009, our affiliate, SPT Lake Elsinore Holding Co., closed on the purchase of real property constituting 543 single family residential lots, a 9.4 acre park and over 70 acres of open space on a total of 225 acres of unimproved land commonly referred to as tract 29835 located in the City of Menifee, Riverside County, California, commonly known as the “Underwood Project.” The purchase price was $1,650,000. The purchase was made pursuant to a Purchase and Sale Agreement and Joint Escrow Instructions, dated May 13, 2009 by and between SPT Lake Elsinore Holding Co. as buyer, and U.S. Bank National Association, as seller. U.S. Bank National Association is not affiliated with the Company or any of its affiliates.
On August 31, 2010, SPT-Lake Elsinore Holding Co., LLC closed a secured loan from Cardinal Investment Properties - Underwood, L.P. The loan amount was $1,000,000 and was made pursuant to a loan agreement between SPT-Lake Elsinore Holding Co., LLC (“Borrower”) and Cardinal Investment Properties - Underwood, L.P. (“Lender”) dated August 30, 2010. Cardinal Investment Properties - Underwood, L.P. is not affiliated with the Company or any of its affiliates.
The loan bears interest at a rate of twelve percent per annum, and has a maturity date in twenty-four months at which time all accrued and unpaid interest and principal is due in full. A non-refundable interest payment equal to the first year’s interest for the loan was prepaid out of the Loan amount of the initial Loan funding in the amount of $120,000. Thereafter, interest is due and payable quarterly, commencing on the date that is three months after the one-year anniversary of the disbursement date. An initial loan fee of five percent of the Loan amount, or $50,000, is payable to Lender upon the earliest to occur of (i) full repayment of the loan, (ii) a default by the Borrower under the loan, or (iii) the first anniversary date of the Loan. Borrower may extend the loan for up to two additional periods of six months, provided (i) Borrower is not in default at the time of the extension, (ii) Borrower gives written notice to Lender of its intent to extend no less than ten days prior to the then-current maturity date, (iii) Borrower makes payment to Lender of a two percent loan extension fee, based on the then-outstanding loan balance, and (iv) Borrower makes payment to Lender of any unpaid interest accrued under the loan. Interest accruing under the loan during an extension period shall be paid monthly in arrears.
The loan is secured by a deed of trust with assignment of rents in favor of Lender on property purchased by the Borrower on May 19, 2009. The Underwood property is comprised of five hundred forty-three unimproved residential lots in the City of Menifee, California. Borrower has agreed to indemnify and hold harmless Lender from and against any and all indemnified costs directly or indirectly arising out of or resulting from any hazardous substance being present or released in, on or around, or potentially affecting, any part of the property securing the loan.
If Borrower fails to make any payment when required under the promissory note, Lender has the option to immediately declare all sums due and owing under the promissory note.
Borrower used the proceeds from this loan (i) to pay a delinquent special assessment from the Watson Road Community Facilities District, payable to the City of Buckeye in Arizona, in the approximate amount of $276,434, (ii) to make a $500,000 principal payment to AZPro Developments, Inc. as required under a secured promissory note in favor of AZPro Developments, Inc. This payment was originally due July 31, 2010 but was extended by one month to August 31, 2010, and (iii) for payment of other outstanding liabilities of the Company.
As undeveloped land, the Underwood Project is not an income-producing property. The purchase was made based upon the anticipated capital appreciation of the property.
Desert Moon Estates Project
On July 31, 2009, our affiliate, SPT AZ Land Holdings, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company (“SPTAZ”) and wholly owned subsidiary of our Operating Partnership, closed on the purchase of real property consisting of a final plat of 739 single family residential lots on a total of 200 acres of unimproved land commonly known as “Desert Moon Estates” located in the Town of Buckeye, Maricopa County, Arizona (the “Desert Moon Estates Property”). The purchase price was $3,000,000. The purchase was made pursuant to a Purchase and Sale Agreement and Joint Escrow Instructions, dated June 29, 2009 (the “Desert Moon Purchase Agreement”), by and between SPTAZ and AZPro Developments, Inc., an Arizona corporation (“AZPRO”). On July 28, 2009, SPTAZ and AZPRO executed a First Amendment to Purchase and Sale Agreement and Joint Escrow Instructions modifying the terms of the original Desert Moon Purchase Agreement to provide for SPTAZ’s payment of the purchase price through a $2,000,000 Secured Promissory Note and Deed of Trust with Assignment of Rents.
In connection with the Desert Moon Purchase Agreement, SPTAZ executed a $2,000,000 Secured Promissory Note (the “Promissory Note”) in favor of AZPRO. Interest on the Promissory Note will accrue on the principal outstanding from the date of the Promissory Note at a rate of six percent (6.00%) per annum. Payments of interest only will be made quarterly in arrears on November 1, 2009, February 1, 2010 and May 1, 2010. On the maturity date of the Promissory Note, July 31, 2010, the entire outstanding principal balance and all unpaid interest on the Promissory Note was due and payable in full. The Promissory Note is secured by a Deed of Trust with Assignment of Rents which encumbers the Desert Moon Estates Property. SPTAZ may prepay in whole or in part the principal amount outstanding under the Promissory Note, together with accrued and unpaid interest thereon computed to the date of prepayment and any sums owing to AZPRO, without penalty or premium.
If SPTAZ fails to pay any installment of interest by the fifth day of each calendar quarter, AZPRO has the right to assess a late fee equal to 10% of the amount that is delinquent and the interest rate on the entire principal amount outstanding will adjust to 12% per annum from the date the delinquent payment was first due until the delinquent payment has been made. Similar penalties apply if the principal is not paid upon the maturity date.
On March 11, 2010, AZPRO and SPTAZ executed a First Amendment to Secured Promissory Note which extended the current maturity date of the Promissory Note to July, 31, 2011 provided SPTAZ made a principal reduction of $500,000 on or before the current maturity date of July 31, 2010 and all property taxes and CFD bond payments on the property were current. Additionally, SPTAZ agreed to a two percent increase in the original interest rate beginning on the original maturity date of July 31, 2010. The $500,000 principal pay down date of July 31, 2010 was extended to August 31, 2010. SPTAZ paid the principal pay down of $500,000 on September 2, 2010.
On July 13, 2010 the Company received a Notice of Potential Sale of Real Estate for Delinquent Special Assessment (or “Notice”) from the Watson Road Community Facilities District. This Notice was received when the Company failed to pay a required special assessment when due on June 1, 2010. The Desert Moon Estates Project is obligated to pay a bi-annual special assessment to the City of Buckeye, Arizona and management was in communication with the City of Buckeye, Arizona regarding this past due amount which approximated $276,000. The Notice required full payment by August 18, 2010. If the Company was unable to make the full payment by August 18, 2010, the City of Buckeye had additional remedies for payment available to them including the ability to start foreclosure proceedings against the property. Management paid this past due special assessment on September 3, 2010 and the City of Buckeye subsequently informed management that the Desert Moon Estates project was in current status.
As undeveloped land, the Desert Moon Estates Project is not an income-producing property. The purchase was made based upon the anticipated capital appreciation of the property.
See Note 10 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.
Springbrook Properties
On January 9, 2009, SPT Real Estate Finance, LLC, made two separate loans to Aware Development Company, Inc. (“Aware”), in the aggregate amount of $2,300,000. The loans to Aware were made pursuant to two promissory notes, which were secured by two separate collateral pledge agreements encumbering the following real property located in Riverside County, California:
·
approximately 118 acres of vacant and unentitled land located near the City of Lake Elsinore, in an unincorporated area of Riverside County, California (the “Meadowbrook Project”); and
·
approximately 6.11 acres of vacant and unentitled land located near the City of Lake Elsinore, in an unincorporated area of Riverside County, California (the “Coffman Project”).
The Meadowbrook Project and the Coffman Project are, collectively, the “Springbrook Properties.”
The making of the loans to Aware was a related party transaction in that, immediately prior to the loans being made, Aware purchased from Vineyard Bank two loans made by Vineyard Bank (the “Vineyard Loans”) to our affiliate Springbrook Investments, L.P. (“Springbrook”) whose general partner is a California corporation wholly owned by the Shopoff Revocable Trust. William Shopoff, our chief executive officer, is a trustee of the Shopoff Revocable Trust.
In lieu of payment of the Vineyard Loans, Aware assigned the Vineyard Loans to SPT Real Estate Finance, LLC. The assignment was completed and documented by two separate Memoranda of Assignment of Note, Deed of Trust and Loan Documents, each dated August 29, 2009.
At the time of the assignment of the Vineyard Loans to SPT Real Estate Finance, LLC, the Vineyard Loans were in default and all obligations of Springbrook were due and payable in full. Springbrook executed and delivered to SPT Real Estate Finance, LLC grant deeds to the Springbrook Properties, the underlying real estate collateral for the Vineyard Loans, in consideration for the discharge by SPT Real Estate Finance, LLC of all Springbrook’s obligations under the Vineyard Loans. On September 4, 2009, SPT Real Estate Finance, LLC took title to the Springbrook Properties and on September 24, 2009, SPT Real Estate Finance, LLC deeded the Springbrook Properties to our affiliate, SPT Lake Elsinore Holding Co., LLC.
We intend to hold the Springbrook Properties for the long-term for the purpose of capital appreciation and, accordingly, we have no current plans for improvement or development of the Springbrook Properties.
The Meadowbrook Project is an undeveloped property that is not anticipated to be developed until after 2015. The property is currently zoned rural residential, and a zone change, general plan amendment, and tentative map approval are necessary to achieve the entitlements being sought. As such, it is anticipated that the Meadowbrook Project will be developed after entitled or partially improved projects owned by others in the vicinity of the City of Lake Elsinore are developed. The Meadowbrook Project competes with nearby projects, such as Tentative Tract Maps 25475 (commonly known as Tuscany Crest) and 33725 (commonly known as Tuscany Valley), which consist of a total of approximately 355 single-family lots and are also owned by us. Other competition may come from nearby properties that obtain entitlements for residential development prior to the development of the Meadowbrook Project.
The Coffman Project is part of a proposed annexation, led by the City of Lake Elsinore, of a larger area of properties into the City of Lake Elsinore. The annexation will occur concurrently with the update of the City of Lake Elsinore’s General Plan and Environmental Report (the “General Plan”). This update to the General Plan will provide for a change to the zoning of the property from commercial-industrial to multi-family/high-density residential development, allowing up to 18 units per acre. The annexation is still a priority for the City of Lake Elsinore, although the City of Lake Elsinore has not committed to a completion date for the annexation and update of the General Plan. Projects with which the Coffman Project may compete include a 126-unit multi-family project proposed by MBK Homes near the Coffman Project. Timing for the MBK Homes project is unknown.
Tuscany Valley Properties
On November 5, 2009, our affiliate, SPT-Lake Elsinore Holding Co.,(“SPTLE”), purchased real property commonly known as “Tuscany Valley,” consisting of (a) 519 entitled but unimproved residential lots and 2 commercial lots located in the City of Lake Elsinore, California (the “Lake Elsinore Property”), and (b) 400 acres of unentitled and unimproved land located in the City of Chino Hills, California (the “Chino Hills Property”). The combined purchase price for the Lake Elsinore Property and the Chino Hills Property was $9,600,000.
The purchase of the Lake Elsinore Property and the Chino Hills Property was made pursuant to a series of purchase agreements and amendments thereto that were entered into by the parties over the course of more than twelve months between September 30, 2008 and November 5, 2009 (collectively, the “Tuscany Valley Purchase Agreement”), by and between Shopoff Advisors and TSG Little Valley L. P., a California limited partnership (“TSG”).
Pursuant to the Tuscany Valley Purchase Agreement, TSG agreed to sell and Shopoff Advisors agreed to buy, 163 entitled but unimproved residential lots located in the City of Lake Elsinore, California. The contract purchase price was $4,890,000. On September 3, 2009, the Tuscany Valley Purchase Agreement was amended as follows: (a) SPTLE agreed to purchase additional property from TSG consisting of 356 entitled but unimproved, residential lots and 2 commercial lots located in the City of Lake Elsinore, California and 400 acres of unentitled and unimproved land located in the City of Chino Hills, California, (b) the purchase price was increased to $9,600,000 from $4,890,000, (c) the nonrefundable deposit requirement was increased to $2,000,000 from $1,000,000, and (d) the escrow closing date was amended to on or before November 30, 2009. In addition, Shopoff Advisors assigned all of its rights, title and interest in the Tuscany Valley Purchase Agreement to SPTLE.
Of the total purchase price, $2,900,000 was paid by SPTLE’s execution and delivery of (a) an all-inclusive purchase money note secured by deed of trust (“Promissory Note”) in favor of TSG, in the principal amount of $2,900,000, and (b) an all-inclusive deed of trust executed by SPTLE in favor of TSG, as beneficiary therein, securing the Promissory Note. The Promissory Note bears interest at a rate of twelve percent per annum, and was payable in full on November 6, 2010. No payments are due during the term of the Promissory Note. The Promissory Note includes the unpaid balance of another promissory note made on April 3, 2006, in the original principal amount of $2,000,000, payable by TSG to 1st Centennial Bank (the “Included Note”). The Included Note is secured by a deed of trust encumbering a portion of the the Lake Elsinore Property. The outstanding principal balance on the Included Note as of November 3, 2009 was approximately $1,750,000. The current payee under the Included Note is Multibank 2009-1 CRE Venture, LLC.
Even though the Promissory Note is all-inclusive, if TSG fails to pay any installments when due upon the Included Note, SPTLE has retained the right to make such payments directly to payee of the Included Note, and the amount so paid shall be credited against the next following installment or installments due under the Promissory Note. If SPTLE fails to make any payment when required under the Promissory Note, TSG has the option to immediately declare all sums due and owing under the Promissory Note.
On March 5, 2010, TSG and SPTLE executed a First Amendment to Secured Promissory Note which extended the current maturity date of the Promissory Note to November, 6, 2011 provided SPTLE made a principal reduction of at least $500,000 on or before the current maturity date of November 6, 2010. Additionally, SPTLE agreed to a two percent increase in the original interest rate beginning on the original maturity date of November 6, 2010. As of December 31, 2010, a principal pay down of $991,584 had been made on the TSG promissory note.
On October 26, 2010, SPTLE deeded 400 acres of unentitled and unimproved land located in the City of Chino Hills, California, originally purchased on November 5, 2009 as part of a larger transaction to a newly created limited liability company, SPT - Chino Hills, LLC which is 100% owned by the Operating Partnership and therefore its accounts are consolidated in the Company’s financial statements. The purpose of this transfer was to remove from SPTLE, property that was not located in the Lake Elsinore California submarket.
On November 10, 2010 the Company received a Notice of Default And Election To Sell Under Deed of Trust (or “Notice”) from First American Title Insurance Company. This Notice was received when TSG failed to pay the outstanding principal balance to Multibank 2009-1 CRE Venture, LLC, the current payee (“Lender”) under the Included Note. Prior to receiving this Notice, representatives of TSG had been in discussions and ongoing negotiations with Lender regarding the Included Note with the intent of renegotiating the terms of or reaching a settlement on the Included Note. These discussions and ongoing negotiations to date have been unsuccessful and TSG and the Company received the Notice. The Company, when it purchased the Tuscany Valley Properties in November 2009, took ownership through a TSG financed all-inclusive promissory note and deed of trust in favor of TSG that included the Lender note. To date, the Company has not received a formal demand from TSG for payment to Lender. If TSG or the Company fails to reach a resolution with Lender, the Company could lose a portion of the Tuscany Valley Properties (approximately 163 of the 519 lots). Management is in discussions with TSG regarding the Notice and believes that a satisfactory resolution will be reached prior to the completion of the foreclosure process, which is a minimum of 120 days from Notice recordation, or November 5, 2010. After January 30, 2011, the Lender has the right to file a Notice of Sale.
As of April 14, 2011 there have been no new developments regarding the Notice filed by Lender.
TSG is our shareholder, with ownership of 14,900 shares as of December 31, 2010, which represents approximately 0.74% of our total shares outstanding. Stevan J. Gromet, President of Portfolio Partners, Inc., a California corporation, the general partner of TSG, is also our shareholder, with ownership of 11,000 shares as of December 31, 2010, which represents approximately 0.55% of our total shares outstanding.
As undeveloped land, the Tuscany Valley Project is not an income-producing property. The purchase was made based upon the anticipated capital appreciation of the property.
We also owned the following real estate-related investment as of December 31, 2010:
Mesquite Venture I, LLC - $600,000 Secured Loan
On September 30, 2008, we originated, through SPT Real Estate Finance, LLC, an affiliated entity 100% owned by the Operating Partnership (“SPT Real Estate Finance”), one real estate loan of $600,000. Mesquite Venture I, LLC was the borrower. The loan is a second position lien behind a $3,681,000 first position lien. The term of the loan was nine months and bore interest at an annual rate of 14%. The loan was secured by a second deed of trust, assignment of rents and security agreement encumbering real property situated in the City of Mesquite with an appraised value of $11,000,000 as of July 18, 2008. This real estate loan was recorded as a note receivable with $63,000 of prepaid interest netted against the note balance on our consolidated balance sheet.
On or about June 30, 2009, SPT Real Estate Finance agreed to extend the maturity date of its secured note with Mesquite Venture I, LLC from June 30, 2009 to May 15, 2010. In consideration of this loan extension, Mesquite Venture I, LLC agreed to pay a loan extension fee of five percent of the outstanding principal balance or $30,000 payable as follows: $10,000 upon execution of the secured note extension, $10,000 on October 1, 2009 and $10,000 on January 1, 2010. Mesquite Venture I, LLC also agreed to make a $10,000 payment on April 1, 2010, which would be applied against accrued and unpaid interest. Interest would accrue on the outstanding principal balance at an annual rate of fourteen percent and all accrued and unpaid interest and principal would be due and payable in full at the new maturity date of May 15, 2010.
On or about October 12, 2009, SPT Real Estate Finance was informed that on September 28, 2009 a Notice of Default and Election to Sell Under Deed of Trust (“NOD”) was recorded on behalf of East West Bank, as beneficiary (“East West Bank”), with respect to the first position lien securing certain obligations of Mesquite Venture I, LLC to East West Bank, including without limitation indebtedness under a Promissory Note in the initial principal amount of $3,681,000 (the "Senior Loan"). The NOD was filed due to Mesquite Venture I, LLC’s failure to pay the August 1, 2009 installment of principal and interest and all subsequent installments of principal and interest under the Senior Loan.
A default on our secured note was triggered when Mesquite Venture I, LLC failed to make their $10,000 loan extension fee payment due on October 1, 2009. Mesquite Venture I, LLC subsequently failed to make their $10,000 loan extension fee payment due on January 1, 2010.
On December 24, 2009, an entity controlled by one of the original guarantors of the aforementioned Senior Loan, entered into a Mortgage Loan Sale Agreement whereby the holder of the Senior Loan, East West Bank, agreed to sell to PLQ Mesquite Investors, LLC (Paul J. Giuntini, one of the original guarantors of the Senior Loan is manager of PLQ Mesquite Investors, LLC), the $3,681,000 mortgage note together with all of East West Bank’s interest in and to any of Mesquite Venture I, LLC’s property held by East West Bank, all collateral and any guarantees obtained in connection with the $3,681,000 note. The purchase price paid by PLQ Mesquite Investors, LLC to East West Bank was $1,800,000.
On December 30, 2009, East West Bank officially assigned to PLQ Mesquite Investors, LLC, the beneficial interest under the Deed of Trust, Security Agreement, Assignment of Rents & Fixture Filing dated as of June 26, 2006, made by Mesquite Venture I, LLC as trustor, for the benefit of East West Bank, as beneficiary and recorded June 26, 2006. Mesquite Venture I, LLC cured its first lien position default upon the purchase, by PLQ Mesquite Investors, LLC, of the $3,681,000 mortgage note from East West Bank as PLQ Mesquite Investors, LLC’s manager, was also a guarantor on the $3,681,000 mortgage note with East West Bank.
Mesquite Venture I, LLC and our Advisor agreed that if Mesquite Venture I, LLC paid (i) all past due payments required as outlined in the extension agreement, (ii) the April 1, 2010 payment of $10,000, and (iii) reimbursed SPT Real Estate Finance $10,000 for attorney’s fees incurred due to Mesquite Venture I, LLC’s failure to make timely payments as outlined in the extension agreement, SPT Real Estate Finance would consider Mesquite Venture I, LLC reinstated and would not pursue the guarantees from Mesquite Venture I, LLC and would no longer demand payment in full on their secured note. The total amount due from Mesquite Venture I, LLC was $40,000.
On March 4, 2010, Mesquite Venture I, LLC paid SPT Real Estate Finance the negotiated $40,000, representing (i) the past due loan fee payments of $10,000 each due on October 1, 2009 and January 1, 2010, (ii) the April 1, 2010 payment of $10,000, and (iii) $10,000 for attorney’s fees incurred by SPT Real Estate Finance due to non-payment on behalf of Mesquite Venture I, LLC. Mesquite Venture I, LLC was then deemed reinstated by SPT Real Estate Finance.
This note matured on May 15, 2010 and SPT Real Estate Finance, LLC did not receive payment in full as agreed to by Mesquite Venture I, LLC. Management began discussions with Mesquite Venture I, LLC regarding their matured $600,000 promissory note with SPT Real Estate Finance, LLC and on or about August 13, 2010, management and Mesquite Venture I, LLC documented and executed a reinstatement and modification agreement whereby management (i) granted an extension to Mesquite Venture I, LLC resulting in a new maturity date of January 15, 2011, (ii) agreed to waive extension fees relating to the modification, (iii) agreed the interest rate during the extension period would be 14%, (iv) added all accrued and unpaid interest through the date of the reinstatement and modification to the outstanding principal balance of the promissory note, (v) agreed during the extension period, Mesquite Venture I, LLC would make monthly payments of $5,000 towards accrued and unpaid interest, and (vi) agreed Mesquite Venture I, LLC would provide additional collateral, specifically fifty percent (50%) of one guarantors ownership position in Silvertip Resort Village, LLC, a limited liability company whose primary purpose is real estate investment and which currently owns a hotel site in northern California.
As of December 31, 2010, Mesquite Venture I, LLC had failed to make its December 2010, $5,000 monthly payment towards accrued and unpaid interest as required under the reinstatement and modification agreement. Due to the failure by Mesquite Venture I, LLC to make its December 2010 monthly payment, Mesquite Venture I, LLC was in default under the terms of its reinstatement and modification agreement. Our Advisor has initiated discussions with Mesquite Venture I, LLC and Company legal council regarding the default.
See Note 10 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.
ITEM 3.