Item 2. Properties
Our principal offices are located at 320 North Carson Street, Carson City, Nevada 89701. As of July 2011, our office space is provided to us by our officer and director, Greg Painter, at a cost of $500 per month. This amount currently remains accrued and unpaid. We believe that our office space and facilities are sufficient to meet our present needs and do not anticipate any difficulty securing alternative or additional space, as needed, on terms acceptable to us.
Mineral Properties
The Discovery Day Gold Property
On November 14, 2011, we entered into an asset sale agreement with Bowerman Holdings LLC to acquire up to 75% of 100% of Bowerman’s right, title and interest in and to 31 KM mining claims and 17 Raddlefinger mining claims located in Siskiyou County, California. This claim block contains 5 mines which comprised the historical Knownothing mining district and is now commonly known as the Discovery Day Gold Property. A Canadian National Instrument 43-101 Technical Report was written on the property in August 2009 and is available on our website.
Closing of the acquisition was scheduled to occur by February 12, 2012, unless otherwise agreed by the parties. On November 13, 2012, our company and Bowerman extended the closing date through May 31, 2013 and subsequently extended the closing date through November 30, 2013. Effective November 30, 2013, our company and Bowerman agreed to three additional 90 day extensions for the closing.
The claim block is owned and controlled 100% by Trinity Alps Resources, Inc. with a 2% NSR production royalty payable to Patrick Fagen, president of Trinity Alps. Both Patrick Fagen and Greg Painter, officers and directors of our company, are indirect majority interest holders in Bowerman.
Both Patrick Fagen and Greg Painter, our two directors and officers, are indirectly majority interest holders in Bowerman, as they have a direct ownership interest in Trinity Alps, which is the sole member of Bowerman. Collectively, Messrs. Fagen and Painter hold a majority interest in Trinity Alps.
The Discovery Day mine was operational as recently as May 2010 and is fully permitted for gold production with the US Forest Service with all environmental impact studies completed and reclamation bonds posted. There are approximately 2,000 feet of underground workings on three levels with all utilities (air, water and power) in place and functional. Mine facilities include a miner’s dry with showers, mine office, supply house, compressor/generator building, repair shop, fuel storage and two explosives magazines. All underground mining equipment, surface support equipment, and mine vehicles necessary for mining are on site and operational.
The property includes a 20 worker man camp consisting of sleeping trailers, men’s and women’s restroom with showers, mechanics shop, fuel storage area, an administration building with a kitchen, lounge and two managerial offices, satellite television, internet and telephone, as well as integrated power and water systems. The property has a fully functional and permitted 100 ton per day gravity concentration processing mill which was last operated in October 2012. The mill site includes a lined water storage pond, two tailings ponds, a fully equipped assay laboratory and a gold smelting facility. Historical gold recoveries from the mill have reportedly averaged approximately 95%. With adequate mill feed, the Discovery Day Gold Property has the milling capacity to produce 25,000 ounces of gold per year.
This property exemplifies our company’s strategy to acquire historical high grade, near term production properties with relatively low operating costs. Our company plans to put the mine back into production in the very near future and commence exploration efforts to better define the resources of the other mines on the property and the entire Knownothing district.
We have also granted permission for Bowerman to entertain third party purchase offers for the claims, any sale of which would be subject to our approval, and include compensation to us for a buyout of our rights under the agreement.
Discovery Day Gold Property Plan of Operation
Under the asset purchase and joint venture agreements with Bowerman, our company is, in addition to other compensation, required to spend $1,500,000 on exploration, development and operating costs for the property as the earn in for the acquisition of its 60% equity in the property. The agreement outlines a work program focused on the two companies’ shared vision for the property. The three main goals of the work program are to:
1.
Put the mine back into commercial production. The mine was fully operational until underground activities were suspended by the Mine Safety Health Administration (“MSHA”) in May 2010. Prior to the suspension, two areas of the mine, the 400’ and 490’ raises were producing ore which, according to grab sample assays, averaged between .75 and 1.25 ounces per ton. Our company plans to re-commence mining in these two headings immediately after addressing the pending MSHA issues. Based on previous mining efforts these two headings are expected to provide a steady source of quality ore for the mill.
2.
Better define and develop the reserves and resources of the property. None of the 5 mines on the claims have ever been drilled and/or systematically studied so their ultimate potential remains unknown. Our company plans to design and initiate an extensive geological evaluation of the property including surveying, sampling and drilling. Success with this geologic program will provide a better understanding of all of the geologic structures and potentially develop additional sources of ore for the mill to increase production capabilities. This geologic work will be done concurrently with the production mining efforts.
3.
Acquire mining access to the major veins located on the property. An extensive surface survey was performed in early 2010 that indicated the end of the 400 cross cut in the lower Discovery Day workings is in close proximity to the prolific Gold Run and Hunter veins. These two veins reportedly produced over 50,000 ounces of gold from the Gilta mine. Historical maps and geologic reports show that these veins were never mined from the Discovery Day side of the mountain. Accessing these two veins via extending the underground drift at the Discovery Day mine will be a top priority for providing additional ore to the mill.
Technical Report
We received a technical report dated August 10, 2009 written by Jeffrey L. Wilson, P. Geol., with respect to the Discovery Day Gold Property. Pursuant to the report, Mr. Wilson recommended two phases of work for the Discovery Day Gold Property. The goal of the Phase 1 work program is to develop high-priority drill targets. Phase 1 work consists of surface geologic mapping and sampling with tight ground survey control. Underground mapping and sampling of historic workings should be considered where safe entry is possible. Estimated Phase 1 costs are $172,000 over a three to four month period in the event that we elect to proceed.
The Phase 2 work program is designed to drill test targets identified in Phase 1. Phase 2 consists of underground core drilling (3,000 ft.) and surface core drilling (4,800 ft.) at the Discovery Day mine and surface core drilling (10,000 ft.) at the Hansen mine. Should we proceed with Phase 2, success at the Discovery Day mine would lead to developing near-term reserves for the mill. Success at the Hansen mine would develop a new source of ore immediately adjacent to the mill.
The Discovery Day Gold Property is a production-ready gold property in need of exploration and geological work to delineate near-term reserves. The property is fully permitted for production with attending underground mine, powder magazines, operational mill, support facilities, and underground and surface equipment. Exploration potential appears good to excellent to identify new mineralization and eventual reserves.
The Discovery Day Gold Property is located in the Salmon Mountains of northwestern California, approximately 60 miles southwest of Yreka. The property is approximately 950 acres and consists of 48 unpatented lode claims which encompass most of the Knownothing mining district. Property jurisdiction is under the U.S. Forestry Service (“USFS”) who is responsible for all operations in the Klamath National Forest. The claim block is owned and controlled 100% by Trinity Alps Resources, Inc. with a 2% NSR production royalty payable to Patrick Fagen, president of Trinity Alps Resources, Inc. Mr. Fagen is also an officer and director of our company.
The property is between 2,000 to 4,000 ft. in elevation in steep and forested terrain. Access is good via paved and dirt roads. Mean annual precipitation ranges from 35 to 85 inches per year occurring mainly as rain. A 12-month operating season is possible with some down time for snow removal. A Decision Notice by the USFS in 1995 found no significant impact by the Discovery Day mine operations to any threatened, endangered, or sensitive plant or animal species.
Property Location and Description
The Discovery Day Gold Property consists of 48 contiguous unpatented federal lode mining claims covering approximately 950 acres in the Knownothing mining district, Siskiyou County, California. The Knownothing mining district is located in the Salmon Mountains within the Klamath National Forest at latitude 41°11'44"N longitude 123°19'27"W in Sections 1 and 12, T.9N., R.7E., and Sections 6 and 7, T.9N., R.8E., Humboldt Base and Meridian. The Universal Transverse Mercator (UTM) map datum is in NAD 27, UTM Zone 10. The claims are on both sides of the northeast-trending Bowerman ridge which form the divide between the North Fork of the Knownothing Creek drainage and the Granite Gulch Creek drainage on Bowerman Mountain. The property falls on the Youngs Peak, California 7.5 minute topographic quadrangle (2001 version, scale 1:24,000) with contour intervals of 80 ft. Elevations on the claim block range between 2,000 and 4,040 ft. MSL. The property is approximately 60 miles southwest of Yreka, California and approximately 8 miles by road south of Forks of Salmon, California.
The 48 lode claims are located on federal lands under the jurisdiction of the USFS in the Klamath National Forest. Recording of mining claims and collection of annual claim maintenance fees is administered by the Bureau of Land Management (“BLM”). The Raddlefinger claims were purchased on January 9, 2006 for the sum of $1,200,000 from Lovelock 79.com Inc, a Nevada corporation by Discovery Day LLC, a private limited liability company organized in the State of Nevada, on December 26, 2003. All of the “KM” claims were staked by Discovery Day LLC and recorded on March 12, 2004. Trinity Alps purchased the entire block of 48 claims and all mining assets from Discovery Day LLC on July 24, 2009 for the price $1,475,000.
Figure 1 - Location of Discovery Day Claim
Figure 2 - Claim Block of Discovery Day Claim
Accessibility
The Discovery Day Gold Property is accessed by traveling southwest from the town of Yreka on paved State Highway 3 approximately 68 miles to the small town of Forks of Salmon. Travel time by car in good weather is about 2 hours due to slow driving conditions caused by narrow lanes, many sharp curves, and steep grades. From Forks of Salmon, the property is reached in less than 30 minutes by traveling approximately 3 miles southeast on paved Cecilville Road to USFS Road 10N02 and thereafter traveling approximately 3 miles by one-lane dirt road to the Discovery Day mill (Star Hansen millsite) and an additional 1 mile to the Discovery Day man camp and mine. The access road is locally steep. A 4-wheel drive vehicle is necessary during the winter and spring seasons. The mine access road is capable of handling small trucks and equipment.
The town of Forks of Salmon, with a population of less than 40, is the nearest “town” with phone, fuel and mail service. The nearest large towns are Yreka and Eureka which are 2 to 3 hours travel time away. The city of Medford, Oregon is another 40 miles north of Yreka on Highway 5.
A helicopter pad has been developed at the Discovery Day site and there is a short landing strip for fixed wing aircraft in nearby Etna, California 40 miles to the east.
Climate and Operating Season
The Pacific coastal climate to the west of the property has a strong influence on the climate at the Discovery Day Gold Property. This coastal influence is moderated by the central Klamath Mountains located to the west of the property. Summers are warm and dry; winters are cool and wet. Summer high temperatures are about 90° to >100° Fahrenheit (32° to > 38° C); low temperatures are about 55° Fahrenheit (13° C). Winter high temperatures are about 40° to 55° Fahrenheit (5° to 13° ) with rain and somewhat cooler under clear skies.
Mean annual precipitation in the Salmon River watershed ranges from about 35 inches to about 85 inches. Approximately 90% of the precipitation occurs from October to May from the north Pacific cyclonic storms. The remainder occurs during summer thunderstorms. The climate within much of the Klamath National Forest is influenced by elevation. Elevation on the claim block ranges between 2,000 ft. and 4,041 ft., MSL. Winter precipitation occurs mainly as snow above 4,000 ft., and mainly as rain below 4,000 ft. elevation.
A 12-month operating season is possible with the potential for down time for snow removal during the heaviest of snow events. Fluctuation of the snow level occasionally results in rain falling on snow, causing rapid snow melt. The southern exposure for the mine, man camp and mill site also facilitates the snow melt at these key operating points.
A Galion road grader is used to clear the mine road of snow and small slides. Based on actual operating experience, the most practical operating season is from March through November with a skeleton crew performing care and maintenance from December through February. With the mill facility being located at an elevation of 2550 ft., ore can be stockpiled for milling during the winter season, but road conditions make full scale winter operations at the site difficult.
Geology and Mineralization
Northwestern California is comprised of accreted terranes which form the Klamath Mountains geologic province. The Discovery Day Gold Property lies within Eastern Hayfork terrane of the Western Paleozoic and Triassic Belt. Rocks within this terrane are metamorphosed to greenschist facies and consist of a mélange of Triassic-Paleozoic metasedimentary and metavolcanic rocks, and Jurassic ultramafic rocks. This package of rocks is intruded by the Youngs Peak pluton, a Jurassic dioritic intrusion. The Discovery Day claim block is located primarily on metasedimentary rocks and slightly overlaps the contact with the Youngs Peak pluton.
Metasedimentary rocks are comprised of carbonaceous argillite, chert, quartzite, chert-argillite breccia, and uncommon blocks of recrystallized limestone. Large portions of the metasedimentary section are chaotically mixed and deformed, representing Jurassic “mélange-style tectonic disruption.” Metavolcanic rocks consist of “greenstone” of original basaltic to andesitic composition. Ultramafic rocks are irregularly-shaped bodies of sheared serpentinized ultramafic rocks within the metasedimentary rock sequence. There is a consistent north-south trend of lithologic units with preferential bedding dips eastward. Local foliation is deflected by the Youngs Peak pluton.
Gold mineralization is present in a series of poorly exposed, sub parallel, narrow, mesothermal gold-quartz veins and fault gouge located adjacent and outward from the Youngs Peak pluton. Placer gold deposits are widespread in local drainages. Gold-quartz veins are typically narrow, ranging from 1 to 10 ft. in thickness and commonly 1 to 4 ft. in thickness. They are comprised of low-sulfide mixtures of white quartz, quartz boudins, irregular quartz stringers, and dark inclusions of pyritic country rock breccia fragments. The veins pinch and swell and may have sharp or diffuse contacts with country rock. Ultimate vein lengths are unknown but are likely greater than 1500 ft. Vein dips are typically southward and vary from 55° to 90°. Gold-bearing, low-angle structures are also present. Gold ores contain a sulfide suite comprised of dominant pyrite and smaller amounts of arsenopyrite, galena, sphalerite, chalcopyrite, and pyrrotite. Sulfides are usually much less than 3%. Visible gold is locally present. Native gold has a tendency to be associated with galena as opposed to other sulfides. Minor silver-rich electrum is present. Liberated gold particles range from 22 to 450 microns. Ore grades range from 1 to 7 opt Au and are typically 1 to 3 opt Au. High-grade pockets of ore comprised of tens’ of ozs gold have been encountered. Silver is not an important credit. Historically, ore has been produced from over a vertical distance of 1500 ft. Individual ore shoots are highly variable and may pinch out horizontally in short distances. Shoots are reported from 25 ft. to 100+ ft. wide and may extend downward over 350 ft. Reliable information on the rake of gold mineralization is not available. Auriferous clay fault gouge containing greater than 1 opt Au has been reported mined from old workings.
Exploration and Mining History
More than 7 million ozs gold have been recovered from gold-quartz fissure veins and placer deposits in the Klamath Mountains province of California-Oregon. The first discovery of placer gold in the Knownothing district was made in 1850. Gold-quartz veins were later discovered in the Knownothing Creek drainage in the 1860’s with production underway by the 1870’s. Principal mines include the Gilta, Knownothing, and Star Hansen. Combined production from these mines was 60,430 ozs gold of which the Gilta mine produced 83%. Gold production extended into the 1930’s and minor work occurred in the late 1970’s and early 1980’s. In 1986, lode claims were staked covering the old “Coldwater” mine workings in the Granite Gulch drainage, east of the Gilta mine. These workings have since been reconditioned and developed into what is now the Discovery Day mine.
Various owners have controlled the Discovery Day Gold Property. From 1986 to 2004, the property was controlled and operated by Wazco Inc., Heritage Mines Ltd., and Lovelock79.com. During this time, 1900 ft of underground development was completed with a reported 3,000 ozs gold produced. In 1996, 195 tons of ore was reportedly processed that averaged 12.06 opt Au, including 43 tons or ore containing 37.4 opt Au. A soil survey was conducted during this period in the vicinity of the Discovery Day mine. From 2004 to 2005, Discovery Day LLC controlled the property and reconditioned the mine and improved surface facilities. Discovery Day LLC entered into an installment purchase option with Merendon Mining (NV) Inc. in 2005. Merendon occupied the property and renovated the main camp area and upgraded the mine ventilation and water systems. Various underground mine developments were completed. No significant gold production was recorded. Seven surface core holes and five underground core holes were drilled. In 2008, Merendon defaulted on their purchase option and the property reverted back to Discovery Day LLC. Discovery Day LLC sold the mine and assets to Trinity Alps Resources, Inc., a Nevada corporation, on July 24, 2009.
Drilling and Sampling
The only drill holes on the property are seven surface core holes (2,255 ft.) and five underground drill holes (578 ft.) drilled by Merendon Mining in 2005 and 2006. Surface drilling was conducted largely in front of the Discovery Day mine portal. Underground drilling focused on the Discovery Day vein on lower (haulage) level. Drill hole information is poor. One underground hole encountered significant gold mineralization where it penetrated the Discovery Day vein approximately 100 ft. below the lower (haulage) level. The intercept is 3 ft. grading 0.315 opt Au (not true thickness). No drilling has been conducted on the Gilta, Knownothing, and Hansen vein systems.
Hundreds of samples have been collected from the upper and lower levels of the Discovery Day mine and assay results are plotted on various maps. A soil sampling program was conducted in 1996 resulting in various gold-in-soil anomalies. Jeffrey L. Wilson, P. Geol., conducted verification of sampling in 2003 and 2009 with significant gold results. No quality control and assurance program has been utilized in regard to the mill site laboratory and past drill assays.
Metallurgical Testing
Gravity and flotation tests were conducted by McClelland Laboratories, Inc. in 1998 on two bulk samples from the lower and upper levels of the Discovery Day mine. The two bulk samples contained 2.334 opt Au and 0.314 opt Au, respectively. Tests on P80100 material had marginal results. Results from combined gravity and flotation tests on P80200 material had combined gold recoveries of 98.0% and 94.4%.
The Discovery Day mill presently operates with only a gravity circuit consisting of a ball mill, Deister Triple Deck 999 concentrating tables and a single-deck Deister cleaner table. Free gold recoveries are estimated at 70 to 80%. Gold recovery from sulfide concentrates is unknown.
Summary and Conclusions
Trinity Alps controls nearly the entire Knownothing mining district with no significant competitors. The property encompasses historic gold mines to include the Gilta, Knownothing, and Hansen mines. None of these old mines have been drilled. Most recently, the Discovery Day mine has been developed with modest production. Within the district, high-grade gold ore has been produced over a vertical distance of 1500 ft. Potential exists for 40 to 50 ore shoots per vein system with ore grading 1+ opt Au and local high-grade pockets containing 10 to 30+ opt Au. Additional parallel veins are highly probable. High-grade gold is exposed in the underground workings of the Discovery Day mine. This mineralization has not been drilled systematically. The Hansen mine has never been drilled and offers an attractive target immediately adjacent to the mill. Development of drill targets will require detail geologic mapping, sampling, and surveying of key mine workings. With adequate mill feed, the Discovery Day Gold Property has the milling capacity to produce 25,000 opy gold.
The Natchez Pass Gold Property (a.k.a. the “Nick” Mine)
On August 31, 2012, and as amended on September 27, 2012, our company entered into a partial purchase option agreement with Natchez Pass, LLC to acquire up to a 67.5% interest, in leasehold interests to land in Pershing County, Nevada. In order to earn the option, over a five year period our company was required to make an aggregate cash payment of $4,005,000 to, or on behalf of, Natchez Pass and certain amounts for the work program on the Natchez Pass Property, and issue up to 5,000,000 restricted shares of common stock to Natchez Pass. If our company fully exercised the option to earn 67.5% interest, our company had an option to earn up to an additional 7.5% interest at the price of $150,000 per point.
On June 6, 2013, we entered into a purchase option termination agreement with Natchez Pass LLC wherein we agreed to terminate the partial purchase option agreement dated August 31, 2012. Pursuant to the purchase option termination agreement, we have been released from all obligations, including all monies owed at that time, under the agreement. Our company has been granted a 5% net smelter royalty related to all the claims under the agreement and shall be pad 5% of the gross sale price which shall not be less than $300,000. Our company issued 2,000,000 shares of our common stock and Natchez Pass shall retain all money paid to it under the partial purchase option agreement.
The purchase option termination provided for a release from liabilities totaling $40,865. Furthermore, the 2,000,000 shares issued in conjunction with the purchase option termination had a value of $0.06 per share on August 5, 2013 for a total of $120,000. The net loss incurred as of October 31, 2013 as a result of the above agreement was $79,135, which was included in other expenses on the consolidated statements of operations. Our company has accumulated $172,548 of net costs on the property, since inception on the agreement.
The property is located in the Sierra Mining District within the Humboldt River Basin in northern Nevada. The geographical area is renowned for rich placer deposits. The 660 acre claim block is unpatented, located on BLM land, and consists of 25 lode claims and 8 placer claims. A unique and significant geologic characteristic of this mining property is that it contains both auriferous gravel channels (placer gold) as well as quartz anomalies with high grade ore shoots. However, very little substantiated geological information on the property is currently in hand.
Existing surface improvements on the property include a two acre millsite area with a fully equipped 250-400 yard per hour placer recovery circuit, 50,000 gallon water storage tank, three recirculation ponds, and a tool/parts inventory storage shed. The site has a good access road as well as on site work roads. Also on-site is a 1000 square foot, two bedroom house in good condition ideally suited for housing a security person, mine office, communications center and operations headquarters.
In addition to the surface placer development, subsurface lode development on the property is evidenced by at least 7 known adits. The full extent of the underground workings is unknown at this time as there is no known data on the location and length of all of the drifts. A survey and mapping program of the two main drifts was recently completed by Natchez Pass. Grab samples from some of the previously mined stopes have assayed in excess of 13 ounces per ton.
Natchez Pass is fully permitted for placer production with the existing facilities facilitating a near term production placer mining operation. The mine was in placer operations as recently as 2010. The re-commencement of operations will require minimal repairs to the placer mill onsite, the purchase or lease of dirt moving equipment, and a new reclamation bond to replace the existing one posted with the BLM.
Dos Naciones Property, Mexico
Effective July 9, 2009, we completed the acquisition of a 50% undivided interest, and the option to acquire a further 30% interest in, the Dos Naciones Property, located in state of Sonora, Mexico, in accordance with the terms of a property option agreement with Alta Vista Ventures Ltd. (formerly Yale Resources Ltd.) dated July 7, 2009. We entered into an amendment agreement dated June 25, 2010, amending certain terms of the option agreement.
The mineral concession that forms the Dos Naciones Property was staked by Minera Alta Vista, S.A. de C.V. (Minera Alta Vista), a Mexican company that is a subsidiary of Alta Vista Ventures Ltd. (formerlyYale Resources Ltd.) Mineral concession Dos Naciones, number 230649, was registered September 28, 2007 and expires September 27, 2057. The concession is registered by the Government of Mexico in Book 366 Page 155 Act 309. This exploration concession covers an area of 2930.8269 ha, and is currently registered in the name of Minera Alta Vista, S.A. de C.V. Title to the concession is currently held in the name of Minera Alta Vista, upon exercise of the option by our company, title to 70% of the concession will be transferred to our wholly owned Mexican subsidiary, Minera Plata Del Toro S.A. de C.V. The Dos Naciones mineral concession lies within the municipalities of Opodepe and Cucurpe, Sonora. Payments of 40,394.68 pesos are paid every semester, i.e., twice per year, to the Government of Mexico in order to maintain the rights to the mineral concession. This amount increases every two years. Our joint venture partner Alta Vista has spent approximately $100,000 on property exploration to date.
On July 9, 2012, we entered into a further amendment agreement to the Dos Naciones Property option agreement with Alta Vista as amended on June 25, 2010 and October 21, 2010. Pursuant to the terms of the further-amended agreement, Alta Vista agreed to grant our company an option to acquire a further 20% interest in the Dos Naciones Property (for a total of 70%) in consideration of the issuance of 250,000 more shares of our common stock upon signing of the agreement and the issuance of 400,000 more shares of our common stock to Alta Vista. Alta Vista also agreed to rescind its option to repurchase the property during the option period.
Under the terms of the July 9, 2012 amendment agreement, our company paid a purchase price of $29,658 (Cdn $34,000) and has an option to acquire a further 20% interest in the property subject to the following terms:
●
Issuance of 150,000 common shares on or before January 25, 2010 (issued);
●
Issuance of 200,000 common shares on or before July 7, 2010 (issued);
●
Issuance of 250,000 common shares on or before October 21, 2010 (issued);
●
Issuance of 200,000 common shares on or before July 9, 2012 (issued);
●
Issuance of 200,000 common shares on or before September 15, 2012 (issued); and
●
Incur exploration expenditures of Cdn $800,000 on or before July 7, 2013.
Because our company did not incur expenditures of Cdn $800,000 by the July 7, 2013 deadline, the option agreement lapsed. Management did not pursue renewing the Dos Naciones Agreement and on September 13, 2013, we entered into a termination agreement with Alta Vista wherein we agreed to terminate the option agreement dated July 7, 2009, as subsequently amended.
During the year ended October 31, 2013, we incurred $8,250 of mineral property costs on the Dos Naciones Property.
Item 3.