Item 2: Properties
General Background
Ring is currently engaged in oil and natural gas acquisition, exploration, development and production, with activities and operations currently in Texas and New Mexico. While our business model includes pursuing acquisition opportunities, our near term focus will be on the development of our existing properties.
Management’s Business Strategy Related to Properties
Our goal is to increase stockholder value by investing in oil and natural gas projects with attractive rates of return on capital employed. We plan to achieve this goal by exploiting and developing our existing oil and natural gas properties and pursuing strategic acquisitions of additional properties.
Developing and Exploiting Existing Properties
We believe that there is significant value to be created by drilling the identified undeveloped opportunities on our properties. As of December 31, 2019, we owned interests in a total of 54,334 gross (45,594 net) developed acres and operate the vast majority of our acreage position. In addition, as of December 31, 2019, we owned interests in approximately 112,029 gross (76,801 net) undeveloped acres. While our near term plans are focused towards drilling wells on our existing acreage to develop the potential contained therein, our long term plans also include continuing to evaluate acquisition and leasing opportunities.
Pursuing Profitable Acquisitions
We have historically pursued acquisitions of properties that we believe to have exploitation and development potential comparable to our existing inventory of drilling locations. We have developed and refined an acquisition program designed to increase reserves and complement our existing core properties. We have an experienced team of management and engineering professionals who identify and evaluate acquisition opportunities, negotiate and close purchases and manage acquired properties.
Summary of Oil and Natural Gas Properties and Projects
Significant Operations
Northwest Shelf - Gaines, Yoakum, Runnels and Coke County, Texas and Lea County, New Mexico - In 2019, we acquired properties consisting of 49,754 gross (38,230 net) acres with an average working interest of 77% and an average net revenue interest of 58%. As of December 31, 2019, our acreage position in these counties is 48,188 gross (36,599 net) acres with 11,723 gross (8,085 net) developed and held by production and 36,465 gross (28,514 net) being undeveloped. We believe the Northwest Shelf leases contain a considerable number of remaining potential drilling locations. Our reserve estimates include 69 proved horizontal and 13 non-operated horizontal PUD wells. Our reserve estimates include the capital costs required to develop these wells.
Central Basin Platform - Andrews and Gaines County, Texas leases - In 2011, we acquired a 100% working interest and a 75% net revenue interest in the Company’s initial leases in Andrews and Gaines counties. Since that time, we have acquired working and net revenue interests in additional producing leases and acquired additional undeveloped acreage in and around our Andrews County and Gaines county leases. The working interests range from 1-100% and the net revenue interests range from 1-80%. In total as of December 31, 2019, we own 97,956 gross (65,799 net), acres with 23,288 gross (18,372 net) acres developed and held by production and the remaining 74,669 gross (47,427 net) acres being undeveloped. We believe the Central Basin Platform leases contain a considerable number of remaining potential drilling locations. Our reserve estimates include 40 proven vertical and 29 horizontal PUD wells. Our reserve estimates include the capital costs required to develop these wells.
Delaware Basin - Culberson and Reeves County, Texas leases - In 2015, we acquired properties consisting of 19,983 gross (19,679 net) acres with an average working interest of 98% and an average net revenue interest of 79%. Since that time, we have acquired additional undeveloped acreage in and around our Culberson and Reeves County leases. In total as of December 31, 2019, we own 20,219 gross (19,998 net) acres with 19,323 gross (19,138 net) acres developed and held by production and the remaining 896 gross (860 net) acres being undeveloped. We believe the Delaware Basin leases contain a considerable number of remaining potential drilling locations. Our reserve estimates include 43 proved vertical and 4 horizontal PUD wells. Our reserve estimates include the capital costs required to develop these wells.
Title to Properties
We generally conduct a preliminary title examination prior to the acquisition of properties or leasehold interests. Prior to commencement of operations on such acreage, a thorough title examination is usually conducted and any significant defects are remedied before proceeding with operations. We believe the title to our leasehold properties is good, defensible and customary with practices in the oil and natural gas industry, subject to such exceptions that we believe do not materially detract from the use of such properties. With respect to our properties of which we are not the record owner, we rely on contracts with the owner or operator of the property or assignment of leases, pursuant to which, among other things, we generally have the right to have our interest placed on record.
Our properties are generally subject to royalty, overriding royalty and other interests customary in the industry, liens incident to agreements, current taxes and other customary burdens, minor encumbrances, easements and restrictions. We do not believe any of these burdens will materially interfere with our use of these properties.
Summary of Oil and Natural Gas Reserves
As of December 31, 2019, our estimated proved reserves had a pre-tax PV10 value of approximately $6 million and a Standardized Measure of Discounted Future Cash Flows of approximately $455.9 million, 100% of which relates to our properties in the Permian Basin in Texas and New Mexico. We spent approximately $624.4 million on acquisitions and capital projects during 2018 and 2019. We expect to further develop these properties through additional drilling.
The following table summarizes our total net proved reserves, pre-tax PV10 value and Standardized Measure of Discounted Future Net Cash Flows as of December 31, 2019. All of our reserves are in the Permian Basin in the States of Texas and New Mexico.
The Company presents the pre-tax PV10 value, which is a non-GAAP financial measure, because it is a widely used industry standard which we believe is useful to those who may review this Annual Report when comparing our asset base and performance to other comparable oil and natural gas exploration and production companies.
Reserve Quantity Information
Our estimates of proved reserves and related valuations are based on internally prepared reports and audited by Cawley, Gillespie & Associates, Inc., independent petroleum engineers. The estimates of proved reserves are inherently imprecise and are continually subject to revision based on production history, results of additional exploration and development, price changes and other factors.
Our oil and natural gas reserves are attributable solely to properties within the United States. A summary of the changes in quantities of proved (developed and undeveloped) oil and natural gas reserves is shown below.
Our proved oil and natural gas reserves are shown below.
Standardized Measure of Discounted Future Net Cash Flows
Our standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows relating to proved oil and natural gas reserves and changes in the standardized measure as described below were prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.
Future income tax expenses are calculated by applying appropriate year-end tax rates to future pre-tax net cash flows relating to proved oil and natural gas reserves, less the tax basis of properties involved. Future income tax expenses give effect to permanent differences, tax credits and loss carryforwards relating to the proved oil and natural gas reserves. Future net cash flows are discounted at a rate of 10% annually to derive the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows. This calculation procedure does not necessarily result in an estimate of the fair market value or the present value of our oil and natural gas properties.
Our reserve estimates as of December 31, 2019 are based on an average price of $52.41 for oil and $1.47 for natural gas compared to $58.74 for oil and $3.26 for natural gas as of December 31, 2018.
The standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows relating to the proved oil and natural gas reserves are shown below.
The changes in the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows relating to the proved oil and natural gas reserves are shown below.
Our proved reserves by state as of December 31, 2019 are summarized in the table below.
Proved Reserves
We have approximately 81.1 million BOE of proved reserves, consisting of approximately 88% oil and 12% natural gas, as summarized in the table above as of December 31, 2019, on a net pre-tax PV10 value and Standardized Measure of Discounted Future Net Cash Flows basis. Our reserve estimates have not been filed with any Federal authority or agency (other than the SEC).
As of December 31, 2019, approximately 53% of the proved reserves have been classified as proved developed producing, or “PDP”. Proved developed non-producing, or “PDNP” reserves constitute approximately 5% and proved undeveloped, or “PUD”, reserves constitute approximately 42%, of the proved reserves.
As of December 31, 2019, our total proved reserves had a net pre-tax PV10 value of approximately $1.1 billion and a Standardized Measure of Discounted Future Net Cash Flows of approximately $923.2 million. Approximately $651.0 million and $544.9 million, respectively, of total proved reserves are associated with the PDP reserves, which is approximately 59% of the total proved reserves’ pre-tax PV10 value. An additional $62.8 million and $52.5 million, respectively, are associated with the PDNP reserves, which is approximately 6% of total proved reserves’ pre-tax PV10 value. The remaining $389.1 million and $325.7 million, respectively, are associated with PUD reserves.
Proved Undeveloped Reserves
Our reserve estimates as of December 31, 2019 include approximately 35.1 million BOE as proved undeveloped reserves. As of December 31, 2018, our reserve estimates included approximately 12.0 million BOE as proved undeveloped reserves. Below is a description of the changes in our PUD reserves from December 31, 2018 to December 31, 2019.
During the year ended December 31, 2019, we incurred costs of approximately $33.9 million to convert 6,046,028 BOE of reserves from PUD to PDP through development.
Other changes to our PUD reserves included:
●Purchase of minerals in place of 28,427,806 BOE, primarily from the Wishbone Acquisition;
●Sale of minerals in place of 709,208 BOE by selling a non-operated interest in wells and acreage acquired in the Wishbone Acquisition;
●Extensions and discoveries of 5,394,118 BOE;
●Upward revisions of 1,769,661 BOE as the result of a reduction in lease operating expenses in certain areas and improved offsetting production due to pump optimization and improved completion practices;
●Downward revisions of 2,794,713 BOE as the result of well performance due to reduction of offsetting production;
●Downward revisions of 1,506,746 BOE as the result of changes in commodity prices; and
●Downward revision of 2,446,347 BOE for the removal of locations due to lack of development within the prescribed time frame as the result of changes in our development plan following the Wishbone Acquisition and the removal of locations added as part of the Wishbone Acquisition that were removed because the offsetting justification was inactive and had been reduced to a PDNP category.
Estimated Costs Related to Conversion of Proved Undeveloped Reserves to Proved Developed Reserves
The following table indicates projected reserves that we currently estimate will be converted from proved undeveloped or proved developed non-producing to proved developed, as well as the estimated costs per year involved in such development.
Internal Controls Over Reserves Estimates
All of our proved reserves estimates shown in this Annual Report on Form 10-K at December 31, 2019, have been independently prepared by Cawley, Gillespie & Associates (“CGA”), a leader of petroleum property analysis for industry and financial institutions. CGA was founded in 1960 and performs consulting petroleum engineering services under Texas Board of Professional Engineers Registration No.. Within CGA, the technical person primarily responsible for preparing the estimates set forth in the CGA letter dated January 30, 2020, filed as an exhibit to this Annual Report on Form 10-K, was Mr. Zane Meekins. Mr. Meekins has been a practicing consulting petroleum engineer at CGA since 1989. Mr. Meekins is a Registered Professional Engineer in the State of Texas (License No. 71055) and has over 30 years of practical experience in petroleum engineering, with over 30 years of experience in the estimation and evaluation of reserves. He graduated from Texas A&M University in 1987 with a Bachelor of Science degree in Petroleum Engineering. Mr. Meekins meets or exceeds the education, training, and experience requirements set forth in the Standards Pertaining to the Estimating and Auditing of Oil and Gas Reserves Information promulgated by the Society of Petroleum Engineers; he is proficient in judiciously applying industry standard practices to engineering and geoscience evaluations as well as applying SEC and other industry reserve definitions and guidelines.
The Company provides its third party independent consultants, including CGA, with full access to complete and accurate information pertaining to the property, and to all applicable personnel of the Company. Our reserves estimates and process for developing such estimates are reviewed and approved by our Vice President of Operations, Daniel D. Wilson, a petroleum engineer, and our Chief Executive Officer, Kelly Hoffman, to ensure compliance with SEC disclosure and internal control requirements and to verify the independence of the third party consultants. Mr. Wilson, a petroleum engineer and businessman, has over 30 years of experience in operating, evaluating and exploiting oil and natural gas properties. Mr. Hoffman has over 40 years of well-rounded experience in the oil and natural gas industry. Our management is ultimately responsible for reserve estimates and reserve disclosures and ensuring that they are in accordance with the applicable regulatory requirements and industry standards and practices.
Estimates of oil and natural gas reserves are projections based on a process involving an independent third party engineering firm’s collection of all required geologic, geophysical, engineering and economic data, and such firm’s complete external preparation of all required estimates and are forward-looking in nature. These reports rely upon various assumptions, including assumptions required by the SEC, such as constant oil and natural gas prices, operating expenses and future capital costs. The process also requires assumptions relating to availability of funds and timing of capital expenditures for development of our proved undeveloped reserves. These reports should not be construed as the current market value of our reserves. The process of estimating oil and natural gas reserves is also dependent on geological, engineering and economic data for each reservoir. Because of the uncertainties inherent in the interpretation of this data, we cannot be certain that the reserves will ultimately be realized and our actual results could differ materially.
Summary of Oil and Natural Gas Properties and Projects
Production Summary
Our estimated average daily production for the month of December 2019 is summarized below. The following table indicates the percentage of our estimated December 2019 average daily production of 11,498 BOE/d attributable to oil versus natural gas production.
Acreage
The following table summarizes gross and net developed and undeveloped acreage at December 31, 2019 by region (net acreage is our percentage ownership of gross acreage). Acreage in which our interest is limited to royalty and overriding royalty interests is excluded.
Leases of undeveloped acreage will generally expire at the end of their respective primary terms unless production from such leasehold acreage has been established prior to expiration of such primary term. If production is established on such acreage, the lease will generally remain in effect until the cessation of production from such acreage and is referred to in the industry as “Held-By-Production” or “HBP.” Leases of undeveloped acreage may terminate or expire as a result of not meeting certain drilling commitments, if any, or otherwise by not complying with the terms of a lease depending on the specific terms that are negotiated between lessor and lessee.
The following table sets forth the gross and net undeveloped acreage, as of December 31, 2019, under lease which would expire over the next three years unless (i) production is established on the lease or within a spacing unit of which the lease is participating, or (ii) the lease is renewed or extended prior to the relevant expiration dates:
Production History
The following table presents the historical information about our produced natural gas and oil volumes for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2018 and 2019:
Production Prices and Production Costs
The following tables provides historical pricing and costs statistics for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2018 and 2019.
The average oil sales price amounts above are calculated by dividing revenue from oil sales by the volume of oil sold, in barrels “Bbl”. The average natural gas sales price amounts above are calculated by dividing revenue from natural gas sales by the volume of natural gas sold, in thousand cubic feet “Mcf”. The total average sales price amounts are calculated by dividing total revenues by total volume sold, in BOE. The average production costs above are calculated by dividing production costs by total production in BOE.
Productive Wells
The following table presents our ownership at December 31, 2019, in productive oil and natural gas wells (a net well is our percentage ownership of a gross well). All of such wells are in the Permian Basin in Texas and New Mexico.
Drilling Activity
During 2019, we drilled 30 gross (29.33 net) wells in the Central Basin Platform, Delaware Basin and Northwest Shelf in the Permian Basin. We completed and placed on production all 30 of these wells. All of these wells were successful and there were no dry wells.
The table below contains information regarding the number of wells completed during the periods indicated. Each of these wells was drilled in the Permian Basin, on the Northwest Shelf, Central Basin Platform or Delaware Basin.
(1)All of the wells drilled by the Company to date, with the exception of those wells included in the row for exploratory dry wells in the table above, have been development wells. The Company considers the exploratory dry wells to be “science wells”. “Science well” is a term used in the industry to describe a well that is drilled for purposes of determining the stratigraphic composition of a particular area, and is not intended to be completed to produce any oil or natural gas. Since these exploratory wells have not been completed for production, we have designated them as dry wells.
Present Activities
There were no wells in the process of being drilled or awaiting completion as of December 31, 2019.
Cost Information
We conduct our oil and natural gas activities entirely in the United States. As noted in the table under “Production Prices and Production Costs”, our average production costs, per BOE, were $11.11, $12.45 and $12.28 during the years ended December 31, 2017, 2018 and 2019, respectively, and our average production taxes, per BOE, were $2.19, $2.52 and $2.31 for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2018 and 2019, respectively. These amounts are calculated by dividing our total production costs or total production taxes by our total volume sold, in BOE.
Costs incurred for property acquisition, exploration and development activities during the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2019 are shown below:
(1)Wishbone Acquisition in 2019 includes $28.3 million in fair value of stock issued as consideration in acquisitions.
(2)Acquisition of proved properties in 2018 includes $11.2 million in fair value of stock issued as consideration in acquisitions.
Other Properties and Commitments
Our principal executive offices are in leased office space in Midland, Texas. The leased office space consists of approximately 15,000 square feet. Additionally, we lease office space in Tulsa, Oklahoma which serves as our primary accounting office and consists of approximately 3,700 square feet. We also lease office space in Andrews, Texas for a field office consisting of approximately 2,000 square feet. We expect our current office space to be adequate as we move forward.
Item 3: