ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
Our mineral properties are:
Valolo Claim
With funds advanced by one of our directors we identified and acquired a mineral property that we consider holds the potential to contain gold mineralization. On March 1, 2007 we purchased, for $5,000, the Valolo Gold Claim (hereinafter the “Valolo Claim”) from The Valolo Group, LLC. an independent prospecting company based in Fiji. The Valolo Claim is situated approximately 9 miles south of the town of Korovou, on the island of Viti Levu, the largest and most populous island in the Republic of Fiji.
In March 2007 we engaged Naresh Bhatt, P. Geol., to conduct a review and analysis of the Valolo Claim and the previous exploration work undertaken on the property and to recommend a mineral exploration program for the Valolo Claim. Mr. Bhatt’s report titled “Summary of Exploration on the Valolo Property, Korovou, Fiji” dated March 11, 2007 (the “Bhatt Report”) recommends a two-phase exploration program for the Valolo Claim.
We raised $750 in initial seed capital on July 11, 2007 in order to provide some working capital for the Company and we also closed, on July 31, 2007, a private placement pursuant to Regulation S of the Securities Act of 1933, whereby 501,000 common shares were sold at the price of $0.05 per share to raise $25,050.
We intend to undertake exploration work on the Valolo Claim. We are presently in the pre-exploration stage and there is no assurance that mineralized material with any commercial value exits on our property. We do not have any ore body and have not generated any revenues from our operations. Our planned exploration work is exploratory in nature. We are the registered and beneficial owner of a 100% interest in the Valolo Claim located in the Republic of Fiji.
The Valolo Claim covers an area of approximately 72.5 hectares (approximately 179 acres).
Location and Access
The Valolo Claim is located approximately 15 kilometers (9 miles) south of Korovou, Fiji. The area covered by the Claim is an active mineral exploration and development region with plenty of heavy equipment and operators available for hire. Korovou provides all necessary amenities and supplies including, fuel, helicopter services, hardware, drilling companies and assay services. Access to our Claim is via major highway west from Korovou. No water is required for the purposes of our planned exploration work. No electrical power is required at this stage of exploration. Any electrical power that might be required in the foreseeable future could be supplied by gas powered portable generators.
The claim’s terrain is rugged with elevations ranging from of 1,420 feet to 2,650 feet. Tropical mountain forests grow at lower elevations in the northeast corner of the claim and good rock exposure is found along the peaks and ridges in the eastern portion of the claim. The climate is mild year round with the rainy season falling from May to October.
Property Geology
A belt of volcanic rocks, of the Savura Volcanic Group, underlies the property. These volcanic rocks are exposed along a wide axial zone of a broad complex. The presence of these rocks is on our property is relevant to us as gold mineralization, at the nearby (approximately 20 miles to the west of our claim) Nasoata Gold Mine, a past producer of gold in commercial quantities, is generally concentrated within extrusive volcanic rocks (of the Savura Volcanic Group) on the walls of large volcanic caldera.
The main igneous intrusions consist of ‘Medrausucu’ or theoretic gabbros, tonalities and tondjhemites.
Theoletic Gabbros, for example, are generally are a greenish or dark coloured fine to coarse grained rock. Irregular shaped masses of so called "soda granite" are seen in both sharp and gradational contact with the diorite. The different phases of Medrausucu are exposed from north of the Valolo Gold Claim to just east of the town of Korovou and are principal host rocks for gold veins at the previously active Nasoata Gold Mine, approximately 20 kilometers away.
On a regional basis the area of Fiji in which the Valolo Claim is located is notable for epi-thermal type gold deposits such as that exploited at the Nasoata Gold Mine. While no mineralization has been reported for the area covered by the Valolo Claim, structures and shear zones affiliated with mineralization on adjacent properties pass through the claim.
Previous Exploration
To our knowledge based on examination by our geologist of available records, no detailed exploration has previously been undertaken on the area covered by the Valolo Claim.
However, numerous showings of mineralization have been discovered in the area and several prospects in the area have achieved significant gold production (an aggregate of 1.11 million ounces of gold reported between 1956 and 2002) in the past. The same rock units, of the Savura Volcanic Group that are found at those mineral occurrences underlie our claim. The Bhatt’ Report has concluded that further exploration of the Valolo Claim is warranted.
No assurance, however, can be given that any mineralization will found on the Valolo Claim.
Proposed Exploration Work - Plan of Operation
The Bhatt’ Report recommends a phased exploration program to properly evaluate the potential of the Valolo Claim. Mr. Bhatt is a registered member in good standing of the Geological Society of Fiji. He is a graduate of University of Queensland, Brisbane, Australia with both a Bachelor of Science degree, Geology (1971) and a Master of Science (1975). Mr. Bhatt has practiced his profession as a geologist for over 33 years. He visited our claim in March 2007.
We must conduct exploration to determine what minerals exist on our property and whether they can be economically extracted and profitably processed. We plan to proceed with exploration of the Valolo Claim by completing Phase I of the work recommended in the Bhatt Report, in order to begin determining the potential for discovering commercially exploitable deposits of gold on our claim.
We have not discovered any ores or reserves on the Valolo Claim, our sole mineral property. Our planned Phase I work is exploratory in nature.
The Bhatt Report recommends a two-phase exploration program to properly evaluate the potential of the claim. Phase I work will consist of geological mapping and geophysical surveying. This will involve, among other things, establishing a grid and the creation of maps showing all features of the terrain of our claim. We will create an actual grid on the ground whereby items can be related one to another more easily and with greater accuracy. When we map, we will actually draw a scale map of the area and make notes on it as to the location where anything (e.g. potential mineralization) was found that was of interest. In the process we will also identify any showings which appear to warrant sampling, i.e. any rock formations that appear to warrant our taking soil and rock samples from the claims to a laboratory where a determination of the elemental make-up of the sample and the exact concentrations of gold and other indicator minerals can be made. We anticipate, based on the estimate contained in the Bhatt Report, that Phase I work will cost approximately$10,900 (Fiji $17,800). The Valolo Claim is located in a tropical climatic area so the claim can be worked year round. We anticipate completing Phase I before the end of the late fall of 2010 or early spring of 2011.
Should Phase I results warrant further work, and provided we are able to raise additional funds to undertake additional work on the Valolo Claim, we would undertake the Phase II work recommended in the Bhatt’ Report. The Phase II geochemical and surface sampling work would be designed to compare the relative concentrations of gold and other indicator minerals in samples so the results from different samples can be compared in a more precise manner and plotted on a map to evaluate their significance.
If an apparent mineralized zone(s) is identified and narrowed down to a specific area by the Phase I & II work, we would then consider (again subject to our ability to raise additional funds to do so) the feasibility of diamond drilling selected targets to test the apparent mineralized zones. The cost of such a program, assuming it is warranted, cannot be estimated at this time.
The recommended Phase II work is estimated to cost a further $13,860 (Fiji $22,700). At this point we have funds available to complete Phase I only. We will have to raise additional capital in order to carry out Phase II, work or any other work beyond Phase I. Particularly since we have a limited operating history, no reserves and no revenue, our ability to raise additional funds might be limited. If we are unable to raise the necessary funds, we would be required to suspend Siga’s operations and liquidate our company. See, particularly, ‘Risk Factors beginning on page 5.
There are no permanent facilities, plants, buildings or equipment on the Valolo Claim.
Competitive Factors
The mining industry is highly fragmented. We are competing with many other exploration companies looking for gold. We are among the smallest exploration companies in existence and are an infinitely small participant in the mining business which is the cornerstone of the founding and early stage development of the mining industry. While we generally compete with other exploration companies, there is no competition for the exploration or removal of minerals from our claims. Readily available markets exist for the sale of gold. Therefore, we will likely be able to sell any gold that we are able to recover, in the event commercial quantities are discovered on the Valolo Claims. There is no ore body on the Valolo Claims.
Government Regulation
Exploration activities are subject to various national, state, foreign and local laws and regulations in Fiji, which govern prospecting, development, mining, production, exports, taxes, labor standards, occupational health, waste disposal, protection of the environment, mine safety, hazardous substances and other matters. We believe that we are in compliance in all material respects with applicable mining, health, safety and environmental statutes and the regulations passed there under in Fiji.
Environmental Regulation
Our exploration activities are subject to various federal, state and local laws and regulations governing protection of the environment. These laws are continually changing and, as a general matter, are becoming more restrictive. Our policy is to conduct business in a way that safeguards public health and the environment. We believe that our exploration activities are conducted in material compliance with applicable laws and regulations. Changes to current local, state or federal laws and regulations in the jurisdictions where we operate could require additional capital expenditures and increased operating and/or reclamation costs. Although we are unable to predict what additional legislation, if any, might be proposed or enacted, additional regulatory requirements could render certain exploration activities uneconomic.
Employees
Initially, we intend to use the services of subcontractors for labor exploration work on our claim. At present, we have no employees as such although each of our officers and directors devotes a portion of their time to the affairs of the Company. None of our officers and directors has an employment agreement with us. We presently do not have pension, health, annuity, insurance, profit sharing or similar benefit plans; however, we may adopt such plans in the future. There are presently no personal benefits available to any employee.
As indicated above we will hire subcontractors on an as needed basis. We have not entered into negotiations or contracts with any of potential subcontractors. We do not intend to initiate negotiations or hire anyone until we are nearing the time of commencement of our planned exploration activities.
There are no permanent facilities, plants, buildings or equipment on our mineral claim.
Mineralization
No mineralization has been reported for the area of the property but structures and shear zones affiliated with mineralization on adjacent properties pass through it.
Exploration
Previous exploration work has not included any attempt to drill the structure on Valolo Claim. Records indicate that no detailed exploration has been completed on the property.
Adjacent Properties
The adjacent properties are cited as examples of the type of deposit that has been discovered in the area and are not major facets to this report.
Recommendations by Mr. Bhatt, Professional Geologist
A two phased exploration program to further delineate the mineralized system currently recognized on Valolo Claim is recommended. The program would consist of air photo interpretation of the structures, geological mapping, both regionally and detailed on the area of the main showings, geophysical survey using both magnetic and electromagnetic instrumentation in detail over the area of the showings and in a regional reconnaissance survey and geochemical soil sample surveying regionally to identify other areas on the claim that are mineralized and in detail on the known areas of mineralization. The effort of this exploration work is to define and enable interpretation of a follow-up diamond drill program, so that the known mineralization and the whole property can be thoroughly evaluated with the most up to date exploration techniques.
The proposed budget for the recommended work in FJD 40,500 (US $24,760) is as follows:
Phase I
Fijian Dollars
U.S. Dollars
1. Geological mapping and Surveying
17,800
$ 10,900
Total Phase I
17,800
$ 10,900
Phase II
1. Geochemical surveying and surface sampling (includes sample collection and assaying)
22,700
$ 13,860
Total Phase II
22,700
$ 13,860
Total Exploration
40,500
$ 24,760
We intend to complete Phase I exploration work on the Valolo Claim, our sole property. No exact date has been determined for the commencement of exploration work on the Valolo Claim.
Particularly since we have a limited operating history, no reserves and no revenue, our ability to raise additional funds might be limited. If we are unable to raise the necessary funds, we would be required to suspend Siga's operations and liquidate our company.
There are no permanent facilities, plants, buildings or equipment on the Valolo claim.
Lucky Thirteen Claim
On September 24, 2010, the Company has entered into an earn-in agreement with Touchstone Ventures Inc., a British Columbia Company, whereby it can earn an 80% interest in Touchstone Ventures Inc.’s wholly owned subsidiary company, Touchstone Precious Metals Inc., a British Columbia Company (“Touchstone”), by investing ten million Canadian dollars (CAD$10,000,000) for acquisition and development costs. The initial investment is for three hundred and five thousand Canadian dollars (CAD$305,000) to determine and confirm the resource and develop other information requisite to completing the projects’ production design.
We will earn 20% of the outstanding capital of TPM upon our subsequent advance of CAD$200,000 to TPM; additional 20% will be earned upon receipt of mining certificate by TPM and advances of a further $4,350,000 to TPM; and an additional 40% upon advances of a further $5,145,000 to TPM. The overriding royalties on the Luck 13 Claim are 3% net smelter. Prior to payment of $1.5 million by TPM to the $1.5 million owed to Peter Osha, the royalty rates are Floating Rate Royalties determined by the price of gold such that when gold is at $500/oz. the royalty rate is 5%; $750/oz. - 7.5%; and $1,000/oz - 10%.
The Claim is located in the New Westminster Mining Division, British Columbia, Map Number 092H:
Claim Name
Area Tenure
Type
Tenure Number
Expiry Date
Lucky Thirteen
168.157 ha
Placer
December 1, 2010
The Placer Claim is owned 100% by Mr. Peter Osha (B.C. Free Miner #120343) and the Claim is in Good Standing.
Location and Access
The Lucky Thirteen Claim is located approximately 5 kilometers (3 miles) north of Hope British Columbia. The area where the claim is located is an active mineral exploration and development region with heavy equipment and operators available for hire. Hope provides all necessary amenities and supplies including, fuel, hardware, drilling companies and assay services. Access to our Claim is via Trans Canada north from Hope. Any electrical power that might be required in the foreseeable future could be supplied by BC Hydro grid.
The placer gravel bar that the claim covers is accessible by an existing logging road. The climate is mild year round with the rainy season falling from October to May.
Property Geology
The Lucky Thirteen claim is covered by Tertiary Gravels forming a stratified sequence of cobble and pebble gravels, sands and silts. The total thickness is unknown at this time.
Previous Exploration
The Lucky Thirteen has a history of exploration and minor production attempts going back to the mid 1850s. Most of this work was poorly documented until the past 3 decades and concentrated generally on free gold. A series of tests and assays by several operators including the current owner, from various areas and depths have established that the gravels are auriferous, and that the black sand concentrates contain gold and platinum group minerals that may be present in economic amounts.
Proposed Exploration Work - Plan of Operation
The current plan of operations is to grid sample areas of the property by trenching and/or drilling. The material recovered and sampled will be run through an on-site washing and recovery plant. Samples taken representatively will be assayed by qualified assay laboratories, with the information derived used to recommend specific mining areas, design the mining plan itself and determine most efficient recovery methods to be applied to the concentrates derived from the process.
The seismic survey; trenching and sample program; screen analysis; and assays; is designed to investigate depth to bedrock, sand and gravel strata, previous workings, and placer mineral continuity. All work will be conducted by local qualified independent professional engineers, mine operators, accountants and administrators.
Phase I Work Program Estimate
Placer Mineral Tenure #52082
Option Deposit
$ 50,000
Placer Mineral Tenure # 523082
Claim to Lease
5,000
Seismic Survey
Frontier GeoScience Ltd.- Russell Hillman P.Eng
33,380
Road Upgrade to CPR Track
Triple O Contracting
10,000
CPR Track Crossing
Triple O Contracting-CPR
10,000
Bonding & Insurance
10,000
Survey-12 Trenches (40' ea) 10' sample increments = 48 samples
Triple O
36,000
48 Samples Processed
Triple O Contracting
36,000
48 Assays
10,000
Pit Design
P.Eng (Mining)
5,000
Process Design
P.Eng (Metallurgical)
5,000
Contingency Reserve
Development Budget Total
$ 305,000
The Operational Budget reflects the current estimated Property Acquisition and Capital and Operating Costs to place the property into production at the earliest possible date. The operational budget detail may be modified as a result of the current recommended work program, however, no increase in estimated costs are anticipated.
Property Acquisition Budget Estimate
Property Acquisition
$ 5,145,000
Operational Budget Estimate
Road
$305,000
Operating Equipment & Buildings
3,477,126
Working Capital
517,290
Professional Fees
225,584
Operational Budget
4,555,000
Total Required Capital
$ 10,000,000
Bulk testing schedule
The following is an estimate to conduct a bulk sampling program on the Lucky Thirteen Property.
·
The test program to consist of a series trenches to a maximum depth of 40 foot minimum.
·
A bulk sample to be taken every 10 feet vertically
·
All trenches will be backfilled upon completion of test.
·
A screening plant will be set up near the excavation.
The overburden will be removed and placed elsewhere on the claim. All gravel material excavated from the trench will be screened to different size fractions. The gravel on each screen will be weighed and the information recorded. The concentrate will be captured, weighed and processed for minerals. In Phase I the gold content of the concentrates will be recovered by a gravity method. The remaining concentrates will be stored and retained for further analysis for other precious metals and by-products in Phase II of the Work Program.
Between each test the screening plant will be washed down and cleaned up before the next test is carried out. The screening plant is then moved forward and the process is repeated. The excavators will then backfill the finished trench doing the reclamation on a continuous basis.
Competitive Factors
The mining industry is highly fragmented. We are competing with many other exploration companies looking for gold. We are among the smallest exploration companies in existence and are an infinitely small participant in the mining business which is the cornerstone of the founding and early stage development of the mining industry. While we generally compete with other exploration companies, there is no competition for the exploration or removal of minerals from our claims. Readily available markets exist for the sale of gold. Therefore, we will likely be able to sell any gold that we are able to recover, in the event commercial quantities are discovered on the Lucky Thirteen Claim.
Government Regulation
Exploration activities are subject to various national, provincial, foreign and local laws and regulations in British Columbia and Canada, which govern prospecting, development, mining, production, exports, taxes, labor standards, occupational health, waste disposal, protection of the environment, mine safety, hazardous substances and other matters. We believe that we are in compliance in all material respects with applicable mining, health, safety and environmental statutes and the regulations passed there under in British Columbia and Canada.
Environmental Regulation
Our exploration activities are subject to various federal, provincial and local laws and regulations governing protection of the environment. These laws are continually changing and, as a general matter, are becoming more restrictive. Our policy is to conduct business in a way that safeguards public health and the environment. We believe that our exploration activities are conducted in material compliance with applicable laws and regulations. Changes to current local, state or federal laws and regulations in the jurisdictions where we operate could require additional capital expenditures and increased operating and/or reclamation costs. Although we are unable to predict what additional legislation, if any, might be proposed or enacted, additional regulatory requirements could render certain exploration activities uneconomic.
Employees
Initially, we intend to use the services of subcontractors for labor exploration work on our claim. At present, we have no employees as such although each of our officers and directors devotes a portion of their time to the affairs of the Company. None of our officers and directors has an employment agreement with us. We presently do not have pension, health, annuity, insurance, profit sharing or similar benefit plans; however, we may adopt such plans in the future. There are presently no personal benefits available to any employee.
As indicated above we will hire subcontractors on an as needed basis. We have not entered into negotiations or contracts with any of potential subcontractors. We do not intend to initiate negotiations or hire anyone until we are nearing the time of commencement of our planned exploration activities.
There are no permanent facilities, plants, buildings or equipment on our mineral claim.
Mineralization
The mineralization contained within the Lucky Thirteen is placer gold and heavy black sands derived from the erosion and subsequent re-deposition over many millennia, of material derived from the current and historic highlands above the Fraser River Drainage. The placer deposits were formed at the point where the erosional processes, (generally water borne but sometimes wind and mass wasting) lost the energy necessary to continue to carry the material further down stream in the drainage system. The Fraser River has also caused continuing material movement in its annual cycles of varying flows.
Exploration
Exploration has been known in the area since the mid 1850s, but generally has not been via modern methods of mining, washing and concentration. The current work plan is the first known that will combine current state of the art extraction and processing methods to the auriferous gravels in the Lucky Thirteen area.
Adjacent Properties
There are possible expansions to the project properties in the general area but there is no current intent to add acreage to the project until the deposit is better evaluated.
Recommendations
by T.L. Sadlier-Browm, Professional Geologist
Investment Policies
Siga does not have an investment policy at this time. Any excess funds it has on hand will be deposited in interest bearing notes such as term deposits or short term money instruments. There are no restrictions on what the directors are able to invest. Presently Siga does not have any cash.
ITEM 3.