ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
On April 21, 2016, we staked 31 mining claims consisting of 329 mining units and totaling 13,008 acres of vacant land in the townships of Frecheville, Stoughton, and Mistaken Islands in Northeastern Ontario, Canada. Ontario's Ministry of Northern Development and Mines issued 31 claim numbers for these claims. The Company owns a 100% interest in these claims, and has named them the "Ponderosa" property. We have no plans to explore the Ponderosa claims at this time, as our current focus is on exploring the Big Monty Claims and completing the terms of the Flex Agreement.
We have entered into an Equity Participation and Earn-In Agreement with Flex Mining Ltd. on the following property
Big Monty Claims
The Big Monty Claims consist of the following 6 mining claims in Northern Ontario:
Location and Access
The Big Monty Claims are located approximately 70 km (44 miles) north of Kirkland Lake, Ontario, and 68 km east of Timmins, Ontario (42 miles). The property is located approximately 10 km (6 miles) east of Matheson, Ontario. The area surrounding the Claims is an active mineral exploration and development region with numerous operational resources, including heavy equipment and operators, available for hire. Both Kirkland Lake and Timmins can provide all necessary services, amenities and supplies, including fuel, helicopter services, hardware, drilling companies and assay services. The Big Monty Claims are located in the historic Abitibi Greenstone Belt in Northern Ontario. The Abitibi Greenstone Belt is an established gold mining district that has produced over 100 mines and 180 million ounces of gold since 1901. The Big Monty Claims are strategically located between Kirkland Lake and Timmins - two iconic gold manufacturing cities in the region. The Big Monty Claims cover approximately 2,760 acres, and lie within the prolific Porcupine-Destor Fault Zone ("PDFZ").
Access to our Claims is obtained by major highway east of Matheson, Ontario.
Industry
By industry standards, there are generally four types of mining companies. We are considered an "exploration stage" company. Typically, an exploration stage mining company is focused on exploration to identify new, commercially viable gold deposits. "Junior mining companies" typically have proven and probable reserves of less than one million ounces of gold, generally produce less than 100,000 ounces of gold annually, and/or are in the process of trying to raise enough capital to fund the remainder of the steps required to move from a staked claim to production. "Mid-tier" and large mining "senior" companies may have several projects in production plus several million ounces of gold in reserve.
Several factors and recent developments related to the gold mining and exploration industry are favorable to our Company. For example, the spot market price of an ounce of gold increased from a low of $253 in February 2001 to a high of $1,895 in September 2011 and $1,252.10 at the end of November 2013. This market price increase has made it more economically feasible to produce gold, and has made gold a more attractive investment for many. Accordingly, the gross margin per ounce of gold produced per the historical spot market price range above provides significant profit potential if we are successful in identifying and extracting gold on our properties. Further, gold reserves have generally been declining for a number of years for the following reasons:
·
The extended period of low gold prices from 1996 to 2001 made it economically unfeasible for most companies to explore for new deposits; and
·
The demand for, and production of, gold products have exceeded the amount of new reserves added over the last several consecutive years.
Plan of Operations
Our current focus is to raise capital and begin exploration activities on the Big Monty Claims. We have not discovered any ores or reserves on the Big Monty Claims. Our planned work is exploratory in nature.
The ultimate goal of our assessment work on the Big Monty Claims is to identify locations where we should drill for precious metals. To achieve that goal, using the data that is available to us, various assumptions must be made regarding the potential for mineralization on our properties. For example, if the assumption is that gold will be associated with quartz/felsic intrusions, then the southwestern corner of claim 4282128 represents a reasonable target area. If it is further assumed that mineralization is associated with fault structures, then the northeast trending Faults 3 and 4 should be focus areas for potential exploration locations. However, if mineralization is associated with massive sulfide intrusions, then the five elevated magnetic areas associated with the Fault are potential targets. Massive sulfides are usually associated with pyrite, which is only slightly magnetic. Mineralization may be associated with pyrhhotite and magnetite, which are common in sulfide intrusives. In conducting our exploration activities, we must interpret these various assumptions and make further assumptions of our own, which involves some risk. Moreover, it may take us years to determine whether there are commercially viable and exploitable minerals on our mineral properties. For a description of our mining claims, please refer to the section entitled "Description of Properties" in this Prospectus.
Our proposed field work will involve a phased exploration program to properly evaluate the potential for mineralization on the Big Monty Claims. We must conduct exploration to determine what minerals exist on our property, and whether such minerals can be economically extracted and profitably processed. We plan to proceed with exploration of the Big Monty Claims by drilling the quartz/felsic intrusion, as well as testing further the five elevated magnetic areas associated with the fault in order to begin determining the potential for discovering commercially exploitable deposits of gold on our mineral properties.
Our existing knowledge of the geology and structure of our mineral properties is insufficient to spot drill targets at this time. To date only nine rock samples have been taken, and none found more than trace values in precious or base metals. Potential problems may have been lack of outcrop and limited knowledge of the actual rock types, including structure and geology. Ten outcrop areas were found and the geologic evaluation was minimal. The existing report from 2013 does not indicate that rock fabric or strike and dip of features was performed. The report indicates that minimal exposures of bedrock were attempted under the thin cover of moss and lichens. The Porcupine-Destor Fault Zone ("PDFZ"), where the Big Monty Claims lie, is believed to run generally East-West through our property, with numerous Northeast-Southwest cross faults providing several intersecting structural features, which could possibly host economic mineralization. It is vital for us to investigate these potential fault intersections, as they are the most likely places to find buried mineralization.
Property Geology
Bedrock outcrops were found to be generally rare across all of the claims. This was due to vegetation and glacial till. Portions of the claims have been logged in recent years; particularly the northern portion of claim 4256645 and claims 4256646 and 4256647. However, the logged areas have re-vegetated with first generation plants (grasses, pines, scrub oaks, sumac, etc.) making it difficult to find bedrock exposures. Also, a significant portion of the claims area is covered with a veneer of glacial till of varying thicknesses. The till is described as a fine to medium grain arkosic sand with occasional pebble and gravel size clasts. This till dominates claims area south of the North Branch of the Porcupine-Destor Fault. The available bedrock outcrops are primarily found on claims 4255645, 4255646 and 4255647 due to recent logging and the glacial till being locally thinner at these claims. The observed bedrock is a massive fine-grained mafic volcanic rocks intruded with mafic rock characterized by pillow structures. Also observed was a northwest/southeast dike on claim 4255646. The dike rock is described as a medium-grain with visible feldspars and slightly magnetic. Finally, accessory minerals of pyrite and possible arsenopyrite were observed in several rocks. The general geochemistry is indicating the collect rocks are mafic being rich in iron and magnesium with low silica by weight. No significant concentrations of precious, base or rare earth elements were detected in the collected rocks. A belt of volcanic rocks, of the Savura Volcanic Group, underlies the property. These volcanic rocks are exposed along a wide axial zone of a broad complex. The presence of these rocks is on our property is relevant to us as gold mineralization, at the nearby (approximately 20 miles to the west of our claim) Nasoata Gold Mine, a past producer of gold in commercial quantities, is generally concentrated within extrusive volcanic rocks (of the Savura Volcanic Group) on the walls of large volcanic caldera.
The Big Monty Claims are located approximately 6 miles east of the town of Matheson (2,410 population)
Previous Exploration
On October 28, 2013, G3 - Gauvreau GeoEnvironmental Group Inc. prepared 2013 Claims Assessment Report. The work performed as part of the claims assessment necessary for the Big Monty Property to maintain the claims in good standing following the guidelines set forth by the Ontario Ministry of Northern Development and Mines (MNDM). The Big Monty Property is a northwest to southeast group of seven claims on Crown Land located west and south of Trollope Lake in Frecheville Township as illustrated on Figure 1. The claim numbers are the following: 4256641, 4256642, 4256644, 4256645, 4256646 and 4256647.
The assessment work for the claims is divided into three tasks:
1) Field Study performing geologic mapping and sampling
2) Magnetic Survey interpretation, and
3) Georeferencing.
The Big Monty claims were staked in September and October of 2010. These claims are geologically located in the Abitibi greenstone province. Structurally the claims lie along the central sector of the north branch of the Porcupine-Destor Fault. This Fault divides the claim’s lithostratographic assemblages north and south. The northern half of the claims has been mapped as Stoughton-Roquemaure Assemblage (27.25 to 27.20 Ma) (1). The southern and up side of the Fault has been mapped as the as the Kidd-Munro Assemblage (27.18 to 27.10 Ma) (1). The Stoughton-Roquemaure Assemblage is characterized by komatiitic basalt and low to high-Mg komatiite intrusives. Spinifex-textured and pillowed komatiites are common (2) while the Kidd-Monro Assemblage is described as assemblage as ultramafic and mafic, tholeiitic, metavolcanic rocks with minor high-silica rhyolite (1).
In the 2012 assessment period, an aerial magnetic survey was conducted on the Big Monty claims. The results from aerial magnetic survey produced a residual magnetic intensity map and a first vertical derivative of the residual magnetic intensity map. No corresponding geologic interpretation of the aerial magnetic survey was completed during that assessment period.
Field Study
A field study was performed beginning October 7 through October 11 and October 22, 2013. The purpose of the field study, where possible, was to complete the following:
·geological mapping,
·grab/hand rock sampling,
·geochemical sampling,
·structural mapping (faults, joints, fractures, etc.), and
·GPS locating of control points including claim corner posts and claim boundaries.
Nine rock samples were collected from various bedrock outcrops during the field study. These samples were Nine rock samples were collected from various bedrock outcrops during the field study. These samples were submitted to an Agat Laboratories in Sudbury, Ontario for chemical analyses.
The field geological mapping and chemical analysis data is used to tie the aerial magnetometer survey to observable and mapable bedrock conditions along with structures the Porcupine-Destor Fault Zone.
Aerial Magnetometer Survey Interpretation
The interpretation of the aerial magnetic survey interpretation was conducted using the data collected in the field. The results from aerial magnetic survey produced a residual magnetic intensity map and a first vertical derivative of the residual magnetic intensity map. The reader is reminded that a magnetic field has a direction or vector. Residual magnetic intensity is the remnant magnetic field before the rock has cooled below the Curie point and the magnetic field has been removed (3). This magnetism can be in any direction. The residual magnetic intensity is not only the magnetism from the first cooling event but the residual magnetism can be affected but subsequent events (magmatic or hydrothermal intrusion) that will affect the magnetic minerals in that formation.
The first vertical derivative of the residual magnetic intensity emphasizes near surface features by mathematically removing the inclination and declination of the field from the data. The transformed data views the same geologic structures as the residual magnetic intensity map, but with the magnetic pole’s field induced vertical. The first vertical derivative is calculated by measuring the magnetic field simultaneously at two points vertically above each other and dividing the difference in the magnetic intensities by the distance between the two points. Figure 3 illustrates the residual magnetic intensity. The north branch of the Porcupine-Destor Fault is the dividing line between high and low magnetic intensity.
The magnetic intensity decreases to the southwest of the Fault. Correspondingly, the magnetic intensity is elevated on the claims northeast of the Fault. Interestingly, off set movement of the low magnetic intensity to the northeast is illustrated by the faults labeled 2 and 3 movement to the northeast. The low magnetic intensity located in the southeastern part of the Big Monty claims can be interpreted to be the lack of magnetic minerals which may possibly be due to an underlying felsic intrusive body. The mafic dike on claim 4255646 was expected to have a clear magnetic signature especially considering the rock sample collected from the dike was slightly magnetized and had the highest iron concentration however no geometric magnetic signature mimicking the dike was observed.
As with the residual magnetic intensity map, areas of north of the Porcupine-Destor Fault illustrate relatively higher general magnetic intensity than areas south of the Fault, and the southwestern portion of claim 4256641 is also an area of low magnetic intensity. Five near circular areas of elevated magnetic intensity are interpreted along or paralleling to the Northern Branch of the Porcupine- Destor Fault in claims 4256641, 4256642 and 4256645. These features are interpreted to be intrusions characterized by rocks with significant magnetic minerals. The relationship of the intrusions to the Fault can be interpreted as these intrusions having been injected into the Fault.
Georeferencing
MNDM requires the claims to be in spatially correct location. Georeferencing was planned as part of the field study following the MNDM guidelines. During the Field Study each claim corner was found using a GPS. Unfortunately no claims post were found at or surrounding these GPS locations. A request for extension has been filed to complete the georeferencing and re-posting of the claims.
Proposed Exploration Work - Plan of Operation
The ultimate goal of the assessment work is to identify locations of where to drill for precious metals. To achieve that goal from the available data, various assumptions must be made regarding the interpretation for the potential of mineralization. For example, if the assumption is that gold will be associated with quartz/felsic intrusions then the southwestern corner of claim 4256640 represents a reasonable target area. If it is further assumed that mineralization is associated with fault structures, then the northeast trending Faults 3 and 4 should be focus areas for potential exploration locations.
However, if the mineralization is associated with massive sulfide intrusions then the five elevated magnetic areas associated with the Fault are potential targets. Massive sulfides are usually associated with pyrite which is only slightly magnetic. The mineralization may be associated with pyrhhotite and magnetite which are common in sulfide intrusives. It should be noted that two of the elevated magnetic intensity areas are located at junction points between the Branch of the Porcupine-Destor Fault and the northeastern trending faults. The junction locations are ideal for intrusives and are recommended drilling locations.
Consequently, the proposed field work will be a phased exploration program to properly evaluate the potential of the Big Monty Claims.We must conduct exploration to determine what minerals exist on our property and whether they can be economically extracted and profitably processed. We plan to proceed with exploration of the Big Monty Claims by drilling the quartz/felsic intrusion as well as testing further the five elevated magnetic areas associated with the fault in order to begin determining the potential for discovering commercially exploitable deposits of gold on our claim.
We have not discovered any ores or reserves on the Big Monty Claims. Our planned work is exploratory in nature.
The goal of Phase One is to utilize the data base for the project (an airborne mag survey and a brief geologic review and report prepared in 2013) to develop possible drill targets seeking precious and base metals on mining claims. Phase One will involve an initial trip to the property by Mr. Morrow, to gather information and contractor contacts necessary for the smooth operation of the proposed field work and sampling. The complete program will revisit outcrops for mapping and recording attitudes and fabric. New outcrop exposure will be attempted by stripping moss and vegetation from shallowly covered areas. This same effort will assess access for drill equipment, and determine if additional geophysics, either airborne or ground, would be valuable in determining more precisely the strike and dip of the major structures. Trenching and short hole blasting will be used, if necessary, to acquire fresh samples and structural data. An audit will also be done on a spot basis to ensure that the new staking was completed and as filed.
Phase One is essentially a field program which does not require a permit, but which requires notification to the Native tribes and the Ministry. Phase One will primarily involve mapping and sampling activities to develop the basic information needed to apply for a formal exploration permit and work plan.
Phase Two will involve more extensive exploration, including pitting, trenching, possible additional ground based geophysical surveys, and drilling, which will ultimately lead to the discovery phase. Our Phase Two activities could take up to one year to complete, and the costs of Phase Two may increase if our exploration activities are successful and we decide to extend the length and scope of our Phase Two plans.
Competitive Factors
We are a mineral resources exploration company. We compete with many companies in the mining business, including larger, more established mining companies with substantial capabilities, personnel and financial resources. Further, there is a limited supply of desirable mineral lands available for claim-staking, lease or acquisition in Canada, the United States, and other areas where we may conduct exploration activities. Because we compete with individuals and companies that have greater financial resources and larger technical staffs, we may be at a competitive disadvantage in acquiring desirable mineral properties. From time to time, specific properties or areas that would otherwise be attractive to us for exploration or acquisition are unavailable due to their previous acquisition by other companies or our lack of financial resources.
Competition in the mining industry is not limited to the acquisition of mineral properties but also extends to: the technical expertise to find such properties; the labor to operate such properties; and the capital needed to fund the acquisition and operation of such properties. Competition may result in our Company being unable not only to acquire desired properties, but to recruit and/or retain qualified employees, to obtain equipment and personnel to assist in our exploration activities, and/or to acquire the capital necessary to fund our operation and advance our properties. Our inability to compete with other companies for these resources would have a material adverse effect on our results of operation and business.
The mineral resource exploration and mining industry is fragmented, and we are a very small participant in this sector. Many of our competitors explore for a variety of minerals and control many different properties around the world. Many of them have been in business longer than us, have established more strategic partnerships and relationships than us, and have greater access to financial resources than we do. Given the significant competition for mineral resource exploration properties, we may be unable to continue to acquire interests in attractive gold and other mineral exploration properties on terms we consider acceptable.
While we compete with other exploration companies in acquiring suitable properties, we believe that there would be readily available purchasers of gold and other precious metals if they were to be produced from any of the properties we acquire an interest in. The price of precious metals, including gold, can be affected by a number of factors beyond our control, including:
·
Fluctuations in market prices;
·
Fluctuating supplies;
·
Fluctuating demand; and
·
Mining activities of others.
If we find gold mineralization that is determined to be of economic grade and in sufficient quantity to justify production, we may then seek significant additional capital through equity or debt financing to develop, mine and sell our production. Our production would likely be sold to a refiner that would in turn purify our material and then sell it on the open market or through its agents or dealers.
Sources of Available Land for Mining and Exploration
There are generally five primary sources of land available for exploration, development and mining: public lands, private fee lands, unpatented mining claims, patented mining claims, and tribal lands. The primary sources for acquisition of these lands are the United States government, through the Bureau of Land Management and the United States Forest Service, state governments, tribal governments, foreign governments, and individuals or entities that currently hold title to or lease government and private lands.
There are numerous levels of government regulation associated with the activities of exploration and mining companies. Permits include "Notice of Intent" to explore, "Plan of Operations" to explore, "Plan of Operations" to mine, "Reclamation Permit," "Air Quality Permit," "Water Quality Permit," "Industrial Artificial Pond Permit," and several other health and safety permits. These permits are and will be subject to amendment or renewal during our operations. Although there is no guarantee that the appropriate regulatory agencies will timely approve, if at all, the necessary permits for our current operations or other anticipated operations, we have no reason to believe that the necessary permits will not be issued in due course. The total cost and effects of the permitting and bonding process on our operations cannot be estimated at this time. Costs will vary for each project, when initiated, and could have a material effect on our operations.
In the United States, the federal government owns public lands that are administered by the Bureau of Land Management or the United States Forest Service. Ownership of the subsurface mineral estate can be acquired by staking a twenty (20) acre mining claim granted under the General Mining Law of 1872, as amended (the "General Mining Law"). The Federal government still owns the surface estate, even though the subsurface can be controlled with a right to extract through claim staking. Private fee lands are lands that are controlled by fee-simple title by private individuals or corporations. These lands can be controlled for mining and exploration activities by either leasing or purchasing the surface and subsurface rights from the private owner. Unpatented mining claims located on public lands owned by another entity can be controlled by leasing or purchasing the claims outright from the owners. Patented mining claims are claims that were staked under the General Mining Law, and through application and approval, the owners were granted full private ownership of the surface and subsurface estate by the federal government. These lands can be acquired for exploration and mining through lease or purchase from the owners. Tribal lands are those lands that are under control by sovereign Native American tribes. Areas that show promise for exploration and mining can be leased or joint ventured with the tribe controlling the land.
Exploration and development activities in foreign countries are subject to applicable foreign laws and regulations. As with mining activities in the United States, obtaining mining rights under such laws, and obtaining and maintaining necessary licenses, permits and other approvals, may have a material effect on our operations in terms of time and costs. Although there is no guarantee that the appropriate regulatory authorities will timely, if ever, approve our intended operations, we have no reason to believe that all necessary permits and approvals will not be obtained in due course in order to carry out our intended operations.
The Mining Act is the provincial legislation that governs and regulates prospecting, mineral exploration, mine development and rehabilitation in Ontario, Canada. The purpose of the Mining Act is to encourage prospecting, staking and exploration for the development of mineral resources, in a manner consistent with the recognition and affirmation of existing Aboriginal and treaty rights in Section 35 of the Constitution Act of 1982, including the duty to consult, and to minimize the impact of these activities on public health and safety and the environment.
Compliance with Government Regulations
Various levels of governmental controls and regulations address, among other things, the environmental impact of mineral exploration and mineral processing operations and establish requirements for decommissioning of mineral exploration properties after operations have ceased. With respect to the regulation of mineral exploration and processing, legislation and regulations in various jurisdictions establish performance standards, air and water quality emission standards and other design or operational requirements for various aspects of the operations, including health and safety standards. Legislation and regulations also establish requirements for decommissioning, reclamation and rehabilitation of mineral exploration properties following the cessation of operations and may require that some former mineral properties be managed for long periods of time.
Our exploration activities are subject to various levels of federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations relating to protection of the environment. Some of these laws and regulations include Ontario's Mining Act in Canada, and potentially the Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act, the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, the Emergency Planning and Community Right-to-Know Act, the Endangered Species Act, the Federal Land Policy and Management Act, the National Environmental Policy Act and the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act in the United States.
In Ontario, the Company is governed by the Ontario Mining Act (the "Mining Act"), which is the provincial legislation that governs and regulates prospecting, mineral exploration, mine development and rehabilitation in Ontario. The purpose of the Mining Act is to encourage prospecting, staking and exploration for the development of mineral resources in a manner consistent with the recognition and affirmation of existing Aboriginal and treaty rights in Section 35 of the Constitution Act of 1982, including the duty to consult, and the duty to minimize the impact of such mining activities on public health, safety, and the environment.
Ontario closely regulates land access and exploration activities through its Mining Act. The Mining Act mandates that staking claims cannot infringe on individual property rights or disrupt other land uses, such as recreation areas or gardens. Special staking and exploration and exploration guidelines apply on land designated by the Ontario government as environmentally sensitive. The Mining Act protects heritage values and focuses heavily on the rights of Aboriginal communities. It requires notification of and consultation with Aboriginal communities regarding the impact of proposed exploration and mining activities; lower-impact activities require the filing of exploration plans, while higher-impact activities require exploration permits.
Under the Mining Act, before undertaking certain early exploration activities, an exploration plan must be submitted and notification provided to any surface rights owner(s). Aboriginal communities potentially affected by activities proposed in an exploration plan are notified by MNDM and have an opportunity to provide feedback before the proposed activities can be carried out. Additionally, some early exploration activities require an exploration permit. Those activities are only allowed to take place once the permit has been approved by MNDM. Surface rights owners must be notified when applying for a permit. Aboriginal communities potentially affected by the exploration permit activities are to be consulted and given the opportunity to provide comments and feedback before a decision is made on the permit. Effective April 1, 2013, exploration plans and permits became mandatory for prescribed activities.
In addition, the main federal laws and regulations that apply to mining activities in Canada are the Canadian Environmental Assessment Act, the Canadian Environmental Protection Act, 1999 (the "Canadian Environmental Protection Act"), and the Metal Mining Effluent Regulations under the Fisheries Act.
The Canadian Environmental Assessment Act requires federal decision makers (called responsible authorities) to consider the environmental effects of projects before making any decisions or exercising any powers that enable the project to proceed (i.e., before initiating the project, providing funding, granting land, or issuing certain regulatory approvals). Mining projects in Canada are subject to the Canadian Environmental Assessment Act where there is a federal decision-making responsibility to enable a project.
Mining activities can result in emissions to the environment, and are therefore also subject to the Canadian Environmental Protection Act. Emissions from mining activities may include various pollutants of concern, including criteria air contaminants (smog-causing pollutants), greenhouse gases, and substances that have been declared toxic under the Canadian Environmental Protection Act. The National Pollutant Release Inventory is Canada's legislated, publicly accessible inventory of pollutant releases, disposals and transfers for recycling. Emissions information is reported by facilities and published by Environment Canada under the authority of Sections 46 through 50 of the Canadian Environmental Protection Act. The National Pollutant Release Inventory reports on pollutant releases to air, water and land, as well as on/off-site disposal, which includes substances in waste rock and mine tailings.
The quality of effluent discharged from metal mines in Canada is regulated under the Metal Mining Effluent Regulations under the Fisheries Act. Fisheries and Oceans Canada is generally responsible for the Fisheries Act, and Environment Canada administers the pollution prevention provisions (Sections 36 through 42) of the Fisheries Act. Subsection 36(3) of the Fisheries Act prohibits the deposit of deleterious substances in water frequented by fish, unless permitted under regulations such as the Metal Mining Effluent Regulations. Mining operations that are not captured under the Metal Mining Effluent Regulations, such as coal mines, diamond mines, quarries and other non-metallic mineral mining facilities, are subject to the prohibition in subsection 36(3) of the Fisheries Act.
The Company's mining claims in Ontario were recently re-staked by the Company, and the Company has until January 2018 to perform further assessment work (i.e., incur further expenditures) before any potential loss of such claims may occur. Generally, assessment work is prospecting and/or exploration work (e.g., trenching, blasting, diamond drilling, geological or geophysical surveys, etc.) that a mining claim holder must conduct each year to hold the claim in good standing.
We plan to secure all state, federal, local and foreign permits necessary for our exploration activities, and we intend to file applications for the required permits to conduct our exploration programs, as necessary. We do not anticipate discharging water into active streams, creeks, rivers, lakes or any other bodies of water without an appropriate permit. We also do not anticipate disturbing any endangered species or archaeological sites, or causing damage to the properties in which we have an interest. The cost of remediation work varies according to the degree of physical disturbance. It is difficult to estimate the cost of compliance with environmental laws since the full nature and extent of our proposed activities cannot be determined at present.
Environmental Regulation
Our exploration activities are subject to various federal, provincial and local laws and regulations governing protection of the environment. These laws are continually changing and, as a general matter, are becoming more restrictive. Our policy is to conduct business in a way that safeguards public health and the environment. We believe that our exploration activities are conducted in material compliance with applicable laws and regulations. Changes to current local, state or federal laws and regulations in the jurisdictions where we operate could require additional capital expenditures and increased operating and/or reclamation costs. Although we are unable to predict what additional legislation, if any, might be proposed or enacted, additional regulatory requirements could render certain exploration activities uneconomic.
Employees
We have no full-time or part-time employees, with the exception of Christopher Vallos, our sole director and principal executive officer. Mr. Vallos devotes substantially all of his time to the business and affairs of our Company. We do not currently have any pension, health, annuity, insurance, profit sharing, or similar employee benefit plans, although we may choose to adopt such plans in the future.
We plan to engage contractors from time to time to consult with us on specific corporate affairs, or to perform specific tasks in connection with our exploration activities. We will hire contractors on an as needed basis. We have not entered into negotiations or contracts with any of potential subcontractors. We do not intend to initiate negotiations or hire anyone until we are nearing the time of commencement of our planned exploration activities.
Mineralization
No mineralization has been reported for the area of the property but structures and shear zones affiliated with mineralization on adjacent properties pass through it.
Exploration
Previous exploration work has not included any attempt to drill the structure on Big Monty Claims. Records indicate that no detailed exploration has been completed on the property.
Adjacent Properties
The adjacent properties are cited as examples of the type of deposit that has been discovered in the area and are not major facets to this report.
Estimated Costs of Exploration Program
There are no permanent facilities, plants, buildings or equipment on the Big Monty Claims.
We intend to complete the exploration work on the Big Monty Claims. No exact date has been determined for the commencement of exploration work on the Big Monty Claims.
Particularly since we have a limited operating history, no reserves and no revenue, our ability to raise additional funds might be limited. If we are unable to raise the necessary funds, we would be required to suspend Gold Lakes's operations and liquidate our company.
There are no permanent facilities, plants, buildings or equipment on the Big Monty Claims.
Investment Policies
Gold Lakes does not have an investment policy at this time. Any excess funds it has on hand will be deposited in interest bearing notes such as term deposits or short term money instruments. There are no restrictions on what the directors are able to invest.
ITEM 3.