ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
A glossary of Technical Terms appears at page 34.
Property Locations and Descriptions
Pacific Copper through its subsidiaries holds mineral concessions in Chile, and has transactions pending to obtain mineral titles in Peru. Pacific Copper's subsidiary, Sociedad Pacific Copper Chile Limitada (a Chilean limited liability partnership,), holds or controls mining concessions in the Corral/Mofralla, Venapai, Guanaca, Carrizal, and Carrera Pinto mining districts of Chile and certain other areas in Atacama Region III of Chile (the "Chile Claims"). Our Company also has a subsidiary, Pacific Copper Peru SRL (a Peruvian limited liability partnership) that, pending the closing of certain transactions, will hold claims in the Arequipa department of Peru (the "Peru Claims"). There is no assurance that commercially viable mineralized material, let alone proven or probable reserves, exist on any of our mineral concessions and further exploration will be required before a final evaluation as to economic feasibility is determined. We consider the La Guanaca, El Corral/La Mofralla, and the Venapai properties in Chile to be material. We do not consider any of our other properties to be material at this time; however our Company's assessment may change if further exploration is undertaken on these properties.
Please note that the Glossary at the end of this Section contains definitions for certain geological and other specialized terms used in this section. Where appropriate, these definitions have been incorporated in the text of this section.
PAFICIC COPPER IN SOUTH AMERICA
Sociedad Pacific Copper Chile Limitada
On January 8, 2008, Pacific Copper acquired 99% of the interests of Sociedad Pacific Copper Chile Limitada, a limited liability partnership organized under the laws of Chile ("Pacific LTDA") pursuant to a share exchange agreement entered into as of April 11, 2007, as amended (the "Chile Agreement") between our Company and the former partners of Pacific LTDA. In order to facilitate the formation of Pacific LTDA, upon execution of the Chile Agreement, our Company paid $25,000 to cover expenses relating to formation of Pacific LTDA and the consummation of the Chile Agreement. On August 9, 2007, Harold Gardner (then a partner of Pacific LTDA) was appointed to our Company's Board of Directors, in contemplation of the closing of the Chile Agreement. On November 26, 2007, the Board of Directors of our Company approved the appointment for Mr. Gardner, Eduardo Esteffan, Andrew Brodkey, George Orr and Elden Schorn to serve as directors of Pacific LTDA. Mr. Orr and Mr. Schorn ceased to be directors of Pacific LTDA at the time of their resignation from the Board of Directors of Pacific Copper, which occurred on January 15, 2010 and October 30, 2009, respectively.
Pursuant to the Chile Agreement our Company issued, subject to an escrow agreement, an aggregate of 6,088,452 of its common shares to the former partners of Pacific LTDA as consideration for the acquisition (the "Consideration Shares"). Mr. Gardner received, in escrow, 2,425,000 Consideration Shares.
Immediately following the closing of the Chile Agreement, Pacific LTDA became a 99%-owned subsidiary of our Company. Mr. Esteffan retained a 1% partnership interest in Pacific LTDA (the "Retained Interest") in order to comply with Chilean law requiring that a limited liability partnership have at least two members. The number of Consideration Shares Mr. Esteffan was originally scheduled to receive under the Chile Agreement (2,425,000 Shares) was reduced by 61,548 shares in order to avoid compensating him for the Retained Interest. The Retained Interest is subject to an option agreement between our Company and Mr. Esteffan that entitles our Company to purchase the Retained Interest in exchange for the issuance of 61,548 common shares of our Company at any time in the future.
Through closing of the Chile Agreement, Pacific LTDA holds title to or controls certain mineral concessions prospective for sulfide copper potential located in the Carrizal, and Carrera Pinto mining districts in Chile (the "Chile Claims"). The Consideration Shares were exempt from registration under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, were restricted upon issuance, and were issued in escrow subject to a "Closing Agreement" between our Company, Pacific LTDA, and the former partners of Pacific LTDA. The conditions under the Closing Agreement have been satisfied or waived, and the Chile Consideration shares have been issued to the former partners of Pacific LTDA.
Subsequent to the formation of Pacific LTDA and the acquisition of the sulfide copper projects described herein, our Company through Pacific LTDA acquired interests in several oxide or leachable copper projects, described in more detail below.
Mineral Title in Chile
Chile's current mining policy is based on legal provisions founded in Spanish law with modifications via a series of prior Mining Codes leading to the revised Mining Code of 1982. These were established to stimulate the development of mining and to guarantee the property rights of both local and foreign investors. According to the law, the state owns all mineral resources, but exploration and exploitation of these resources by private parties is permitted through mining concessions, which are granted, to any claimant to mineral rights who follows the required procedures. An exploration claim can be placed on any area, whereas the survey to establish a permanent exploitation claim ("mensura") can only be effected on "free" areas which have no valid claims in place or in process of constitution.
The concessions have both rights and obligations as defined by a Constitutional Organic Law as enacted in 1982. Concessions can be mortgaged or transferred and the holder has full ownership rights and is entitled to obtain the rights of way for exploration and exploitation. The concession holder has the right to use, for mining purposes, any water flows which infiltrate any mining workings. In addition, the concession holder has the right to defend his ownership against state and third parties. An exploration concession is obtained by a claims filing and includes all minerals that may exist within its area. Exploration and exploitation mining rights in Chile are acquired in the following stages:
Pedimento: A pedimento is an initial exploration claim whose position is well defined by UTM coordinates which define north-south and east-west boundaries. The minimum size of a pedimento is 100 hectares and the maximum is 5,000 hectares with a maximum length-to-width ratio of 5:1. The duration of validity is for a maximum period of 2 years from the date of constitution, however at the end of this period it may a) be reduced in size by at least 50% and renewed for an additional 2 years or b) entered in the process to establish a permanent claim by converting to a "manifestation". New pedimentos are allowed to overlap with pre-existing ones; however the pedimento with the earliest filing date always takes precedence, providing the claim holder continues the process of constitution in accordance with the Mining Code and the applicable regulations. Pedimentos are maintained by yearly payments of roughly U.S. $3.00 per hectare.
Manifestacion: Before a pedimento expires, or at any stage during its two year life, it may be converted to a manifestacion which lasts for 220 days.
Mensura: Prior to the expiration of a manifestacion, the owner of a manifestacion must request a survey ("mensura"). After acceptance of the "Survey Request" (solicitud de Mensura), the owner has approximately 12 months to have the claim surveyed by a government licensed surveyor. The surrounding claim owners may witness the survey, which is subsequently described in a legal format and presented to the National Mining Service (SERNAGEOMIN) for technical review which includes field inspection and verification. Following the technical approval by SERNAGEOMIN, the file returns to the judge of the appropriate jurisdiction who must dictate the constitution of the claim as a "mensura" (equivalent of a patented claim in the United States). Once constituted, an abstract describing the claim is published in Chile's official mining bulletin (published weekly) and 30 days later the claim can be inscribed in the appropriate Mining Registry (Conservador de Minas).
Once constituted, a "mensura" is a permanent property right, with no expiration date. So long as the annual fees (patentes) are paid in a timely manner, (from March to May of each year) clear title and ownership of the mineral rights is assured in perpetuity. Currently, the patentes are the equivalent of US$7.33 per hectare per year. Failure to pay the annual patentes for an extended period can result in the claim being listed for "remate" (Auction Sale), wherein a third party may acquire a claim for the payment of back taxes owed (plus a penalty payment). In such a case, the claim is included in a list published 30 days prior to the Auction and the owner has the possibility of paying the back taxes plus penalty and thus removing the claim from the Auction List.
Chilean Copper Projects
The maps appearing immediately below depict (1) the geographical locations of the administrative regions in Chile, and (2) the locations of each of the properties in Chile Atacama Region III in which Pacific LTDA owns or has rights in mineral concessions, including the sulfide and oxide/leachable copper districts described herein. As noted below, in February 2011, our Board of Directors determined to discontinue the exploration of the Cerro Blanco project and instructed Pacific LTDA to let lapse all concession fees associated with the Cerro Blanco project.
Chilean Oxide/Leachable Copper Projects
Pacific LTDA owns or controls a portfolio of rights in three separate properties with oxide or leachable copper potential, including the La Guanaca, El Corral/La Mofralla and Venapai/Venado projects, all located in Chile's Atacama Region III. The rights in these three projects cover a cumulative area of 9,000 hectares. Each of these properties are accessible by passenger car and are adjacent to serviceable roads, The acquisition and other history relevant to each of these projects is described in more detail below.
The following maps depict the locations of and access to each of the properties in Chile Atacama Region III in which Pacific LTDA owns or has rights in mineral concessions.
La Guanaca Chile Copper Oxide Property
General
On January 24, 2008, our Company, through its subsidiary Pacific LTDA entered into an exclusive exploration, mining and exploitation agreement (the "Guanaca Lease") with Sociedad Legal Minera La Guanaca de la Sierra Vicuna ("Lessor") for the La Guanaca oxide copper project located northeast of the town of Inca de Oro, Chanaral Province, Atacama Region 3, Chile. This property, which consists of approximately 250 hectares of exploration concessions, is road-accessible and was previously explored in the mid-1990's through geophysical methods, sampling and drilling by Empresa Nacional de Mineria ("ENAMI") a Chilean nationally-owned mining enterprise. The Guanaca Lease is for a term of 5 years and is renewable automatically for additional 5-year periods. The Lessor the La Guanaca property will receive US$2,000 per month in cash as a lease payment during the term of the Guanaca Lease agreement.
Location and Access
The La Guanaca Project is located approximately 150 kilometers north-northeast of the industrial city of Copiapo, which is approximately 450 kilometres north of the capital city of Santiago. The community of Inca de Oro, 38 kilometers to the southwest, is the closest community to the La Guanaca Project. The town, which is situated about 80 kilometers northeast of Copiapo, is populated by a few hundred people at best, and serves as a minimal supply point for small mines and other occupants of the area. There is no agriculture or other sustainable industries in the area. The property is accessible via paved highway C31 from Copiapo, leading northeasterly 23 kilometers, then northerly on paved C17 to the town of Inca de Oro, a distance of 76 kilometers. From Inca de Oro, graded dirt road C257 leads 8.5 kilometers northerly to C253, which travels northeasterly 25 kilometers to mine road C255. Road C255 leads south southeast 15 kilometers to the mine site. The roads are all well maintained by the local provincial authorities and accessible via 2 wheel drive vehicles. Travel time from Copiapo to La Guanaca is about 3 hours.
The La Guanaca property is depicted on the map below, and at this time is considered to be material by our Company.
Titles and Nature of Concessions; Royalties
The La Guanaca Project consists of the La Guanaca Una al Cinquenta claim, which is an exploitation claim (mensura), made up of 50 pertenencias of 5 hectares each, the Guanaca Una a Cincuenta (1-50), and is currently registered to the Lessor. Pacific LTDA through the Guanaca Lease holds a 100% interest in the property, subject only to continuing monthly payments of $2,000. Property boundaries are located by a survey, required under Chilean law for exploitation claims, and the corners are secured by concrete monuments. Other than the $2,000 monthly lease fee, there are currently no royalty or other payment obligations due from our Company to the Lessor. However, should a feasibility study be completed and a project proposed to be constructed at La Guanaca, our Company anticipates that the Lessor would try to negotiate some sort of royalty or production payment on its behalf.
Pertinent data relating to the nature of the mineral concessions comprising La Guanaca is contained in the following table:
The concessions protect the Lessor as to all mineral rights, and a right of surface access upon agreement with the surface owner. As the surface owner at La Guanaca is the state of Chile, Pacific LTDA will solicit a surface rights agreement with the government of Chile at the time of and in connection with a feasibility study, if warranted. Since the concessions at La Guanaca are mensuras, they are perpetual, permanent property rights with no expiration date, subject only to the continued and timely payment of annual fees (patentes) which are currently the equivalent of US$7.33 per hectare per year--in this case, a yearly total of $1,832. Although the Lessor is legally responsible for the payment of the patentes, the monthly remittances by our Company are intended in part to cover this cost.
Geology and Mineralization at La Guanaca
La Guanaca is hosted within a segregated, Miocene granodiorite. The granodiorite stock has intruded Jurassic granites and granodiorites as well as Cretaceous extrusive rocks in the area, and occurs as a window in the veneer of Miocene-age Atacama gravels that blanket the area. A complex, probably multi-stage intrusive breccia occupies about 40% of the window exposed below the Atacama gravels. Of dacitic composition, it is hosted by the Miocene Guanaca stock. With the exception of the young Atacama gravels, the volcanic rocks in the area have been subjected to two dominant structural events. An early north-south fault system has displaced older rocks, and has uplifted the Miocene Guanaca stock and intrusive breccias, juxtaposing the young granodiorite against Jurassic and Cretaceous intrusive rocks. A subsequent northeast-trending fault system traverses the area and truncates the early north-trending structural set. The Guanaca stock has been variably altered, and commonly exhibits secondary argillic and potassic alteration effects. In the vicinity of shear zones, most of the mafic minerals have been replaced by secondary biotite, and the felsic minerals have been converted to sericite. Older intrusive rocks do not display the same degree of alteration.
There are at least two stages of hydrothermal activity at Guanaca. The first stage is evidenced by hydrothermal alteration of the intrusive breccia, when dacitic clasts of the breccia and matrix were sericitized and biotized, and finely disseminated copper minerals were emplaced. A second event resulted in the emplacement of high grade copper minerals in vein and fault fillings, subsequent to the initial alteration of the breccia.
The principal metal of interest at La Guanaca is copper. The copper oxides malachite, azurite, chrysocolla, cuprite, and neoticite occur both in north- and northeast-trending shear zones and fractures, and in an intrusive breccia that is exposed in the erosional window at the property. The low grade copper oxide mineralization that is hosted in intrusive breccias occurs as disseminations, veins, and discontinuous pods of oxide copper minerals. Veins of secondary chalcocite after chalcopyrite also occur as irregular masses in shear zones, and in veins that vary in width from a few millimetres to 3 meters. In one shaft constructed by artisanal miners, workers encountered a granodiorite intrusive that has disseminated pyrite and chalcopyrite. The primary target is the variably mineralized intrusive breccia that is partially exposed in the small window beneath Atacama gravels. A secondary target may be buried primary copper-bearing porphyry, based only on the single occurrence of disseminated pyrite and chalcopyrite.
Prior Work at La Guanaca
Little is known of the early prospecting or artisanal production from the La Guanaca property. Early miners clearly exploited high-grade oxide copper from shear zones on the property. The first known modern evaluation was conducted in 1973 by the Chilean Instituto de Investigaciones Geologicas which conducted a geologic and hydrothermal alteration study, and concluded that, dependent upon interpretation of limited rock exposures, that the property could host a porphyry copper deposit. The study recommended substantial shallow drilling on a grid basis to develop a better understanding of the geology and mineralization of the area.
Codelco Chile staked claims around the main Guanaca workings and conducted a brief examination in 1992. That Company concluded that the property did not meet its criteria and recommended transfer of the claims to ENAMI (the Chilean mining company Empresa Nacional de Mineria). ENAMI took possession of La Guanaca in 1994 and drilled 5 conventional rotary holes on the property, and analyzed cuttings for total copper and soluble copper. ENAMI geologists also conducted geologic mapping, and conducted a brief geophysical survey. Results indicated that potential exists for development of both oxide and porphyry style copper deposits, but no additional work was done.
The specifics of the ENAMI drilling program are as follows: Enami drilled 573 meters in 5 holes between May 28 and June 13, 1994. The holes were drilled using conventional rotary drill methods, and samples were collected on one meter intervals. Two hundred ninety-nine samples were sent to CESMEC, a lab in Copiapo for analysis for copper. In addition, 26 samples were selected and analyzed for gold at the same laboratory. None of the samples returned detectable gold values. All five holes encountered variably mineralized breccia cut by fault zones and copper oxide vein and fracture filling and mineralized quartz veins. Four of five holes contained oxide copper mineralization. Holes S-1 through S-4 contained mineralization hosted in intrusive breccias. Hole S-5 encountered an altered breccia with no appreciable mineralization. The origin of the breccia in hole S-5 is not mentioned or described in the report. ENAMI drilling was insufficient to determine true thickness, and the actual orientation of mineralization is unknown, despite conceptual cross-sections prepared by ENAMI.
Mr. John Hiner, L.P. Geo. and the independent Qualified Person under Canadian National Instrument NI 43-101 engaged by our Company, examined the property over a one day period in May 2008. Known workings were visited. Artisanal miners who were active at the time allowed access to the area where they were working, and pointed out what they considered to be some of the geologic controls for localization of high-grade copper oxides. Local rock and alteration suites were examined in the immediate area of the mine workings, but much of the surface of the claim area has been extensively disturbed, and is covered by stockpiles of unknown origin, multiple and extensive waste rock piles, and the remainder is covered by a veneer of Atacama gravels.
Mr. Hiner took two 1-kg rock chip samples of copper oxide mineralization exposed at the surface by artisanal workings. Due to lack of reliable surface exposure, Mr. Hiner also took samples from two available stockpiles of material recently excavated by active artisanal miners. The samples were collected in 10 mil plastic bags, noted by sample tag and felt marker, sealed with plastic zip ties. The sample locations, which are adjacent to the active workings utilized by the artisanal miners, were noted by GPS location, and photographs of the sample area were taken. No employee, officer, director, or associate of Pacific Copper was involved in the selection of samples to be taken, involved with the collection of the samples, or the preparation of the samples. The samples were sealed at the sample site and remained in Mr. Hiner's possession. The samples were stored in his hotel room until transported by pickup truck to the ALS Chemex Laboratory in La Serena, where the samples were personally delivered to lab personnel for analysis. ALS Chemex is a certified assay laboratory under ISO 9001-2000.
ALS Chemex at La Serena prepared the samples as follows:
1. dried the samples as necessary and crushed the samples to greater than 70% - 2mm using a jaw crusher.
2. A 250 gram split is obtained using a Jones Riffle Splitter and pulverized to greater than 85% -75 microns using standard ring and puck style pulverizing equipment.
3. A 30 gram split was analyzed by for gold ICP-AA and fire assay (ALS method Au-ICP21) and by ICP-AES (ALS method ME-ICP41a) for copper and 33 other elements respectively.
Results of these analyses yielded copper values as high as 24,000 ppm Cu, or 2.4% copper from these selected surface samples.
Our Company has not engaged in any further exploration or site activities at La Guanaca since the inception of the Guanaca Lease.
Improvements, Infrastructure, Equipment and Utilities
Road access to the La Guanaca property is reflected in the map and the descriptions found above.
Power transmission lines, on the Chilean electric power grid, are closest at Potrerillos, and on a straight-line are approximately 15 km from the project. Should the costs to extend power lines to the property prove not to be economical, our Company would either (1) import diesel fuel which can be stored on-site in tanks, or (2) import compressed natural gas which can be stored on-site in tanks.
Water is expected to be obtained from at least 3 potential sources as operational process feed. These include Potrerillos (50 liters/sec located 17 km from the project, La Finca (30 liters/sec--13 km from the site) and Diego de Almagro (100 liters per second--48 km from project).
Other than the access roads, trucks and a shallow shaft, limited underground workings and a winze used by the artisanal miners to drift across a principal vein that has been exploited to only about meters, there are no facilities or equipment at the La Guanaca property.
Exploration Status, Costs and Budget
La Guanaca has no known reserves reportable under US securities laws, and the programs carried out on the property to date have been simply exploratory in nature. However, On April 9, 2009, our Company SEDAR-filed a National Instrument 43-101 technical report, compliant under Canadian law, authored by John Hiner, for its La Guanaca property. Costs incurred by our Company in connection with this report, and all other activities related to the property, including allocations, total approximately US$202,500 . At the current time, there are no plans for any additional exploration at La Guanaca.
El Corral/La Mofralla and Venado Chile Oxide/Leachable Copper Properties
General
As of February 27, 2009 Pacific Copper, through its wholly owned subsidiary Pacific LTDA, entered into a definitive mineral property acquisition agreement (the "Gareste Agreement") with Gareste pursuant to which our Company acquired a 100% interest in the following copper oxide or leachable copper properties located in Atacama Region III, Chile: the "Venado Property" (also known as the "Venapai Property") consisting of approximately 5,000 hectares of exploration concessions, located roughly 45 kilometers from the city of Copiapo; the "El Corral Property", consisting of approximately 3,600 hectares of exploration concessions, located roughly 60 kilometers from the city of Copiapo, and the adjacent "La Mofralla Property", consisting of approximately 250 hectares of exploration concessions also located roughly 60 kilometers from the City of Copiapo. These properties were subject to separate letters of intent entered into during July and October of 2008, as previously described. Under the Gareste Agreement our Company issued a total of 5,000,000 shares of its common stock to Gareste on October 12, 2009, allocable as follows: 2,000,000 shares of common stock as consideration for the Venado Property, 2,000,000 shares of common stock as consideration for the El Corral Property and 1,000,000 shares of common stock as consideration for the La Mofralla Property (collectively, the "Gareste Oxide Shares"). In addition, the Venado Property is subject to a 2% net smelter return royalty, capped at $10,000,000, 50% of which can be repurchased by Pacific Copper at any time prior to the commencement of production for $3,000,000, and the El Corral Property is subject to a 2% net smelter return royalty, capped at $10,000,000, 50% of which can be repurchased by Pacific Copper at any time prior to the commencement of production for $2,000,000.
El Corral/La Mofralla Property
Location and Access
The El Corral y La Mofralla Project is located about 63 kilometers south of the industrial city of Copiapo, which is approximately 450 kilometres north of the capital city of Santiago. El Corral y La Mofralla is accessible from both the north and the south by means of paved and graded dirt roads leading to the property from Copiapo. To reach the property from the north, highway C-35 leads south from Copiapo through the small communities of Tierra Amarilla and Pabellon about 60 km to provincial road C-423, which turns into C-431. Travel 22 km to highway C-439, and turn southwesterly onto the north end of the property. Access from the south is via Route 5, which leads south from Copiapo approximately 62km to the turnoff at highway C-435. Graded dirt road C-435 leads southeasterly for about 23 kilometers to highway C-451. Turn east on C-451 and travel 15 kilometers to the property. A network of roads in arroyos and washes, known locally as quebradas, provides access to much of the property.
The El Corral y La Mofralla property is depicted on the map below, and at this time is considered to be material by our Company.
Titles and Nature of Concessions; Royalties
The El Corral y La Mofralla Project consists of 13 contiguous mining claims that cover 3,850 hectares, registered in the name of Pacific LTDA. As mentioned above, a 2% net smelter return royalty is payable on production from the El Corral concessions, capped at $10,000,000, 50% of which can be repurchased by Pacific Copper at any time prior to the commencement of production for $2,000,000. There is no royalty burden associated with the La Mofralla claims.
Pertinent data relating to the nature of the mineral concessions comprising El Corral y La Mofralla is contained in the following table:
The concessions protect the concession owner as to all mineral rights, and a right of surface access upon agreement with the surface owner. Pacific LTDA will solicit a surface rights agreement with the surface owner at the time of and in connection with a feasibility study, if warranted. Since the concessions at La Guanaca are pedimentos, or exploration claims, they are of two years in duration and require a yearly maintenance payment which is currently nearly the equivalent of US$3.00 per hectare per year. Pacific LTDA is legally responsible for the payment of the yearly fees to maintain the pedimentos.
Geology and Mineralization
The area involving the property is dominated by late Cretaceous to Paleocene volcanic and sedimentary rocks. The late Cretaceous-Tertiary age Hornitos Formation consists of a thick sequence of alternating andesite flows, agglomerates, lahars, and tuffs with interbedded clastic and volcaniclastic rocks including arkoses, graywackes, sandstones, siltstones, shales, and conglomerates. Most of the clastic units are green-gray to black in color, indicating deposition likely occurred in a reducing environment. The Hornitos Formation is host to the stratiform copper mineralization that may be syngenetic.
The Hornitos Formation unconformably overlies the andesitic volcanic rocks of the Cretaceous Cerillos Formation. The Cerillos Formation is a 1500 m thick sequence of green to purple, massive-bedded andesite flows with interbeds of conglomerates and volcanic conglomerates. The Cerillos and Hornitos Formations are folded and generally steeply dipping, and both are unconformably overlain by relatively flat-lying tuffs, andesites, and conglomerates of an unnamed Tertiary-aged formation. These volcanically-derived sedimentary units have been folded in a regional, NE trending, slightly westward-plunging syncline. At the El Corral portion of the property, chalcocite and bornite occur in bedded tuffs, tuffaceous to arkosic sandstones, shales, siltstones and in andesite flow tops on the east limb of the syncline. The chalcocite and bornite are accompanied by the oxidation products of malachite, atacamite, tenorite, and chrysocolla. Exotic copper has been deposited in a conglomerate unit within the volcaniclastic package. The occurrence of chalcocite and bornite in sedimentary units that exhibit little if any alteration suggests that the sulfide minerals may be been deposited synchronously with the sedimentary rocks.
The dominant structure is a northeast-trending, southwest-plunging syncline. Faults that are probably related to the folding event cut the syncline but most have minor or no offset. Later northwest-trending faults related to the currently-active Atacama fault system cut all the rock units in the area. Several faults that cut mineralized beds contain copper oxide mineralization.
The El Corral segment of the property hosts sulfide copper mineralization in what appears to be a syngenetic setting. Copper-bearing units are commonly stacked within a specific clastic horizon, generally associated with a basal andesite flow or tuff. The La Mofralla segment of the property hosts shear-zone oxide copper mineralization in fractures, shears, and as fillings in sheared conglomerate.
Minerals found at the El Corral segment of the property consist of chalcocite, bornite, covellite, and the associated copper oxides malachite, azurite, chrysocolla, tenorite, neoticite, and atacamite. Chalcocite occurs as thin selvages and distinct blebs of chalcocite that are drawn out along bedding planes. Chalcocite thicknesses vary from razor-thin selvages to discontinous "beds" up to 5cm thick along indistinct bedding planes in outcrops where textural variations are visible. Many of the reliable exposures have been disrupted by landslide blocks and rapid thickness variations and dip changes are common. It is overlain by dark brown shale containing chalcocite-bearing pebbles derived from the unit below. Except for disruptions in continuity from alluvium or landslide material, the unit can be traced over a strike length of 600 m, and the thickness of both the tuffaceous volcaniclastic shale and the dark brown shale pinches and swells from a few cm to as much as 3 m.
The La Mofralla segment of the property in the southeast hosts a small open pit CuOx occurrence situated in a low-angle fault, known locally as the Mofralla Fault. The fault cuts andesitic volcanic rocks and conglomerates of the Cerrillos Formation. Copper occurs as chrysocolla, malachite, tenorite, and atacamite derived from oxidation of chalcocite. The copper minerals occur in a brecciated and faulted zone about 50 m thick by 200 m in width. The fault has additionally been traced over a strike length of 400 m.
Prior Work at El Corral y La Mofralla
Little information is available regarding the early prospecting or artisanal production from El Corral y La Mofralla. Early miners developed a small open pit at La Mofralla, and exposed a 50 meter wide zone of copper oxide mineralization in a low-angle fault zone. At El Corral, widespread copper mineralization in bedded sedimentary rocks and bedded tuffaceous units was the locus of artisanal prospecting, but no production is apparent. Any high-grade, hand-selected copper mineralization that could have been shipped to ENAMI is not recorded.
The first modern evaluation known to our Company occurred in 1998. Tucson, Arizona consultant Joe Wilkins evaluated the El Corral y La Mofralla properties for S&S Mining Company. Wilkin's work was preceded by three geologists sent to the property by S&S Mining Company to confirm reported copper occurrences prior to Wilkins visit. He conducted limited sampling and reconnaissance level geologic mapping, and concluded that the property has good potential for development of oxide copper reserves, particularly at La Mofralla. Three samples taken by Wilkins at La Mofralla averaged 1.24% Cu and 14 g/t Ag. Wilkins recommended detailed mapping and sampling, trenching, and core drilling.
In 1999, Santiago, Chile consultant Enrique Marino examined the El Corral y La Mofralla property. He also concluded that conditions were conducive for the identification of potentially economic copper-silver mineralization. His recommendations included acquisition of air-photo coverage and geologic mapping at a scale of 1:10,000 with an emphasis on mineralized zones. Based on reconnaissance-level mapping and sampling he recommended trenching, additional sampling, and geochemical studies to determine ore mineralogy and metallurgical response prior to additional work.
Mr. John Hiner, L.P. Geo. and the independent Qualified Person under Canadian National Instrument NI 43-101 engaged by our Company, examined the property over a one day period in May 2008. Known workings were visited, and Mr. Hiner took three samples of copper mineralization: one at La Mofralla, and two at El Corral. The samples were collected in 10 mil plastic bags, noted by sample tag and felt marker, sealed with plastic zip ties. At La Mofralla, the sample was representative of the copper oxide mineralization found across the south face of the pit developed by artisanal miners. About 20 m of the zone exposed in the pit was not sampled due to dangerous pit conditions. At El Corral, both samples were taken of stratiform mineralization found within the volcaniclastic sedimentary section. The first sample was taken as a check of previous sampling conducted by consultant Marino, and the second sample was taken from small dumps from prospect pits and shafts developed by artisanal miners on bedded mineralization. Hiner's samples were taken only to confirm the existence of copper mineralization, not to establish grade or tenor.
The samples were sealed at the sample site and remained in the possession of Mr. Hiner. The samples were stored in his hotel room until transported by pickup truck to the ALS Chemex Laboratory in La Serena, where the samples were personally delivered to lab personnel for analysis. ALS Chemex is a certified assay laboratory under ISO 9001-2000.
ALS Chemex at La Serena prepared the samples as follows:
1. dried the samples as necessary and crushed the samples to greater than 70% -2mm using a jaw crusher.
2. A 250 gram split was obtained using a Jones Riffle Splitter and pulverized to greater than 85% -75 microns using standard ring and puck style pulverizing equipment.
3. A 30 gram split was analyzed by for gold ICP-AA and fire assay (ALS method Au-ICP21) and by ICP-AES (ALS method ME-ICP41a) for copper and 33 other elements respectively.
Results of these analyses yielded copper values as high as 24,000 ppm Cu, or 2.4% copper at El Corral, and 15,200 ppm Cu, or 1.52% Cu at La Mofralla from these selected surface samples.
Our Company has not engaged in any further exploration or site activities at El Corral/La Mofralla since the visit by Mr. Hiner.
Improvements, Infrastructure, Equipment and Utilities
Road access to the Corral/Mofralla property is reflected in the map and the descriptions found above.
Power transmission lines, on the Chilean electric power grid, are closest at San Antonio, and on a straight-line are approximately 20 km from the project. Should the costs to extend power lines to the property prove not to be economical, our Company would either (1) import diesel fuel which can be stored on-site in tanks, or (2) import compressed natural gas which can be stored on-site in tanks.
Water for operational process feed can be obtained from a number of different nearby sources. The Rio Manflas is located 23 km from the project and has a flow of 300 liters/second. There are six other potential water supplies within 65 km that range up to 400 liters/sec of water.
Other than the access roads there are no improvements, facilities or equipment at the property.
Exploration Status, Costs and Budget
El Corral y La Mofralla has no known reserves reportable under US securities laws, and the programs carried out on the property to date have been simply exploratory in nature. However, On April 9, 2009, our Company SEDAR-filed a National Instrument 43-101 technical report, compliant under Canadian law, authored by John Hiner, for this property. Costs incurred by our Company in connection with this report, and all other activities related to the property, including allocations, total approximately US$58,000. At the current time, there are no plans for any additional exploration at El Corral y La Mofralla.
Venado/Venapai property
Location and Access
The Venapai property is located in Atacama Region III about 43 km east northeast of the industrial city of Copiapo, which is approximately 450 km north of the capital city of Santiago. To reach the Venapai property, travel southeast from Copiapo on Avenida Copayapu to Camino Inca de Oro, a distance of about 8 km. Camino Inca de Oro, denoted as Chilean highway 31, is known also as the international highway, and leads northeasterly in the Quebrada Paipote. Travel about 38 km northeast on highway 31 to the intersection of Quebrada Dadin. Access to the workings is via a twisty dirt road in the canyon and via switchbacks to the property, a distance of about 6 km. A four-wheel drive vehicle with good clearance is recommended. Allow about an hour travel time from Copiapo to the property.
The Venado/Venapai property is depicted on the map below, and at this time is considered to be material by our Company.
Titles and Nature of Concessions; Royalties
The Venapai property consists of seventeen mineral concessions, referred to in Chile as pedimentos, which are currently registered to Pacific LTDA. These concessions cover an area totaling 4,900 hectares. As mentioned above, a 2% net smelter return royalty is payable on production from the Venapai concessions, capped at $10,000,000, 50% of which can be repurchased by Pacific Copper at any time prior to the commencement of production for $3,000,000.
Pertinent data relating to the nature of the mineral concessions comprising Venapai is contained in the following table:
The concessions protect the concession owner as to all mineral rights, and a right of surface access upon agreement with the surface owner. Pacific LTDA will solicit a surface rights agreement with the surface owner at the time of and in connection with a feasibility study, if warranted. Since the concessions at La Guanaca are pedimentos, or exploration claims, they are of two years in duration and require a yearly maintenance payment which is currently nearly the equivalent of US$3.00 per hectare per year. Pacific LTDA is legally responsible for the payment of the yearly fees to maintain the pedimentos.
Geology and Mineralization
The Venapai area is underlain by a thick sequence of volcanic rocks in a complex structural setting. The volcanic stratigraphy is difficult to ascertain due to rapid facies changes and fault offsets. In general, there is a basal sequence of andesite flows that are covered by a thick sequence of ash flow tuffs, volcaniclastic rocks, and tuffaceous sedimentary rocks ranging from coarse arkosic sandstones to pebble conglomerates. This sequence is overlain by very coarse andesitic agglomerates and intercalated andesitic flows. Locally, breccias are developed within the upper volcanic pile, most commonly as flow breccias and flow top breccias. There has been no formal assignment of formation names, but it is likely that these volcanic rocks are correlative with the late Cretaceous Cerillos Formation and the late Cretaceous-early Tertiary Hornitos Formation. The entire volcanic sequence has been cut by andesitic to dacitic dikes and common lamprophyre dikes. There does not appear to be a dominant trend to the dikes, but an overall sense that these dikes are radiating outward from a complex rhyodacitic intrusive plug complex located about 3.5 km southeast of the property. The style of volcanic deposition, with rapid lateral and vertical facies changes, and the occurrence of an intrusive plug complex to the south southeast are strongly suggestive that volcanic rocks at the Venapai property were deposited on the side of a massive stratovolcano that was active in late Cretaceous time.
With the exception of the Quebrada Paipote, which trends northeasterly across the property, the dominant structural trend on the property is northwesterly. The Quebrada Paipote is almost certainly a fault or fault zone, as evidenced by rock type changes across the quebrada from southeast to northwest, truncation of northwest trending faults and dikes, and a distinct change in topographic texture on either side of the quebrada. Offsets on the northwest-trending faults commonly juxtapose different rock types, making correlations and determination of local stratigraphy difficult.
Two known modes of copper mineralization occur on the property. The first occurrence includes CuOx minerals as malachite, chrysocolla, atacamite, and neoticite found in small shear zones in the uppermost coarse agglomerates and volcanic flows. All the copper noted in these occurrences is exotic, and the source is unknown. In the second occurrence, native copper and cuprite accompanied by the oxide products of chrysocolla and malachite occur as disseminations in fine-grained tuffaceous rocks, welded tuffs or ignimbrites, and in the interstices of flow-top breccias and agglomerates of the middle section of volcaniclastic rocks.
Prior Work at Venapai
At several locations, artisanal miners have mined small shear zones containing chrysocolla and malachite. Numerous small stockpiles remaining in the area suggest the miners were hand cobbing the copper mineralization to increase grades. Other than the artisanal prospecting and minor production as noted, there has been no systematic modern exploration conducted that is evident at the property. Representatives of Gareste, the vendor to Pacific LTDA, conducted a modest stream sediment program in the Quebrada Paipote area in mid-2008 as part of a reconnaissance evaluation of the area, and confirmed the presence of copper in the Quebrada Paipote and nearby hills. Gareste engaged geologic consultant E. Marino to follow this work with a rock chip sampling of artisanal workings and various rock types to establish a basic geochemistry database. Geologic consultant E. Marino also supervised a small rock chip grid-sampling program on the south side of Quebrada Paipote in an area where copper oxides and native copper were found in tuffs and welded tuff.
Based on the results of the rock-chip sampling a 1,500 meter 8-hole drill program was planned and initiated by Pacific LTDA in mid-November, 2008. As of the end of February 2009 eight core holes were completed, a total of 1.550 meters. Drill core was submitted to Viga Laboratories in Copiapo for analysis. However, due to a lack of funding, the analysis has not been completed and the program remains in suspense at this time.
Mr. John Hiner, L.P. Geo. and the independent Qualified Person under Canadian National Instrument NI 43-101 engaged by our Company, examined the property over a one day period in July 2008. Known workings were visited, and Mr. Hiner took three 1 kg samples of copper mineralization: two were taken in prospect pits developed on shear zones to ascertain the relative grade of the CuOx mineralization, and a third was taken in the area containing native copper and cuprite. All the samples were collected in 10 mil plastic bags, noted by sample tag and feltmarker, and sealed with plastic ziplock ties. The sample locations were noted by GPS location, and photographs of the sample area were taken. These samples were taken to confirm the presence of copper in shear zones and as disseminations in volcaniclastic rocks. No attempt was made to establish grade, continuity, or persistence of any mineralization, given the early stage of exploration that the Venapai property exhibits.
The samples were sealed at the sample site and remained in the possession of Mr. Hiner. The samples were stored in his hotel room until transported by pickup truck to the ALS Chemex Laboratory in La Serena, where the samples were personally delivered to lab personnel for analysis. ALS Chemex is a certified assay laboratory under ISO 9001-2000.
ALS Chemex at La Serena prepared the samples as follows:
1. dried the samples as necessary and crushed the samples to greater than 70% -2mm using a jaw crusher.
2. A 250 gram split was obtained using a Jones Riffle Splitter and pulverized to greater than 85% -75 microns using standard ring and puck style pulverizing equipment.
3. A 30 gram split was analyzed by for gold ICP-AA and fire assay (ALS method Au-ICP21) and by ICP-AES (ALS method ME-ICP41a) for copper and 33 other elements respectively.
Results of these analyses yielded copper values as high as 18,600 ppm Cu, or 1.86% copper at Venapai from these selected surface samples.
Our Company has not engaged in any further exploration or site activities at La Guanaca since the drilling program described herein.
Improvements, Infrastructure, Equipment and Utilities
Road access to the Venapai property is reflected in the map and the descriptions found above.
Power transmission lines, on the Chilean electric power grid, are closest at the Carrera Pinto area, and on a straight-line are approximately 11 km from the project. Should the costs to extend power lines to the property prove not to be economical, our Company would either (1) import diesel fuel which can be stored on-site in tanks, or (2) import compressed natural gas which can be stored on-site in tanks.
Water for operational process feed is expected to be obtained from wells at either the Carrera Pinto area (15 km) or the Puerta area (30 km), each of which areas currently has 30 liters/second of water available.
Other than the access roads, there are no improvements, facilities or equipment at the property.
Exploration Status, Costs and Budget
Venapai has no known reserves reportable under US securities laws, and the programs carried out on the property to date have been simply exploratory in nature. However, On April 9, 2009, our Company SEDAR-filed a National Instrument 43-101 technical report, compliant under Canadian law, authored by John Hiner, for the Venapai property. Costs incurred by our Company in connection with this report, exploration, and all other activities related to the property, including allocations, total approximately US$906,700. At the current time, there are no plans for any additional exploration at Venapai.
Chilean Sulfide Copper Properties
Carrera Pinto District
The Carrera Pinto District is located 60 kilometers northeast of Copiapo and is reached on paved roads using the highway to Inca del Oro. Travel time is less than an hour. The properties are located in the plain and along the fringes of a collapsed caldera system of approximately 20 kilometers in diameter. The hills forming the caldera walls are crossed with numerous veins and mantos containing copper with some silver. Our Company does not consider the properties of the Carrera Pinto District to be material at this time.
The Carrera Pinto concessions owned by our Company are comprised of the Cobrizo, Puquois and Turkesa properties, and are depicted on the map below.
Titles and Nature of Concessions; Royalties
The Carrera Pinto project consists of fourteen mineral concessions which are currently registered to Pacific LTDA. These concessions cover an area totaling 3,600 hectares. There are no net smelter return or other royalties payable on production from these concessions,
Pertinent data relating to the nature of the mineral concessions comprising Carrera Pinto is contained in the following table:
Our Company at this time has no plans for any exploration at the Carrera Pinto property, and does not consider it to be material to our Company.
Cerro Blanco District
On February 3, 2011, our Board of Directors determined to discontinue exploration of the Cerro Blanco project, which is located approximately 90 kilometers south of Copiapo and is comprised of five mineral concessions totaling 1,000 hectares.
This property was not material to our Company. Our Board of Directors decided to discontinue exploration of this project and instructed Pacific LTDA to let lapse all concession fees associated with it because Cerro Blanco was an early stage project which we deemed not sufficiently prospective and too costly to maintain given our other payment obligations.
Carrizal District
Carrizal is located roughly 120 km southwest from Copiapo on primary and secondary improved roads. Carrizal is accessed using the Pan American highway south of Copaipo for about an hour, then west on improved secondary roads for an additional 30 minutes. The mean elevation is 700 meters, and weather is temperate for year round operations. Our Company does not consider the properties at Carrizal to be material at this time.
The Carrizal concessions owned by our Company are depicted on the map below.
Titles and Nature of Concessions; Royalties
The Carrizal claims currently consist of two mineral concessions which are registered to Pacific LTDA. These concessions cover an area totaling 500 hectares. There are no net smelter return or other royalties payable on production from these concessions,
Pertinent data relating to the nature of the mineral concessions comprising Carrizal is contained in the following table:
Our Company at this time has no plans for any exploration at the Carrizal property, and does not consider it to be material to our Company.
Our Company through Pacific LTDA also executed a letter of intent dated September 9, 2008 with a single vendor to acquire its interest in the Yerbas Buenas oxide copper property located 130 km southeast of the city of Copiapo, Atacama Region III. Chile. Yerbas Buenas is located roughly 20 km from the El Corral property. The vendor of Yerbas Buenas is Gareste, Ltda, a Chilean entity which is owned in part by a Director of our Company. The vendor was to receive 2 million shares of our Company's common stock at closing in exchange for its interest at Yerbas Buenas, and a 2% NSR royalty, capped at $6 million, 1% of which can be repurchased for the sum of $2 million at any time prior to commercial production. This transaction did not close and on February 22, 2010, the parties terminated the agreement for Yerbas Buenas. Our Company did not and does not consider this property to be material.
Pacific Copper Peru SRL
On December 17, 2007, our Company completed the acquisition of Pacific Copper Peru SRL, a limited partnership organized under the laws of Peru ("Peru SRL") pursuant to a Share Exchange Agreement among our Company, Peru SRL and the former partners of Peru SRL dated as of April 11, 2007, as amended (the "Peru Agreement"). On August 9, 2007, Dr. David Hackman, a former partner of Peru SRL, was appointed to our Company's Board of Directors in anticipation of the closing of the Peru Agreement. On December 12, 2007, our Company's Directors passed a resolution appointing Harold Gardner, a member of our Company's Board of Directors, Manager of Peru SRL.
Pursuant to the Peru Agreement, our Company issued 4,850,000 shares of our Company's common stock (the "Consideration Shares"), subject to an escrow agreement, to the former partners of Peru SRL as consideration for the acquisition of Peru SRL. Dr.. Hackman was among the former partners of Peru SRL and received 2,425,000 Consideration Shares. As a result of the closing, Peru SRL became a subsidiary of our Company. Mr. Brodkey holds a 1% interest in Peru SRL for the benefit of our Company. Mr. Brodkey holds this 1% interest in order to comply with the requirement under Peruvian law that limited partnerships in Peru have at least two partners.
As of the date of this report, Peru SRL has no material or other mineral assets, as the transactions contemplated or related to the Peru Agreement, which would transfer mineral titles to Peru SRL, have not been formally completed. The Consideration Shares were issued in escrow subject to a Closing and Escrow Agreement dated December 14, 2007 among our Company, Peru SRL and the former partners of Peru SRL (the "Closing Agreement"). Pursuant to the terms of the Closing Agreement, the former partners of Peru SRL must satisfy certain post-closing items, including the following items
(a)
Peru SRL must obtain, and have registered in its name, rights to the Peru Claims as contemplated in the Peru Agreement, free of all liens and encumbrances.
(b)
Peru SRL must provide legal evidence demonstrating that the Peru Claims have been transferred to Peru SRL, that they are in good standing and that the Good Standing Fees (payable in Peru) are fully paid and up to date, including any penalties thereon.
(c)
Peru SRL must demonstrate that it has the necessary permits to access the Peru Claims and that the necessary environmental permits have been obtained.
(d)
Peru SRL must provide a legal opinion that: (i) Peru SRL owns the Peru Claims, (ii) the Peru Claims are free of encumbrances, mortgages, attachments, liens, or disputes of any nature, including judicial and (iii) the claims are in good standing and all the good standing fees and penalties thereon are fully paid and there are no amounts outstanding.
(e)
Peru SRL must provide financial records, including receipts for incorporation costs and all other expenditures incurred since the date of inception of Peru SRL.
(f)
The certificates evidencing the Peru SRL partnership interests acquired by our Company have been duly transferred and registered in Peru SRL's records, such certificates legally representing the equity interests of Peru SRL.
(g)
A legal opinion of counsel to Peru SRL, acceptable to Pacific Copper, covering the following points:
(i)
the existence and good standing of Peru SRL as a limited liability partnership in Peru,
(ii)
the authorization of the transactions contemplated by the Peru Agreement,
(iii)
the valid issuance and certification of the Peru SRL partnership interests transferred to Pacific Copper,
(iv)
the binding nature of the Peru Agreement upon Peru SRL and the former partners of Peru SRL,
(v)
there are no required consents of governmental agencies or private third parties for Peru SRL to consummate the transactions contemplated in the Peru Agreement, and
(vi)
no violation of Peruvian law as a result of the share exchange contemplated by the Peru Agreement.
(h)
Obtaining a power of attorney granted by Mrs. Hackman (wife of David Hackman), in both languages (English and Spanish) with her signature duly legalized by the nearest Peruvian Consulate, granting power to third persons, for the ratification and confirmation of consent to the transfer of the partnership interests to Pacific Copper by David Hackman, as required under Chilean law.
The Consideration Shares were exempt from registration under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and were restricted upon issuance. As of the date of this report, the Peru Consideration Shares remain in escrow, the Closing Conditions have not been satisfied, and our Company has not yet elected to waive any of the Closing Conditions. In any event, our Company does not consider any of the Peru Claims or the copper projects in Peru to be material to our Company.
Mineral Title in Peru
Mineral property in Peru is acquired under the General Mining Law of 1992, which consolidated several prior mining acts and provided a mineral concession basis for holding land and mineral rights. A mining concession grants its holder the right to exploit and explore all mineral resources that may be found in the subsoil of the concession area. Mining concessions are granted in extensions ranging from 100 to 1000 hectares in grids or groups of adjacent grids that are contiguous to each other at least by one side, except for concessions on the maritime domain, for which grids from 100 to 10,000 hectares may be granted. Concessions are irrevocable provided that the concessionaire fulfills the obligations set forth by the General Mining Act to maintain the concession effectiveness.
The mining concession application must include the payment receipts for the Effectiveness Fee corresponding to the first year, which is equivalent to US$ 3.00 per requested hectare, and the Payment Receipt for the Administrative Fee equivalent to 10% of the effective Tax Unit. Mining concession applications are received at the National Institute of Concessions and Mining Cadastre (Instituto Nacional de Concesiones y Catastro Minero-"INACC") on a first-come-first-serve basis. Upon reception of the mining concession application, the front desk officers at INACC's Office of Mining Concessions (Oficina de Concesiones Mineras-"OCM") determine priority in the submission of applications. This priority is applicable even when the reading of the application or the review of the attached documents shows incompliance with any of the requirements set forth in the General Mining Act as regulated. Deficient mining concession applications may be amended within 10 business days of notification of the omission. Mining concession applications failing to attach receipt of payment for the effectiveness fee and/or the administrative fee; not including information on the UTM coordinates of the requested area; or lacking an opinion or having an unfavorable opinion regarding the mining concession application issued by the Provincial and District Municipality, shall be rejected by the Office of Mining Concessions of INAAC.
Mining concessions are not granted within municipality boundaries or within areas designated as expansion zones of municipal boundaries. For reasons of national security, any concessions within 50 kilometers of a national political boundary cannot be held under concession by foreign entities unless and until the concession has been approved by the Ministry of Defense. If the mining concession application meets the requirements set forth in the Regulations on Mining Procedures, the General Bureau of Mining Concessions of INACC shall notify the interested party, within 7 business days following the mining concession application submission, of the publication of court notices, attaching the notices to be published, and if necessary, to be posted. Simultaneously to the notification to the mining concession applicant, the Head of the General Bureau of Mining Concessions of INACC shall notify the holders of other mining concession applications or previously granted mining concessions, whose areas are located in part of the grid or group of grids included in the mining concession application.
All mining concession applications are published once in the "El Peruano" Official Gazette and in the newspaper in charge of the publication of court notices in the capital city of the province or region where the requested area is located. In the latter case, if no such newspaper exists, notices shall be posted for 7 business days in the INACC's main office or decentralized offices, as appropriate. Notices shall be published within 30 business days upon notice notification. Within 60 calendar days upon publication, the interested party shall deliver the published pages evidencing the publication of the notices to INACC's General Bureau of Mining Concessions. Within 30 business days upon receipt of the publication of notices, if no objection has been filed, INACC's General Bureau of Mining Concessions issues the legal and technical opinion. Once the resolution granting the title to the mining concession is final and unappealable, it can be registered upon request of the interested party, in the Registry of Mining Rights of the National Superintendence of Public Registration (Superintendencia Nacional de Registros Publicos).
Peruvian Copper Projects
The interests to be obtained by Peru SRL consists of rights in three separate properties with copper potential, including the Don Javier, Tonalia and Tenospa projects, all located in the Arequipa department of southern Peru. The rights in these three projects cover a cumulative area of almost 2,600 hectares. Each of these properties are accessible by passenger car and are adjacent to serviceable roads,
The maps appearing immediately below depict (1) the geographical locations of the administrative regions in Peru, (2) the locations of each of the properties in Peru's Arequipa Region in which Peru SRL, pending the closing of transactions and transfers of mineral titles, will own or have rights in mineral concessions, and (3) a small -scale map showing road access to each of these properties. Our Company does not consider any of these properties to be material to our Company.
Don Javier Project
The Don Javier mineral exploitation claims are comprised of one mineral concession totaling 599.9 hectares, which is depicted on the maps above.
Pertinent data relating to the nature of the mineral concession comprising Don Javier is contained in the following table:
Our Company at this time has no plans for any exploration at the Don Javier property, and does not consider it to be material to our Company.
Tonalia Property
The Tonalia claims are comprised of one mineral concession totaling 1,000 hectares, and are depicted on the maps above.
Pertinent data relating to the nature of the mineral concession comprising Tonalia is contained in the following table:
Our Company at this time has no plans for any exploration at the Tonalia property, and does not consider it to be material to our Company.
Tenospa Property
The Tenospa claims, comprised of one mineral concession totaling 1,000 hectares, are depicted on the maps above.
Pertinent data relating to the nature of the mineral concession comprising Tenospa is contained in the following table:
Our Company at this time has no plans for any exploration at the Tenospa property, and does not consider it to be material to our Company.
GLOSSARY OF TERMS
Adit: a tunnel entrance.
Caldera: a large basin shaped volcanic depression, more or less circular.
Chalcocite: a sulfide mineral ore of copper.
Copper: a metallic chemical element, an isometric mineral
Diamond Drilling: diamond drilling differs from other geological drilling in that a solid core is extracted from depth, for examination on the surface.
Mantos: flat lying bedded deposit
Mineral Deposit: a mass of naturally occurring mineral material
Mineral Claims: land title encompassing minerals
Mineralization: deposition of minerals in rocks
Molybdenum: a hard, silvery-white metallic element
Porphyry: variety of igneous rock consisting of large-grained crystals, such as feldspar or quartz, dispersed in a fine-grained groundmass
Pyrite: a mineral composed of iron and sulfur
Staked: acquisition of mineral title is accomplished by placing posts in the ground or other monuments to delineate the parameters of the claim and filing the location notice at the mining recorders office.
ITEM 3.