ITEM 2. PROPERTIES.
We rent office space at 1200 Dupont Street, Suite 2J, Bellingham, WA 98225, consisting of approximately 144 square feet, at a cost of $362 per month. This rental is on a month-to-month basis without a formal contract.
We own a 100% interest in the Clisbako Property located in British Columbia, Canada. Title to the Clisbako Property is held by our wholly owned British Columbia subsidiary, Clisbako Minerals Inc.(“Clisbako”).
Description of the Clisbako Property
The Clisbako Property covers approximately 3,388 hectares. The mineral claims making up the Clisbako Property are recorded with the Ministry of Mines as follows:
The Province of British Columbia owns the land covered by the Clisbako Property. To our knowledge, there are no aboriginal land claims that might affect our title to the Clisbako Property or the Province’s title of the property.
In order to maintain the Clisbako Property in good standing, we must complete minimum exploration work on the Clisbako Property and file confirmation of the completion of the work with the Ministry of Mines. In lieu of completing this work, we may pay a fee equal to the minimum exploration work that must be performed with the Ministry of Mines. The completion of mineral exploration work or payment in lieu of exploration work in any year will extend the existence of our mineral claims for one additional year. The minimum exploration work that must be performed and/or the fee for keeping our claims current is equal to $8.00 CDN (approximately $6.46 US) per hectare. As our mineral claims are in good standing until March 10, 2010, we will be required to complete minimum exploration work or pay a minimum fee of CDN$27,104 (approximately US$21,903) on or before March 10, 2010 and each year thereafter in order to keep the Clisbako Property current. If we fail to complete the minimum required amount of exploration work or fail to make a payment in lieu of this exploration work, our mineral claims will lapse and we will lose all interest in our mineral claims.
Location, Access, Climate and Physiography
The Clisbako Property is located in the Interior Plateau Region of north central British Columbia. It is composed of ten contiguous mineral claims, situated within the Cariboo Mining Division. The claims are situated approximately 125 kilometers west of Quesnel, British Columbia.
Access to the property is by paved highway west from Quesnel to Nazko, then 50 kilometers southwest by gravel Forest Service Roads (“FSR”). The 4200 FSR crosses the northern portion of the Clisbako Property and branch roads and logging tracks provide access to much of the rest of the property.
The climate of the area is characteristically dry. Average annual temperature is approximately 2° C, with average summer highs in July and August of 14° C and January winter lows averaging -13° C. Average annual precipitation is approximately 440 millimeters, with an estimated 40% falling as snow. The majority of rainfall occurs between June and August.
The claims cover a wide variety of terrain, from swampy meadows to forested upland slopes. Elevations range from 1,250 meters along the Clisbako River to over 1,500 meters to the west. A significant portion of the property has been logged by clearcut methods. Forest cover is typical of the region, consisting of lodgepole pine, with local stands of black spruce, fir and birch along drainages. Timber harvesting has occurred with numerous cut blocks scattered throughout the claim area. Swampy meadow lands in the eastern and north-eastern portions of the property that form the headwaters of the Clisbako River system are saturated for much of the year but dry out in late summer. These areas are sparsely treed.
Property History
Historical work to date on the Clisbako Property has outlined eight main zones, as currently identified, of epithermal mineralization and alteration referred to as the North, Central, South, West Lake, Obvious, West Lake Boulder, Gore and Bari zones. Historical records indicate that soil geochemical surveys and geophysical surveys have been conducted over several grids on the property, and a total of 34 diamond drill holes have been completed. The bulk of the work has been concentrated within a 2 kilometer by 4 kilometer north trending corridor in the centre of the project area. Prior to 1989, there is no recorded work on the Clisbako Property.
Eighty Eight Resources Ltd.: 1989 - 1991
In 1989, a regional reconnaissance exploration program was conducted within the Nechako Basin by Eighty Eight Resources Ltd. Epithermal quartz float collected on the property returned weakly to moderately anomalous gold, silver and arsenic values. Subsequent work traced these samples to their source and led to the discovery of several extensive areas of epithermal silicification and argillic alteration in 1990.
A property consisting of 15 contiguous claims (Clisbako 1-15) covering 7,500 hectares was staked by Eighty-Eight Resources Ltd. to cover these areas. Dawson Geological Consultants Ltd. were contracted to complete a compass and flag grid covering the 4 main mineralized zones (North, Boulder, Central and South Zones). Crews collected 1,320 soil samples from grids covering the mineralized areas, and a total of 253 rock samples were collected from areas of epithermal silicification as well as from mineralized float believed to be locally derived. Geological mapping was also completed.
Minnova Inc.: 1991- 1992
The property was subsequently optioned to Minnova Inc., and five more claims (Clisbako 16-20) were added to the property in April, 1991, following a compilation of data and re-interpretation of the 1990 field work. Minnova then proceeded to fly an airborne magnetic and electro-magnetic survey over the entire property. Grid line spacing over the pre-existing grid was tightened to 100 meters line spacing and grid lines were extended 1 kilometer to the west. The entire gridded area was geologically mapped and sampled, the results of which delineated the Gore and Pond epithermal alteration zones. A total of 18 trenches were excavated covering 5 mineralized zones (North, South, Central, Discovery and Trail Zones), all of which were mapped in detail and sampled. Based on the results of these programs a 19 hole NQ drill program was completed totaling 3,024 meters. This included 11 holes in the North Zone, 7 holes in the South Zone and 1 diamond drill hole in the Central Zone. The program confirmed the presence of widespread anomalous gold concentrations but failed to delineate any zones of economic significance.
In June, 1992, a total of seventeen 2-post claims were added on the claim group, presumably to ensure there were no internal fractions between the Clisbako 4 & 13, 7 & 14, 5 & 10 and 8 & 10 claims. Minnova conducted a gradient array IP geophysical survey over 17 partial grid lines covering those zones identified to date in the central portion of the property. An additional 7 trenches were completed in the West Lake, Gore, West Pit and Central Zones. An 11 hole, 1,358 meter NQ drill program was conducted to evaluate the results of the gradient array IP survey and extensions to zones identified in 1991. Although the drilling intersected extensive widths of strong epithermal alteration in each target area, no significant precious metal values were detected. Nonetheless, indicator elements such as mercury, arsenic and tin were strongly anomalous throughout, indicating that the system as a whole has a classic epithermal signature.
Phelps Dodge: 1994 - 1996
After the expiration of Minnova’s option, Phelps Dodge examined the property and subsequently optioned it in the fall of 1994. Phelps Dodge, through Fox Geological Services Inc., carried out a 22 line kilometer soil geochemical sampling program in 1994. Thick glacial till cover in the project area effectively masks any bedrock leaching and the soil survey failed to define zones of epithermal alteration.
Fox Geological was retained again to conduct a combined rock and soil geochemistry program, IP geophysical survey, geological mapping and a diamond drilling program during the 1995 field season. The 1995 program focused on developing new targets in relatively under explored parts of the property and further evaluating known zones of mineralization with limited historical work.
Fox Geological Services completed 58 kilometers of gridding west of Camp Lake to the western claim boundary. Mapping and prospecting on the grid generated 339 rock samples of bedrock and float, returning values from trace to 9760 ppb gold. This sample was collected from a cluster of weakly quartz veined feldspar phyric rhyolite float boulders within a discrete dispersion train in till. The bedrock source of these boulders has not been discovered.
Soil geochemical surveys totaling 22 line kilometers covered the western and central portions of the claim group along one kilometer spaced lines with detailed coverage in the Gore and Bari zones resulting in 677 soil samples. Anomalous gold results were usually isolated, one sample occurrences, but anomalous arsenic values outlined a prominent 2000 meter by 800 meter north trending zone which coincided with several new zones of quartz veining outlined by prospecting. Additional follow-up was recommended in the Bari 1 and 2 zones.
The IP survey consisted of a total of 17.8 line kilometers. Two different arrays were utilized: a reconnaissance style survey with electrodes spaced 75 meters apart along road lines and a detailed survey with 150 meter electrode spacing over two established grid lines. The wider separations failed to detect any anomalous readings that were not detected using shorter separations.
A total of 700.9 meters of NQ2 diamond drilling in 4 drill holes was conducted on the West Lake boulder train and the Obvious Zone. Drilling failed to encounter economic concentrations of gold with results similar to those obtained from the North and South Zones.
Phelps Dodge noticed in 1995 that several extensive intervals of Minnova’s drill core had not been sampled, and undertook to split, sample and assay these intervals. A total of 708.5 meters of diamond drill core from the Minnova program was sampled in the fall of 1995, returning elevated sub-economic results for gold, arsenic and tin in sections from holes 91-04 and 92-22.
A short 4 day field program was completed in 1996 consisting of geological mapping and sampling in the Bari Zone area. A total of 24 rock samples were submitted for analysis with the best results reporting 294 ppb gold. Most samples over 50 ppb gold were from boulder float. Elevated arsenic amounts up to 5194 ppm were returned. As with the high gold results, the majority of the elevated arsenic results are from boulder float samples.
Although a large gold bearing epithermal system had been outlined in the central claim area covering approximately 20 square kilometers, gold tenors are generally very low, rarely exceeding 500 ppb.
Goodall (Global Geological): 1996 - 2003
The Bako 1 to 16 claims were subsequently staked by Geoff Goodall, P. Geo. In 1996 to cover previously identified zones of alteration and mineralization. A prospecting program was conducted on the Bako 1 to 5 mineral claims in the spring of 2002. These claims cover eight zones of hydrothermal alteration typified by pronounced bleaching of the host felsic volcanics and are characterized by intense argillic alteration accompanied by multi-stage intense quartz veining, weak to strong silicification, and/or hydrothermal brecciation. The work program consisted of prospecting traverses and rock geochemical sampling of areas adjacent to and within previously discovered zones of alteration. A total of fifty-two rock samples were collected. A strong correlation was shown to exist between anomalous gold values and anomalous silver
values. Samples with anomalous concentrations of antimony also had anomalous levels of arsenic, and mercury was weakly anomalous.
Bard Ventures: 2003 - 2004
The property was optioned to Bard Ventures in late 2003 and Global Geological Services established two geophysical grids over the Discovery and Brooks Zones totaling 24.5 line kilometers. Previous mapping and sampling programs within these areas uncovered concentrations of quartz rich boulder float with grab samples indicated anomalous gold values.
Regional Geology
The Clisbako property is located in the northern part of the Chilcotin Plateau. Specifically, it is situated in the south central part of the Anahim Volcanic Belt along an east-west trend defined by three peralkaline shield volcano complexes (Rainbow Range, Ilgachuz Range, Itcha Range) that comprise the western part of the belt. The oldest rocks exposed in the Chilcotin Plateau area are Pennsylvanian to Permian age Cache Creek Group sedimentary rocks. These are overlain by upper Triassic to lower Jurassic Takla Group andesite-basalt flows, tuffs and breccias and associated clastic rocks. Predominant in the northern portion of the Chilcotin Plateau are andesite flows and breccias, and sedimentary rocks of the mid-Jurassic Hazelton Group. This sequence is unconformably overlain by the upper Cretaceous, Paleocene, Eocene and possibly Oligocene rocks of the Ootsa Lake Group. This latter Group is comprised of rhyolitic to dacitic tuffs, flows and breccias with minor amounts of andesite, basalt, conglomerate and tuffaceous shale.
A sequence of Eocene to Miocene andesite, dacite and rhyolite volcanics of the Endako Group and Pliocene to Pleistocene Chilcotin Group vesicular andesite and basalt flows, breccias and cinder cones conformably overlie the Ootsa Lake Group. Pleistocene to recent till, gravel and sand infill drainages basins and locally form eskers and moraines up to 100 meters thick. Phelps Dodge compiled a detailed regional geology synopsis of the area as part of the work they conducted.
The Clisbako property is dominantly underlain by felsic volcanics and volcaniclastics of Eocene age that are referred to informally as the Clisbako Volcanics. The Clisbako Volcanics underlie a large, regionally circular area within which a wide variety of assemblages of the Clisbako Volcanics occur. This area appears to be a distinct basin of volcanic deposition and is referred to as the Clisbako Caldera Complex. The age of the complex is Early to Middle Eocene, based on Potassium-Argon age dates and palynology. Chemically similar volcanics, also of Eocene age, to the north in the Nechako River map area are referred to as the Ootsa Lake Group (for the felsic members) and the Endako Group (for the basic and intermediate members).
Volcanic, subvolcanic and volcaniclastic rocks within the Clisbako Caldera Complex range in composition from basalt to rhyolite and include a wide variety of textural types and facies assemblages. Dacites, rhyodacites and rhyolites are the most common compositional types, with andesites and basalts subordinate. Passive eruptive sequences of flows and domes are the most abundant volcanic assemblages with explosive pyroclastics more common towards its west central parts. Associated with both the passive and explosive assemblages is a highly variable assemblage of lahars, fanglomerates, coarse and fine-grained fluvial assemblages and locally, chemically deposited siliceous sinters that have been interpreted as parts of a moat facies. Chemical analysis of these volcanics shows them to be potassium-rich and may be classified as belonging to the high-potash calcalkaline magma series.
Passive eruptive sequences of flows and domes are the most abundant volcanic assemblages. Explosive pyroclastics occur throughout the Caldera Complex, but are most common towards its west-central parts. Intimate with both the passive and explosive volcanic assemblages is a highly variable assemblage of lahars and fanglomerates, coarse and fine-grained fluvial assemblages and locally, chemically deposited siliceous sinters that comprise volcaniclastic sediments that are here interpreted as parts of a "moat" facies. Rock units of the moat facies from recessive assemblages and are very poorly exposed. The distribution of these three facies assemblages within the caldera suggests the presence of a number of separate basins within the larger caldera structure.
In the north and northeastern parts of the complex, aphyric and biotite phyric rhyolite and rhyodacite flows and flow domes are common. In the north part of the area a lahar- moat facies containing boulder breccia, conglomerate, sandstones and lacustrine siltstone with opaline sinters is associated with mainly flow and
flowdome units of andesite and dacite composition. The south eastern part of the caldera complex is underlain by platy fractured, generally aphyric to weakly augite phyric dacite and andesite, with local areas of basalt and minor suggestions of the presence of a lacustrine moat facies. The southwestern part of the caldera is underlain mainly by dacitic, andesite and subordinate biotite phyric flow units, with local areas to the north of biotitequartz phyric rhyolite flow and pyroclastics. Here, the lahar-lacustrine-siliceous sinter moat assemblage occupies a large area in the central part of this southwestern sector.
The central and northwestern parts of the Clisbako Caldera complex, underlying the Clisbako, Baez and Bako claim blocks, are underlain by a bimodal suite of volcanics. Here, the dominant facies is an assemblage of aphyric to weakly to moderately augite and feldspar phyric dacite flows with local intercalations of polylithic volcaniclastics, volcanogenic breccia and fluvial clastics. The subordinate volcanic assemblage in this central and western sector comprises varieties of variably quartz, biotite, hornblende, plagioclase and sanidine phyric felsic volcanics that includes explosive ash flow tuffs, subvolcanic intrusions and breccias. Moat facies assemblages, including siliceous sinters have been noted in this area proximal to the felsic volcanic assemblages to the immediate northeast of this west-central facies, and the presence of boulders in float train suggests its presence within the area.
Property Geology
The Clisbako Property area is one of very low relief that has been extensively glaciated. Glaciation advanced from the south-southwest, covering the area with a variable thickness of till. Outcrop is very limited within the project area and bedrock exposure is likely under 1%. The best exposures are found on rounded, hummocky ridge crests and are dominated by platy to massive dacites and rhyodacites. Outcrop is also exposed in incised outwash channels and in logging slashes. The more recessive and easily weathered rock assemblages such as the moat facies and clay-argillic alteration assemblages are poorly represented in natural exposures, although their distribution has been somewhat enhanced by logging slashes and road cuts.
Contacts were not observed between major units and very rarely seen between beds. All age relationships between stratigraphic elements are deductive. In addition, no zone of definitive faulting could be documented by the presence of natural and man-made exposures, with the exception of trenching in the North Zone. There, the zone is very strongly faulted, marked by clay gouge, kaolinized zones and shattered rock and serves to suggest that faulting is an important, if mostly hidden, structural element.
Dacitic flow units underlie much of the terrain in the central and western parts of the Clisbako claim area. Rhyolite assemblage fragmental units underlie the low lying slopes to the north and east. These rocks are in turn overlain by Miocene basalts along the Clisbako River valley. Most units strike northerly and dip gently east although dip reversals are common.
Exploration work to date has focused on an area roughly two kilometers by four kilometers in size. Rocks in this area consist of rhyolitic flows, tuffs and breccias interbedded with dacite and amydgaloidal andesite flows and associated pyroclastic rocks. These are tilted and block-faulted and fill a north-trending, shallow, graben and local depositional basins.
The stratigraphic and subvolcanic lithologies that underlie the Clisbako claims can be subdivided into three separate assemblages consisting of, in probable chronological order, a dacitic facies, a rhyolite facies and a basalt-andesite assemblage. These east-dipping strata are disrupted by north-trending faults near Mount Dent and at Camp Lake on the Clisbako claims. Fluvial and lacustrine (moat facies) volcaniclastic sediments form portions of all three assemblages. The most extensive and probably oldest volcanic facies is represented by a suite of dacitic flows that are typically aphanitic to sparsely porphyritic with fine-grained augite phenocrysts. Locally interbedded with the volcanics of the Dacite Assemblage are variable thicknesses of clastic rocks that range from sharpstone conglomerate-fanglomerate to laminated fluvial fine-grained sandstone composed of detritus derived directly from the dacite flows.
Rhyolites of the felsic facies assemblage lie in a north-south trending band through the central part of the claim block. This assemblage has been interpreted as one of the centers of felsic volcanism within the Clisbako Caldera Complex. Volcanic and subvolcanic members of this facies include ash flow tuffs, flows, breccias, dykes and domes (plugs) and are composed of variations of plagioclase, biotite, quartz, hornblende and sanidine phenocrysts. It is distinguished from the dacite assemblage by the presence of common
hydrous minerals biotite and hornblende. Associated spatially and compositionally with rhyolites of the felsic assemblage are volcaniclastics of a moat facies, including ash tuffs, siltstone, sandstone, conglomerate and siliceous sinters.
Overlying the Clisbako Formation is a 30 to 50 meter thick basalt-andesite facies, the youngest unit. This is comprised of olivine basalt flows and locally abundant pyroclastic rocks and has been correlated with the Miocene Endako Group. It appears in the extreme northeast portion of the claim block.
North to north-northeast striking faults are the most prominent structures on the property. They dip moderately to steeply east and west (40° to 80°) and are responsible for extensive block faulting of the Clisbako Formation. Measured offsets range from a few meters to about 200 meters. Epithermal alteration is hosted by several of these faults.
Faulting has caused considerable rotation of the volcanic sequence, resulting in highly variable dips. For example, on the west part of the grid, units of the Dacite member dip steeply to vertically while at the North Zone bedding is nearly flat lying.
A shallow graben is defined by the north trending faults in the grid area. Epithermal style alteration at the North, Central, South, Gore and West Lake zones occur along these structures. The easternmost fault, the East Boundary Fault, hosts epithermal alteration intermittently over a length of 2 kilometers. The South, Trail and Central Zones occur along this structure.
Other structures include northwest and northeast trending linears which form conspicuous drainage patterns in the northeast claim area. They have no measurable offset and their significance is uncertain.
Several occurrences of epithermal-style alteration are known in the east part of the property. They are all similar in style.
The zones are characterized by wide haloes of pervasive argillic alteration occurring in the hanging wall of the graben faults. Extensive stockworks of quartz, pyrite (+ marcasite) veinlets occur throughout the argillic zones. Overall sulphide content averages about 0.5% .
Stockworks grade into areas of pervasive silicification close to the faults. These commonly contain irregular shaped bodies of hydrothermal breccia and banded veins.
Argillic alteration occurs up to 100m into the hanging wall of the source structures. In zones where several parallel structures occur close together, such as at the North Zone, the argillic zones coalesce. Silicification is more restricted, occurring as 1 to 25 meter wide zones along fault planes. Narrow subparallel silicified zones also occur in the footwall of the host structures.
Footwall alteration is less intense than the hanging wall alteration. Argillic alteration is typical, however at some locations weak propylitization consisting mostly of chlorite and calcite veinlets is developed.
Alteration is well developed in a variety of host rocks. At the North, West Lake and Central zones alteration occurs in rhyolites and crystal tuffs. At the South Zone, the strongest alteration is hosted by amygdaloidal andesite.
Mineralization
Mineralization at Clisbako consists of epithermal silica stockworks and breccias developed on north-striking faults. Previous operators have outlined eight zones of hydrothermal alteration on the property. These zones are associated with rocks of the felsic assemblage, grading outward into rocks of the dacite assemblage. The zones are referred to as the Bari, Brooks, Gore, Discovery, Obvious, West Lake, South and North zones. The alteration zones are typified by pronounced bleaching of the host felsic volcanics and are characterized by intense argillic alteration accompanied by multi-stage intense quartz veining, weak to strong silicification, and/or hydrothermal brecciation. Locally, early argillic alteration is almost completely overprinted and masked by later successive stages of silicification.
It has been suggested that the hydrothermal alteration and mineralization were developed along complex steeply dipping north to north-east trending fault structures which were formed during the development of the Clisbako Caldera. However, within the claim area the alteration zones appear to be controlled by a series of closely spaced subparallel small-scale faults, rather than a single major structure. The rocks between the individual small-scale faults are highly fractured, intensely hydrothermally altered and flooded with a pervasive stockwork of quartz veinlets.
The various mineralized zones and prospects, along with boulders in glacial dispersion trains, are composed of quartz veined volcanic rocks. Vein textures include massive fine to medium grained quartz, banded chalcedony, stockworks of comb-textured quartz and drusy vugs. Calcite occurs in very small amounts and as fracture coatings and as replacement of alkali feldspars in propylitically altered rock. Quartz veins are varied and have been described as; stockwork, druzy, massive, sugary, stringers, blue/black, chalcedonic, banded, comb quartz in open space fillings, crustiform, or brecciated. Some of the veins show quartz pseudomorphs after coarse bladed calcite, evidence of boiling.
The argillic zones contain an average of less than 0.5% sulfide mineralization, but in the silicified zones the sulfide content may reach 5% over narrow widths. Low sulphide concentrations are typical of an acid-sulphate epithermal system.
Pyrite is the dominant sulphide and typically is very fine grained. In this form it most commonly occurs as disseminations in dark gray to blue-black chalcedonic quartz, is disseminated in the matrices of siliceous hydrothermal breccias, or fills quartz lined cavities. Coarse-grained pyrite is locally associated with marcasite and arsenopyrite. Pyragerite has been identified south of Clisbako Lake, within the North Zone, and may be the main silver bearing mineral. Barite has been observed at several localities.
Alteration fringing the siliceous lodes and breccias is dominantly argillic, generally widespread and locally intense. It consists of illite and montmorillonite replacement of plagioclase feldspar phenocrysts and the ground mass, with minor sericitization of hornblende and biotite phenocrysts. Mineralized zones generally comprise an inner zone of silicious breccia and quartz stockworks lying on or within controlling fault structures and a wide distal zone of argillic alteration that may extend up to 150 meters or more out from the silica core zone. Propylitic alteration is pervasive and comprises fine disseminated and fracture controlled chlorite which imparts a pale green color to the rocks. It is accompanied by variable amounts of calcite along fractures and as replacement of alkali feldspar. Potassic alteration as measured by alkali feldspar staining of rocks is variable. In only one occurrence has potassium feldspar been observed within a vein. Gold grades are elevated close to the inner silicified zone while the argillic envelope is usually barren. The various zones explored are described in detail below.
The North zone lies in a down-faulted block of feldspar (+/- quartz) phyric rhyolite flows and tuffs and dacite flows and pyroclastic breccias south of Camp Lake. It is exposed in a gully in which trench excavations have exposed argillic-altered rocks over 300 meters. It has a well defined east boundary marked by a fault. The west boundary is poorly constrained and is probably continuous with the West Lake Zone.
Alteration associated with north-striking faults consists of extensive silicification, quartz and pyrite stockworks, banded epithermal veins and siliceous breccia. These zones contain elevated precious metal and pathfinder element values. Argillic alteration is most pronounced distal from the siliceous zones. Barren quartz stockworks are common in the argillic zone.
The Central zone is a stockwork lying along the same fault structure that hosts the South zone. Quartz-clay alteration is similar to that at the North zone, with extensive quartz stockworks and pervasive argillic alteration occurring in a flow-banded dacite. The zone is narrow and probably connects with the North Zone to the north.
Four trenches have been excavated on the Discovery zone across two narrow, hydrothermal breccias. The best gold grades (133 to 421 ppb gold) were obtained from a two meter wide zone of quartz stockworks, white, vuggy quartz veins and hydrothermal breccia. The matrix consists of a bluish-grey clay gouge. The wallrock, which consists of flow banded dacite, is moderately silicified up to four meters away from the breccia. The highest gold tenor (421 ppb) was obtained from the most intensely altered material. A second less altered breccia, consists of black, sulphidic quartz fragments in a moderate to strongly argillized dacite
host. This interval was only weakly mineralized (102 ppb gold), however a sulphide-rich interval was enriched in arsenic (2,930 ppb).
The South Zone is typified by a large area of silicification and hydrothermal breccia. The main outcrop area, in a small creek at the south end of the property, consists of a zone of hydrothermal breccia, veins and stockworks over an outcrop area of 150 meters and has been traced by drilling for some 300 meters.
The zone shows evidence of multiple stages of silicification indicated by cross cutting relationships and clast types within hydrothermal breccia veins. The hanging wall is strongly bleached and variably silicified in which a strongly developed stockwork of pyritic veinlets are cut by irregular veins of dark grey, banded chalcedony. One such vein was traced continuously for 22 meters. It was from these veins that the best assays were obtained by Minnova. The highest tenor was 3,300 ppb gold over a two-meter sample.
Despite the intense alteration, silicification and breccia development, precious metal and pathfinder element concentrations are low. The highest gold concentrations occur in sulphide-rich hydrothermal breccias and zones of banded grey chalcedony. Minnova drilled ten holes in the South zone area in 1991 and 1992. Most holes returned low grade to barren zones of siliceous breccia. The best hole, DOH 92-30 returned 2.0 meters of 228 ppb gold.
Two zones were identified by IP surveys southwest of Camp Lake, the West Lake and West Pit Zones. The West Pit is a 200-metre long chargeability high centered on line 416N at 285+00E. It has been traced intermittently as far south as line 400N. Trenching in 1992 failed to reach bedrock. Subcrop and overburden contains abundant bright yellow clay along with fragments of silicified rock and vein quartz. The West Lake zone, immediately west of the North zone, consists of a coincident chargeability and resistivity high with a strike length of about 300 meters. Trenching on the West Lake zone exposed a quartz stockwork zone containing three-meter wide banded and bladed, pyritic, quartz-chalcedony veins. The best chip samples across the altered zone returned 8.5 g/t gold over one meter from one of the veins.
Minnova drilled six holes in the West Lake-West Pit area in 1992 to follow-up trenching and induced polarization surveys. The best hole, 92-27, returned 135 ppb gold over an interval of 2.0 meters.
The Obvious Zone is located along the 4200 Forest Service Road approximately 2 kilometers north of the North Zone at Camp Lake, and was discovered by prospecting the excavated ditches adjacent to the road. Float boulders of quartz veins and silicified feldspar phyric rhyolite tuffs are present within till and subcrop. The best grab sample returned 156 ppb gold with elevated arsenic. The Obvious Zone was drill tested by hole 236-34.
The West Lake Boulder Train is located along a reclaimed logging access road along the west shore of Camp Lake. The boulder dispersion train comprises angular float blocks up to 50 cm in size in till along a tightly confined, north trending dispersion train over 600 meters in length. Float blocks include massive fine grained quartz, silica breccias and quartz stockworks. The best grab sample returned 1528 ppb gold. This zone was drill tested by 3 drill holes, 236-31, 236-32, and 236-33.
The Gore Zone is located approximately 1.5 kilometers southwest of the North Zone on the eastern slope of the ridge rising to the west of Camp Lake. The Zone comprises north trending massive silica breccias and quartz vein stockworks within dacite flows and rhyolite tuffs and is exposed over an area of 500 meters by 50 meters. Bedrock and float boulder sampling returned low gold values ranging from trace to 315 ppb.
The Bari Zone comprises two separate silica breccia bodies and several float and subcrop occurrences centered about 2.5 kilometers due west of the North Zone. Local lithologies include propylitically altered dacite flows and a 50 meter thick pyroclastic breccia unit with variably silicified angular clasts. Two separate zones, the Bari 1 and Bari 2 zones are partially exposed through a thin cover of till and comprise north-trending zones of hydrothermal breccia up to five meters thick. Accessory minerals include arsenopyrite and barite and possible sulphosalts indicated by an unusual grass green colored weathering. The peak gold value is 239 ppb from the Bari 1 and 466 ppb gold from the Bari 2. Both zones are within a large arsenic soil anomaly which extends for 2 kilometers from L 406N to L 426N.
Detailed sampling in 1996 failed to enhance the prospect with best results from outcrop reporting a high of 68 ppb Gold. High arsenic values of up to 5194 ppm were returned from float boulders.
Prospecting and rock geochemical sampling on the Bari Zone in 2002 has confirmed the existence of epithermal style gold and silver mineralization within an argillically altered and quartz veined felsic volcanic assemblage. More than 80% of the 52 rock samples returned anomalous values for gold, silver, arsenic, tin, mercury, molybdenum or barium. The highest values were 770 ppb gold, 56.6 ppm silver, 8330 ppm arsenic, 346 ppm tin and 7 ppm mercury. These results were returned from dark gray or blue-black colored veins with or without banding, or from silicified zones that displayed several stages of brecciation. Local development of intense brecciation suggests repeated sealing and fracturing permitting hydrothermal fluids to repeatedly permeate the system.
Conclusions and Recommended Exploration Program
James Chapman, P. Geo. and P. Eng., and Willie Kushner, B.Sc. Geo., our consulting geologists, conclude that a strong potential for mineralization on the property lies within structurally controlled features at depth.
Our consulting geologists recommend a three-phase continuing exploration program be undertaken on the property to determine the prime localities of mineralization on which to focus concentrated exploration. The three-phase program and its approximate estimated costs consist of the following:
ITEM 3.