ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
The table below summarizes certain data for our core operating areas for the year ended December 31, 2007:
Segment reporting is not applicable to us as we have a single company-wide management team that administers all properties as a whole rather than by discrete operating segments. We track only basic operational data by area. We do not maintain complete separate financial statement information by area. We measure financial performance as a single enterprise and not on an area-by-area basis.
Illinois Basin
In the Illinois Basin, we own 2,017 net wells, 99% of which we operate. We have approximately 356,000 gross (116,000 net) acres under lease, which includes our interests in the Lawrence Field and New Albany Shale.
Total proved reserves increased approximately 1.2 MMBOE, or 11%, to approximately 12.0 MMBOE at December 31, 2007, when compared to year-end 2006. Annual production increased 41% over 2006. Capital expenditures in 2007 for developmental drilling and facility improvements in the region were approximately $14.8 million, which funded the drilling of 32 gross (31.8 net) development wells, of which 23 gross (22.9 net) were productive and 9 gross (8.9 net) were expected to be completed and producing during the first quarter of 2008. Capital expenditures in 2007 also funded the recompletion of 12 gross (11.9 net) recompletions. Additionally, in the Illinois Basin, capital expenditures for drilling and facilities development for the New Albany Shale project totaled approximately $3.2 million, which funded the drilling of 8 gross (2 net) exploratory wells. These wells are currently under evaluation to determine if they will be economical to produce. Capital expenditures for drilling and facilities development for the Lawrence Field ASP Flood Project in Lawrence County, Illinois totaled approximately $5.5 million, of which approximately $4.1 funded facilities development and the remaining $1.4 million funded the drilling or recompletion of 10 gross (10 net) exploratory producer wells and 7 gross (7 net) exploratory injector wells.
At December 31, 2007, the Illinois Basin had a development inventory of 216 proven drilling locations and 172 proven recompletions. Development projects include recompletions, infill drilling and continued refinement of secondary recovery operations. These activities also include increasing reserves and production through aggressive cost control, upgrading lifting equipment, improving gathering systems and surface facilities and performing restimulations and refracturing operations.
Lawrence Field ASP Flood Project
We are implementing an ASP flood project in the Cypress and Bridgeport Sandstone reservoirs of our Lawrence Field acreage. The Lawrence Field ASP Flood Project is one of our largest projects. The Lawrence Field ASP Flood Project is considered an EOR project, which refers to recovery of oil that is not producible by primary or secondary recovery methods.
The Lawrence Field in Lawrence County, Illinois, is believed to have produced more than 400 million barrels of oil from 23 separate horizons since its discovery in 1906. We currently own and operate 21.2 square
miles (approximately 13,500 net acres) of the Lawrence Field and our properties account for approximately 85% of the current total gross production from the field. The Cypress (Mississippian) and the Bridgeport (Pennsylvanian) sandstones are the major producing horizons in the field. To date, approximately 40% of the estimated one billion barrels of original oil in place has been produced.
In the 1960s, 1970s and 1980s, a number of EOR projects using surfactant polymer floods were implemented in several fields in the Illinois Basin by Marathon Oil Corp. (“Marathon”), Texaco and Exxon in an attempt to recover a portion of the large percentage of the original oil in place that was being bypassed by the secondary recovery waterflood. These test projects reportedly were able to recover incremental oil reserves of 15% to 30% of the original oil in place.
In 1982, Marathon began a surfactant polymer flood project in the Lawrence Field on the Robins Lease, a 25-acre lease in the Lawrence Field within one mile of the site of one of our pilot test locations. This project was initiated at a time when the price per barrel of oil was below $15 and the technology of combining alkali and surfactant with polymer, which significantly reduces costs of recovery compared with the previous surfactant polymer floods, had not yet been fully developed. Despite the high costs of the surfactant polymer flooding employed by Marathon and the low oil prices, the project produced an estimated 450,000 incremental barrels, or an estimated 21% the of original oil in place. While we believe the results of this project are pertinent, there can be no assurance that our Lawrence Field ASP Flood Project, which uses technology that was not developed at the time of the Robins Lease flood, will achieve similar results.
ASP technology, which uses similar mechanisms to mobilize bypassed residual oil as these previous surfactant polymer floods but at significantly lower costs, has been applied by other companies in several fields around the world resulting in significant incremental recoveries of the original oil in place. Chemicals used in the Lawrence Field ASP Flood Project are an alkali (NaOH or Na2CO3), a surfactant and a polymer. The alkali (1% to 2%) and surfactant (0.1% to 0.4%) combination washes residual oil from the reservoir mainly by reducing interfacial tension between the oil and the water. The polymer (800 to 1400 parts per million) is added to improve sweep displacement efficiency. ASP technology achieves its incremental recovery by reducing capillary forces that trap oil, improving aerial and vertical sweep efficiency and reducing mobility ratio.
Our Lawrence Field ASP Flood Project will use ASP technology to flood our Lawrence Field wells. The goal of our Lawrence Field ASP Flood Project is to duplicate the oil recovery performance of the surfactant polymer floods conducted in the field in the 1980s, but at a significantly lower cost. We expect this cost reduction to be accomplished by utilizing newer technologies to optimize the synergistic performance of the three chemicals used, and by using alkali in the formula, which would allow us to use a significantly lower concentration of the more costly surfactant.
In 2000, PennTex Illinois, then known as Plains Illinois, Inc., and the U.S. Department of Energy conducted a study on the potential of an ASP project in the Lawrence Field with consulting services provided by Surtek, Inc. (“Surtek”), an independent engineering firm specializing in the design and implementation of chemical oil recovery systems. Based on modeling of the reservoir characteristics and laboratory tests with cores taken in the Lawrence Field, the evaluation found oil recovery in the field could be increased significantly by installing an ASP flood. Similar EOR techniques have been successfully demonstrated in fields around the world to recover an additional 15% to 30% of the original oil in place. However, there can be no assurance that our Lawrence Field ASP Flood Project will achieve similar results.
In 2006, we engaged Surtek to review and update the evaluation on the application of the ASP process to the Lawrence Field. This evaluation, based on laboratory results, recommended two pilot areas to evaluate the ASP process in the Bridgeport and Cypress sandstones. The ASP pilot test locations are positioned in areas that we believe are representative of variabilities that can be expected in these reservoirs. Based on Surtek’s recommendations, we drilled and cored the central producing well in each of the two proposed pilot test areas. These cores were sent to Surtek for ASP chemical system design. During 2007, Surtek completed their linear and
radial core flood analysis on the Cypress and Bridgeport sandstones, which in the laboratory, resulted in an oil recovery rate as high as 21% of the estimated original oil-in-place in the Cypress sandstone, and 24% of the original oil-in-place in the Bridgeport sandstone. These results were in line with our initial projections.
During 2006 and 2007, we drilled 18 wells in our two pilot areas, upgraded the pilot area production facilities, installed the production flow-lines to both pilot areas, installed the pilot injection pipelines, and began construction of the pilot area chemical injection plant. We plan to initiate injection of the ASP chemicals on the two pilots in the second quarter of 2008. If either of these two pilots is successful, we plan to implement a broad ASP flood program within the 13,500 net acres of the field that we currently own and operate, commencing in 2009. While we are encouraged by initial laboratory results, our Lawrence Field ASP Flood Project is not a proved project nor are any of the potential reserves from this project considered proved at this time.
New Albany Shale
As of December 31, 2007, we had acquired, over 306,000 gross (92,000 net) acres in southern Indiana that we believe to be prospective for New Albany Shale development. The New Albany Shale is predominantly an organic-rich black shale that is present in the subsurface throughout the Illinois Basin. Where the stratigraphy is known, the gas reservoirs are observed to be in the organic-rich black shales of the Grassy Creek (Shale), Clegg Creek, and Blocher (Shale) Members. Natural fractures are believed to provide the effective reservoirs permeability in these zones and gas is stored both as free gas in fractures and as adsorbed gas on kerogen and clay surfaces. Although limited gas production from vertical wells in the New Albany Shale has occurred for many years, interest in the potential of the New Albany Shale has recently increased due to the application of horizontal drilling techniques which can intersect numerous vertical fractures, significantly increasing the amount of reservoir contacted by each wellbore.
Since February 2006, we have participated in 11 gross New Albany Shale wells, four of which we operate, in Greene County and Knox County, Indiana. Of these wells, three wells drilled in 2006 were determined to be uneconomical and were expensed as dry holes in the fourth quarter of 2007, two have been tested and are awaiting pipeline connections, and six are still being evaluated to determine whether they will be economical to complete and produce and to design stimulation procedures, if required.
Appalachian Basin
As of December 31, 2007, we own approximately 557 gross producing natural gas wells in the Appalachian Basin, predominantly in Pennsylvania. These wells are characterized as shallow, predominantly drilled on 40 acre spacing at depths less than 5,000 feet, natural gas wells which have historically been long-life shallow decline reserves. In addition to our producing wells in the basin, we own 44 proved undeveloped drilling locations with total reserves of 4.6 Bcf, and three locations with proved developed non-producing reserves totaling 177 MMcf. At December 31, 2007, we had approximately 70,000 gross (33,000 net) acres in the Appalachian Basin under lease, of which 35,000 gross (18,000 net) acres were undeveloped.
Reserves at December 31, 2007 increased 2.4 Bcf, or 24%, from 2006 due primarily to drilling additions which were partially offset by a net unfavorable reserve revision and production. Annual production increased 11% over 2006. Capital expenditures in 2007 for drilling and facility development in the region were approximately $5.2 million, which funded the drilling of 24 gross (14 net) development wells, of which 21 gross (12 net) were productive and three gross (two net) were expected to be completed and producing during the first quarter of 2008. During 2007, the region achieved a 100% drilling success rate.
Marcellus Shale
A large portion of our property in Pennsylvania is located in areas where active exploration for the Marcellus Shale, by companies such as Range Resources Corporation (NYSE:RRC), Equitable Resources, Inc.
(NYSE:EQT), EOG Resources, Inc. (NYSE:EOG) and Atlas Energy Resources, LLC (NYSE: ATN), is occurring with encouraging results. The Marcellus Shale is a black, organic rich shale formation located at depths between 7,000 and 8,500 feet and ranges in thickness from 75 to 150 feet on our acreage in southwestern and central Pennsylvania. As of December 31, 2007 we had interests in approximately 44,000 gross (21,000 net) Marcellus Shale prospective acres in these areas of Pennsylvania, and we continue to expand our position. As of March 20, 2008, we increased our position to approximately 60,000 gross (30,000 net) Marcellus Shale prospective acres in these areas of Pennsylvania. During 2008, we plan to begin testing our acreage in these areas and to continue to expand our acreage positions in this emerging play. As of December 31, 2007, we had not yet completed any wells and have not booked any proved reserves in the Marcellus Shale.
Southwestern Region
Our operations in our Southwestern region include several producing oil and gas fields in Lea and Eddy Counties, New Mexico, Terrell County, Texas and other producing regions of western Texas. At December 31, 2007, we operated 93 wells, and owned interests in another 59 wells, in west Texas and southeast New Mexico. At December 31, 2007, we had approximately 15,000 gross (10,000 net) acres in the Southwestern region under lease, of which approximately 1,900 gross (1,500 net) acres were undeveloped.
Reserves decreased approximately 200 MBOE, or 10%, in 2007. On an annual basis, production decreased approximately 1% from 2006. Capital expenditures in 2007 for drilling and facility development in the region totaled approximately $4.0 million, which funded the drilling of one gross (.8 net) development wells, and three gross (three net) exploratory wells, of which, one gross (one net) was expensed as a dry hole in 2007 and two gross (two net) were still being evaluated to determine if they would be economical to produce at year end. Capital expenditures in 2007 also funded the recompletion of 11 gross (8.8 net) wells. At December 31, 2007, the Southwestern region had a development inventory of eight proven drilling locations and three proven recompletions.
Proved Reserves
Netherland, Sewell & Associates, Inc., an independent petroleum engineering firm, evaluated our reserves on a consolidated basis as of December 31, 2007. All of our reserves are located within the continental United States. Reserve estimates are inherently imprecise and remain subject to revisions based on production history, results of additional exploration and development, prices of oil and natural gas and other factors. Please read “Item 1A - Risk Factors-Our estimated reserves are based on many assumptions that may turn out to be inaccurate. Any significant inaccuracies in these reserve estimates or underlying assumptions may materially affect the quantities and present value of our reserves.” You should also read the notes following the table below and our consolidated and combined financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2007 in conjunction with the following reserve estimates. We did not file any reports during the year ended December 31, 2007 with any federal authority or agency with respect to our estimates of oil and natural gas reserves.
The following table sets forth our estimated proved reserves at the end of each of the past three years:
(1) The estimates of reserves in the table above conform to the guidelines of the SEC. Estimated recoverable proved reserves have been determined without regard to any economic impact that may result from our financial derivative activities. These calculations were prepared using standard geological and engineering methods generally accepted by the petroleum industry. The estimated present value of proved reserves does not give effect to indirect expenses such as debt service and future income tax expense, asset retirement obligations or to depletion, depreciation and amortization. The reserve information shown is estimated. The accuracy of any reserve estimate is a function of the quality of available geological, geophysical, engineering and economic data, the precision of the engineering and geological interpretation and judgment. The estimates of reserves, future cash flows and present value are based on various assumptions, and are inherently imprecise. Although we believe these estimates are reasonable, actual future production, cash flows, taxes, development expenditures, operating expenses and quantities of recoverable oil and natural gas reserves may vary substantially from these estimates. Also, the use of a 10% discount factor for reporting purposes may not necessarily represent the most appropriate discount factor, given actual interest rates and risks to which our business or the oil and natural gas industry in general are subject.
(2) We converted natural gas to barrels of oil equivalent at a ratio of one barrel to six Mcf.
(3) Represents the present value, discounted at 10% per annum (PV-10), of estimated future cash flows before income tax of our estimated proved reserves. The estimated future cash flows set forth above were determined by using reserve quantities of proved reserves and the periods in which they are expected to be developed and produced based on economic conditions prevailing at December 31, 2007. The estimated future production is priced at December 31, 2007, without escalation, using $92.50 per bbl and $6.795 per MMBtu and adjusted by lease for transportation fees and regional price differentials. Management believes that the presentation of the non-GAAP financial measure of PV-10 provides useful information to investors because it is widely used by professional analysts and sophisticated investors in evaluating oil and natural gas companies. For an explanation of why we show PV-10 and a reconciliation of PV-10 to the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flow, please read “Selected Historical Financial and Operating Data-Non-GAAP Financial Measures.” Please also read “Risk Factors-Our estimated reserves are based on many assumptions that may turn out to be inaccurate. Any significant inaccuracies in these reserve estimates or underlying assumptions may materially affect the quantities and present value of our reserves.”
(4) Because each of the Predecessor Companies was a flow-through entity for state and federal tax purposes, our historical standardized measure for the years 2005 and 2006 does not deduct state or federal taxes. This differs from our pro forma standardized measure, which deducts state and federal taxes.
Acreage and Productive Wells Summary
The following table sets forth our gross and net acres of developed and undeveloped oil and natural gas leases and our gross and net productive oil and natural gas wells as of December 31, 2007:
(1) Undeveloped acreage is lease acreage on which wells have not been drilled or completed to a point that would permit the production of commercial quantities of oil and natural gas regardless of whether such acreage includes proved reserves.
(2) Developed acreage is the number of acres that are allocated or assignable to producing wells or wells capable of production.
(3) In addition, we own royalty interests in approximately 132 natural gas wells in the Appalachian Basin.
Substantially all of the leases summarized in the preceding table will expire at the end of their respective primary terms unless the existing lease is renewed or we have obtained production from the acreage subject to the lease before the end of the primary term, in which event the lease will remain in effect until the cessation of production.
The following table sets forth the gross and net acres of undeveloped land subject to leases summarized in the preceding table that will expire during the periods indicated:
Drilling Results
The following table summarizes drilling activity for the past three years. Gross wells reflect the sum of all wells in which we own an interest. Net wells reflect the sum of our working interests in gross wells. All of our drilling activities are conducted on a contract basis by independent drilling contractors. We own six workover rigs which are used in our Illinois Basin operations. We do not own any drilling equipment.
Title to Properties
We believe that we have satisfactory title to all of our producing properties in accordance with generally accepted industry standards. As is customary in the industry, in the case of undeveloped properties, often minimal investigation of record title is made at the time of lease acquisition. Investigations are made before the consummation of an acquisition of producing properties and before commencement of drilling operations on undeveloped properties. Individual properties may be subject to burdens that we believe do not materially interfere with the use or affect the value of the properties. Burdens on properties may include:
•
customary royalty interests;
•
liens incident to operating agreements and for current taxes;
•
obligations or duties under applicable laws;
•
development obligations under oil and gas leases; or
•
net profit interests.
ITEM 3.