ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
The table below summarizes certain data for our core operating areas at December 31, 2012:
Segment reporting is not applicable to our exploration and production operations, as we have a single company-wide management team that administers all properties as a whole rather than by discrete operating segments. We track only basic operational data by area. We do not maintain complete separate financial statement information by area. We measure financial performance as a single enterprise and not on an area-by-area basis.
Appalachian Basin
As of December 31, 2012, we owned an interest in approximately 513 producing natural gas wells in the Appalachian Basin, located predominantly in Pennsylvania and Ohio. In addition to our producing wells in the basin, we own 99.0 gross PUD drilling locations with total reserves of 359.9 Bcfe, and one location with proved developed non-producing reserves totaling 3.4 Bcfe. At December 31, 2012, we had approximately 177,200 gross (103,100 net) acres in the Appalachian Basin under lease, of which 110,200 gross (70,700 net) acres were undeveloped. Of our total acreage holdings in the Appalachian Basin, we believe that approximately 69,400 gross (48,400 net) acres are prospective for Marcellus, Utica and Upper Devonian production.
Reserves at December 31, 2012 increased 246.0 Bcfe, or 77.6%, from 2011 due primarily to our successful drilling and exploration activities in addition to estimated proved reserves related to future ethane sales, which we did not have prior to 2012. During 2012, we entered into certain processing and transportation agreements that will allow us in the future to extract ethane from our produced natural gas and sell it as a separate product. Annual production increased 101.2% over 2011.
Capital expenditures in 2012 for drilling and facility development totaled $147.1 million, which funded the drilling of 30.0 gross (20.6 net) wells. During the year, we placed into service 24.0 gross (15.7 gross) wells and had an inventory of 29.0 gross (18.8 net) wells awaiting completion or a pipeline connection. Our plans for 2013 have allocated approximately $200.0 million in capital expenditures to our Marcellus, Utica and Burkett Shale project areas.
Marcellus Shale
As of December 31, 2012, we had interests in approximately 128,000 gross (70,500 net) Marcellus Shale prospective acres in areas of Pennsylvania, and we continue to expand our position by strategically filling in key pieces of acreage to complete drilling units.
On September 30, 2010, we entered into a joint venture transaction with Summit Discovery Resources II, LLC and Sumitomo Corporation, whom we collectively refer to herein as “Sumitomo”. In Butler, Beaver and Lawrence counties, Pennsylvania we sold a 15% non-operated interest in approximately 41,000 net acres for approximately $30.6 million in cash at closing and $30.6 million in the form of a drilling carry of 80% of our drilling and completion costs in the area. Pursuant to the Participation and Exploration Agreement (the “Sumitomo PEA”), Sumitomo agreed to pay all costs to lease approximately 9,000 acres in the Butler County Area of Mutual Interest (“AMI”) (the “Phase I Leasing”), and was obligated to pay to us a lease management fee of $1,000 per net acre during the Phase I Leasing. Under the Sumitomo PEA, upon the conclusion of Phase I Leasing, we were required to cross assign interests in the leases with Sumitomo to provide uniformity of interest in each lease in the Butler County AMI. The Phase I Leasing Project was completed in 2011, with the final ownership percentages in the Butler County AMI being approximately 70% to us and 30% to Sumitomo. In addition to the sale of undeveloped acreage, we also sold to Sumitomo 30% of our then-held interests in 20 Marcellus Shale wells within the Butler County AMI and 30% of our interest in Keystone Midstream Services, LLC. As discussed below, we sold our interest in Keystone Midstream Services, LLC in May 2012.
In our Marcellus Shale joint venture project area with WPX Energy San Juan, LLC and Williams Production Appalachia, LLC (collectively, “WPX”) (entered into in 2009), in Westmoreland and Clearfield Counties, Pennsylvania, we sold to Sumitomo 20% of our interests in 21,000 net acres for approximately $19.0 million in cash at closing and $19.0 million in the form of a drilling carry of 80% of our drilling and completion costs in the project area. In addition, we sold 20% of our interests in 19 Marcellus Shale wells located in the WPX joint venture areas and 20% of our interest in RW Gathering, LLC, a midstream joint venture with WPX. The resulting working interest ownership is 50% WPX, 40% Rex Energy and 10% Sumitomo.
In addition to the areas above, we sold to Sumitomo 50% of our interests in approximately 4,500 net acres in Fayette and Centre Counties, Pennsylvania for $9.2 million in cash at closing and $9.2 million in the form of a drilling carry of 80% of our drilling and completion costs. Pursuant to the Sumitomo PEA, the drilling carry for these areas was able to be applied, at our discretion, to drilling and completion costs attributable to either the Butler County or WPX Project Areas.
At closing, we received approximately $99.5 million in cash, which included a reimbursement for leasing expenses incurred subsequent to the effective date of September 1, 2010, in the amount of $7.6 million. Additionally, the cash payment included a reimbursement for drilling related expenses incurred subsequent to the effective date in the amount of approximately $7.5 million, which was applied against the drilling carry. Sumitomo met its drilling carry obligation during the first quarter of 2011.
Utica Shale
During 2012, we placed two Utica Shale wells into sales, one in Butler County, Pennsylvania and one in our Warrior North Prospect in Carroll County, Ohio. As of December 31, 2012, we had recorded approximately 8.0 Bcfe of estimated proved reserves related to our Utica Shale development, which was comprised of 53.3% liquids and 46.7% natural gas. Specific to our acreage holdings in Ohio, our estimated proved reserves are comprised of 62.2% liquids and 37.8% natural gas.
As of December 31, 2012, we had under lease approximately 112,700 gross (80,200 net) acres prospective for the Utica Shale in Ohio and Pennsylvania. In Ohio, our holdings comprise approximately 22,800 gross (20,000 net) acres which we believe to be prospective for liquids-rich production. In Pennsylvania, we estimate that much of our acreage in Butler County is prospective for dry gas Utica Shale production as well as acreage in some other non-core areas of the state. As of December 31, 2012, we estimate Utica Shale acreage holdings in Pennsylvania of approximately 89,900 gross (60,100 net) acres.
Upper Devonian
During 2012, we placed our first Burkett Shale well into sales and booked estimated proved reserves of approximately 7.7 Bcfe, comprising 43.9% liquids and 56.1% natural gas. The Burkett Shale is one of the shales that lies within the Upper Devonian formation. We estimate that much of our acreage in Butler County, Pennsylvania is prospective for wet gas Burkett Shale production. As of December 31, 2012, we estimate Upper Devonian acreage holdings of approximately 69,400 gross (48,400 net).
Illinois Basin
In the Illinois Basin, we own an interest in 1,877 wells, which includes 534 disposal and injection wells. We have approximately 64,600 (37,400 net) acres owned and under lease.
Total estimated proved reserves in the Illinois Basin increased approximately 5.8 Bcfe, or 11.9%, to approximately 54.9 Bcfe at December 31, 2012 when compared to year-end 2011, which was primarily due to the addition of 4.5 Bcfe of estimated proved developed non-producing reserves from our ASP project in the Delta Unit as a result of the success of our pilot operations in the area. Annual production increased 3.7% from 2011. Capital expenditures in 2012 for drilling, facility improvements and acreage acquisitions in the region were approximately $24.3 million, which funded the drilling of 13.0 gross (10.3 net) wells. These expenditures also covered work performed in the basin designed to optimize our secondary waterflood operations whereby we stabilized declining production. Capital expenditures for drilling and facilities development for the Lawrence Field ASP Flood Project totaled approximately $12.8 million.
Lawrence Field ASP Flood Project
We currently own and operate 21.2 square miles (approximately 13,500 net acres) of the Lawrence Field. The Cypress (Mississippian) and the Bridgeport (Pennsylvanian) sandstones are the major producing horizons in the field. To date, approximately 40% of the estimated one billion barrels of the original oil in place has been produced.
We are continuing the implementation of an ASP flood project in the Cypress and Bridgeport Sandstone reservoirs of our Lawrence Field acreage. The Lawrence Field ASP Flood Project is considered an EOR project, which refers to recovery of oil that is not producible by primary or secondary recovery methods.
In the 1960s, 1970s and 1980s, a number of EOR projects using surfactant polymer floods were implemented in several fields in the Illinois Basin by Marathon, Texaco and Exxon in an attempt to recover a portion of the large percentage of the original oil in place that was being bypassed by the secondary recovery waterflood. These test projects reportedly were able to recover incremental oil reserves of 15% to 30% of the original oil in place. While we believe the results of these projects are pertinent, there can be no assurance that our Lawrence Field ASP Flood Project, which uses technology that was not developed at the time of the prior EOR projects, will achieve similar results. More modern ASP technology, which uses mechanisms to mobilize bypassed residual oil similar to these previous surfactant polymer floods but at significantly lower costs, has been applied by other companies in several fields around the world resulting in significant incremental recoveries of the original oil in place. Chemicals used in the Lawrence Field ASP Flood Project include alkali, surfactants and polymer. The alkali and surfactant combination acts like a soap and washes residual oil from the reservoir mainly by reducing interfacial tension between the oil and the water. The polymer is added to improve sweep displacement efficiency by pushing the “washed” oil through the rock pores of the reservoir.
The goal of our Lawrence Field ASP Flood Project is to duplicate the oil recovery performance of the surfactant polymer floods conducted in the field in the 1980s, but at a significantly lower cost. We expect this cost reduction to be accomplished by utilizing newer technologies to optimize the synergistic performance of the three chemicals used, and by using alkali in the formula, which would allow us to use a significantly lower concentration of the more costly surfactant.
In 2000, PennTex Resources Illinois, Inc., one of our predecessor companies, then known as Plains Illinois, Inc., and the U.S. Department of Energy conducted a study on the potential of an ASP project in the Lawrence Field, with consulting services provided by an independent engineering firm specializing in the design and implementation of chemical oil recovery systems. Based on the modeling of the reservoir characteristics and laboratory tests with cores taken in the Lawrence Field, the evaluation found oil recovery in the field could be increased significantly by installing an ASP flood. However, there can be no assurance that our Lawrence Field ASP Flood Project will achieve similar results to those conducted in the study.
During 2008 and 2009, we completed two four acre pilot tests, one each in the Bridgeport and Cypress sandstones. Both of the pilots demonstrated a response to the chemical injection, as indicated by an increase in both oil production and the oil cut ratio. Each pilot area had individual wells whose oil cut exceeded 10% after the initial response; whereas the oil cuts for both pilots at the time ASP injection was initiated were less than 1%. During 2010, we commenced chemical injection into our 15-acre Middagh ASP pilot unit and received initial and peak response during 2011, with oil cuts increasing from 1% to approximately 12%, and several wells peaking at an oil cut of 17%. Production has since begun its gradual decline; however the successful response from this project resulted in the assignment of 874.0 MBbls of estimated proved reserves as of December 31, 2012. Approximately 758.3 MBls of estimated proved reserves are attributable to our Delta Unit. We are continuing to move forward with ASP expansion with the 58-acre Perkins-Smith project area. ASP injection into the Perkins-Smith occurred in June 2012, with initial production response expected in mid-2013 and peak production expected in the fourth quarter of 2013. In addition to the Perkins-Smith Unit, we have completed the drilling and infrastructure construction phase of our commercial size Delta Unit with ASP injection expected to commence during the fourth quarter of 2013.
We are in the process of identifying the next ASP flood units in the Bridgeport and Cypress sands. Depending on the size of each flood unit, it is anticipated that initial response time from the chemical injection date will be approximately 10 to 12 months and the time to peak response will be approximately 24 to 30 months.
Estimated Proved Reserves
For estimated proved reserves as of December 31, 2012, proved locations were identified, assessed and justified using the evaluation methods of performance analysis, volumetric analysis and analogy. In addition, reliable technologies were used to support a select number of undeveloped locations in the Marcellus Shale Region. Within the Marcellus Shale Region, we used both public and proprietary geologic data to establish continuity of the formation and its producing properties. This data included performance data, seismic data, micro-seismic analysis, open hole log information and petro-physical analysis of the log data, mud logs, log cross-sections, gas sample analysis, drill cutting samples, measurements of total organic content, thermal maturity and statistical analysis. In our development area, these data demonstrated consistent and continuous reservoir characteristics.
The following table sets forth our estimated proved reserves as defined in Rule 4.10(a) of Regulation S-X and Item 1200 of Regulation S-K:
All of our reserves are located within the continental United States. Reserve estimates are inherently imprecise and remain subject to revisions based on production history, results of additional exploration and development, prices of oil and natural gas and other factors. Please read “Item 1A.-Risk Factors-Our estimated reserves are based on many assumptions that may turn out to be inaccurate. Any significant inaccuracies in these reserve estimates or underlying assumptions may materially affect the quantities and present value of our reserves.” You should also read the notes following the table below and our Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended December 31, 2012 in conjunction with our reserve estimates.
The following table sets forth our estimated proved reserves at the end of each of the past three years:
The estimates of reserves in the table above conform to the guidelines of the SEC. Estimated recoverable proved reserves have been determined without regard to any economic impact that may result from our financial derivative activities. These calculations were prepared using standard geological and engineering methods generally accepted by the petroleum industry. The reserve information shown is estimated. The certainty of any reserve estimate is a function of the quality of available geological, geophysical, engineering and economic data, the precision of the engineering and geological interpretation and judgment. The estimates of reserves, future cash flows and present value are based on various assumptions, and are inherently imprecise. Although we believe these estimates are reasonable, actual future production, cash flows, taxes, development expenditures, operating expenses and quantities of recoverable oil and natural gas reserves may vary substantially from these estimates.
Totals of estimated proved reserves, PV-10 Value and Standardized Measure exclude values from our DJ Basin properties which are classified as Held for Sale on our Consolidated Balance Sheet at December 31, 2011 and 2012.
We converted crude oil and NGLs to Mcf equivalent at a ratio of one barrel to six Mcfe.
PV-10, a non-GAAP measure, represents the present value, discounted at 10% per annum of estimated future cash flows of our estimated proved reserves before income tax and asset retirement obligations. The estimated future cash flows set forth above were determined by using reserve quantities of estimated proved
reserves and the periods in which they are expected to be developed and produced based on prevailing economic conditions. The estimated future production is priced based on the 12-month unweighted arithmetic average of the first-day-of-the-month price for the period January through December 2012, using $90.92 per barrel of oil, $32.91 per barrel of NGLs and $2.941 per Mcf of natural gas, as adjusted by lease for transportation fees and regional price differentials. Management believes that the presentation of the non-GAAP financial measure of PV-10 provides useful information to investors because it is widely used by professional analysts and sophisticated investors in evaluating oil and natural gas companies. For an explanation of why we show PV-10 and a reconciliation of PV-10 to the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flow, please read “Item 6. Selected Historical Financial and Operating Data-Non-GAAP Financial Measures.” Please also read “Item 1A. Risk Factors-Our estimated reserves are based on many assumptions that may turn out to be inaccurate. Any significant inaccuracies in these reserve estimates or underlying assumptions may materially affect the quantities and present value of our reserves.”
Proved Undeveloped Reserves (PUDs)
As of December 31, 2012, our PUD reserves totaled 0.2 MMBOE of oil, 21.5 MMBOE of NGLs and 230.0 Bcf of natural gas, for a total of 360.1 Bcfe. The majority of our PUDs at year-end 2012 were associated with the Appalachian Basin. All of these projects will have PUDs convert from undeveloped to developed as these projects begin production and/or production facilities are expanded or upgraded. Changes in PUDs that occurred during the year were due to:
•
conversion of approximately 45.6 Bcfe attributable to PUDs into proved developed reserves;
•
173.6 Bcfe in PUDs due to extensions and discoveries, which are primarily related to the extension of proved acreage in areas that are prospective for the Marcellus, Utica and Upper Devonian (Burkett) Shale, through our drilling activities. During 2012, we drilled approximately 10.0 gross (6.5 net) wells that were not considered proved in addition to 17.0 gross (10.5 net) wells that were classified as PUDs as of December 31, 2011.
Costs incurred relating to the development of 17.0 gross (10.5 net) PUD locations to proved developed were approximately $33.7 million in 2012. Estimated future development costs relating to the development of our 100.0 gross (63.9 net) PUDs are projected to be approximately $50.3 million in 2013, $61.3 million in 2014, $95.2 million in 2015, $60.5 million in 2016 and $55.9 million in 2017.
Most PUD drilling locations are scheduled to be drilled prior to the end of 2017, including approximately 14.0% of the total in 2013. Initial production from these PUD locations is expected to begin between 2013 and 2018. Approximately 33.0 gross (20.1 net) PUD locations were booked based on reliable technology. We have approximately two gross (1.1 net) PUD locations that are to be developed more than five years after first booking. These wells are a part of a development program which includes multiple wells from the same pad that has been pushed outside of the five year range due to our current strategy of drilling single well pads to hold acreage. In addition to holding acreage, it is our plan to develop our PUD reserves in a manner consistent with the five-year rule for PUD locations. The wells that are to be developed outside of the five years from first booking are on pad drilling sites that have additional PUD locations which are currently scheduled to be developed within five years of first booking. We intend to develop these PUD locations, regardless of first booking date, in a pad development mode. We believe that this strategy allows for the wells to remain classified as PUD locations. A total of 6.3 Bcfe of estimated proved reserves are attributed to these wells or approximately 1.7% of our total estimated proved undeveloped reserves.
The following table summarizes the changes in our proved undeveloped reserves for the year ended December 31, 2012:
Reserve Estimation
Netherland, Sewell & Associates, Inc. (“NSAI”), an independent petroleum engineering firm, evaluated our reserves on a consolidated basis as of December 31, 2012. At December 31, 2012, these consultants collectively reviewed all of our estimated proved reserves. A copy of the summary reserve report is included as Exhibit 99.1 to this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The technical persons responsible for preparing our estimated proved reserves estimates meet the requirements with regards to qualifications, independence, objectivity and confidentiality set forth in the Standards Pertaining to the Estimating and Auditing of Oil and Gas Reserves Information promulgated by the Society of Petroleum Engineers. Our independent third-party engineers do not own an interest in any of our properties and are not employed by us on a contingent basis.
We maintain an internal staff of petroleum engineers and geoscience professionals who work closely with NSAI to ensure the integrity, accuracy and timeliness of the data used to calculate our estimated proved reserves. Our internal technical team members meet with NSAI periodically throughout the year to discuss the assumptions and methods used in the proved reserve estimation process. We provide historical information to NSAI for our properties such as ownership interest; oil and gas production; well test data; commodity prices and operating and development costs. The preparation of our proved reserve estimates are completed in accordance with our internal control procedures, which include documented process workflows, the verification of input data used by NSAI, as well as management review and approval.
All of our reserve estimates are reviewed and approved by our Director, Reservoir Engineering and our President and Chief Operating Officer. Our Director, Reservoir Engineering holds a Bachelor of Science degree in Petroleum Engineering from the University of Texas at Austin with more than seven years of experience in preparing reserve reports under the guidelines of the SEC with Cano Petroleum and with us. Our President and Chief Operating Officer holds a Bachelor of Science degree in Petroleum Engineering from the University of Wyoming and an M.B.A. from Pepperdine University, with approximately 25 years of experience working for companies such as Cano Petroleum, Pioneer Natural Resources and Union Pacific Resources.
Acreage and Productive Wells Summary
The following table sets forth, for our continuing operations, our gross and net acreage of developed and undeveloped oil and natural gas leases and our gross and net productive oil and natural gas wells as of December 31, 2012:
(1) Undeveloped acreage is lease acreage on which wells have not been drilled or completed to a point that would permit the production of commercial quantities of oil and natural gas, regardless of whether such acreage includes estimated proved reserves.
(2) Developed acreage is the number of acres allocated or assignable to producing wells or wells capable of production.
(3) Total net acreage includes approximately 10,000 gross (10,000 net) acres that are owned by us. These acres are primarily leased to third parties and are not currently deemed as available for development.
Substantially all of the undeveloped leases summarized in the preceding table will expire at the end of their respective primary terms unless the existing lease is renewed, we have commenced the necessary operations required by the terms of the lease, or we have obtained actual production from acreage subject to the lease, in which event, the lease will remain in effect until the cessation of production.
The following table sets forth, for our continuing operations, the gross and net acres of undeveloped land subject to leases summarized in the preceding table that will expire during the periods indicated:
Will not reconcile to total undeveloped acreage due to being subject to drilling commitments and acreage that may be held by production in a legal unit but is still considered undeveloped.
The expiring acreage set forth in the tale above accounts for 64.5% our total net acreage. We are continually engaged in a combination of drilling and development and discussions with mineral lessors for lease extensions, renewals, new drilling and development units and new leases to address the expiration of undeveloped acreage that occurs in the normal course of our business.
Drilling Results
The following table summarizes our drilling activity for continuing operations for the past three years. Gross wells reflect the sum of all wells in which we own an interest. Net wells reflect the sum of our working interests in gross wells. All of our drilling activities are conducted on a contract basis by independent drilling contractors. We own four workover rigs, which are used in our Illinois Basin operations. We do not own any drilling equipment.
Does not include wells drilled for our ASP project, which is a longer lead time project for which results are not expected for several months.
DJ Basin assets are classified as held for sale.
Success ratio is calculated by dividing the total successful wells drilled divided by the total wells drilled.
Title to Properties
We believe that we have satisfactory title to all of our producing properties in accordance with generally accepted industry standards. As is customary in the industry, in the case of undeveloped properties, we often conduct a preliminary investigation of record title and related matters at the time of lease acquisition. We conduct more comprehensive mineral title opinion reviews, topographic evaluations and infrastructure investigations before the consummation of an acquisition of producing properties and before commencement of drilling operations on undeveloped properties. Individual properties may be subject to burdens that we believe do not materially interfere with the use or affect the value of the properties. Burdens on properties may include:
•
customary royalty interests;
•
liens incident to operating agreements and for current taxes;
•
obligations or duties under applicable laws;
•
development obligations under oil and gas leases;
•
net profit interests;
•
overriding royalty interests;
•
non-surface occupancy leases; and
•
lessor consents to placement of wells.
ITEM 3.