ITEM 2.
PROPERTIES
The table below summarizes certain data for our core operating areas at December 31, 2014:
Segment reporting is not applicable to our exploration and production operations, as we have a single company-wide management team that administers all properties as a whole rather than by discrete operating segments. We track only basic operational data by area. We do not maintain complete separate financial statement information by area. We measure financial performance as a single enterprise and not on an area-by-area basis.
Appalachian Basin
As of December 31, 2014, we owned an interest in approximately 610 producing natural gas wells in the Appalachian Basin, located predominantly in Pennsylvania and Ohio. In addition to our producing wells in the basin, we own 177.0 gross PUD drilling locations with total reserves of 745.6 Bcfe, and 19.0 gross locations with proved developed non-producing reserves totaling 54.1 Bcfe. At December 31, 2014, we had approximately 407,200 gross (339,500 net) acres in the Appalachian Basin under lease, of which 284,100 gross (267,900 net) acres were undeveloped. Of our total acreage holdings in the Appalachian Basin, we believe that approximately 295,400 gross (268,700 net) acres are prospective for three producing horizons, including the Marcellus, Utica and Burkett. Reserves at December 31, 2014 increased 492.7 Bcfe, or 61.5%, from 2013 due primarily to our successful drilling and exploration activities.
Capital expenditures in 2014 for drilling and facility development totaled $349.0 million, which funded the drilling of 51.0 gross (37.6 net) wells. During the year, we placed into service 52.0 gross (38.1 net) wells and had an inventory of 22.0 gross (15.8 net) wells resting or awaiting completion. Our plans for 2015 have allocated approximately $198.0 million in capital expenditures to our Marcellus, Utica and Burkett Shale project areas.
Marcellus Shale
As of December 31, 2014, we had interests in approximately 342,100 gross (285,800 net) Marcellus Shale prospective acres in areas of Pennsylvania, and we continue to expand our position by strategically filling in key pieces of acreage to complete drilling units. Our total acreage holdings include approximately 294,900 gross (268,200 net) acres that we believe to be prospective for liquid-rich Marcellus production. During 2014, we drilled, or participated in the drilling of 34.0 gross (23.5 net) Marcellus Shale wells and placed into service 39.0 gross (27.9 net) Marcellus Shale wells. Our estimated proved reserves related to the Marcellus Shale as of December 31, 2014, totaled approximately 1.1 Tcfe, including 162.0 PUD locations with estimated proved reserves of 679.7 Bcfe and seven proved non-producing locations with estimated proved reserves of 21.2 Bcfe.
We are a party to two joint ventures in Pennsylvania, our primary source for Marcellus production. The first joint venture, for which we serve as the operator, in our Butler County, Pennsylvania operating area is with Summit Discovery Resources II, LLC and Sumitomo Corporation (collectively “Sumitomo”). This joint venture covers an area of mutual interest in Butler, Beaver and Lawrence Counties, Pennsylvania. Our working interest in the area of mutual interest is approximately 70.0%. The second joint venture in our Westmoreland and Clearfield Counties, Pennsylvania project areas is with WPX Energy San Juan, LLC and Williams Production Appalachia, LLC (collectively “WPX”), with WPX serving as the operator. Our working interest in this area of mutual interest is approximately 40.0%.
Utica Shale
As of December 31, 2014, we had under lease approximately 352,900 gross (315,000 net) acres that we believe are prospective for the Utica Shale in Ohio and Pennsylvania. In Ohio, our holdings comprise approximately 29,400 gross (26,900 net) acres which we believe to be prospective for liquids-rich production. In Pennsylvania, we estimate that much of our acreage in Butler County is prospective for dry gas Utica Shale production as well as acreage in some other non-core areas of the state. As of December 31, 2014, we estimate Utica Shale acreage holdings in Pennsylvania of approximately 323,500 gross (288,100 net) acres. During 2014, we drilled 12.0 gross (10.6 net) Utica Shale wells and placed into service 12.0 gross (11.9 net) Utica Shale wells. Our estimated proved reserves related to the Utica Shale as of December 31, 2014, totaled approximately 140.6 Bcfe, including nine PUD locations with estimated proved reserves of 37.8 Bcfe and eight proved non-producing locations with estimated proved reserves of 27.5 Bcfe.
We are a party to one joint venture in Ohio related to our Utica Shale development. This joint venture, for which we serve as the operator, is with MFC Drilling, Inc. and covers an area of mutual interest in Belmont, Guernsey and Noble Counties, Ohio. Our average working interest in these areas is approximately 62.5%.
Burkett Shale
As of December 31, 2014, we had under lease approximately 295,400 gross (268,700 Net) acres prospective for the liquids-rich Upper Burkett Shale in Pennsylvania. During 2014, we drilled five gross (3.5 net) Burkett Shale wells and placed into service one gross (0.7 net) well. Our estimated proved reserves related to the Burkett Shale as of December 31, 2014 totaled approximately 59.3 Bcfe, including six PUD locations with estimated proved reserves of 28.1 Bcfe and four proved non-producing locations with estimated proved reserves of 5.4 Bcfe.
Illinois Basin
In the Illinois Basin, we own an interest in 1,292 oil wells. We have approximately 101,200 (80,800 net) acres owned and under lease.
Total estimated proved reserves in the Illinois Basin decreased approximately 5.7 Bcfe, or 11.9%, to approximately 42.4 Bcfe at December 31, 2014 when compared to year-end 2013, which was primarily due to downward revisions on certain conventional oil properties in the Basin as a result of pricing, well performance and production. Annual production increased 4.1% from 2013. Capital expenditures in 2014 for drilling and facility improvements in the region were approximately $41.6 million, which funded the drilling of 18.0 gross (12.0 net) wells, the recompletion of 23.0 gross (23.0 net) wells and the placement in to service of 37.0 gross (33.0 net) wells. These expenditures also covered work performed in the basin designed to optimize our secondary waterflood operations whereby we stabilized declining production.
We have a 2015 capital budget in the Illinois Basin of approximately $20.0 million which contemplates a small scale recompletion program and limited new drilling and development. Approximately $13.0 million of the 2015 capital budget is dedicated toward maintenance capital and health, safety and environment initiatives.
Estimated Proved Reserves
For estimated proved reserves as of December 31, 2014, proved locations were identified, assessed and justified using the evaluation methods of performance analysis, volumetric analysis and analogy. In addition, reliable technologies were used to support a select number of undeveloped locations in the Marcellus and Utica Shale Regions. Within the Marcellus and Utica Shale Regions, we used both public and proprietary geologic data to establish continuity of the formation and its producing properties. This data included performance data, seismic data, micro-seismic analysis, open hole log information and petro-physical analysis of the log data, mud logs, log cross-sections, gas sample analysis, drill cutting samples, measurements of total organic content, thermal maturity and statistical analysis. In our development area, these data demonstrated consistent and continuous reservoir characteristics.
The following table sets forth our estimated proved reserves as defined in Rule 4.10(a) of Regulation S-X and Item 1200 of Regulation S-K:
All of our reserves are located within the continental United States. Reserve estimates are inherently imprecise and remain subject to revisions based on production history, results of additional exploration and development, prices of oil and natural gas and other factors. Please read “Item 1A.-Risk Factors-Our estimated reserves are based on many assumptions that may turn out to be inaccurate. Any significant inaccuracies in these reserve estimates or underlying assumptions may materially affect the quantities and present value of our reserves.” You should also read the notes following the table below and our Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended December 31, 2014 in conjunction with our reserve estimates.
The following table sets forth our estimated proved reserves at the end of each of the past three years:
The estimates of reserves in the table above conform to the guidelines of the SEC. Estimated recoverable proved reserves have been determined without regard to any economic impact that may result from our financial derivative activities. These calculations were prepared using standard geological and engineering methods generally accepted by the petroleum industry. The reserve information shown is estimated. The certainty of any reserve estimate is a function of the quality of available geological, geophysical, engineering and economic data, the precision of the engineering and geological interpretation and judgment. The estimates of reserves, future cash flows and present value are based on various assumptions, and are inherently imprecise. Although we believe these estimates are reasonable, actual future production, cash flows, taxes, development expenditures, operating expenses and quantities of recoverable oil and natural gas reserves may vary substantially from these estimates.
Totals of estimated proved reserves, PV-10 Value and Standardized Measure exclude values from our DJ Basin properties which are classified as Held for Sale on our Consolidated Balance Sheet at December 31, 2012.
We converted crude oil and NGLs to Mcf equivalent at a ratio of one barrel to six Mcfe.
PV-10, a non-GAAP measure, represents the present value, discounted at 10% per annum of estimated future cash flows of our estimated proved reserves before income tax and asset retirement obligations. The estimated future cash flows set forth above were determined by using reserve quantities of estimated proved reserves and the periods in which they are expected to be developed and produced based on prevailing economic conditions. The estimated future production is priced based on the 12-month unweighted arithmetic average of the first-day-of-the-month price for the period January through December 2014 of $91.48 per barrel of oil and $4.35 per Mcfe of natural gas. These prices are adjusted for transportation fees, quality and regional price differentials resulting in $88.02 per barrel of oil, $28.30 per barrel of NGLs and $3.455 per Mcf of natural gas. Management believes that the presentation of the non-GAAP financial measure of PV-10 provides useful information to investors because it is widely used by professional analysts and sophisticated investors in evaluating oil and natural gas companies. For an explanation of why we show PV-10 and a reconciliation of PV-10 to the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flow, please read “Item 6. Selected Historical Financial and Operating Data - Non-GAAP Financial Measures.” Please also read “Item 1A. Risk Factors - Our estimated reserves are based on many assumptions that may turn out to be inaccurate. Any significant inaccuracies in these reserve estimates or underlying assumptions may materially affect the quantities and present value of our reserves.”
Proved Undeveloped Reserves (PUDs)
As of December 31, 2014, our PUD reserves totaled 2.1 Mmbbl of oil, 44.0 Mmbbl of NGLs and 473.5 Bcf of natural gas, for a total of 750.1 Bcfe. The majority of our PUDs at year-end 2014 were associated with the Appalachian Basin. All of these projects are expected to have PUDs convert from undeveloped to developed as these projects begin production and/or production facilities are expanded or upgraded. Changes in PUDs that occurred during the year were due to:
●
conversion of approximately 75.4 Bcfe attributable to PUDs into proved developed reserves;
●
negative revisions of 37.2 Bcfe primarily related to a downward revision in the estimated recoverability of our future ethane production in Ohio, which is due primarily to the enhanced economics of blending ethane with our gas stream;
●
acquisitions of approximately 4.5 Bcfe related to our Shell asset acquisition in September 2014; and
●
364.9 Bcfe in PUDs due to extensions and discoveries, which are primarily related to the extension of proved acreage in areas that are believed to be prospective for the Marcellus, Utica and Burkett Shale, through our drilling activities. During 2014, we drilled 45.0 gross (33.4 net) wells that were not considered proved in addition to 24.0 gross (16.2 net) wells that were classified as PUDs as of December 31, 2013.
Costs incurred relating to the development of 24.0 gross (16.2 net) PUD locations converted to proved developed were approximately $73.7 million in 2014. Estimated future development costs relating to the development of our 197.0 gross (129.0 net) PUDs are projected to be approximately $69.3 million in 2015, $183.8 million in 2016, $172.3 million in 2017, $154.0 million in 2018, $100.2 million in 2019 and $0.7 million in 2020.
All of our PUD drilling locations are scheduled to be drilled within five years of their initial booking, including approximately 10.2% of the total in 2015. Initial production from these PUD locations is expected to begin between 2015 and 2020. We do not have PUD locations associated with reserves that have been booked for longer than five years. Approximately 62.0 gross (42.0 net) PUD locations were booked based on reliable technology. Reliable technologies include the use of both public and proprietary geologic data to establish continuity of the formation and its producing properties. This data includes performance data, seismic data, micro-seismic analysis, open hole log information and petro-physical analysis of the log data, mud logs, log cross-sections, gas sample analysis, drill cutting samples, measurements of total organic content, thermal maturity and statistical analysis. In cases where a producing lateral well has been drilled but not yet fracture stimulated, we use observations from drill cuttings and logs as reliable technology to confirm the resources are likely in place for extraction and to support scheduling the well for fracture stimulation in the near future.
Our estimated proved undeveloped reserves at December 31, 2014, include 51.0 gross (33.7 net) locations and 224.7 Bcfe of estimated proved reserves that were more than one offset away from a producing well. During 2014, we drilled 47.0 gross (35.5 net) wells that were more than one offset away from a producing well. Our estimated proved undeveloped reserves included five gross (five net) locations that generated positive future net revenue but negative present value discounted at 10%. Net reserve volumes associated with these locations were 2.1 Bcfe (approximately 0.2% of total estimated proved reserves and approximately 0.3% of estimated proved undeveloped reserves). Given our planned operating budget, strategy to hold the acreage by production, and expectations of future commodity prices, we plan to develop these locations over the next five years and therefore have included these locations in our PUD reserves.
The following table summarizes the changes in our proved undeveloped reserves for the year ended December 31, 2014:
Reserve Estimation
The reserves estimates shown herein have been independently evaluated by Netherland, Sewell & Associates, Inc. (NSAI), a worldwide leader of petroleum property analysis for industry and financial organizations and government agencies. NSAI was founded in 1961 and performs consulting petroleum engineering services under Texas Board of Professional Engineers Registration No.. Within NSAI, the technical persons primarily responsible for preparing the estimates set forth in the NSAI reserves report incorporated herein are Mr. Richard B. Talley, Jr. and Mr. David E. Nice. Mr. Talley has been practicing consulting petroleum engineering at NSAI since 2004. Mr. Talley is a Licensed Professional Engineer in the State of Texas (No. 102425) and has over 16 years of practical experience in petroleum engineering, with over 10 years experience in the estimation and evaluation of reserves. He graduated from the University of Oklahoma in 1998 with a Bachelor of Science Degree in Mechanical Engineering and from Tulane University in 2001 with a Master of Business Administration Degree. Mr. Nice has been practicing consulting petroleum geology at NSAI since 1998. Mr. Nice is a Licensed Professional Geoscientist in the State of Texas, Geology (No. 346) and has over 29 years of practical experience in petroleum geosciences, with over 16 years experience in the estimation and evaluation of reserves. He graduated from the University of Wyoming in 1982 with a Bachelor of Science Degree in Geology and in 1985 with a Master of Science Degree in Geology. Both technical principals meet or exceed the education, training, and experience requirements set forth in the Standards Pertaining to the Estimating and Auditing of Oil and Gas Reserves Information promulgated by the Society of Petroleum Engineers; both are proficient in judiciously applying industry standard practices to engineering and geoscience evaluations as well as applying SEC and other industry reserves definitions and guidelines.
We maintain an internal staff of petroleum engineers and geoscience professionals who work closely with NSAI to ensure the integrity, accuracy and timeliness of the data used to calculate our estimated proved reserves. Our internal technical team members meet with NSAI periodically throughout the year to discuss the assumptions and methods used in the proved reserve estimation process. We provide historical information to NSAI for our properties such as ownership interest; oil and gas production; well test data; commodity prices and operating and development costs. The preparation of our proved reserve estimates are completed in accordance with our internal control procedures, which include documented process workflows, the verification of input data used by NSAI, as well as management review and approval.
All of our reserve estimates are reviewed and approved by our Vice President, Reservoir Engineering and our President and Chief Operating Officer. Our Vice President, Reservoir Engineering holds a Bachelor of Science degree in Petroleum Engineering from UIS University, in Colombia, as well as a Masters of Petroleum Engineering from the University of Oklahoma and an M.B.A. from Rice University. He has more than 15 years of experience in reservoir engineering and determining estimated proved reserves under SEC guidelines. Our President and Chief Operating Officer holds a Bachelor of Science degree in Petroleum Engineering from the University of Wyoming and an M.B.A. from Pepperdine University, with approximately 25 years of experience working for companies such as Cano Petroleum, Pioneer Natural Resources and Union Pacific Resources.
Acreage and Productive Wells Summary
The following table sets forth, for our continuing operations, our gross and net acreage of developed and undeveloped oil and natural gas leases and our gross and net productive oil and natural gas wells as of December 31, 2014:
(1)
Undeveloped acreage is lease acreage on which wells have not been drilled or completed to a point that would permit the production of commercial quantities of oil and natural gas, regardless of whether such acreage includes estimated proved reserves.
(2)
Developed acreage is the number of acres allocated or assignable to producing wells or wells capable of production.
Substantially all of the undeveloped leases summarized in the preceding table will expire at the end of their respective primary terms unless the existing lease is renewed, we have commenced the necessary operations required by the terms of the lease, or we have obtained actual production from acreage subject to the lease, in which event, the lease will remain in effect until the cessation of production.
The following table sets forth, for our continuing operations, the gross and net acres of undeveloped land subject to leases summarized in the preceding table that will expire during the periods indicated:
Will not reconcile to total undeveloped acreage due to acreage being subject to drilling commitments and acreage that may be held by production in a legal unit but is still considered undeveloped.
The expiring acreage set forth in the table above accounts for 72.5% our total net acreage. As of December 31, 2014, we have not assigned any estimated proved reserves to locations which are currently schedule to be drilled after lease expiration. We are continually engaged in a combination of drilling and development and discussions with mineral lessors for lease extensions, renewals, new drilling and development units and new leases to address the expiration of undeveloped acreage that occurs in the normal course of our business.
Drilling Results
The following table summarizes our drilling activity for continuing operations for the past three years. Gross wells reflect the sum of all wells in which we own an interest. Net wells reflect the sum of our working interests in gross wells. All of our drilling activities are conducted on a contract basis by independent drilling contractors. We own several workover rigs, which are used in our Illinois Basin operations. We do not own any drilling equipment.
Does not include wells drilled for our ASP flood project, which is a longer lead time project for which results are not expected for several months.
Success ratio is calculated by dividing the total successful wells drilled divided by the total wells drilled.
Title to Properties
We believe that we have satisfactory title to all of our producing properties in accordance with generally accepted industry standards. As is customary in the industry, in the case of undeveloped properties, we often conduct a preliminary investigation of record title and related matters at the time of lease acquisition. We conduct more comprehensive mineral title opinion reviews, detailed topographic evaluations and infrastructure investigations before the consummation of an acquisition of producing properties and before commencement of drilling operations on undeveloped properties. Individual properties may be subject to burdens that we believe do not materially interfere with the use or affect the value of the properties. Burdens on properties may include:
●
customary royalty interests;
●
liens incident to operating agreements and for current taxes;
●
obligations or duties under applicable laws;
●
development obligations under oil and gas leases;
●
net profit interests;
●
overriding royalty interests;
●
non-surface occupancy leases; and
●
lessor consents to placement of wells.
ITEM 3.