ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
The table below summarizes certain data for our core operating areas for the year ended December 31, 2009:
Segment reporting is not applicable to us, as we have a single company-wide management team that administers all properties as a whole rather than by discrete operating segments. We track only basic operational data by area. We do not maintain complete separate financial statement information by area. We measure financial performance as a single enterprise and not on an area-by-area basis.
Illinois Basin
In the Illinois Basin, we own an interest in 1,988 wells. We have approximately 61,000 gross (34,000 net) acres under lease. During the third quarter of 2008, we sold approximately 79,000 net undeveloped acres in Indiana and certain non-producing wells, which was a part of our New Albany Shale exploration projects, for approximately $8.4 million in proceeds.
Total proved reserves in the Illinois Basin increased approximately 26.3 Bcfe, or 74%, to approximately 61.7 Bcfe at December 31, 2009 when compared to year-end 2008, which was primarily a result of the increase in oil prices throughout the year. Annual production decreased 7% from 2008. Capital expenditures in 2009 for developmental drilling and facility improvements in the region were approximately $8.0 million, which funded the drilling of 23 gross (23 net) development wells, of which six were awaiting completion as of December 31, 2009. One exploratory well was also drilled in the region that was determined to be a dry hole. Capital expenditures for drilling and facilities development for the Lawrence Field ASP Flood Project in Lawrence County, Illinois totaled approximately $3.4 million.
At December 31, 2009, the Illinois Basin had a development inventory of 157 proven drilling locations and 131 proven recompletions. Development projects include recompletions, infill drilling and continued refinement of secondary recovery operations. These activities also include increasing reserves and production through aggressive cost control, upgrading lifting equipment, improving gathering systems and surface facilities and performing re-stimulations and re-fracturing operations.
Lawrence Field ASP Flood Project
We are implementing an alkali-surfactant-polymer (“ASP”) flood project in the Cypress and Bridgeport Sandstone reservoirs of our Lawrence Field acreage. The Lawrence Field ASP Flood Project is one of our largest
projects. The Lawrence Field ASP Flood Project is considered an Enhanced Oil Recovery (“EOR”) project, which refers to recovery of oil that is not producible by primary or secondary recovery methods.
The Lawrence Field in Lawrence County, Illinois, is believed to have produced more than 400 million barrels of oil from 23 separate horizons since its discovery in 1906. We currently own and operate 21.2 square miles (approximately 13,500 net acres) of the Lawrence Field, and our properties account for approximately 83% of the current total gross production from the field. The Cypress (Mississippian) and the Bridgeport (Pennsylvanian) sandstones are the major producing horizons in the field. To date, approximately 40% of the estimated one billion barrels of original oil in place has been produced.
In the 1960s, 1970s and 1980s, a number of EOR projects using surfactant polymer floods were implemented in several fields in the Illinois Basin by Marathon Oil Corp. (“Marathon”), Texaco and Exxon in an attempt to recover a portion of the large percentage of the original oil in place that was being bypassed by the secondary recovery waterflood. These test projects reportedly were able to recover incremental oil reserves of 15% to 30% of the original oil in place.
In 1982, Marathon began a surfactant polymer flood project in the Lawrence Field on the Robins Lease, a 25-acre lease in the Lawrence Field within one mile of the site of one of our pilot test locations. This project was initiated at a time when the price per barrel of oil was below $15 and the technology of combining alkali and surfactant with polymer, which significantly reduces costs of recovery compared with the previous surfactant polymer floods, had not yet been fully developed. Despite the high costs of the surfactant polymer flooding employed by Marathon and the low oil prices, the project produced an estimated 450,000 incremental barrels, or an estimated 21% the of original oil in place. While we believe the results of this project are pertinent, there can be no assurance that our Lawrence Field ASP Flood Project, which uses technology that was not developed at the time of the Robins Lease flood, will achieve similar results.
ASP technology, which uses mechanisms to mobilize bypassed residual oil similar to these previous surfactant polymer floods but at significantly lower costs, has been applied by other companies in several fields around the world resulting in significant incremental recoveries of the original oil in place. Chemicals used in the Lawrence Field ASP Flood Project are an alkali (NaOH or Na2CO3), a surfactant and a polymer. The alkali (1% to 2%) and surfactant (0.1% to 0.4%) combination washes residual oil from the reservoir mainly by reducing interfacial tension between the oil and the water. The polymer (800 to 1400 parts per million) is added to improve sweep displacement efficiency. ASP technology achieves its incremental recovery by reducing capillary forces that trap oil, improving aerial and vertical sweep efficiency and reducing mobility ratio.
Our Lawrence Field ASP Flood Project will use ASP technology to flood our Lawrence Field wells. The goal of our Lawrence Field ASP Flood Project is to duplicate the oil recovery performance of the surfactant polymer floods conducted in the field in the 1980s, but at a significantly lower cost. We expect this cost reduction to be accomplished by utilizing newer technologies to optimize the synergistic performance of the three chemicals used, and by using alkali in the formula, which would allow us to use a significantly lower concentration of the more costly surfactant.
In 2000, PennTex Illinois, then known as Plains Illinois, Inc., and the U.S. Department of Energy conducted a study on the potential of an ASP project in the Lawrence Field, with consulting services provided by an independent engineering firm specializing in the design and implementation of chemical oil recovery systems. Based on the modeling of the reservoir characteristics and laboratory tests with cores taken in the Lawrence Field, the evaluation found oil recovery in the field could be increased significantly by installing an ASP flood. Similar EOR techniques have been successfully demonstrated in fields around the world to recover an additional 15% to 30% of the original oil in place. However, there can be no assurance that our Lawrence Field ASP Flood Project will achieve similar results.
In 2006, we engaged a third-party consultant to review and update the evaluation on the application of the ASP process to the Lawrence Field. This evaluation, based on laboratory results, recommended two pilot areas to
evaluate the ASP process in the Bridgeport and Cypress sandstones. The ASP pilot test locations are positioned in areas that we believe are representative of variabilities that can be expected in these reservoirs. Based on our consultant’s recommendations, we drilled and cored the central producing well in each of the two proposed pilot test areas. These cores were sent to our consultant for ASP chemical system design. During 2007, our consultant completed its linear and radial core flood analysis on the Cypress and Bridgeport sandstones, which in the laboratory resulted in an oil recovery rate as high as 21% of the estimated original oil-in-place in the Cypress sandstone, and 24% of the original oil-in-place in the Bridgeport sandstone. These results were in line with our initial projections.
During 2008 and 2009, we completed two four acre pilot tests, one each in the Bridgeport and Cypress sandstones. Both of the pilots demonstrated a response to the chemical injection, as indicated by an increase in both oil production and the oil cut ratio. Each pilot area had individual wells whose oil cut exceeded 10% after the initial response; whereas the oil cuts for both pilots at the time ASP injection was initiated were less than 1%. Our Lawrence Field ASP Project is not a proved project nor are any of the potential reserves associated with this project considered proved at this time.
We have identified, thus far, 27 potential separate flood units (15 Bridgeport/12 Cypress). We are currently in the process of designing the first operationally sized ASP unit in the Bridgeport sandstone which will cover approximately 32 acres with chemical injection commencing during 2010. It is anticipated that the initial response time from the chemical injection date will be approximately four to eight months and the time to peak response will be approximately 10-12 months.
Appalachian Basin
As of December 31, 2009, we own an interest in approximately 587 producing natural gas wells in the Appalachian Basin, located predominantly in Pennsylvania. In addition to our producing wells in the basin, we own 38 proved undeveloped drilling locations with total reserves of 3.5 Bcfe, and three locations with proved developed non-producing reserves totaling 171 MMcf. At December 31, 2009, we had approximately 111,000 gross (63,000 net) acres in the Appalachian Basin under lease, of which 70,000 gross (47,000 net) acres were undeveloped.
Reserves at December 31, 2009 increased 32.8 Bcfe, or 106%, from 2008 due primarily to additional drilling activities, including Marcellus Shale exploration, which were partially offset by a decrease in natural gas prices. Annual production increased 50% over 2008.
Marcellus Shale
The Marcellus Shale is a black, organic rich shale formation located at depths between 5,000 and 8,500 feet and ranges in thickness from 50 to 220 feet on our acreage in southwestern and central Pennsylvania. As of December 31, 2009, we had interests in approximately 90,000 gross (58,000 net) Marcellus Shale prospective acres in these areas of Pennsylvania and we continue to expand our position. The net acreage amount excludes approximately 22,000 acres which can be earned by Williams pursuant to the Participation and Exploration Agreement described below.
On June 18, 2009, we entered into a Participation and Exploration Agreement (the “PEA”) with Williams Production Company, LLC and Williams Production Appalachia, LLC (collectively, “Williams”) that was effective as of May 5, 2009. Under the terms and conditions of the PEA, Williams may acquire, through a “drill-to-earn” structure, 50% of our working interest in certain oil and gas leases covering approximately 44,000 net acres in Centre, Clearfield and Westmoreland Counties, Pennsylvania (the “Project Area”). The PEA effectively provides that, for Williams to earn its 50% interest in the Project Area, Williams will bear 90% of all costs and expenses incurred in the drilling and completion of all wells jointly drilled in the Project Area until such time as Williams has invested approximately $74.0 million (approximately $33.0 million on behalf of us
and $41.0 million for Williams’ 50% share of the wells). Once Williams has completed its carry obligation and acquired 50% of our working interest in the leases within the Project Area, the parties will share all costs of the joint venture operations with an area of mutual interest (including the Project Area) in accordance with their participating interests, which are expected to be on a 50/50 basis. We believe this agreement will allow us to accelerate our activities in the Marcellus Shale while conserving capital at the same time.
During 2009, we met our goal of drilling and completing at least one horizontal well in each of our main project areas. Capital expenditures in 2009 for drilling and facility development totaled $18.2 million, net of approximately $3.1 million that was reimbursed to us upon the execution of the Participation and Exploration Agreement with Williams, which funded the drilling of seven gross (4 net) exploratory wells, of which six gross (3.5 net) were completed and producing and one gross (0.5 net) were awaiting completion and expected to be productive. Our plans for 2010 have allocated approximately $66.0 million in capital expenditures to our Marcellus Shale project areas.
Proved Reserves
In December 2008, the SEC released its finalized rule for “Modernization of Oil and Gas Reporting.” The new rule requires disclosure of oil and gas proved reserves by significant geographic area, using the arithmetic 12-month average beginning-of-the-month price for the year, as opposed to using year-end prices as was practiced previously. The rule also allows for the use of reliable technologies to estimate proved oil and gas reserves, contingent on demonstrated reliability in conclusions about reserve volumes. Under the new rules, companies are required to report on the independence and qualifications of its reserve preparer or auditor, and file reports when a third-party is relied upon to prepare reserve estimates or conduct a reserve audit. The following table sets forth our estimated proved reserves based on the new SEC rules as defined in Rule 4.10(a) of Regulation S-X and Item 1200 of Regulation S-K:
All of our reserves are located within the continental United States. Reserve estimates are inherently imprecise and remain subject to revisions based on production history, results of additional exploration and development, prices of oil and natural gas and other factors. Please read “Item 1A - Risk Factors-Our estimated reserves are based on many assumptions that may turn out to be inaccurate. Any significant inaccuracies in these reserve estimates or underlying assumptions may materially affect the quantities and present value of our reserves.” You should also read the notes following the table below and our Consolidated and Combined Financial Statements for the year ended December 31, 2009 in conjunction with the following reserve estimates.
The following table sets forth our estimated proved reserves at the end of each of the past three years:
(1) The estimates of reserves in the table above conform to the guidelines of the SEC. Estimated recoverable proved reserves have been determined without regard to any economic impact that may result from our financial derivative activities. These calculations were prepared using standard geological and engineering methods generally accepted by the petroleum industry. The reserve information shown is estimated. The certainty of any reserve estimate is a function of the quality of available geological, geophysical, engineering and economic data, the precision of the engineering and geological interpretation and judgment. The estimates of reserves, future cash flows and present value are based on various assumptions, and are inherently imprecise. Although we believe these estimates are reasonable, actual future production, cash flows, taxes, development expenditures, operating expenses and quantities of recoverable oil and natural gas reserves may vary substantially from these estimates.
(2) Totals of estimated proved reserves, PV-10 Value and Pro Forma Standardized Measure exclude values from our Southwest Region properties which are classified as Held for Sale on our balance sheet at December 31, 2008 and 2007.
(3) We converted crude oil and NGLs to Mcf equivalent at a ratio of one barrel to six Mcfe.
(4) Represents the present value, discounted at 10% per annum (PV-10), of estimated future cash flows before income tax of our estimated proved reserves. The estimated future cash flows set forth above were determined by using reserve quantities of proved reserves and the periods in which they are expected to be developed and produced based on prevailing economic conditions. The estimated future production is priced based on the 12-month unweighted arithmetic average of the first-day-of-the-month price for the period January through December 2009, using $57.65 per bbl and $3.866 per MMBtu and adjusted by lease for transportation fees and regional price differentials. Management believes that the presentation of the non-GAAP financial measure of PV-10 provides useful information to investors because it is widely used by professional analysts and sophisticated investors in evaluating oil and natural gas companies. For an explanation of why we show PV-10 and a reconciliation of PV-10 to the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flow, please read “Item 6. Selected Historical Financial and Operating Data-Non-GAAP Financial Measures.” Please also read “Item 1A. Risk Factors-Our estimated reserves are based on many assumptions that may turn out to be inaccurate. Any significant inaccuracies in these reserve estimates or underlying assumptions may materially affect the quantities and present value of our reserves.”
Recent SEC Rule-Making Activity
In December 2008, the SEC announced that it had approved revisions designed to modernize the oil and gas company reserves reporting requirements. The most significant amendments to the requirements included the following:
•
Commodity Prices: Economic producibility of reserves and discounted cash flows are now based on a 12-month average commodity price unless contractual arrangements designate the price to be used.
•
Disclosure of Unproved Reserves: Probable and possible reserves may be disclosed separately on a voluntary basis.
•
Proved Undeveloped Reserve Guidelines: Reserves may be classified as proved undeveloped if there is a high degree of confidence that the quantities will be recovered and they are scheduled to be drilled within the next five years, unless the specific circumstances justify a longer time.
•
Reserves Estimation Using New Technologies: Reserves may be estimated through the use of reliable technology in addition to flow tests and production history.
•
Reserves Personnel and Estimation Process: Additional disclosure is required regarding the qualifications of the chief technical person who oversees the reserves estimation process. We are also required to provide a general discussion of our internal controls used to assure the objectivity of the reserves estimate.
•
Non-Traditional Resources: The definition of oil and gas producing activities has expanded and focuses on the marketable product rather than the method of extraction.
We adopted the rules effective December 31, 2009, as required by the SEC.
Effect of Adoption.
Application of the new reserve rules resulted in the use of lower prices at December 31, 2009 for both oil and gas than would have resulted under the previous rules. Use of new 12-month average pricing rules at December 31, 2009 resulted in proved reserves of approximately 125.2 Bcfe. Use of the old year-end prices rules would have resulted in proved reserves of approximately 138.2 Bcfe at December 31, 2009. Therefore, the total impact of the new price methodology rules resulted in negative reserves revisions of 13.0 Bcfe.
Proved Undeveloped Reserves (PUDs)
As of December 31, 2009, our proved undeveloped reserves totaled 1.8 MMBOE of crude oil, 1.1 MMBOE of NGLs and 40.0 Bcf of natural gas, for a total of 57.3 Bcfe. Approximately 81.7% of our PUDs at year-end 2009 were associated with the Appalachian Basin. An additional 18.3% of PUDs at year-end 2009 were associated with the Illinois Basin. All of these projects will have PUDs convert from undeveloped to developed as these projects begin production and/or production facilities are expanded or upgraded. Changes in PUDs that occurred during the year were due to:
•
conversion of approximately 1.1 Bcfe attributable to PUDs into proved developed reserves;
•
positive revisions of approximately 11.2 Bcfe in PUDs due to changes in commodity prices; and
•
24.1Bcfe in PUDs due to extensions and discoveries, which are primarily related to the extension of proved acreage in areas that are prospective for the Marcellus Shale through our drilling activities.
Costs incurred relating to the development of PUDs were approximately $5.8 million in 2009. Estimated future development costs relating to the development of PUDs are projected to be approximately $54.8 million in 2010, $13.3 million in 2011, $4.5 million in 2012, $4.5 million in 2013, and $5.1 million in 2014.
All PUD drilling locations are scheduled to be drilled prior to the end of 2014. Initial production from these PUDs is expected to begin between 2010 to 2015. We do not have PUDs associated with reserves that have been booked for longer than five years.
The following table summarizes the changes in our proved undeveloped reserves for the year ended December 31, 2009:
Reservation Estimation.
Netherland, Sewell & Associates, Inc. (“NSAI”), an independent petroleum engineering firm, evaluated our reserves on a consolidated basis as of December 31, 2009. At December 31, 2009, these consultants collectively reviewed all of our proved reserves. A copy of the summary reserve report is included as Exhibit 99.1 to this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The technical persons responsible for preparing our proved reserves estimates meet the requirements with regards to qualifications, independence, objectivity and confidentiality set forth in the Standards Pertaining to the Estimating and Auditing of Oil and Gas Reserves Information promulgated by the Society of Petroleum Engineers. Our independent third-party engineers do not own an interest in any of our properties and are not employed by us on a contingent basis.
We maintain an internal staff of petroleum engineers and geoscience professionals who work closely with NSAI to ensure the integrity, accuracy and timeliness of the data used to calculate our proved reserves. Our internal technical team members meet with NSAI periodically throughout the year to discuss the assumptions and methods used in the proved reserve estimation process. We provide historical information to NSAI for our properties such as ownership interest; oil and gas production; well test data; commodity prices and operating and development costs. The preparation of our proved reserve estimates are completed in accordance with our internal control procedures, which include the verification of input data used by NSAI, as well as extensive management review and approval.
Acreage and Productive Wells Summary
The following table sets forth, for our continuing operations, our gross and net acreage of developed and undeveloped oil and natural gas leases and our gross and net productive oil and natural gas wells as of December 31, 2009:
(1) Undeveloped acreage is lease acreage on which wells have not been drilled or completed to a point that would permit the production of commercial quantities of oil and natural gas, regardless of whether such acreage includes proved reserves.
(2) Developed acreage is the number of acres allocated or assignable to producing wells or wells capable of production.
(3) In addition, we own royalty interests in approximately 135 natural gas wells in the Appalachian Basin.
(4) In addition, we own royalty interests in approximately 111 oil wells in the Illinois Basin.
(5) The net acreage amount excludes approximately 22,000 acres which can be earned by Williams pursuant to the Participation and Exportation Agreement entered into on June 18, 2009.
Substantially all of the leases summarized in the preceding table will expire at the end of their respective primary terms unless the existing lease is renewed or we have obtained production from the acreage subject to the lease before the end of the primary term; in which event, the lease will remain in effect until the cessation of production.
The following table sets forth, for our continuing operations, the gross and net acres of undeveloped land subject to leases summarized in the preceding table that will expire during the periods indicated:
Drilling Results
The following table summarizes our drilling activity for the past three years. Gross wells reflect the sum of all wells in which we own an interest. Net wells reflect the sum of our working interests in gross wells. All of our drilling activities are conducted on a contract basis by independent drilling contractors. We own four workover rigs which are used in our Illinois Basin operations. We do not own any drilling equipment.
(1) The success ratio is calculated as follows: (total wells drilled-non-productive wells-wells awaiting completion)/(total wells drilled-wells awaiting completion). As of December 31, 2009, we had seven gross (6.5 net) wells awaiting completion.
Title to Properties
We believe that we have satisfactory title to all of our producing properties in accordance with generally accepted industry standards. As is customary in the industry, in the case of undeveloped properties, often minimal investigation of record title is made at the time of lease acquisition. A more comprehensive mineral title opinion review, a topographic evaluation and infrastructure investigations are made before the consummation of an acquisition of producing properties and before commencement of drilling operations on undeveloped properties. Individual properties may be subject to burdens that we believe do not materially interfere with the use or affect the value of the properties. Burdens on properties may include:
•
customary royalty interests;
•
liens incident to operating agreements and for current taxes;
•
obligations or duties under applicable laws;
•
development obligations under oil and gas leases;
•
net profit interests;
•
overriding royalty interests;
•
non-surface occupancy leases; and
•
lessor consents to placement of wells.
ITEM 3.