ITEM 2.
PROPERTIES
The table below summarizes certain data for our core operating areas at December 31, 2015:
Segment reporting is not applicable to our exploration and production operations, as we have a single company-wide management team that administers all properties as a whole rather than by discrete operating segments. We track only basic operational data by area. We do not maintain complete separate financial statement information by area. We measure financial performance as a single enterprise and not on an area-by-area basis.
Appalachian Basin
As of December 31, 2015, we owned an interest in approximately 639 producing natural gas wells in the Appalachian Basin, located predominantly in Pennsylvania and Ohio. In addition to our producing wells in the basin, we own seven gross PUD drilling locations with total reserves of 33.4 Bcfe, and 29.0 gross locations with proved developed non-producing reserves totaling 103.3 Bcfe. At December 31, 2015, we had approximately 383,500 gross (319,700 net) acres in the Appalachian Basin under lease, of which 205,800 gross (195,000 net) acres were undeveloped. Of our total acreage holdings in the Appalachian Basin, we believe that approximately 275,200 gross (250,800 net) acres are prospective for three producing horizons, including the Marcellus, Utica and Burkett. Reserves at December 31, 2015 decreased 634.4 Bcfe, or 49.0%, from 2014 due primarily to the continued depressed commodity price environment.
Capital expenditures in 2015 for drilling and facility development totaled $189.0 million, which funded the drilling of 34.0 gross (23.0 net) wells. During the year, we placed into service 33.0 gross (13.6 net) wells and had an inventory of 22.0 gross (16.4 net) wells resting or awaiting completion.
Marcellus Shale
As of December 31, 2015, we had interests in approximately 319,300 gross (267,000 net) Marcellus Shale prospective acres in areas of Pennsylvania, and we continue to expand our position by strategically filling in key pieces of acreage to complete drilling units. Our total acreage holdings include approximately 286,400 gross (251,400 net) acres that we believe to be prospective for liquid-rich Marcellus production. During 2015, we drilled, or participated in the drilling of 27.0 gross (16.0 net) Marcellus Shale wells and placed into service 31.0 gross (16.2 net) Marcellus Shale wells. Our estimated proved reserves related to the Marcellus Shale as of December 31, 2015, totaled approximately 491.0 Bcfe, including three PUD locations with estimated proved reserves of 15.4 Bcfe and 15.0 proved non-producing locations with estimated proved reserves of 62.8 Bcfe.
We are a party to three joint ventures in Pennsylvania, our primary source for Marcellus production. The first joint venture, for which we serve as the operator, in our Butler County, Pennsylvania operating area is with Summit Discovery Resources II, LLC and Sumitomo Corporation (collectively “Sumitomo”). This joint venture covers an area of mutual interest in Butler, Beaver and Lawrence Counties, Pennsylvania. Our working interest in the area of mutual interest is approximately 70.0%. The second joint venture in our Westmoreland and Clearfield Counties, Pennsylvania project areas is with WPX Energy San Juan, LLC and Williams Production Appalachia, LLC (collectively “WPX”), with WPX serving as the operator. Our working interest in this area of mutual interest is approximately 40.0%. The third joint venture covers 32 specifically identified wells in our Butler County, Pennsylvania operated area between us and ArcLight. ArcLight is participating in these wells at a 35.0% working interest and does not participate in any of the acreage in the area. Upon the attainment of certain return on investment and internal rate of return thresholds, 50.0% of ArcLight’s 35.0% working interest will revert back to us.
Utica Shale
As of December 31, 2015, we had under lease approximately 332,000 gross (296,200 net) acres that we believe are prospective for the Utica Shale in Ohio and Pennsylvania. In Ohio, our holdings comprise approximately 28,500 gross (26,000 net) acres which we believe to be prospective for liquids-rich production. In Pennsylvania, we estimate that much of our acreage in Butler County is prospective for dry gas Utica Shale production as well as acreage in some other non-core areas of the state. As of December 31, 2015, we estimate Utica Shale acreage holdings in Pennsylvania of approximately 303,500 gross (270,200 net) acres. During 2015, we drilled seven gross (seven net) Utica Shale wells and placed into service four gross (four net) Utica Shale wells. Our estimated proved reserves related to the Utica Shale as of December 31, 2015, totaled approximately 123.0 Bcfe, including three PUD locations with estimated proved reserves of 12.8 Bcfe and 11.0 proved non-producing locations with estimated proved reserves of 33.4 Bcfe.
We are a party to one joint venture in Ohio related to our Utica Shale development. This joint venture, for which we serve as the operator, is with MFC Drilling, Inc. and covers an area of mutual interest in Belmont, Guernsey and Noble Counties, Ohio. Our average working interest in these areas is approximately 62.5%.
Burkett Shale
As of December 31, 2015, we had under lease approximately 275,200 gross (250,800 Net) acres prospective for the liquids-rich Upper Burkett Shale in Pennsylvania. During 2015, we did not drill any Burkett Shale wells and placed into service four gross (2.1 net) wells. Our estimated proved reserves related to the Burkett Shale as of December 31, 2015 totaled approximately 45.9 Bcfe, including one PUD location with estimated proved reserves of 5.2 Bcfe and three proved non-producing locations with estimated proved reserves of 7.1 Bcfe.
Illinois Basin
In the Illinois Basin, we own an interest in 1,180 oil wells. We have approximately 99,200 gross (79,700 net) acres owned and under lease.
Total estimated proved reserves in the Illinois Basin decreased approximately 22.0 Bcfe, or 51.9%, to approximately 20.4 Bcfe at December 31, 2015 when compared to year-end 2014, which was primarily due to the continued depressed commodity price environment. Capital expenditures in 2015 for drilling and facility improvements in the region were approximately $15.3 million, which funded the drilling of five gross (3.5 net) wells, the recompletion of five gross (five net) wells and the placement into service of eight gross (7.5 net) wells. These expenditures also covered work performed in the basin designed to optimize our secondary waterflood operations whereby we stabilized declining production.
Estimated Proved Reserves
For estimated proved reserves as of December 31, 2015, proved locations were identified, assessed and justified using the evaluation methods of performance analysis, volumetric analysis and analogy. In addition, reliable technologies were used to support a select number of undeveloped locations in the Marcellus and Utica Shale Regions. Within the Marcellus and Utica Shale Regions, we used both public and proprietary geologic data to establish continuity of the formation and its producing properties. This data included performance data, seismic data, micro-seismic analysis, open hole log information and petro-physical analysis of the log data, mud logs, log cross-sections, gas sample analysis, drill cutting samples, measurements of total organic content, thermal maturity and statistical analysis. In our development area, this data demonstrated consistent and continuous reservoir characteristics.
The following table sets forth our estimated proved reserves as defined in Rule 4.10(a) of Regulation S-X and Item 1200 of Regulation S-K. The information in this table is not intended to represent the current market value of our proved reserves nor does it give any effect to our commodity derivatives or current commodity prices.
All of our reserves are located within the continental United States. Reserve estimates are inherently imprecise and remain subject to revisions based on production history, results of additional exploration and development, prices of oil and natural gas and other factors. Please read “Item 1A.-Risk Factors-Risks Relating to Our Company-Our estimated reserves are based on many assumptions that may turn out to be inaccurate. Any significant inaccuracies in these reserve estimates or underlying assumptions may materially affect the quantities and present value of our reserves.” You should also read the notes following the table below and our Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended December 31, 2015 in conjunction with our reserve estimates.
The following table sets forth our estimated proved reserves at the end of each of the past three years:
The estimates of reserves in the table above conform to the guidelines of the SEC. Estimated recoverable proved reserves have been determined without regard to any economic impact that may result from our financial derivative activities. These calculations were prepared using standard geological and engineering methods generally accepted by the petroleum industry. The reserve information shown is estimated. The certainty of any reserve estimate is a function of the quality of available geological, geophysical, engineering and economic data, the precision of the engineering and geological interpretation and judgment. The estimates of reserves, future cash flows and present value are based on various assumptions, and are inherently imprecise. Although we believe these estimates are reasonable, actual future production, cash flows, taxes, development expenditures, operating expenses and quantities of recoverable oil and natural gas reserves may vary substantially from these estimates.
We converted crude oil and NGLs to Mcf equivalent at a ratio of one barrel to six Mcfe.
PV-10, a non-GAAP measure, represents the present value, discounted at 10% per annum of estimated future cash flows of our estimated proved reserves before income tax and asset retirement obligations. The estimated future cash flows set forth above were determined by using reserve quantities of estimated proved reserves and the periods in which they are expected to be developed and produced based on prevailing economic conditions. The estimated future production is priced based on the 12-month unweighted arithmetic average of the first-day-of-the-month price for the period January through December 2015 of $46.79 per barrel of oil and $2.587 per Mcfe of natural gas. These prices are adjusted for transportation fees, quality and regional price differentials resulting in $44.45 per barrel of oil, $12.48 per barrel of NGLs and $2.401 per Mcf of natural gas. Management believes that the presentation of the non-GAAP financial measure of PV-10 provides useful information to investors because it is widely used by professional analysts and sophisticated investors in evaluating oil and natural gas companies. For an explanation of why we show PV-10 and a reconciliation of PV-10 to the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flow, please read “Item 6. Selected Financial Data - Non-GAAP Financial Measures.” Please also read “Item 1A. Risk Factors-Risks Related to Our Company-Our estimated reserves are based on many assumptions that may turn out to be inaccurate. Any significant inaccuracies in these reserve estimates or underlying assumptions may materially affect the quantities and present value of our reserves.”
Proved Undeveloped Reserves (PUDs)
As of December 31, 2015, our PUD reserves totaled 0.4 MMbbl of oil, 2.4 MMbbl of NGLs and 16.7 Bcf of natural gas, for a total of 33.4 Bcfe. All of our PUDs at year-end 2015 were associated with the Appalachian Basin. All of these projects are expected to have PUDs convert from undeveloped to developed as these projects begin production and/or production facilities are expanded or upgraded. Changes in PUDs that occurred during the year were due to:
●
conversion of approximately 24.9 Bcfe attributable to PUDs into proved developed reserves;
●
negative revisions of 700.4 Bcfe attributable to lower commodity pricing; and
●
33.4 Bcfe in PUDs due to extensions and discoveries, which are primarily related to the extension of proved acreage in areas that are believed to be prospective for the Marcellus, Utica and Burkett Shale, through our drilling activities. During 2015, we drilled 17.0 gross (15.2 net) wells that were not considered proved in addition to 22.0 gross (11.3 net) wells that were classified as PUDs as of December 31, 2014.
Costs incurred relating to the development of 22.0 gross (3.9 net) PUD locations converted to proved developed were approximately $10.5 million in 2015. Estimated future development costs relating to the development of our seven gross (5.2 net) PUDs are projected to be approximately $19.0 million in 2016.
All of our PUD drilling locations are scheduled to be drilled in 2016. Initial production from these PUD locations is expected to begin in 2016. We do not have PUD locations associated with reserves that have been booked for longer than five years. Approximately six gross (4.3 net) PUD locations were booked based on reliable technology. Reliable technologies include the use of both public and proprietary geologic data to establish continuity of the formation and its producing properties. This data includes performance data, seismic data, micro-seismic analysis, open hole log information and petro-physical analysis of the log data, mud logs, log cross-sections, gas sample analysis, drill cutting samples, measurements of total organic content, thermal maturity and statistical analysis. In cases where a producing lateral well has been drilled but not yet fracture stimulated, we use observations from drill cuttings and logs as reliable technology to confirm the resources are likely in place for extraction and to support scheduling the well for fracture stimulation in the near future.
Our estimated proved undeveloped reserves at December 31, 2015, did not include any locations that were more than one offset away from a producing well. During 2015, we drilled 35.0 gross (16.6 net) wells that were more than one offset away from a producing well. Our estimated proved undeveloped reserves did not include any locations that generated positive future net revenue but negative present value discounted at 10%.
The following table summarizes the changes in our proved undeveloped reserves for the year ended December 31, 2015:
In our 2014 reserve report, we had 197.0 gross proved undeveloped locations scheduled for development between 2015 and 2021, of which 20.0 were scheduled for development in 2015. During 2015, 11.0 of the 197.0 PUD locations were completed and converted to proved developed producing reserves. This equated to a conversion of approximately 5.6% of our proved undeveloped locations to proved developed producing reserves. The depressed commodity price environment has significantly impacted our development plans, leading to the removal of the majority of our remaining proved undeveloped locations from the 2015 reserves report. At all times, development plans and changes thereto are based on a comprehensive analysis of what we believe to be the most relevant factors in determining such plans. While we do take into consideration NYMEX strip pricing at year end when scheduling future development, for the December 31, 2015 reserve report, we also evaluated additional factors, including but not limited to, the timing of acreage expirations, the need to hold acreage by production, lease commitments, availability and cost of capital, availability of operational resources such as drilling rigs and other services, costs of drilling and related services, infrastructure and takeaway capacity, firm capacity commitments, and overall projected returns. Based on a comprehensive evaluation of these and other relevant factors, we made decisions about initial scheduling and subsequent rescheduling of our development plans. The ultimate objective for every such evaluation and analysis is to align our development and capital expenditures plans to focus on projects that management believes will provide the greatest returns.
Anticipated capital expenditures related to proved undeveloped locations of approximately $19.0 million are significantly lower than in prior years. This reduction is largely due to the current commodity price environment and the related impact on the economic viability of our proved undeveloped locations from 2014 and prior years, as described above. We have evaluated the impact on our proved undeveloped reserves based on spot commodity prices of $32.53 per barrel of oil and $2.152 per MMbtu of gas at February 1, 2016, due to the differences between SEC pricing and spot pricing on this date. This analysis includes only the impact of the change in pricing and does not contemplate changes in development costs, operating expenses, taxes, operational efficiencies, changes in technologies and access to capital. Based on spot commodity pricing at February 1, 2016, our proved undeveloped reserves would have been approximately 9.9% less than the results obtained using the SEC-mandated beginning-of-the-month average prices for the trailing 12 months for the year ended December 31, 2015. Our number of proved undeveloped locations would have decreased from seven gross (5.2 net) locations to four gross (2.6 net) locations and projected future development costs related to the development of proved undeveloped locations would have been reduced from approximately $19.0 million to approximately $9.1 million.
The foregoing calculations of the impact of lower commodity prices were prepared assuming that all inputs and factors other than commodity prices remain constant, thereby isolating the impact of commodity prices on our PUD reserves, PUD locations and future development costs related to the development of PUDs. Price is only one variable in the estimation of our proved reserves, and other factors could have a significant impact on future reserves and the present value of future cash flows, including, but not limited to, extensions and discoveries, changes in costs, drilling results, well performance and changes in our development plans. There are numerous uncertainties inherent in the estimation of proved reserves and accounting for oil and natural gas properties in subsequent periods and this pro forma estimate should not be construed as indicative of our development plans or future results
Reserve Estimation
The reserves estimates shown herein have been independently evaluated by Netherland, Sewell & Associates, Inc. (NSAI), a worldwide leader of petroleum property analysis for industry and financial organizations and government agencies. NSAI was founded in 1961 and performs consulting petroleum engineering services under Texas Board of Professional Engineers Registration No.. Within NSAI, the technical persons primarily responsible for preparing the estimates set forth in the NSAI reserves report incorporated herein are Mr. Richard B. Talley, Jr. and Mr. David E. Nice. Mr. Talley has been practicing consulting petroleum engineering at NSAI since 2004. Mr. Talley is a Licensed Professional Engineer in the State of Texas (No. 102425) and has over 16 years of practical experience in petroleum engineering, with over 11 years of experience in the estimation and evaluation of reserves. He graduated from the University of Oklahoma in 1998 with a Bachelor of Science Degree in Mechanical Engineering and from Tulane University in 2001 with a Master of Business Administration Degree. Mr. Nice has been practicing consulting petroleum
geology at NSAI since 1998. Mr. Nice is a Licensed Professional Geoscientist in the State of Texas, Geology (No. 346) and has over 30 years of practical experience in petroleum geosciences, with over 17 years of experience in the estimation and evaluation of reserves. He graduated from the University of Wyoming in 1982 with a Bachelor of Science Degree in Geology and in 1985 with a Master of Science Degree in Geology. Both technical principals meet or exceed the education, training, and experience requirements set forth in the Standards Pertaining to the Estimating and Auditing of Oil and Gas Reserves Information promulgated by the Society of Petroleum Engineers; both are proficient in judiciously applying industry standard practices to engineering and geoscience evaluations as well as applying SEC and other industry reserves definitions and guidelines.
We maintain an internal staff of petroleum engineers and geoscience professionals who work closely with NSAI to ensure the integrity, accuracy and timeliness of the data used to calculate our estimated proved reserves. Our internal technical team members meet with NSAI periodically throughout the year to discuss the assumptions and methods used in the proved reserve estimation process. We provide historical information to NSAI for our properties such as ownership interest; oil and gas production; well test data; commodity prices and operating and development costs. The preparation of our proved reserve estimates are completed in accordance with our internal control procedures, which include documented process workflows, the verification of input data used by NSAI, as well as management review and approval.
All of our reserve estimates are reviewed and approved by our Chief Operating Officer. Our Chief Operating Officer holds a Bachelor of Science degree in Petroleum Engineering from Marietta University, as well as a Masters of Business Administration from the University of Denver. He has more than 30 years of experience, most recently with Noble Energy, managing their Appalachian Basin assets. In addition to his extensive working experience, our Chief Operating Officer has served as a board member for the Marcellus Shale Coalition and the West Virginia Oil and Natural Gas Association.
Acreage and Productive Wells Summary
The following table sets forth, for our continuing operations, our gross and net acreage of developed and undeveloped oil and natural gas leases and our gross and net productive oil and natural gas wells as of December 31, 2015:
(1)
Undeveloped acreage is lease acreage on which wells have not been drilled or completed to a point that would permit the production of commercial quantities of oil and natural gas, regardless of whether such acreage includes estimated proved reserves.
(2)
Developed acreage is the number of acres allocated or assignable to producing wells or wells capable of production.
Substantially all of the undeveloped leases summarized in the preceding table will expire at the end of their respective primary terms unless the existing lease is renewed, we have commenced the necessary operations required by the terms of the lease, or we have obtained actual production from acreage subject to the lease, in which event, the lease will remain in effect until the cessation of production.
The following table sets forth, for our continuing operations, the gross and net acres of undeveloped land subject to leases summarized in the preceding table that will expire during the periods indicated:
The expiring acreage set forth in the table above accounts for 60.7% our total net acreage. As of December 31, 2015, we have not assigned any estimated proved reserves to locations which are currently schedule to be drilled after lease expiration. We are continually engaged in a combination of drilling and development and discussions with mineral lessors for lease extensions, renewals, new drilling and development units and new leases to address the expiration of undeveloped acreage that occurs in the normal course of our business.
Drilling Results
The following table summarizes our drilling activity for continuing operations for the past three years. Gross wells reflect the sum of all wells in which we own an interest. Net wells reflect the sum of our working interests in gross wells. All of our drilling activities are conducted on a contract basis by independent drilling contractors. We own several workover rigs, which are used in our Illinois Basin operations. We do not own any drilling equipment.
Success ratio is calculated by dividing the total successful wells drilled divided by the total wells drilled.
Title to Properties
We believe that we have satisfactory title to all of our producing properties in accordance with generally accepted industry standards. As is customary in the industry, in the case of undeveloped properties, we often conduct a preliminary investigation of record title and related matters at the time of lease acquisition. We conduct more comprehensive mineral title opinion reviews, detailed topographic evaluations and infrastructure investigations before the consummation of an acquisition of producing properties and before commencement of drilling operations on undeveloped properties. Individual properties may be subject to burdens that we believe do not materially interfere with the use or affect the value of the properties. Burdens on properties may include:
●
customary royalty interests;
●
liens incident to operating agreements and for current taxes;
●
obligations or duties under applicable laws;
●
development obligations under oil and gas leases;
●
net profit interests;
●
overriding royalty interests;
●
non-surface occupancy leases; and
●
lessor consents to placement of wells.
ITEM 3.