ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
The table below summarizes certain data for our core operating areas for the year ended December 31, 2010 (as of December 31, 2010, there were no reserves or production from our DJ Basin operations):
Segment reporting is not applicable to us, as we have a single company-wide management team that administers all properties as a whole rather than by discrete operating segments. We track only basic operational data by area. We do not maintain complete separate financial statement information by area. We measure financial performance as a single enterprise and not on an area-by-area basis.
Illinois Basin
In the Illinois Basin, we own an interest in 1,856 wells, which includes 491 disposal and injection wells. We have approximately 63,000 gross (35,000 net) acres owned and under lease. During the third quarter of 2008, we sold approximately 79,000 net undeveloped acres in Indiana and certain non-producing wells, which was a part of our New Albany Shale exploration projects, for approximately $8.4 million in proceeds.
Total proved reserves in the Illinois Basin decreased approximately 12.8 Bcfe, or 20.8%, to approximately 48.9 Bcfe at December 31, 2010 when compared to year-end 2009, which was primarily a result of the removal of conventional proved undeveloped locations that we do not intend to drill within the next five years. Proved developed reserves increased year-over-year by approximately 1.4% as a result of increased oil prices. Annual production decreased 3.9% from 2009. Capital expenditures in 2010 for drilling and facility improvements in the region were approximately $20.8 million, which funded the drilling of 15.0 gross (11.9 net) wells, of which one gross (0.5 net) was awaiting completion as of December 31, 2010. In addition, these expenditures covered the drilling of 24.0 gross (24.0 net) wells related to our Lawrence Field ASP Flood Project in Lawrence County, Illinois, 17.0 gross (17.0 net) which are in connection with our current 15-acre pilot. Capital expenditures for drilling and facilities development for the Lawrence Field ASP Flood Project totaled approximately $7.9 million.
As mentioned above, we removed our entire inventory of proved undeveloped locations due to the lack of intentions to drill these locations within the required time frame of five years, as set forth by the SEC. We have thus moved our focus to our Lawrence Field ASP Flood Project.
Lawrence Field ASP Flood Project
We are implementing an alkali-surfactant-polymer (“ASP”) flood project in the Cypress and Bridgeport Sandstone reservoirs of our Lawrence Field acreage. The Lawrence Field ASP Flood Project is considered an Enhanced Oil Recovery (“EOR”) project, which refers to recovery of oil that is not producible by primary or secondary recovery methods.
We currently own and operate 21.2 square miles (approximately 13,500 net acres) of the Lawrence Field. The Cypress (Mississippian) and the Bridgeport (Pennsylvanian) sandstones are the major producing horizons in the field. To date, approximately 40% of the estimated one billion barrels of original oil in place has been produced.
In the 1960s, 1970s and 1980s, a number of EOR projects using surfactant polymer floods were implemented in several fields in the Illinois Basin by Marathon Oil Corp. (“Marathon”), Texaco and Exxon in an attempt to recover a portion of the large percentage of the original oil in place that was being bypassed by the secondary recovery waterflood. These test projects reportedly were able to recover incremental oil reserves of 15% to 30% of the original oil in place. While we believe the results of these projects are pertinent, there can be no assurance that our Lawrence Field ASP Flood Project, which uses technology that was not developed at the time of the prior EOR projects, will achieve similar results. ASP technology, which uses mechanisms to mobilize bypassed residual oil similar to these previous surfactant polymer floods but at significantly lower costs, has been applied by other companies in several fields around the world resulting in significant incremental recoveries of the original oil in place. Chemicals used in the Lawrence Field ASP Flood Project are an alkali, a surfactant and a polymer. The alkali and surfactant combination acts like a soap and washes residual oil from the reservoir mainly by reducing interfacial tension between the oil and the water. The polymer is added to improve sweep displacement efficiency by pushing the “washed” molecules through the rock pores of the reservoir. ASP technology achieves its incremental recovery by reducing capillary forces that trap oil, improving aerial and vertical sweep efficiency and reducing mobility ratio.
The goal of our Lawrence Field ASP Flood Project is to duplicate the oil recovery performance of the surfactant polymer floods conducted in the field in the 1980s, but at a significantly lower cost. We expect this
cost reduction to be accomplished by utilizing newer technologies to optimize the synergistic performance of the three chemicals used, and by using alkali in the formula, which would allow us to use a significantly lower concentration of the more costly surfactant.
In 2000, PennTex Resources Illinois, Inc., one of our Predecessor Companies, then known as Plains Illinois, Inc., and the U.S. Department of Energy conducted a study on the potential of an ASP project in the Lawrence Field, with consulting services provided by an independent engineering firm specializing in the design and implementation of chemical oil recovery systems. Based on the modeling of the reservoir characteristics and laboratory tests with cores taken in the Lawrence Field, the evaluation found oil recovery in the field could be increased significantly by installing an ASP flood. However, there can be no assurance that our Lawrence Field ASP Flood Project will achieve similar results.
During 2008 and 2009, we completed two four acre pilot tests, one each in the Bridgeport and Cypress sandstones. Both of the pilots demonstrated a response to the chemical injection, as indicated by an increase in both oil production and the oil cut ratio. Each pilot area had individual wells whose oil cut exceeded 10% after the initial response; whereas the oil cuts for both pilots at the time ASP injection was initiated were less than 1%. As of December 31, 2010, we had completed the ASP injection phase in our 15-acre Middagh Unit, with a final pore volume of 25% and are now in the process of completing the polymer push phase of the project. Initial results of this pilot unit are expected during the first or second quarters of 2011. Our Lawrence Field ASP Project is not a proved project nor are any of the potential reserves associated with this project considered proved at this time.
We have identified, thus far, 27 potential separate flood units (15 Bridgeport/12 Cypress). We are currently in the process of designing the first operationally sized ASP unit in the Bridgeport sandstone which will cover approximately 55 acres with chemical injection commencing during 2011. Assuming our Middagh Unit flood is successful; we would consider an ASP flood in this operationally sized unit. Depending on the size of each flood unit, it is anticipated that initial response time from the chemical injection date will be approximately 10 to 12 months and the time to peak response will be approximately 24 to 30 months.
Appalachian Basin
As of December 31, 2010, we owned an interest in approximately 461 producing natural gas wells in the Appalachian Basin, located predominantly in Pennsylvania. In addition to our producing wells in the basin, we own 59 Marcellus Shale proved undeveloped drilling locations with total reserves of 116.4 Bcfe, and four Marcellus Shale locations with proved developed non-producing reserves totaling 9.2 Bcfe. As with our properties in the Illinois Basin, we removed any proved undeveloped locations that were not expected to be drilled within the next five years. At December 31, 2010, we had approximately 139,000 gross (69,000 net) acres in the Appalachian Basin under lease, of which 86,000 gross (48,000 net) acres were undeveloped.
Reserves at December 31, 2010 increased 89.3 Bcfe, or 140%, from 2009 due primarily to our successful Marcellus Shale exploration activities. Annual production increased 108% over 2009.
Marcellus Shale
The Marcellus Shale is a black, organic rich shale formation located at depths between 5,000 and 8,500 feet and ranges in thickness from 50 to 220 feet on our acreage in southwestern and central Pennsylvania. As of December 31, 2010, we had interests in approximately 112,000 gross (56,000 net) Marcellus Shale prospective acres in these areas of Pennsylvania and we continue to expand our position.
In June of 2009, we entered into a Participation and Exploration Agreement (the “Williams PEA”) with Williams. Under the terms and conditions of the Williams PEA, Williams acquired, through a “drill-to-earn” structure, 50% of our working interest in certain oil and gas leases covering approximately 44,000 net acres in Centre, Clearfield and Westmoreland Counties, Pennsylvania (the “Project Area”). The Williams PEA effectively provided that, for Williams to earn its 50% interest in the Project Area, Williams had to bear 90% of all costs and
expenses incurred in the drilling and completion of all wells jointly drilled in the Project Area until such time as Williams had invested approximately $74.0 million (approximately $33.0 million on behalf of us and $41.0 million for Williams’ 50% share of the wells). Once Williams completed its carry obligation and acquired 50% of our working interest in the leases within the Project Area, the parties share all costs of the joint venture operations with an area of mutual interest (including the Project Area) in accordance with their participating interests, which were expected to be on a 50/50 basis prior to our Sumitomo joint venture transaction. Williams met its drilling carry obligation during the fourth quarter of 2010.
On September 30, 2010, we entered into a joint venture transaction with Sumitomo. In Butler and Beaver Counties, Pennsylvania we sold a 15% non-operated interest in approximately 41,000 net acres for approximately $30.6 million in cash at closing and $30.6 million in the form of a drilling carry of 80% of our drilling and completion costs in the area. Pursuant to the Participation and Exploration Agreement (the “Sumitomo PEA”), Sumitomo agreed to pay all costs to lease approximately 9,000 acres in the Butler County Area of Mutual Interest (“AMI”) (the “Phase I Leasing”), and is to pay to us a leasing management fee of $1,000 per net acre during the Phase I Leasing. Under the Sumitomo PEA, upon the conclusion of Phase I Leasing, we are to cross assign interests in the leases with Sumitomo to provide uniformity of interest in each lease in the Butler County AMI. Assuming the full 9,000 net acres are leased, the final ownership percentages in the Butler County AMI would be approximately 70% to us and 30% to Sumitomo. In addition to the sale of undeveloped acreage, we also sold to Sumitomo 30% of our interests in 20 Marcellus Shale wells within the Butler County AMI and 30% of our interest in Keystone Midstream.
In our Marcellus Shale joint venture Project Area with Williams, which is discussed above, we sold to Sumitomo 20% of our interests in 22,000 net acres for approximately $19.0 million in cash at closing and $19.0 million in the form of a drilling carry of 80% of our drilling and completion costs in the Project Area. In addition, we sold 20% of our interests in 19 Marcellus Shale wells located in the Williams joint venture areas and 20% of our interest in RW Gathering, LLC. The resulting working interest ownership is 50% Williams, 40% Rex Energy and 10% Sumitomo.
In addition to the areas above, we sold to Sumitomo 50% of our interests in approximately 4,500 net acres in Fayette and Centre Counties, Pennsylvania for $9.2 million in cash at closing and $9.2 million in the form of a drilling carry of 80% of our drilling and completion costs. Pursuant to the Sumitomo PEA, the drilling carry for these areas may be applied, at our discretion, to drilling and completion costs attributable to either the Butler County or Williams Project Areas.
At closing, we received approximately $99.5 million in cash, which included a reimbursement for leasing expenses incurred subsequent to the effective date of September 1, 2010, in the amount of $7.6 million. Additionally, the cash payment included a reimbursement for drilling related expenses incurred subsequent to the effective date in the amount of approximately $7.5 million, which was applied against the drilling carry. As of December 31, 2010 the remaining drilling carry with Sumitomo was approximately $28.8 million.
Capital expenditures in 2010 for drilling and facility development totaled $36.1 million, which funded the drilling of 27.0 gross (15.0 net) wells, of which 10.0 gross (5.2 net) were completed and producing and 17.0 gross (9.8 net) were awaiting completion and are expected to be productive. Our plans for 2011 have allocated approximately $109.4 million in capital expenditures to our Marcellus Shale project areas.
DJ Basin
In the DJ Basin, we have approximately 65,000 gross (45,000 net) acres under lease. We believe that our acreage in the DJ Basin is prospective for Niobrara horizontal oil well drilling. Capital expenditures for 2010 for drilling and facility development totaled approximately $18.2 million, which funded the drilling of four gross (3.5 net) exploratory wells, which were in various stages of drilling and completion as of the end of the year. We expect to have initial results from these initial test wells during the first quarter of 2011. Our plans for 2011 have allocated approximately $27.0 million in capital expenditures to our Niobrara project areas.
Proved Reserves
In December 2008, the SEC released its finalized rule for “Modernization of Oil and Gas Reporting,” which we adopted effective December 31, 2009, as required by the SEC. The most significant amendments to the requirements included the following:
•
Commodity Prices: Economic producibility of reserves and discounted cash flows, by significant geographic area, are now based on a 12-month average commodity price unless contractual arrangements designate the price to be used, as opposed to the use of year-end prices as was practiced previously.
•
Disclosure of Unproved Reserves: Probable and possible reserves may be disclosed separately on a voluntary basis.
•
Proved Undeveloped Reserve Guidelines: Reserves may be classified as proved undeveloped if there is a high degree of confidence that the quantities will be recovered and they are scheduled to be drilled within the next five years, unless the specific circumstances justify a longer time.
•
Reserves Estimation Using New Technologies: Reserves may be estimated through the use of reliable technology in addition to flow tests and production history, contingent on demonstrated reliability in conclusions about reserve volumes.
•
Reserves Personnel and Estimation Process: Additional disclosure is required regarding the qualifications and independence of the chief technical person who oversees the reserves estimation process. We are also required to provide a general discussion of our internal controls used to assure the objectivity of the reserves estimate.
•
Non-Traditional Resources: The definition of oil and gas producing activities has expanded and focuses on the marketable product rather than the method of extraction.
For proved reserves as of December 31, 2010, proved locations were identified, assessed and justified using the evaluation methods of performance analysis, volumetric analysis and analogy. In addition, reliable technologies were used to support a select number of undeveloped locations in the Marcellus Shale Region. Within the Marcellus Shale Region, we used both public and proprietary geologic data to establish continuity of the formation and its producing properties. This data included performance data, seismic data, micro-seismic analysis, open hole log information and petrophysical analysis of the log data, mud logs, log cross-sections, gas sample analysis, drill cutting samples, measurements of total organic content, thermal maturity and statistical analysis. In our development area, these data demonstrated consistent and continuous reservoir characteristics.
Application of the new reserve rules resulted in the use of lower prices at December 31, 2010 for oil and higher prices for natural gas than would have resulted under the previous rules. Use of new 12-month average pricing rules at December 31, 2010 resulted in proved reserves of approximately 201.7 Bcfe. Use of the old year-end prices rules would have resulted in proved reserves of approximately 205.0 Bcfe at December 31, 2010. Therefore, the total impact of the new price methodology rules resulted in negative reserves revisions of 3.3 Bcfe.
The following table sets forth our estimated proved reserves based on the new SEC rules as defined in Rule 4.10(a) of Regulation S-X and Item 1200 of Regulation S-K:
All of our reserves are located within the continental United States. Reserve estimates are inherently imprecise and remain subject to revisions based on production history, results of additional exploration and development, prices of oil and natural gas and other factors. Please read “Item 1A - Risk Factors-Our estimated reserves are based on many assumptions that may turn out to be inaccurate. Any significant inaccuracies in these reserve estimates or underlying assumptions may materially affect the quantities and present value of our reserves.” You should also read the notes following the table below and our Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended December 31, 2010 in conjunction with the following reserve estimates.
The following table sets forth our estimated proved reserves at the end of each of the past three years:
The estimates of reserves in the table above conform to the guidelines of the SEC. Estimated recoverable proved reserves have been determined without regard to any economic impact that may result from our financial derivative activities. These calculations were prepared using standard geological and engineering methods generally accepted by the petroleum industry. The reserve information shown is estimated. The certainty of any reserve estimate is a function of the quality of available geological, geophysical, engineering and economic data, the precision of the engineering and geological interpretation and judgment. The estimates of reserves, future cash flows and present value are based on various assumptions, and are inherently imprecise. Although we believe these estimates are reasonable, actual future production, cash flows, taxes, development expenditures, operating expenses and quantities of recoverable oil and natural gas reserves may vary substantially from these estimates.
Totals of estimated proved reserves, PV-10 Value and Pro Forma Standardized Measure exclude values from our Southwest Region properties which are classified as Held for Sale on our Consolidated Balance Sheet at December 31, 2008.
We converted crude oil and NGLs to Mcf equivalent at a ratio of one barrel to six Mcfe.
Represents the present value, discounted at 10% annum (PV-10), of estimated future cash flows before income tax of our estimated proved reserves. The estimated future cash flows set forth above were determined by using reserve quantities of proved reserves and the periods in which they are expected to be developed and produced based on prevailing economic conditions. The estimated future production is priced based on the 12-month unweighted arithmetic average of the first-day-of-the-month price for the period January through December 2010, using $76.03 per barrel of oil, $31.71 per barrel of NGLs and $4.567 per MMBtu of natural gas, adjusted by lease for transportation fees and regional price differentials. Management believes that the presentation of the non-GAAP financial measure of PV-10 provides useful information to investors because it is widely used by professional analysts and sophisticated investors in evaluating oil and natural gas companies. For an explanation of why we show PV-10 and a reconciliation of PV-10 to the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flow, please read “Item 6. Selected Historical Financial and Operating Data-Non-GAAP Financial Measures.” Please also read “Item 1A. Risk Factors-Our estimated reserves are based on many assumptions that may turn out to be inaccurate. Any significant inaccuracies in these reserve estimates or underlying assumptions may materially affect the quantities and present value of our reserves.”
Proved Undeveloped Reserves (PUDs)
As of December 31, 2010, our proved undeveloped reserves totaled 3.5 MMBOE of NGLs and 95.1 Bcf of natural gas, for a total of 116.4 Bcfe. All of our PUDs at year-end 2010 were associated with the Appalachian Basin, and more specifically the Marcellus Shale. All of these projects will have PUDs convert from undeveloped to developed as these projects begin production and/or production facilities are expanded or upgraded. Changes in PUDs that occurred during the year were due to:
•
conversion of approximately 22.8 Bcfe attributable to PUDs into proved developed reserves;
•
downward revisions of approximately 17.2 Bcfe in PUDs due to the removal of conventional oil PUDs in the Illinois Basin and conventional gas PUDs in the Appalachian Basin. We do not intend to drill these locations within the next five years due to a shift in focus to unconventional recovery methods;
•
decrease of approximately 11.8 Bcfe due to our joint venture transaction with Sumitomo; and
•
114.0 Bcfe in PUDs due to extensions and discoveries, which are primarily related to the extension of proved acreage in areas that are prospective for the Marcellus Shale through our drilling activities. During 2010, we drilled approximately 13.0 gross (7.0 net) Marcellus Shale wells that were not considered proved in addition to 14.0 gross (8.0 net) Marcellus Shale wells that were classified as PUDs as of December 31, 2009.
Costs incurred relating to the development of 14 PUDs to proved developed were approximately $25.8 million in 2010. Estimated future development costs relating to the development of our 59 PUDs are projected to be approximately $43.4 million in 2011, $44.5 million in 2012, $39.5 million in 2013, $25.6 million in 2014, and $0 in 2015.
All PUD drilling locations are scheduled to be drilled prior to the end of 2015, including approximately 30% of the total in 2011. Initial production from these PUDs is expected to begin between 2011 to 2016. We do not have PUDs associated with reserves that have been booked for longer than five years. Approximately 15.0 gross (8.3 net) PUDs were booked using reliable technology.
The following table summarizes the changes in our proved undeveloped reserves for the year ended December 31, 2010:
Reserve Estimation
Netherland, Sewell & Associates, Inc. (“NSAI”), an independent petroleum engineering firm, evaluated our reserves on a consolidated basis as of December 31, 2010. At December 31, 2010, these consultants collectively reviewed all of our proved reserves. A copy of the summary reserve report is included as Exhibit 99.1 to this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The technical persons responsible for preparing our proved reserves estimates meet the requirements with regards to qualifications, independence, objectivity and confidentiality set forth in the Standards Pertaining to the Estimating and Auditing of Oil and Gas Reserves Information promulgated by the Society of Petroleum Engineers. Our independent third-party engineers do not own an interest in any of our properties and are not employed by us on a contingent basis.
We maintain an internal staff of petroleum engineers and geoscience professionals who work closely with NSAI to ensure the integrity, accuracy and timeliness of the data used to calculate our proved reserves. Our internal technical team members meet with NSAI periodically throughout the year to discuss the assumptions and methods used in the proved reserve estimation process. We provide historical information to NSAI for our properties such as ownership interest; oil and gas production; well test data; commodity prices and operating and development costs. The preparation of our proved reserve estimates are completed in accordance with our internal control procedures, which include documented process workflows, the verification of input data used by NSAI, as well as extensive management review and approval.
All of our reserve estimates are reviewed and approved by our Director, Reservoir Engineering and our Chief Operating Officer. Our Director, Reservoir Engineering holds a Bachelor of Science degree in Petroleum Engineering from the University of Texas at Austin with more than six years of experience in preparing reserve reports under the guidelines of the SEC with Cano Petroleum. Our Chief Operating Officer holds a Bachelor of Science degree in Petroleum Engineering from the University of Wyoming and an M.B.A. from Pepperdine University, with nearly 25 years of experience working for companies such as Cano Petroleum, Pioneer Natural Resources and Union Pacific Resources.
Acreage and Productive Wells Summary
The following table sets forth, for our continuing operations, our gross and net acreage of developed and undeveloped oil and natural gas leases and our gross and net productive oil and natural gas wells as of December 31, 2010:
(1) Undeveloped acreage is lease acreage on which wells have not been drilled or completed to a point that would permit the production of commercial quantities of oil and natural gas, regardless of whether such acreage includes proved reserves.
(2) Developed acreage is the number of acres allocated or assignable to producing wells or wells capable of production.
(3) In addition, we own royalty interests in approximately 135 natural gas wells in the Appalachian Basin.
(4) In addition, we own royalty interests in approximately 111 oil wells in the Illinois Basin.
Substantially all of the undeveloped leases summarized in the preceding table will expire at the end of their respective primary terms unless the existing lease is renewed, we have commenced the necessary operations
required by the terms of the lease, or obtained actual production from acreage subject to the lease; in which event, the lease will remain in effect until the cessation of production.
The following table sets forth, for our continuing operations, the gross and net acres of undeveloped land subject to leases summarized in the preceding table that will expire during the periods indicated:
Drilling Results
The following table summarizes our drilling activity for the past three years. Gross wells reflect the sum of all wells in which we own an interest. Net wells reflect the sum of our working interests in gross wells. All of our drilling activities are conducted on a contract basis by independent drilling contractors. We own four workover rigs which are used in our Illinois Basin operations. We do not own any drilling equipment.
Does not include wells drilled for our ASP project.
Success ratio is calculated by dividing the total successful wells drilled, less any wells awaiting completion as of December 31, 2010, divided by the total wells drilled, less any wells awaiting completion as of December 31, 2010. As of December 31, 2010, we had 21.0 gross (13.1 net) wells awaiting completion related to wells drilled in 2010. These wells primarily relate to active projects in the Appalachian and DJ Basin and are expected to be completed and producing in 2011.
Title to Properties
We believe that we have satisfactory title to all of our producing properties in accordance with generally accepted industry standards. As is customary in the industry, in the case of undeveloped properties, often minimal investigation of record title is made at the time of lease acquisition. A more comprehensive mineral title
opinion review, a topographic evaluation and infrastructure investigations are made before the consummation of an acquisition of producing properties and before commencement of drilling operations on undeveloped properties. Individual properties may be subject to burdens that we believe do not materially interfere with the use or affect the value of the properties. Burdens on properties may include:
•
customary royalty interests;
•
liens incident to operating agreements and for current taxes;
•
obligations or duties under applicable laws;
•
development obligations under oil and gas leases;
•
net profit interests;
•
overriding royalty interests;
•
non-surface occupancy leases; and
•
lessor consents to placement of wells.
ITEM 3.