ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
Glossary of Certain Terms
Ferralite. Limonitic laterite, sometimes pulverulent, mottled, with varied shades of black, yellow, brown and red. Often foliated, reflecting relict serpentinite textures. Thickness varies from a few meters to tens of meters, averaging near 8 meters. Main ore unit, consistently mineralized with good metal grades near the top where black manganese zones occur, moderate to low cobalt grades lower in the unit.
Ferricrete breccia. Beneath the Upper Laterite is a nearly ubiquitous horizon of iron-rich concretions, ranging in size from one or two centimeters across, to blocks larger than a meter across. The ferricrete breccia averages 6 to 8 meters thick, and was often divided into two or three units by project geologists. A unit can contain very high cobalt grades, particularly at the base.
Hectare. A land measurement. One hectare is equal to 100 square meters, or approximately 2.47 acres.
Hydrometallurgical processing. One of several metallurgical processes that uses water and other liquids for the leaching and recovery of soluble metals from ore.
Lateritic soil. A soil containing laterite, or any reddish tropical soil developed by intense tropical weathering.
Manganese precipitate. Manganese compounds produced by precipitation from leach solutions.
Mine Permit. Republic of Cameroon Mining Permit Decree, dated April 11, 2003.
Mining Convention. Mining Convention between The Republic of Cameroon and Geovic Cameroon, S.A., dated July 31, 2002.
Nickeliferous laterite deposit. A nickel-bearing laterite deposit, occurring beneath the cobalt-nickel deposit at the Nkamouna Project.
Proterozoic granite-gneiss-schist. Proterozoic age (Pre-Cambrian) rock units of igneous granite, metamorphic gneiss and schist, or the terrain found in the vicinity of the Nkamouna laterite deposits.
Serpentinite. Bedrock, olive green to dark green, may be fractured and fissile, with silica-filled fractures. Uniformly low metals grades except in rare cases where garnierite-like nickeliferous silicates fill fractures.
Tailings facility. A containment system comprised of a compacted, earthen structure or dike and a prepared basin area that is used to contain solid tailings and water from the mineral process.
Tailings disposal. A method for disposing of tailings, waste rejects, and water from a processing operation into the tailings facility.
Terrain or terrane. A term applied to a general geologic unit or grouping with no specific definition or formal designation.
Tonne. One metric tonne is 1000 kilograms, or 2,204.6 pounds.
Upper laterite. A purplish-red, highly magnetic, powdery clay-like soil. Ubiquitous, normally 4 to 8 m thick, except where removed by erosion at the borders of laterite plateaus.
Water table. The depth below the surface where the rocks are water saturated. Geovic recorded a water table depth in several test drill holes which varied from approximately 12 to approximately 25 meters below surface at the Nkamouna Project site.
Description of Mineral Projects
THE NKAMOUNA PROJECT
Much of the information in this section is summarized, compiled or extracted from the NI 43-101 Technical Report, Nkamouna and Mada Deposits, East Province of Cameroon, Africa, dated November 30, 2009 (the “Nkamouna Technical Report”) prepared for Geovic Mining by SRK Consulting (U.S.), Inc. (“SRK”). Information related to the historical estimated reserves is summarized and extracted from the Technical Report, Nkamouna Cobalt Project, Feasibility Study dated January 18, 2008 (the “2008 PAH Report”) prepared for Geovic Mining by Pincock Allen & Holt (“PAH”). SRK and PAH were and continue to be independent from the Company. These Technical Reports were prepared in accordance with the requirements of NI 43-101.
Portions of the following information are based on assumptions, qualifications and procedures which are set out only in the full Nkamouna Technical Reports or 2008 PAH Report (the “Technical Reports”), as the case may be. We have omitted much of the background information that is included in the Technical Reports. For a complete description of assumptions, qualifications and procedures associated with the following information and for additional details about the findings of SRK and PAH, reference should be made to the full text of the Nkamouna Technical Report and 2008 PAH Report, both of which are available electronically from the Company’s website at www.geovic.net and on SEDAR at www.sedar.com. References to “Geovic” in this Item 2 “Properties” include the Company and GeoCam, where applicable.
The Company and GeoCam are currently reviewing and evaluating all significant refining and metallurgical aspects of the Nkamouna Project with the aim to improve technical and economic performance. The Company expects the FSU to be completed by third quarter 2010 that it will contain a review of an updated mine plan and estimated construction and capital costs, operating expenses and future cash flow from mining operations at the Nkamouna Project.
Project Description and Location
Geovic, through its 60% owned subsidiary GeoCam, has exclusive rights to several large cobalt-nickel laterite deposits in Cameroon (the “Cameroon Properties”). There are seven laterite plateaus included in the Cameroon Properties (collectively, the “Plateaus”). The seven Plateaus aggregate approximately 337 square kilometers within the 1,250 square kilometer Mine Permit area. The Plateaus are (clockwise) Nkamouna, Mada, Rapodjombo, North Mang, South Mang, Messea and Kondong.
The mineral rights are held by GeoCam under the Mine Permit and administered under the Mining Convention. The Mine Permit boundary is shown in Figure 2. The Plateaus within the Cameroon Properties constitute the known mineralized or potentially mineralized terrain within the Mine Permit, which is designated as “mineral exclusive lands.” The Nkamouna and Mada areas are the subject of the Technical Reports. The Nkamouna (pronounced Ka-moon-ah) and Mada deposits (together the “Nkamouna Project,” to be mined first) are located in southeastern Cameroon, (Figure 1). approximately 640 road kilometers east of the port city of Douala and 400 road kilometers east of the capital of Yaounde. The Mada deposit is contiguous and north of the Nkamouna deposit.
The Cameroon Properties are located in the Haut Nyong Division of the East Province. Nkamouna, Mada and the other laterite plateaus (except Kondong) lie within the Lomie Subdivision. The two deposits are two of the seven separately-named Plateaus that form a crescent-shaped array extending 80 kilometers north-south and 45 kilometers east-west (Figure 2).
The boundary of the Mining Permit has been surveyed by Global Positioning Satellite (GPS) carried out by a certified government surveyor. The irregular 18-corner polygon-shaped Mine Permit area is monumented with red painted cement markers that stand about 1m high and are described in the Presidential Degree authorizing the Mining Permit. The Mining Permit, the main operating permit for the proposed commercial GeoCam mining and processing activities, covers a total surface of 1,250 square kilometers which includes approximately 337 square kilometers of mineralized lands.
Most inhabitants of the region practice subsistence agriculture (cassava, yams, plantains, bananas, some maize and taro) and supplement their diets with animal protein (bush meat) procured by hunters. The latter include monkeys, duikers (forest antelope), pangolin, and certain protected species, as well as snakes and birds. The settled people mainly live in villages along the existing network of unimproved roads. In addition, there are semi-nomadic forest people of slight stature (pygmies) who live in shifting settlements in the forest, in roadside encampments and also in established villages. In the vicinity of the project area, the forest people are referred to as “Baka”, while the settlers are referred to as “Bantu.” All speak languages of the Bantu linguistic family, and are racially indistinguishable except by stature. The dominant languages in the project area are Dzime (spoken by settled Africans) and Baka. French is nearly universal among adults, and some speak a little English since Cameroon is officially bilingual in French and English.
General geographic coordinates for the Nkamouna and Mada project area are approximately: Longitude N-3º 20´ and Latitude E-13º 50´.
Figure 1: General Location Map for the Nkamouna Cobalt Project
Figure 2: Location of Laterites and Mining Permit Boundary
Fifty-nine percent of the Eastern Province, where the Nkamouna Project is situated, is dominated by forests zoned “multiple-use.” Over 64 logging concessions are designated in the province surrounding GeoCam’s Mine Permit area. A significant portion of the Province is also dedicated to protected forests, wildlife reserves and general “evergreen forest” habitat (22%) that are located well away from planned operations. A small proportion of the district is zoned for mineral development (1.6%), of which includes the Mine Permit area (0.35%). Indigenous community lands dominated by subsistence gardening and “community forest” developments form the remainder of the district lands which covers about 18% of the province. These lands are located principally along the main access routes developed when the province was first opened to plantation farming in the late 19th Century. All planned mine development activity will be in logged over areas and are exclusive of “primary forest” designations. GeoCam’s mining operations will result in partial deforestation during the mining phase, which will represent less than 0.5% of the annual deforested area within the region.
The Mining Convention was awarded in 2002 by the Ministry of Mines, Water, and Power of the Republic of Cameroon. The Mining Permit was issued in 2003 and grants GeoCam the exclusive rights to exploit the deposits within the Permit area, and to commence mining activities within four years, a period which has been extended. The Mining Permit will remain in force for the duration of the mineable resource and has an initial term of 25 years. The Mining Permit and Mining Convention are renewable every 10 years thereafter until the depletion of resources. Specific sites that will be impacted by mining and mine related activities are being permitted under a government-prescribed process and will have “site specific” environmental plans designed and approved by governing agencies prior to mining. This inventory, valuation and registration process requires local government approval, following a review of each site by district leaders.
A tailings storage area was designed as part of the Feasibility Study by Washington Group International (WGI) in 2007. The tailings portion of the WGI report was updated in the 2008 OS. This tailings storage area is located on the North side of the process plant location and encompasses the Napene Creek drainage.
As part of the mining operation a landfill will be developed in the backfilled pit and permitted in accordance with all governmental requirements.
The principal remaining permits required by GeoCam before the initiation of construction at Nkamouna include finalization of land leases for certain development sites. The land lease will be registered and issued to GeoCam for the lease cost and compensation for the loss of alternative resources. GeoCam will have the right to occupy, build roads, remove vegetation and mine and process cobalt, nickel and associated substances covered in the Mining Convention once the land lease is finalized, in accordance with the Mining Convention.
Geovic, acting on behalf of GeoCam, completed a draft Environmental and Social Assessment (“ESA”) and related documents in 2004. Based on anticipated locations of mining, ore processing, transportation, administration and employee housing operations, Geovic identified environmental safeguards that will be included in the construction and operation of the Nkamouna Project. The ESA included undertakings regarding water and regional habitat protection, mitigation of social impacts and future remediation of mined areas. Geovic completed the ESA in 2006 and GeoCam submitted the ESA and related documents to the Government of Cameroon. GeoCam completed 16 public hearings on the environmental aspects of the project in Cameroon. On May 29, 2007, the Ministry of Environment and Protection of Nature of the Republic of Cameroon approved the ESA and issued a Certificate of Environmental Compliance with respect to GeoCam’s March 2007 revisions to the ESA, thereby providing the necessary environmental approval to advance the Nkamouna Project in the manner described in the ESA.
Permits
All environmental permits necessary to construct and operate the project had been received by the end of 2008. The Company expects that GeoCam will update the environmental study and obtain an extension of the Certificate of Environmental Compliance prior to the end of the present three year term.
Principal legislative, regulatory and policy considerations relating to the Nkamouna Project are as follows:
A) Environmental Protection: Law No. 96/12 relating to environmental management outlines the general legal framework for environmental management in Cameroon. The law requires that any development must carry out an “impact assessment study.” The new mining code specifies that bonds are required before mine development can commence. The project’s proposed environmental mitigation and rehabilitation practices are reviewed once every four years to determine if the bond is sufficient to cover annual impacts caused by mining activities. The bond is based on an estimated annual cost of environmental impact mitigation of disturbed sites.
B) Law 94/01(Decree No. 94/436) pertains to forest developments. Article 9 prescribes that cutting trees in a state forest can be performed only after an impact study has been conducted. This study will be carried out as part of Geovic’s “site specific” environmental impact assessment report and environmental rehabilitation plan.
C) Law No. 81-13 regulates fishing, hunting and the issuance of related licenses. Also, the law controls the possession or trade in wild animals and trophy hunting and provides for the protection of endangered species. Enforcement measures and penalties are defined in this law, as described in the Geovic environmental plan.
D) Law No. 89/027 addresses specific waste disposal regulations. It pertains to storage, transportation and disposal of hazardous waste. Businesses must declare the volumes and nature of each waste product and ensure elimination of waste without undue risk to people and the environment.
E) Law 84/13 regulates water resources. The government manages and protects state waters such as rivers, lakes and groundwater. Non-state waters include spring, well and drill holes not used by the public, and rainwater falling on private land or collected artificially from roof systems. The use of water for commercial purposes may be sold by the State authority and is subject to permitting, exploitation and conservation taxes.
F) Decree No. 85/758 regulates water use by committee. This committee provides advice in implementing the water code that will include issues such as inventory, conservation, protection, use, effluent treatment and taxation.
Taxes and Royalties
Among other specific benefits, GeoCam’s Strategic Enterprise Regime awarded on December 16, 2002, provides a 50% reduction to these two tax rates for five years during the installation phase, plus 12 years during the first 17 years of the exploitation phase. Dividend tax is based on cash flow after the initial capital is repaid. Pursuant to provisions in the Strategic Enterprise Regime, 25% of the base salaries and wages paid to Cameroonian employees are credited to GeoCam to further reduce taxable income and provide incentives to employ local workers.
Article 6 of the Mining Permit commits GeoCam to “provide the neighboring population with social, sports, education and health infrastructure to promote their well-being”.
Article 9 of the Mining Permit requires GeoCam to provide for a 2.5% caution fee applied to the capital investment only. In addition, Article 144 of the Mining Code now in effect calls for an ad valorem tax of 2.5% on metals. This is treated as a production tax expense and will reduce net income for income tax purposes.
Based on interpretations of the Strategic Enterprise Regime by Geovic and its Cameroonian attorneys, value-added taxes will not be applied to Geovic’s operations, at least until mine construction begins. Under the Mining Permit, there is no royalty.
Accessibility, Climate, Local Resources, Infrastructure, And Physiography
The closest town to the Nkamouna Project site is Lomie, at approximately 26 kilometers to the west-southwest. The closest railroad transport to the Project is at the town of Belabo, at a distance of approximately 250 kilometers. Transportation from Yaoundé to the Project is by paved highway to Ayos, improved public road to Abong Mbang and private logging roads or public roads to the Nkamouna Project site. International airports and modern telecommunication facilities exist at Yaoundé and Douala. Suitable shipping and receiving facilities exist at the international seaport of Douala. The 40 kilometer road from Lomie to the site of the GeoCam field camp supports heavy log and lumber transports, as does the road from the field camp to the project site. Driving from Yaoundé to the Nkamouna Project takes approximately 7 hours.
Lomie is the Subdivision administrative center that hosts the Nkamouna Project and has been the staging area for Geovic’s activities. Lomie has about 3,500 inhabitants, a limited local electrical supply, and very basic services and supplies. There is new telephone service, but no airstrip or approved heliport, and only rudimentary medical facilities. Geovic’s field operations are based from the Kongo Camp, a fully-contained compound near the village of Kongo. The compound has adequate working and sleeping quarters, a diesel generator, diesel fuel storage, a kitchen and dining area with refrigerators, repair shop and sample preparation and storage facilities, many of which were upgraded or expanded by GeoCam in 2008.
The economy of Lomie is largely undeveloped, except for a large sawmill and surrounding timber harvesting operations, and small local businesses and government agencies. Lomie’s municipality has provided diesel electric power since 1997. Lomie is also the site of a number of domestic and international non-governmental organizations that monitor the 1.3 million acre World Heritage Dja Biosphere reserve and other reserves in the region.
The regional climate is classified as an “Equatorial Guinea” sub-type characterized by two main seasonal types, namely the “main wet” season and “main dry” season, and two minor seasonal types designated as “mini wet” and “mini dry.” The site is located on the northwestern margin of the Congo River tropical zone. The annual maximum monthly temperature ranges from 24° to 33° centigrade and generally do not fall below 18° centigrade.
The average annual precipitation is approximately 1,580 millimeters (62.2 inches) with high humidity and evaporation rates. The main wet season occurs between September and early November, and the main dry season occurs from November to May. The mini wet season lasts about eight weeks in March to May, and the mini dry season extends from June to mid-September. Limited amounts of rainfall occur throughout the year, except during the months of December and January, which are typically dry. Average monthly evaporation rates exceed rainfall during the two dry seasons. The prevailing wind direction is from the south and southwest, and averages less than 4-kilometers per hour and is commonly undetectable beneath the tree canopy near the Nkamouna Project site. The operating season is year-round.
Consultants to GeoCam concluded that the water balance for the planned Napene Creek tailings storage facility (“NCTSF”) at Nkamouna Project will operate in a water deficit condition. Diversion ditches could be incorporated to divert water around the facility or into the facility depending on the water needs at the time. Additional requirements regarding water quality and potential uses or discharges will be finalized based on the results of additional waste characterization during the detail engineering phase of the project.
Abundant water is available from shallow wells to be completed in the Edje River floodplain; however, much of the process water will be recycled from the NCTSF. Mining, processing and housing facilities will each be provided with sewage collection and treatment systems.
To support the mining and milling operations at Nkamouna, a number of ancillary facilities will be required. These include energy generation, a mobile equipment maintenance shop, loading and staging areas and facilities, warehouses, reagent storage buildings, laboratory, steam plant, and administration offices.
In addition to the Kongo compound, a temporary construction camp will be installed and used until permanent housing can be constructed to meet project operating requirements. On-site accommodations will be provided for expatriate staff. Housing and other community assistance will be provided to local employees, who will be drawn mostly from nearby villages.
The central part of the Nkamouna area is dominated by a series of rolling upland plateaus that are isolated by several river systems that feed into the main Congo River drainage basin. Elevations in the province range from about 450 meters along the lower Dja River to 927 meters at Mount Guimbiri, located east of Abong Mbang. The local upland plateau in the vicinity of the Nkamouna Project mine site presents an elevation of about 700 meters.
The Nkamouna Project is relatively flat and has an average depth of 16 meters. Much of the Nkamouna deposits are situated down slope from the process plant site and with a natural grade of approximately 5% with upper elevations around 760 meters and lower elevations near 610 meters. The Nkamouna deposit is a crescent shape about 4 kilometers from east to west and 2 kilometers from north to south. The process plant site is adjacent to the mine site and near the top of a saddle at an approximate elevation of 700 meters.
The existing exploration camp is located 5 kilometers from the proposed mining activities whereas the expected final camp site is located centrally in the Nkamouna area.
Currently all power is generated on site. It is expected that the power supply for the overall project will be supplied by both diesel powered gensets and a fuel oil power plant.
Well water is currently being used for potable water. A number of boreholes were sited around the project area where housing or other facilities requiring potable water will be installed. Water from the boreholes was tested and meets minimal standards for potable water.
History
The Nkamouna and Mada deposits are contiguous zones, and together comprise an enriched cobalt-nickel-manganese-iron laterite deposit located within an extensive mineral province in southeastern Cameroon, Africa. Nkamouna and several other nickeliferous laterite deposits in southeast Cameroon were first discovered and investigated by the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) during 1981-1986, in a cooperative project with the Cameroon Ministry of Mines, Water and Energy to evaluate mineral potential in southeastern Cameroon (UNDP Project CMR/81/005). Following a regional stream sediment geochemical survey which indicated the likely presence of laterite nickel mineralization, the UNDP project drilled eleven core holes in the Nkamouna area, which was the most accessible laterite area at that time. Several of the UNDP holes at Nkamouna intersected laterite and saprolite with interesting nickel and cobalt values. The first hole, KG-S-1, traversed 56 meters of lateritic profile and fresh serpentinite, with nickel values up to 1.00% and cobalt to values up to 0.19%. Due to the remote location and the low nickel prices at the time, the discovery did not draw much attention.
No further exploration took place on the property until William Buckovic, founder of Geovic and GeoCam, became aware of the nickel discovery in 1988, subsequent to submitting a proposal in 1986 to explore for minerals to the Cameroon Ministry of Mines. No recorded exploration or mining had taken place on the property since the UNDP work. After assaying samples he was able to obtain from the area, Buckovic noted in 1994 the higher than typical cobalt to nickel ratio that characterizes the Cameroon deposits. This high ratio was confirmed by the assay results from the UN coring program. Buckovic was also aware of recent advances in Australia and elsewhere in the hydrometallurgical processing of previously sub-economic nickel laterite deposits. As a result, in 1995 he helped form a new company, GeoCam, to investigate this unusual but potentially promising occurrence.
A government-issued Prospecting License covering 19,600 square kilometers was granted in 1995. In 1999, an Exploration Permit, PDR 67, was granted on a reduced area of 4,876 square kilometers. A Mining Convention was entered into between GeoCam and the Republic of Cameroon in 2002. In 2003, Mine Permit 33 was issued
by decree granting an exclusive right to GeoCam to exploit the deposits within the permitted 1,250 square kilometers area. GeoCam’s initial program was based entirely on manually dug test pits, and later incorporated drilling and limited trenching. The program began at Nkamouna and was later extended to other laterite plateaus, which were identified by satellite images and air photos. Geologists from the Cameroon Ministry of Mines, Water and Energy participated in the work to provide government oversight as well as training.
By 2004, GeoCam had largely completed the reconnaissance sampling and had undertaken pitting and drilling patterns of varying densities at Nkamouna where access was greater due to recent logging operations, with an eye toward defining deposit parameters for an eventual feasibility study. Between 1995 and 2003, Geovic/GeoCam carried out extensive pitting at Mada. During the period 2005-2009, GeoCam completed significant infill drilling and pitting at both the Nkamouna and Mada deposits.
Geology Setting
Regional Geology
Southeastern Cameroon lies within a region of metamorphosed Proterozoic rocks ranging in age from 600 to 2,500 million years and extending across parts of several west-central African countries. In southeastern Cameroon, several assemblages of such metamorphic rocks have been mapped and named. Due to the metamorphosed nature of the rocks and poor exposures, there is some uncertainty in distinguishing and dating various lithologic units.
The Nkamouna/Mada project area is primarily underlain by rocks of the Intermediate Series, including the Mbalmayo-Bengbis “Series” or unit. These rocks are principally chloritic and sericitic schists and quartzites. Also included in the Intermediate Series are extensive metamorphosed felsic, mafic volcanic and volcaniclastic rocks. These rocks are post-Eburnean (i.e., younger than 1,800 million years) and are cut by basic dikes. The original depositional age of the sediments was probably 1,800 to 1,400 million years, with metamorphism to almandine-amphibolite facies occurring about 1,200 million years ago, likely coincident with the Kibaran Orogeny.
The schists and quartzites contain inliers of ultramafic rock, which were probably emplaced long after deposition of the original sedimentary rocks. Due to poor exposures, the contact relations are unclear, but the ultramafic bodies appear to be emplaced along north-trending regional fractures, which apparently allowed emplacement of ultramafic rocks of a deep-seated origin.
The region within a 300-kilometer radius of the Cameroon Properties Area in Cameroon, Gabon, Congo, and Central African Republic has few producing mineral deposits and few with near-term production potential. Most of this region of west-central Africa is underlain by Proterozoic granite-gneiss-schist terrains, broadly similar to the rocks in the Cameroon Properties area. Within the region, ultramafic rocks, the original source of the cobalt and nickel, are confined to the Nkamouna Project area. There has been no previous commercial production of minerals from the Cameroon Properties.
Property Geology
The cobalt-nickel deposits are hosted in residual laterites which have formed by prolonged tropical weathering of serpentinites. Large areas of mineralized laterite, each several square kilometers in extent, have been preserved on low-relief mesas or plateaus underlain by ultramafic rocks that stand above the surrounding dissected lowlands. Nkamouna and Mada are two such plateaus. Most of the plateaus are underlain by ultramafic rocks, with some areas of schist, phyllite, and quartzite. The surrounding lowlands are underlain by schists, phyllites, quartzites, and meta-volcanics of the Intermediate Series. The bedrock geology at the Nkamouna Project has been mapped by Geovic through a combination of natural exposures, soil mapping, and, most importantly, observation of weathered or fresh rock encountered in pits and drillholes. Mapping of detailed
structures, attitudes of foliation or fractures is generally not practical except in the deeper pits. Rock from pits, drillholes, and rare exposures indicate that the fresh underlying rock at Nkamouna is a pervasively-sheared serpentinite.
At the Nkamouna Project, petrographic evidence suggests that the parent rock to the serpentinite was probably a dunite (rock containing +90 percent olivine). Metasedimentary rocks (quartz-muscovite schist, phyllite, and quartzite) occupy the borders of the serpentinite, and also occur as inliers within the serpentinites. Locally, lateritic soils with schist fragments overlie serpentinite bedrock due to the gravity-induced creep of soils down-slope. The typical sequence of discernable horizons in the weathering profile at the Nkamouna Project is:organic soil at the surface, upper laterite, ferrecrete breccia, ferralite, silecrete, saprolite, serpentine bedrock.
Mineralization
The Cameroon laterite profiles, similar to those elsewhere in humid tropical environments, show a strong vertical zonation, which reflects the transition from unweathered host rock at the base, to highly-leached residues at the surface. The Cameroon laterites depart from the norm somewhat, in possessing two layers of iron-rich laterite, between which lies ferricrete breccia. The lower portion of the profile under the breccia includes the limonitic ferralite and underlying saprolite zones which are more typical of humid tropical laterite profiles.
Most of the economic mineralization in each deposit is in one interval containing about 1 meter of ferricrete breccia and 4 meters of ferralite. The ore types are characterized geologically by their mineral content, bulk composition, and texture, as described below. The deposit’s unusual concentration of the coarsely aggregated ore mineral asbolane is highly significant, as is the thick ferricrete breccia and abundant maghemite.
Of the minerals of economic interest in the Nkamouna and Mada laterites, most occur in the majority of nickel-cobalt laterites worldwide, in proportions which vary widely from one laterite horizon to another, and from one deposit to another. In general, these minerals occur at Nkamouna and Mada as fine-grained clay-like or concretionary masses, and are only occasionally identifiable as discretely visible mineral specimens. Of great significance is the size of the asbolane agglomerates and wad that host the cobalt and almost all of the manganese.
The key mineral in the Geovic deposits, which hosts the cobalt, most of the manganese, and a significant part of the nickel, is asbolane. Between one-third and one-half of the deposit’s nickel is hosted in asbolane. Asbolane is widespread in nickeliferous laterites, but elsewhere is usually present in very small amounts and is normally inconspicuous as black blebs on fractures. The asbolane occurrence at the Nkamouna Project is unusual in that it occurs as both discrete platy crystals and in larger and coarser crystal aggregates and fine-grained wad up to 5 cm in diameter, sometimes as concretion-like nodules with chromite and goethite. It also occurs as a fine intergrowth with chromium and iron oxides and hydroxides.
Asbolane is critical to the Nkamouna Project economics, because it occurs as coarser aggregates of microscopic crystals, the aggregates being separable by crushing and wet screening from the pulverulent iron-oxide minerals and clays. The resulting coarse fraction contains most of the cobalt and manganese, and a significant portion of the nickel in the raw material, which can be readily prepared into a significantly upgraded concentrate prior to processing.
Exploration
Nickelferous laterite deposits in southeast Cameroon were first discovered and investigated by the UNDP during 1981-1986, in a cooperative project with the Cameroon Ministry of Mines, Water and Energy (UNDP Project CMR/81/005). Following a regional stream sediment geochemical survey which indicated the likely presence of laterite nickel mineralization, the UNDP project drilled eleven core holes in the Nkamouna area, which was the most accessible laterite area at that time.
Several of the UNDP holes intersected laterite and saprolite with interesting nickel and cobalt values. Due to the remote location and the low nickel prices at the time, the discovery did not draw much attention.
The UNDP holes were undertaken several years prior to Geovic’s investigations. The drill apparatus, technical personnel, sampling procedures, and assaying practice were entirely different from those used subsequently by Geovic. Therefore, SRK is of the opinion that inclusion of the UNDP drillhole data is unwarranted for resource calculations. These 11 holes represent less than 1% of the total sample openings at Nkamouna. In any case, the sites of most of the UNDP holes were subsequently offset by gridded Geovic drillholes and pits, and the effective influence of the UNDP holes on resource tonnage calculations is believed to be negligible.
In mid-1995, GeoCam received a Prospecting Permit that covered 19,600 square kilometers. In January 1999, the Prospecting Permit was superseded with an Exploration Permit, PDR 67, which covered 4,876 square kilometers and specifically allowed exploration drilling. GeoCams’s initial exploration program was based entirely on manually-dug test pits, and subsequently incorporated drilling and limited trenching. The program began at Nkamouna and was later extended to the other laterite plateaus including Mada, which were targeted using satellite images and air photos. Geologists from the Cameroon Ministry of Mines, Water and Energy participated in the work to provide government oversight as well as training. GeoCam’s core-drilling program began in 1999, after many hundreds of pits had been completed. A total of 23 holes were drilled (NKM-21 to NKM-43) in the northeast part of West Nkamouna, on an approximate 100 meter grid.
In 2002, GeoCam imported an Australian-designed, truck-mounted machine. Holes drilled with this machine are referred to in GeoCam reports as “air core” holes, but intact core was not produced, and these holes are more accurately termed reverse-circulation drill holes. Reversecirculation holes were drilled between May 2002 and September 2003, when 176 holes (NKM 1010 to 1185, plus NKM-3.3) totaling 3,690 meters were completed at Nkamouna. Most of these holes were drilled as infill holes on a series of EW lines which were sampled by pitting, generally at distances greater than 100m between drillholes. Several of these were twins (within 5 meters) of existing pits, and several others were later twinned by pits sunk on the drillhole collar. Twenty-two holes were drilled on a tight grid of approximately 15 x 15 meters in West Nkamouna, to test the short-term variability between holes.
A Mining Convention was signed on July 31, 2002 by the Ministry of Mines, Water, and Power of the Republic of Cameroon that defined the general, legal, financial, tax, economic, administrative, customs, social, land and environmental conditions under which GeoCam shall undertake the mining of cobalt, nickel, and their associated substances within GeoCam’s Exploration Permit area. On April 11, 2003, Mining Permit No. 33 which replaced the Exploration Permit was issued by Presidential decree granting an exclusive right to GeoCam to exploit the deposits, and the total area was reduced to 1,250 square kilometers, which included approximately 337 square kilometers of cobalt-nickel mineralized lands. Geovic’s participation in the Mining Permit holder GeoCam is 60% direct corporate holding by Geovic, Ltd. In addition, another 0.5% is held by Geovic’s President William Buckovic. The 39.5% balance is currently held by SNI, a Cameroon government investment corporation.
By 2004, GeoCam had largely completed the reconnaissance sampling and had undertaken pitting and drilling programs of varying densities at Nkamouna, where access was less restricted due to recent logging operations, in order to define deposit parameters for an eventual preliminary feasibility study. In 2006, Geovic completed a program adding five new test pits and deepening other test pits adding over 730 meters of additional sampling in preparation for the final feasibility study.
In 2002 GeoCam contracted with a local survey and civil engineering company in Yaounde (SCET) to provide digital topography for a 12 square kilometers area mapped in detail at Nkamouna. Map survey points are accurate to within 1centimeter (X, Y, and Z) and are contoured at 1 and 2 meter intervals. All pits and drillholes are plotted on this topographic map base. EGIS who later purchased SCET still provides the bulk of surveying required by GeoCam and completed on the surveying in the Mada resource area in 2008 and 2009.
During 2008 and 2009, GeoCam conducted significant infill and step out drilling and pitting in both the Nkamouna and Mada areas, including an additional 975 drill holes at Nkamouna and 1,012 drill holes at Mada. These new data form the basis for the updated mineralized material estimates and the updated mineral reserve estimates that are expected later in 2010.
The geological logging scheme utilized for past and current drill programs is consistent with the stratigraphic units. The logging scheme has evolved over the history of GeoCam’s work since 1995. All logging was carried out at the pit or drill site by qualified geologists, using standardized logging forms.
Drilling
Geovic’s exploration initially was based entirely on manually-dug test pits, and later incorporated drilling and limited trenching. The program began at Nkamouna and was later extended to Mada and the other Plateaus, which were identified by satellite images and air photos.
Because the Nkamouna deposits are secondary, which represent the decomposition products of bedrock, they present the data-generation issues which are typical of laterites: sampling of intermixed material which ranges from very soft to very hard, and which varies greatly in metal grade from one particle to the next, especially in the ferricrete breccia lithologies.
Until the 2008 drilling program, most of the sampling at Nkamouna, and nearly all sampling in the other deposit areas, had been by pitting, with a lesser amount from drilling. In the Nkamouna and Mada areas more than 1,800 pits were hand dug through 2007. Geologists from the Cameroon Ministry of Mines, Water and Energy participated in the work to provide government oversight as well as training. In 1999 a total of 23 core drill holes were drilled in the northeast part of West Nkamouna, on an approximate 100-meter grid. The maximum depth reached was 33 meters, with an average hole depth of 26.1 meters, for a total of 600 meters drilled. A reverse-circulation drill was used between May 2002 and September 2003, when 176 holes totaling 3,690.25 meters were drilled at Nkamouna.
GeoCam completed an extensive exploratory drilling program in the Nkamouna, Mada and Rapodjombo deposits in 2008. GeoCam has received assay and other testing results from the 2,054 drill holes totaling 54,900 meters completed and 48,095 samples collected which were analyzed by SRK in completing the Nkamouna Technical Report.
Pit Data
A significant proportion of Geovic’s assay sampling results (~46%) have been derived from hand-dug pits. Geovic has historically referred to the test pits as both “pits” or “shafts.” In this report, SRK uses the term “pits,” which is more customary in laterite exploration, and avoids the impression that they are machine-dug openings of great depth (i.e., “shafts”). In the Nkamouna and Mada areas, GeoCam has excavated 1,898 pits. The pit sampling program continued during drier weather in East Nkamouna, the area east of the Kongo-Ndu road, until September 2004. Five additional pits were dug in 2006, and an additional 302 pits were dug at Nkamouna (225) and at Mada (77) during the 2008-2009 field season. The density of pitting varies from about 50 x 50 meters to 150 x 200 meters, but is not uniformly gridded.
Trench Data
Two trenches have been excavated at Nkamouna. Dug by hand, the first trench is up to 8.5m deep, has a 5m north-to-south cross trench in the middle and extends 20 meters east from the site of Pit 923. The trench is located on the western edge of the Nkamouna plateau, west of some natural exposures of ferricrete, at a location where the Upper Limonite appears to have been removed by erosion. Most of the trench exposes only ferricrete, and does not reach adequate depth to expose the ferralite or saprolite. The trench site was selected by Geovic primarily to determine whether blasting will be necessary in the ferricrete. The trench was thoroughly channel-sampled and assayed by Geovic, but these results were not used in the resource estimation.
The second trench was excavated between January and May of 2007 in the SE part of Nkamouna near Pits 989, 1251, 1268 and 1269. This trench was excavated with bulldozers and included deepening by hand dug pits. SRK Consulting visited this trench during the 2009 site visit, and assay results from this trench have been reviewed. Selected grab samples were also collected from this trench during the site visit, and were subsequently manually upgraded by site personnel as a demonstration of the physical upgrading process. These data from the second trench have not been utilized in the resource estimation process.
Drillhole Data
United Nations Drillholes.
The first documented samples taken at Nkamouna were the eleven holes drilled by the UNDP in the mid 1980’s. The UNDP used a J.K. Smit Model 300 diamond-drill rig. SRK has not examined the original drill core or logs from these initial 11 holes. The UNDP holes were undertaken several years prior to Geovic’s investigations. The drill apparatus, technical personnel, sampling procedures, and assaying practice were different from those used subsequently by Geovic, and the protocols utilized by UNDP with regard to quality assurance/quality control were not necessarily to industry accepted guidelines.
Geovic Core Drillholes.
Subsequent to the UNDP holes, no further drilling was undertaken at Nkamouna until Geovic’s core-drilling program in 1999, after many hundreds of test pits had been completed and an exploration permit was obtained over the mineralized areas. The first rig utilized was a trailer-mounted 20hp core drill which could be manually manoeuvred along forest trails to minimize environmental impacts in prospective areas. A total of 23 holes were drilled (NKM-21 to NKM-43) in the northeast part of West Nkamouna, on an approximate 100 meter spaced grid. The maximum depth drilled was 33 meters, with an average hole depth of 26.1 meters, for a total of 600 meters.
Recovery was generally good. In the limonite horizons (upper and lower), core recovery was 90% on average, and ranged between 40 and 90% in the breccias. In the saprolite, core recovery was consistently below 70% with values as low as 30% recorded in zones containing serpentinite fragments. As most of the potentially economically-mineralized material at Nkamouna and Mada is located within Lower Ferricrete breccia and ferralite zones, core recovery in these zones of interest generally exceeds an average of 88%.
Reverse-Circulation Drillholes.
In 2002, Geovic imported an Australian-designed, truck-mounted reverse-circulation machine. Holes drilled with this machine are referred to in historic GeoCam reports as “air core” holes, only drill cuttings are produced, and the drilling methods are most accurately described as reverse circulation drilling. This drilling rig uses three chisel-type or finger-type tungsten carbide bits to cut the laterite, and recovers material by air or water flushing through the inner pipe of a double-walled reverse circulation recovery system, from the bit to the surface. The outer tube has an external diameter of 74.4 millimeters, while the inner tube has an internal diameter of 36.6 millimeters. The drill uses compressed air or water with Baroid drilling mud at 150 pounds per square inch pressure as the drilling fluid. Water was used to flush the drill stem and bit while samples were collected at the cyclone using one-meter sample runs. The drill pipe used is in conventional 3 meters lengths. A two-person drill crew and three labour assistants attend the drill, supervised by a geologist. Setup time and tear-down time is 5 to 10 minutes. A 30 meter hole can typically be drilled in 2 hours, when no drilling difficulty is encountered.
The reverse-circulation drill was used between May 2002 and September 2003, when 176 holes (NKM 1,010 to 1,185, plus NKM-3.3) totaling 3,690.25 meters were drilled at Nkamouna. Most of these holes were drilled as fill-in holes on a series of lines which had already been sample by pitting, generally at distances greater than 100 meters between drillholes. Several of these were twins (within 5 meters) of previous pits, and several others were later twinned by test pits sunk on the drillhole collar. About 20 holes were drilled on a tight grid of approximately 15 x 15 meters in West Nkamouna, to test the short-range variability from one hole to the next. The drill rig is currently stored at the Kongo Camp of GeoCam.
Drilling during the period 2004-2009 was conducted using identical drilling equipment to previous programs, targeting infill holes at Nkamouna and infill/step-out holes at Mada.
Drilling-Interpretation
SRK Consulting has conducted a detailed review of all historic and current drilling and pitting program data, and is of the opinion that the methodology used to collect the samples and that the current sample spacing is adequate for use in resource estimation. SRK Consulting notes that the historic core sample analyses conducted by GeoCam are adequate, but is of the opinion that the larger sample sizes afforded by pit and reverse circulation samples are more appropriate, given the coarse grain size and highly variable distribution of asbolane, which is the mineral of economic significance in the Nkamouna and Mada deposits.
Sampling and Analysis
GeoCam maintains a sample-preparation facility at the Kongo Camp, where samples are prepared for assay. Most of the early sample points were exposed and sampled by test pits, dug using simple hand tools by local labor crews. SRK reviewed the pre-2008 sampling procedures and the 2008-2009 procedures in detail.
Sample intervals in pits generally varied between 0.5 and 1.65 meters. Each interval was logged by color and texture, and by mineralogy where noted. All samples were analyzed for nickel, cobalt, manganese, chromium, copper, zinc, lead and MgO. Composites representing 5 to 10 meters were analyzed for Fe2O3.
SRK and PAH found that Geovic personnel, and contractors paid close attention to sampling and sample-processing techniques, and have varied the techniques from time to time, based on careful analysis of results, including comparisons between different methods. Geovic believes that collection and handling of samples met or exceeded industry standards for laterite projects, and that any limitations on precision and accuracy of samples are those limitations inherent in the laterite deposits themselves and in assaying technology.
Altogether, more than 56,000 Nkamouna, Mada and Rapodjumbo samples were assayed for cobalt and nickel during 1995-2009. Many of these samples were also assayed for manganese and various other appropriate methods were used for occasional analyses of 34 other elements (Pb, Zn, Cu, Cr, V, Mg, Al, Sc, Zr, MgO, SiO2, etc.) for bulk samples and other specialty samples.
Security of Samples
Various inter-laboratory checks were undertaken by Geovic on behalf of GeoCam throughout the sampling phase of the project. Geovic undertook a comprehensive program of comparing second sample comparisons from Nkamouna. The pairs of samples extracted from the same sample intervals showed a high degree of correlation for cobalt, nickel and manganese, providing confidence in the ability to generate reproducible assay results from similar sample material.
Sampling
GeoCam maintains a sample-preparation facility at the Kongo Camp, where samples from drill holes and pits are prepared by GeoCam employees for assay. SRK reviewed the sample preparation procedures in detail.
Upon arrival from the field in polyethylene woven bags, the samples are stored in a sheltered location until processed. As each bag was opened, the sample was placed in a steel tray for drying, and an aluminum tag bearing the sample information on the sample bag placed on the tray. After drying in a wood fired oven, the sample was quartered and placed in a clearly labeled plastic bag, with the sample location and interval number recorded. Another aluminum tag was prepared which accompanied the sample, in transit to the U.S. The aluminum tag placed in the steel tray before oven drying remained with the control sample on the shelves in the storage facility at the Kongo Camp. All samples are clearly labeled as organized.
Upon removal from the oven and cooling, each sample was visually inspected for the presence of oversize material (coarser than approximately 2 centimeters). Oversize material was manually crushed in a mortar and pestle and returned to the sample tray. At this point, the dried sample was inspected again by a geologist to ensure that the on-site logging did not miss important geological features due to excessive drilling mud or poor lighting. The sample was then split in a Jones-type riffle splitter with openings measuring 10 millimeters. Normally a 200 gram dried sample was collected for ferralite and a 500 gram sample for breccia and bagged for shipment to the assay lab. The shipment of samples followed industry accepted procedures regarding chain of custody. Samples were shipped by vehicle to GeoCam’s office in Yaoundé, the capital of Cameroon, where they were delivered to a common carrier for air-freighting to North America.
SRK reviewed the sampling procedures that Geovic personnel and Mintec, Inc. implemented during the previous and current drilling and pitting programs and concluded that the collection and handling of samples met or exceeded industry standards.
Assaying
During the period 2003-2009, all samples were shipped to Actlabs (formerly ACTLABS-Skyline), Tucson, Arizona, for analysis.
Quality Control
The samples assayed by Actlabs were submitted to both Actlabs’ and Geovic’s independent QA/QC checks. The use of second splits and sample standards are universally recognized methods to provide confidence in the assaying reliability.
The Actlabs laboratory runs assay batches of 24 prepared pulp samples, comprising 20 samples plus repeats on the 1st and 20th samples of each batch, in addition to two in-house standards. One sample per client’s submitted batch of 20 was reweighed along with both an in-house and a certified reference standard of known Co-Ni-Mn content. Actlabs internal checks allow for a maximum acceptable variance of 2% for duplicates and standards. Given its ISO and CAN-P-1579 certifications, Actlabs is required to have a suitable program in place for periodic round-robin inter-laboratory comparisons.
Historic Nkamouna Reserve Estimates
Mineable reserve estimates were made by PAH in the 2008 PAH Report and the information in this section is excerpted from the 2008 PAH Report. Geovic Mining expects that the FSU, which will contain a revised reserve estimate, a review of an updated mine plan, estimated construction and capital costs, operating expenses and future cash flow from mining operations at the Nkamouna Project, will be completed in the third quarter of 2010.
The Nkamouna deposit ore would be subjected to physical upgrading (PUG) consisting of crushing, attritioning and particle sizing. The PUG plant basically consists of a receiving hopper and two stages each of crushing, attritioning and particle classifying to produce a coarse, higher-grade concentrate, a low-grade middlings and fine tailings. The concentrate will be conveyed to a receiving bin at the process plant. As approximately 60% of the cobalt is concentrated in only 20.5% of the ore weight, the process plant size would be much smaller and financial performance would be dramatically improved when the ore is physically upgraded prior to final processing in the Metal Recovery Plant (MRP).
Economic evaluation criteria were based on supplying a fixed 2,000 tonnes ore per day (“tpd”) of product from the PUG plant to the process plant at an average of 1.87:1 Waste:Ore ratio. This yielded an average mine production rate of 23,000 tpd with approximately 8,000 tpd of ore, and a maximum of 28,000 tpd for equipment sizing and operating cost estimation.
A cutoff grade of 0.175% ferralite-equivalent cobalt was used by PAH to define the Nkamouna Mineral Reserves described in Table 1 below.
The mineral reserves presented in Table 1 are classified as a Proven plus Probable, and all are in the Nkamouna deposit. Reserve calculations are from the 2008 PAH Report using data then available (not including results of the 2008-2009 drill program). The historical reserves estimates are presented for reference purposes only and do not represent current reserves.
TABLE 1
Nkamouna
Mineral Reserve Statement
(1) The historic proven and probable mineral reserves for the Nkamouna Project were estimated in accordance with definitions set out in NI- 43-101 and in reliance on the 2008 PAH Report prepared by PAH under those regulations. We believe that the mineral reserves were estimated on a basis consistent with the definition of proven and probable reserves prescribed for use in the U.S. by the SEC and as set forth in Guide 7.
(2) The above estimate of reserves was completed at a time when GeoCam planned to produce cobalt, and nickel and manganese as finished products. GeoCam may initially produce a mixed Cobalt-Nickel sulfide product (MSP) and manganese carbonate from the mining and processing at the Nkamouna Project.
(3) We expect to increase the cutoff grade of cobalt in the ore we mine and process at the PUG plant and MRP at the Nkamouna Project from that used in the above estimates. Such an increase would reduce the reserves while accelerating the expected economic return from mining and processing.
(4) PAH used a cutoff grade of 0.175% ferralite equivalent cobalt, and a three year average price for the period ending October 2007 of $20.18 per pound of cobalt and $11.16 per pound of nickel.
Mineralized Material
This section describes the geologic modeling and the estimate of mineralized material for the Nkamouna and Mada deposits based on the Nkamouna Technical Report.
Nkamouna/Mada Geologic Model
Total mineralized material was calculated for the Nkamouna and Mada deposits using a three-dimensional block model to estimate cobalt, nickel, and manganese grade for individual blocks with dimensions of 10 by 10-meters horizontal by 1-meter vertical. In addition, lithology codes and ore classification codes were defined for each block. The estimation was done using Datamine Studio 3.0 geologic modeling software by Ore Reserves Engineering (“ORE”).
A top-of-mineralization, or “TOMI,” model was created by ORE so that the top of mineralization in each drill hole was at a constant elevation. The advantage of this model is that the optimum correlation between the metal grades is horizontal and the shape and continuity of the mineralization can be viewed directly on plan maps. This model also went through several iterations of editing/remodeling to remove inconsistencies in the data from shallow holes that did not penetrate the top of mineralization and from multiple pits and drill holes within a few meters of each other.
Basic statistics, using the TOMI model, showed that there are three cobalt grade populations, including low-grade (poorly mineralized), mid-grade (mineralized), and high-grade (strongly mineralized). Manganese was found to have grade distributions similar in shape, but higher grade than cobalt, consistent with the strong correlation between cobalt, manganese, and asbolane. Nickel appears to be much more evenly distributed than cobalt and manganese and was found to only have two grade zones, mid-grade (mineralized) and high-grade (strongly mineralized).
Grade zones were defined for each metal as closed shapes in plan maps in the unfolded model.
Basic statistics were run within the grade zones to confirm the grade distributions and variograms were run to confirm continuity of grades within the zones.
The mineralized material is summarized in Table 2 below. These estimates of mineralized material include the results of all prior drilling on the Nkamouna and Mada deposits through 2009.
Table 2
Nkamouna/Mada Mineralized Material Statement(1)
Note: Mineralized Material is not mineral reserves and do not have demonstrated economic viability.
(1) Prepared by SRK and included in the Nkamouna Technical Report. All figures have been rounded to reflect the relative accuracy of the estimates. Reported at cut-off grades of 0.12 and 0.23% cobalt contained within ferralite and breccia, respectively.
(2) This estimate is applicable to the Nkamouna and Mada deposits. The historical reserve estimate prepared by PAH and included as “Historical Mineral Reserves” in Table 1 is inclusive of the Nkamouna deposit and mineralized material previously included in the historical mineral reserves, which can no longer be classified as such under guidelines of N.I. 43-101, are included in this mineralized material estimate. Assumptions used for estimating the historical reserves in Table 1 are different than those used in the mineralized material estimate above.
(3) SRK has made no estimate of reserves at Nkamouna and Mada deposits. Any future estimate of reserves in included in the Nkamouna and Mada deposits based on the above information will be significantly different than the historical reserves described in Table 1.
“Mineralized material” as used in this report, although permissible under Guide 7, does not indicate “reserves” by SEC standards. Geovic cannot be certain that any part of these deposits will ever be confirmed or converted into Guide 7 compliant “reserves.” The reader is cautioned not to assume that all or any part of the mineralized material will ever be confirmed or converted into reserves or that mineralized material can be economically or legally extracted.
Markets and Metal Prices
Cobalt is a metal used in many diverse industrial and military applications with the leading uses in rechargeable batteries (approximately 21 percent)., and super-alloys (approximately 20 percent, principally for gas turbine engines). Cobalt is also used to make specialty magnets (7 percent); other alloys used for corrosion and wear resistance (16 percent); catalysts for the petroleum and chemical industries (11 percent); drying agents for paints, varnishes, and inks and adhesives for radial tires (9.5 percent); porcelain enamels, dyes and pigments (11 percent); and magnetic recording media (4.5 percent).
Cobalt Prices are published by Metal Bulletin (www.metalbulletin.com). Commencing February 22, 2010, cobalt began trading on the London Metal Exchange (LME).
Nickel is a principal metal traded on the LME and has total price transparency. Prices are quoted on the LME (www.lme.com) for 99.8 percent US Spot cathode nickel and cobalt.
The following table reflects the reported annual spot prices for cathodes for cobalt and nickel as reported by Metal Bulletin for Cobalt and London Metals Exchange for nickel for each of the last five years, and the last reported price in December 2009.
United States Mining Leases And Claims
We are also engaged in the strategic acquisition, exploration and development of other mineral properties to diversify our portfolio of mineral exploration and development opportunities. To that end, in 2007 and early 2008 we actively leased mineral properties and staked mining claims in the United States through our wholly-owned subsidiary, Geovic Energy.
Arizona Properties
Through geologic mapping and geochemical sampling, the Company identified several new areas of gold, uranium and other mineralization in the Whetstone Mountains, located approximately 40 miles southwest of Tucson, Arizona in 2007. Accordingly, the Company located 51 federal lode claims covering approximately 1,000 acres in the area of expected uranium-gold mineralization in the northern Whetstone Mountains in 2007. The pre-Cambrian hosted shear zones also appear to contain anomalous fluorite, copper and gold. Based upon its initial findings, the Company leased approximately 11.2 square miles of state of Arizona mineral lands in the vicinity of the gold occurrence.
The Whetstone Mountain area where the claims are located was previously explored for uranium in the 1970s and 1980s by Rocky Mountain Energy (Union Pacific Railroad) and Unocal (Union Oil Co of California). Mining claims and other mineral properties held by those entities were abandoned by 1990. The Company has discontinued uranium exploration activities in the area, but continues to explore for gold mineralization in the pre-Cambrian hosted structures. In late 2009 the Company conducted a broad surface sampling survey on and near controlled properties, and results are being evaluated.
Colorado/Wyoming Properties
We also targeted and in 2007 and 2008 acquired fee mineral leases over the known uranium deposits in the Denver-Cheyenne Basin of northeastern Colorado and southeastern Wyoming. These 10-year mineral leases cover approximately 15,500 acres believed to host historical uranium deposits at depths ranging from 120 feet to 600 feet below the surface. These deposits were evaluated by other operators in the 1970s and 1980s, including PowerCo, AMAX, Wyoming Minerals and Unocal. Through the leases it now holds, Geovic Energy has control over much of the known mineralized area in eastern Weld County, Colorado and Goshen County, Wyoming.
In 2008, we participated in a uranium claim staking venture in Sweetwater County, Wyoming and acquired an interest in 571 federal mining claims. We allowed these interests to expire in 2009, due primarily to declining uranium prices.
Until uranium prices declined significantly beginning in mid-2008, we intended to begin development-drilling programs to confirm mineralization present on these uranium properties, in preparation for establishing reserves. However, these plans have been deferred until more dependable commodity pricing can be expected. We now intend to seek third parties to join in future efforts to explore and develop our remaining uranium prospects.
As of March 1, 2010 we hold undeveloped interests in the following properties:
Undeveloped Uranium Fee Leases
Denver-Cheyenne Basin
Mining Claims-Undeveloped
State Mineral Exploration Permits and Leases
Other Activities
In 2009, we organized three subsidiary corporations, including Geovic Mineral Sands Corp. and one corporation in each of France and New Caledonia. In 2009, we commenced prospecting activities in New Caledonia.
ITEM 3.