ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
Asbolane. The key mineral in the Nkamouna and Mada deposits, which hosts the cobalt, most of the manganese and a little less than half the nickel.
Breccia. A zone composed of broken fragments of minerals or rock cemented together by a fine-grained matrix.
Ferralite. Limonitic laterite, sometimes pulverulent, mottled, with varied shades of black, yellow, brown and red. Often foliated, reflecting relict serpentinite textures. Thickness varies from a few meters to tens of meters, averaging near 8 meters. Main ore unit, consistently mineralized with good metal grades near the top where black manganese zones occur, moderate to low cobalt grades lower in the unit.
Ferricrete breccia. Beneath the upper laterite is a nearly ubiquitous horizon of iron-rich concretions, ranging in size from one or two centimeters across, to blocks larger than a meter across. The ferricrete breccia averages 6 to 8 meters thick, and was often divided into two or three units by project geologists. A unit can contain very high cobalt grades, particularly at the base.
Gangue. The commercially worthless material that surrounds, or is closely mixed with, a wanted mineral in an ore deposit.
Hydrometallurgical process. One of several metallurgical processes that uses water and other liquids, chemicals and reagents for the leaching and recovery of soluble metals from ore.
Laterite. Soil types rich in iron and aluminum, formed in hot and wet tropical areas. They develop by intensive and long-lasting weathering of the underlying parent rock.
Leach and Recovery Circuit. That part of the mineral processing facility that accomplishes the hydrometallurgical process.
Manganese precipitate. Manganese compounds produced by precipitation from leach solutions.
Mine Permit. Republic of Cameroon Mining Permit Decree dated April 11, 2003.
Mining Convention. Mining Convention between The Republic of Cameroon and Geovic Cameroon, S.A., dated July 31, 2002.
Physical upgrade (PUG) circuit. More commonly known as a wash plant, designed to use water to remove much of the gangue from the run of mine mineralized material before processing in the leach and recovery circuit.
Saprolite. A chemically weathered rock. Saprolites form in the lower zones of soil profiles and represent deep weathering of the bedrock surface.
Serpentinite. Bedrock, olive green to dark green, may be fractured and fissile, with silica-filled fractures. Uniformly low metals grades except in rare cases where garnierite-like nickeliferous silicates fill fractures.
Tailings storage facility. A containment system comprised of a compacted, earthen structure or dike and a prepared basin area that is used to contain solid tailings and water from the mineral beneficiation process.
Tailings disposal. A method for disposing of tailings, waste rejects, and water from a processing operation into the tailings facility.
Tonne. One metric tonne is 1000 kilograms, or 2,204.6 pounds.
Description of Mineral Projects
THE NKAMOUNA PROJECT
GeoCam received and published the Nkamouna Co-Ni-Mn Project Feasibility Study authored by Lycopodium with contributions by SRK Consulting (U.S.), Inc. (SRK), Knight Piésold and GeoCam (the Feasibility Study) in April 2011. Geovic then engaged SRK to prepare a Technical Report (the “2011 Technical Report”) for the Nkamouna and Mada Deposits, the Project, to meet the requirements of Canadian National Instrument 43-101 (NI 43-101) and for the further development and advancement of the Project. The information below is summarized from the Feasibility Study and the 2011 Technical Report and is compliant with SEC Industry Guide 7. Bret Swanson, BEng Mining, MAusIMM, MMSAQP of SRK and Brett Malcolm Crossley, BAS (Chemistry), MAusIMM, of Lycopodium served as Qualified Persons for the 2011 Technical Report
Property Description and Location
The Nkamouna and Mada deposits are located in southeastern Cameroon (Figure 1.), approximately 640 road kilometers east of the port city of Douala and 400 road kilometers east of the capital of Yaoundé, in the Haut Nyong Division, East Province. The deposits are adjacent to improved roads that have been constructed to provide access.
The Nkamouna and Mada deposits are two of seven separately named laterite plateaus forming a crescent-shaped array, which extends 80 km north to south and 45 km east to west. The irregularly shaped laterite plateaus lie within the 1,645 km2 boundary defined by the Mine Permit, within which GeoCam has exclusive right to mine up to 1,250 km2. The plateaus are Nkamouna, Mada, Rapodjombo, North Mang, South Mang, Messea and Kondong, and all are included within the Mine Permit area (Figure 2.).
The Nkamouna Cobalt-Nickel-Manganese Project includes mining the Nkamouna and Mada deposits utilizing open-cut mining methods, physical upgrading and hydrometallurgical processing and associated Project infrastructure at the Project site. GeoCam holds the Mining Permit. Most of the Mining Permit lands are zoned “mineral exclusive” lands, and assign exclusive rights to the cobalt, nickel and related materials within the Mining Permit to GeoCam.
Figure 1: General Location Map for the Nkamouna Project
Figure 2: Location of Mine Permit Boundary
Environmental and Social Initiatives
GeoCam has integrated anticipatory engineering and mitigation strategies with respect to social and environmental programs since beginning the exploration phase of the Project. Mining and production related facilities are planned to use industry proven and/or laboratory-demonstrated technologies that are considered industry best practices. Also, international requirements such as Equator Principles and International Finance Corporation (IFC) Performance Standards have guided the preparation of the Environmental and Social Assessment (ESA), and activities undertaken to preserve the health and safety of the workforce and local communities.
The following are the main potential environmental impacts of the Project:
•
Loss of natural flora and fauna habitats due to land clearance for mining activities and the construction of processing facilities and support infrastructure for the operations;
•
Alteration of land topography and form due to mining exploitation;
•
Increase in soil erosion due to soil grading and the construction of Project facilities;
•
Increase in metal and/or dissolved solid load in surface and ground water due to unexpected releases of process solutions or soil erosion;
•
Increase of illegal hunting activities due to population influx;
•
Dissemination of dust in the air due to intensive traffic of vehicles; and
•
Increase in job opportunities for local residents.
Geology
Southeastern Cameroon lies within a region of metamorphosed Proterozoic rocks ranging in age from 2,500 to 600 million years (My) and extending across parts of several west-central African countries. The Cameroon laterite profiles are similar to those observed elsewhere in humid tropical environments and show a strong vertical zonation, which reflects the transition from unweathered host rock at the base, to highly leached residues at the surface. The Cameroon laterites consist of two layers of iron-rich laterite separated by an iron-rich ferricrete breccia. The laterite under the breccia includes the limonitic ferralite above saprolite zones, which are more typical of humid tropical laterite profiles.
The cobalt-nickel-manganese deposits are hosted in residual laterites formed by prolonged tropical weathering of base rock serpentinites. Large areas of mineralized laterite, each several square kilometers in extent, are included on low-relief mesas or plateaus underlain by ultramafic rocks that stand above the surrounding dissected lowlands. The Nkamouna and Mada deposits are two such plateaus. Ultramafic rocks underlie all the plateaus, with some areas of schist, phyllite, and quartzite. The surrounding lowlands are underlain by schists, phyllites, quartzites, and meta-volcanics of the Intermediate Series.
Mineralized Material
This section describes geologic modeling and estimates of mineralized material for the Nkamouna Project as described in the 2011 Technical Report.
Nkamouna/Mada Geologic Model
Total mineralized material was calculated for the Nkamouna and Mada deposits using a three-dimensional block model to estimate cobalt, nickel, and manganese grade for individual blocks with dimensions of 10 by 10-meters horizontal by 1-meter vertical. In addition, lithology codes and ore classification codes were determined for each block. Licensed geologic modeling software was used for the estimation.
Basic statistics showed that there are three cobalt grade populations, including low-grade (poorly mineralized), mid-grade (mineralized), and high-grade (strongly mineralized). Manganese was found to have grade distributions similar in shape, but higher grade than cobalt, consistent with the strong correlation between cobalt and manganese in the asbolane. Nickel appears to be more evenly distributed than cobalt and manganese and was found to have two grade zones, mid-grade (mineralized) and high-grade (strongly mineralized).
Basic statistics were run within the grade zones to confirm the grade distributions and variograms were run to confirm continuity of grades within the zones.
The Nkamouna Project mineralized material is summarized in Table 1 below. These estimates of mineralized material include the results of all exploratory drilling on the Nkamouna and Mada deposits.
Table 1
Nkamouna/Mada Mineralized Material Statement
Note: Mineralized Material is not mineral reserves and does not have demonstrated economic viability.
(1) Reflects weighted averages of estimates prepared by SRK that were included in the 2011 Technical Report and the Feasibility Study. Those estimates included, for the Nkamouna deposits: 80,723 thousand tonnes of ore (including the reserves described below), cobalt 0.23%, Nickel 0.67% and manganese 1.25%. For the Mada deposits, the estimates were: 39,876 thousand tonnes of ore (also including the reserves below), cobalt 0.23%, nickel 0.59% and manganese 1.43%. These estimates have been rounded to reflect the relative accuracy of the estimates.
(2) Reported at cut-off grades of 0.12% and 0.23% cobalt contained in ferralite and breccia, respectively. Estimated reserves for the Nkamouna Project set forth below are exclusive of in the mineralized material set forth in the above table.
Mine Plan
The mine plan for the Nkamouna Project targets surface mining and physical upgrading at a rate of approximately 10,000 to 20,000 tons per day using small excavators and articulated dump trucks. The ore will be transported from the pit face to run-of-mine stockpiles located near the Nkamouna plant site, the southern extent of Mada and an emergency stockpile between the two. From the stockpiles, the ore will be blended to the desired feed grade and transported to a physical upgrade (PUG) plant using front-end loaders and haul trucks. Waste will be removed using bulldozers and side casting of rehandle with long boom excavators.
Reserves
The proven and probable reserves for the Nkamouna Project are summarized in Table 2.
Table 2
Nkamouna and Mada Reserves (as of December 31, 2010)(1)
(1) Reflects estimates prepared by SRK and included in the 2011 Technical Reports and Feasibility Study. These estimates included, for ferralite ore: 57,097 thousand tonnes of ore, cobalt 0.23%, nickel 0.69% and manganese 1.30%; and for breccia ore: 11,035 thousand tonnes of ore, cobalt 0.42%, nickel 0.54% and manganese 2.37%.
(2) Reserves are based on an assumed cobalt price of US$57,761/ton (US$26.20/lb), nickel price of US$19,208/ton (US$8.713/lb) and a manganese carbonate price of US$1,360/ton (US$0.544/lb). Cobalt and nickel prices reflect the three-year average prices for the period ending December 31, 2010, the last date used in the Feasibility Study. Manganese carbonate prices were assumed at 40% of the US$3,000/ton price for manganese in 2010. The three year average year-end prices as of December 31, 2013 were: cobalt $14.56/lb, nickel $9.38/lb. Full mining recovery is assumed. Mine reserves are not diluted. These estimates have been rounded to reflect the relative accuracy of the estimates.
(3) Cut-off grades are not representative of internal or break-even calculations but rather stockpile grade bin classification above 0.12% Co for ferralite and 0.2% Co for breccia.
(4) In-situ grade does not reflect the average metallurgical recovery of 58.66% cobalt, 16.43% nickel and 53.06% manganese.
(5) Reserves shown represent 100% interest of the GeoCam’s Nkamouna Project. The Company holds 60.5% of GeoCam.
Ore tonnes which lie within the final pit design shape are classified as proven or probable reserves based on the geological classification for measured and indicated resources. Proven reserves are measured resources within the design pit shape and probable reserves are indicated resources within the design pit shape. Inferred material which lies within the pit design is not included in the reserve statement and is treated as waste. Ore reserves are based on the economic balance between the value per tonne of run-of-mine rock against the costs to mine and process each tonne. The value is based on estimated metal concentration, estimated metal value and process recovery. The costs include mining, processing, overhead and rehabilitation.
For the Nkamouna and Mada deposits, a variable cut-off grade strategy was designed to accelerate the mining of the deposit early in the mine life but still provide adequate stockpile storage for a twenty one year process life. As such, the true definition of economic value for a block model block was not used as the differentiation of ore and waste. This is possible given the large quantum of potential resource, i.e. not reserve limited (within the mining region) and strategic planning decisions governing mine cash flow.
Metallurgy
The metallurgical evaluation centered on the selected process flow sheet and the objective was to establish the design parameters in order to engineer the selected process. This was achieved by conducting small-scale batch experiments for each of the unit processes followed by combination of the unit processes in continuous pilot scale testing campaigns.
The extensive test work provided confirmation of the selected metallurgical process flow sheet and acceptable recoveries and product qualities were achieved during the continuous pilot plant campaigns at expected reagent consumption levels.
The metallurgical evaluation provided all the required data to design the process plant and auxiliaries. The reagent consumptions for the operating cost estimates were derived from the metallurgical test work campaigns.
Process and Plant
The process plant is designed to consist of two process circuits, namely the physical upgrade (PUG) circuit, more commonly known as a wash plant, and the leach and recovery circuit.
Physical Upgrade Circuit
The objective of the planned physical upgrade (PUG) circuit is to remove most of the non-economic material, thereby significantly reducing the throughput of the leach and recovery circuit. This is generally achieved by selectively recovering the asbolane from the gangue material based on the physical characteristics of the harder, coarser and denser cobalt, nickel and manganese-bearing asbolane, compared to the finer, more friable gangue material.
Leach and Recovery Circuit
The objective of the leach and recovery circuit will be to recover cobalt and nickel as a mixed sulfide product and manganese as a manganese carbonate product from the PUG concentrate. The objective of each of the individual sub-circuits within the planned leach and recovery circuit is presented in the table below.
The steps and objectives of the Leach and Recovery Circuit
Sub Circuit
Objective
Concentrate grinding
To grind the PUG concentrate in an open circuit configuration to a very fine product size
Leach
To leach cobalt, nickel and manganese from the PUG concentrate
Primary purification
To precipitate iron and aluminum from the pregnant leach solution (PLS)
Counter current decantation (CCD)
To recover leach solution containing cobalt, nickel and manganese from barren solids
CCD tailings processing
To collect and pump tailings to CCD tailings facility
Leach and purification area scrubber
To scrub off-gasses from the leach and primary purification tanks
Secondary purification
To precipitate more iron and aluminum from the PLS stream
To remove precipitated Fe and Al from the PLS stream
Sulfide precipitation
To precipitate cobalt and nickel from the PLS as a mixed sulfide
To recover the precipitated sulfide from the barren stream
To filter and wash and package the mixed sulfide product to remove entrained process solution from the sulfide product
Tertiary purification
To precipitate the remaining iron and aluminum from the PLS stream
To remove the precipitated iron and aluminum from the PLS stream
Manganese carbonate precipitation - 1
To precipitate 95% of the leached manganese as manganese carbonate
To remove the precipitated manganese carbonate product from the solution
To filter and wash and package the manganese carbonate product
Manganese carbonate precipitation - 2
To precipitate the remaining 5% of the leached manganese as manganese carbonate
To remove the precipitated manganese carbonate product from the solution
To filter the manganese carbonate precipitate
Tailings Storage Facilities
The Tailings Storage Facilities (TSFs) are planned to provide separate storage for PUG tailings and CCD tailings. The TSFs will be built within the Napene Creek drainage basin and immediately to its north. Stored tailings will essentially fill the upper end of the Napene Creek basin. The location reduces offsite run-on to the facilities thus limiting the need to handle excess waters over the Project.
Feasibility Study
The Feasibility Study was initiated in early 2010 and completed and accepted in April 2011 for a total cost in excess of $10.7 million paid to the report preparer, Lycopodium, and a number of other contractors and consultants associated with its completion. Among other conclusions, the Feasibility Study found that the Nkamouna Project was feasible with an estimated net present value at an 8% discount rate of approximately $669 million ($405 million net to Geovic’s 60.5% interest) over a 23 year Project life, on total free cash flow (before debt service) of $2.1 billion during that period. These estimates were made using three year average prices as of December 31, 2010 for cobalt and nickel and current market prices as of that date for manganese carbonate. The Feasibility Study also estimated initial capital and start-up expenditures of approximately $617 million (including 10% contingency).
Markets and Metal Prices
Cobalt is a metal used in many diverse industrial and military applications with the leading uses in chemicals for rechargeable batteries (approximately 38 percent), and super-alloys (approximately 20 percent), principally for gas turbine engines. Cobalt is also used to make specialty magnets (5 percent); other alloys used for binding material and wear resistance (10 percent); catalysts for the petroleum and chemical industries (9 percent); drying agents for paints, varnishes, and inks and adhesives for radial tires (3 percent); porcelain enamels, ceramics, dyes and pigments (8 percent); and other uses (7 percent).
Cobalt prices are published by Metal Bulletin (www.metalbulletin.com). Commencing February 22, 2010, cobalt began trading on the London Metal Exchange (LME); however prices below are based on Metal Bulletin quotations, which reflect greater trading volume. Nickel is a principal metal also traded on the LME and has total price transparency. Prices are quoted on the LME (www.lme.com) for 99.8 percent US Spot cathode nickel and cobalt. The Nkamouna Project is planned to produce a cobalt-nickel mixed sulfide product and a magnesium carbonate product. Both products would likely be sold for the commodity content at prices slightly less than the pure metal.
The following table reflects the reported annual spot prices for high-grade cobalt and nickel as reported by Metal Bulletin for Cobalt and London Metals Exchange for nickel for each of the last five years and for cobalt in 2013, and the last reported prices for 2013.
Other Mineral Properties
We are also engaged in the strategic acquisition, exploration and development of other mineral properties to diversify our portfolio of mineral exploration and development opportunities. The Company has discovered mineralization on other mineral properties in the United States and on lands in several countries located in the Asia-Pacific region.
New Caledonia Properties
In 2009 we formed a subsidiary in New Caledonia, a French overseas island northeast of Australia in the South Pacific, to explore for chromite. Once prospecting licenses were issued, we applied for, and in early 2011 were awarded, 31 exploration licenses covering 100 square kilometers including the large historic resource identified by Union Oil Company (“Unocal”) in the mid 1980s. Figure 3 shows the location of these licensed areas, with the highlighted areas indicating our estimates of extent of ultramafic material that could be considered a source rock for the chromite.
Figure 3 New Caledonia Exploration Licenses
Environmental baseline studies were conducted within each license area. An initial program commenced in the second half of 2012 with geo-physical and auger drilling program. These activities have been ongoing over most of the 31 license areas. Since that time we have completed 554 holes on 12 of the 31 license areas, and are actively carrying out additional exploration activities on the remaining license areas.
The chromite prospects of interest to Geovic occur in unconsolidated coastal sand deposits where chromite has been separated from ultramafic host rock, and concentrated with other heavy minerals by river and wave action. This has resulted in well-sorted deposits occurring as dark bands of heavy mineral sand up to several meters thick near the mouths of large river systems and along nearby beaches and back-beach areas. Based on preliminary testing of samples collected, we believe that the chromite sands can be readily separated from the rest of the heavy mineral sand.
As of December 31, 2013 we hold exploration licenses covering 100 square kilometers.
Arizona Properties
Geovic conducted a surficial sampling survey from 2009 through 2012 within state mining leases and federal mining claims we hold in the Whetstone Mountains in southeastern Arizona. During the sampling program, Geovic discovered surface gold mineralization discontinuously along a nine-mile trend, in what appears to be a hot springs, quartz-hosted, micro-fine gold mineralization in a series of low-angle detachment faults. Such settings are often sites for hosting shallow, bulk-tonnage disseminated gold deposits.
The gold identified to date is recognized as a high level, low temperature gold-arsenic-antimony-mercury assemblage of near surface emplacement. The mineralization is closely associated with extensive silica flooding, brecciation and veining that replace host sediments, volcanics, and older basement rocks. We initiated exploration drilling, added permitting and leasing of an additional 30 square miles of land in 2012 and early 2013.
Figure 4 shows an outline of these areas.
Figure 4. Outline of Arizona Prospect Area
As of December 31, 2013 we hold the following undeveloped interest in the properties in Arizona:
Undeveloped Arizona Prospects
Whetstone Project
New Mexico Prospect
In late 2010 the Company discovered zirconium and other related advanced metals and rare earth elements in southeast New Mexico. Later in 2011 and early 2012 the Company carried out a limited subsurface drill program. Based on drilling results and subsequent preliminary metallurgical testing we obtained a minimal impact drilling permit for 7 new drill locations, totaling about 28 drill holes on this property.
During 2013 the Company entered into the Wind Mountain Joint Venture (“WMJV”) with The Joe Scott Group (“JS Group”) for exploring, defining, developing and marketing of mining claims the Company owns in New Mexico. The funding will be provided by the JS Group in three phases and the Company has agreed to convey and transfer all right, title and interest of 60% of the mining claims to the JS Group in such phases dependent upon continuation of the project and funding.
The property is located near the Texas - New Mexico border about 90 miles northeast of El Paso, Texas close to well established infrastructure and natural gas. The advanced metal suite may include zirconium-hafnium; tantalum-tin-niobium; and rare earth elements. Detailed surface geologic mapping and sampling have confirmed the geological potential of the higher grade resource areas and limited low-impact exploratory drilling has been carried out to further assess that potential. Some of the mining claims are in an area designated by the BLM as an “Area of Critical Environmental Concern.” Our exploration or development of this mineralization could be restricted by these or other environmental concerns.
Figure 5. New Mexico Properties
As of December 31, 2013 we hold undeveloped interests in the following mining claims in New Mexico which may be subsequently transferred to WMJV:
Undeveloped New Mexico Prospects
Cornudas Project
Colorado/Wyoming Properties
We hold fee mineral leases over known uranium deposits in the Denver-Cheyenne Basin of northeastern Colorado and southeastern Wyoming. These mineral leases cover acreage believed to host historical uranium deposits at depths ranging from 120 feet to 800 feet below the surface. These deposits were discovered by other energy companies in the 1970s and 1980s, including AMAX, Rocky Mountain Energy, Westinghouse, PowerCo, Resource Associates of Alaska and Unocal to name a few. Through the leases it now holds, Geovic has control over certain historically identified mineralized areas within eastern Weld County, Colorado and Goshen County, Wyoming through its wholly-owned subsidiary Geovic Energy.
As of December 31, 2013 we hold undeveloped interests in the following properties in Colorado and Wyoming:
Undeveloped Uranium Prospects
Denver-Cheyenne Basin
We are holding these properties and not carrying out any exploration at this time and are awaiting improved market conditions.
Papua New Guinea
In March 2012 the Company was notified by the Mineral Resources Authority of the government of Papua New Guinea that the Company has been awarded a two-year exploration license pursuant to applications filed by the Company in 2011. Our prospecting activities in the license indicated possible deposits of advanced and specialty metals, gold, chromium and related valuable heavy minerals. As of December 31, 2013 the license area covers 277 square miles and is centered about 45 miles south of Lae PNG. Figure 6 shows an outline of these areas. During March 2014 the Company reduced the license area to 72.5 square miles as planned and required by PNG mining statutes.
Figure 6. Papua New Guinea Properties
ITEM 3.