ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
Glossary of Certain Terms
Ferralite. Limonitic laterite, sometimes pulverulent, mottled, with varied shades of black, yellow, brown and red. Often foliated, reflecting relict serpentinite textures. Thickness varies from a few meters to tens of meters, averaging near 8 meters. Main ore unit, consistently mineralized with good metal grades near the top where black manganese zones occur, moderate to low cobalt grades lower in the unit.
Ferricrete breccia. Beneath the upper laterite is a nearly ubiquitous horizon of iron-rich concretions, ranging in size from one or two centimeters across, to blocks larger than a meter across. The ferricrete breccia averages 6 to 8 meters thick, and was often divided into two or three units by project geologists. A unit can contain very high cobalt grades, particularly at the base.
Hectare. A land measurement. One hectare is equal to 100 square meters, or approximately 2.47 acres.
Hydrometallurgical processing. One of several metallurgical processes that uses water and other liquids for the leaching and recovery of soluble metals from ore.
Lateritic soil. A soil containing laterite, or any reddish tropical soil developed by intense tropical weathering.
Manganese precipitate. Manganese compounds produced by precipitation from leach solutions.
Mine Permit. Republic of Cameroon Mining Permit Decree, dated April 11, 2003.
Mining Convention. Mining Convention between The Republic of Cameroon and Geovic Cameroon, S.A., dated July 31, 2002.
Nickeliferous laterite deposit. A nickel-bearing laterite deposit, occurring beneath the cobalt-nickel deposit at the Nkamouna Project.
Serpentinite. Bedrock, olive green to dark green, may be fractured and fissile, with silica-filled fractures. Uniformly low metals grades except in rare cases where garnierite-like nickeliferous silicates fill fractures.
Tailings facility. A containment system comprised of a compacted, earthen structure or dike and a prepared basin area that is used to contain solid tailings and water from the mineral beneficiation process.
Tailings disposal. A method for disposing of tailings, waste rejects, and water from a processing operation into the tailings facility.
Terrain or terrane. A term applied to a general geologic unit or grouping with no specific definition or formal designation.
Tonne. One metric tonne is 1000 kilograms, or 2,204.6 pounds.
Upper laterite. A purplish-red, highly magnetic, powdery clay-like soil. Ubiquitous, normally 4 to 8 m thick, except where removed by erosion at the borders of laterite plateaus.
Water table. The sub-surface level below which the host rock is water saturated. Geovic recorded a water table depth in several test drill holes which varied from approximately 12 to approximately 25 meters below surface at the Nkamouna Project site.
Description of Mineral Projects
THE NKAMOUNA PROJECT
Much of the information in this section is summarized, compiled or extracted from the NI 43-101 Technical Report, Nkamouna and Mada Deposits, East Province of Cameroon, Africa, dated November 30, 2009 (the “Nkamouna Technical Report”) prepared for Geovic Mining by SRK Consulting (U.S.), Inc. (“SRK”). Information related to the historical estimated reserves is summarized and extracted from the Technical Report, Nkamouna Cobalt Project, Feasibility Study dated January 18, 2008 (the 2008 PAH Report”) prepared for Geovic Mining by Pincock Allen & Holt (“PAH”). SRK is independent from the Company. These Reports were prepared in accordance with the requirements of NI 43-101.
Portions of the following information are based on assumptions, qualifications and procedures which are set out only in the full Nkamouna Technical Report or the 2008 PAH Report as the case may be. We have omitted much of the background information that is included in the Reports. For a complete description of assumptions, qualifications and procedures associated with the following information and for additional details about the findings of SRK, reference should be made to the full text of the Nkamouna Technical Report which is available electronically from the Company’s website at www.geovic.net and on SEDAR at www.sedar.com. References to “Geovic” in this Item 2 “Properties” include the Company and GeoCam, where applicable.
The Company and GeoCam are currently reviewing and completing an independent feasibility study of the Nkamouna Project. The Company expects the feasibility study to be completed by the end of April 2011. The feasibility study will include an updated mine plan, ore reserve estimate, ore benefication and tailings storage designs, estimated construction and capital costs, operating expenses and future cash flow from mining operations at the Nkamouna Project.
Project Description and Location
Geovic, through its 60.5% owned subsidiary GeoCam, has exclusive rights to several large cobalt-nickel laterite deposits in Cameroon (the “Cameroon Properties”) (Figure 1). There are seven laterite plateaus included in the Cameroon Properties (collectively, the “Plateaus”). The seven Plateaus aggregate approximately 337 square kilometers within the 1,250 square kilometer Mine Permit area. The Plateaus are (clockwise) Nkamouna, Mada, Rapodjombo, North Mang, South Mang, Messea and Kondong, and form a crescent-shaped array extending 80 kilometers north-south and 45 kilometers east-west (Figure 2).
The mineral rights are held by GeoCam under the Mine Permit and administered under the Mining Convention. The Mine Permit boundary is shown in Figure 2. The Plateaus within the Cameroon Properties constitute the known mineralized terrain within the Mine Permit, which is designated as “mineral exclusive lands.” The Nkamouna and Mada areas are the subject of the Reports. The Nkamouna (pronounced Ka-moon-ah) and Mada deposits (together the “Nkamouna Project”), will be mined first, and are located in southeastern Cameroon, (Figure 1), approximately 640 road kilometers east of the port city of Douala and 400 road kilometers east of the capital of Yaounde. The Mada deposit is contiguous and north of the Nkamouna deposit.
The Cameroon Properties are located in the Haut Nyong Division of the East Province. Nkamouna, Mada and the other laterite plateaus (except Kondong) lie within the Lomie Subdivision. The irregular 18-corner polygon-shaped Mine Permit area is monumented and is described in the Presidential Decree authorizing the Mining Permit.
Populations living near the site of the project are mainly made up of Nzimé (Bantu group) and indigenous Baka. Most inhabitants of the region practice subsistence agriculture (cassava, yams, plantains, bananas, some maize and taro) and supplement their diets with animal protein either domestically raised or from bush meat procured by hunters. The Nzimé people mainly live in villages along the existing network of unimproved roads. Baka are semi-nomadic forest people who live in shifting settlements in the forest, in roadside encampments and also in established villages. All generally speak languages of the Bantu linguistic family. The dominant languages in the project area are Dzime and Baka. French is nearly universal among adults, and some speak a little English since Cameroon is officially bilingual in French and English.
General geographic coordinates for the Nkamouna and Mada project area are approximately: Longitude N-3º 20´ and Latitude E-13º 50´.
Figure 1: General Location Map for the Nkamouna Cobalt Project
Figure 2: Location of Mining Permit Boundary
Most of the Eastern Province, where the Nkamouna Project is situated, is dominated by forests zoned “multiple-use.” Over 64 logging concessions are designated in the Province. A significant portion of the Province is also dedicated to protected forests, wildlife reserves and general “evergreen forest” habitat that are located well away from planned operations. A small proportion of the district is zoned for mineral development, which includes the Mine Permit area. Indigenous community lands dominated by subsistence gardening and “community forest” developments form the remainder of the district lands. These lands are located principally along the main access routes developed when the province was first opened to plantation farming in the late 19th Century. All planned mine development activity will be in logged over areas and are exclusive of “primary forest” designations. GeoCam’s mining operations will result in partial deforestation during the mining phase, which will represent less than 0.5% of the annual deforested area within the region.
Accessibility, Climate, Local Resources, Infrastructure, And Physiography
The closest sizeable town to the Nkamouna Project site is Lomie, at approximately 26 kilometers to the west-southwest. The closest railroad transport to the Project is at the town of Belabo, at a distance of approximately 250 kilometers. Transportation from Yaoundé to the Project is by paved highway to Ayos, improved public road to Abong Mbang and public roads to the Nkamouna Project site. International airports and modern telecommunication facilities exist at Yaoundé and Douala. Suitable shipping and receiving facilities exist at the international seaport of Douala. The 40 kilometer road from Lomie to the site of the GeoCam field camp supports heavy log and lumber transports, as does the road from the field camp to the project site. Driving from Yaoundé to the Nkamouna Project takes approximately 6 hours.
Lomie is the Subdivision administrative center that hosts the Nkamouna Project and has been the staging area for Geovic’s activities. Lomie has about 3,500 inhabitants, a limited local electrical supply, and very basic services and supplies. There is new telephone service, but no airstrip or approved heliport, and only rudimentary medical facilities. Geovic’s field operations are based from the Kongo Camp, a fully-contained compound near the village of Kongo. The compound has adequate working and sleeping quarters, a diesel generator, diesel fuel storage, a kitchen and dining area with refrigerators, repair shop and sample preparation and storage facilities, many of which were upgraded or expanded by GeoCam in 2008 and 2010.
The economy of Lomie is largely undeveloped, except for a sawmill and surrounding timber harvesting operations, and small local businesses and government agencies. Lomie’s municipality has provided diesel electric power since 1997. Lomie is also the site of a number of domestic and international non-governmental organizations many of which monitor the 1.3 million acre World Heritage Dja Biosphere reserve and other reserves in the region.
The regional climate is classified as an “Equatorial Guinea” sub-type characterized by two main seasonal types, namely the “main wet” season and “main dry” season, and two minor seasonal types designated as “mini wet” and “mini dry.” The site is located on the northwestern margin of the Congo River tropical zone. The annual maximum monthly temperature ranges from 24° to 33° centigrade and generally do not fall below 18° centigrade.
The average annual precipitation is approximately 1,580 millimeters (62.2 inches) with high humidity and evaporation rates. The main wet season occurs between September and early November, and the main dry season occurs from November to May. The mini wet season lasts about eight weeks in March to May, and the mini dry season extends from June to mid-September. Rainfall occurs throughout the year, except during the months of December and January, which are typically dry. Average monthly evaporation rates exceed rainfall during the two dry seasons. The prevailing wind direction is from the south and southwest, and averages less than 4-kilometers per hour and is commonly undetectable beneath the tree canopy near the Nkamouna Project site. The operating season is year-round.
The Mining Permit grants GeoCam the exclusive rights to exploit the deposits within the Permit area, and to commence mining activities within four years, a period which has been extended. The Mining Permit will remain in force for the duration of the mineable resource and has an initial term of 25 years. The Mining Permit and Mining Convention are renewable every 10 years thereafter until the depletion of resources.
A tailings storage area was designed as part of an earlier feasibility study conducted by Washington Group International in 2007, and updated in the 2008 optimization study. Further refinements to the tailings storage will be included in the final feasibility study expected for completion in April 2011. This tailings storage area is located on the north side of the process plant location and will encompass the drainage of a small local stream.
Consultants to GeoCam concluded that the water balance for the planned tailings storage facility (“TSF”) at Nkamouna Project will operate in a water deficit condition. Diversion ditches could be incorporated to divert water around the facility or into the facility depending on the water needs at the time.
The Project water supply will be drawn from the Edje River. Much of the process water will be recycled from the TSF. Mining, processing and housing facilities will each be provided with appropriate sewage collection and treatment systems. Project wastes will be disposed of in accordance with the most current Waste Management Plan.
GeoCam has obtained numerous permits and authorizations to allow Project development to proceed. The principal remaining permit required before the initiation of construction at the Nkamouna Project is finalization of a land lease. The land lease establishes GeoCam’s right to occupy the surface of the land and build roads, remove vegetation and conduct mining activities in accordance with the Mining Convention. Annual lease costs have not been established.
Construction Facilities
To support the mining and milling operations at Nkamouna, a number of ancillary facilities will be required. These include energy generation, a mobile equipment maintenance shop, loading and staging areas and facilities, warehouses, reagent storage buildings, laboratory, steam plant, and administration offices.
A temporary construction camp will be built and used until permanent housing can be constructed to meet Project operating requirements. The Kongo compound currently serves as a temporary camp and is located 5 kilometers from the proposed mining and construction activities. Permanent housing will be located in the Nkamouna Mining Permit area. On-site accommodations will be provided for expatriate staff. Housing and other community assistance will be provided to local employees, who will be drawn mostly from nearby villages.
Currently all power is generated on site. It is expected that the power supply for the Project will be supplied by both diesel powered generators and a fuel oil power plant.
Well water is currently being used for potable water. A number of boreholes were sited around the project area where housing or other facilities requiring potable water will be installed. Water from the boreholes was tested and meets minimal standards for potable water.
Area Topography
The central part of the Nkamouna area is dominated by a series of rolling upland plateaus that are isolated by several river systems that feed into the main Congo River drainage basin. Elevations in the province range from about 450 meters along the lower Dja River to 927 meters at Mount Guimbiri, located east of Abong Mbang. The local upland plateau in the vicinity of the Nkamouna Project mine site presents an elevation of about 700 meters.
The Nkamouna Project topography is relatively flat and the mineral deposits have an average depth of 16 meters. Much of the Nkamouna deposits are situated down slope from the process plant site and with a natural grade of approximately 5% with upper elevations around 760 meters and lower elevations near 610 meters. The Nkamouna deposit is a crescent shape about 4 kilometers from east to west and 2 kilometers from north to south. The planned process plant site is adjacent to the mine site and near the top of a saddle at an approximate elevation of 700 meters.
Geology Setting
Regional Geology
Southeastern Cameroon lies within a region of metamorphosed Proterozoic rocks ranging in age from 600 to 2,500 million years and extending across parts of several west-central African countries. In southeastern Cameroon, several assemblages of such metamorphic rocks have been mapped and named. Due to the metamorphosed nature of the rocks and poor exposures, there is some uncertainty in distinguishing and dating various lithologic units.
The Nkamouna/Mada project area is primarily underlain by rocks of the Intermediate Series, including the Mbalmayo-Bengbis “Series” or unit. These rocks are principally chloritic and sericitic schists and quartzites. Also included in the Intermediate Series are extensive metamorphosed felsic, mafic volcanic and volcaniclastic rocks. These rocks are post-Eburnean (i.e., younger than 1,800 million years) and are cut by basic dikes. The original depositional age of the sediments was probably 1,800 to 1,400 million years, with metamorphism to almandine-amphibolite facies occurring about 1,200 million years ago, likely coincident with the Kibaran Orogeny.
The schists and quartzites contain inliers of ultramafic rock, which were probably emplaced long after deposition of the original sedimentary rocks. Due to poor exposures, the contact relations are unclear, but the ultramafic bodies appear to be emplaced along north-trending regional fractures, which apparently allowed emplacement of ultramafic rocks of a deep-seated origin.
The region within a 300-kilometer radius of the Cameroon Properties area in Cameroon, Gabon, Congo, and Central African Republic has few producing mineral deposits and few with near-term production potential. Most of this region of west-central Africa is underlain by Proterozoic granite-gneiss-schist terrains, broadly similar to the rocks in the Cameroon Properties area. Within the region, ultramafic rocks, the original source of the cobalt and nickel, are confined to the Nkamouna Project area. There has been no previous commercial production of minerals from the Cameroon Properties.
Property Geology
The cobalt-nickel deposits are hosted in residual laterites which have formed by prolonged tropical weathering of serpentinites. Large areas of mineralized laterite, each several square kilometers in extent, have been preserved on low-relief mesas or plateaus underlain by ultramafic rocks that stand above the surrounding dissected lowlands. Nkamouna and Mada are two such plateaus. Most of the plateaus are underlain by ultramafic rocks, with some areas of schist, phyllite, and quartzite. The surrounding lowlands are underlain by schists, phyllites, quartzites, and meta-volcanics of the Intermediate Series. The bedrock geology at the Nkamouna Project has been mapped by Geovic through a combination of natural exposures, soil mapping, and, most importantly, observation of weathered or fresh rock encountered in pits and drillholes. Mapping of detailed structures, attitudes of foliation or fractures is generally not practical except in the deeper pits. Rock from pits, drillholes, and rare exposures indicate that the fresh underlying rock at Nkamouna is a pervasively-sheared serpentinite.
At the Nkamouna Project, petrographic evidence suggests that the parent rock to the serpentinite was probably a dunite (rock containing +90 percent olivine). Metasedimentary rocks (quartz-muscovite schist,
phyllite, and quartzite) occupy the borders of the serpentinite, and also occur as inliers within the serpentinites. Locally, lateritic soils with schist fragments overlie serpentinite bedrock due to the gravity-induced creep of soils down-slope. The typical sequence of discernable horizons in the weathering profile at the Nkamouna Project is: organic soil at the surface, upper laterite, ferrecrete breccia, ferralite, silecrete, saprolite, serpentine bedrock.
Mineralization
The Cameroon laterite profiles, similar to those elsewhere in humid tropical environments, show a strong vertical zonation, which reflects the transition from unweathered host rock at the base, to highly-leached residues at the surface. The Cameroon laterites depart from the norm somewhat, in possessing two layers of iron-rich laterite, between which lies ferricrete breccia. The lower portion of the profile under the breccia includes the limonitic ferralite and underlying saprolite zones which are more typical of humid tropical laterite profiles.
Most of the economic mineralization in each deposit is in one interval containing about 1 meter of ferricrete breccia and 4 meters of ferralite. The ore types are characterized geologically by their mineral content, bulk composition, and texture, as described below. The deposit’s unusual concentration of the coarsely aggregated ore mineral asbolane is highly significant, as is the thick ferricrete breccia.
Of the minerals of economic interest in the Nkamouna and Mada laterites, most occur in the majority of nickel-cobalt laterites worldwide, in proportions which vary widely from one laterite horizon to another, and from one deposit to another. In general, these minerals occur at Nkamouna and Mada as fine-grained clay-like or concretionary masses, and are only occasionally identifiable as discretely visible mineral specimens.
The key mineral in the Geovic deposits, which hosts the cobalt, most of the manganese, and between one-third and one-half of the nickel, is asbolane. Asbolane is widespread in nickeliferous laterites, but elsewhere is usually present in very small amounts and is normally inconspicuous as black blebs on fractures. The asbolane occurrence at the Nkamouna Project is unusual in that it occurs as both discrete platy crystals and in larger and coarser crystal aggregates and fine-grained wad up to 5 cm in diameter, sometimes as concretion-like nodules with chromite and goethite. It also occurs as a fine intergrowth with chromium and iron oxides and hydroxides.
Asbolane is critical to the Nkamouna Project economics because it occurs as coarser aggregates of microscopic crystals, the aggregates being separable by crushing and wet screening from the pulverulent iron-oxide minerals and clays. The resulting coarse fraction contains most of the cobalt and manganese, and a significant portion of the nickel in the raw material. This physical concentration of the ore results in a significantly upgraded concentrate prior to processing.
History and Exploration
The Nkamouna and Mada deposits are contiguous zones, and together comprise an enriched cobalt-nickel-manganese-iron laterite deposit located in southeastern Cameroon, Africa. Nkamouna and several other nickeliferous laterite deposits in southeast Cameroon were first discovered and investigated by the United Nations Development Programme (“UNDP”) during 1981-1986, in a cooperative project with the Cameroon Ministry of Mines, Water and Energy to evaluate mineral potential in southeastern Cameroon. Due to the remote location and the low nickel prices at the time, the discovery did not draw much attention.
No further exploration took place on the property until William Buckovic, founder of Geovic and GeoCam, became aware of the nickel discovery in 1988, subsequent to submitting a proposal to explore for minerals to the Cameroon Ministry of Mines in 1986. After assaying samples he was able to obtain from the area, Buckovic noted in 1994 the higher than typical cobalt-to-nickel ratio that characterizes the Cameroon properties. This high ratio was confirmed by the assay results from the UNDP core drilling program. Mr. Buckovic was also aware of advances in the hydrometallurgical processing of previously sub-economic nickel laterite deposits. As a result, in 1995 he helped form a new company, GeoCam, to investigate this unusual but potentially promising occurrence.
A government-issued Prospecting License covering 19,600 square kilometers was granted in 1995. In 1999, an Exploration Permit was granted on a reduced area of 4,876 square kilometers. A Mining Convention was entered into between GeoCam and the Republic of Cameroon in 2002. In 2003, the Mine Permit was issued by decree granting an exclusive right to GeoCam to exploit the deposits within the permitted 1,250 square kilometers area. GeoCam’s initial program was based entirely on manually dug test pits, and later incorporated drilling and limited trenching. The program began at Nkamouna and was later extended to other laterite plateaus, which were identified by satellite images and air photos. Geologists from the Cameroon Ministry of Mines, Water and Energy participated in the work to provide government oversight as well as training.
By 2004, Geovic had largely completed the reconnaissance sampling and had undertaken pitting and drilling patterns of varying densities at Nkamouna where access was greater due to recent logging operations, with an eye toward defining deposit parameters for an eventual feasibility study. Between 1995 and 2003, Geovic carried out extensive pitting at Mada. Through 2007, more than 1800 pits were hand dug, mostly by local workers. During the period 2005-2009, GeoCam completed significant infill drilling and pitting at both the Nkamouna and Mada deposits.
Exploration
During 2008 and 2009, GeoCam conducted significant infill and step out drilling and pitting in both the Nkamouna and Mada areas, including an additional 975 drill holes at Nkamouna and 1,012 drill holes at Mada. This new data forms the basis for the updated mineralized material estimates made in 2009.
The geological logging scheme utilized for past and current drill programs is consistent with the stratigraphic units. The logging scheme has evolved over the history of GeoCam’s work since 1995. All logging was carried out at the pit or drill site by qualified geologists, using standardized logging reports.
Because the Nkamouna deposits are secondary, which represent the decomposition products of bedrock, they present the data-generation issues which are typical of laterites: sampling of intermixed material which ranges from very soft to very hard, and which varies greatly in metal grade from one particle to the next, especially in the ferricrete breccia lithologies.
Trench Data
Two trenches have been excavated at Nkamouna. Dug by hand, the first trench is up to 8.5m deep, has a 5m north-to-south cross trench in the middle and extends 20 meters. The trench is located on the western edge of the Nkamouna plateau, west of some natural exposures of ferricrete, at a location where the upper limonite appears to have been removed by erosion. Most of the trench exposes only ferricrete, and does not reach adequate depth to expose the ferralite or saprolite. The trench site was selected by Geovic primarily to determine whether blasting will be necessary in the ferricrete. The trench was thoroughly channel-sampled and assayed by Geovic. These results were not used in the mineralized material estimations.
The second trench was excavated in the southeastern part of Nkamouna. This trench was excavated with bulldozers and included deepening by hand dug pits. Assay results from this trench were reviewed, but not used in mineralized material estimations.
Drilling-Interpretation
SRK Consulting has conducted a detailed review of all historic and current drilling and pitting program data, and is of the opinion that the methodology used to collect the samples and that the current sample spacing is adequate for use in resource estimation. SRK Consulting has noted that the historic core sample analyses conducted by GeoCam are adequate, but is of the opinion that the larger sample sizes afforded by pit and reverse circulation samples are more appropriate, given the coarse grain size and highly variable distribution of asbolane, which is the mineral of economic significance in the Nkamouna and Mada deposits.
Sampling and Analysis
GeoCam maintains a sample-preparation facility at the Kongo Camp, where samples from drill holes and pits are prepared by GeoCam employees for assay. SRK reviewed the sample preparation procedures in detail.
Sample intervals in pits generally varied between 0.5 and 1.65 meters. Each interval was logged by color and texture, and by mineralogy where noted. All samples were analyzed for nickel, cobalt, manganese, chromium, copper, zinc, lead and MgO. Composites representing 5 to 10 meters were analyzed for Fe2O3.
SRK and PAH found that Geovic personnel, and contractors paid close attention to sampling and sample-processing techniques, and have varied the techniques from time to time, based on careful analysis of results, including comparisons between different methods. Geovic believes that collection and handling of samples met or exceeded industry standards for laterite projects, and that any limitations on precision and accuracy of samples are those limitations inherent in the laterite deposits themselves and in assaying technology.
Altogether, more than 56,000 Nkamouna, Mada and Rapodjombo samples were assayed for cobalt and nickel during 1995-2009. Many of these samples were also assayed for manganese and various other appropriate methods were used for occasional analyses of 34 other elements for bulk samples and other specialty samples.
Security of Samples
Various inter-laboratory checks were undertaken by Geovic on behalf of GeoCam throughout the sampling phase of the project. Geovic undertook a comprehensive program of comparing second sample comparisons from Nkamouna. The pairs of samples extracted from the same sample intervals showed a high degree of correlation for cobalt, nickel and manganese, providing confidence in the ability to generate reproducible assay results from similar sample material.
Sampling
Upon arrival from the field in polyethylene woven bags, the samples are stored at Kongo Camp in a sheltered location until processed. As each bag was opened, the sample was placed in a steel tray for drying, and an aluminum tag bearing the sample information on the sample bag placed on the tray. After drying in a wood fired oven, the sample was quartered and placed in a clearly labeled plastic bag, with the sample location and interval number recorded. Another aluminum tag was prepared which accompanied the sample, in transit to the United States. The aluminum tag placed in the steel tray before oven drying remained with the control sample on the shelves in the storage facility at the Kongo Camp. All samples were clearly labeled as organized.
Upon removal from the oven and cooling, each sample was visually inspected for the presence of oversize material (coarser than approximately 2 centimeters). Oversize material was manually crushed in a mortar and pestle and returned to the sample tray. At this point, the dried sample was inspected again by a geologist to ensure that the on-site logging did not miss important geological features due to excessive drilling mud or poor lighting. The sample was then split in a Jones-type riffle splitter with openings measuring 10 millimeters. Normally a 200 gram dried sample was collected for ferralite and a 500 gram sample for breccia and bagged for shipment to the assay lab. The shipment of samples followed industry accepted procedures regarding chain of custody. Samples were shipped by vehicle to GeoCam’s office in Yaoundé, the capital of Cameroon, where they were delivered to a common carrier for air-freighting to North America.
SRK reviewed the sampling procedures that Geovic personnel and Mintec, Inc. implemented during the previous and current drilling and pitting programs and concluded that the collection and handling of samples met or exceeded industry standards.
Quality Control
All samples were shipped to an independent laboratory facility in Tucson, Arizona, for analysis. The samples assayed were submitted to both the laboratory’s and Geovic’s independent QA/QC checks. The use of second splits and sample standards are universally recognized methods to provide confidence in the assaying reliability.
The laboratory runs assay batches of 24 prepared pulp samples, comprising 20 samples plus repeats on the 1st and 20th samples of each batch, in addition to two in-house standards. One sample per client’s submitted batch of 20 was reweighed along with both an in-house and a certified reference standard of known Co-Ni-Mn content. The laboratory’s internal checks allow for a maximum acceptable variance of 2% for duplicates and standards. Given its ISO and CAN-P-1579 certifications, the laboratory is required to have a suitable program in place for periodic round-robin inter-laboratory comparisons.
Historic Nkamouna Reserve Estimates
Geovic Mining expects that the feasibility study will contain revised reserve estimates, a review of an updated mine plan, estimated construction and capital costs, operating expenses and future cash flow from mining operations at the Nkamouna Project and will be completed April 2011.
Mineable reserve estimates were made by PAH in the 2008 PAH Report and the information in this section is excerpted from the 2008 PAH Report.
The Nkamouna deposit ore would be subjected to physical upgrading (“PUG”) consisting of crushing, attritioning and particle sizing. The PUG plant basically consists of a receiving hopper and two stages each of crushing, attritioning and particle classifying to produce a coarse, higher-grade concentrate, a low-grade middlings and fine tailings. The concentrate will be conveyed to a receiving bin at the process plant. As approximately 60% of the cobalt is concentrated in only 20.5% of the ore weight, the process plant size will be much smaller and financial performance would be dramatically improved when the ore is physically upgraded prior to final processing in the Metal Recovery Plant (“MRP”).
Economic evaluation criteria were based on supplying a fixed 2,000 tonnes ore per day (“tpd”) of product from the PUG plant to the process plant at an average of 1.87:1 Waste:Ore ratio. This yielded an average mine production rate of 23,000 tpd with approximately 8,000 tpd of ore, and a maximum of 28,000 tpd for equipment sizing and operating cost estimation.
A cutoff grade of 0.175% ferralite-equivalent cobalt was used by PAH to define the Nkamouna Mineral Reserves described in Table 1 below.
The mineral reserves presented in Table 1 were classified as Proven plus Probable, and all are in the Nkamouna deposit. Reserve calculations are from the 2008 PAH Report using data then available (not including results of the 2008-2009 drill program). The historic reserves estimates are presented for reference purposes only and do not represent current reserves.
TABLE 1
Nkamouna Deposit
Historic Mineral Reserve Statement
(1) The historic proven and probable mineral reserves for the Nkamouna Project were estimated in accordance with definitions set out in NI 43-101 and in reliance on the 2008 PAH Report prepared by PAH under those regulations. We believe that the mineral reserves were estimated on a basis consistent with the definition of proven and probable reserves prescribed for use in the United States by the SEC and as set forth in Guide 7. The historical reserves estimates are presented for reference purposes only and do not represent current reserves
(2) The above estimate of reserves was completed at a time when GeoCam planned to produce cobalt, and nickel and manganese as finished products. GeoCam intends to produce a mixed Cobalt-Nickel sulfide product (“MSP”) and manganese carbonate from the mining and processing at the Nkamouna Project.
(3) We expect to increase the cutoff grade of cobalt in the ore we mine and process at the PUG plant and MRP at the Nkamouna Project from that used in the above estimates. Such an increase could reduce the estimated reserves while accelerating the expected economic return from mining and processing.
(4) PAH used a cutoff grade of 0.175% ferralite equivalent cobalt, and a three year average price for the period ending October 2007 of $20.18 per pound of cobalt and $11.16 per pound of nickel.
Mineralized Material
This section describes the geologic modeling and the estimate of mineralized material for the Nkamouna and Mada deposits based on the Nkamouna Technical Report completed in November 2009.
Nkamouna/Mada Geologic Model
Total mineralized material was calculated for the Nkamouna and Mada deposits using a three-dimensional block model to estimate cobalt, nickel, and manganese grade for individual blocks with dimensions of 10 by 10-meters horizontal by 1-meter vertical. In addition, lithology codes and ore classification codes were defined for each block. The estimation was done using licensed geologic modeling software.
A top-of-mineralization, or “TOMI,” model was created by ORE so that the top of mineralization in each drill hole was at a constant elevation. The advantage of this model is that the optimum correlation between the metal grades is horizontal and the shape and continuity of the mineralization can be viewed directly on plan maps. This model also went through several iterations of editing/remodeling to remove inconsistencies in the data from shallow holes that did not penetrate the top of mineralization and from multiple pits and drill holes within a few meters of each other.
Basic statistics, using the TOMI model, showed that there are three cobalt grade populations, including low-grade (poorly mineralized), mid-grade (mineralized), and high-grade (strongly mineralized). Manganese was found to have grade distributions similar in shape, but higher grade than cobalt, consistent with the strong correlation between cobalt, manganese, and asbolane. Nickel appears to be much more evenly distributed than cobalt and manganese and was found to only have two grade zones, mid-grade (mineralized) and high-grade (strongly mineralized).
Grade zones were defined for each metal as closed shapes in plan maps in the unfolded model.
Basic statistics were run within the grade zones to confirm the grade distributions and variograms were run to confirm continuity of grades within the zones.
The mineralized material is summarized in Table 2 below. These estimates of mineralized material include the results of all prior drilling on the Nkamouna and Mada deposits through 2009.
Table 2
Nkamouna/Mada Mineralized Material Statement(1)
Note: Mineralized Material is not mineral reserves and do not have demonstrated economic viability.
(1) Prepared by SRK and included in the Nkamouna Technical Report. All figures have been rounded to reflect the relative accuracy of the estimates. Reported at cut-off grades of 0.12 and 0.23% cobalt contained within ferralite and breccia, respectively.
(2) This estimate is applicable to the Nkamouna and Mada deposits. The historic reserve estimate prepared by PAH and included as “Historic Mineral Reserves” in Table 1 is inclusive of the Nkamouna deposit and mineralized material previously included in the historic mineral reserves, which can no longer be classified as such under guidelines of NI 43-101, are included in this mineralized material estimate. Assumptions used for estimating the historic reserves in Table 1 are different than those used in the mineralized material estimate above.
(3) SRK has made no estimate of reserves at Nkamouna and Mada deposits. Any future estimate of reserves included in the Nkamouna and Mada deposits based on the above information will be significantly different than the historic reserves described in Table 1.
“Mineralized material” as used in this report, although permissible under Guide 7, does not indicate “reserves” by SEC standards. Geovic cannot be certain that any part of these deposits will ever be confirmed or converted into Guide 7 compliant “reserves.” The reader is cautioned not to assume that all or any part of the mineralized material will ever be confirmed or converted into reserves or that mineralized material can be economically or legally extracted.
Markets and Metal Prices
Cobalt is a metal used in many diverse industrial and military applications with the leading uses in rechargeable batteries (approximately 21 percent), and super-alloys (approximately 20 percent, principally for gas turbine engines). Cobalt is also used to make specialty magnets (7 percent); other alloys used for corrosion and wear resistance (16 percent); catalysts for the petroleum and chemical industries (11 percent); drying agents for paints, varnishes, and inks and adhesives for radial tires (9.5 percent); porcelain enamels, dyes and pigments (11 percent); and magnetic recording media (4.5 percent).
Cobalt prices are published by Metal Bulletin (www.metalbulletin.com). Commencing February 22, 2010, cobalt began trading on the London Metal Exchange (LME).
Nickel is a principal metal traded on the LME and has total price transparency. Prices are quoted on the LME (www.lme.com) for 99.8 percent US Spot cathode nickel and cobalt.
The following table reflects the reported annual spot prices for high grade cobalt and nickel as reported by Metal Bulletin for Cobalt and London Metals Exchange for nickel for each of the last five years, and the last reported price in December 2010.
Other Mining Leases and Claims
We are also engaged in the strategic acquisition, exploration and development of other mineral properties to diversify our portfolio of mineral exploration and development opportunities. To that end we actively leased mineral properties, permitted property and staked mining claims as described below.
New Caledonia Properties
In 2009 we formed a subsidiary in New Caledonia, a French overseas island territory (collectivity) northeast of Australia in the South Pacific, to explore for chromite. Prospecting licenses covering up to 120 square kilometers were issued by the government. Since the licenses were issued Geovic collected and analyzed more than 400 surface mineral samples and ranked the prospects according to development potential. The onshore prospecting program resulted in the discovery of several potentially large tonnage high grade chromite accumulations. The subsidiary applied for, and in early 2011 was awarded exploration licenses. Figure 3 shows the location of these licensed areas.
Figure 3 Exploration Licenses
Environmental baseline studies are being initiated within each license area to establish site specific exploration impacts and mitigation requirements prior to drilling. Subsequently, following regulatory approval to
commence exploration, onshore and offshore drill campaigns are planned to assess the quality and extent of chromite deposits on the licensed area. The initial drilling program is targeted to commence in the second half of 2011 and continue into 2012, at which point we anticipate that mineralized material will be estimated.
The chromite prospects of interest to Geovic occur in unconsolidated coastal sand deposits, some very remote, where chromite has been separated from ultramafic host rock, and concentrated with other heavy minerals by river and wave action. This has resulted in well-sorted deposits occurring as dark bands of heavy mineral sand up to several meters thick near the mouths of large river systems and along nearby beaches and back-beach areas.
Based on preliminary testing of bulk samples collected under the prospecting licenses, Geovic believes that the chromite sands can be readily separated from the rest of the heavy mineral sand.
As of March 1, 2011 we hold the following exploration licenses in New Caledonia:
New Caledonia-Exploration Licenses
Arizona Properties
Geovic conducted a surficial sampling survey in 2009 and 2010 within state mining leases and federal mining claims we hold in the Whetstone Mountains in southeastern Arizona. During the sampling program, Geovic discovered surface gold mineralization discontinuously along a nine-mile trend, in what appears to be a hot springs, quartz-hosted, micro-fine gold mineralization in regional detachment faults. Such settings are often sites for hosting shallow, bulk-tonnage disseminated gold deposits.
The gold identified to date is recognized as a high level, low temperature gold-arsenic-antimony-mercury assemblage of near surface emplacement. The mineralization is closely associated with extensive silica flooding and veining and related clay alteration and replacement of sediments, volcanics, and older basement rocks.
Based on this early exploration, the Company sought additional state leases and established additional federal mining claims in the area, and now holds over 68 square miles of surface prospects. Figure 4 show the location of these areas.
Figure 4 Arizona Prospect Acreage
As of March 1, 2011 we hold the following undeveloped interest in the following properties in Arizona:
Undeveloped Arizona Prospects
Whetstone Project
Colorado/Wyoming Properties
We also hold fee mineral leases over known uranium deposits in the Denver-Cheyenne Basin of northeastern Colorado and southeastern Wyoming. These mineral leases cover acreage believed to host historical uranium deposits at depths ranging from 120 feet to 600 feet below the surface. These deposits were evaluated by other operators in the 1970s and 1980s, including PowerCo, AMAX, Wyoming Minerals and Unocal. Through the leases it now holds, Geovic Energy has control over much of the known mineralized area in eastern Weld County, Colorado and Goshen County, Wyoming.
We intend to hold these pre-paid leases and seek third parties to join in future efforts to explore and develop these uranium prospects.
As of March 1, 2011 we hold undeveloped interests in the following properties in Colorado and Wyoming:
Undeveloped Uranium Prospects
Denver-Cheyenne Basin
New Mexico Properties
In 2010 we staked federal mining claims in an area where a prospecting survey showed a potential for recoverable zirconium and certain heavy rare earth elements. Our Cornudas Mountain project in southern Otero County, New Mexico is located on the Texas - New Mexico border about 90 miles northeast of El Paso, Texas and 65 miles north of the rail-head at Sierra Blanca, Texas. The project hosts an advanced metal suite that includes zirconium-hafnium; tantalum-tin-niobium; and yttrium-rare earth elements. Detailed surface geologic mapping and sampling have confirmed the geological potential of the higher grade resource areas, but surface and low-impact exploratory drilling remain to be carried out to establish measured mineralized material or reserves. Some of the mining claims are in an area designated by the BLM as an “Area of Critical Environmental Concern” based on its scenic and cultural resources. Our exploration or development of the prospect areas may be restricted by these or other environmental concerns.
If our prospect evaluation is successful we envisage development as a small-scale, low impact, high value operation due to the combined metal dollar value of the mineral concentrate, and the apparent relative ease of recovery. The suite of advanced mineral elements being sought have experienced increases in value due to limited supplies and accelerated demand in the high tech industrial sector. We intend to establish additional claims in the area to provide better coverage of the potentially mineralized area, and to further explore these claims in 2011.
As of March 1, 2011 we hold undeveloped interests in the following mining claims in New Mexico:
Undeveloped New Mexico Prospects
Cornudas Project
ITEM 3.