ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
Glossary of Certain Terms
Attitudes of foliation. Strike and dip measurement of metamorphic fabrics in deformed basement rocks such as schists, serpentinites, gneisses and amphibolites in geologic metamorphic terrain.
Counter-current decantation. Part of a hydrometallurgical circuit in which leached solids (tailings) are separated from the pregnant leach solution (PLS) using a series of thickening tanks.
CCD leach tails. The spent waste solids, or tailings remaining after dissolving valuable recoverable metals.
Ferralite. Limonitic laterite, sometimes pulverulent, mottled, with varied shades of black, yellow, brown and red. Often foliated, reflecting relict serpentinite textures. Thickness varies from a few meters to tens of meters, averaging near 8 meters. Main ore unit, consistently mineralized with good metal grades near the top where black manganese zones occur, moderate to low cobalt grades lower in the unit.
Ferricrete Breccia. Beneath the Upper Laterite is a nearly ubiquitous horizon of iron-rich concretions, ranging in size from one or two centimeters across, to blocks larger than a meter across. The ferricrete breccia averages 6 to 8 meters thick, and was often divided into two or three units by project geologists. A unit can contain very high cobalt grades, particularly at the base.
Hydrometallurgical processing. One of several metallurgical processes that uses water and other liquids for the leaching and recovery of soluble metals from ore.
Lateritic Soil. A soil containing laterite, or any reddish tropical soil developed by intense tropical weathering.
Maghemite. Strongly magnetic mineral of the magnetite series in the spinel group.
Manganese precipitate. Manganese compounds produced by precipitation from leach solutions.
Nickeliferous laterite deposit. A nickel-bearing laterite deposit, occurring beneath the cobalt-nickel deposit at the Nkamouna Project.
Proterozoic granite-gneiss-schist. Proterozoic age (Pre-Cambrian) rock units of igneous granite, metamorphic gneiss and schist, or the terrain found in the vicinity of the Nkamouna laterite deposits.
Saprolite zone. Composed of green, sticky clay with less than 50% fragments of partly weathered serpentinite, grading downward into foliated, fractured serpentinite. Relatively poor in cobalt, often rich in nickel. Averages 1.5 meters thick.
Serpentinite. Bedrock, olive green to dark green, may be fractured and fissile, with silica-filled fractures. Uniformly low metals grades except in rare cases where garnierite-like nickeliferous silicates fill fractures.
Silcrete. This highly-discontinuous unit is composed of subhorizontal plates of white to grey silica, intercalated with varicolored clays. Usually 0.5 meters thick or less, and often absent. Commonly has a low metal content.
Tailings dam. A compacted, earthen structure or dike that is used to contain solid and liquid tailings.
Tailings disposal. A method for disposing tailings, or waste rejects from a processing operation.
Terrain or terrane. A term applied to a general geologic unit or grouping with no specific definition or formal designation.
Upper Laterite. A purplish-red, highly magnetic, powdery clay-like soil. Ubiquitous, normally 4 to 8 m thick, except where removed by erosion at the borders of laterite plateaus.
Water Table. The depth below the surface where the rocks are water saturated. Geovic recorded a water table depth in several test drill holes which varied from approximately 12 to approximately 25 meters below surface at the Nkamouna Project site.
Description Of Mineral Projects
THE NKAMOUNA PROJECT
Unless stated otherwise, information in this section is summarized, compiled or extracted from the Technical Report, Nkamouna Cobalt Project, Feasibility Study dated January 18, 2008 (the “Technical Report”) prepared for Geovic Mining and Geovic by Richard Lambert and Alan Noble, and NI 43-101 Technical Report Nkamouna and Mada Cobalt Projects, Cameroon, dated March 12, 2007 (the “Mada Technical Report”) prepared for Geovic and GeoCam by Richard Lambert, Alan Noble and Fred Barnard, each a “Qualified Person,” as defined in National Instrument 43-101 (“NI 43-101”). Messrs. Lambert and Noble are currently employees or associates of Pincock, Allen & Holt (“PAH”), and are independent of Geovic. Mr. Barnard was previously an associate of PAH. The Technical Reports were prepared in accordance with the requirements of NI 43-101.
Portions of the following information are based on assumptions, qualifications and procedures which are set out only in the full Technical Report. For a complete description of assumptions, qualifications and procedures associated with the following information, reference should be made to the full text of the Technical Report which is available electronically from the Company’s website at www.geovic.net and on SEDAR at www.sedar.com. References to “Geovic” in this section entitled “Mineral Projects of the Company” include GeoCam, as applicable.
Project Description and Location
Geovic, through its 60% owned subsidiary GeoCam, has exclusive rights to a large cobalt-nickel laterite province in southeastern Cameroon (the “Nkamouna Project”). There are seven laterite plateaus within the Nkamouna Project: Nkamouna, Mada, Rapodjombo, North Mang, South Mang, Messea and Kondong (collectively, the “Plateaus”).
The Nkamouna Project (the “Nkamouna Project”), one of the Plateaus, is located in southeastern Cameroon, approximately 640 road kilometers east of the port city of Douala and 400 road kilometres east of the capitol of Yaoundé and is the only area where we have established reserves. The Mada Project (the “Mada Project”) is another one of the Plateaus, approximately 10 kilometers north of the Nkamouna Project.
The mineral rights are held by GeoCam under the Mine Permit and administered under the Mining Convention. Figure A shows the Mine Permit boundary. Although the Mining Permit decree states the area of the Nkamouna Project as 1,250 square kilometers, the area within the coordinate boundary of the Nkamouna Project measures approximately 1,600 square kilometers of “multiple use” forestlands, while the Plateaus within the Nkamouna Project constitute over 300 square kilometers of known mineralized or potentially mineralized terrain within lands designated as “mineral exclusive lands.”
Geovic’s Nkamouna Project is located in the Haut Nyong district, East Province of Cameroon, Africa. The Project’s site is 640 kilometers by road from the seaport of Douala, and about 400 kilometers from the capital city of Yaoundé. The closest town to the Project site is Lomie, at approximately 26 kilometers to the west - southwest. The closest railroad transport to the Project is at the town of Belabo, at a distance of approximately 250 kilometers. Transportation from Yaoundé to the Project is by paved highway to Ayos, improved public road to Abong Mbang and private logging roads or public roads to the project site.
Fifty-nine percent of the Eastern Province, where the Nkamouna Project is situated, is dominated by forests zoned “multiple-use.” Over 64 logging concessions are designated in the province that surround GeoCam’s “mineral exclusive zone.” A significant portion of the area is also dedicated to protected forests, wildlife reserves and general “evergreen forest” habitat (22%) that are located well away from planned operations. A small proportion of the district is zoned for mineral development (1.6%), part of which includes “mineral exclusive lands” (0.35%). Indigenous community lands dominated by subsistence gardening and “community forest” developments form the remainder of the district lands which covers about 18% of the province. These lands are located principally along the main access routes developed when the province was first opened to plantation farming in the late 19th Century.
The Mining Convention was signed on July 31, 2002 by the Ministry of Mines, Water, and Power of the Republic of Cameroon. On April 11, 2003, GeoCam was issued the Mining Permit, granting GeoCam the exclusive rights to exploit the deposits within the Nkamouna Project. The Mining Permit will remain in force for the duration of the mineable resource and has an initial term of 25 years. The Mining Permit and Mining Convention are renewable every 10 years thereafter until the depletion of resources.
In 1999, GeoCam was granted an Exploration Permit, PDR 67, on an area of 4,876 square kilometers. A Mining Convention was entered into between GeoCam and the Republic of Cameroon in 2002. In 2003, Mine Permit 33 was issued by decree granting an exclusive right to Geovic to exploit the deposits within the permitted area. Geovic’s program was initially based entirely on manually-dug test pits, and later incorporated drilling and limited trenching. The program began at Nkamouna and was later extended to the other Plateaus, which were identified by satellite images and air photos. Geologists from the Cameroon Ministry of Mines, Water and Energy participated in the work initially to provide government oversight as well as training.
Lands held within the Mining Permit are designated “multiple-use,” with the principal mineralized areas set aside for “exclusive mine” development. Mining Permit lands were specifically established to exclude village lands in order to avoid conflicts with local communities.
Specific sites that will be impacted by mining and mine related activities will be leased under a government prescribed expropriation process and will have “site specific” environmental plans designed and approved by governing agencies prior to mining. This inventory, valuation and registration process requires local government approval, following a review of each site by district leaders.
The principal remaining permits required by GeoCam before the initiation of construction at Nkamouna include:
1) Land Lease for development sites.
2) Water Use Permit.
The land lease will be registered and issued to GeoCam. GeoCam will pay for the cost of leasing the land and compensation for the loss of alternative resources.
GeoCam will have the right to occupy, build roads, remove vegetation and mine and process cobalt, nickel and associated substances covered in the Mining Convention once the land is leased, in accordance to the GeoCam Mining Convention of August 1, 2002.
The Mine Permit area is totally contained in areas zoned for logging concessions and “multiple use.” All planned mine developments are in logged over areas and are exclusive of “primary forest” designations. Geovic’s mining operations will result in partial deforestation during the mining phase, which represents less than 0.5% of the annual deforested area within the region.
A comprehensive Environmental and Social Assessment (ESA) will meet the laws of Cameroon, and IFC and World Bank standards for financing international projects. Baseline data for the ESA was collected in 2004 and included a consolidation of data from previous environmental studies. Mining, processing and reclamation operations are fully integrated in a manner that minimizes environmental impacts and risks. All permits necessary to construct and operate the project are scheduled for approval by early 2007.
Principal legislative, regulatory and policy considerations relating to the Nkamouna Project are as follows:
A) Environmental Protection: Law No. 96/12 relating to environmental management outlines the general legal framework for environmental management in Cameroon. The law requires that any development must carry out an “impact assessment study.” The new mining code specifies that bonds are required before mine development can commence. The project’s proposed environmental mitigation and rehabilitation practices are reviewed once every four years to determine if the bond is sufficient to cover annual impacts caused by mining activities. The bond is based on an estimated annual cost of environmental impact mitigation of disturbed sites.
B) Law 94/01(Decree No. 94/436) pertains to forest developments. Article 9 prescribes that cutting trees in a state forest can be performed only after an impact study has been conducted. This study will be carried out as part of Geovic’s “site specific” environmental impact assessment report and environmental rehabilitation plan.
C) Law No. 81-13 regulates fishing, hunting and the issuance of related licenses. Also, the law controls the possession or trade in wild animals and trophy hunting and provides for the protection of endangered species. Enforcement measures and penalties are defined in this law, as described in the Geovic environmental plan.
D) Law No. 89/027 addresses specific waste disposal regulations. It pertains to storage, transportation and disposal of hazardous waste. Businesses must declare the volumes and nature of each waste product and ensure elimination of waste without undue risk to people and the environment.
E) Law 84/13 regulates water resources. The government manages and protects state waters such as rivers, lakes and groundwater. Non-state waters include spring, well and drill holes not used by the public, and rainwater falling on private land or collected artificially from roof systems. The use of water for commercial purposes may be sold by the State authority and is subject to permitting, exploitation and conservation taxes.
F) Decree No. 85/758 regulates water use by committee. This committee provides advice in implementing the water code that will include issues such as inventory, conservation, protection, use, effluent treatment and taxation.
Taxes and Royalties
The current statutory income tax rates in Cameroon are 38.5% for corporations. Dividend tax rates are 16.5% for residents and 25% for non-residents. Thus, the effective income plus dividend tax rate is 53.875% for non-residents and 48.648% for residents.
Among other specific benefits, GeoCam’s Strategic Enterprise Regime awarded on December 16, 2002, provides a 50% reduction to these two tax rates for five years during the installation phase, plus 12 years during the exploitation phase. As a result, GeoCam’s tax rates are 19.25% for corporation and 12.5% dividend (8.25% for residents), or a net 29.34% overall tax for the first 17 years of full production. Since approximately 40% of the shareholders are Cameroon residents, the weighted average dividend tax rate for the first 17 years is 10.8% and the effective rate is 27.97%. Dividend tax is based on cash flow after the initial capital is repaid. Pursuant to provisions in the Strategic Enterprise Regime, 25% of the base salaries and wages paid to Cameroonian employees is credited to GeoCam to further reduce taxable income and provide incentives to employ local workers.
In addition, Article 144 of the Mining Code now in effect calls for an ad valorem tax of 2.5% on metals. This is treated as a production tax expense and reduces net income for income tax purposes.
Based on interpretations of the Strategic Enterprise Regime by Geovic and its Cameroonian attorneys, value-added taxes will not be applied to Geovic’s operations. If they apply at a later date, value added taxes are usually recovered against exports and are not expected to have a major impact on the project economics.
Accessibility, Climate, Local Resources, Infrastructure, And Physiography
The closest town to the Nkamouna Project site is Lomie, at approximately 26 kilometers to the west - southwest. The closest railroad transport to the Nkamouna Project is at the town of Belabo, at a distance of approximately 250 kilometers. International airports and modern telecommunication facilities exist at Yaoundé and Douala. Suitable shipping and receiving facilities exist at the international seaport of Douala. Driving from Yaoundé to the Nkamouna Project takes approximately 8 hours.
Access to the Nkamouna Project site is from the seaport of Douala by a well-maintained provincial highway via Yaoundé and Ayos. After Ayos and across the Nyong River, the highway to Central African Republic deteriorates rapidly to a well-traveled 90-kilometer per hour two-lane gravel road to Abong Mbang , however, this road segment has been widened and is being surfaced with asphalt. Completion is scheduled by early 2009. This section of the road is currently prepared for paving. Abong Mbang is the provincial Division headquarters of the Prefect and main administrative and commercial center for the Hyaut Nyong Division. The town hosts a local trade school, service stations, hotels, restaurants and phone service. It is the main administrative center for the Ministry of Environment and Protection of Nature and the Ministry of Industry, Mining and Technological Development. Turning south from Abong Mbang towards Lomie, the road narrows and is frequented by log and lumber trucks over the next 127-kilometer distance to Lomie. The road from Lomie to Kongo village, the site of the GeoCam field camp, supports heavy log and lumber transports, as does the road from Kongo village to the project site.
Lomie is the Subdivision administrative center that hosts the Nkamouna Project and has been the staging area for Geovic’s activities. Lomie has about 3,500 inhabitants, a limited local electrical supply, and very basic services and supplies. There is new telephone service, but no airstrip or approved heliport, and only rudimentary medical facilities. Geovic’s field operations are based from the Kongo Camp, a fully-contained compound near the village of Kongo. The compound has adequate working and sleeping quarters, a diesel generator, satellite-phone facilities, diesel fuel storage, a kitchen with refrigerators, repair shop and sample preparation and storage facilities.
At present it takes about one hour to drive the 40 kilometers between Lomie and the Nkamouna Project site. The economy of Lomie is largely undeveloped, except for a large sawmill and surrounding timber harvesting operations. Local businesses include the Lomie Subdivision’s government headquarters of the sub-prefecture, police station, hospital, parochial schools, shops, three general mercantile stores and the Raffia Motel. Most business activity centers around logging and the local saw mill that is located east of town. Other activities include road maintenance, palm oil production, limited agricultural activities and general commerce. Lomie’s municipality has provided diesel electric power (200kW) to those who can afford it, since 1997. Lomie is the site of a number of domestic and international non-governmental organizations that monitor the 1.3 million acre World Heritage Dja Biosphere reserve and other reserves within the region.
From Lomie, the road passes east to the village of Echiambot where it branches northeast to the Edje River and Kongo village. The first mine site at the Nkamouna Project is located 10 kilometers north of this village. The Mada Project mining plateau is located 20 kilometres north of the Kongo village. The trip from Yaoundé to Kongo village takes about 8 hours by vehicle.
Transport infrastructure in Lomie includes the Huat Nyong Express that carries people four times per day to Yaoundé (18 per bus) and 10 busses per day to Abong Mbang. Motorcycle taxis transport individuals in the Lomie area. Geovic intends to provide, or arrange, scheduled bus and van service between the project and main towns and villages around the project site. Geovic will improve the existing roads and a small, private airstrip will be constructed to service project needs.
The climate of the region is classified as an “Equatorial Guinea” sub-type characterized by two main seasonal types, namely the “main wet” season and “main dry” season, and two minor seasonal types designated as “mini wet” and “mini dry.” The site is located on the northwestern margin of the Congo River tropical zone. The annual maximum monthly temperature ranges from 24° to 33° centigrade. The lowest daily minimum temperature recorded is 12° centigrade, but temperatures normally do not fall below 18° centigrade.
The average annual precipitation over a 32-year period is 1,580 millimeters (62.2 inches) and the humidity is typically high and evaporation rates high on an annual basis. Maximum annual precipitation measured to date totals 2,200 millimeters (86.6 inches). The main wet season occurs between September and early November, and the main dry season occurs from November to May. The mini wet season lasts about eight weeks in March to May, and the mini dry season extends from June to mid-September. Limited amounts of rainfall occur throughout the year, except during the months of December and January, which are typically dry. The average number of rain-free days at site was 229 and days receiving a total of at least 25 mm of precipitation at Nkamouna are 28 per year. Average monthly evaporation rates exceed rainfall during the two dry seasons. Data for 2004 show total precipitation at 1,820 millimeters (71.7 inches), evaporation at 1,951 millimeters (76.9 inches), for a net evaporation of 131 millimeters (5.2 inches). The prevailing wind direction is from the south and southwest, and averages less than 4-kilometers per hour. Wind gusts rarely exceed 8 kilometers per hour, and are commonly undetectable beneath the tree canopy near the proposed Plant site. The operating season is year-round.
As currently envisioned, there are four waste and low-grade streams generated from the tailings disposal process. The two main waste streams from the metal recovery plant (the “MRP”) are manganese precipitate and the counter-current decantation (the “CCD”) leach tails. The manganese precipitate will be stored in a segregated area of the mine (557 tonnes per day (“tpd”)) and the CCD leach tails (1,824 tpd) will be co-disposed with the physical upgrades (the “PUG”) tails in the Napene Creek tailings storage facility (the “TSF”).
Knight Piésold concluded that the water balance for the NCTSF will operate in a water deficit condition. The 2007 design minimizes the water pumping requirements from the Edje River, as the Edje River was viewed as a more abundant water source during the 2006 design. Diversion ditches around the tailing basin have not been included in the 2007 design, as the facility may be in a water deficit condition. Diversion ditches could be incorporated to divert water around the facility or into the facility depending on the water needs at the time. Additional requirements regarding water quality and potential uses or discharges will be finalized based on the results of additional waste characterization during the detail engineering phase of the project.
Approximately 839 m3/h of return water is needed for process plant operations and will be obtained from the Edje River floodplain about 2 km west of the plant site, water reclaimed from the NCTSF, or diversion of water around the NTCSF.
Abundant water is available from shallow wells to be completed in the Edje River floodplain; however, much of the process water will be recycled from the TSF. Mining, processing and housing facilities will each be provided with sewage collection and treatment systems.
To support the mining and milling operations at Nkamouna, a number of ancillary facilities will be required. These include energy generation, a mobile equipment maintenance shop, warehouse, reagent storage building, laboratory, and administration offices.
Combined Heat and Power (“CHP”) units fuelled by locally harvested wood are expected to produce total project requirements of electrical energy. A temporary construction camp will be installed and used until permanent housing can be obtained to meet project operating requirements. On-site accommodations will be provided for expatriate staff, most of who will be scheduled for about six weeks on site and two to three weeks to their destination of choosing. Housing and other community assistance will be provided to local employees, who will be drawn from nearby villages.
The vegetation in plateau areas is typical of an “evergreen equatorial forest” characterized by diverse endemic plant species. The forest area is stratified in three layers, including the 40-meter tall tree canopy characterized by broad-crown diameters and straight limbless trunks; shorter, more slender, fast-growing, narrow crown-diameter, fragile trees form the intermediate layer; and the scanty undergrowth layer consisting of vines, brush and ferns. Trees of local economic importance include Ayos, Sapelli, Wengive, Iroka, Bubinga, Azobe, and Obeche. Other diverse species occur in swamplands and patches of dense wet-substrate dominated valley floors.
Recent logging has occurred throughout most of the mineralized areas within the Mine Permit. The extent of this logging is documented on satellite images and by ground surveys. These logging activities are independent of Geovic’s operations and were part of pre-existing timber leases within the Mine Permit area.
The central part of the Nkamouna mineral district is dominated by a series of rolling upland plateaus that are isolated by several river systems that feed into the main Congo River drainage basin. Elevations in the province range from about 450 meters along the lower Dja River to 927 meters above sea level at Mount Guimbiri, located east of Abong Mbang. The local upland plateau in the vicinity of the Nkamouna mine site presents an elevation of about 700 meters.
The Nkamouna ore deposit is relatively flat and has an average depth of 15 meters. The majority of the deposit is situated downslope from the process plant site and has a natural grade of approximately 5 % with upper elevations around 760 meters and lower elevations near 610 meters. The deposit is a crescent shape about 4 kilometers from east to west and 2 kilometers from north to south. The process plant site is adjacent to the mine and near the top of a saddle at an approximate elevation of 700 meters above sea level.
History
The Nkamouna Project consists of an enriched cobalt-nickel-manganese-iron lateritic deposit located within an extensive mineral province in southeastern Cameroon, Africa. Nickeliferous laterite deposits in southeast Cameroon were first discovered and investigated by the United Nations Development Programme (the “UNDP”) during 1981-1986, in a cooperative project with the Cameroon Ministry of Mines, Water and Energy to evaluate mineral potential in southeastern Cameroon. Following a regional stream sediment geochemical survey which indicated the likely presence of laterite nickel mineralization, the UNDP project drilled eleven core holes in the Nkamouna area.
Several of the UNDP holes intersected laterite and saprolite with interesting nickel and cobalt values. Due to the remote location and the low nickel prices at the time, the discovery did not draw much attention.
William Buckovic, Geovic founder, became aware of the nickel discovery in 1988, subsequent to submitting a proposal in 1986 to explore for minerals to the Cameroon Ministry of Mines. No recorded exploration or mining had taken place on the property since the UNDP work. After assaying samples he was able to obtain from the area, Mr. Buckovic noted in 1994 a higher than typical nickel/cobalt ratio characterizing the Cameroon deposits. This high ratio was confirmed by the assay results from the UN coring program. Mr. Buckovic was also aware of recent advances in Australia and elsewhere in the hydrometallurgical processing of previously sub-economic nickel laterite deposits. As a result, in 1995 he helped form GeoCam to investigate these unusual but potentially promising deposits and in this regard, the company was granted a 19,600 square kilometer prospecting permit covering the mineral province.
By 2004, Geovic had largely completed the reconnaissance sampling and had undertaken pitting and drilling patterns of varying spacing at Nkamouna where access was greater due to recent logging operations, with an eye toward defining deposit parameters for an eventual feasibility study.
Most of the work at Nkamouna has been performed by Geovic employees and consultants on behalf of GeoCam. Early geological and sampling oversight was provided by Mr. Buckovic and various consultants. Metallurgical and other testing has been performed from time to time by Bateman Engineering, Inc of Tucson, Arizona, METCON Research, Inc. of Tucson, Pittsburgh Metallurgical and Environmental Inc. (“PMET”) of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, The Consultant Research of Golden, Colorado, Knight Piesold of Denver, Colorado, and others.
The Nkamouna property is undeveloped, as are the adjacent laterite Plateaus.
Geology Setting
Regional Setting
Southeastern Cameroon lies within a region of metamorphosed Proterozoic rocks ranging in age from 1800 to 600 million years and extending across parts of several west-central African countries. In southeastern Cameroon, several assemblages of such metamorphic rocks have been mapped and named. In the Nkamouna Project area, the Mbalmayo-Bengbis Series, one of several “series” comprising the Intermediate Series, consists principally of chloritic and sericitic schists and quartzites. Also included in the series are extensive metamorphosed felsic, mafic volcanic and volcaniclastic rocks. These rocks are post-Eburnean (i.e. younger than 1800 million years) and are cut by basic dikes. The original depositional age of the sediments was probably 1800 to 1400 million years, with metamorphism to almandine-amphibolite facies occurring about 1200 million years ago, likely coincident with the Kibaran Orogeny.
The schists and quartzites contain inliers of ultramafic rock, which were probably emplaced long after deposition of the original sedimentary rocks. Due to poor exposures, the contact relations are unclear, but the ultramafic bodies appear to be emplaced along north-trending regional fractures, which apparently allowed emplacement of ultramafic rocks of deep-seated origin.
Local Geology
The region within a 300-km radius of the Nkamouna Project Area in Cameroon, Gabon, Congo, and Central African Republic has few producing mineral deposits and few with near-term production potential. Most of this region of west-central Africa is underlain by Proterozoic granite-gneiss-schist terrains, broadly similar to the rocks in the Nkamouna Project Area. Within the region, ultramafic rocks, the original source of the cobalt and nickel, are confined to the Nkamouna Project Area. There has been no previous production of minerals from the Nkamouna Project Area.
Alluvial gold is exploited on a small scale from stream gravels in various parts of Cameroon, Gabon, Congo, and Central African Republic. Few statistics are available because all production in the region is from artisanal sources. In the southwest part of the Central African Republic, alluvial gold is accompanied by small quantities of alluvial diamonds in streams which drain Cretaceous sandstone and conglomerates exposed further east. The Cretaceous formations do not extend into Cameroon.
Deposits of iron ore are reported to exist in south-central Cameroon, north of the Gabon border, but little information is available about these deposits. The UNDP also evaluated several iron ore and limestone deposits. At Belinga in northeast Gabon, a stratiform iron deposit contains several hundred million tonnes of 64% iron, but with high phosphorus content (+0.1% P). This deposit has not been exploited on an appreciable scale.
Small amounts of alluvial tin and rutile are extracted from streams in the region, also in quantities that are locally important to village economies but are not industrially significant. Limestone deposits occur in the Proterozoic rocks, about 50 km southeast of Lomie. These deposits were drilled by the UNDP in 1981, but they have not been exploited on a large scale.
Elsewhere in Cameroon, mining of non-fuel minerals is in its infancy, with one cement plant being the only sizeable mineral producer. Occurrences or resources of bauxite exist in northern and western Cameroon. An aluminium smelter near Douala processes only imported alumina. There is little in the way of a mining culture or infrastructure in the country at present.
Property Geology
The cobalt-nickel deposits are hosted in residual laterites which have formed by prolonged tropical weathering of serpentinites. Large areas of mineralized laterite, each several square kilometers in extent, have been preserved on low-relief mesas or plateaus underlain by ultramafic rocks that stand above the surrounding dissected lowlands. Nkamouna and Mada are two such plateaus. Most of the plateaus are underlain by ultramafic rocks, with some areas of schist, phyllite, and quartzite. The surrounding lowlands are underlain by schists, phyllites, quartzites, and meta-volcanics of the Intermediate Series. The bedrock geology at Nkamouna has been mapped by Geovic geologists through a combination of natural exposures, soil mapping, and, most importantly, observation of weathered or fresh rock encountered in pits and drillholes. Mapping of detailed structures, attitudes of foliation or fractures, etc. is generally not practical except in the deeper pits. Rock from pits, drillholes, and rare exposures indicate that the fresh underlying rock at Nkamouna is a pervasively-sheared serpentinite.
Most serpentinites form from parental ultramafic rocks, as a result of hydration and shearing at moderate temperatures, either during emplacement of the ultramafic or during post-emplacement tectonism. At Nkamouna, petrographic evidence suggests that the parent rock to the serpentinite was probably a dunite (rock containing +90 percent olivine). Minor amounts of chrysotile asbestos, a common accessory mineral in serpentinites, are reported from one pit in the Mada area located beneath the mineralized zone. Metasedimentary rocks (quartz-muscovite schist, phyllite, and quartzite) occupy the borders of the serpentinite, and also occur as inliers within the serpentinites. Locally, lateritic soils with schist fragments overlie serpentinite bedrock due to the gravity-induced creep of soils down-slope.
Exploration
Nickeliferous laterite deposits in southeast Cameroon were first discovered and investigated by the UNDP during 1981-1986, in a cooperative project with the Cameroon Ministry of Mines, Water and Energy. Following a regional stream sediment geochemical survey which indicated the likely presence of laterite nickel mineralization, the UNDP project drilled eleven core holes in the Nkamouna area, which was the most accessible laterite area at that time.
Several of the UNDP holes intersected laterite and saprolite with interesting nickel and cobalt values. The first hole, KG-S-1, traversed 56 meters of lateritic profile and fresh serpentinite, with nickel values up to 1.00% and cobalt values up to 0.19%. Due to the remote location and the low nickel prices at the time, the discovery did not draw much attention.
The UNDP holes were undertaken several years prior to Geovic’s investigations. The drill apparatus, technical personnel, sampling procedures, and assaying practice were entirely different from those used subsequently by Geovic. Therefore, PAH believes that inclusion of the UNDP drillhole data is unwarranted for resource calculations. These 11 holes represent less than one percent of the total sample openings at Nkamouna. In any case, the sites of most of the UNDP holes were subsequently surrounded by gridded Geovic drillholes and pits, and the effective influence of the UNDP holes on resource tonnage calculations is negligible.
In January 1999, GeoCam received an Exploration Permit, PDR 67, that covered 4,876 square kilometers and specifically allowed exploration drilling. Geovic’s program initially was based entirely on manually-dug test pits, and later incorporated drilling and limited trenching. The program began at Nkamouna and was later extended to Mada and the other Plateaus, which were identified by satellite images and air photos.
Geologists from the Cameroon Ministry of Mines, Water and Energy participated in the work to provide government oversight as well as training. Geovic’s core-drilling program began in 1999, after many hundreds of pits had been completed. A total of 23 holes were drilled in the northeast part of West Nkamouna, on an approximate 100-meter grid.
A Mining Convention was signed on July 31, 2002 by the Ministry of Mines, Water, and Power of the Republic of Cameroon that defined the general, legal, financial, tax, economic, administrative, customs, social, land and environmental conditions under which GeoCam shall undertake the mining of cobalt, nickel, and their associated substances within GeoCam’s Exploration Permit area. On April 11, 2003, Mining Permit No. 33, which replaced the Exploration Permit, was issued by decree granting an exclusive right to GeoCam to exploit the deposits and the area was reduced to 1,250 square kilometers, which includes approximately 337 square kilometers of cobalt-nickel mineralized lands.
In 2002, Geovic imported an Australian-designed, truck-mounted machine. Holes drilled with this machine are referred to in Geovic reports as “air core” holes, but intact core is not produced, only drill cuttings typical of reverse-circulation drilling. Reverse-circulation holes were drilled between May 2002 and September 2003, when 176 holes totalling 3,690 meters were drilled at Nkamouna. Most of these holes were drilled as fill-ins on a series of lines which had already been sampled by pitting, generally at distances greater than 100 meters between drillholes. Several of these were twins (within 5 meters) of previous pits, and several others were later twinned by pits sunk on the drillhole collar. Twenty-two holes were drilled on a tight grid of approximately 15 x 15 meters in West Nkamouna, to test the short-term variability between holes.
By 2003, Geovic had largely completed the pitting program at Mada. Much more intensive work was carried out on the nearby Nkamouna Project, due to the better access there utilizing recent logging roads.
By 2004, Geovic had largely completed the reconnaissance sampling and had undertaken pitting and drilling programs of varying densities at Nkamouna where access was greater due to recent logging operations, with an eye toward defining deposit parameters for an eventual feasibility study.
Mineralization
Cobalt-nickel mineralization in the Geovic deposits occurs within the weathering profile overlying sheared, serpentinized ultramafic rocks. The lateritic weathering profile averages about 20 meters thick, but exceptionally extends to 40 meters near ridge crests or in fracture zones. The mineralized laterite forms lenses which average a minimum of about 10 meters thick. The lenses often lie generally parallel to the rolling topography of the Nkamouna plateau. They are relatively smooth on top, but irregular on the bottom, where weathering has penetrated downward into fractures and shear zones in the underlying serpentinite.
Most of the economic mineralization in each deposit is in one interval containing about 1 meter of ferricrete breccia and 4 meters of ferralite. The ore types are characterized geologically by their mineral content, bulk composition, and texture, as described below. The deposit’s unusual concentration of the coarsely aggregated ore mineral asbolane is highly significant, as is the thick ferricrete breccia and abundant maghemite.
The Cameroon laterite profiles, similar to those elsewhere in humid tropical environments, show a strong vertical zonation, which reflects the transition from unweathered host rock at the base, to highly-leached residues at the surface. The Cameroon laterites depart from the norm somewhat, in possessing two layers of iron-rich laterite, between which lies ferricrete breccia. The lower portion of the profile under the breccia includes the limonitic ferralite and underlying saprolite zones which are more typical of humid tropical laterite profiles.
Descriptive details about these units are below, modified slightly from Geovic descriptions. Most of the Geovic reports refer to Nkamouna material, but perusal of logs from Mada show a similar stratigraphy.
Upper Laterite (UL). A purplish-red, highly magnetic, powdery clay-like soil. Ubiquitous, normally 4 to 8 m thick, except where removed by erosion at the borders of laterite plateaus. This unit will be easy to excavate for completing test shafts and for mining.
Ferricrete Breccia. Beneath the Upper Laterite is a nearly ubiquitous horizon of ferruginous concretions, ranging in size from pisolites one or two cm across, to blocks larger than a meter across. Large blocks have complex structures, characterized by multiple stages of brecciation, with vesicular, tubular structures, and amoeboid shaped cavities. They are composed of agglutinated pisolites and angular ferricrete fragments, with some limonitic matrix. Ferricrete fragments are typically dark red outside and varicolored on fresh surfaces. Where the blocks were large enough to impede deepening of pits, the ferricrete breccia was formerly referred to as “Hardpan” (“HP”). The ferricrete breccia averages 6 to 8 meters thick, and was often divided into two or three units by project geologists.
The Upper Ferricrete Breccia (“UB”) is typically pisolitic and relatively low in cobalt and nickel except locally where stained with black manganese oxides.
HP is the most highly-cemented ferricrete breccia and is very difficult to penetrate with hand tools. It forms outcrops in some areas, particularly at the borders of the lateritic plateaus, and averages 2 meters thick. Where present, it grades upward and downward into UB and LB, respectively.
The Lower Ferricrete Breccia (“LB”) consists of reddish concretions, with abundant black manganese oxides, texturally similar to UB, with a matrix of Ferralite (“FL”). It is typically 1 to 2 meters thick, and +2% cobalt may occur at the base, especially where concretion-like aggregates of asbolane occur. It is hard to dig with hand tools.
Ferralite (FL). Limonitic laterite, sometimes pulverulent, mottled, with varied shades of black, yellow, brown and red. Often foliated, reflecting relict serpentinite textures. Local maghemite occurs near top. Thickness varies from a few meters to tens of meters, averaging near 8 meters. Consistently mineralized with good metal grades near the top where black manganese zones occur, moderate to low cobalt grades lower in the unit. The MgO content is very low, averaging about 0.5% MgO, part of which is present as non-reactive MgO in spinel (i.e., magnesian chromite). This unit is easy to moderately easy to excavate for completing test shafts and for mining.
Silcrete (SI). This highly-discontinuous unit may lie at the boundary between the Ferralite and the upper Saprolite. It is composed of subhorizontal plates of white to grey silica, intercalated with varicolored clays. Usually 0.5 meters thick or less, and often absent. Commonly has low metal contents and is very hard to dig. It is generally interpreted to mark a former water table, and often occurs just above the current water table.
Saprolite zone (SP). Composed of green, sticky clay with less than 50% fragments of partly weathered serpentinite, grading downward into foliated, fractured serpentinite. May have silica-filled steep fractures. Relatively poor in cobalt, often rich in nickel. Averages 1.5 meters thick. Moderate to hard digging. Saprolite typically contains less than 40% iron and elevated MgO (15 to 30%).
Serpentinite (SE). Bedrock, olive green to dark green, may be fractured and fissile, with silica-filled fractures. Uniformly low metals grades except in rare cases where garnierite-like nickeliferous silicates fill fractures. Relatively hard. Rarely encountered in pits, mainly in drillholes. Magnesium grades are typically greater than 35% and iron contents are usually less than 10 %.
Water Table. The depth to the water table was recorded in 32 of the Geovic reverse-circulation drill holes. In all but seven of these holes, the water table was between 12 and 25 meters below surface, and was usually within the Ferralite or at the upper limit of Serpentinite.
The minerals of economic interest in the Nkamouna laterites occur in general, as fine-grained clay-like or concretionary masses, and are only occasionally identifiable as discretely visible mineral specimens. One exception is gibbsite, which may occur as mammilary masses or vug-fillings of radiating transparent to milky white crystals several millimeters long. Of great significance is the size of asbolane agglomerates and wad that host the cobalt and almost all of the manganese.
The key mineral in the Geovic deposits, which hosts the cobalt, most of the manganese, and a significant part of the nickel, is asbolane. Between one-third and one-half of the deposit’s nickel is hosted in asbolane.
This mineral is sometimes referred to as “asbolan” or “asbolite” in the scientific literature, or “wad” or “cobalt wad” as field terms. Asbolane is widespread in nickeliferous laterites, but elsewhere is usually present in very small amounts and is normally inconspicuous as black blebs on fractures. Individual asbolane crystals have hexagonal symmetry, a Mohs hardness of 6, and are very dark in color. Typically, individual crystals are rarely visible to the naked eye or a hand lens; rather, the mineral forms blackish patches or crusts on fractures and cavities. The asbolane occurrence at Nkamouna is unusual in that it occurs as both discrete platy crystals and in larger and coarser crystal aggregates and fine-grained wad up to 5 cm in diameter, sometimes as concretion-like nodules with chromite and goethite. It also occurs as a fine intergrowth with chromium and iron oxides and hydroxides.
Asbolane is critical to the Nkamouna Project economics, because it occurs as coarser aggregates of microscopic crystals, the aggregates being separable by crushing and wet screening from the pulverulent iron-oxide minerals and clays. The resulting coarse fraction contains most of the cobalt and manganese, and a significant portion of the nickel in the raw material, resulting in a significantly upgraded concentrate prior to leaching.
Drilling
Because the GeoCam deposits are secondary, which represent the decomposition products of bedrock, they present the data-generation issues which are typical of laterites: sampling of intermixed material which ranges from very soft to very hard, and which varies greatly in metal grade from one particle to the next, especially in the ferricrete breccia lithologies.
The only drilling on the properties has been at Nkamouna. The majority of all samples have been obtained by developing pits or shafts of a nominal 1.2 meter diameter.
Most of the sampling at Nkamouna, and nearly all sampling in the other laterite areas, has been by pitting, with a lesser amount from drilling. Direct sampling of outcrops and trenches is almost entirely limited to Trench 1 at Nkamouna.
The majority of Geovic’s resource sampling has been hand-dug pits. Geovic has historically referred to the pits as both “pits” or “shafts.” In the Nkamouna area, Geovic has excavated 1,099 pits. The pit sampling program continued during drier weather in East Nkamouna, the area east of the Kongo-Ndu road, until September 2004. Pits are numbered from 101 to 1400 (with gaps). The density of pitting varies from about 50 x 50 meters to 150 x 200 meters, but is not uniformly gridded.
Two trenches have been excavated at Nkamouna. The first extending 20 meters east from the site of Pit 923. Dug by hand, it is up to 8.5 meters deep, and has a 5-meter north-to-south extension in the middle. The trench is located on the western edge of the Nkamouna plateau, west of some natural exposures of ferricrete, at a location where the Upper Limonite has apparently been removed by erosion. Thus most of the trench exposes ferricrete, not reaching the ferralite or saprolite. The trench site was selected by Geovic primarily to determine whether blasting is necessary in the ferricrete. The second trench was excavated in the southeast part of Nkamouna. This trench was excavated with bulldozers and included deepening by hand dug pits. Results from this trench have not been completed and no data from the second trench been used in the resource estimation.
United Nations Drillholes. The first documented samples ever taken at Nkamouna were the eleven holes drilled by the UNDP in the mid 1980s. The UNDP used a J.K. Smit Model 300 diamond-drill rig. PAH examined the original drill log for hole KG-S-1, at Nkamouna. This hole was collared with a BQ bit (36.5 mm core OD) to 6.0 meters, then deepened to 53.5 meters with an AW bit (30.0 mm core OD), and finished to sound serpentinite at 56.75 meters with an AG (28.5 mm core OD) bit size. The recovery in hole KG-S-1 was only about 50% in the top 6 meters, but increased with depth as more competent laterite was encountered, averaging about 90% below 6 meters.
The UNDP holes were undertaken several years prior to Geovic’s investigations. The drill apparatus, technical personnel, sampling procedures, and assaying practice were entirely different from those used subsequently by Geovic. The sites of most of the UNDP holes were subsequently surrounded by gridded Geovic drillholes and pits, and the effective influence of the UNDP holes on resource tonnage calculations would be negligible.
Geovic Core Drillholes. No further drilling was undertaken at Nkamouna until Geovic’s core-drilling program in 1999, after many hundreds of pits had been completed and an exploration permit was obtained over the mineralized areas. The first rig used was a trailer-mounted 20-horsepower core drill which could be hand-pushed along forest trails to minimize environmental impacts in prospective areas. A total of 23 holes were drilled (NKM-21 to NKM-43) in the northeast part of West Nkamouna, on an approximate 100-meter grid. The maximum depth reached was 33 meters, with an average hole depth of 26.1 meters, for a total of 600 meters drilled.
Recovery was generally good. In the limonite horizons (upper and lower), it was 90% on average, and 40 to 90% in breccias. In the saprolite, it was consistently below 70% with values of 30% recorded in zones containing serpentinite fragments. Since most of the economically-mineralized material at Nkamouna is lower ferricrete breccia or ferralite, the recovery in these zones of interest was probably near 90%.
Reverse-Circulation Drillholes. In 2002, Geovic imported an Australian-designed, truck-mounted machine. Holes drilled with this machine are referred to in Geovic reports as “air core” holes, but intact core is not produced, only drill cuttings, typical of reverse circulation drilling.
This machine uses three chisel-type or finger-type tungsten carbide bits to cut the laterite, and recovers material by air or water flushing through the inner pipe of a double-walled reverse-circulation recovery system, from the bit to the surface. The outer tube has an external diameter of 74.4 mm, while the inner tube has an internal diameter of 36.6 mm. The drill uses compressed air or water with Baroid mud at 150 psi as the drilling fluid. Water was used to flush the drill stem, bit, and cyclone between one-meter sample runs. The drill pipe is in 3-meter sections.
A two-person drill crew and three labor assistants attend the drill, plus a geologist. Set-up time and tear-down time is 5 to 10 minutes. A 30-meter hole can typically be drilled in 2 hours, when no drilling difficulty is encountered.
The reverse-circulation drill was used between May 2002 and September 2003, when 176 holes (NKM 1010 to 1185, plus NKM-3.3) totalling 3,690.25 meters were drilled at Nkamouna. Most of these holes were drilled as fill-in holes on a series of lines which had already been sample by pitting, generally at distances greater than 100 meters between drillholes. Several of these were twins (within 5 meters) of previous pits, and several others were later twinned by pits sunk on the drillhole collar. About 20 holes were drilled on a tight grid of approximately 15 x 15 meters in West Nkamouna, to test the short-range variability from one hole to the next.
Sampling and Analysis
Geovic maintains a sample-preparation facility at the Kongo Camp, where samples are prepared for assay. PAH reviewed the procedures in detail, and photographed each stage. The sample bags normally used by Geovic are white double-thickness polyester, with a drawstring at the neck and a label sewn inside the neck. The geologist writes the sample identifier on the inside label and on the outside of the bag, with a permanent marking pen.
Most of the sample points were exposed and sampled by test pits, dug using simple hand tools by local labor crews. A gasoline-driven air blower and 20 meters of vinyl tubing are normally available to provide air when a pit is poorly ventilated, usually at a depth of more than 13 meters. Each pit is normally circular in section and 1.2 meters in diameter, although the diameter may vary slightly.
Spoil not included in the sampling program from the pit is deposited in piles around the pit, but is not rigorously segregated by depth interval. Changes in texture (breccia, limonite) or conspicuous changes in color warranted segregation. A sample is collected each meter by cutting a rectangular groove in one wall of the pit, measuring 10 by 5 cm. When more than one sample is collected from an interval concurrently, these are oriented following the main cardinal compass points. Each pit is visited once or several times daily by a geologist to log geology, check channel progress, collect the samples from the intervals extended in his absence, and to decide whether to continue digging.
The trench in Nkamouna West was intensively sampled after excavation, by channel samples. Since the trench represents effectively only one sample point in a previously-pitted area, and because the main purpose of the trench was for geotechnical information, the trench samples were not used in the resource calculations.
Sample intervals generally varied between 0.5 and 1.65 meters. Each interval was logged by color and texture, and by mineralogy where noted. All samples were analyzed for nickel, cobalt, manganese, chromium, copper, zinc, lead and MgO. Composites representing 5 to 10 meters were analyzed for Fe2O3.
The Geovic diamond-drill holes drilled in 1999 were sampled at 1.0- or 1.5-meter intervals generally, although there were many exceptions due to geological breaks and coring intervals. Core from the laterite zone (earthy) was air-dried, crushed, split and halved, with one half sent for assay. The core from the partly weathered, hard serpentinite was cut into two equal parts along the vertical axis of the core, and one part was forwarded for assay while the other was left as backup in the sample store.
Geovic’s reverse-circulation holes, drilled during 2002 and 2003, were almost invariably sampled at one-meter intervals. The reverse-circulation pathway, including the cyclone and collection buckets, was flushed with water after collection of each one-meter interval, to prevent cross-contamination. The sample expelled by the cyclone, including the water used to flush the sample pathway, was logged by the drill geologist for geology, and drilling parameters (for example, wet vs. dry, hardness, and unusual sample volume).
After the sample-recovery bucket has stood until most fines had settled, the clear water at the top was decanted, and the wet sample placed in a previously-labelled bag. At the end of the day, the bags were transported to Kongo Camp.
As is typical of reverse-circulation drilling, precise measurement of the recovery percentage was not possible.
Water-soluble polymer (“Baroid EZ Mud”) was used to maintain recovery in clay-rich intervals in the lowermost ferralite and upper saprolite horizons. It is recognized that sample recovery in these intervals was unsatisfactory, but these horizons are rarely of economic cobalt grade.
Geovic commissioned a careful study of potential down-hole contamination. The prominent “manganese spike” typically present near the base of the breccia in drillhole assays revealed that vertical cross-contamination is negligible, since the “manganese spike” in drillholes is just as sharp as it is in channel samples taken from pits.
Upon arrival from the field in polyethylene woven bags, the samples are stored in a sheltered locality until processed. Each bag is opened, the sample placed in a steel tray for drying, and an aluminium tag bearing the information on the sample bag placed on the tray. After drying, the sample is quartered, placed in a clearly labelled plastic bag, with the location and interval. Another aluminium tag is prepared which accompanies the sample, all the way to arrival and re-coding of samples in the U.S. The aluminium tag placed in the steel tray before oven drying remains with the back-up sample on the shelves in the warehouse.
Drying of samples is accomplished in a wood-fired oven. The temperature is not recorded, but appears to be in the vicinity of 100 degrees C, plus or minus 20 degrees. Samples are examined manually from time to time to determine the degree of dryness, and normally after six or seven hours are judged to be sufficiently dry for further processing.
Upon removal from the oven and cooling, each sample is inspected visually for oversize material (coarser than approximately 2 cm). Oversize material is manually crushed in a mortar and pestle and returned to the sample tray. At this point, the dried sample is reviewed again by a geologist to ensure that the on-site logging did not miss important features due to excessive mud in the case of RC drilling samples or poor light.
The sample is then split in a Jones-type riffle splitter with openings measuring 10 mm. Normally a 200-gram dried sample is weighed and bagged for shipment to the assay lab. All remaining reject is bagged and stored at Kongo Camp.
The shipment of samples follows the Australian Code for Reporting of Minerals and Ore Reserves (the “JORC Code”) procedures regarding chain of custody. Samples are shipped by vehicle to Geovic’s office in Yaoundé, whence they are delivered to a common carrier for air-freighting to North America.
From 1995 until early 1999, Geovic contracted the Ministry of Mines’ geologists and engineers to oversee the Quality Assurance/Quality Control (the “QA/QC”) for Cameroon samples. All but the later 64-samples were sent to Bondar-Clegg (Intertec Testing Services, No. Vancouver, British Columbia) for assaying cobalt, nickel and some chromium and manganese. Bondar-Clegg pulverized the samples to minus-150 mesh, then inserted duplicates and standards into the sample stream before analysis. The last 64-samples were handled by Mintec.
From 2002 until early 2004, Geovic, on behalf of GeoCam contracted Mintec, to oversee the QA/QC for Cameroon samples. Mintec provided new 4-digit sample numbers to each sample, before sending the samples to Actlabs Inc. (“Actlabs”) in Tucson. Actlabs then pulverized the samples to minus-150 mesh and returned the pulps to Mintec. Mintec then inserted duplicates, standards, and blanks into the sample stream prior to returning the pulps to Actlabs for analysis.
It is apparent to PAH that Geovic personnel, R.K. Duncan & Associates, and Mintec have paid close attention to sampling and sample-processing techniques, and have varied the techniques from time to time, based on careful analysis of results, including comparisons between different methods. PAH believe that Geovic’s collection and handling of samples meet or exceed industry standards for laterite projects, and that any limitations on precision and accuracy of samples are those limitations inherent in the laterite deposits themselves and in assaying technology.
Bondar-Clegg initially used 3-acid digestion of samples (HF, HCl, and HNO3) and “low-level” AAS in 1995. Later, Bondar-Clegg used 4-acid digestion (HF, HCl, HNO3, and HClO4) with ICP analyses (1999-2001). Actlabs used 3-acid digestion and ICP analyses. Geovic switched to Actlabs in 2002 in order to pay for one-half of the analyses with a U.S. Trade and Development Agency (USTDA) loan, requiring a certified, U.S. based laboratory.
Between January 2003 and January 2004, a total of 3,359 sample results were shipped to Actlabs for processing at an assaying cost of US$11.90 per sample. Of these, 3,095 were original samples from Nkamouna, plus 39 second splits and 162 standards included with Nkamouna samples. (The remaining 63 samples during this period were from the Mada deposit, north of Nkamouna.) Altogether, more than 14,000 Nkamouna samples were assayed for cobalt and nickel during 1995-2004. Many of these samples were also assayed for manganese and other elements and compounds.
The samples received at Bondar-Clegg and Actlabs in Tucson were dried for 24 hours at 150°C. According to the mineralogical literature on asbolane, there should be no loss of chemically combined water or hydroxyl ions below 150°C. Thus the subsequent assays reflect intact dry asbolane, which is lacking only any loosely-bound water that is not included in the calculated dry tonnes of mineral resource.
Actlabs’ facilities are accredited to ISO/IEC-17025 and CAN-P-1579 (Canadian) standards, and are thus as fully accredited as a commercial mining assay laboratory.
Following the drying at Actlabs facilities, as discussed above, pulps of Geovic samples were digested in a 3-acid solution and 4-acid solutions and analyzed primarily by the ICP-OES (Inductively Coupled Plasma Optical Emission Spectrometry) method for Co, Ni and Mn. The 3-acid digestion is normally sufficient to dissolve all minerals typically present in the Nkamouna samples.
Various other appropriate methods were used for occasional analyses of 34 other elements (Pb, Zn, Cu, Cr, V, Mg, Al, Sc, Zr, MgO, SiO2, etc.) for bulk samples and other specialty samples.
Security of Samples
Various inter-laboratory checks have been undertaken by Geovic on behalf of GeoCam throughout the life of the project.
In 1999, K.D. Engineering Co Inc. (“Global Engineering”) of Tucson, Arizona, visited Nkamouna and undertook to re-sample eight exploration pits. Samples were taken separately from one-meter intervals in channels in the east and west wall of each pit. Splits of each crushed sample were sent for pulverizing and assay to three different laboratories: International Plasma Laboratories (Vancouver); Bondar Clegg Intertek Testing Services (“Bondar Clegg”) (Vancouver); and, Genalysis Laboratories (“Genalysis”) (Perth, Australia). The laboratories did not include Actlabs, which subsequently assayed the greater bulk of Nkamouna samples. K.D. Engineering’s report indicates that Genalysis and Bondar Clegg agreed closely on cobalt assays (difference of less than 2% relative, and a Coefficient of Determination (“R2”) of 0.987), whereas the International Plasma results averaged more than 10% low, with R2, of less than 0.95 when compared to either of the other two labs. No further samples were analyzed by International Plasma.
The samples assayed by Actlabs were submitted to both Actlabs’ and Geovic’s independent QA/QC checks. The use of second splits and sample standards are universally recognized methods to provide confidence in the assaying reliability.
The Actlabs laboratory runs assay batches of 24 prepared pulp samples, comprising 20 samples plus repeats on the 1st and 20th samples of each batch, in addition to two in-house standards. One sample per client’s submitted batch of 20 is reweighed along with both an in-house and a certified reference standard of known cobalt-nickel-manganese content. Actlabs’ internal checks allow for a maximum acceptable variance of 2% for duplicates and standards.
Geovic undertook a comprehensive program of comparing second sample splits from Nkamouna. The pairs of samples extracted from the same sample intervals show a high degree of correlation for cobalt, nickel and manganese, providing confidence in the ability of Actlabs to generate reproducible assay results from similar sample material. Although the sample-split campaign did not include Mada, there is every expectation that similar results would accrue, given the similarities in geology, sampling methods, and analytical methods.
The 39 second splits for which assay results have been received, distributed throughout 35 sample submission shipments, were extracted from the same sample rejects stored at the Project Camp (Kongo) as the original samples. Once an original 200 gram sample was drawn, the reject was remixed (further ensuring complete homogenization) and a second sample was drawn and had a “D” added to the sample number. After sample preparation by Actlabs, all sample pulps were assigned an individual number by Mintec prior to the actual assaying at Actlabs.
At the request of Geovic on behalf of GeoCam in 2003, Mintec fabricated five sample control standards of known cobalt, nickel and manganese value from on-hand Nkamouna material, thereby ensuring that there was no visual difference between the standards and regular samples. The results of 165 analyses of these five standards, distributed throughout 35 sample submission shipments, were received by January 2004.
Perusal of the results strongly suggested that some of the standards had been mislabelled or switched in 32 of the 165 submitted. Mintec personnel therefore examined the anomalous assays of standards, and were able to reassign most of them to the proper standard, according to the cobalt, nickel and manganese assays received. Three submitted standard samples did not match any of the five original standards, and it is likely that these three samples were switched with ordinary production samples at the laboratory. Three of 168 is about 2% probably not an atypical error rate for switching of samples in production runs. Nevertheless, given that Actlabs are an ISO-certified facility, PAH is prepared to accept the general veracity of the assays on Nkamouna samples.
Mineral Resource and Mineral Reserves
This Section describes the resource and reserve model for the Nkamouna Project.
Nkamouna Resource and Reserve Model
A mineral resource estimate was prepared for the Nkamouna area using a three-dimensional block model to estimate cobalt, nickel, and manganese grade for individual blocks with dimensions of 10 by 10-meters horizontal by 1-meter vertical. In addition, lithology codes and resource classification codes were defined for each block. This estimate updated the prefeasibility model with additional data, including: 162 deepened pits, five additional pits, and revised topography data. The 2007 assay database contains 4 percent greater assay intervals than the 2005 database. The updated resource estimation was done with Datamine Studio 3.0 geologic modeling software, although the methodology remains essentially the same.
Resources by definition are in-situ mineral occurrences that are quantified based on geological data, but may not necessarily be economic. The Company classification was established for each block based on the sample grid spacing model. Determination of the appropriate grid size for each resource class was based on the continuity of cobalt above a cut off rate of 0.10%. The mineral resource is summarized by class in Table 1. The cut off grades vary based on processing characteristics of each of the three main lithologic units.
TABLE 1
Geovic Mining Corp.
Nkamouna Project, Cameroon
Mineral Resource Statement
The general procedure used for resource estimation was as follows:
In the prefeasibility estimate, the depth to the bottom of Upper Laterite (granular), breccias, and the Lower Limonite (ferrilite) were extracted from the geologic logs of pits and drill holes and edited to correct for partial-depth pits and holes. The prefeasibility model depths were used as the starting point for this estimate.
A triangulated DTM model was created to represent the depth from surface to the bottom of each geologic unit. The depths to the bottom of each surface were edited interactively in Datamine to add data for the new pits and to adjust for deepened pits. In addition, estimated depths below pits and drill holes that did not penetrate the bottom of some horizons were entered as needed. An improvement to the prefeasibility model is that extrapolation outside the area of pits/drill holes was limited to 150 meters using a 3-dimensional polygon that also controlled the limiting depth of the surface.
Based on cross-section plots of cobalt grade in the flattened model, it was observed that cobalt grade could be correlated parallel to the top of mineralization. The depth to the top of mineralized cobalt from the prefeasibility estimate was used as the starting point for the current model.
Based on cross-section plots of cobalt grade in the flattened model, it was observed that cobalt grade could be correlated parallel to the top of mineralization. The depth to the top of mineralized cobalt was extracted from the pit and drill hole assay data.
A top-of-mineralization, or “TOMI,” model was created so that the top of mineralization in each drill hole was at a constant elevation. The advantage of this model is that the optimum correlation between the metal grades is horizontal and the shape and continuity of the mineralization can be viewed directly on plan maps. This model also went through several iterations of editing/remodelling to remove inconsistencies in the data from shallow holes that did not penetrate the top of mineralization and from multiple pits and drill holes within a few meters of each other.
Basic statistics, using the TOMI model, showed that there are three cobalt grade populations, including low-grade (poorly mineralized), mid-grade (mineralized), and high-grade (strongly mineralized). Manganese was found to have grade distributions similar in shape, but higher grade than cobalt, consistent with the strong correlation between cobalt, manganese, and asbolane. Nickel appears to be much more evenly distributed than cobalt and manganese and was found to only have two grade zones, mid-grade (mineralized) and high-grade (strongly mineralized).
Grade zones were defined for each metal as closed shapes in plan maps in the unfolded model.
Basic statistics were run within the grade zones to confirm the grade distributions and variograms were run to confirm continuity of grades within the zones.
Block grades were estimated for cobalt, nickel, and manganese using inverse-distance-power (“IDP”) estimation with grade-zoning controls. IDP estimation parameters were adjusted so the estimated block distributions adequately reflected mining selectivity.
A sample spacing model was prepared in the “unfolded” model system that measured the spacing of samples around each block. This model was used to classify the resources into measured, indicated, and inferred resource classes based on pit and drill hole spacing.
The individual 1-meter thick blocks from the flat model were composited into vertical stacks of blocks over the potentially mineable thickness. This process created a gridded-seam model that was used for estimation of reserves and mine planning.
Economic evaluation criteria are based on supplying a fixed 1,500 tonnes ore per day of product from the PUG plant to the process plant at an average of 1.56:1 Waste:Ore ratio. This yields an average mine production rate of 17,500 tpd with approximately 7,000 tpd of ore, and a maximum of 25,500 tpd for equipment sizing and operating cost estimation.
A net revenue cutoff of $12.00 per tonne ore was used to define the ore. After the estimated economic costs and recoveries were applied to the resource model, a contour map was developed around the profitable blocks to represent the pit floor. This is similar to what a floating cone does in a three-dimensional model, but the Nkamouna resource model is more similar to a two-dimensional seam model.
The Nkamouna mineral reserves presented in Table 2 are classified as a Proven plus Probable. The mineable reserve summary is based on the $12.00/tonne net revenue cutoff. Individual reserves by block include ore tonnes, cobalt grade, nickel grade, manganese grade, interburden and overburden tonnes. The mineral reserve is 53 million tonnes at a cobalt grade of 0.237% and a nickel grade of 0.719%. The economic analysis is positive at the metal prices of $12/lb cobalt and $3.50/lb nickel that were used to develop the mine plan and estimate the tonnages reported in the following table.
TABLE 2
Geovic Mining Corp.
Nkamouna Project, Cameroon
Mineral Reserve Statement
Mining Operations
The Nkamouna Project will be mined as an open-pit utilizing hydraulic shovels and excavators and 54-tonne trucks as the primary mining equipment. The Nkamouna Final Feasibility Study (the “FFS”) considers an average annual mining rate of 8.5 million tonnes over the/ 19-year mine life. This includes 5.6 million tonnes of waste per year and 2.9 million tonnes of ore per year for an average stripping ratio of 1.87 to 1. The mine plan was developed from the resource model by creating blocks around the resource that are approximately 150 meters wide and 500 meters long. The 150 meters wide blocks were developed on logical breaks in the resource model and are not uniform in dimension. The average grade and value of each block was then determined.
Design of the ultimate pit was based on mining the higher valued blocks first with a natural development of the block sequence to allow backfilling of the blocks. The blocks are developed in a direction progressing downhill. This minimizes the haul distance in the early years by first developing the blocks closest to the plant.
Mine design started with the completion of the resource model. The seam model was then diluted to represent the thickness expected to be mined using reasonably selective equipment and methods. The dilution is based on a minimum of one meter of ore so that less than one meter is considered waste and if the inter-burden between ore layers is less than 2 meters it is taken with the ore. There were many areas where the inter-burden was 1 to 2 meters in thickness with some low grade values and it was determined that it would be easier to mine this with the ore than try to segregate the waste, thereby simplifying the mining method. The ore zones become much more uniform by allowing 2 meters of low grade interburden to the mined as ore.
All major access and haul roads will be crowned with sufficient thickness of screened ferricrete breccia mine waste and compacted to create road surfaces that will minimize interruptions to project operations during rainy seasons.
Mine equipment requirements were developed from the annual mine production schedule, based on the mine operation schedule, equipment availability, and equipment productivities. Mine production was based on an equipment fleet which includes 6.5-m3
hydraulic excavators and shovels, 6.9-m3 wheel loaders, 54-tonne haul trucks, and 152-mm diameter truck-mounted auger drills. The location of the PUG plant and waste dumps or backfill repositories were used to calculate truck cycle times and estimate production capacity. The mining fleet is sized for a nominal 8 million tonnes per year mining rate. Production planning was based on matching truck fleets to the loader/shovel fleet based on respective cycle times.
Mine personnel includes all the exempt and non-exempt employees in operations, maintenance, engineering, and geology departments. The salaried mine staff comprises a maximum of 16 people during mine production which will include a maximum of 8 expatriates. Expatriates are expected to be replaced over time with a reduction to six by Year 2, four by Year 3, two by Year 4, and down to the Mine Manager from Year 5 through Year 19.
Plans are for the Nkamouna mine to operate two 12-hour shifts per day, 7 days per week for a total of 14 shifts per week. The mine operation schedule allows for 26 shifts per year being lost due to weather delays in the mine. It is envisioned that mining of ore would occur on both shifts in order to minimize stockpiling and re-handling.
Various independent consultants prepared a composite sample from the test concentrates produced by Mountain States Research and Development Inc. (“MSRDI”). The consultants completed a comprehensive series of bench-scale tests investigating the dissolution of the asbolane concentrate, purification of the resulting leach solution, solvent extraction and production of cobalt, nickel and manganese products. The consultants also completed a prefeasibility study of the Metals Recovery Plant (“MRP”). This study concentrated solely on the leaching and metals recovery operations. It included a conceptual design, preliminary equipment selection and capital and operating costs of several alternative scenarios.
Processing this unique ore starts with crushing, attritioning and particle sizing to produce a high-grade, coarse concentrate. The PUG plant will be fed from stockpiles using a wheeled loader and direct dumping from ore haulage trucks. The plant basically consists of a receiving hopper and two stages each of crushing, attritioning and particle classifying to produce coarse, high-grade concentrates (-1 inch x +48 mesh), low-grade middlings (-48 mesh x +200 mesh) and fine tailings (-200 mesh). The concentrate will be conveyed to a receiving bin at the process plant. As 64% of the cobalt is concentrated in only 21.5% of the ore weight, the process plant size is much smaller and financial performance is dramatically improved compared to processing run-of-mine ore.
The PUG plant throughput at a nominal 7,000 tpd will generate 4,700 tpd of fine tailings, 800 tpd of middling concentrates and 1,500 tpd of feed to the MRP. The PUG tailings will be disposed of in the Napene Creek TSF. The middling concentrate will be backfilled and stored in separate areas of the mine.
The average annual mining rate is 8.5 million tones over the 19 year mine life. This includes 5.6 million tonnes of waste per year and 2.9 million tones of ore per year and results in an average stripping ratio of 1.87 to 1. Conventional truck and shovel mining methods will be utilized with the processing of ore at 9,000 tonnes per day yielding an average annual production of 9.2 million pounds of cobalt and 7.0 million pounds of nickel.
Processing operations are designed to produce high purity cobalt and nickel oxide products that are directly marketable or readily converted into cathodes or other chemical compounds. Plant operations during the initial 19 years are estimated to recover 158 million pounds of cobalt and 129 million pounds of nickel.
The total initial capital is approximately $397 million, with an additional $51 million of sustaining capital required over the 19-year mine life. The 24-month construction period also includes $18 million of costs that are treated as expenses for tax purposes. The cash operating cost per pound of cobalt produced is $3.12 after by-product credits, including direct and indirect costs and production taxes.
Several economic models were prepared, including a Base Case, a Reserve Case, a Leveraged case, and a High Price Case. The reserve case used prices per pound of $15.55 cobalt and $3.75 nickel to establish reserves in the mine plan, whereas the base case and the leveraged case used three-year average metal prices and the High Price case uses $35.00 per pound of cobalt and $12.00 per pound of nickel. The base case economic analysis generates an estimated after tax net present value (“NPV”) of $695 million (at an 8% discount rate), and an internal rate of return (“IRR”) of 33.0%. Project payback is estimated at 2.9 years based on these assumptions. Total before-tax cash flow is $2.53 billion.
Additional sensitivity models were prepared that varied the capital and operating costs, metal prices and metal recovery. Table 4 summarizes the project economics for the Nkamouna Project.
TABLE 3
Geovic Mining Corp.
Nkamouna Project, Cameroon
Economic Evaluations
(1)
Note: Net of nickel by-product credit, and including production taxes.
The following table reflects the reported annual average spot price for cathodes for cobalt and nickel as reported by Platt’s Metals Week for Cobalt and London Metals Exchange for nickel for each of the last four years. This information was not included in the Technical Report.
MADA PROJECT
Information in this section is summarized, from the NI 43-101 Technical Report, Nkamouna and Mada Cobalt Projects, Cameroon dated March 12, 2007 prepared by PAH for Geovic and the Company on behalf of GeoCam (the “Mada Technical Report”).
Portions of the following information are based on assumptions, qualifications and procedures which are set out only in the full Mada Technical Report. For a complete description of assumptions, qualifications and procedures associated with the following information, reference should be made to the full text of the Mada Technical Report which is available from the Company’s website at www.geovic.net.
Property Description and Location
The Mada Project is adjacent to and north of the Nkamouna Project. The closest village is Kongo Village, situated more than 8 kilometers (5 miles) from the Nkamouna Project. At present it takes about one hour to drive the 40 kilometres between Lomie and the Mada Project site.
Accessibility, Climate, Local Resources, Infrastructure and Physiography
Physical attributes of the Mada Project are essentially the same as for the adjoining Nkamouna Project, described previously. Nevertheless, GeoCam will need to develop a site specific environmental study of the Mada Project, much the same as was produced for Nkamouna.
The Mada deposit is relatively flat. There is a swamp and small depression in the center of the deposit. The deposit is a crescent shape about 8 kilometers from east to west and 14 kilometers from north to south. The perimeter of the deposit has an approximate elevation of 760 meters above sea level, with the lower central depression of 680 meters.
History
Between 1995 and 2003, Geovic carried out extensive pitting at Mada. This work was performed by Geovic employees and consultants on behalf of GeoCam.
The Mada property is undeveloped, as are the adjacent laterite mineralized terrains. Geology of the deposit is similar to the Nkamouna Project, described above.
By 2003, Geovic had largely completed the initial pit digging program at Mada. Much more intensive work was carried out on the nearby Nkamouna Project. No drilling has been conducted at the Mada Project. All samples have been obtained by developing pits or shafts of a nominal 1.25 meter diameter. Accordingly the Mada deposit has not been as extensively sampled as the Nkamouna Project. Between 1995 and 2003, 322 pits were dug in the broader Mada deposit.
Mineralization
Only 13% of the Mada pits were logged as penetrating the entire deposit profile reaching bedrock (schist, quartzite, or serpentinite), and many of these pits were outside the mineralized area. Consequently, sampling density at Mada is sparse. Nevertheless, during 1995-2003, Geovic shipped more than 3,200 Mada pit samples to accredited assay laboratories to determine cobalt, nickel, chromium and manganese content.
Deposits
From a geological perspective, the Mada deposit is essentially indistinguishable from the Nkamouna Project. The only significant difference between the deposits is that the potentially mineralized area at Mada is approximately seven times larger than Nkamouna. A detailed drilling and sampling program began in the second half of 2007 with the object to try to establish ore reserves in the southern part of the deposit.
Mining Operations
If ore reserves can be demonstrated, it is envisioned that the Mada Project will likely be mined as an open-pit similar to Nkamouna. No mine plan has been developed to date, and GeoCam will conduct extensive exploration on the Mada deposit in 2008 and thereafter, before taking steps toward development activities.
UNITED STATES MINING LEASES AND CLAIMS
We are actively engaged in the strategic acquisition, exploration and development of other mineral properties to diversify our portfolio of mineral exploration and development opportunities. To that end, in 2007 we actively leased mineral properties and staked mining claims in the United States through our wholly-owned subsidiary, Geovic Energy Corp.
Arizona Properties
Through geologic mapping and geochemical sampling, the Company has identified several new areas of gold and uranium mineralization in the Whetstone Mountains, located 64-kilometers (40-miles) southwest of Tucson, Arizona. The Company located 51 federal lode claims covering approximately 1,000 acres in the area of expected uranium-gold mineralization in the northern Whetstone Mountains in 2007. In addition to the indicated uranium mineralization in the area, the pre-Cambrian hosted shear zones also appear to contain anomalous fluorite, copper and gold. Based upon its initial findings, the Company leased approximately 16.8
square kilometers (6.5 square miles) of state of Arizona mineral lands in the vicinity of the gold occurrence. The total cost of leasing the state land and staking the mineral claims was about $24 thousand. The work commitment on the state mineral lands is $41 thousand per year. The annual fee to hold the 51 mineral claims on federal lands is approximately $9 thousand.
The Whetstone Mountain area where the claims are located was previously explored in the 1970s and 1980s by Rocky Mountain Energy (Union Pacific Railroad) and Unocal (Union Oil Co of California), at a time when members of the Company’s management were employed by the latter company. Mining claims and other mineral properties held by those entities were abandoned by 1990. Related documentation compiled by those early operators show that the newly acquired properties have significant uranium oxide (U3O8) mineralization. The mineral deposits are hosted in high-angle shear zones within the pre-Cambrian granite complex that forms the core of the Whetstone Mountains. The Company plans to re-drill the historic resource areas, and test for extensions of these zones along the pre-Cambrian hosted structures.
The Company collected 33 rock chip samples at the surface of a previously unexplored area, covering a zone 600’ x 1,800’ (185m x 550m), underlain by quartz stockwork and associated alteration features. These samples assayed up to 1.0 gram gold per tonne (1.0 gm/t), and averaged 0.1 gm/t. Additional sampling is planned, possibly followed by geophysical surveys before a drilling program is designed to test for economic gold concentrations within the indicated epithermal gold-quartz system.
Colorado/Wyoming Properties
We have also targeted and are acquiring fee mineral leases over the known uranium deposits in the Denver-Cheyenne Basin of Northeastern Colorado and Southeastern Wyoming. These 15-year mineral leases cover large portions of the six (6) main known uranium deposits in Weld County, Colorado and Goshen County, Wyoming. As of the end of 2007, we have incurred approximately $2.82 million in leasing costs to acquire approximately 15,500 acres believed to host historical uranium deposits at depths ranging from 120 feet to 600 feet below the surface. The acquired properties are focused on areas of shallow Cretaceous sandstone bearing “roll-front” uranium deposits in the Denver-Cheyenne Basin. These deposits are believed to average in excess of 7 feet of uranium mineralization, with average grades between 0.07 to 0.20% U3O8, as established by other operators in the 1970s, including Union Oil of California, by whom several members of management of the Company were then employed. Through the leases it now holds, Geovic has control over much of the known mineralized area in Eastern Weld County, Colorado and Goshen County, Wyoming. We incurred $923 thousand of exploration costs related to these properties.
In addition to leasing private lands, we have applied for leases on federal lands containing expected uranium mineral trends in the Basin.
Geovic Energy Corp. is planning an extensive development-drilling program to re-confirm the historical resources, in preparation for establishing reserves. This will be followed, as soon as practical, with the completion of environmental (12-month water studies), and related engineering studies.
ITEM 3.