ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
Glossary of Certain Terms
Ferralite. Limonitic laterite, sometimes pulverulent, mottled, with varied shades of black, yellow, brown and red. Often foliated, reflecting relict serpentinite textures. Thickness varies from a few meters to tens of meters, averaging near 8 meters. Main ore unit, consistently mineralized with good metal grades near the top where black manganese zones occur, moderate to low cobalt grades lower in the unit.
Ferricrete Breccia. Beneath the Upper Laterite is a nearly ubiquitous horizon of iron-rich concretions, ranging in size from one or two centimeters across, to blocks larger than a meter across. The ferricrete breccia averages 6 to 8 meters thick, and was often divided into two or three units by project geologists. A unit can contain very high cobalt grades, particularly at the base.
Hydrometallurgical processing. One of several metallurgical processes that uses water and other liquids for the leaching and recovery of soluble metals from ore.
Lateritic Soil. A soil containing laterite, or any reddish tropical soil developed by intense tropical weathering.
Manganese precipitate. Manganese compounds produced by precipitation from leach solutions.
Nickeliferous laterite deposit. A nickel-bearing laterite deposit, occurring beneath the cobalt-nickel deposit at the Nkamouna Project.
Proterozoic granite-gneiss-schist. Proterozoic age (Pre-Cambrian) rock units of igneous granite, metamorphic gneiss and schist, or the terrain found in the vicinity of the Nkamouna laterite deposits.
Serpentinite. Bedrock, olive green to dark green, may be fractured and fissile, with silica-filled fractures. Uniformly low metals grades except in rare cases where garnierite-like nickeliferous silicates fill fractures.
Tailings facility. A containment system comprised of a compacted, earthen structure or dike and a prepared basin area that is used to contain solid tailings and water from the mineral process.
Tailings disposal. A method for disposing of tailings, waste rejects, and water from a processing operation into the tailings facility.
Terrain or terrane. A term applied to a general geologic unit or grouping with no specific definition or formal designation.
Tonne. One metric tonne is 1000 kilograms, or 2,204.6 pounds.
Upper Laterite. A purplish-red, highly magnetic, powdery clay-like soil. Ubiquitous, normally 4 to 8 m thick, except where removed by erosion at the borders of laterite plateaus.
Water Table. The depth below the surface where the rocks are water saturated. Geovic recorded a water table depth in several test drill holes which varied from approximately 12 to approximately 25 meters below surface at the Nkamouna Project site.
Description of Mineral Projects
THE NKAMOUNA PROJECT
Unless stated otherwise, information in this section is summarized, compiled or extracted from the NI 43-101 Technical Report, Nkamouna Cobalt Project, Feasibility Study dated January 18, 2008 (the “Nkamouna Technical Report”) prepared for Geovic Mining by Pincock Allen & Holt (“PAH”), and the NI 43-101 Technical
Report Nkamouna and Mada Cobalt Projects, Cameroon, dated March 12, 2007 (the “Mada Technical Report”) prepared for Geovic and GeoCam by PAH. At the time the NI 43-101 Technical Reports were prepared PAH was and continues to be independent from the Company. The Technical Reports were prepared in accordance with the requirements of NI 43-101.
Portions of the following information are based on assumptions, qualifications and procedures which are set out only in the full Technical Reports. We have omitted much of the background information that is included in the Technical Reports. For a complete description of assumptions, qualifications and procedures associated with the following information and for additional details about the findings of PAH, reference should be made to the full text of the Nkamouna Technical Report and the Mada Technical Report which are available electronically from the Company’s website at www.geovic.net and on SEDAR at www.sedar.com. References to “Geovic” in this Item 2 “Properties” include the Company and GeoCam, as applicable.
In September 2008 the Company received an independent study that further optimized the Nkamouna feasibility study described in the Nkamouna Technical Report as reported in the Company’s press release and Form 8-K dated September 3, 2008; however, all technical and related information on the Nkamouna Project in this report is based on the Nkamouna Technical Report, which is the last technical report prepared in compliance with NI 43-101. The Company and GeoCam are currently reviewing and evaluating all significant refining and metallurgical aspects of the Nkamouna Project with the aim to improve technical and economic performance.
Project Description and Location
Geovic, through its 60% owned subsidiary GeoCam, has exclusive rights to several large cobalt-nickel laterite deposits in Cameroon (the “Cameroon Properties”). There are seven laterite plateaus within the Nkamouna Project: Nkamouna, Mada, Rapodjombo, North Mang, South Mang, Messea and Kondong (collectively, the “Plateaus”).
The Nkamouna Project, one of the seven Plateaus, is located in southeastern Cameroon, approximately 640 road kilometers east of the port city of Douala and 400 road kilometers east of the capital of Yaoundé and is the only area where we have established reserves. The Mada Project (the “Mada Project”) another of the Plateaus, is approximately 10 kilometers north of the Nkamouna Project.
The mineral rights are held by GeoCam under the Mine Permit and administered under the Mining Convention. Figure A shows the Mine Permit boundary. Although the Mining Permit decree states the area of the Nkamouna Project as 1,250 square kilometers, the area within the coordinate boundary of the Nkamouna Project measures approximately 1,600 square kilometers of “multiple use” forestlands, while the Plateaus within the Nkamouna Project constitute over 300 square kilometers of known mineralized or potentially mineralized terrain within lands designated as “mineral exclusive lands.”
GeoCam’s Nkamouna Project is located in the Haut Nyong district, East Province of Cameroon, Africa. The closest town to the Project site is Lomie, at approximately 26 kilometers to the west-southwest. The closest railroad transport to the Project is at the town of Belabo, at a distance of approximately 250 kilometers. Transportation from Yaoundé to the Project is by paved highway to Ayos, improved public road to Abong Mbang and private logging roads or public roads to the project site. International airports and modern telecommunication facilities exist at Yaoundé and Douala. Suitable shipping and receiving facilities exist at the international seaport of Douala. Driving from Yaoundé to the Nkamouna Project takes approximately 7 hours.
Figure A
Location Map and Mine Permit Area
Fifty-nine percent of the Eastern Province, where the Nkamouna Project is situated, is dominated by forests zoned “multiple-use.” Over 64 logging concessions are designated in the province that surround GeoCam’s “mineral exclusive zone.” A significant portion of the area is also dedicated to protected forests, wildlife reserves and general “evergreen forest” habitat (22%) that are located well away from planned operations. A small proportion of the district is zoned for mineral development (1.6%), part of which includes the “mineral exclusive zone” (0.35%). Indigenous community lands dominated by subsistence gardening and “community forest” developments form the remainder of the district lands which covers about 18% of the province. These lands are located principally along the main access routes developed when the province was first opened to plantation farming in the late 19th Century.
The Mining Convention was signed on July 31, 2002 by the Ministry of Mines, Water, and Power of the Republic of Cameroon. The Mining Permit was issued on April 11, 2003 granting GeoCam the exclusive rights to exploit the deposits within the Permit area, and to commence mining activities within four years, a period which has been extended. The Mining Permit will remain in force for the duration of the mineable resource and has an initial term of 25 years. The Mining Permit and Mining Convention are renewable every 10 years thereafter until the depletion of resources.
Specific sites that will be impacted by mining and mine related activities are being permitted under a government-prescribed process and will have “site specific” environmental plans designed and approved by governing agencies prior to mining. This inventory, valuation and registration process requires local government approval, following a review of each site by district leaders
The principal remaining permits required by GeoCam before the initiation of construction at Nkamouna include finalization of Land Lease for development sites that were negotiated in late 2008. The land lease will be registered and issued to GeoCam. GeoCam will pay for the cost of leasing the land and compensation for the loss of alternative resources.
GeoCam will have the right to occupy, build roads, remove vegetation and mine and process cobalt, nickel and associated substances covered in the Mining Convention once the land lease is finalized, in accordance with the Mining Convention.
The Mine Permit area is totally contained in areas zoned for logging concessions and “multiple use.” All planned mine developments are in logged over areas and are exclusive of “primary forest” designations. GeoCam’s mining operations will result in partial deforestation during the mining phase, which will represent less than 0.5% of the annual deforested area within the region.
Geovic, acting on behalf of GeoCam, completed a draft Environmental and Social Assessment (“ESA”) and related documents in 2004. Based on anticipated locations of mining, ore processing, transportation, administration and employee housing operations, Geovic identified environmental safeguards that will be included in the construction and operation of the Nkamouna Project. The ESA included undertakings regarding water and regional habitat protection, mitigation of social impacts and future remediation of mined areas. Geovic completed the ESA in 2006 and GeoCam submitted the ESA and related documents to the Government of Cameroon. GeoCam completed 16 public hearings on the environmental aspects of the project in Cameroon. On May 29, 2007, the Ministry of Environment and Protection of Nature of the Republic of Cameroon approved the ESA and issued a Certificate of Environmental Compliance with respect to GeoCam’s March 2007 revisions to the ESA, thereby providing the necessary environmental approval to advance the Nkamouna Project in the manner described in the ESA.
All environmental permits necessary to construct and operate the project had been received by the end of 2008.
Principal legislative, regulatory and policy considerations relating to the Nkamouna Project are as follows:
A) Environmental Protection: Law No. 96/12 relating to environmental management outlines the general legal framework for environmental management in Cameroon. The law requires that any development must carry out an “impact assessment study.” The new mining code specifies that bonds are required before mine development can commence. The project’s proposed environmental mitigation and rehabilitation practices are reviewed once every four years to determine if the bond is sufficient to cover annual impacts caused by mining activities. The bond is based on an estimated annual cost of environmental impact mitigation of disturbed sites.
B) Law 94/01(Decree No. 94/436) pertains to forest developments. Article 9 prescribes that cutting trees in a state forest can be performed only after an impact study has been conducted. This study will be carried out as part of Geovic’s “site specific” environmental impact assessment report and environmental rehabilitation plan.
C) Law No. 81-13 regulates fishing, hunting and the issuance of related licenses. Also, the law controls the possession or trade in wild animals and trophy hunting and provides for the protection of endangered species. Enforcement measures and penalties are defined in this law, as described in the Geovic environmental plan.
D) Law No. 89/027 addresses specific waste disposal regulations. It pertains to storage, transportation and disposal of hazardous waste. Businesses must declare the volumes and nature of each waste product and ensure elimination of waste without undue risk to people and the environment.
E) Law 84/13 regulates water resources. The government manages and protects state waters such as rivers, lakes and groundwater. Non-state waters include spring, well and drill holes not used by the public, and rainwater falling on private land or collected artificially from roof systems. The use of water for commercial purposes may be sold by the State authority and is subject to permitting, exploitation and conservation taxes.
F) Decree No. 85/758 regulates water use by committee. This committee provides advice in implementing the water code that will include issues such as inventory, conservation, protection, use, effluent treatment and taxation.
Taxes and Royalties
The statutory income tax rates in Cameroon as of year end 2008 are 38.5% for corporations. Dividend tax rates are 16.5% for residents and 25% for non-residents. Thus, the effective income plus dividend tax rate is 53.875% for non-residents and 48.648% for residents.
Among other specific benefits, GeoCam’s Strategic Enterprise Regime awarded on December 16, 2002, provides a 50% reduction to these two tax rates for five years during the installation phase, plus 12 years during the first 17 years of the exploitation phase. Dividend tax is based on cash flow after the initial capital is repaid. Pursuant to provisions in the Strategic Enterprise Regime, 25% of the base salaries and wages paid to Cameroonian employees are credited to GeoCam to further reduce taxable income and provide incentives to employ local workers.
In addition, Article 144 of the Mining Code now in effect calls for an ad valorem tax of 2.5% on metals. This is treated as a production tax expense and will reduce net income for income tax purposes.
Based on interpretations of the Strategic Enterprise Regime by Geovic and its Cameroonian attorneys, value-added taxes will not be applied to Geovic’s operations, at least until mine construction begins.
Accessibility, Climate, Local Resources, Infrastructure, And Physiography
The closest town to the Nkamouna Project site is Lomie, at approximately 26 kilometers to the west-southwest. The 40 kilometer road from Lomie to the site of the GeoCam field camp supports heavy log and lumber transports, as does the road from the field camp to the project site. Driving from Yaoundé to the Nkamouna Project takes approximately 7 hours.
Lomie is the Subdivision administrative center that hosts the Nkamouna Project and has been the staging area for Geovic’s activities. Lomie has about 3,500 inhabitants, a limited local electrical supply, and very basic services and supplies. There is new telephone service, but no airstrip or approved heliport, and only rudimentary medical facilities. Geovic’s field operations are based from the Kongo Camp, a fully-contained compound near the village of Kongo. The compound has adequate working and sleeping quarters, a diesel generator, diesel fuel storage, a kitchen with refrigerators, repair shop and sample preparation and storage facilities, many of which were upgraded or expanded by GeoCam in 2008.
The economy of Lomie is largely undeveloped, except for a large sawmill and surrounding timber harvesting operations, and small local businesses and government agencies. Lomie’s municipality has provided diesel electric power (200kW) since 1997. Lomie is also the site of a number of domestic and international non-governmental organizations that monitor the 1.3 million acre World Heritage Dja Biosphere reserve and other reserves in the region.
The regional climate is classified as an “Equatorial Guinea” sub-type characterized by two main seasonal types, namely the “main wet” season and “main dry” season, and two minor seasonal types designated as “mini wet” and “mini dry.” The site is located on the northwestern margin of the Congo River tropical zone. The annual maximum monthly temperature ranges from 24° to 33° centigrade and generally do not fall below 18° centigrade.
The average annual precipitation is approximately 1,580 millimeters (62.2 inches) with high humidity and evaporation rates. The main wet season occurs between September and early November, and the main dry season occurs from November to May. The mini wet season lasts about eight weeks in March to May, and the mini dry season extends from June to mid-September. Limited amounts of rainfall occur throughout the year, except during the months of December and January, which are typically dry. Average monthly evaporation rates exceed rainfall during the two dry seasons. The prevailing wind direction is from the south and southwest, and averages less than 4-kilometers per hour and is commonly undetectable beneath the tree canopy near the Nkamouna Project site. The operating season is year-round.
Consultants to GeoCam concluded that the water balance for the Napene Creek tailings storage facility (“NCTSF”) at Nkamouna Project will operate in a water deficit condition. Diversion ditches could be incorporated to divert water around the facility or into the facility depending on the water needs at the time. Additional requirements regarding water quality and potential uses or discharges will be finalized based on the results of additional waste characterization during the detail engineering phase of the project.
Abundant water is available from shallow wells to be completed in the Edje River floodplain; however, much of the process water will be recycled from the NCTSF. Mining, processing and housing facilities will each be provided with sewage collection and treatment systems.
To support the mining and milling operations at Nkamouna, a number of ancillary facilities will be required. These include energy generation, a mobile equipment maintenance shop, warehouse, reagent storage building, laboratory, and administration offices.
Combined Heat and Power (“CHP”) units fuelled by locally harvested wood are expected to produce nearly all project electrical energy requirements. In addition to the Kongo compound, a temporary construction camp will be installed and used until permanent housing can be constructed to meet project operating requirements. On-site accommodations will be provided for expatriate staff. Housing and other community assistance will be provided to local employees, who will be drawn from nearby villages.
Recent logging under of pre-existing timber leases has occurred throughout most of the mineralized areas within the Mine Permit
The central part of the Nkamouna mineral district is dominated by a series of rolling upland plateaus that are isolated by several river systems that feed into the main Congo River drainage basin. Elevations in the province range from about 450 meters along the lower Dja River to 927 meters at Mount Guimbiri, located east of Abong Mbang. The local upland plateau in the vicinity of the Nkamouna mine site presents an elevation of about 700 meters.
The Nkamouna ore deposit is relatively flat and has an average depth of 16 meters. The majority of the deposit is situated down slope from the process plant site and has a natural grade of approximately 5% with upper elevations around 760 meters and lower elevations near 610 meters. The deposit is a crescent shape about 4 kilometers from east to west and 2 kilometers from north to south. The process plant site is adjacent to the mine and near the top of a saddle at an approximate elevation of 700 meters.
Geology Setting
Local Geology
The region within a 300-km radius of the Nkamouna Project Area in Cameroon, Gabon, Congo, and Central African Republic has few producing mineral deposits and few with near-term production potential. Most of this region of west-central Africa is underlain by Proterozoic granite-gneiss-schist terrains, broadly similar to the rocks in the Nkamouna Project Area. Within the region, ultramafic rocks, the original source of the cobalt and nickel, are confined to the Nkamouna Project Area. There has been no previous production of minerals from the Cameroon Project
Property Geology
The cobalt-nickel deposits are hosted in residual laterites which have formed by prolonged tropical weathering of serpentinites. Large areas of mineralized laterite, each several square kilometers in extent, have been preserved on low-relief mesas or plateaus underlain by ultramafic rocks that stand above the surrounding dissected lowlands. Nkamouna and Mada are two such plateaus. Most of the plateaus are underlain by ultramafic rocks, with some areas of schist, phyllite, and quartzite. The surrounding lowlands are underlain by schists, phyllites, quartzites, and meta-volcanics of the Intermediate Series. The bedrock geology at Nkamouna has been mapped by Geovic geologists through a combination of natural exposures, soil mapping, and, most importantly, observation of weathered or fresh rock encountered in pits and drillholes. Mapping of detailed structures, attitudes of foliation or fractures, etc. is generally not practical except in the deeper pits. Rock from pits, drillholes, and rare exposures indicate that the fresh underlying rock at Nkamouna is a pervasively-sheared serpentinite.
At Nkamouna, petrographic evidence suggests that the parent rock to the serpentinite was probably a dunite (rock containing +90 percent olivine). Metasedimentary rocks (quartz-muscovite schist, phyllite, and quartzite) occupy the borders of the serpentinite, and also occur as inliers within the serpentinites. Locally, lateritic soils with schist fragments overlie serpentinite bedrock due to the gravity-induced creep of soils down-slope.
Exploration
Nickeliferous laterite deposits in southeast Cameroon were first discovered and investigated by the UNDP during 1981-1986, in a cooperative project with the Cameroon Ministry of Mines, Water and Energy. The UNDP project drilled eleven core holes in the Nkamouna area, which was the most accessible laterite area at that time. Several of the UNDP holes intersected laterite and saprolite with interesting nickel and cobalt values. The sites of most of the UNDP holes were subsequently surrounded by gridded Geovic drill holes and pits, and the effective influence of the UNDP holes on resource tonnage calculations is negligible.
Geovic’s exploration initially was based entirely on manually-dug test pits, and later incorporated drilling and limited trenching. The program began at Nkamouna and was later extended to Mada and the other Plateaus, which were identified by satellite images and air photos. Geologists from the Cameroon Ministry of Mines, Water and Energy participated in the work to provide government oversight as well as training.
By 2004, Geovic had largely completed the reconnaissance sampling and had undertaken pitting and drilling programs of varying densities at Nkamouna where access was greater due to recent logging operations, with an eye toward defining deposit parameters for an eventual feasibility study.
Mineralization
Most of the economic mineralization in each deposit is in one interval containing about 1 meter of ferricrete breccia and 4 meters of ferralite. The ore types are characterized geologically by their mineral content, bulk composition, and texture, as described below. The deposit’s unusual concentration of the coarsely aggregated ore mineral asbolane is highly significant, as is the thick ferricrete breccia and abundant maghemite.
The Cameroon laterite profiles, similar to those elsewhere in humid tropical environments, show a strong vertical zonation, which reflects the transition from unweathered host rock at the base, to highly-leached residues at the surface. The Cameroon laterites depart from the norm somewhat, in possessing two layers of iron-rich laterite, between which lies ferricrete breccia. The lower portion of the profile under the breccia includes the limonitic ferralite and underlying saprolite zones which are more typical of humid tropical laterite profiles.
The minerals of economic interest in the Nkamouna laterites occur in general, as fine-grained clay-like or concretionary masses, and are only occasionally identifiable as discretely visible mineral specimens. Of great significance is the size of asbolane agglomerates and wad that host the cobalt and almost all of the manganese.
The key mineral in the Geovic deposits, which hosts the cobalt, most of the manganese, and a significant part of the nickel, is asbolane. Between one-third and one-half of the deposit’s nickel is hosted in asbolane. Asbolane is widespread in nickeliferous laterites, but elsewhere is usually present in very small amounts and is normally inconspicuous as black blebs on fractures. The asbolane occurrence at Nkamouna is unusual in that it occurs as both discrete platy crystals and in larger and coarser crystal aggregates and fine-grained wad up to 5 cm in diameter, sometimes as concretion-like nodules with chromite and goethite. It also occurs as a fine intergrowth with chromium and iron oxides and hydroxides.
Asbolane is critical to the Nkamouna Project economics, because it occurs as coarser aggregates of microscopic crystals, the aggregates being separable by crushing and wet screening from the pulverulent iron-oxide minerals and clays. The resulting coarse fraction contains most of the cobalt and manganese, and a significant portion of the nickel in the raw material, which can be readily prepared into a significantly upgraded concentrate prior to processing.
Drilling
Because the Nkamouna deposits are secondary, which represent the decomposition products of bedrock, they present the data-generation issues which are typical of laterites: sampling of intermixed material which ranges from very soft to very hard, and which varies greatly in metal grade from one particle to the next, especially in the ferricrete breccia lithologies.
Until the 2008 drilling program, most of the sampling at Nkamouna, and nearly all sampling in the other deposit areas, has been by pitting, with a lesser amount from drilling. In 1999 a total of 23 core drill holes were drilled (NKM-21 to NKM-43) in the northeast part of West Nkamouna, on an approximate 100-meter grid. The maximum depth reached was 33 meters, with an average hole depth of 26.1 meters, for a total of 600 meters drilled. A reverse-circulation drill was used between May 2002 and September 2003, when 176 holes totaling 3,690.25 meters were drilled at Nkamouna. The majority of all samples for testing were obtained by developing pits or shafts of a nominal 1.2 meter diameter.
2008 Drilling
GeoCam completed an extensive exploratory drilling program in the Nkamouna and Mada deposits in 2008, as summarized in Item 1, Business, page 8. GeoCam has received assay or other testing results from about 25% of the 2,045 drill holes completed and 48,095 samples collected for assay and no assessment of the data has been completed. It is anticipated that this extensive data may significantly increase our Proven and Probable reserves when analyzed.
Sampling and Analysis
GeoCam maintains a sample-preparation facility at the Kongo Camp, where samples are prepared for assay. Most of the sample points were exposed and sampled by test pits, dug using simple hand tools by local labor crews. PAH reviewed the pre-2008 sampling procedures in detail, and photographed each stage of preparation.
A sample was collected each meter by cutting a rectangular groove in one wall of the pit, measuring 10 by 5 cm. When more than one sample is collected from an interval concurrently, these are oriented following the main cardinal compass points. Each pit was visited daily during drilling by a geologist to log geology, check channel progress, collect the samples from the intervals extended in his absence, and to decide whether to continue digging.
Sample intervals generally varied between 0.5 and 1.65 meters. Each interval was logged by color and texture, and by mineralogy where noted. All samples were analyzed for nickel, cobalt, manganese, chromium, copper, zinc, lead and MgO. Composites representing 5 to 10 meters were analyzed for Fe2O3.
PAH found that Geovic personnel, and contractors paid close attention to sampling and sample-processing techniques, and have varied the techniques from time to time, based on careful analysis of results, including comparisons between different methods. PAH determined that Geovic’s collection and handling of samples meet or exceed industry standards for laterite projects, and that any limitations on precision and accuracy of samples are those limitations inherent in the laterite deposits themselves and in assaying technology.
Altogether, more than 14,000 Nkamouna samples were assayed for cobalt and nickel during 1995-2004. Many of these samples were also assayed for manganese and other elements and compounds.
Various other appropriate methods were used for occasional analyses of 34 other elements (Pb, Zn, Cu, Cr, V, Mg, Al, Sc, Zr, MgO, SiO2, etc.) for bulk samples and other specialty samples.
Security of Samples
Various inter-laboratory checks were undertaken by Geovic on behalf of GeoCam throughout the sampling phase of the project. Geovic undertook a comprehensive program of comparing second sample comparisons from Nkamouna. The pairs of samples extracted from the same sample intervals showed a high degree of correlation for cobalt, nickel and manganese, providing confidence in the ability to generate reproducible assay results from similar sample material. Although the sample-split campaign did not include Mada, there is every expectation that similar results would accrue, given the similarities in geology, sampling methods, and analytical methods. PAH accepted the general veracity of the assays on Nkamouna samples.
Mineral Resource and Mineral Reserves
This Section describes the resource and reserve model for the Nkamouna Project based on data available at the end of 2007, as included in the Nkamouna Technical Report.
Nkamouna Resource and Reserve Model
A mineral resource estimate was prepared for the Nkamouna area using a three-dimensional block model to estimate cobalt, nickel, and manganese grade for individual blocks with dimensions of 10 by 10-meters horizontal by 1-meter vertical. In addition, lithology codes and resource classification codes were defined for each block. This estimate updated the prefeasibility model with additional data, including: 162 deepened pits, five additional pits, and revised topography data. The 2007 assay database contains 4 percent greater assay intervals than the 2005 database. The updated resource estimation was done with Datamine Studio 3.0 geologic modeling software, although the methodology remains essentially the same.
The mineral resource is summarized by resource category and lithologic unit in Table 1 below. The cutoff grades in this table are different for each lithology and are approximate economic cutoffs based on the different processing characteristics of each lithology.
TABLE 1
Nkamouna Project, Cameroon
Mineral Resource Statement
A top-of-mineralization, or “TOMI,” model was created by PAH so that the top of mineralization in each drill hole was at a constant elevation. The advantage of this model is that the optimum correlation between the metal grades is horizontal and the shape and continuity of the mineralization can be viewed directly on plan maps. This model also went through several iterations of editing/remodelling to remove inconsistencies in the data from shallow holes that did not penetrate the top of mineralization and from multiple pits and drill holes within a few meters of each other.
Basic statistics, using the TOMI model, showed that there are three cobalt grade populations, including low-grade (poorly mineralized), mid-grade (mineralized), and high-grade (strongly mineralized). Manganese was found to have grade distributions similar in shape, but higher grade than cobalt, consistent with the strong correlation between cobalt, manganese, and asbolane. Nickel appears to be much more evenly distributed than cobalt and manganese and was found to only have two grade zones, mid-grade (mineralized) and high-grade (strongly mineralized).
Grade zones were defined for each metal as closed shapes in plan maps in the unfolded model.
Basic statistics were run within the grade zones to confirm the grade distributions and variograms were run to confirm continuity of grades within the zones.
Processing the unique Nkamouna ore will require crushing, attritioning and particle sizing to produce a high-grade, coarse concentrate (“PUG”). The PUG plant basically consists of a receiving hopper and two stages each of crushing, attritioning and particle classifying to produce coarse, high-grade concentrates low-grade middlings and fine tailings . The concentrate will be conveyed to a receiving bin at the process plant. As 60% of the cobalt is concentrated in only 20.5% of the ore weight, the process plant size is much smaller and financial performance is dramatically improved compared to processing run-of-mine ore.
Economic evaluation criteria were based on supplying a fixed 2,000 tonnes ore per day (“tpd”) of product from the PUG plant to the process plant at an average of 1.87:1 Waste:Ore ratio. This yields an average mine production rate of 23,000 tpd with approximately 8,000 tpd of ore, and a maximum of 28,000 tpd for equipment sizing and operating cost estimation.
A net revenue cutoff of $12.00 per tonne of ore was used to define the ore and the net revenue summary. After the estimated economic costs and recoveries were applied to the resource model, a contour map was developed around the profitable blocks to represent the pit floor. This is similar to what a floating cone does in a three-dimensional model, but the Nkamouna resource model is more similar to a two-dimensional seam model.
The Nkamouna mineral reserves presented in Table 2 are classified as a Proven plus Probable.
TABLE 2
Nkamouna Project, Cameroon
Mineral Reserve Statement
(1) Geovic estimates the contained metal to be approximately 299.4 million lbs of cobalt, 829.2 million lbs of nickel and 728 thousand tonnes of manganese.
Mining Operations
Table 3 below summarizes the estimates of project economics for the Nkamouna Project included in the Nkamouna Technical Report, which is based on the data and processes reviewed in the feasibility study completed by consultants in December 2007 (the “FFS”). PAH has not reviewed the OS and the Nkamouna Technical Report has not been revised or updated since it was prepared in early 2008. Because GeoCam expects to significantly revise the methodology for ore processing on site at Nkamouna, a revised feasibility study is expected to be obtained before proceeding with any mine construction activities. However the following data summarizes the assumptions made by PAH in the Nkamouna Technical Report.
The Nkamouna Project will be mined as an open-pit utilizing hydraulic shovels and excavators and 54-tonne trucks as the primary mining equipment.
The mine plan described in the Nkamouna Technical Report was developed from the resource model by creating blocks around the resource that are approximately 150 meters wide and 500 meters long. The 150 meters wide blocks were developed on logical breaks in the resource model and are not uniform in dimension. The average grade and value of each block was then determined.
Design of the ultimate pit was based on mining the higher valued blocks first with a natural development of the block sequence to allow backfilling of the blocks with mine waste. The blocks are developed in a direction progressing downhill. This will minimize the haul distance in the early years by first developing the blocks closest to the plant.
Mine design started with the completion of the resource model. The seam model was then diluted to represent the thickness expected to be mined using reasonably selective equipment and methods. The dilution is based on a minimum of one meter of ore so that less than one meter is considered waste and if the inter-burden between ore layers is less than 2 meters it is taken with the ore. There were many areas where the inter-burden was 1 to 2 meters in thickness with some low grade values and it was determined that it would be easier to mine this with the ore than try to segregate the waste, thereby simplifying the mining method. The ore zones become much more uniform by allowing 2 meters of low grade interburden to the mined as ore.
The average annual mining rate is 8.3 million tonnes material over the initial 19 year mine life. This includes 5.4 million tonnes of waste per year and 2.9 million tonnes of ore per year and results in an average stripping ratio of 1.87 to 1. Conventional truck and shovel mining methods will be utilized with the processing of ore at 9,000 tonnes per day yielding an average annual production of 9.2 million pounds of cobalt and 7.0 million pounds of nickel.
All major access and haul roads will be crowned with sufficient thickness of screened ferricrete breccia mine waste and compacted to create road surfaces that will minimize interruptions to project operations during rainy seasons.
The PUG plant throughput at a nominal 9,800 tpd will generate 7,000 tpd of fine tailings, 800 tpd of middling concentrates and 2,000 tpd of feed to the metal recovery plant. The PUG tailings will be disposed of in the NCTSF. The middling concentrate will be backfilled and stored in separate areas of the mine.
Processing operations are designed to produce high purity cobalt and nickel oxide products that are directly marketable or readily converted into cathodes or other chemical compounds. Plant operations during the initial 17 years are estimated to recover 175 million pounds of cobalt, and 133 million pounds of nickel. Economic recovery of Manganese was not considered in the Nkamouna Technical Report, although production of significant amounts of Manganese carbonate from operations was noted.
The total initial capital estimated in the Nkamouna Technical Report is approximately $397 million, with an additional $51 million of working capital required during mine life. Sustaining capital required over the initial 19-year mine life was estimated at $87 million in the Technical Report. Base case estimated cash operating cost per pound of cobalt produced was $3.12 after nickel by-product credits, including direct and indirect costs and production taxes.
The base case used three-year average metal prices $20.08 per pound of cobalt and $11.16 per pound of nickel. Project payback is estimated at 2.9 years based on these assumptions. Total before-tax cash flow is estimated at $2.53 billion.
Reserve estimates were based on the prices used for establishing reserves as summarized in Table 2 above. The Leveraged Case assumes the same metal prices as the Base Case but assumes 60 percent debt and 40 percent equity with eight year loans at 8.5 percent.
Returns would vary significantly depending on metal prices and other factors. Significantly lower cobalt and nickel prices at year end 2008 would decrease returns and increase the time required for project payback, among other things.
Additional sensitivity models were prepared that varied the capital and operating costs, metal prices and metal recovery. The following Table reflects the Company’s information contained in the Nkamouna Technical Report and does not include information included in the optimization study completed in September 2008 (“OS”) or preliminary studies commenced by the Company since receipt of the OS.
TABLE 3
Nkamouna Project, Cameroon
Economic Evaluations
(1) Note: Net of nickel by-product credit, and including production taxes.
The following table reflects the reported annual average spot price for cathodes for cobalt and nickel as reported by Platt’s Metals Week and Metals Bulletin (Macquarie) for Cobalt and London Metals Exchange for nickel for each of the last five years, and the last reported price in December 2008. This information was not included in the Technical Report.
MADA PROJECT
Information in this section is summarized, from the Mada Technical Report, Nkamouna and Mada Cobalt Projects, Cameroon dated March 12, 2007 prepared by PAH for Geovic and the Company on behalf of GeoCam (the “Mada Technical Report”).
Portions of the following information are based on assumptions, qualifications and procedures which are set out only in the full Mada Technical Report. For a complete description of assumptions, qualifications and procedures associated with the following information, reference should be made to the full text of the Mada Technical Report which is available from the Company’s website at www.geovic.net.
Property Description and Location
The Mada Project is adjacent to and 10 kilometers north of the Nkamouna Project. The closest village is Kongo Village, situated more than 8 kilometers (5 miles) from the Nkamouna Project. At present it takes about one hour to drive the 40 kilometres between Lomie and the Mada Project site.
Accessibility, Climate, Local Resources, Infrastructure and Physiography
Physical attributes of the Mada Project are essentially the same as for the adjoining Nkamouna Project, described above. Nevertheless, GeoCam will need to develop a site specific environmental study of the Mada Project, much the same as was produced for Nkamouna.
The Mada deposit is relatively flat. There is a swamp and small depression in the center of the deposit. The deposit is a crescent shape about 8 kilometers from east to west and 14 kilometers from north to south. The perimeter of the deposit has an approximate elevation of 760 meters above sea level, with the lower central depression of 680 meters.
History
Between 1995 and 2003, Geovic carried out extensive pitting at Mada. This work was performed by Geovic employees and consultants on behalf of GeoCam.
The Mada property is undeveloped, as are the other five laterite mineralized plateaus included under the Mine Permit. Geology of the deposit is similar to the Nkamouna Project, described above.
By 2003, Geovic had largely completed the initial pit digging program at Mada. Much more intensive work was carried out on the nearby Nkamouna Project. Until 2008, when 980 holes, totaling 22,717 meters, were drilled, and 19,839 assay samples gathered from the holes. No extensive drilling had been conducted at the Mada Project before 2008. All previous samples had been obtained by developing pits or shafts of a nominal 1.25 meter diameter. Assay and sample results for 2008 drilling are expected to be received by late summer 2009.
Mineralization
Before the 2008 drilling, only 13% of the Mada pits were logged as penetrating the entire deposit profile reaching bedrock (schist, quartzite, or serpentinite), and many of these pits were outside the mineralized area. Consequently, sampling density at Mada was sparse. Nevertheless, through 2003, Geovic shipped more than 3,200 Mada pit samples to accredited assay laboratories to determine cobalt, nickel, chromium and manganese content.
Deposits
From a geological perspective, the Mada deposit is essentially indistinguishable from the Nkamouna Project. The only significant difference between the deposits is that the potentially mineralized area at Mada is approximately seven times larger than Nkamouna. A detailed drilling and sampling program began in the second half of 2007 with the object to try to establish ore reserves in the southern part of the deposit.
Mining Operations
If ore reserves can be demonstrated, it is envisioned that the Mada deposit will likely be mined as an open-pit similar to Nkamouna. No mine plan has been developed to date. GeoCam will await results from 2008 and commencement of further development of the Nkamouna Project drilling before taking steps toward development activities.
United States Mining Leases And Claims
We are actively engaged in the strategic acquisition, exploration and development of other mineral properties to diversify our portfolio of mineral exploration and development opportunities. To that end, in 2007 and early 2008 we actively leased mineral properties and staked mining claims in the United States through our wholly-owned subsidiary, Geovic Energy.
Arizona Properties
Through geologic mapping and geochemical sampling, the Company identified several new areas of gold and uranium mineralization in the Whetstone Mountains, located approximately 40 miles southwest of Tucson, Arizona. The Company located 51 federal lode claims covering approximately 1,000 acres in the area of
expected uranium-gold mineralization in the northern Whetstone Mountains in 2007. In addition to the indicated uranium mineralization in the area, the pre-Cambrian hosted shear zones also appear to contain anomalous fluorite, copper and gold. Based upon its initial findings, the Company leased approximately 16.8 square kilometers (6.5 square miles) of state of Arizona mineral lands in the vicinity of the gold occurrence.
The Whetstone Mountain area where the claims are located was previously explored in the 1970s and 1980s by Rocky Mountain Energy (Union Pacific Railroad) and Unocal (Union Oil Co of California), at a time when members of the Company’s management were employed by the latter company. Mining claims and other mineral properties held by those entities were abandoned by 1990. Related documentation compiled by those early operators show that the newly acquired properties have significant uranium oxide (U3O8) mineralization. The Company plans to re-drill the historic resource areas if warranted by values for uranium properties, and to test for associated gold mineralization in these zones along the pre-Cambrian hosted structures.
Colorado/Wyoming Properties
We also targeted and acquired fee mineral leases over the known uranium deposits in the Denver-Cheyenne Basin of Northeastern Colorado and Southeastern Wyoming. These 10- and 15-year mineral leases cover large portions of the six (6) main known uranium deposits in Weld County, Colorado and Goshen County, Wyoming, covering approximately 15,500 acres believed to host historical uranium deposits at depths ranging from 120 feet to 600 feet below the surface. These deposits are believed to include significant uranium mineralization, as established by other operators in the 1970s, including Unocal. Through the leases it now holds, Geovic Energy has control over much of the known mineralized area in Eastern Weld County, Colorado and Goshen County, Wyoming.
In 2008, we participated in a federal mineral staking venture in Sweetwater County, Wyoming and acquired an interest in 571 federal mining claims. In addition to leasing private lands, we have applied for leases and permits on state and federal lands containing expected uranium mineral trends.
Until uranium prices declined significantly beginning in mid-2008, we were planning a development-drilling program to confirm resources present in these uranium properties, in preparation for establishing reserves. However, these plans will be deferred until more dependable commodity pricing can be expected. Accordingly in the fourth quarter 2008 we elected to write off the carrying value of our uranium properties for financial reporting purposes.
As of March 1, 2009 we hold undeveloped interests in the following properties:
Undeveloped Uranium Leases
Denver-Cheyenne Basin - Northeast-CO
Mining Claims-Undeveloped
Wyoming and Arizona
State Mineral Exploration Permits and Leases
Other Activities
We have organized three subsidiary corporations, including Geovic Mineral Sands Corp., and one corporation in each of France and New Caledonia, in preparation for prospecting and exploration activities we plan to undertake in 2009.
ITEM 3.