ITEM 2.
DESCRIPTION OF PROPERTIES.
The Company subleases office space at 6240 East Seltice Way, Suite C, Post Falls, Idaho 83854 for $750 per month from Marlin Property Management, LLC an entity owned by the spouse of the Company President, Lindsay Gorrill. The Company believes this office space and facilities are sufficient to meet the Company's present needs, and do not anticipate any difficulty securing alternative or additional space, as needed, on terms acceptable to the Company.
The Company currently does not own any real property.
THE EXCALIBUR PROPERTY
On April 11, 2008, Star Gold Corp. executed a property purchase agreement (the "Excalibur Agreement") with MinQuest, Inc. ("MinQuest") granting the Company the right to acquire up to 100% of the mining interests within the Excalibur Property, a mineral exploration property. The property is located in Mineral County Nevada and the Excalibur Agreement originally covered 8 unpatented mining claims. On June 18, 2009, the Company and MinQuest entered into an amending agreement to add an additional 42 claims and expanding the total to 50 claims.
The Company has completed an initial exploration program on the Excalibur Property, which included Geological Mapping, Rock Sampling and Assaying. Based on this analysis we have decided to move forward with the permitting of this property and associated drilling program. The permitting was completed in June 2010 and the drilling program commenced the week of June 20, 2010.
History: The Moho vein, located within the Excalibur Property, was discovered in 1903 and mined intermittently until the 1930’s. According to the US Bureau of Mines IC 6941 written in 1937, the property produced over $100,000 of ore at an average grade of 1 opt gold, 6.5 opt silver and 1.4% lead. This equates to about 5000 tons of hand sorted ore. The report also states that an additional 250,000 tons of ore were blocked out which average approximately 8.5 ppm gold over 3.2 feet of width. After 1937 additional work was completed along the northern portion of the property. However, no additional production information is available for the property. The property went into foreclosure around 1984 and was held by the lender until 2006 when Tesoro Resources purchased the property. Although there is significant underground work and numerous trenches along strike of the mineralized zones, no apparent drilling was found within Tesoro’s property during this investigation. In 1991 Dennis Flagle discovered the Excalibur area. He leased the project to Alta Gold in 1996. The project is located approximately 3000 feet northeast of the Moho mine.
Alta staked an additional 120 claims south and east of Flagle’s original Excalibur claims. Alta reportedly conducted minimal geology, a soil sampling program and completed eleven RC drill holes from 1997 to 1998. Although this data is not currently available, it has been offered for sale by Mr. Flagle. Mr Flagle reports that some “highly” anomalous gold was encountered in two or more of the drill holes. Alta Gold went into receivership in 1998 and the property reverted to the lessor. The claims were abandoned shortly thereafter. MinQuest acquired the ground through staking of eight unpatented mining claims in 2004 and leased the project to Star Gold in 2007. Since that time an additional 46 claims have been added, 175 rock chip samples have been collected throughout the property and a geologic map with structure, alteration and cultural features has been completed.
Page 10 of 49
Geology: Outcrops within the project boundary have been mapped as Permian Mina Formation to recent alluvial fill. The oldest apparent unit outcropping in the area is at least partially of Permian age known as the Mina Formation. It has been age dated by K-Ar dates of detrital hornblende and by fossil fusulinids. The Formation is composed of silty to sandy shale and greywacke. Graded bedding and turbidity structures were noted in the field and were useful in identifying the upside of steeply dipping beds. This unit is green to gray grading from sands to feldspathic mudstone. Massive units are green in color and probably derived from a basic volcanic component. This unit is at least 600 feet thick based on mapping within the project area. The middle unit is composed of tuff with a pumice-rich basal layer. This unit is distinctive and can be used as a top-set indicator since bedding and sag structures in shale are generally destroyed by alteration. This unit is rather thin from a few feet to 20 feet thick. The upper unit is composed of massive to laminated gray to red-brown chert. It may be up to 200 feet thick in some places. However, this unit may be thickened by folding and faulting where mapped. The Mina Formation has been intruded by a Cretaceous quartz-eye granite porphyry stock on the south end of the project. This porphyry ranges from 89 to 93 Ma. The sediment contact is metamorphosed to slate and bleached quartzite. Feldspathic diorite plugs intrude the north and central portion of the property. The diorite has distinctive feldspar laths, often encased in another feldspar. These plugs may be lower Miocene in age correlating with other feldspathic diorite bodies elsewhere in the range. The age dates for similar plugs in the area range from 15 to 22 Ma. Fractionated mafic dikes or sills are probably related to the feldspathic diorite plugs. The dikes or sills utilize fault planes for emplacement. Most of the mineralization occurs during this phase and strongly affects adjacent slate, meta-tuff. Mild alteration effects are also noted within the quartz porphyry. The dikes are generally bleached and altered to clay suggesting mineralizing fluids are related to this event or at least provided plumbing for later hydrothermal fluids. A late stage leucocratic dike swarm parallels the main northwesterly trending valley bisecting the project. This dike swarm cuts all rock types and appears to be the youngest rock formation within the project boundary. No age dates are known for this unit.
Mineralization: Mineralization appears to be related to the mafic dikes and portions of the feldspathic diorite contacts. These intrusive events appear to have acted as conduits for hydrothermal fluids to migrate upwards and deposit minerals. Prospecting preferentially occurs along the diorite contact near the south-central portion of the claims, along the Moho “Vein”, and along altered mafic dikes and plugs identified elsewhere on the property. There are three distinct types of breccias related to historic prospecting activities. The first breccia type occurs along fault zones that contain zones of rubble up to 10 feet thick flanked by bright orange to red iron oxide staining. A second breccia type is represented by chert fragments cemented by chalcedonic silica. The third type of breccia is related to narrow calcite-filled fault zones and associated weak hematite staining resulting in pink calcite and breccia float trails which are poorly exposed. The bulk of the historic prospecting occurs along multiple, continuous, en echelon zones from 0.5 to 10 feet thick composed of hematite and sparcemented pebble breccias. These breccias wind through the faults zones and can be discontinuous and in discordant orientations. The zones are sometimes 'slaggy' specifically near diorite and mafic dike contacts. The Moho mine and parallel zones are 6 strongly associated with the diorite contact and along mafic dikes. The Moho “Veins” have been prospected to depths of 200 feet or more by multiple shafts and adits. The entire Moho “Vein” zone can be traced for over 7500 feet in length, 600 feet in width and over 1000 feet in elevation. The Central Target is represented by the extension of the Moho that lies within the current claim position can be traced for over 1800 feet before it is lost under alluvial debris. Samples along this extension range from 0.8 to 7 g/t gold and 6 to 90 g/t silver. The workings are less extensive on Stargold’s claim position. However, the low angle deposition of the mineralization coupled with multiple stacked veins indicates potential for either open pit or underground mining. Recent sampling and mapping have identified alteration consisting of silicified and brecciated zones with associated anomalous gold and silver concentrations. These alteration zones are located within the southern and northeastern portions of the property.
The Southern target is defined by an area roughly 1200 by 1500 feet composed of chert fragments cemented with chalcedonic silica. In places, later fault zones cut this material. The later faults contain clay gouge probably related to the aforementioned dikes and iron oxides. Gold values can be as high as 3 g/t, but are generally in the 0.1 to 0.8 g/t range. Silver values range from 3 to 80 g/t. The Northeastern target is hosted within brecciated chert and silicified diorite. Barite veins have been noted locally. Gold values range from 0.1 to 1.5 g/t and average 0.7 g/t while silver values can reach 10 g/t. This area was soil sampled by Alta Gold in 1997 and reportedly contained gold to 3 g/t in soils and 8 g/t in select rock chips. In 1998 Alta drilled five holes to test this target. The hole collars were poorly selected and proved to be too far from the target. Three holes failed to intersect any alteration while two holes were lost as they entered the mineralized zone. The area of anomalous gold is roughly 2500 feet by 900 feet. A target was also identified in the northwestern corner of the property. Samples collected from this area range from 0.8 to 14 g/t gold and 3 to 90 g/t silver from various pits and shafts. To date, this area appears to represent narrow, discontinuous structures hosted by a diorite plug. The target is currently considered too small and will need more work to bring it to a potential drill target.
THE LONGSTREET PROPERTY
References contained herein to “Figures” or “Tables” for the Longstreet Property may be found at http://stargoldcorp.com/projects/techreview.pdf or at www.stargoldcorp.com under the hyperlink to “Technical Review and
Page 11 of 49
Resource Report”. Certain portions of this report are derived from the “Technical Review and Resource Report” dated May 27, 2011.
In January of 2010 Star Gold signed an option agreement to lease with an option to acquire from MinQuest, 60 unpatented mining claims (the “Longstreet Property”) totaling approximately 490 hectares (the “Longstreet Agreement”). The Company is currently going through the permitting stage to allow it to commence drilling.
The terms of the Longstreet Agreement call for an initial cash payment of $20,000, issuance of 25,000 shares of Star Gold shares and 25,000 stock options based on “fair market price” to MinQuest. The Longstreet Agreement also requires cash payments totaling $250,000 over seven years and the issuance of 175,000 shares and 175,000 stock options based on “fair market price” over the same seven-year period. The Company has agreed to work commitments of $3,550,000 over seven years. Following the seventh anniversary of the agreement and if commitments have been met Star Gold shall receive a quitclaim deed for a 100% interest in the Longstreet Property in consideration of an ongoing 3% NSR to MinQuest.
The Longstreet project is located 48 kilometers southeast of the Round Mountain Mine in Nevada, Longstreet is a Round Mountain style volcanic-hosted gold deposit. Previous work on the property has defined a resource of +100,000 ounces of gold equivalent within the “Main” target which is open-ended. Main received the bulk of the drilling done on the property. The first vein mapping program ever done at Longstreet was completed in October, 2002. This work disclosed that gold-bearing veins at Main, as well as 6 other targets in the project area are steeply dipping. Most of the previous drilling was vertical. This indicates high potential to increase continuity, tonnage and grade of the resource. Surface geochemical sampling of veins from all the currently defined targets found gold values up to 18.1 g/t. As at Round Mountain the property contains strong potential for both open pit heap-leachable and high-grade millable ore.
The property is located 275 kilometers north-northwest of Las Vegas in Nye County, Nevada and 48 kilometers southeast of the Round Mountain Mine, which has produced 10 million ounces of gold to date. Located on U.S. Forest Service lands, the property is held via 60 unpatented mining claims and 5 unpatented claims on private land totaling approximately 4.9 km2. These claims cover part of the deep potential at Main and the NE Main target.
History: The Longstreet Property was discovered in the early 1900’s, but had limited development work until 1929. A 1929 report and maps show development of the “Golden Lion Mine” on two levels spaced 75 meters apart vertically. The report indicates development of 300,000 tons of “vein material” averaging 0.20 oz/ton (6.8 g/t) gold and 8 oz/ton (274 g/t) silver. A mill was constructed, the remnants of which are still on the property. However, the small stopes underground indicate very little mining was done and the operation was abandoned.
The property lay idle until 1980 when Keradamex Inc. and E & B Exploration formed a joint venture to explore the property. The venture conducted soil and rock chip geochemical surveys, limited underground sampling and drilled seven (one was abandoned) angle core holes into the Main mine workings area. This drilling revealed the presence of fracture related gold mineralization up to 36 meters thick extending into the hanging wall of the vein structure. Gold mineralization within this zone averaged 0.02- 0.528 oz/ton (0.7-18.1 g/t) and revealed the presence of a heap leachable target.  In 1982 Minerva Exploration optioned the property and initiated an underground sampling program. In 1983 a joint venture was formed with Geomex Canada Resources Ltd. Derry, Michener, and Booth were commissioned to assess the property and conducted underground sampling, bulk sampling and metallurgical testing.
In 1982 Minerva Exploration optioned the property and initiated an underground sampling program. In 1983 a joint venture was formed with Geomex Canada Resources Ltd. Derry, Michener, and Booth were commissioned to assess the property and conducted underground sampling, bulk sampling and metallurgical testing.
In early 1984 Naneco Resources Ltd., an Alberta company, acquired all of the assets of Minerva and an additional 10 percent interest in the property from Geomex. As operator, Naneco immediately initiated drilling. In 1985, with over 200 RC holes drilled the venture announced its drilling samples averaged 0.079 oz/ton (2.7 g/t) gold and 1.1 oz/ton (38 g/t) silver on the high end grade along
Page 12 of 49
with an additional low grade average of 0.021 oz/ton (0.72 g/t) gold and 0.4 oz/ton (14 g/t) silver.
During the next few years Naneco increased its interest from 53 percent to 100 percent, conducted additional metallurgy, economic evaluation and drilling. At least 492 RC holes have been drilled, most within the Main resource area. Unable to raise money because of falling gold prices and strapped with high land payments to the claim owners, Naneco dropped the property in 1998. MinQuest acquired it shortly thereafter. The Cyprus target, which was evaluated by Cyprus Minerals Company in 1987 was acquired by MinQuest in early 2002.
The property was optioned to Rare Earth Metals Corp. (REM) in May of 2002. REM later changed its name to Harvest Gold. Mapping and geochemical sampling of the 7 targets shown on the attached map was completed in October, 2002. From 2003 through 2005 REM drilled 30 holes into Main totaling 3,350 meters. The drill holes were angled toward the intersection of the two primary sheeted vein sets. Results showed a 20% improvement in average grade over vertical drilling.
When REM split into Harvest Gold and VMS Ventures Inc. all of the attention and funding went to VMS and Harvest did no additional work at Longstreet from late 2005 to the present. After continuing protests from MinQuest the property was finally returned in August, 2009. By agreement with Minquest, Star Gold Corp. received an option to acquire the property on January 15, 2010.
Regional Geology and Mineralization: The Longstreet Property is located in the Nevada portion of the Basin and Range Province. This geological province is characterized by repeated episodes of compressional deformation in Paleozoic and Mesozoic time followed by extensional deformation and extensive magmatism and volcanism in Cenozoic time. Gold deposits are most often described as being associated with ‘mineralization trends’, that are a reflection of deep crustal structures and magmatism, such as the ‘Walkers Lane’ and the ‘Carlin Trend’. The Longstreet Project is located in the Monitor Range, adjacent to the northwest trending Walker Lane volcanic-hosted gold trend that includes such world-class deposits as the Comstock and Goldfields mining camps (Figure 1).
Page 13 of 49
The Monitor Range is a westward-tilted fault block that has been elevated by normal faults along its eastern front, and is typical of the uplifted mountains of the Basin and Range Province. The ranges are topographic highs rising above alluvium-filled valleys generated by Tertiary extensional tectonics. Central Nevada was an area of intense Oligocene - Miocene ash-flow volcanism that created numerous calderas and their outflow products. At least 13 calderas that range in age between 32 and 22 Ma have been mapped or interpreted in the area extending from the Shoshone Mountains eastward to the Monitor Range. The southern Monitor Range consists Mainly of Tertiary age volcanics and hypabyssal rocks related to the eruption of the Big Ten Peak volcano and a nearby unnamed 29 Ma caldera (Kleinhampl and Ziony, 1985) intruding and overlying Paleozoic sedimentary and metamorphic rocks.
Page 14 of 49
The Paleozoic rocks are thrust-faulted marine sedimentary rocks comprised of quartzite, argillite and limestone of Cambrian, Ordovician and Silurian age. Minor amounts of Permian marine sediments are also present in the Georges Canyon area.
In the southern Monitor Range Tertiary age volcanic rocks comprise more than 90% of the exposed bedrock. These rocks are more than 1 km thick and are predominantly flat-lying. Early Oligocene to early Miocene rhyolitic to dacitic ash-flow tuffs, with rhyolitic welded tuff are the thickest and most extensive units. Most of the Tertiary intrusions in the region are rhyolitic, but several small dacitic to andesitic dikes are present in the Georges Canyon area.
Mineral deposits in this part of the Basin and Range Province are varied and widespread and some of them have (had) substantial metal production. The producing Round Mountain gold deposit is about 25 miles northwest, and the past-producing Manhattan Mining Camp (gold/silver) is about 20 miles west-northwest of the Longstreet Property.
The Round Mountain Mine is a giant among epithermal precious metal deposits hosted by volcanic rocks, and the mineralization is a classic example of low sulphidation epithermal gold mineralization (White and Hedenquist, 1995). Gold deposits were discovered at Round Mountain in 1906 (Shawe, 1982) and by 1959 about 410 thousand ounces (troy ounces) of gold had been produced from placer and narrow vein lode deposits. Current production by open-pit mining methods commenced in 1977. Kinross (2010) reported an annual production for 2010 at 184,554 ounces of AuEq, with over 66 million tons of proven and probable reserves.
The oxidized ore is described as a closely spaced set of steeply dipping veins and veinlets following northwest-trending faults and associated joints over broad areas. Significant gold mineralization is not found in northeast-trending faults and fractures. The vein/veinlet system contains quartz, adularia, limonite (oxidized from pyrite), manganese oxide and associated native free gold. Flat veins are similar to the steep veins in character and mineral content, but with more brecciation of the wall rocks. Gold contents also appear to be higher in the flat veins. The adularia in the ore related veins is dated at 25.9 to 26.6 Ma, which is indistinguishable from the age of the enclosing ‘Tuffs of Round Mountain’ welded ash flow tuffs. These tuffs were erupted from the Round Mountain caldera and were deposited within the caldera (Henry, Castor and Elson, 1996).
Hydrothermal alteration associated with the bulk mineable ore is evidenced by silicification and the replacement of magmatic feldspar by hydrothermal feldspar engendered by a potassium-rich hydrothermal fluid (Sander, 1988).
The Manhattan gold / silver camp is located approximately 20 miles west-northwest of the Longstreet Mine and is an example of Tertiary epithermal mineralization superimposed on Paleozoic sedimentary rocks. Gold / silver deposits were discovered at Manhattan in 1905 (Shawe, 1982) and by 1959 about 10,500 kg of gold and 4,400 kg of silver had been produced from placer and lode deposits. The lode deposits in the Manhattan district are of a variety of types, although they occur together in a coherent belt about 1 km wide, which follows the south side of the Manhattan caldera for about 10 km. The most productive deposits formed in strongly faulted argillite and quartzite of the Cambrian age Gold Hill Formation. The generally north-trending zones of mineralized fractures are stockworks containing quartz, adularia, pyrite (oxidized to limonite) and native gold similar to the sheeted zones at Round Mountain. The silver production recorded for this camp is related to electrum and various silver-bearing sulphosalts.
The Clipper Mine located approximately 5 miles southwest of the Longstreet Mine near Murphy Camp was discovered in 1903 and was worked intermittently until 1943. The mine was initially developed during World War I and included a 175 foot shaft and a 370 foot adit. Recorded production is about $12,000 (in 1951dollars) from mineralization having a gold to silver ratio of 1:1 and assaying from $34-124 per ton (1951 dollars). Host rocks are welded rhyolite ash-flow tuffs similar to the Longstreet mine.
The Little Joe Claim located 6 miles south-southwest of the Longstreet Mine was developed by a 75 foot inclined shaft. Gold-bearing veins in ‘rhyolitic tuff’ were mined but production details are lacking.
At an un-named mine, located 1.5 miles west of the mouth of Georges Canyon irregular gold / silver quartz veins and veinlets containing minor pyrite were exploited from a 25 foot inclined shaft. The vein system occurs in possible Paleozoic light gray chert and silicified argillite along a fault. No production details are available.
Mineralization on the Last Chance claims located 11 miles west-northwest of the Longstreet Mine and southwest of Big Ten Peak was discovered in the 1920s. Mineralization consists of argentiferous galena, minor sphalerite and pyrite occurring in irregular pipes and chimneys generally at the intersection of cross faults within a northwest-trending shear zone in pre-Tertiary rocks. This property was developed by a 30 m two compartment shaft and a 61 m adit. Production in the late 1920s is recorded as 13.6 tons containing an average of 720 g/t Ag, 21% Pb and 2% Zn. A further 18.1 tons produced in 1938 contained 240-275 g/t Ag and 8% Pb.
Page 15 of 49
Metallurgy: Kappes, Cassiday and Associates composited numerous oxide drill intercept cuttings and conducted bottle roll tests on 10 samples. Average results for -10 mesh samples were 85.4 percent gold and 37.9 percent silver recovery in 72 hours. Chemical consumption was normal. KCA then conducted column tests on three samples to test low, medium and high grade ore from underground. After crushing to -3/4 inch the samples averaged 82 percent gold and 29 percent silver recovery. Crushing to -6 mesh increased recovery to 93 percent for gold and 52 percent for silver. KCA also conducted agitated cyanide tests on pulverized material and obtained 92 percent gold and 81 percent silver recovery. These are the recoveries expected in a conventional mill.
Column leach tests were also done by Bacon-Donaldson on -2 inch material. Recoveries varied from 85-90 percent for gold and 9-28 percent for silver, with underground samples being more susceptible to leaching than surface samples. It appears the oxide zone of the Main deposit has reasonable leaching characteristics although silver recovery is poor.
Property Geology: Geologic mapping by MinQuest since 2002 indicates that the majority of the Longstreet Project is underlain by moderately to poorly welded rhyolite ash-flow tuff (‘Tat’) containing conspicuous exotic lithic fragments and pumice (Figures 5, 7, 8 and 9). The ash-flow tuff unit is buff to gray, and contains <10% quartz phenocrysts, 15% feldspar phenocrysts, 5-15% pumice and 5-20% other exotic fragments in an aphanitic groundmass (Liedtke, 1984). Hydrothermal alteration is prevalent and consists of argillic (bleaching and clay mineral development), silicic (pervasive silica flooding, or extremely high veinlet density) and potassic (adularia in quartz veinlets). Limonite and geothite development is considered to be weathering phenomena. These felsic ash-flow tuffs of Oligocene age are similar in age and character to the ‘tuffs of Round Mountain’, which host the Round Mountain Mine.
The Tat tuff unit (see Figures 7, 8 and 9) displays horizontal bedding and may be in the order of 3,000 feet thick. The ash-flow tuff is intruded by rhyolite porphyry dykes (‘Trp’) exhibiting various orientations, and may represent feeder conduits to now-eroded rhyolitic lithologies higher in the stratigraphy.
A thin discontinuous unit of volcaniclastic and siliceous sediments (‘Ts’), including sinter is deposited upon the ash-flow tuff unit. The unit is white, yellowish and light gray, bedded in part and probably represents a hiatus in volcanism. Siliceous alteration resulting in the development of sheeted quartz vein systems affects the Tat, Ts and Trp rock units.
Overlying the Tat tuff and the Ts sediments is a black to brown strongly welded ash-flow tuff (‘Trt’) that forms bluffs and caps ridges. This unit has a distinctive thin (about 10 feet) vitrophyre zone near its base. This unit is estimated to be 300 to 450 feet thick and possibly a correlative of the Saulsbury Wash Formation (21.6 +/- 0.6 Ma).
The tectonic fabric on the Longstreet Project includes two Main directions of faulting/fracturing that have an influence on the mineralization. An east-trending steeply north-dipping system of fractures and faults has been noted at five of the seven gold / silver zones on the Property (see Figure 6). Quartz -adularia - limonite veins / veinlets and ‘rusty fractures’ following this trend contain gold mineralization. The other important gold / silver-bearing fault/fracture direction is 300-330° with steep north dips, and is characterized by sheeted quartz veins / veinlets and ‘rusty fractures’. The vein / veinlets also contain adularia and iron oxide minerals derived from the oxidation of sulfide minerals. This mineralized trend occurs at all seven of the gold / silver zones known on the Longstreet Project. Major displacement is not a feature of these structures.
The Longstreet project is an example of gold / silver mineralization related to east-trending structures. An east-tending fault dipping 40-55° is associated with the highest-grade gold / silver mineralization known to date. The bulk of the gold / silver mineralization in the Longstreet Mine is contained in steeply dipping multiple vein sets in the hanging wall of the fault.
Liedtke (1984) indicates that similar fault directions are known 4,600 feet south and 2,800 feet north of the Longstreet Mine, which may host similar high-grade gold / silver mineralization.
Targets: A short description of the 7 currently identified drilling targets at Longstreet follows: 
Main- The target consists of intersecting high-angle NW and E-W sheeted vein systems. Completion of an angle drilling program to the southwest perpendicular to the intersection of the two vein sets will continue to produce improved continuity and higher tonnage and grade. Un-drilled extensions of this mineralization are indicated to the southeast and west.
NE Main: Approximately 450m N-NE of the Main resource there is a poorly-exposed, un-drilled target that looks identical to Main. The highest surface vein assay here is 0.93 ppm gold.   
Opal Ridge: This is an erosional remnant of a sinter apron that once covered a much larger area. Extensions of the Main resource are
Page 16 of 49
down-dropped approximately 60m with an apparent displacement to the north of less than 10m. E-W and NW high level opal-rich veins are exposed in the lower portion of the apron with gold values up to 0.51 ppm. Although there may be a higher stripping ratio here, more of the deposit may be preserved.
North: This is a sheeted vein system with identical vein attitudes to Main. Values up to 18.1 ppm Au indicate a strong system, although vein density appears to be less than at Main. The western end of the target has the strongest exposed mineralization.
Cyprus Ridge Zone: Quartz veins up to 5 m thick occur in this 1.1 km long northwest trending sheeted vein system. Cyprus Minerals Company completed a 920 m drill program in 1987. All of the Cyprus holes were vertical or high angle and none tested the large primary vein set. No high-grade gold was intersected in their drilling. MinQuest mapped the intricate vein system in 2002, and collected 41 surface samples that contained values of up to 11.16 g/t Au, but average values are approximately 0.50 g/t. Due to the abundance of low temperature silica, MinQuest concluded that the gold values are leakage anomalies from a deeper boiling zone. The boiling zone is a high priority drill target.
Red Knob Zone: Mineralization outcrops as northwest trending sheeted quartz-adularia veins over an area 150m wide by 300m long. Surface sampling found values up to 2.97 g/t gold. In addition, a boulder field on the north side of the target contains quartz-adularia veins up to 1m in thickness in an area of no outcrop. Drill intercepts from two holes testing a small portion of the target include 4.6 m @ 5.6 g/t Au and 7.6 m @ 0.99 g/t Au.
Spire: This is an E-W vertical to steeply north dipping sheeted vein system. Intersecting NW trending veins are present, but are much less abundant than at Main. The highest assay from Spire is 0.45 ppm gold.
There is a strong possibility of discovering two or more economic, open pitable, heap leachable, deposits grading +0.06 oz/ton (+2.1 g/t) gold with significant silver credits at Longstreet. In addition, the Cyprus target, has strong potential of becoming a high-grade +0.5 oz/ton (+17.1 g/t) underground mine. Situated on a high ridge-top, it could be easily mined from a canyon elevation adit.
THE JET PROPERTY
On July 7, 2010 the Company acquired, from MinQuest, a 100% mining interest in the Jet Property which is located in Nevada. The Jet Agreement calls for the Company to invest a total of $110,000 (consisting of $40,000 in direct payments to MinQuest and $70,000 in expenditures towards development of the project) over the next seven years. Under the agreement MinQuest is also entitled to receive residual payments if and when the project enters into production.
Location: The Jet Property is located between the Palmetto Mountains south of Silver Peak in Esmeralda County, Nevada about 300 kilometers northwest of Las Vegas. Goldfield, a 5.0 million ounce gold producer is 40 kilometers to the east. Access to the property is by 15 kilometers of good gravel road from Silver Peak.
Land Status: Star Gold holds the Jet Property via unpatented mining claims on BLM federal lands. MinQuest controls all claims that cover known targets within the Jet Property.
History: Several short adits were developed in the area in the 1920’s and1930’s. Three of the four adits found are open to inspection. There is no evidence of any production from this work. The property lay idle until 1974 when Lyle Cambell, working on a grubstake agreement with American Selco, sampled and recommended it for acquisition. Cambell’s dump sampling averaged 2.0 g/t Au with a few grab samples assaying as high as 22 g/t. American Selco sampled the underground working and developed a small reserve, according to Herb Duerr, who was one of the samplers. According to Duerr, some high grade values were found in brecciated quartz veins. MinQuest does not have this data, but sample tags are still present in the adits inspected.
Geology: Regionally, the Jet property is located within the Walker Lane, which hosts important precious metal deposits such as Bullfrog, Goldfield and Tonopah. The project area is underlain largely by chert, argillite and lessor limestone of the Ordovician age Palmetto formation that has been intruded by a large intermediate intrusive. The contact zone between the intrusive and sediment is a brecciated zone that strikes nearly east-west. Several apparently gently dipping quartz veins have been emplaced within this contact zone and then breccciated by further faulting. Post-mineral dikes, following late high angle faults are also present. Tertiary extrusive volcanics cover part of the surrounding area. The area has been partially buried by material eroded from higher topography to the south. One adit, near the base of the contact zone, intersects chacopyrite-bearing quartz that looks similar to high-grade gold ores in the Silver Peak district to the north. Sampling of quartz from the adits and dumps found significant gold values (up to 10.7 g/t) associated with the vein quartz.
Page 17 of 49
Targets: Initial inspection of underground workings at Jet indicates that the workings are largely accessible and should be systematically mapped and sampled. It currently appears that several veins occur in a contact breccia zone that is greater than 15 meters thick and gently dipping. Establishment of the attitude of this contact zone and confirmation of the grades found by American Selco could quickly produce a drill target. No drilling has been done on the property.
ITEM 3.