ITEM 2. PROPERTIES.
We rent office space from a company partially owned by our President and chief executive officer and director, Lindsay Gorrill, at 6240 East Seltice Way Suite C, Post Falls, Idaho, USA 83854. This office space consists of approximately 350 square feet, and Mr. Gorrill supplies this office space to the company at a cost of $750 per month.
We currently do not own any physical property or own any real property.
THE EXCALIBUR PROPERTY
On April 11, 2008, Star Gold Corp. formerly Elan Development, Inc. (the "Registrant") executed a property purchase agreement (the "Agreement") with MinQuest, Inc. ("MinQuest") granting the Registrant the right to acquire 100% of the mining interests of one Nevada mineral exploration property currently controlled by MinQuest, a natural resource exploration company. The property named the Excalibur Property (“ the Property"). The Property is located in Mineral County Nevada and currently consists of 8 unpatented mining claims. On June 18, 2009 Star Gold Corp. and MinQuest entered into an amending agreement to add an additional 42 Claims surrounding the current 8 claims, expanding the total claims to 50 claims held under the original purchase agreement.
We have completed an initial exploration program on the Excalibur Property,which included Geological Mapping, Rock Sampling and Assaying. Based on this analysis we have decided to move forward with the permitting of this property and our drilling program. The permitting was completed in June 2010 and our drilling program commenced the week of June 20th, 2010.
HISTORY
The Moho vein was discovered in 1903 and mined intermittently until the 1930’s.According to the US Bureau of Mines IC 6941 written in 1937, the property produced over $100,000 of ore at an average grade of 1 opt gold, 6.5 opt silver and 1.4% lead. This equates to about 5000 tons of hand sorted ore. The report also states that an additional250,000 tons of ore were blocked out which average approximately 8.5 ppm gold over 3.2 feet of width. Since 1937 additional work was completed along the northern portion of the project. However, no additional production information is available for the property. The property went into foreclosure around 1984 and was held by the lender until 2006 when Tesoro Resources purchased the property. Although there is significant underground work and numerous trenches along strike of the mineralized zones, no apparent drilling was found within Tesoro’s property during this investigation. In 1991 Dennis Flagle discovered the Excalibur area. He leased the project to Alta Gold in 1996. The project is located approximately 3000 feet northeast of the Moho mine.
Alta staked an additional 120 claims south and east of Flagle’s original Excalibur claims. Alta reportedly conducted minimal geology, a soil sampling program and completed eleven RC drill holes from 1997 to 1998. Although this data is not currently available, it has been offered for sale by Mr. Flagle. Mr Flagle reports that some “highly” anomalous gold wasencountered in two or more of the drill holes. Alta Gold went into receivership in 1998 and the property reverted to the lessor. The claims were abandoned shortly thereafter. MinQuest acquired the ground through staking of eight unpatented mining claims in 2004 and leased the project to Star Gold in 2007. Since that time an additional 46 claimshave been added, 175 rock chip samples have been collected throughout the property and a geologic map with structure, alteration and cultural features has been completed.
GEOLOGY
Outcrops within the project boundary have been mapped as Permian MinaFormation to recent alluvial fill.The oldest apparent unit outcropping in the area is at least partially of Permianage known as the Mina Formation. It has been age dated by K-Ar dates of detritalhornblende and by fossil fusulinids. The Formation is composed of silty to sandy shaleand greywacke. Graded bedding and turbidity structures were noted in the field and wereuseful in identifying the upside of steeply dipping beds. This unit is green to gray gradingfrom sands to feldspathic mudstone. Massive units are green in color and probably derived from a basic volcanic component. This unit is at least 600 feet thick based onmapping within the project area.The middle unit is composed of tuff with a pumice-rich basal layer. This unit isdistinctive and can be used as a top-set indicator since bedding and sag structures inshale are generally destroyed by alteration. This unit is rather thin from a few feet to 20feet thick.The upper unit is composed of massive to laminated gray to red-brown chert. Itmay be up to 200 feet thick in some places. However, this unit may be thickened byfolding and faulting where mapped.The Mina Formation has been intruded by a Cretaceous quartz-eye graniteporphyry stock on the south end of the project. This porphyry ranges from 89 to 93 Ma.The sediment contact is metamorphosed to slate and bleached quartzite.Feldspathic diorite plugs intrude the north and central portion of the property. Thediorite has distinctive (calcic?) feldspar laths, often encased in another (sodic?) feldspar.These plugs may be lower Miocene in age correlating with other feldspathic diorite bodieselsewhere in the range. The age dates for similar plugs in the area range from 15 to 22Ma.Fractionated mafic dikes or sills are probably related to the feldspathic dioriteplugs. The dikes or sills utilize fault planes for emplacement. Most of the mineralizationoccurs during this phase and strongly affects adjacent slate, meta-tuff. Mild alterationeffects are also noted within the quartz porphyry. The dikes are generally bleached andaltered to clay suggesting mineralizing fluids are related to this event or at least providedplumbing for later hydrothermal fluids.A late stage leucocratic dike swarm parallels the main northwesterly trendingvalley bisecting the project. This dike swarm cuts all rock types and appears to be theyoungest rock formation within the project boundary. No age dates are known for thisunit.
MINERALIZATION
Mineralization appears to be related to the mafic dikes and portions of thefeldspathic diorite contacts. These intrusive events appear to have acted as conduits forhydrothermal fluids to migrate upwards and deposit minerals. Prospecting preferentiallyoccurs along the diorite contact near the south-central portion of the claims, along theMoho “Vein”, and along altered mafic dikes and plugs identified elsewhere on theproperty.There are three distinct types of breccias related to historic prospecting activities.The first breccia type occurs along fault zones that contain zones of rubble up to 10 feetthick flanked by bright orange to red iron oxide staining. A second breccia type isrepresented by chert fragments cemented by chalcedonic silica. The third type of brecciais related to narrow calcite-filled fault zones and associated weak hematite stainingresulting in pink calcite and breccia float trails which are poorly exposed.The following targets The bulk of the historic prospecting occurs along multiple,continuous, en echelon zones from 0.5 to 10 feet thick composed of hematite and sparcementedpebble breccias. These breccias wind through the faults zones and can bediscontinuous and in discordant orientations. The zones are sometimes 'slaggy'specifically near diorite and mafic dike contacts. The Moho mine and parallel zones are6strongly associated with the diorite contact and along mafic dikes. The Moho “Veins”have been prospected to depths of 200 feet or more by multiple shafts and adits. Theentire Moho “Vein” zone can be traced for over 7500 feet in length, 600 feet in width andover 1000 feet in elevation. Previous reports indicate an inferred resource of ~250,000tons grading 8.5 ppm gold and 90 ppm silver has been blocked out by extensiveunderground sampling of existing workings.The Central Target is represented by the extension of the Moho that lies within thecurrent claim position can be traced for over 1800 feet before it is lost under alluvialdebris. Samples along this extension range from 0.8 to 7 g/t gold and 6 to 90 g/t silver.The workings are less extensive on Stargold’s claim position. However, the low angledeposition of the mineralization coupled with multiple stacked veins indicates potential foreither open pit or underground mining.Recent sampling and mapping have identified alteration consisting of silicified andbrecciated zones with associated anomalous gold and silver concentrations. Thesealteration zones are located within the southern and northeastern portions of the property.
The Southern target is defined by an area roughly 1200 by 1500 feet composed ofchert fragments cemented with chalcedonic silica. In places, later fault zones cut thismaterial. The later faults contain clay gouge probably related to the aforementioneddikes and iron oxides. Gold values can be as high as 3 g/t, but are generally in the 0.1 to0.8 g/t range. Silver values range from 3 to 80 g/t.The Northeastern target is hosted within brecciated chert and silicified diorite.Barite veins have been noted locally. Gold values range from 0.1 to 1.5 g/t and average0.7 g/t while silver values can reach 10 g/t. This area was soil sampled by Alta Gold in1997 and reportedly contained gold to 3 g/t in soils and 8 g/t in select rock chips. In 1998Alta drilled five holes to test this target. The hole collars were poorly selected and provedto be too far from the target. Three holes failed to intersect any alteration while two holeswere lost as they entered the mineralized zone. The area of anomalous gold is roughly2500 feet by 900 feet.A target was also identified in the northwestern corner of the property. Samplescollected from this area range from 0.8 to 14 g/t gold and 3 to 90 g/t silver from variouspits and shafts. To date, this area appears to represent narrow, discontinuous structureshosted by a diorite plug. The target is currently considered too small and will need morework to bring it to a potential drill target.
THE LONGSTREET PROPERTY
Star Gold has signed an option agreement for the Sole Exclusive Rights to Lease 60 unpatented mining claims totaling approximately 490 hectare from MinQuest Inc known as The Longstreet property. The company is currently going through the permitting stage to allow it to commence drilling.
The terms of the 100% option agreement: initial cash payment of $20,000 USD, issuance of 25,000 shares of Star Gold shares and 25,000 stock options based on “fair market price” to MinQuest Inc. The Option Agreement includes cash payments totaling $250,000 over seven years and the issuance of 175,000 shares and 175,000 stock options based on “fair market price” over the same seven-year period. The company has agreed to work commitments of $3,550,000 over seven years. Following the Seventh Anniversary and if commitments have been met Star Gold shall receive a quitclaim for 100% interest in the property in consideration of a 3% NSR to MinQuest Inc.
The Longstreet project is located 48 kilometers southeast of the Round Mountain Mine in Nevada, Longstreet is aRound Mountain style volcanic-hosted gold deposit. Previous work on the property has defined a resource of +100,000 ounces of gold equivalent within the “Main” target which is open-ended. Main received the bulk of the drilling done on the property. The first vein mapping program ever done at Longstreet was completed in October, 2002. This work disclosed that gold-bearing veins at Main, as well as 6 other targets in the project area are steeply dipping. Most of the previous drilling was vertical. This indicates high potential to increase continuity, tonnage and grade of the resource. Surface geochemical sampling of veins from all the currently defined targets found gold values up to 18.1 g/t. As at Round Mountain the property contains strong potential for both open pit heap-leachable and high-grade millable ore.
The property is located 275 kilometers north-northwest of Las Vegas in Nye County, Nevada and 48 kilometers southeast of the Round Mountain Mine, which has produced 10 million ounces of gold to date.
Located on U.S. Forest Service lands, the property is held via 60 unpatented mining claims and 5 unpatented claims on private land totalling approximately 4.9 km2. These clames cover part of the deep potential at Main and the NE Main target.
History: The Property was discovered in the early 1900’s, but had limited development work until 1929. A 1929 report and maps show development of the “Golden Lion Mine” on two levels spaced 75 meters apart vertically. The report indicates development of 300,000 tons of “vein material” averaging 0.20 oz/ton (6.8 g/t) gold and 8 oz/ton (274 g/t) silver. A mill was constructed, the remnants of which are still on the property. However, the small stopes underground indicate very little mining was done and the operation was abandoned.
The property lay idle until 1980 when Keradamex Inc. and E & B Exploration formed a joint venture to explore the property. The venture conducted soil and rock chip geochemical surveys, limited underground sampling and drilled seven (one was abandoned) angle core holes into the Main mine workings area. This drilling revealed the presence of fracture related gold mineralization up to 36 meters thick extending into the hanging wall of the vein structure. Gold mineralization within this zone averaged 0.02- 0.528 oz/ton (0.7-18.1 g/t) and revealed the presence of a heap leachable target.  In 1982 Minerva Exploration optioned the property and initiated an underground sampling program. In 1983 a joint venture was formed with Geomex Canada Resources Ltd. Derry, Michener, and Booth were commissioned to assess the property and conducted underground sampling, bulk sampling and metallurgical testing. They concluded there were reserves of 60,000 tons averaging 0.11 oz/ton (3.8 g/t) gold and 5 oz/ton (171 g/t) silver.
In early 1984 Naneco Resources Ltd., an Alberta company, acquired all of the assets of Minerva and an additional 10 percent interest in the property from Geomex. As operator, Naneco immediately initiated drilling. In 1985, with over 200 RC holes drilled the venture announced an oxidized drill inferred reserve of 850,000 tons averaging 0.079 oz/ton (2.7 g/t) gold and 1.1 oz/ton (38 g/t) silver along with an additional low grade reserve of 1.5 million tons averaging 0.021 oz/ton (0.72 g/t) gold and 0.4 oz/ton (14 g/t) silver.
During the next few years Naneco increased its interest from 53 percent to 100 percent, conducted additional metallurgy, economic evaluation and drilling. The most recent reported resource indicates a “drill proven reserve” of 140,000 ounces of gold. At least 492 RC holes have been drilled, most within the Main resource area. Naneco’s last announcement also states that total property potential is “considerably higher than the 280,000 ounces currently believed to exist”. Unable to raise money because of falling gold prices and strapped with high land payments to the claim owners, Naneco dropped the property in 1998. MinQuest acquired it shortly thereafter. The Cyprus target, which was evaluated by Cyprus Minerals Company in 1987 was acquired by MinQuest in early 2002.
The property was optioned to Rare Earth Metals Corp. (REM) in May of 2002. REM later changed its name to Harvest Gold. Mapping and geochemical sampling of the 7 targets shown on the attached map was completed in October, 2002. From 2003 through 2005 REM drilled 30 holes into Main totaling 3,350 meters. The drill holes were angled toward the intersection of the two primary sheeted vein sets. Results showed a 20% improvement in average grade over vertical drilling. MinQuest created drilling sections on 30m spacing and did geologic interpretation of the veins and calculated a resource using a 0.015 oz/ton (0.51 g/t) gold equivalent cut-off. The Main deposit has a calculated geologic resource totaling 2,847,690 tons at a non-diluted grade of 0.061 oz/ton (2.09 g/t) gold equivalent (172,571 ounces). It is estimated that roughly 60 percent of this resource (103,542 ounces) may be minable by open pit, heap leach methods.
When REM split into Harvest Gold and VMS Ventures Inc. all of the attention and funding went to VMS and Harvest did no additional work at Longstreet from late 2005 to the present. After continuing protests from MinQuest the property was finally returned in August, 2009. By agreement with Minquest, Star Gold Corp. acquired the property on January 15, 2010.
Geology and Metallurgy: The Longstreet Project hosts a Round Mountain type volcanic-hosted gold/silver district. As at Round Mountain the host rocks are poorly to moderately welded tuffs. The bulk of the mineralization is contained in steeply dipping multiple vein sets. The mineralized veins consist of quartz, pyrite and adularia. Round Mountain, which originally emphasized bulk mining and run of mine heap leaching, now is designing its mining around the occurrence of high grade veins. The property occurs near the eastern edge of the northwest-trending Walker Lane volcanic hosted gold trend that includes such world-class deposits as the Comstock and Goldfield. Within this trend there is a more local northwest trending belt of gold occurrences, with Round Mountain being the largest discovered to date.
Within the project area northwest and east-west trending shear zones host the bulk of the gold/silver mineralization. These shears average 65-75o dips, tend to be broad zones of many narrow veins and show normal movement (hanging wall down). Mapping has shown that not only are the veins steeply dipping, but that in 5 of the 7 targets both shear trends are present. This means that to penetrate the maximum number of veins, not only are angle drill holes critical, but that they must be oriented perpendicular to the intersection of the 2 sets.
Star Gold Corp. has plotted approximately 300 drill holes in the vicinity of the Main resource and produced cross-sections. Many of the holes are 30 meters or less in depth, which is insufficient to test the mineralization and most are vertical. The 30 angle holes by REM and mapping and sampling of the two adits that cross the mineralization have allowed a more accurate interpretation of the Main deposit. The deposit consists of three distinct vein orientations. Historical mining and exploration concentrated on the Adit vein, a nearly east-west trending 45o north dipping structure. In addition, two sets of nearly vertical (~70o) sheeted veins form an important part of the resource. These veins trend N80E (azimuth = 80) and N35W (azimuth = 325). After considerable study it has been determined that the most effective cross-section direction is along the intersection of these two vein directions, N11E (azimuth = 11). Although the historic vertical drilling gave a reasonable estimate of the Adit vein resource it had a small hit rate of high angle veins and missed the majority of this portion of the resource.
Interpretation of the cross sections shows the Main gold zone is open to the west and southeast. Additional drilling is needed on the deposit extensions. In addition six additional areas of sheeted veining associated with major shear zones have been identified. All have significant associated gold anomalies and several have some geochemical drilling. At Cyprus Ridge the primary target are primary veins up to 5 meters in true thickness. These 6 zones are described below under “Targets”.
Metallurgy: Kappes, Cassiday and Associates composited numerous oxide drill intercept cuttings and conducted bottle roll tests on 10 samples. Average results for -10 mesh samples were 85.4 percent gold and 37.9 percent silver recovery in 72 hours. Chemical consumption was normal. KCA then conducted column tests on three samples to test low, medium and high grade ore from underground. After crushing to -3/4 inch the samples averaged 82 percent gold and 29 percent silver recovery. Crushing to -6 mesh increased recovery to 93 percent for gold and 52 percent for silver. KCA also conducted agitated cyanide tests on pulverized material and obtained 92 percent gold and 81 percent silver recovery. These are the recoveries expected in a conventional mill.
Column leach tests were also done by Bacon-Donaldson on -2 inch material. Recoveries varied from 85-90 percent for gold and 9-28 percent for silver, with underground samples being more susceptible to leaching than surface samples. It appears the oxide zone of the Main deposit has reasonable leaching characteristics although silver recovery is poor.
Targets: A short description of the 7 currently identified drilling targets at Longstreet follows: Main- The target consists of intersecting high-angle NW and E-W sheeted vein systems. Completion of an angle drilling program to the southwest perpendicular to the intersection of the two vein sets will continue to produce improved continuity and higher tonnage and grade. Un-drilled extensions of this mineralization are indicated to the southeast and west.
NE Main: Approximately 450m N-NE of the Main resource there is a poorly-exposed, un-drilled target that looks identical to Main. The highest surface vein assay here is 0.93 ppm gold.   Opal Ridge: This is an erosional remnant of a sinter apron that once covered a much larger area. Extensions of the Main resource are down-dropped approximately 60m with an apparent displacement to the north of less than 10m. E-W and NW high level opal-rich veins are exposed in the lower portion of the apron with gold values up to 0.51 ppm. Although there may be a higher stripping ratio here, more of the deposit may be preserved.
North: This is a sheeted vein system with identical vein attitudes to Main. Values up to 18.1 ppm Au indicate a strong system, although vein density appears to be less than at Main. The western end of the target has the strongest exposed mineralization.
Cyprus Ridge Zone: Quartz veins up to 5 m thick occur in this 1.1 km long northwest trending sheeted vein system. Cyprus Minerals Company completed a 920 m drill program in 1987. All of the Cyprus holes were vertical or high angle and none tested the large primary vein set. No high-grade gold was intersected in their drilling. MinQuest mapped the intricate vein system in 2002, and collected 41 surface samples that contained values of up to 11.16 g/t Au, but average values are approximately 0.50 g/t. Due to the abundance of low temperature silica, MinQuest concluded that the gold values are leakage anomalies from a deeper boiling zone. The boiling zone is a high priority drill target.
Red Knob Zone: Mineralization outcrops as northwest trending sheeted quartz-adularia veins over an area 150m wide by 300m long. Surface sampling found values up to 2.97 g/t gold. In addition, a boulder field on the north side of the target contains quartz-adularia veins up to 1m in thickness in an area of no outcrop. Drill intercepts from two holes testing a small portion of the target include 4.6 m @ 5.6 g/t Au and 7.6 m @ 0.99 g/t Au.
Spire: This is an E-W vertical to steeply north dipping sheeted vein system. Intersecting NW trending veins are present, but are much less abundant than at Main. The highest assay from Spire is 0.45 ppm gold.
There is a strong possibility of discovering two or more economic, open pitable, heap leachable, deposits grading +0.06 oz/ton (+2.1 g/t) gold with significant silver credits at Longstreet. In addition, the Cyprus target, has strong potential of becoming a high-grade +0.5 oz/ton (+17.1 g/t) underground mine. Situated on a high ridge-top, it could be easily mined from a canyon elevation adit.
THE JET PROPERTY
On July 7th, 2010 the company acquired a 100% interest in the Jet Property located in Nevada from Minquest. The agreement calls for the Company to invest a total of $110,000 (consisting of $40,000 in direct payments to MinQuest and $70,000 in expenditures towards development of the project) over the next seven years. Under the agreement MinQuest is also entitled to receive residual payments if and when the project enters into production.
Location:
The property is located between the Palmetto Mountains south of Silver Peak in Esmeralda County, Nevada about 300 kilometers northwest of Las Vegas. Goldfield, a 5.0 million ounce gold producer is 40 kilometers to the east. Access to the property is by 15 kilometers of good gravel road from Silver Peak.
Land Status:
Star Gold holds the property via unpatented mining claims on BLM federal lands. MinQuest controls all claims that cover known targets.
History:
Several short adits were developed in the area in the 1920’s and1930’s. Three of the four adits found are open to inspection. There is no evidence of any production from this work. The property lay idle until 1974 when Lyle Cambell, working on a grubstake agreement with American Selco, sampled and recommended it for acquisition. Cambell’s dump sampling averaged 2.0 g/t Au with a few grab samples assaying as high as 22 g/t.
American Selco sampled the underground working and developed a small reserve, according to Herb Duerr, who was one of the samplers. According to Duerr, some high grade values were found in brecciated quartz veins. MinQuest does not have this data, but sample tags are still present in the adits inspected.
Geology:
Regionally, the Jet property is located within the Walker Lane, which hosts important precious metal deposits such as Bullfrog, Goldfield and Tonopah.
The project area is underlain largely by chert, argillite and lessor limestone of the Ordovician age Palmetto formation that has been intruded by a large intermediate intrusive. The contact zone between the intrusive and sediment is a brecciated zone that strikes nearly east-west. Several apparently gently dipping quartz veins have been emplaced within this contact zone and then breccciated by further faulting. Post-mineral dikes, following late high angle faults are also present. Tertiary extrusive volcanics cover part of the surrounding area. The area has been partially buried by material eroded from higher topography to the south.
One adit, near the base of the contact zone, intersects chacopyrite-bearing quartz that looks similar to high-grade gold ores in the Silver Peak district to the north. Sampling of quartz from the adits and dumps found significant gold values (up to 10.7 g/t) associated with the vein quartz.
Targets:
Initial inspection of underground workings at Jet indicates that the workings are largely accessible and should be systematically mapped and sampled. It currently appears that several veins occur in a contact breccia zone that is greater than 15 meters thick and gently dipping. Establishment of the attitude of this contact zone and confirmation of the grades found by American Selco could quickly produce a drill target. No drilling has been done on the property.
ITEM 3.