ITEM 2. PROPERTIES.
The Company headquarters are located at 611 E. Sherman Avenue, Coeur d'Alene, Idaho, 83814. The Company believes this office space and facilities are sufficient to meet the Company's present needs, and do not anticipate any difficulty securing alternative or additional space, as needed, on terms acceptable to the Company.
The Company currently does not own any real property. The Company owns a vehicle for business use in Nevada and other personal property used in the conduct of the Company’s business at its headquarters and at its various holdings in Nevada.
The Company is an exploration stage company with no proven or measured mineral reserves. There is no assurance that a commercially viable mineral deposit exists at the Longstreet Property. Further exploration and will be required before any final determination as to the economic or legal feasibility may be made as to the Company’s property.
THE LONGSTREET PROPERTY
In January of 2010 Star Gold signed an option agreement to lease with an option to acquire from MinQuest, 60 unpatented mining claims (the “Longstreet Property”) totaling approximately 490 hectares (the “Longstreet Agreement”). The Company completed its first phase of drilling in 2011. On July 9, 2010, the Company and MinQuest entered into an amended agreement to add an additional 10 claims and expanded the total to 70 claims, all of which are unpatented. In addition, Star Gold reimburses MinQuest for 5 claims leased from a third party, Roy Clifford. The property comprises 125 mineral claims (75 original optioned claims, of which 70 are unpatented staked claims and five claims acquired from local ranchers (Roy Clifford et al)), as well as 50 recently staked claims by Star Gold, covering a total area of approximately 2,500 acres (1,012 ha) (Figure 6-1). The claims are located within Sections 9-17, 20, and 21 of T6N, R47E, MDB&M (Mount Diablo Base Line & Meridian), Nye County.
Star Gold has staked 38 of these claims (Leach Pad Claims) adjacent to the eastern boundary of the property, with the objective of providing a site for leach pads planned for future development of the Main Zone. In addition, Star Gold has staked 12 of the above claims along a corridor leading from the main Longstreet property to the Leach Pad Claims.
Page 10 of 58
A list of claims, ownership and Bureau of Land Management (BLM) serial numbers is shown below:
Page 11 of 58
Page 12 of 58
Star Gold must make annual claim filing fees of $176.08 ($165 in 2015) per claim with the Bureau of Land Management (BLM), and Nevada/Nye County claim filing fees of $10.50 per claim plus $4.00 for filing with the Nye County office at Tonopah. The 2016 annual claim payments totaled $20,691.
The terms of the amended Longstreet Agreement called for an initial cash payment of $20,000, the issuance of 25,000 stock options based on “fair market price” to MinQuest on or about January 16, 2016. The amended Longstreet Agreement also requires cash payments totaling $230,000 over five years and 160,000 stock options based on “fair market price” over the same seven-year period. The Company has agreed to work commitments of $1,650,000 over five years. Following the fifth anniversary of the amended agreement and if commitments have been met Star Gold shall receive a quitclaim deed for a 100% interest in the Longstreet Property covered by the Longstreet Agreement, as amended, in consideration of an ongoing 3% NSR to MinQuest.
The Longstreet project is located 48 kilometers southeast of the Round Mountain Mine in Nevada. Longstreet is a Round Mountain style volcanic-hosted gold deposit. The first vein mapping program ever done at Longstreet was completed in October, 2002. This work disclosed that gold-bearing veins at Main, as well as 6 other targets in the project area are steeply dipping. Most of the previous drilling was vertical. This indicates high potential to increase continuity, tonnage and grade of the resource. Surface geochemical sampling of veins from all the currently defined targets found gold values up to 18.1 g/t. As at Round Mountain the property contains
Page 13 of 58
strong potential for both open pit heap-leachable and high-grade millable ore. No party reading this report should conclude the Longstreet property has economic mineralization due to Longstreet's proximity to Round Mountain. Comparison to this and other historic or producing mines is strictly informational relative to location and similar geologic characteristics.
History: The Longstreet Property was discovered in the early 1900’s, but had limited development work until 1929. A 1929 report and maps show development of the “Golden Lion Mine” on two levels spaced 75 meters apart vertically. The report indicates development of 300,000 tons of “vein material” averaging 0.20 oz./ton (6.8 g/t) gold and 8 oz./ton (274 g/t) silver. A mill was constructed, the remnants of which are still on the property. However, the small stopes underground indicate very little mining was done and the operation was abandoned.
The property lay idle until 1980 when Keradamex Inc. and E & B Exploration formed a joint venture to explore the property. The venture conducted soil and rock chip geochemical surveys, limited underground sampling and drilled seven (one was abandoned) angle core holes into the Main mine workings area. This drilling revealed the presence of fracture related gold mineralization up to 36 meters thick extending into the hanging wall of the vein structure.  In 1982 Minerva Exploration optioned the property and initiated an underground sampling program. In 1983 a joint venture was formed with Geomex Canada Resources Ltd. Derry, Michener, and Booth were commissioned to assess the property and conducted underground sampling, bulk sampling and metallurgical testing.
Page 14 of 58
Page 15 of 58
In 1982 Minerva Exploration optioned the property and initiated an underground sampling program. In 1983 a joint venture was formed with Geomex Canada Resources Ltd. Derry, Michener, and Booth were commissioned to assess the property and conducted underground sampling, bulk sampling and metallurgical testing.
In early 1984 Naneco Resources Ltd., an Alberta company, acquired all of the assets of Minerva and an additional 10 percent interest in the property from Geomex. As operator, Naneco immediately initiated drilling. In 1985, with over 200 RC holes drilled the venture announced encouraging results with anomalous grades of gold and silver throughout its drilling samples.
During the next few years Naneco increased its interest from 53 percent to 100 percent, conducted additional metallurgy, economic evaluation and drilling. At least 492 RC holes have been drilled, most within the Main resource area. Unable to raise money because of falling gold prices and strapped with high land payments to the claim owners, Naneco relinquished the property in 1998. MinQuest acquired it shortly thereafter. The Cyprus target, which was evaluated by Cyprus Minerals Company in 1987 was acquired by MinQuest in early 2002.
The property was optioned to Rare Earth Metals Corp. (REM) in May of 2002. REM later changed its name to Harvest Gold. Mapping and geochemical sampling of the 7 targets shown on the attached map was completed in October, 2002. From 2003 through 2005 REM drilled 30 holes into Main totaling 3,350 meters. The drill holes were angled toward the intersection of the two primary sheeted vein sets. Results showed a 20% improvement in average grade over vertical drilling.
Following the split of REM into Harvest Gold and VMS Ventures Inc. Harvest performed no further work at Longstreet after late 2005. The property was finally returned to MinQuest in August, 2009. By agreement with Minquest, On January 15, 2010 Star Gold Corp. received an option to acquire the portions of the property covered by the option.
Star Gold began drilling in the fall of 2011. A 16-hole program at Main showed new intercepts at depth in the central portion of the deposit. Intercept thicknesses of +0.01 oz./ton gold equivalent values are 65 to 120 feet. Of the 16 holes drilled 8 have +100 feet thicknesses of +0.01 oz./ton gold equivalent and 4 have +200 feet thicknesses of +0.01 oz./ton gold equivalent. Drill hole LS-1101 has 305 feet of +0.01 oz./ton gold equivalent. Gold equivalent values were derived from the following formula: AuEq oz./ton = Au oz./ton + (Ag oz./ton)/60. Drilling results are shown in the table below.
Drill samples were sent through a rotating, wet sample splitter attached to the drill in order to reduce the sample volume and maintain a representative sample. Drill helpers, under the supervision of the project geologist, collected and bagged an 'A' and 'B' sample on 5-foot intervals. Procedurally, an 'A' sample is collected and held by the project geologist for security purposes until it can be delivered to an assay facility. The 'B' sample then remains on site as a duplicate or backup sample if needed at a later date. A blank and two known 'standard’ pulps are then submitted randomly spaced with each drill hole. Once assays are available, they are examined for unexpected high or low values. If unexpected high or low values are encountered, the 'B' splits may be collected and submitted, or the lab may be requested to re-assay the pulp or reject in question. The 'check' samples and 'standard' are examined to insure they agree with the original or know within accepted limits, usually +or- 10%.
ALS Chemex of Reno, Nevada did all sample preparation, including crushing, grinding and preparation of the assay pulps. The samples were never left unattended or unsecured by project geologist, drilling or laboratory staff nor are they handled by officers, directors or associates of Star Gold.
Sample preparation involves crushing the entire sample to -10 mesh, splitting, then pulverizing 1,000 grams to 75% passing 75-micron mesh. These pulps are then transferred within the ALS Chemex facility for assay. Both gold and silver assays are done by fire assay with an AA finish. The standard Star-Longstreet submittal to ALS Chemex requests a 30-gram charge for gold fire assay. Assays which exceed 10 g/ton are automatically subjected to a gravimetric finish. Select sample intervals, usually those near intervals assaying significant gold, are chosen by the project geologist for re-assay also.
The Longstreet project is associated with a paleo-hot springs system in a caldera associated volcanic setting very similar to the Round Mountain mine. Round Mountain is an open pit, heap-leach mine that has produced over 10 million ounces of gold over a 30-year period with the average grade currently being mined of 0.018 oz./ton gold. Cut-off grades for Round Mountain and several other oxide ore heap leach operations in Nevada range from 0.003 to 0.005 oz./ton gold. Star Gold hopes to develop an open pit, bulk minable, heap leachable gold/silver mine at Longstreet.
No party reading this report should conclude the Longstreet property has economic mineralization due to Longstreet's proximity to any historic or producing mines and any information regarding any such historic or producing mines is strictly informational relative to location and similar geologic characteristics.
Page 16 of 58
Regional Geology and Mineralization: The Longstreet Property is located in the Nevada portion of the Basin and Range Province. This geological province is characterized by repeated episodes of compressional deformation in Paleozoic and Mesozoic time followed by extensional deformation and extensive magmatism and volcanism in Cenozoic time. Gold deposits are most often described as being associated with ‘mineralization trends’ that are a reflection of deep crustal structures and magmatism, such as the ‘Walker Lane’ and the ‘Carlin Trend’. The Longstreet Project is located in the Monitor Range, adjacent to the northwest trending Walker Lane volcanic-hosted gold trend that includes such world-class deposits as the Comstock and Goldfields mining camps
Page 17 of 58
The Monitor Range is a westward-tilted fault block that has been elevated by normal faults along its eastern front, and is typical of the uplifted mountains of the Basin and Range Province. The ranges are topographic highs rising above alluvium-filled valleys generated by Tertiary extensional tectonics. Central Nevada was an area of intense Oligocene - Miocene ash-flow volcanism that created numerous calderas and their outflow products. At least 13 calderas that range in age between 32 and 22 Ma have been mapped or interpreted in the area extending from the Shoshone Mountains eastward to the Monitor Range. The southern Monitor Range consists Mainly of Tertiary age volcanics and hypabyssal rocks related to the eruption of the Big Ten Peak volcano and a nearby unnamed 29 Ma caldera (Kleinhampl and Ziony, 1985) intruding and overlying Paleozoic sedimentary and metamorphic rocks.
The Paleozoic rocks are thrust-faulted marine sedimentary rocks comprised of quartzite, argillite and limestone of Cambrian, Ordovician and Silurian age. Minor amounts of Permian marine sediments are also present in the Georges Canyon area.
In the southern Monitor Range Tertiary age volcanic rocks comprise more than 90% of the exposed bedrock. These rocks are more than 1 km thick and are predominantly flat-lying. Early Oligocene to early Miocene rhyolitic to dacitic ash-flow tuffs, with rhyolitic welded tuff are the thickest and most extensive units. Most of the Tertiary intrusions in the region are rhyolitic, but several small dacitic to andesitic dikes are present in the Georges Canyon area.
Mineral deposits in this part of the Basin and Range Province are varied and widespread and some of them have (had) substantial metal production. The producing Round Mountain gold deposit is about 25 miles northwest, and the past-producing Manhattan Mining Camp (gold/silver) is about 20 miles west-northwest of the Longstreet Property.
The Round Mountain Mine is a giant among epithermal precious metal deposits hosted by volcanic rocks, and the mineralization is a classic example of low sulphidation epithermal gold mineralization (White and Hedenquist, 1995). Gold deposits were discovered at Round Mountain in 1906 (Shawe, 1982) and by 1959 about 410 thousand ounces (troy ounces) of gold had been produced from placer and narrow vein lode deposits. Current production by open-pit mining methods commenced in 1977. Kinross (2010) reported an annual production for 2010 at 184,554 ounces of AuEq, with over 66 million tons of proven and probable reserves.
The oxidized ore is described as a closely spaced set of steeply dipping veins and veinlets following northwest-trending faults and associated joints over broad areas. Significant gold mineralization is not found in northeast-trending faults and fractures. The vein/veinlet system contains quartz, adularia, limonite (oxidized from pyrite), manganese oxide and associated native free gold. Flat veins are similar to the steep veins in character and mineral content, but with more brecciation of the wall rocks. Gold contents also appear to be higher in the flat veins. The adularia in the ore related veins is dated at 25.9 to 26.6 Ma, which is indistinguishable from
Page 18 of 58
the age of the enclosing ‘Tuffs of Round Mountain’ welded ash flow tuffs. These tuffs were erupted from the Round Mountain caldera and were deposited within the caldera (Henry, Castor and Elson, 1996).
No party reading this report should conclude the Longstreet property has economic mineralization due to Longstreet's proximity to any historic or producing mines and any information regarding any such historic or producing mines is strictly informational relative to location and similar geologic characteristics.
Hydrothermal alteration associated with the bulk mineable ore is evidenced by silicification and the replacement of magmatic feldspar by hydrothermal feldspar engendered by a potassium-rich hydrothermal fluid (Sander, 1988).
The Manhattan gold / silver camp is located approximately 20 miles west-northwest of the Longstreet Mine and is an example of Tertiary epithermal mineralization superimposed on Paleozoic sedimentary rocks. Gold / silver deposits were discovered at Manhattan in 1905 (Shawe, 1982) and by 1959 about 10,500 kg of gold and 4,400 kg of silver had been produced from placer and lode deposits. The lode deposits in the Manhattan district are of a variety of types, although they occur together in a coherent belt about 1 km wide, which follows the south side of the Manhattan caldera for about 10 km. The most productive deposits formed in strongly faulted argillite and quartzite of the Cambrian age Gold Hill Formation. The generally north-trending zones of mineralized fractures are stockworks containing quartz, adularia, pyrite (oxidized to limonite) and native gold similar to the sheeted zones at Round Mountain. The silver production recorded for this camp is related to electrum and various silver-bearing sulphosalts.
The Clipper Mine located approximately 5 miles southwest of the Longstreet Mine near Murphy Camp was discovered in 1903 and was worked intermittently until 1943. The mine was initially developed during World War I and included a 175 foot shaft and a 370 foot adit. Recorded production is about $12,000 (in 1951dollars) from mineralization having a gold to silver ratio of 1:1 and assaying from $34-124 per ton (1951 dollars). Host rocks are welded rhyolite ash-flow tuffs similar to the Longstreet mine. The Little Joe Claim located 6 miles south-southwest of the Longstreet Mine was developed by a 75 foot inclined shaft. Gold-bearing veins in ‘rhyolitic tuff’ were mined but production details are lacking.
At an un-named mine, located 1.5 miles west of the mouth of Georges Canyon irregular gold / silver quartz veins and veinlets containing minor pyrite were exploited from a 25 foot inclined shaft. The vein system occurs in possible Paleozoic light gray chert and silicified argillite along a fault. No production details are available.
Mineralization on the Last Chance claims located 11 miles west-northwest of the Longstreet Mine and southwest of Big Ten Peak was discovered in the 1920s. Mineralization consists of argentiferous galena, minor sphalerite and pyrite occurring in irregular pipes and chimneys generally at the intersection of cross faults within a northwest-trending shear zone in pre-Tertiary rocks. This property was developed by a 30 m two compartment shaft and a 61 m adit. Production in the late 1920s is recorded as 13.6 tons containing an average of 720 g/t Ag, 21% Pb and 2% Zn. A further 18.1 tons produced in 1938 contained 240-275 g/t Ag and 8% Pb.
Metallurgy: 2013 Metallurgical Test Program
The 2013 metallurgical test work program was conducted by McLelland Laboratories under the direction of a QP metallurgical engineer contracted by Star Gold. The program included bottle roll tests, column tests and comminution tests and mineralogical examination.
Section Sample Assays
A total of 65 underground adit samples weighing 816 pounds (370kg) and three surface samples weighing 904 pounds (410kg) were collected for metallurgical testing. Each of these samples were crushed to 100% -2 inches (50mm) and assayed for gold and silver in duplicate. Assay results are listed in Table 8.2. Samples were combined to generate surface and underground composites, as well as a blended master composite. Triplicate direct assays were conducted on each composite. Standard deviations between triplicate head assays were high, particularly for the surface master composite. The agreement between the triplicate splits was not good, however the average of the triplicate assays is close to what was expected, based on the section assays. It was noted that the Quality Control samples all checked out as well, which indicates that the assays are good and the gold occurrence in the potentially economic mineralization is just a little “spotty”.
Page 19 of 58
.1 Gold Head Assays and Head Grade Comparisons
A total of twenty pieces of rock from both underground and surface were selected for comminution testing. The remainder of the samples were separately stage crushed to 100% -2-inches (-50mm). Each of the underground and surface samples were then blended to form a master composite representing both the underground and surface samples. The blended sample was then split to generate a third master composite. Samples were collected for bottle roll tests. All composites were then further crushed to 80% -3/4 inch (19mm), blended, then split into 75kg lots for column testing. Selection sample assay results and detailed blending procedures are provided in the Appendix to this report.
Bottle Roll Testing
A bottle roll test was conducted on each of the three composites at an 80% -10 Mesh (1.7mm) feed size to determine lime requirements for column leach testing. Gold and silver recoveries were similar for all three composites. Gold recoveries ranged from 80.6% to 81.9% and silver recoveries ranged from 17.5% to 20.0%.
Additional bottle roll tests, at a cyanide concentration of 1.0g NaCN/L were conducted on the blended master composite at feed sizes of 100% -2 inches (50mm), 80% -3/4 inches (19mm) and 80% -1/4 inch (6.3mm) to determine sensitivity to feed size. The blended master composite showed a moderate sensitivity to feed size with respect to gold and silver recovery. Recovery was 18.4% higher for gold, and 13.9% higher for silver, at a feed size of 80% -1/16 inches (1.7mm) than at a feed size of 100% -2 inches (50mm).
Silver recovery, for each bottle roll test conducted, was low. In order to investigate the cause of the low silver recovery, three additional bottle roll tests were conducted on the blended master composite to determine response to increased cyanide concentration (5.0g NaCN/L) at typical heap leach (80% -3/4 inches, 80% -1/4 inches) and milled (80% -200 Mesh (75µm)) feed sizes.
Results showed that increasing the cyanide concentration did not significantly increase silver recovery at heap leach feed sizes, however, silver recovery increased substantially when feed was finely ground. Silver recovery was 60.6% from the bottle roll test conducted on 80% -200 mesh material. Gold recovery was also moderately higher when fine grinding was employed. Mineralogical analysis of head and tail samples of the blended master composite confirm that the primary reason for low silver recovery is due to the very fine grained nature of the silver sulfide, which when exposed, is readily leachable. The silver leach rate at 200 mesh was extremely fast. Silver recovery was complete within the first two hours, which suggests that the silver mineralization is very fast leaching once liberated. In contrast, silver-bearing jarosites tend to be refractory and are usually unaffected by leaching regardless of the grind size.
Summary results from bottle roll testing are given in Table 8.3. Detailed bottle roll test data including leach rate figures, are provided in the attached spreadsheet.
Page 20 of 58
Bottle Roll Test Results, 2013
Both gold and silver recoveries are slightly improved with increased crush size, the increase in recovery is more pronounced in the silver as compared to gold when a fine grind is applied. Figure 8.3 illustrates this. It is important to keep in mind that in order to reduce the particle size to 80 % passing 75 microns a conventional comminution circuit employing crushing and grinding would be required.
Figure . Crush Size Versus Metal Recovery
Column Leach Testing
Column leach test were conducted on each of the master composites, utilizing a feed size of 80% -3/4 inch (19 mm) in order to determine gold and silver recoveries, recovery rates and reagent requirements under simulated heap leach conditions. Lime additions were based on bottle roll tests. Test columns were sized at 15 cm diameter by 3 meters high using PVC piping with material stacked in the leaching columns in a manner in which to minimize particle segregation and compaction. Leaching was conducted by applying a cyanide solution of 1.0g NACN/L over the charge at a feed rate of 12 Lph/m2 of column cross sectional area. After leaching, fresh water rinsing was conducted to remove residual cyanide and to recover dissolved gold and silver values.
Detail column leach tests data, including screen analysis of the feed and tails and drain down rates can be found in the Appendix, identified as McLelland Report No. 3829 entitled Heap Leach Cyanidation Testing Longstreet Project, dated April 6, 2014.
Page 21 of 58
All three composites were leached for 190 days. Gold and silver extractions for the surface master composite (SMC) reached 88.9 % and 20.0 %, respectively. Gold and silver extraction for the underground master composites (UMC) was 84.6 % for gold and 15.4 % for silver. The master blend composite (MBC) achieved gold and silver recoveries of 86.3 and 16.7 respectively. Summary results from column leach testing are provided in Table 8.4. Detailed results, including leach rate figures are provided in the Appendix.
Summary Metallurgical Test Results
Recovery results by size fraction for all three master composites indicates that finer crushing would not substantially improve gold recovery. Gold recovery was similar throughout the various size fractions with only a slightly elevated recovery in the finest size fraction (-75 microns). Silver recovery on the other hand would benefit from a finer particle size and would require fine grinding in order to maximize recovery.
Overall metallurgical results indicate that the Longstreet master composites are readily amenable to simulated heap leach treatment at 80 % -19 mm feed size. Gold recoveries for all three composites were similar and ranged from 84.6 % to 88.9 % in 190 days of leaching and rinsing. Silver recoveries were similar for all three samples, with recoveries ranging from 15.4 % to 20.0%.
It is important to note that although the column tests were conducted over a period of 190 days, gold extraction was essentially completed in the first 30 days of leaching. Silver leach rates, on the other hand, were very slow and it is not expected that they would improve beyond the 190 day cycle.
Cyanide consumption rates were high and ranged from 1.56 to 1.93 kg NaCN/t of ore. This was due in part to the long leach times. Cyanide consumption rates in a commercial operation are typically much lower.
Figures 8.4, 8.5 and 8.6 diagramatically illustrate the leach rates and results for gold and silver.
Page 22 of 58
Figure Surface Master composite leach kinetics
Figure Underground master composite leach kinetics
Page 23 of 58
Figure Master blend composite leach kinetics
Property Geology: Geologic mapping by MinQuest since 2002 indicates that the majority of the Longstreet Project is underlain by moderately to poorly welded rhyolite ash-flow tuff (‘Tat’) containing conspicuous exotic lithic fragments and pumice (Figures 5, 7, 8 and 9). The ash-flow tuff unit is buff to gray, and contains <10% quartz phenocrysts, 15% feldspar phenocrysts, 5-15% pumice and 5-20% other exotic fragments in an aphanitic groundmass (Liedtke, 1984). Hydrothermal alteration is prevalent and consists of argillic (bleaching and clay mineral development), silicic (pervasive silica flooding, or extremely high veinlet density) and potassic (adularia in quartz veinlets). Limonite and geothite development is considered to be weathering phenomena. These felsic ash-flow tuffs of Oligocene age are similar in age and character to the ‘tuffs of Round Mountain’, which host the Round Mountain Mine.
The Tat tuff unit (see Figures 7, 8 and 9) displays horizontal bedding and may be in the order of 3,000 feet thick. The ash-flow tuff is intruded by rhyolite porphyry dykes (‘Trp’) exhibiting various orientations, and may represent feeder conduits to now-eroded rhyolitic lithologies higher in the stratigraphy.
A thin discontinuous unit of volcaniclastic and siliceous sediments (‘Ts’), including sinter is deposited upon the ash-flow tuff unit. The unit is white, yellowish and light gray, bedded in part and probably represents a hiatus in volcanism. Siliceous alteration resulting in the development of sheeted quartz vein systems affects the Tat, Ts and Trp rock units.
Overlying the Tat tuff and the Ts sediments is a black to brown strongly welded ash-flow tuff (‘Trt’) that forms bluffs and caps ridges. This unit has a distinctive thin (about 10 feet) vitrophyre zone near its base. This unit is estimated to be 300 to 450 feet thick and possibly a correlative of the Saulsbury Wash Formation (21.6 +/- 0.6 Ma).
The tectonic fabric on the Longstreet Project includes two Main directions of faulting/fracturing that have an influence on the mineralization. An east-trending steeply north-dipping system of fractures and faults has been noted at five of the seven gold / silver zones on the Property (see Figure 6). Quartz -adularia - limonite veins / veinlets and ‘rusty fractures’ following this trend contain gold mineralization. The other important gold / silver-bearing fault/fracture direction is 300-330° with steep north dips, and is characterized by sheeted quartz veins / veinlets and ‘rusty fractures’. The vein / veinlets also contain adularia and iron oxide minerals derived from the oxidation of sulfide minerals. This mineralized trend occurs at all seven of the gold / silver zones known on the Longstreet Project. Major displacement is not a feature of these structures.
The Longstreet project is an example of gold / silver mineralization related to east-trending structures. An east-tending fault dipping 40-55° is associated with the highest-grade gold / silver mineralization known to date. The bulk of the gold / silver mineralization in the Longstreet Mine is contained in steeply dipping multiple vein sets in the hanging wall of the fault.
Liedtke (1984) indicates that similar fault directions are known 4,600 feet south and 2,800 feet north of the Longstreet Mine, which may host similar high-grade gold / silver mineralization.
Page 24 of 58
Targets: A short description of the 7 currently identified drilling targets at Longstreet follows: 
Main- The target consists of intersecting high-angle NW and E-W sheeted vein systems. Completion of an angle drilling program to the southwest perpendicular to the intersection of the two vein sets will continue to produce improved continuity and higher tonnage and grade. Un-drilled extensions of this mineralization are indicated to the southeast and west.
NE Main: Approximately 450m N-NE of the Main resource there is a poorly-exposed, un-drilled target that looks identical to Main. Sampling of surface veins at NE Main reveal anomalous gold values.   
Opal Ridge: This is an erosional remnant of a sinter apron that once covered a much larger area. Extensions of the Main resource are down-dropped approximately 60m with an apparent displacement to the north of less than 10m. E-W and NW high level opal-rich veins are exposed in the lower portion of the apron with anomalous gold values. Although there may be a higher stripping ratio here, more of the deposit may be preserved.
North: This is a sheeted vein system with identical vein attitudes to Main. Values up to 18.1 ppm Au indicate a strong system, although vein density appears to be less than at Main. The western end of the target has the strongest exposed mineralization.
Cyprus Ridge Zone: Quartz veins up to 5 m thick occur in this 1.1 km long northwest trending sheeted vein system. Cyprus Minerals Company completed a 920 m drill program in 1987. All of the Cyprus holes were vertical or high angle and none tested the large primary vein set. No high-grade gold was intersected in their drilling. MinQuest mapped the intricate vein system in 2002, and collected 41 surface samples that contained anomalous to highly anomalous (several times background to hundreds of times background) veins. Due to the abundance of low temperature silica, MinQuest concluded that the gold values are leakage anomalies from a deeper boiling zone. The boiling zone is a high priority drill target.
Red Knob Zone: Mineralization outcrops as northwest trending sheeted quartz-adularia veins over an area 150m wide by 300m long. Surface sampling found anomalous gold values. In addition, a boulder field on the north side of the target contains quartz-adularia veins up to 1m in thickness in an area of no outcrop. Drill intercepts from two holes testing a small portion of the target revealed anomalous gold values.
Spire: This is an E-W vertical to steeply north dipping sheeted vein system. Intersecting NW trending veins are present, but are much less abundant than at Main. .Surface sampling at Spire had detected anomalous gold values.
Star's geologists believe sampling and drilling results to date warrant optimism of one or more economic, near surface, bulk-mineable, heap leach-recoverable gold-silver deposits at Longstreet targets described above. In addition, sampling at surface near the Cyprus target suggests the presence of higher grade veins, which may be suitable to underground mining methods. Situated on a high ridge-top, it could be easily mined from a canyon elevation adit.
Environmental, plan of operation and reclamation: To the Company’s knowledge, there is no known surface disturbance or groundwater contamination from previous mining activities. Remediation activities are performed immediately after completion of exploratory drilling. With respect to historical mining activities, there is no indication of reclamation at this time, therefore, the Company has no plans to remediate. The Longstreet property is within Forest Service lands and Star Gold has applied for and received a Plan of Operation from the Forest Service allowing exploration drilling. A surface disturbance bond of $21,600 has been paid and is held by the Forest Service until reclamation is completed. There are no other significant environmental requirements.
ITEM 3.