ITEM 2. PROPERTIES.
Executive Offices
As of the date of this report, our executive offices are located at Suite 810, 675 West Hastings Street, Vancouver, British Columbia V6B 1N2, Canada.
Mineral Properties
Acquisition of Primary Mining Licenses in Uyowa, Tanzania
On July 19, 2011, Guardian Investment Ltd, a related party, on behalf of the Company, entered into a mineral properties option agreement to acquire four primary mining licenses within the northern most prospecting license of the seven comprising the Uyowa Gold project. The total consideration is of $490,000, of which $40,000 was paid in 2012 and $50,000 paid in fiscal year 2013. During the year ended March 31, 2014, the option agreement was terminated and 4 PMLs were transferred back to their respective owners.
Licenses
The following table is a complete list of gold mining and prospecting licenses that we own by project name, license number, the area of location, district of its location and the size in square kilometers. We own no prospecting property other than the following licenses listed on the chart. There are no known reserves on these properties and any proposed programs by us are exploratory in nature.
Table 1: Gold Projects and License List
Uranium Projects and License List
All uranium licenses were expired during the last fiscal year.
Prospective Projects and Properties
The following map is a gold project location map (Map 1). For a detailed listing see Licenses - Gold Projects and License List (Table 1).
Map 1: Gold Project Location Map, March 2014
Prospective Gold Projects
The following is a brief overview of our portfolio of prospective mineral properties, the exploration developments on them where applicable and some of the details of the historical option agreements for them. During the fiscal year ended March 31, 2014, our exploration work was primarily confined to the Kinyambwiga Gold Project.
Musoma Bunda Murangi Gold Project
The Musoma Bunda Murangi Project is now comprised of 2 Prospecting Licenses covering 33.47 square kilometers. During 2013, the 39 PMLs, totaling 3.44 square kilometres located on the Kinyambwiga PL PL4653/2007 were amalgamated and incorporated back within the PL (5 July 2013). This was undertaken in order to facilitate the application for a Mining Licence (Map 2).
On August 2, 2013, The Company completed and filed an Environmental and Social Impact Assessment report for the Kinyambwiga mining project covering the amalgamated 39 PMLs with the National Environmental Management Council (NEMC) on August 2, 2013. The Environmental Certificate was approved by January 7th 2014. This was shortly followed by the submission of the Mining application to the Ministry of Mines.
No field exploration was undertaken during this reporting period on the Kinyambwiga (PL4653/2007) nor Suguti (PL3966/2006) Licenses other than a trial test pit that was dug by excavator at the proposed Kanunga Mine site on the Kinyambwiga Project to evaluate the upper saprolite horizon for geotechnical studies.
Exploration Strategy
The Kinyambwiga License has been reduced from 30.90 square kilometers to 13.47 square kilometers as part of the required Government relinquishment of 50 percent of the ground holdings on License renewal. The southern part of the License area, largely covered by dark gray to black, clay rich soil and underlain by granitic rocks with no known artisanal workings, was relinquished. The Company maintained the northern part of the License which is host to the Kanunga 1, 2 and 3 artisanal or small scale mine sites. The relinquished area is currently under application on account of a soil anomaly in the NE corner of the License.
The new artisanal or small scale mining site, located 1 kilometer along strike to the east of Kanunga 2, has been abandoned. Furthermore, the +500 artisanal miners that were mining the surface quartz rubble at Kanunga 3 in the northern part of the license have ceased operations and left the site.
Map 2: Plan showing the 24 PMLs plus the 15 additional PMLs that have now been amalgamated and incorporated within PL 4653/2007.
The Kanunga 1 Prospect has been earmarked for commercial small scale mining operations that are expected to proceed once necessary funding and the issuing of a Mining License has been achieved. The ESIA report, completed by TANSHEQ a local Tanzanian consulting firm specializing in Environmental Management, has been approved by the National Environmental Management Council (NEMC) on the 23rd December 2013 and the Environmental Certificate issued to Lake Victoria Resources (T) Ltd on the 7 January 2014. An application for the Mining License, covering the amalgamated 39 PMLs, together with the required Environmental Certificate, was submitted to the Ministry of Energy and Minerals early in 2014. A slight revision of the proposed Mining Licence was requested by the Ministry of Mines in order to reduce the amount of corner beacons presented by the current PML layout and which has subsequently increased the surface area to 5.12 square kilometres (Map 3). The Mining License ML520/2014 was offered by the Ministry of Energy and Minerals of Tanzania (MEM) on April 1, 2014 and officially received on June 2, 2014.
Map 3: Proposed Mining application area (in purple) covering the Kanunga small scale gold mine site. The outline perimeter of the amalgamated 39 PMLs is shown by the red boundary line.
A scoping study covering metallurgical test work, mine planning, mine scheduling (details of which were included in the 1st Quarter Report 2013) and preliminary financial evaluations has been prepared. A capital investment of US$3M is an estimated requirement for building the project.
Mine Planning
The Kanunga 1 Prospect consists of a small, conceptual gold target that is based on 40 meter spaced reverse circulation drill sections and trenches and may contain gold bearing mineralized material of between 600,000 and 1,000,000 tonnes. The estimated gold grades are between 1.50 and 2.00 g/t. The mineralized area which lies in three vein structures at Kanunga 1, is within the first 150 and 200 meters of surface. Continuity of the narrow quartz veins appears to extend along a strike length for about 500 meters.
The potential quantity and grade of these targets are conceptual in nature. There has been insufficient exploration to define a mineral resource and that it is uncertain if further exploration will result in the target being delineated as a mineral resource. The conceptual target has been determined on the results of trenching, mapping, geophysics and both RC and RAB drilling.
It is currently proposed to mine the mineralization by open pit mining methods using an excavator and trucks to transport the ore to an onsite processing plant. A vertical test pit to a depth of 8 meters was excavated in granitic saprolite (host rock) at site using a Caterpillar 320 excavator in a relatively short time of 3 hours. The results of the test pit proved good retaining rock wall strength, ease of excavation and the lack of ground water.
The proposed site plan showing location of pit, waste dumps and processing plant is shown in Map 4.
Map 4: Site plan showing the proposed position of the rock waste dump tailings dam and the pit. 100 meter and 200 meter buffer zone from the pit and representing an area of non-inhabitation and limited farming activities, as per requirement by the Mining Act of Tanzania, is indicated.
Based on the results of the test pit undertaken in the 1st Quarter, a pit slope of 55-60 degrees was re-modeled for the open pit, using 10 meter and 7 meter benches (Map 5 & Map 6). At this time, the last bench in the 40m deep pit would be steeper depending upon the reach of the equipment and rock strength of the pit walls.
The rock dump and tailings dam have been re-designed (Map 7 & 8) to accommodate approximately 1.5M tons and 260,000 tons respectively; this is the estimated amount of rock to be mined to a depth of 40 meters.
Map 5: Plan view of the open pit on the Kanunga 1 showing the access ramp and benches
Map 6: Longitudinal and cross sections of the Kanunga1 Pit
Map 7: Plan and profile section of the rock waste dump
Map 8: Plan and profile section of the tailings dam
The Mining and Mill plan is designed for processing 300 tonnes per day (Chart 1).
Chart 1: Flow sheet diagram showing the conceptual processing plant
Mining Application
The Environmental Impact Assessment (ESIA) report, completed by TANSHEQ, a local Tanzanian consulting firm specializing in Environmental Management, was submitted to the Tanzanian Government’s National Environmental Management Council (NEMC) on the 2nd August 2013 and was approved on the 23rd December 2013. The company received the approved report on January 7th, 2014 (see news release dated January 9th, 2014). The Company has been awarded the Environmental Certificate of approval, registration number EC/EIS/1106, issued under the Environmental Management Act No.20 of 2004 and signed by the Tanzanian Minister of Environment. The EIA Certificate is valid during the entire life cycle of the project based on the Company’s compliance with the General and Specific Conditions of its issuance.
The Company has already completed the Mining and Processing License Application to cover not only the Kanunga Prospect but also the 39 amalgamated Primary Mining Licenses (PMLs) previously held by the Company’s Tanzanian subsidiary. The area, totalling 5.12 square kilometers also includes the 2 other known gold occurrences at Kanunga 2 and 3. The Mining application was submitted to the Ministry of Energy and Minerals in January 2014 and a Mining License was granted in April 2014.
Future work
With the Mining and Processing application approval and a Mining License being awarded by the Ministry Energy and Minerals, the Company will be in a position to proceed with the proposed mine plan.
A prospective exploration area lies to the east of the Kanunga 1 Prospect and is referred to as the Kanunga School Anomaly. With the Mining License approval, the Company will be in the position to make application for the area in order to do follow-up investigation of this gold anomaly.
An anomalous stone layer as encountered from previous RAB (rotary air blast) drilling during 2009 as well as the soil anomaly over the school zone requires further investigation. A number of auger drill traverses are planned to test the strike towards the SW where a number of anomalous soil samples are present (Map 9). Since this area was previously relinquished as part of the government’s requirement to reduce the PL area by 50 percent, an application to renew the area of “shed-off” was filed with the Ministry of Mines.
Map 9: Kanunga 1 East and School soil anomalies
The recent influx of +500 artisanal miners at the Kanunga 3 Prospect, situated approximately 1 kilometer to the north of Kanunga 1 (Map 10), was short lived. After processing some of the surface quartz gravels, the miners migrated elsewhere and off the license. The prospect consists of abundant quartz float covering an area of 200 meters x 200 meters which has been the site for periodic artisanal activity over the years. Trenching and reverse circulation drilling intersected a number of narrow discontinuous quartz veins (Map 11).
Map 10: Distribution of recently acquired PMLs (green and purple blocks) and showing positions of Kanunga 1, 2 and 3 prospects as well as the Kanunga School gold-in-soil anomaly in the eastern part of the Kinyambwiga licenses.
Map 11: Kanunga 3 prospect showing results of trenching and drilling undertaken across the area.
Suguti (PL3966/2006)
No exploration work has been undertaken on the Suguti License during the year from 31st March 2013 to 31st March 2014.
The Company decided not to place an application bid in for the northern part of the Suguti License, preferring to reserve the exploration funds for more advanced projects within the Company portfolio. The current License is scheduled to be relinquished.
Singida Gold Project
No exploration work was undertaken during the year from 31st March 2013 to 31st March 2014.
Future exploration
An evaluation of the Reverse Circulation drill results for both Phase 1 and 2 programs undertaken during 2010 and 2011 has shown that gold mineralization at the Singida-Londoni project consists of narrow, medium to low grade and often discontinuous lenses. The shear structures hosting the gold-rich zones typically “pinch and swell” along strike, which in places, has resulted in larger pods of limited size as at Sambaru 3 and Sambaru 4 which indicates that the gold deposits have limited potential to be developed into a major ore resource contrary to the Company’s vision of discovering substantially larger and economically viable gold deposits in the short term. In this regard, the Company believes that the nature and extent of the mineralization revealed thus far may lend itself towards a small-scale commercial mining operation. The Company intends to explore the possibilities of undertaking a small scale mining operation on a number of PMLs once a scoping study has been completed.
Although the Company completed a Technical report in compliance with Canadian National Instrument 43-101 prior to the September 2010 revised code, it was not submitted. The report is to be prepared under the revised guidelines.
Buhemba Gold Projects
The Buhemba Gold projects comprise of the Kiabakari East (PL7142/2007) and the recently acquired Maji Moto (HQ-P23869) licenses.
No exploration work was undertaken on either of the Licenses during the year from 31st March 2013 to 31st March 2014.
Kiabakari East (PL7142/2011)
The Kiabakari East Project is located approximately 55 kilometers southeast of Musoma town, in the Mara Region. The PL, covering 14.94 square kilometers and lying within the central part of the Musoma-Mara Greenstone Belt, was granted to Lake Victoria Resources by the Ministry of Mines in April 2011.
No exploration work was undertaken during the year from 31st March 2013 to 31st March 2014.
Future exploration
Metallurgical test work is to be undertaken on the oxide rock material taken from artisanal working and trenches on surface as part of the scoping study to determine the viability of commencing and open pit/underground small scale mining operation at BIF Hill. In order to get a better understanding of the geology and gold mineralisation, the Company is considering developing a north trending adit from the southern side at the base of the hill at a later date.
Maji Moto Gold Project (HQ-P23869)
A recent acquisition to the North Mara group of Licenses is the Maji Moto License that was awarded to the Company by the Ministry of Mines through application and tender in April 2012. The License is situated in the North Mara Greenstone Belt (Eastern Musoma Goldfields) approximately 28 kilometers to the SW of African Barrick’s North Mara Gold Mine (Map 1).
Map 12: Location map of Maji Moto HQ-P23869
Note: HQ-O23869 is the Application number. The License has yet to be allocated a PL number by the Ministry.
Artisanal workings:
Three artisanal sites are present in the northern part of the License (Map 23):
1.
Located at Kitarahota Hill, some 2 kilometres east of Maji Moto village is actively being mined by a relatively small group of artisanal miners. The site, located on the lower slope of the Kitarahota Hill, consists mostly of surface workings.
2.
Nyamarubiti Hill, located in the north-eastern arm of the License was an active artisanal site in 1980s and is only being worked sporadically by a handful of artisanal miners.
3.
Kebosi Hill, situated on the north-western arm of the License and east of the much larger Kitengara Hill. This site does not appear to be as extensively mined as site 2 and is currently not being mined by artisanal miners.
Map 23: Geology of HQ-P23869
Other than a reconnaissance visit to the License, exploration has not yet commenced.
The following exploration strategy (Phase 1) will be followed as soon as a field camp is established on site:
Regional ground Magnetic survey
Regional mapping of the License
Regional soil sampling on 200 meter x 50 meter sample grid
Detailed mapping and soil/rock sampling at and around the artisanal sites
Schlumberger profiles across the known artisanal sites.
Phase 2 will be dependant on the results achieved from the Phase 1 exploration programme.
Uyowa Gold Project
The Uyowa Gold project, located 120 kilometers northwest of Tabora town, previously consisted of seven (7) Prospecting Licenses (PLs) that initially covered a total area of 729.73 square kilometers in the west-central area of Tanzania. Due to increased Ministerial costs of annual renewals coupled with the Company’s objective to focus its exploration efforts on more potentially viable ground holding, the number of licenses has now been reduced to 2 PLs amounting to 264.11 square kilometers (Map 14).
Four PMLs on PL5153/2008 were optioned to the Company but have subsequently been returned to their respective owners. No exploration work was undertaken on any of the Licenses during the year from 31st March 2013 to 31st March 2014.
Map 34: Current license holdings of the Uyowa Poject
Future exploration
Interpretation of the ground magnetic survey suggests the presence of a graben structure that coincides with the last of the artisanal workings on the western side of known mineralized zone. The area, unlike the artisanal site where laterite is often exposed on surface, is overlain by sand cover for some 500 meters to the west before lateritic soils are again present suggesting possible continuation of the mineralized trend further to the west. Landsat imagery clearly shows areas of laterite and lateritic soil over the area. Based on the recent soil geochemistry results, follow up specific soil sampling is planned across the interpolated trend of gold mineralization to both the west and east of the artisanal workings covering a total strike length of 3.5 kilometers.
Conventional soil sampling is planned across areas of lateritic soil cover. Initially a RAB program is recommended to test the intervening areas covered by dark gray to black, clay rich soil. However, prior to embarking on such a program, an orientation survey using enzyme geochemistry is recommended as a trial study over a portion of the area to be sampled. Should results be positive further sampling incorporating this geochemical method will continue to be used to outline a possible gold anomaly.
Follow-up investigation using possibly both methods of soil sampling will be undertaken across a number of ground magnetic targets in order to prioritize targets for later testing by RAB drilling.
Reverse Circulation infill drilling is recommended on 40 meter spaced N-S sections across the artisanal site in order to undertake a resource calculation. Furthermore, part of the program will also focus on testing the soil anomaly along strike.
Handeni Gold Project
The Handeni Project, comprising of PL7148/2011 and covering a total area of 12.03 square kilometers, is located approximately 240 kilometers by road north-west of Dar es Salaam and some 30 kilometers south of Handeni town within the Handeni District (Map 15).
Map 15: Location map of the Handeni Project showing PL7148/2011 in red.
Exploration
No exploration was undertaken on the Handeni Project during the year from 31st March 2013 to 31st March 2014. A brief summary of the status of proposed future exploration of PL7148/2011 is given:
Future exploration
An infill soil sampling program on 100 meter x 25 meter grid is planned across the Mkulima Hill (188 samples) in order to better define the apparent gold anomalies prior to commencing a trenching program across the main anomalous zones. Should a trenching program be warranted, further soil sampling on 100 meter x 50 meter grid is proposed around the hill on 200 meter x 50 meter grid (623 samples) to increase the area of investigation and strike extent of the gold anomalies.
Mineral Properties
Uranium Projects
The Company has relinquished all Prospecting Licenses for Uranium, due to a downturn in global uranium exploration activities.
ITEM 3.