ITEM 2. DESCRIPTION OF PROPERTY
Portage Claims
Portage is the registered and beneficial owner of a 100% interest in the Portage Claims, located in Yukon, Canada.
Beneficial ownership of the Portage Claims confers the rights to the minerals on the Portage Claims except for ‘placer minerals’ (being minerals found in loose gravel or sand and typically located in creeks, steams or rivers) or coal. We do not own the land itself since it is held in the name of the “Crown”, i.e. the Province of Yukon. We do not have the right to harvest any timber on the Portage Claims.
The claim name, grant number, expiry date, mining district and recorded owner of the Portage Claims is as follows:
Claim Name
Grant Numbers
Expiry Date
Mining District
Owner
ROK 1 to 20
YC45186 to YC4502 incl.
Dec. 13, 2008
MO82L
Portage Resources Inc.
The Portage Claims cover an area of approximately 418 hectares (approximately 1,033 acres).
To keep the claims in good standing, such that they do not expire on the date indicated in the preceding table, we must undertake exploration work on the Portage Claims before the expiry date, or pay cash of approximately $1,840 in lieu of doing exploration work, to the government of the Yukon. This is an annual obligation. Failure to do either, each year, will result in the Portage Claims reverting to the government of the Yukon.
The Portage Claims was selected for acquisition due to previously recorded exploration work and because the claims are not located in an environmentally sensitive region.
Additional information regarding the Portage Claims, as well as other mineral claims in the Yukon, can be found at the Yukon government websites including:
-
Yukon Minfile data available at: www.geology.gov.yk.ca
-
Mineral Titles information at: www.yukonminingrecorder.ca
-
Mineral Claim expiry and ownership data: www.gysde.gov.yk.ca
Location and Access
The Portage Claims are located approximately 25 kilometers (16 miles) east of Dawson City, Yukon, a town of approximately 2,000. Dawson City provides all necessary amenities and supplies including, fuel, helicopter services, hardware, prospecting services and drilling companies. Access to our claims is via road and exploration trails. No electrical power is required at this stage of exploration. Gas powered portable generators could supply any electrical power that might be required in the foreseeable future.
The topography and relief of the Portage Claims is fairly rugged. Most of the property is above the tree line. Vegetation on the property consists of black and western spruce, poplar, alder and willow in the valleys to ground cover consisting of moss, alpine plants and dwarf birch above 4,000 feet in elevation. An interior intercontinental climate, with moderate to low precipitation of approximately 16 inches per year annually and warm short summers and long cold winters, typify the area. Permafrost is discontinuous and sporadically present on the steeper north and east facing slopes and low marshy-forested areas. The exploration season on our claims is limited to mid- June through late September. During these months the ground is typically free of snow cover with long daylight hours (up to 22 hours per day).
Property Geology
The Portage Claims are situated in the southern Dawson and northern Stewart map areas, southwest of the Mesozoic Tintina fault. Metamorphosed rocks of Paleozoic Yukon Tanana Terrain (“YTT”) mainly underlie the Portage Claims. YTT consists of several units including massive and sheared ultramafic unit, quartz-muscovite (chlorite) schist of Klondike Schist, mainly metasedimentary rocks of the Nasina Series, and coarse grained metaintrusive quartzofeldspathic rocks of the Pelly Gneiss. Several generations of Mesozoic and Tertiary intrusive rocks intruded the YTT rocks. The immediate area of the property is underlain by mainly gray to black graphitic quartzite with abundant fine- grained pyrite and green quartz muscovite (-biotite) schist of Nasina Series. These units are intruded and overlain by Early Tertiary massive quartz-feldspar porphyry intrusions; felsic brecciated lithic tuffs and felsic volcanic breccias. White to cream banded quartz carbonate veins also cut this unit. Nasina Series units are in thrust fault contact with ultramafic rocks of Permian to the east and west where the ultramafic units are thrust over the Nasina Series units. These ultimafic units are variably weathered, brecciated and silicified. In the southwest, the Permian quartz-muscovite schists of Klondike Schist are thrusted over the Nasina Series unit. Steeply dipping reverse faults are abundant throughout the area.
The Portage Claims are largely overburden covered with < 1% actual outcrop; mostly found in road cuts and trenches. The Portage Claims are underlain primarily by Quaternary overburden, Klondike Schist, which is intruded by the Teritary Quarz feldspar porphyry. The ultramafic rocks on the property are localized along shallow northeast dipping thrust faults. They generally have a very high magnetic signature. There are no mapped outcrops of ultramafic rocks known on the Portage Claims.
The area is prospective for uranium and tin as well as gold-quartz veins (Motherlode style) mineral deposits. Although areas of altered ultramafic rocks are not currently mapped on the Portage Claims there could still be remnant scatters about the property and would be prospective for gold quartz veins. The quartz feldspar intrusion in the center of the property may be a target for epithermal or intrusive hosted gold mineralization
Previous Exploration
The Portage Claims have seen very limited historical exploration. The area now covered by the Portage Claims, together with a much larger area, was formerly covered by the now lapsed ‘Surprise claims’ owned by the ‘Ukon Joint Venture’ (Chevron Canada Ltd. and Kerr Addison Mines Ltd.) who conducted geological mapping, water, stream sediment and soil geochemical surveys, ground radiometrics and magnetometer surveys, soil radon gas surveys, trenching diamond drilling and down hole radiometric surveys. However, most of this work was completed well south of the Portage Claims. Work undertaken, on the area now covered by the Portage Claims, by the Ukon Joint Venture in 1978-80 consisted of limited soil, silt stream and water sampling and geochemical analyses for uranium, and gold geochemical sampling and radiometric surveys.
We have not yet undertaken any work on the Portage Claims.
There is no known mineralization on the Portage Claims.
Proposed Exploration Work - Plan of Operation
Our operating plan summarized below is based upon our ability to raise additional capital. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis or Plan of Operations”, page 17.
We have no arrangements to raise this additional capital at the present time. Failure to raise this cash will force us to abandon our planned exploration work, cease operations and go out of business which could result in the loss of any funds invested in our shares of common stock.
R. Allan Doherty, P. Geo., authored the "Technical Report on the Alki Creek Property, Klondike Area, Yukon” dated March 23, 2007 (the “Doherty Report”), in which he recommended a phased exploration program to properly evaluate the potential of the claims. We must conduct exploration to determine what minerals exist on our property and whether they can be economically extracted and profitably processed. Subject to having funds sufficient to do so, we plan to proceed with exploration of the Portage Claims, in the manner recommended in the Doherty Report, to determine the potential for discovering commercially exploitable deposits of gold and/or uranium.
We do not have any ores or reserves whatsoever at this time on the Portage Claims. Our planned Phase I work is exploratory in nature.
Mr. Doherty is, and has since 1993 been, a registered Professional Geologist in good standing in the Association of Professional Engineers and Geoscientists of the Province of British Columbia. He is a graduate of the University of New Brunswick, with a degree in geology (Hons., B. Sc.,1977). Thereafter he attended graduate school at Memorial University of Newfoundland, and has been involved in geological mapping and mineral exploration, primarily in the Yukon, continuously since 1980.
The Doherty Report concludes that primarily Tertiary quartz feldspar porphyry and Klondike schist underlie the Portage Claims. While no mapped outcrops of ultramafics known on the Portage Claim, exposures are very poor and remnants of the ultramafic assemblage may well be located. There has been very limited geochemical sampling or exploration work on the Portage Claims and only explored target for motherlode style gold-quartz veins associated with carbonatized ultramafic rocks and the for uranium and tin associated with the underlying Tertiaty quartz-feldspar porphyry. In summary, the Portage Claims represent an attractive target for uranium mineralization hosted in a fluorite bearing quartz porphyry intrusion and also for gold quartz vein mineralization associated with Permiam ophiolite assemblage.
The Doherty Report recommends a three-phase exploration program to properly evaluate the potential of the claims. We anticipate, based on the budgets set forth in the Doherty Report, that Phase I work will cost $9,200.
Assuming the results of the Phase I work identify suitable targets, thus indicating further exploration of the Portage Claims is warranted, we intend, provided we are able to raise funds to do so, undertake a Phase II trenching program at a cost of a further $27,600. Assuming the results of a Phase II trenching program identify suitable drill targets a Phase III drilling program could be undertaken. Once again, our ability to conduct Phase III work is subject to our ability to raise funds to do so.
The cost estimates for the our Phase I work program, detailed below, are based on Mr. Doherty’s recommendations and reflect local costs for this type of work:
Phase I - Budget
Mapping prospecting and rock sampling. The cost estimate of $9,200 ($10,000Cdn.) consists of:
Cdn.
U.S.
Senior Geologist and Assistant, 2 days @ $800/day
$ 1,600
$ 1,472
Transportation and accommodation
Soil sampling, 100 x 20 m GSP grid (200 soil samples)6 man days @ $300/man/day
1,800
1,656
Analyses, 200 @ $25 each plus shipping
5,000
4,600
Report costs
Subtotal
$ 10,000
$ 9,200
Provided we have the funds available to do so, we intend to complete Phase I work at some point during the late fall of 2008. Precise timing of the Phase I work will depend upon availability of funds as well as weather conditions and the melt of the snow pack on the claims.
Phase I work will include establishing a grid and the creation of maps showing the location of all roads in and near the perimeter of the Portage Claims. The laying out of a grid and line cutting involves the physical cutting of the underbrush and overlay to establish an actual grid on the ground whereby items can be related one to another more easily and with greater accuracy. When we map, we essentially generate a drawing of the physical features of the land we are interested in as well as a depiction of what may have been found in relation to the boundaries of the property. So we will actually draw a scale map of the area and make notes on it as to the location where anything was found that was of interest or not. In the process we will also identify any showings which appear to warrant sampling, i.e. any rock formations that appear to warrant our taking soil and rock samples from the claims to a laboratory where a determination of the elemental make up of the sample and the exact concentrations of gold and/or uranium and other indicator minerals can be made. Based on the Doherty Report we expect the costs of Phase I work to total approximately $9,200.
Should Phase I results warrant further work and should we be able to raise additional funds (through the issuance of additional shares, debt securities or loan advances from our directors) to undertake additional work on the Portage Claims, in Phase II (at an estimated cost of a further $27,600) we expect to undertake a trenching and sampling program rock and geochemical sampling as mentioned above. This work would be designed to compare the relative concentrations of uranium and/or gold and other indicator minerals in samples so the results from different samples can be compared in a more precise manner and plotted on a map to evaluate their significance. If an apparent mineralized zone(s) is identified and narrowed down to a specific area by the Phase I & II work, we expect (again subject to our ability to raise additional funds to do so, through the issuance of additional treasury shares, debt securities or loan advances from our directors) to diamond drill selected targets to test the apparent mineralized zones at an estimated cost of a further $55,200. Diamond drilled samples would be tested, by assay for gold, uranium and other minerals; however, our primary focus is the search for gold and uranium.
The work is phased in such a manner as to allow decision points to ensure that future work has a value and will provide better or additional information as to the viability of the claim. By utilizing a multi-phase work program, at the end of each phase a decision can be made as to whether the phase has provided the necessary information to increase the viability of the project. If the information obtained as a result of any phase indicates that there is no increased probability of finding an economically viable deposit at the end of the project, a determination would be made that the work should cease at that point.
Phase I, Phase II and III work cannot be undertaken unless and until Portage is able to raise additional capital as our existing working capital is largely committed to administrative expenses of the Company. Consequently, if we are unable to raise additional capital we may not be able to undertake any work on the Portage Claims. In addition, provided we are able to finance Phase I exploration work and the results of Phase I exploration work prove encouraging, there is no assurance we will be able to raise the capital necessary to conduct the further exploration work contemplated by Phases II and III. The earliest we expect to carry out Phase II work, should we be able to raise the capital to finance Phase II, is the summer of 2008. Furthermore, even if funding is available, Phase III work will only be undertaken if the results of Phase I and II are successful in identifying target zones of gold and/or uranium mineralization deemed worthy, by our geologist, of drilling to determine if a gold and/or uranium deposit may exist. Should the Phase I work prove unsuccessful in identifying such drill targets, the Company will likely abandon the Portage Claims and we may have to go out of business.
Subject to having funds available to do so, we intend to complete Phase I exploration work on the Portage Claims, our sole property. Since the Portage Claims are located at very high northerly latitude and are subject to cold winters with snowfall accumulations, Phase I work can not be undertaken until late in the summer of 2008 or in the late spring of 2009.
Particularly since we have a limited operating history, no reserves and no revenue, our ability to raise additional funds might be limited. If we are unable to raise the necessary funds, we would be required to suspend Portage's operations and liquidate our company.
There are no permanent facilities, plants, buildings or equipment on the Portage Claims.
Competitive Factors
The mining industry is highly fragmented. We are competing with many other exploration companies looking for gold, uranium and other minerals. We are among the smallest exploration companies in existence and are an infinitely small participant in the mining business, which is the cornerstone of the founding and early stage development of the mining industry. While we generally compete with other exploration companies, there is no competition for the exploration or removal of minerals from our claims. Readily available markets exist for the sale of gold and uranium. Therefore, we will likely be able to sell any gold or uranium that we are able to recover, in the event commercial quantities are discovered on the Portage Claims. There is no known ore body on the Portage Claims.
Governing Laws
The mining industry in Canada operates under both federal and provincial or territorial legislation governing the exploration, development, production and decommissioning of mines. Such legislation relates to such matters as the method of acquisition and ownership of mining rights, labor, health and safety standards, royalties, mining and income taxes, exports, reclamation and rehabilitation of mines, and other matters. The mining industry in Canada is also subject to legislation at both the federal and provincial or territorial levels concerning the protection of the environment. Legislation imposes high standards on the mining industry to reduce or eliminate the effects of waste generated by extraction and processing operations and subsequently deposited on the ground or emitted into the air or water. The design of mines and mills, and the conduct of extraction and processing operations, are subject to regulatory restrictions. The exploration, construction, development and operation of a mine, mill or refinery require compliance with environmental legislation and regulatory reviews, and the obtaining of land use and other permits, water licenses and similar authorizations from various governmental agencies. Legislation is in place for lands under federal jurisdiction or located in certain provinces and territories that provides for the preparation of costly environmental impact assessment reports prior to the commencement of any mining operations. These reports require a detailed technical and scientific assessment as well as a prediction of the impact on the environment of proposed mine exploration and development.
Failure to comply with the requirements of environmental legislation may result in regulatory or court orders being issued that could result in the cessation, curtailment or modification of operations or that could require the installation of additional facilities or equipment to protect the environment. Violators may be required to compensate those suffering loss or damage by reason of mining activities and the violators, including our officers and directors, may be fined or, in some cases, imprisoned if convicted of an offense under such legislation. Provincial and territorial mining legislation establishes requirements for the decommissioning, reclamation and rehabilitation of mining properties that are closed. Closure requirements relate to the protection and restoration of the environment and the protection of public safety. Some former mining properties must be managed for a long time following closure in order to fulfill regulatory closure requirements. The cost of closure of existing and former mining properties and, in particular, the cost of long-term management of open or closed mining properties can be substantial.
Legislation relevant to our proposed mineral exploration is governed by the Yukon Quartz Mining Act and regulations made thereunder. This legislation sets forth rules for: locating claims, posting claims, working claims and reporting work performed. We will be required to obtain permits from the Yukon government before conducting significant exploration on the Portage Claims. With respect to the legislation, rules and regulations referred to above, we believe that we are presently in compliance in all material respects with applicable legislation, rules and regulations.
The Company does not foresee having to expend material amounts in order to comply with environmental laws during the exploration phase of its operations. The Company is obligated to restore surface disturbances created by exploration. These restoration efforts typically involve the back filing of trenches, pits, or other excavations created for purposes of exploration.
Underground exploration, which the Company contemplates in the future, will require additional cost related to the storage of excavated material. Until the Company knows the amount of material it will have to store, it cannot estimate this cost. There will be material costs of environmental compliance if the Company develops a mine in the future. However, the Company cannot reasonably estimate that environmental compliance cost at this time.
It is not possible to estimate the cost of meeting the rules and regulations for a mining operation at this time. Those costs will only be determined when a mine plan and the required studies are completed to apply for a mining permit.
Employees
Initially, we intend to use the services of subcontractors for manual labor exploration work on our claim and an engineer or geologist to manage the exploration program. At present, we have no employees as such although each of our officers and directors devotes a portion of his time to the affairs of the Company. None of our officers and directors has an employment agreement with us. We presently do not have pension, health, annuity, insurance, profit sharing or similar benefit plans; however, we may adopt such plans in the future. There are presently no personal benefits available to any employee.
As indicated above we will hire subcontractors on an as needed basis. We have not entered into negotations or contracts with any of potential subcontractors. We do not
intend to initiate negotiate or hire anyone until we are nare the time of commencement of our planned exporation activities.
ITEM 3.