ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
Corporate Offices
Our corporate offices are at Av. Benavides 441, Apto 101B, Miraflores, Lima 18, Peru. Our telephone number is 011-511-733-5100. Our corporate e-mail address is info@portageresourcesinc.com and our website address is www.portageresourcesinc.com.
Mineral Properties
Cautionary Note to United States Investors
We caution U.S. investors that we may have materials in the public domain that may use terms that are recognized and permitted under Canadian regulations or regulations in other jurisdictions, however the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (“S.E.C.”) may not recognize such terms. We have detailed below the differences in the SEC regulations as compared to the Canadian Regulations under National Instrument NI 43-101, which we may refer to below in some of our property disclosures.
S.E.C. Industry Code
National Instrument 43-101 (“NI 43-101”)
Reserve: That part of a mineral deposit which could be economically and legally extracted or produced at the time of the reserve determination. The United States Securities and Exchange Commission requires a final or full Feasibility Study to be completed in order to support either Proven or Probably Reserves and does not recognize other classifications of mineralized deposits. Note that for industrial mineral properties, in addition to the Feasibility Study, “sales” contracts or actual sales may be required in order to prove the project’s commerciality and reserve status.
Mineral Reserve: The economically mineable part of a Measured or Indicated Mineral Resource demonstrated by at least a Preliminary Feasibility study. This study must include adequate information on mining, processing, metallurgical, economic and other relevant factors that demonstrate, at the time of reporting, that economic extraction can be justified.
Proven Reserves: Reserves for which a quantity is computed from dimensions revealed in outcrops, trenches, workings or drill holes, grade and/or quality are computed from the results of detailed sampling; the sites for inspection, sampling and measurement are spaced so closely and the geologic character is so well defined that size, share, depth and mineral content of reserves are well established.
Proven Mineral Reserve: The economically mineable part of a Measured Mineral Resource demonstrated by at least a Preliminary Feasibility study. This study must include adequate information on mining, processing, metallurgical, economic and other relevant factors that demonstrate, at the time of reporting, that economic extraction is justified.
Probable Reserves: Reserves for which quantity and grade and/or quality are computed from information similar to that used for proven reserves, but the sites for inspection, sampling and measurement are farther apart or are otherwise less adequately spaced. The degree of assurance, although lower than that for proven reserves, is high enough to assume continuity between points of observation.
Probable Mineral Reserve: The economically mineable part of an indicated, and in some circumstances, a Measured Mineral Resource, demonstrated by at least a Preliminary Feasibility Study. This study must include adequate information on mining, processing, metallurgical, and economic and other relevant factors that demonstrate, at the time of reporting, that economic extraction can be justified.
As of the date of filing of this annual report, the Company holds the following mineral properties through its wholly owned subsidiaries that were incorporated subsequent to the fiscal year ended May 31, 2011:
Wuakakuy Claims, Putina District, Department of Puno, southeastern Peru (“Wuakakuy”)
Claims
On June 25, 2011, the Company’s wholly owned subsidiary, Portage Resources Peru S.A. (“Portage Peru”) entered into an assignment agreement with Airon Peru S.A.C. (“Airon”) whereby Airon assigned all rights and interest in a joint venture (the “Joint Venture”) to exploration of the mining concession Wuakakuy to Portage Peru. Under the terms of the assignment agreement Portage Peru agreed to explore the concession pursuant to the terms of the Joint Venture. The Company has agreed to spend a minimum of $150,000 on drilling and /or exploration costs and to drill a minimum of 1000 meters within 18 months from the date of the agreement. Under the assigned Joint Venture Agreement Portage will assume Airon’s rights to acquire a 55% interest in the mining concession Wuakakuy by assumption of the obligations of the assignor. As consideration for the assignment, we issued a total of 200,000,000 common shares of the Company to Airon.
Should the Company not meet its obligations under the agreement then the rights to the Joint Venture will revert back to Airon. In consideration for the assignment, we issued a total of 200,000,000 common shares of the Company to Airon and Airon is to receive a retainer of $2,000 per month for consulting services.
The Wuakakuy Property is comprised of two mining concessions named "Wuakakuy " and "Wuakakuy Uno" totaling 600 hectares. Wuakakuy and Wuakakuy Uno overlie two mining concessions that have prior position: Cecilia No. 5, of 33.75 Has, and Cecilia No. 6, of 24.28 Has. These prior claims total 83 Has. that reduces the combined available area of Wuakakuy and Wuakakuy Uno area to 517 Has.
Wuakakuy: Concession 01-0062506 400 ha
Wuakukuy Uno: Concession 01-0165106 200 ha
The Wuakakuy and Wuakakuy Uno concessions fees are paid to date and the concessions are currently in good standing. The boundaries of the Property are defined by UTM coordinates on all documents and maps in the Ministry of Energy and Mines. The Property has not been legally surveyed.
The Property surrounds the Mina Cecilia on the north and east side of the mine workings and campo The Mina Cecilia mine operated at 450 tonnes per day for several decades until 1984, producing Ag-Pb-Zn-Cu from mantos in host carbonates. A portion of the tailings pile from the Mina Cecilia extends approximately 350m into the Wuakakuy concession from the boundary with Cecilia No. 6. These tailings represent the far end of the main tailings pile, consisting of very fine grain size and with little metal content other than elevated values of Pb and Zn. An environmental assessment of the tailings on the Wuakakuy concession has not yet been made. No other mines in the district are near the Property boundaries.
Exploration Permit
In Peru, a tiered system imposes three levels of permitting requirements for exploration activities. Environmental impact studies and archeological surveys must be filed for category B and C level exploration activities:
Category A: Exploration activities with minimal or no surface alterations, such as geological studies, topography, hand trenching and sampling.
Category B: Exploration activities that result in discharges, 01' waste disposal, that could impact an area not exceeding 10 hectares with fewer than 20 drill platforms. The company must file a description of planned activities, mitigation practices, and reclamation plans; and
Category C: Exploration activities that result in discharges or waste disposal that could impact an area exceeding 10 hectares, or that require more than 20 drill platforms, 01' develop more than 50 meters of tunnels.
No exploration permits have yet been applied for.
Location and Access
The claim block is a 600 hectare project, situated in Putina District, Department of Puno, southeastern Peru, 116 kilometers north-northeast of the city of Juliaca. The Property is accessible via paved road heading northeast from the city of Juliaca to the town of Azangaro, then along gravel roads by way of the town of Munani on to the access road to Mina Cecilia located immediately south of the Property. Total travel time is approximately 4.0 hours. The city of Juliaca can be reached via paved highway from Lima, travel distance of 1,400 km, or by commercial airlines with daily service between Lima-Arequipa-Juliaca. Accommodation is available in Crucero, 25 km northwest of the project area.
The terrain on the Property is of moderate relief averaging 4,600 m in elevation above sea level. Ground cover consists of various short grasses and small brush near drainages.
Very limited supplies are available in the village of Picotani, 16 km by road southeast of the Property. Fuel and groceries are best brought in from Juliaca. Mini-busses provide once-daily public transport for the locals from Picotani to other population centers in the region: Azangaro (60 km), Crucero (50 km), Sandía (90 km). Lodging for the field crews can be arranged for in Picotani.
Annual temperatures in this area of Puno range from 25°C to -20°C, with periods of extreme precipitation from December to April. Dense fog is common during the rainy season. The optimum field season is the dry season from May through November when skies are generally clear during the day although night time temperatures fall below freezing. Weather conditions are rarely severe enough to curtail exploration activities for more than a period of days.
A power line connects the town of Picotani with Azangaro. At the nearest point this line is approximate1y 12 km from the Property.
The Rio Cecilia flows through the Property with a minimum flow rate of approximately 0.30 cubic m/s in the dry season. Small intermittent creeks flow into the Rio Cecilia from the south end of the Property. Several small lakes lie within a 10 km radius of the Property.
There is ample surface area for mining operations, processing plant, dumps, etc. on the property due to its low to moderate topographic relief. The surface rights are controlled by the local community; the few residents who live in the immediate area welcome mining activity with its promise of employment.
Regional & Property Geology
Regional Lithology
The Project is situated within a sequence of continental to marine, dominantly carbonate litho-types that range from Permian to late Cretaceous ages.
The Lower Permian Copacabana Group is represented locally by inter-bedded massive micritic limestone, feldspathic sandstone and red to purple siltstone. The Copacabana hosts several base metal occurrences in the region, Unconformably, overlying the Copacabana is the Chupa Formation of Upper Permian age. The Chupa is quite distinctive in the region as it is a very coarse, reddish conglomerate with angular to sub-rounded clasts up to 50 cm in diamerter derived from the underlying sedimentary units. UnconformabJy overlying the Chupa conglomerate and locally overlying the Copacabana Group is the Mitu Group of Upper Permian age consisting of continental red beds (arkosic sandstone units of varying grain size),
Cretaceous sediments in the region are represented by the Huancane Formation quartz arenite and the Moho Group, which consists of a micritic limestone unit (Ayavaca Fm.) and quartz arenite, and red beds.
Unconformably overlying the Cretaceous sediments are Tertiary-age volcanics and volcanic sediments: the rhyolitic volcanics of the Miocene Picontani Formation and polymictic conglomerate and coarse c1asitic sediments of the Pliocene Arco Aja Formation.
Regional Structure
Beate and Loayza (l999) describe the structure of the area as a complex compressive regime with the main structural trend to the NW. Accommodating trans-tensional shears to the compression are oriented orthogonally and produce NE-SW trending structures (INGMMET, 1982). Both NW and NE structures are reported to control epigenetic mineralization in the host limestone and are suggested as a guide for future exploration to find economically significant mineralization (Beate and Loayza, 1999).
The quartz-diorite source of the Tertiary volcanics may have been emplaced along the NE-SW trans-tensional shears and/or the intersections of the shears and compressional structures. These intrusions may have provided the magmatic-hydrotherrnal source for some of the Zn-Pb-Ag mineralization in the region.
Property Geology
The Project is underlain primarily by the Copacabana Formation -massive micritic limestone, feldspathic sandstone and red to purple siltstone. The limestone and sandstone of this unit host the stratabound polymetallic mineralization in the neighboring Mina Cecilia.
Overlying the Copacabana, and in fault contact locally, are the basal units of the Mitu Group consisting of quartzite and coarse polymictic conglomerate. A prominent normal fault crosses the Wuakakuy concession juxtaposing the carbonate units of the Copacabana against sandstone and quartzite of the Mitu Group.
Bedding of the sedimentary units dips 20 -30° N and strikes WNW to E-W following a regional trend.
Deposit Types
The mineralization found on the Project is stratabound, or manto replacernent, Ag-Zn-Pb. Observed characteristics of this mineralization include high Ag values from argentiferous galena, local epigenetic veins and spatial association with intrusive rocks. Manto replacement and vein type deposits are mainly distally intrusion related, emplaced at high temperatures that range from 230°C to 370°C, are often limestone hosted, are often structurally controlled, and contain mineralization of Ag-Pb-Zn and in some cases contain gold. The spatial relationship of intrusive bodies and mantos along with paleotemperature is held as evidence for a magmatic-hydrothermal origin.
Manto-associated intrusive rocks include granite, quartz monzonite, and intermediate to felsic hypabyssal lithologies. Volcanic rocks associated with the intrusives may overly the limestone locally.
Alteration of limestone wall rocks íncludes dolomitization and silicificatíon. Alteration of argillite wall rocks or igneous rocks ineludes argillic, alteration and chloritization. Gangue minerals include quartz, barite, and gypsum.
Oxide and supergene effects in these deposits develop cassiterite, cerussite, smithsonite, Fe-oxides, Mn-oxides, and Cu and Fe carbonates. Silver mantos may be enriched at the interface between primary and secondary mineralization.
Exploration
Regional comprehensive geological and structural studies were carried out by the Geological Survey Mission -BGS (1993), and by the Instituto Geologico -Minero Metallurgico (INGEMMET) through 1972 to 1996. Beate and Loayza (1999) note that many mines and prospects in the area have been subject to geological and economic reports by the Banco Minero del Peru and other government agencies in the 1950' to the 1980's.
Minera Altiplano conducted a district-wide exploration program that included the Property. A report from an Altiplano geologist describes zones of prospective mineralization found on the Property that Altiplano sampled along a series of tractor cuts in the side of a hill in the Bonanza Cuerpo zone; sample results from that work are not available.
In 2008, as part of a NI43-101 report on the property, twelve samples were submitted for analysis by Camino Ventures. Twelve rock chip samples were taken from outcrop by the author of the report on the Wuakakuy concession. Five samples were taken from gossan outcrop in the Bonanza Cuerpo to test surface values in this zone at spacing varying from 50 -100 meters. The samples were taken across a square panel of outcrop measuring 3 x 3 meters, perpendicular to apparent bedding, ie., on near-vertical faces of outcrop. Sample WK1106 was from a selection of the most intense gossan-barite-Mn oxide alteration found in a 10 meter area of outcrop. Sample WK-09 was from a sandstone breccia outcrop with abundant limonite (goethite) and little gossan that may mark the eastward extension of the Bonanza Cuerpo.
Samples were also collected from gossan structure outcrops in the NE Manto zone and from the mineralized fault breccia to the east of the access road across the creek from the NE Manto. These samples were also taken as panel samples, usually 3 x 3 meters, in a plane perpendicular to bedding or fault structure
The primary exploration target on the Project is the Bonanza Cuerpo, a zone measuring 100 x 250 meters defined by abundant gossan outcrop. A sandstone breccia outcrop further east along strike with anomalous Ag-Pb-Zn rock chip values suggests that this zone may extend more than 400m in strike length and is open on either end. Thickness of the Bonanza Cuerpo is estimated at 75 meters.
The surface expression of the Bonanza Cuerpo gossan suggests that it is a concordant body within the surrounding host carbonates of the Copacabanca Group dipping 25° N and striking N700W. Samples from the gossan taken by the author gave highly anomalous values of Pb-Zn (0.15 -0.99% Pb; 0.12 -2.4% Zn) with locally anomalous Ag (maximum of 7.8 oz/t Ag). These values from gossan are highly prospective indicators for a massive sulfide body at depth.
In the Mina Cecilia, adjacent to the Property, galena and sphalerite mineralization occurs in irregular veinlets and as sulfide handing in limestone and calcareous sandstone, also of the Copacabana Group.
The Bonanza Cuerpo lies 700 meters north of one of the main access tunnels of the Mina Cecilia and appears to occupy the same stratigraphic horizon as the mineralization of the Mina Cecilia.
The second target is a smaller manto exposed 1,300 meters NE of the Bonaza Cuerpo in calcareous sandstone of the Mitu Group, here called the NE Manto. Full width of the manto is not exposed in trench cuts. A channel chip sample was taken across 1 m of exposed manto that returned 5 oz/t Ag, 1.3% Pb, 1.9% Zn. A sample from a gossan outcrop 200m north of this trench cut exposure ran 0.3 oz/t Ag, 4.8%Zn and no Pb.
Across the valley to the east of the NE Manto is a mineralized fault breccia on the contact between the Copacabana limestone and conglomerate of the Mitu Group, The breccia structures is 2 -5 meters in width and runs over 400 meters in strike length, trending NI5°E. Two chip samples from this breccia returned anomalous values of Ag-Pb-Zn; high values were 4.5 oz/t Ag, 0.30%Pb, and 0.27% Zn.
No mineral production has been reported from the Property, The Property has not been drill tested. No mineral resource estimate can be made for the property due to insufficient sampling data.
Substantial additional exploration is required in order to determine the extent, if any, of economically viable reserves. At present, the Company will be required to raise additional funds in order to complete this exploration, for which there is no assurance it will be able to do so.
Linderos Claims, Tabaconas District, San Ignacio Province, Department of Cajamarca, Peru
Claims
On June 27, 2011, Portage Minerals Peru S.A. (“Portage Minerals”) entered into a purchase and sale agreement to acquire all rights, title and interest to the Linderos 4 mining concession in Tabaconas District, San Ignacio Province, Department of Cajamarca, Peru with Nilam Resources Inc. (“Nilam”). As consideration for the acquisition of the mining concession, the Company issued a total of 100,000,000 common shares of the Company to Nilam.
On July 4, 2011, Portage Minerals entered into a purchase and sale agreement to acquire all rights, title and interest to the Linderos 5 mining concession in Tabaconas District, San Ignacio Province, Department of Cajamarca, Peru with Nilam. As consideration for the acquisition of the mining concession, the Company issued a total of 80,000,000 common shares of the Company to Nilam.
Name: Linderos 4
Code: 01-0414408
Size: 500 ha
Name: Linderos 5
Code: 01-0414508
Size: 300 ha
Exploration
No mineral production has been reported from the Property, The Property has not been drill tested. No mineral resource estimate can be made for the property due to insufficient sampling data. Substantial additional exploration is required in order to determine the extent, if any, of economically viable reserves. At present, the Company will be required to raise additional funds in order to complete this exploration, and complete required payments, for which there is no assurance it will be able to do so.
Cordillera Negra Claims, , Tabaconas District, San Ignacio Province, Department of Cajamarca, Peru
Claims
On July 22, 2011, Portage Peru entered into agreements to acquire certain mineral concessions known as Cordillera Negra located approximately 13 kms from the great Antamina Mine, consisting of two properties with a total of 1,200 hectares. The agreement between the parties calls for a payment of $10,000 by September 15, 2011, with total additional payments of US$1,535,000 over the next 42 months. Following the initial payment, the Company will pay $35,000 to obtain a 43-101 geological report within five months of receiving the public deed, and thereafter, if the report is determined to be favorable, the Company will remit payments as follows: US$ 250,000 after thirty (30) months of receipt of the public deed; US$ 250,000 after thirty six (36) month of receipt of the public deed; US$ 1,000,000 after forty two (42) month of receipt of the public deed.
Name: Cordillera Negra EC
Claim: 01-02499-03
Size: 1,000 ha
Name: Cordillera Negra 2 EC
Claim: 01-02952-03
Size: 200 ha
Location and Access
Located in the district of San Marcos, Ancash Region, approximately 200 kilometers from the city of Huaraz, at an average altitude of 4,300 meters above sea level.
Exploration
No mineral production has been reported from the Property, The Property has not been drill tested. No mineral resource estimate can be made for the property due to insufficient sampling data. Substantial additional exploration is required in order to determine the extent, if any, of economically viable reserves. At present, the Company will be required to raise additional funds in order to complete this exploration, and complete required payments, for which there is no assurance it will be able to do so.
ITEM 3.