Item 2. Properties.
Our Purchase Agreements with ASARCO and Kennecott. Revett Silver acquired Troy and Rock Creek from ASARCO and Kennecott in October 1999 and February 2000, respectively. Revett Silver holds Troy through its Genesis, Inc. wholly-owned subsidiary and it holds Rock Creek through its wholly-owned RC Resources Inc. subsidiary. The Troy and Rock Creek ore bodies and claims had been owned by Kennecott and leased to ASARCO on terms that gave Kennecott a 25 percent net profits interest in the projects. The mine and plant improvements were owned by ASARCO.
The ASARCO Purchase Agreement. Revett Silver acquired ASARCO’s Troy and Rock Creek assets in exchange for the following: the assumption of reclamation liabilities relating primarily to Troy; a cash payment of $1,000,000; the execution and delivery of a $10,000,000 promissory note; one million stock purchase warrants exercisable at $4.00 per share through December 31, 2003; a promise to issue ASARCO two million shares of common stock on or before October 14, 2001; and a guarantee that the aggregate price of the two million shares would be at least $9,000,000 as of the date the shares were issued, failing which we would pay ASARCO the difference in cash or by giving it additional shares of our stock.
Revett Silver and ASARCO amended their agreement in July 2002 to allow for the immediate issue of the two million shares, to extinguish the share price guarantee, and to replace the note with a production debt obligation. The shares were issued in July 2002. The principal amount of the cash payment obligation to ASARCO was $10,000,000, plus an adjustment amount determined by applying a four percent (4%) discount rate, so that principal was stated in “1999 dollars.” The obligation was payable in semi-annual installments over the life of Rock Creek, commencing in the second full year of commercial production from the project. Revett Silver was obligated to pay a minimum of $1,500,000 per year beginning in 2014 if it had not then commenced production at Rock Creek. In May 2004, Revett Silver and ASARCO again amended their agreement to terminate and cancel the production debt obligation in exchange for Revett Silver’s issuance of 3,000,000 additional shares of common stock to ASARCO.
The Kennecott Purchase Agreement. Revett Silver acquired Kennecott’s mineral property interests in the Troy mine and the Rock Creek project in February 2000, thereby eliminating Kennecott’s 25 percent net profits interest and giving Revett Silver complete ownership of the assets. Revett Silver gave Kennecott a $5,000,000 promissory note and 2,250,000 shares of its common stock as consideration for these mineral interests. As was the case with ASARCO, Revett Silver also guaranteed that Kennecott’s shares would have a certain value-in its case, $10,125,000-on or before October 14, 2001 and increasing annually through October 14, 2004, failing which it would pay Kennecott the difference in cash or in stock. Revett Silver and Kennecott amended their agreement February 2003 to eliminate the stock price guarantee. The amendment also gave Kennecott an option, exercisable the later of December 31, 2015 or one year after the Rock Creek Project achieves an 80 percent production rate, to exchange its 2,250,000 shares for a two percent net smelter return royalty from the sale of metals extracted from a defined portion of the project. Were Kennecott to elect to make the exchange, our obligation to pay the royalty would continue until it had received payments of $8,000,000, as adjusted for inflation. The promissory note given to Kennecott had an interest rate equal to one percent over the prime rate in effect on the last day of the preceding quarter, and was to have matured on February 21, 2008. Revett Minerals purchased the note from Kennecott on February 21, 2008.
Troy. The Troy mine is located in Lincoln County, Montana, approximately fifteen miles south of the town of Troy. ASARCO developed the mine and operated it from 1981 until April 1993, when low metals prices forced it to suspend production and put the mine on care and maintenance status. Prior to being shut down it was one of the largest silver mines in the United States and also a significant producer of copper. Revett Silver acquired the mining claims and improvements comprising Troy from ASARCO and Kennecott in 1999 and 2000, and reopened the mine and commenced commercial production in December 2004 at a cost of approximately $8.0 million.
The following information concerning Troy (other than the information concerning our historical operating results and resource and reserve estimates) is derived in substantial part from a technical report dated August 14, 2004, as amended as of January 27, 2005 prepared at the Company’s request by SRK Consulting (“SRK”) of Toronto, Ontario (the “Troy Report”). The Troy Report was authored by Ken Reipas and Dr. Jean-Francoise Couture, each of whom is a “qualified person” within the meaning of National Instrument 43-101 adopted by the Canadian provincial securities regulatory authorities.
Mining Claims. The Troy mining claims comprise 24 patented lode-mining claims and approximately 188 unpatented lode-mining claims, all of which are located on federal lands administered by the Forest Service, and all of which are in good standing. The Troy mine claims and operating permit area comprise an area of approximately 2,752 acres. The claims consist of the Ape 1 to 104 and 200, COG 73, 74 and 93 to 96, Daniel Lee 1 to 26 and 58, Beagle 1 to 98, Steboma 98 to 118, Harland G, Hazel, Slide, Morningstar and Slide Mine 1 and 3. Annual maintenance fees are $125 per unpatented claim, which are payable in cash or through demonstrated assessment work.
Physiography, Climate and Infrastructure. The Cabinet Mountains form a northwest-trending mountain range of rugged relief. Maximum relief in the project area is about 5,500 feet. The highest elevation in the area is Mount Vernon, with an elevation of 5,580 feet, and the lowest elevation is along Bull Lake and Lake Creek, where the elevation is approximately 2,370 feet. The area’s topography was modeled by the underlying rock types and structural features. Rocks in the area are relatively competent and resistant to erosion. The talus slopes and hogback ridges are usually formed by the more weather resistant quartzite and limestone rocks.
The major land-forming features were created by the Rocky Mountain uplift that was active approximately 60 million years ago, and were subsequently modified by shifts in the earth’s crust, alpine glaciation and alluvial deposits. Topography in the project area has been influenced by Pleistocene-age glaciation. In the northern part of the project area, Pleistocene alpine glaciers carved the landscape into a series of cirques, and horns characterized by nearly vertical cliffs, ledges, steep colluvial slopes, and talus fields. Pleistocene-age glaciation scoured some lower elevation areas, and created a veneer of glacial deposits. Glacial lake bed deposits, silt and clay accumulations approximately 1,000 feet in thickness were deposited in the low-elevation drainages.
The climate of the mine area is characterized by a combination of Pacific maritime and continental climates. The maritime influences are strongest in the winter when relatively warm, moist air from the Pacific Ocean is cooled as it is lifted over the mountains and mixes with colder Arctic air moving south. This results in snowfall with significant accumulations in the higher elevations. Continental influences are more prevalent in the summer with thundershowers during May and June followed by hot, dry weather into mid-September. Annual precipitation totals vary from about 30 inches along the Clark Fork River valley to about 80 inches at the highest elevations in the Cabinet Mountains. Temperatures in the area are moderate. During the summer months, minimum night-time temperatures are in the 50 to 60 degrees Fahrenheit range. Winter cold waves occur, but mild weather is more common. The long-term annual average temperature at the Trout Creek Ranger Station, which is in close proximity to the Troy mine, is about 45 degrees Fahrenheit. The warmest month, July, averages 65 degrees Fahrenheit and the coldest month, January, averages 24 degrees Fahrenheit.
Lincoln County is sparsely inhabited, with several rural communities. The local economy is based primarily on agriculture and tourism, and, to a lesser extent, logging and the production of wood products. Libby, the county seat, is located approximately 32 miles northeast of the Troy mine. The mine site is serviced by Montana Highway 56, a paved all-weather road connecting Highway 200 to Highway 2, and by an active railway line that parallels Highway 200 and Highway 2. The mine is connected to the local power grid.
The Troy mine has a complete supporting infrastructure consisting of a paved access road, office building, electrical supply and water supply, mine dry, a surface maintenance shop and warehouse, access adits to the mine for personnel and ore transport, a fleet of new and used mobile equipment, an underground crusher and conveyor system to surface, main ventilation fans, a processing plant, and a tailings storage facility. Copper concentrate from the mine is transported by truck to a rail storage facility in Libby and is then shipped by rail to a copper smelter.
History. The Cabinet Mountains area has undergone sporadic exploration and mining dating back to the discovery of placer gold along Libby Creek during the 1860s. Subsequent exploration during the 1880’s and 1890’s resulted in the discovery of numerous small mineral deposits which sustained very short-lived small operations. These operations did not result in any significant production.
Several small mineral occurrences were found during the 1920’s and 1930’s in the vicinity of the Troy mine area. A few short tunnels and underground workings were developed mostly on northwest-striking copper/silver/gold quartz veins associated with northwest-trending faults zones that are abundant in this region. These workings were limited in size and generated very little production. There are no other active mines within the area.
During the 1960’s through the early 1980’s three major copper-silver deposits-the Spar Lake (Troy), Rock Creek and Rock Lake (Montanore) deposits-and numerous smaller deposits were discovered within the Revett Formation inside a narrow belt extending from the Coeur d’Alene Mining District northward to the Kootenai River area.
Geological Setting. The geology of the general area is characterized by a thick sedimentary Proterozoic sequence comprising four major conformable groups: the Lower Belt Group, the Ravalli Group, the Middle Belt Carbonate Group and the Missoula Group. The Troy deposit is found within the Ravalli Group, which consists of the Revett, St. Regis, Empire and Helena formations.
These formations represent mature, clastic sandstones of varying thicknesses with the sulphide mineralization being stratabound and disseminated. Copper and silver mineralization occurs throughout the Revett Formation, which is more than 2,000 feet thick in places. However, “economic” concentrations occur within three distinct stratigraphically adjacent quartzite subunits, the Lower, Middle and Upper Quartzite subunits, located within the Upper Member of the Revett Formation.
The enveloping surface of the stratiform deposit measures approximately 7,500 feet long by 1,800 feet wide and is ranges between 30 to 60 feet thick. Each quartzite subunit delimits the top and bottom of individual mineralized zones. In the vicinity of the mine, the stratigraphy is generally flat with a shallow dip of four degrees.
Mineralization. Three main mineralization events are present within the Belt Supergroup in the Troy area. Base and precious metals vein mineralization related to Cretaceous to early Tertiary felsic plutons is found in intrusions in highly folded and faulted rocks in the central and northern portions of the Cabinet Mountains, and vein mineralization related to Precambrian igneous rocks is found in intrusions in the Wallace, Burke and Prichard Formations in the Ten Lakes area northeast of the Cabinet Mountains.
The most distinctive and more economically significant metallic mineralization is associated with sulphide dissemination occurring within selected portions of the Precambrian Belt Supergroup, and more specifically within the Revett Formation. This group of mineralization referred to as stratabound disseminated copper deposits are interpreted to result from the migration of hydrothermal solutions through unconsolidated porous sediments prior to or during diagenesis.
Although copper mineralization occurs throughout the Belt Supergroup, except in the Prichard Formation, it occurs predominantly within the Revett Formation. This class of copper and silver deposit has been the subject of considerable research in order to understand its genesis and determine the fundamental controls on the ore distribution. The deposits of the Revett Formation are all very similar, exhibiting consistent lateral metal and mineral zones that suggest primary ore-forming processes.
Important genetic factors include the paleo-environment of the sedimentary basins including local variation in mineralogy and porosity within the favourable units; the diagenesis process, including burial depth and timing of burial; lithification and silicification; and possible structural faulting that provided conduits for the remobilization of the metals. Cretaceous faulting has dissected the Precambrian stratigraphy and their hosted mineral deposits, resulting in the fragmentation of the stratabound mineralization into isolated deposits. Post-diagenetic processes such as faulting and folding have locally remobilized metals into structural sites. The extent and economic significance of this remobilization has not been documented.
Copper and silver mineralization occurs in distinct beds within the Revett Formation that are more than 2,000 feet thick. Economic concentrations occur within three distinct stratigraphically adjacent quartzite subunits (the Lower, Middle and Upper Quartzite subunits) located within the Upper Member of the Revett Formation. The enveloping surface of the stratiform Troy deposit is approximately 7,500 feet long and 1,800 feet wide, and has a thickness ranging between 30 to approximately 60 feet. Each quartzite subunit delimits the top and bottom of individual mineralized zones. In the vicinity of the mine, the stratigraphy is generally flat with very low amplitude undulations imparting sedimentary units with gentle dips of less than fifteen to twenty degrees.
The Troy deposit has been subdivided into three separate mining areas, the North ore body (“NOB”), the South ore body (“SOB”) and the East ore body (“EOB”), and is constrained by two styles of faults. The northwest trending faults tend to be brittle-ductile structures with common clay gouge infill and are exemplified by the East Fault, which forms the eastern boundary of the NOB and SOB. The East Fault displays a close spatial relationship with the copper-silver mineralization and is known to host higher grade stockwork and sulphide veins. It is not known whether these sulphides represent hypogene mineralization or local remobilization of stratabound disseminated mineralization. The second type of faults is late brittle and generally open faults with sandy infill, and are exemplified by the Cross Fault. These faults trend east-northeast to east-southeast, have steep southerly dips, and are late structures that offset the mineralized sedimentary units.
The NOB and SOB are hosted in the Lower and Middle Quartzite subunits, and the EOB is hosted in the Middle and Upper Quartzite subunits. The East Fault represents the eastern boundary of the NOB and SOB. The Cross Fault separates the NOB from the SOB, and the South Fault delineates the southern margin of the SOB. The Cross Fault offsets the East Fault. All of the other lateral ore boundaries are assay delimitated and do not represent hard geological surfaces. No economic copper and silver mineralization has been delineated in the Upper Quartzite subunit west of the East Fault, nor in the Lower Quartzite subunit east of the East Fault.
Copper and silver mineralization occurs in sulphide and oxide minerals developed in quartzite. Sulphides and oxides occur as fine-grained disseminations and millimetre to centimetre-scale rounded aggregates in quartzite beds, layer-parallel veinlets and replacement of silty interbeds and several sets of narrow veins and veinlets. Sulphide and oxide bearing veins occur into two distinct sets. The dominant vein set consists of narrow quartz-rich veinlets generally perpendicular to bedding. Subordinate veins trend sub-parallel to the bedding.
Exploration.
1963 to 1973. Exploration of the Troy area began in the early 1960s, when Bear Creek Mining Company, a subsidiary of Kennecott Copper Corporation (“BCMC”), conducted a regional reconnaissance program in search of stratiform copper deposits in western Montana. In 1963, BCMC’s chip sampling of outcrops on the south fork of Stanley Creek yielded discoveries of copper and silver mineralization in quartzite beds within the top 250 feet of the Revett Formation. This was followed by borehole drilling on the northern slope of Mount Vernon, which intersected 60 feet of copper-silver mineralization associated with one quartzite unit. Later drilling between 1964 and 1968 resulted in the delineation of the Troy deposit. By the end of 1971, BCMC had drilled a total of 112 boreholes totalling approximately 101,000 feet.
In 1967 and 1968, BCMC drove two exploration adits comprising approximately 7,000 feet of underground development to further evaluate the Troy deposit. It also drilled an additional 74 underground boreholes comprising 14,722 feet, and drove two winzes through the copper-silver mineralization to verify the borehole data and collect bulk samples for metallurgical testing.
1973 to 1999. In 1973, ASARCO leased the Troy project from Kennecott and began developing the mine. Production commenced in August 1981. Initial reserves were estimated at approximately 64 million tons grading an average of 0.76 percent copper and 1.58 troy ounces of silver per ton. ASARCO operated the mine for the next twelve years, producing an average rate of 8,500 tons of ore per day, or approximately 4.2 million ounces of silver and 18,000 tons of copper per year. Total production from the mine during this period was approximately 190,000 tons of copper and 44.4 million ounces of silver. ASARCO placed the mine on care and maintenance in 1993.
1999 to Present. Revett Silver acquired Troy from ASARCO and Kennecott through a series of related transactions in late 1999 and early 2000. The mine and mill complex remained under care and maintenance until January 2005, when Revett Silver resumed production. During the first quarter of 2004, eight boreholes were drilled to validate historical drilling data in the EOB area. Additional evaluative work conducted during 2007 resulted in the discovery of additional mineralization in the B and C beds. Revett Silver has produced approximately 26.0 million pounds of copper and approximately 3.1 million ounces of silver from the mine during the three-year period ended December 31, 2007.
Mineral Resource and Mineral Reserve Estimates. Measured resources are resources for which (a) the quantity has been computed from dimensions revealed in outcrops, trenches, workings or drill holes, and grade and/or quality are computed from the results of detailed sampling, and (b) the sites for inspection, sampling and measurement are spaced so closely and geologic character is so well defined that size, shape, depth and mineral content are well-established. Indicated resources (also referred to as probable resources or reserves) are resources for which the quantity and grade and/or quality are computed from information similar to that used for proven (measured) reserves, but the sites for inspection, sampling and measurement are farther apart.
The following table sets forth information concerning Troy’s estimated measured and indicated mineral resources at December 31, 2007. These estimates are based on a polygonal Acad® model of a global estimate of the resources in the Middle Quartzite in the NOB and SOB provided by Revett Silver and audited by SRK, supplemented by a reconciliation of historical mine information, an analysis of assay data provided to SRK, and, with respect to the mineral resources for EOB, the incorporation of 2004 drill data. The polygonal model is the same model that ASARCO used during its operation of the Troy mine, the results of which were validated by mill reconciliation data. The estimate of mineral resources is based on a net smelter return cut-off grade of $18.86 per ton. United States investors are cautioned that the terms “measured mineral resources” and “indicated mineral resources” are not recognized by the SEC. The estimation of measured mineral resources and indicated mineral resources involves greater uncertainty as to their existence and economic feasibility than the estimation of proven and probable reserves. United States investors are further cautioned not to assume that mineral resources in these categories will be converted into reserves.
Troy Estimated Mineral Resources
The following table sets forth information concerning Troy’s proven and probable reserves at December 31, 2007 derived from the weighted averages of the grades of the polygons intersecting the mineable solid areas. Other criteria such as geotechnical constraints, dilution, and a mine call factor on copper grades were then applied to arrive at the reserve estimates. The reserves stated are net of and included all losses for mine dilution and mine recovery and planned geotechnical constraints. The metallurgical recoveries used were 87% for silver and 86% for copper. The mineable reserve base was recreated through the determination of remaining solids and the estimated recovery of these solids from the mine plan developed by the polygon estimation method. The original reserve estimate was reconciled to the actual mined reserves done by ASARCO over the 10 year operating period. Reserves were developed using a NSR cut-off per ton of US $18.86.
Troy Estimated Mineral Reserves
Mining and Processing. Revett Silver extracts ore from the Troy mine using the “room and pillar” method, which is similar to the method used by ASARCO when it operated the mine. The method uses no back fill and results in very little waste. Drilling and blasting are performed at the face using jumbo and bench drills. The ore is then loaded onto 55-ton trucks using 8 cubic yard front end loaders and hauled from the muck pile to an underground crusher, which crushes the ore to minus eight inches. The crushed material is then conveyed to the surface and stored in a fine ore bin located at the mill. Mining conditions at Troy are generally good, although pillar orientations and sizes sometimes have to be modified in localized areas of the mine for safety reasons, particularly in the upper portions of the EOB. These stability issues could affect the costs of production and the ultimate extraction of ore.
The Troy mill uses standard crushing, grinding and flotation technology to produce a copper concentrate that includes significant amounts of silver. Crushed material is first fed to secondary (standard cone) and tertiary (short head cone) crushing circuits, where it is crushed to one-half inch. From there, the ore is sent to two parallel ball mills, where it is ground to 80% minus 120 microns in closed circuit with a cyclone nest. The cyclone overflow is then sent to the flotation unit, where the copper concentrate is produced. The concentrate is then dewatered and prepared for shipment by rail to an off-site smelter, where it is further refined. The mill currently operates seven days per week.
The Troy mill historically processed ore at a rate of approximately 8,500 tons per day and has achieved average recoveries of 86% for copper and 87% for silver. During 2007, the mill processed 3,037 tons of ore per day, which was less than the planned throughput of approximately 4,200 tons per day, but still approximately 17% more mill throughput 15
than was achieved in 2006. The shortfall in production during the year resulted primarily from a temporary suspension in mining and milling activities resulting from the July 30, 2007 isolated rock fall in the East Ore Body of the Troy mine, a shortage of experienced underground production drillers, and delays in obtaining repair parts for equipment.
Mine Reclamation Plan. Revett Silver is obligated under its purchase agreement with ASARCO to indemnify and hold ASARCO harmless from all of the liabilities associated with the reclamation and closure obligations at the Troy mine. During 2002, the DEQ notified Revett Silver that it might seek to double the amount of the performance bond for the mine (to approximately $20.2 million). At December 31, 2007 the performance bond amount was $12.6 million. The Company is presently conducting water quality studies at the mine and working with the DEQ and the Forest Service on a revised reclamation plan, which, once accepted, may dictate a further adjustment of the amount of the performance bond. A key issue involving Troy’s reclamation and remediation is whether water discharges from the mine will have to be treated into perpetuity, even though there is presently no evidence of acid rock drainage nor any evidence of the mobilization of other deleterious constituents at the mine site. Another issue is whether the Company must prepare and file an EIS in conjunction with the agencies’ review of its revised reclamation plan. At December 31, 2007, Revett Silver had accrued a $7.1 million liability relating to its reclamation and remediation obligations at Troy.
Rock Creek. Rock Creek is an undeveloped, exploration-stage copper and silver ore deposit located adjacent to and beneath the Cabinet Mountain Wilderness Area. BCMC discovered the mineralization in 1963, and from 1966 to 1984, Kennecott and ASARCO completed over 120 diamond drill holes in the area to delineate the size of the deposit and enable it to patent the claims covering the ore body.
The following information concerning Rock Creek is derived in substantial part from a technical report dated May 7, 2004, as amended January 27, 2005 prepared at the Company’s request by SRK (the “Rock Creek Report”). The Rock Creek Report was authored by Jean-Francoise Couture, who is a “qualified person” within the meaning of National Instrument 43-101 adopted by the Canadian provincial securities regulatory authorities.
Mining Claims. The project comprises 99 patented lode-mining claims, approximately 463 unpatented lode-mining claims arranged in seven claims groups, and five tunnel site claims, all of which are located on federal lands administered by the Forest Service. The patented claims were legally surveyed in 1983 and occupy an area of approximately 1,809 acres. The claims consist of the CUR 55 to 133, the Lynn 1 to 65, the Lynn 500 to 503, the Rock Creek 547 to 631, the Cab1 to 5 (which are tunnel site claims), the Cur 29AM to 56AM, the Wynn 1 to 76, the CG24 to 71, the Lynn 94 to 260, the L 261to 329, and the Rock 501 to 561 claims (which are mill site claims). Patented claims lying within the Cabinet Mountain Wilderness Area cover mineral rights only; claims lying outside the wilderness area cover both mineral and surface rights. The currently delineated copper and silver resource is contained within the patented claims. Revett Silver also owns approximately 754 acres of private land within the Rock Creek project area. Annual maintenance fees are $125 per unpatented claim and are payable in cash or through demonstrated assessment work. All of the mining claims are in good standing.
Physiography, Climate and Infrastructure. Rock Creek is located in the southeast portion of the Cabinet Mountains, north of the Clark Fork River. The Cabinet Mountains form a northwest-trending mountain range of rugged relief. Maximum relief in the project area is about 5,500 feet. The highest elevation in the Rock Creek project area is Saint Paul Peak, at 7,714 feet, and the lowest elevation is along the Clark Fork River near its confluence with Rock Creek, at approximately 2,200 feet.
The area’s topography was shaped by the underlying rock types and structural features. Rocks in the area are relatively competent and resistant to erosion. The talus slopes and hogback ridges are usually formed by the more weather resistant quartzite and limestone rocks. The major land-forming features were created by the Rocky Mountain uplift that was active approximately 60 million years ago, and subsequently modified by shifts in the earth’s crust, alpine glaciation and alluvial deposits.
Topography in the project area has been influenced by Pleistocene-age glaciation. In the northern part of the project area, Pleistocene alpine glaciers carved the landscape into a series of cirques, and horns characterized by nearly vertical cliffs, ledges, steep colluvial slopes and talus fields. The high peaks of the area, Saint Paul Peak, Rock Peak and Elephant Peak, are glacial horns, formed by the headword erosion of the glaciers. Small-to-moderate-sized lakes or tarns,
such as Copper Lake and Cliff Lake, have formed in the glacial cirque basins. Pleistocene-age glaciation scoured some lower elevation areas, and created a veneer of glacial deposits. Glacial lakebed deposits, silt and clay accumulations approximately 300 meters in thickness were deposited in low-elevation drainages. Melt-waters from glaciers in the upper part of the project area carried large amounts of excavated rock debris into Rock Creek, filling portions of the valley bottom. Relic terraces of the former valley bottom are exposed as higher-level benches along lower Rock Creek. In many areas the creek has since down-cut into the valley fill.
The climate of the Rock Creek project area is very similar to that at Troy. (See the section of this report entitled “Troy - Physiography, Climate and Infrastructure”)
Rock Creek is located in Sanders County, Montana, approximately five miles northeast of the town of Noxon. Sanders County is sparsely inhabited, with several rural communities. As at Troy, the local economy is based primarily agriculture and tourism, and, to a lesser extent, logging and the production of wood products. Thompson Falls, the county seat, is located approximately 37 miles southeast of Noxon, along Montana Highway 200. Sanders County is serviced by Montana Highway 200, a paved, all-weather road connecting Sandpoint, Idaho to Ravilli, Montana. An active railway line parallels Highway 200. Electrical service is available throughout the area.
History. Like Troy, the history of exploration at Rock Creek dates back to the discovery of placer gold along Libby Creek during the 1860s and continues through the discovery in the 1960’s through the early 1980’s of three major copper-silver deposits-the Spar Lake (Troy), Rock Creek and Rock Lake (Montanore) deposits-and numerous smaller deposits within the Revett Formation inside a narrow belt extending from the Coeur d’Alene Mining District northward to the Kootenai River area.
The Rock Lake (Montanore) deposit was discovered by U.S. Borax Company in 1983, and is located a few kilometres east of the Rock Creek deposit. Lateral extensions of the Rock Creek deposit were tested by U.S. Borax and resulted in the delineation of three small deposits, Rock Peak, Horizon Basin and Copper Gulch, which are laterally contiguous to Rock Creek. Revett Silver acquired the claims overlying these deposits from Kennecott in early 2000, but has no present plans to develop these satellite deposits.
During the 1980s, the Kootenai National Forest commissioned a long-term planning study of active and proposed mineral activities in the area. As part of the study, the U.S. Geological Survey and the U.S. Department of Interior commissioned two reports examining copper and silver resources in the Revett Formation on lands lying within in the national forest. The studies demonstrated the existence of significant undiscovered copper and silver resources in the area, and the economic benefits associated with their development.
Geological Setting. Like Troy, the geology of the Rock Creek area is characterized by a thick sedimentary Proterozoic sequence comprising four major conformable groups: the Lower Belt Group, the Ravalli Group, the Middle Belt Carbonate Group and the Missoula Group. In the Rock Creek area, the Lower Belt Group is represented by the Prichard Formation.
The Ravalli Group is subdivided into three formations-these being, from oldest to youngest, the Burke Formation, the Revett Formation and St. Regis Formation. The Burke Formation is comprised primarily of siltites. Its contact with the underlying Prichard Formation is gradational. The Revett Formation is a north- and east-thinning wedge of quartzite, siltite and argillite. In the Cabinet Mountains area the Revett Formation has been informally subdivided into three members: the Lower Member, the Middle Member and the Upper Member. The Lower and Upper Members are dominated by quartzites with interbedded siltite and argillite, and the Middle Member comprises siltite with interbedded argillite and quartzite. The St. Regis Formation is predominantly silty argillite and argilitic siltite.
The Revett Formation is host to distinctive and economically significant stratabound disseminated copper-silver deposits that have been interpreted as resulting from the migration of hydrothermal solutions through unconsolidated porous sediments prior to or during diagenesis. The deposit ranges in thickness from six feet to 235 feet near the Copper Lake Fault. The average thickness is approximately 27 feet. The deposit is dissected by two faults, the Copper Lake Fault and the Moran Fault, which form the boundaries between three resource blocks that were delineated by ASARCO in the 1970s.
Exploration.
1963 to 1972. The first indications of copper mineralization within the Rock Creek project area were discovered during a reconnaissance geological mapping program carried out by BCMC within the Belt Supergroup in 1963. Malachite staining associated with quartzite units was discovered on an outcrop on the east face of Rock Peak. During the summers of 1964 and 1965, the copper and silver mineralization was traced laterally into the North Fork area over a distance of approximately three miles along the Rock Creek drainage. A large property was staked by BCMC and the first borehole was drilled in 1966. Between 1966 and 1973, BCMC drilled a total of 10 vertical boreholes on the south slopes of Rock Peak totalling approximately 3,444 meters in length. Based on these results, BCMC staked a total of 143 claims. In September 1972, 101 of these claims were allowed to lapse, resulting in 41 claims, which were known as the “Cur Claims”.
1973 to 1999. In 1973, ASARCO entered into an agreement with BCMC to acquire the Cur Claims within the Rock Creek project area. Seven additional claims were added by ASARCO in 1974, and in 1978 an additional 84 claims were staked, increasing the project area to 132 claims. A borehole drilled mainly for assessment work and reconnaissance mapping during this period revealed additional copper-bearing outcrops on the east fork of the Bull River, suggesting that the copper and silver mineralization extended north of the area initially drilled by BCMC.
ASARCO resumed diamond drilling in the area in 1979, successfully tracing the copper-silver mineralization northward from the initial BCMC discovery. An additional 17 claims were staked that year, bringing the total number of claims on the project to 149. Based on these drilling results, ASARCO initiated an aggressive drilling program. Ten holes drilled in 1980 extended the copper-silver mineralization on the northern slopes of Rock Peak and resulted in the staking of ten additional claims. A ground grid system was established over the project with a base station on Chicago Peak. The perimeter of the 76 claims was also surveyed.
In 1981, two unfinished holes were completed and 26 additional holes were drilled, mainly as infill between previous holes. An additional 21 holes were drilled in 1982, including five short small-sized holes near outcropping mineralization on the east margin of the property in order to recover copper-silver mineralization intersections on as many claims as possible. An induced polarisation survey was completed over twelve surveyed lines. During this period the U.S. Forest Service initiated comprehensive verification audits of drilling results. This verification included monitoring core recovery at the drill site, geological description, core photography and representative sampling of mineralization intersection. In 1983, 47 additional boreholes were completed, mostly to test the lateral extensions of the known mineralization.
Between 1979 and 1983, ASARCO drilled a total of 111 boreholes comprising approximately 33,750 meters on the Rock Creek project. This work delineated copper-silver mineralization extending over a surface area measuring approximately 4,300 metres by 1,200 metres. According to the final exploration report prepared by ASARCO in 1989, this deposit contained a mineral resource estimated at 143.76 million tons grading an average of 0.68 percent copper and 1.65 ounces of silver per ton. The resource estimate was prepared by polygonal method using 107 drill intercepts from 94 boreholes over a minimum four-foot thickness, and was based on a copper price of $1 per pound, a silver price of $7 per ounce, and net smelter return cut-off grade of $10 per ton. Using a sixteen-foot minimum width, ASARCO estimated the ore reserves at 136.6 million tons grading 0.74 percent copper and 1.67 ounces per ton silver. The Company has not undertaken any independent investigation of these estimates nor has it independently analyzed the previous work in order to verify classifications. The Company believes these historical estimates are relevant to its continued exploration and evaluation activities, even though they posit nothing more than a conceptual understanding of the size of the potential resource at Rock Creek.
ASARCO commissioned preliminary conceptual engineering design studies for 10,000 tons per day mine and mill complex and initiated permitting for the project. Three pilot boreholes were drilled along potential access tunnels for an evaluation tunnel. In 1987, ASARCO submitted a plan of operation to the U.S. Forest Service and the Montana Department of State Lands (now DEQ). A draft environmental impact statement was submitted in July 1995 and a supplemental draft environmental impact statement was submitted in January 1998.
1999 to Present. Revett Silver acquired Rock Creek from ASARCO and Kennecott in a series of related transactions in 1999 and 2000, following which it began pursuit of an operating permit for the project. In August 2001, the U.S. Forest Service and the Montana DEQ issued a final environmental impact statement for the project, and in June 2003 the Forest Service issued a record of decision approving the Company’s proposed plan of operation. Several regional and national environmental organizations subsequently appealed the administrative decision and the environmental impact statement on which it was based, contending that the project would adversely affect air and water quality and threatened species, that the decision and the environmental impact statement were based on insufficient information, and that they violated a number of federal statutes and regulations, including ESA, the National Forest Management Act, and the Wilderness Act. This appeal was resolved in the Company’s favor in September 2003, but is now being further challenged in federal district court. In addition, many of the same environmental organizations that challenged the Forest Service’s record of decision, joined by other organizations, filed an appeal in federal district court in July 2003 challenging the USFWS’s May 2003 biological opinion, which concluded that the Rock Creek development would not jeopardize the continued existence of grizzly bears or bull trout, both of which are listed as threatened species under the ESA. In March 2005 the court set aside and remanded the biological opinion, and in October 2006, the USFWS issued a revised biological opinion, reconfirming the conclusions reached in its earlier opinion. The revised opinion is currently being challenged, yet again. (See the section of this report entitled “Legal Proceedings.”)
Mineralization. The mineralization at Rock Creek is similar to that at Troy. (See the section of this report entitled “Troy - Mineralization”) The potentially economic portion of the Rock Creek deposit forms an oblong body measuring at least 16,000 feet along the long axis by 7,200 feet along the short axis. The long axis of the ore body is generally oriented along the north-south direction, and the copper-silver mineralization occurs within a very open anticlinal structure, plunging slightly to the northwest, between elevations of 4,300 feet and 6,000 feet above mean sea level. On average, the ore body dips shallowly towards the north and west.
The mineralization occurs primarily within quartzite units of the lower Revett Formation and subordinately within siltite and argillite sub-units of the lower and middle Revett Formation. The bulk of the mineralization of economic interest is confined to one layer, but locally there may be up to four vertically stacked, potentially minable layers, ranging in thickness from six feet up to a maximum of 235 feet, near the Copper Lake Fault. The average thickness is approximately twenty-seven feet.
Copper-silver mineralization outcroppings are prevalent in two general areas: in the North Basin, north of Saint Paul Peak; and on the south side of Saint Paul Peak, south of Milwaukee Pass and Cliff Lake. In the vicinity of the deposit the host lithologies are generally very competent. Locally, however, rock units are moderately to highly fractured, particularly adjacent to fault zones. Regionally, six broad concentric mineralogical zones have been identified within the Revett Formation. The copper-silver mineralization of economic interest occurs primarily within two of these zones. Each mineral zone is defined by specific sulphide minerals and the contact between each zone is typically gradational, or locally sharp. The mineral halos are comprised of different mineral assemblages and mineral abundances.
Copper is found in the sulphide minerals bornite and chalcocite, and most often occurs as fine-grained disseminations with concentration of these minerals (less than two percent up to approximately six percent) along fractures, veinlets and bedding planes. There are two adjacent copper sulphide zones: the bornite-calcite zone and the chalcocite-chlorite zone. Economically significant amounts of silver are found only in these two copper sulphide zones, primarily as native silver. The thickness of these zones and their copper and silver grades are generally quite continuous across large areas, while locally there are segments considerably thinner or of lower grade.
Enveloping the bornite-calcite and chalcocite-chlorite zones are four additional concentric mineral zones that generally have no economic interest. In concentric shells away from the economic core these are: the chalcopyrite-ankerite zone, the chalcopyrite-calcite zone, the galena-calcite zone and the pyrite-calcite zone. According to published descriptions, the mineral zones appear to be thicker above the main bornite-calcite, chalcocite-chlorite zones than below, although several boreholes have not completely traversed the full zoning profile.
Drilling. The Rock Creek database includes data from surface diamond drilling. This database includes information about lithology, mineralogy, assay results for copper, silver and occasionally lead and zinc. The borehole data was acquired by three separate companies between 1966 and 1999, and comprises the following:
Ten NQ-size diamond drill holes comprising 3,444 meters that were completed by BCMC between 1966 and 1970. Core date for these holes has not been located.
111 drill holes comprising 33,750 meters that were completed by ASARCO between 1974 and 1983, with 91 of these holes having been drilled between 1981 and 1983. The drill core was mostly NQ and NX in size, with lesser BX and BQ core for deeper holes, except along the periphery of the deposit where thirteen short AX/EX drill holes comprising 444 meters were drilled. The core for these holes is stored in wax-coated cardboard boxes in a closed and locked warehouse building located near the project. The boxes are individually labelled and stored in racks or piles that are easily accessible and available for inspection and re-assaying.
Three diamond drill holes comprising 859 meters that were completed by ASARCO in 1991 and 1992 for assessment work purposes. These boreholes are situated outside the mineral resource area. The drill core is HQ/NX in size and is stored in wax-coated cardboard boxes in a closed and locked warehouse building located near the project.
The collar positions of all but two of these boreholes were surveyed longitudinally, latitudinally and by elevation by a registered land surveyor. (The collar positions of two boreholes drilled by BCMC are approximate because no casing could be found.) The vast majority of the boreholes were drilled vertically or at steeply inclined angles ranging from 60 degrees to 80 degrees. Three of the boreholes were drilled at shallower angles ranging from 50 degrees to 60 degrees.
ASARCO used Sperry Sun "multi-shot" surveying to monitor the downhole lateral deviation on 74 of the holes. Multi-shot surveying is a photographic/magnetic surveying method which is considered to be reliable in areas such as Rock Creek, where the rock units generally are not magnetic. Readings were typically taken every 40 feet. Short holes and abandoned holes were not surveyed. The borehole data was then digitized into a Gemcom database by Revett Silver. This database shows the location of each borehole, the down hole surveying results, assay results for copper and silver, and lithological information concerning the main stratigraphic subunits of the Revett Formation.
Sampling and Analysis. Assay data for resource modelling originates solely from drill core samples. The assay database contains assay data samples collected by three distinct operators. The sampling methodology remained consistent among the operators. The Rock Creek deposit was sampled by vertical and steeply inclined diamond drill holes. The drilling pattern was designed to intersect the copper-silver mineralization at a high angle, generally perpendicular to the interpreted boundaries of the ore horizon. In addition, drilling programs were aimed at generating an "ore grade" drilling intercept within each mineral claim located within the Cabinet Mountains Wilderness Area.
The spacing of the drilling information varies greatly across the deposit because of the extremely variable topographic surface, which prohibited drilling on a regular grid pattern. The drill spacing varies from approximately 325 feet to approximately 1,600 feet. The average borehole spacing is approximately 1,025 feet.
Assay samples were collected from mechanically split cores, except for the AX/EX cores, where samples were taken from whole core. Sample lengths varied from one foot to six feet. Assay samples from the visually determined copper-silver mineralization zone were uniformly two feet in length, while samples taken from outside the mineralized zone were five feet in length. A total of 7,335 samples were collected from drill core and submitted for assaying.
As near as can be determined from the archived documents, the samples were prepared by the assaying laboratories. Two laboratories were primarily used: samples collected by BCMC were submitted to the Union Assay Laboratory in Salt Lake City; and samples collected by ASARCO were sent to ASARCO’s assay office in Wallace, Idaho. Check assaying was performed by secondary laboratories, including the Rocky Mountain Geochemical Laboratory in Salt Lake City, ASARCO's Umpire Laboratory in El Paso, Texas, and the Union Assay Laboratory and the Skyline Laboratory in Tucson, Arizona.
Mineral Resource Estimates. ASARCO constructed a polygonal resource estimate for the Rock Creek project in 1989. The estimate was based on a sixteen-foot minimum mining height, a tonnage factor of twelve cubic feet per ton, a copper price of $1 per pound, a silver price of $7 per pounce, and a net smelter cut-off grade of $10 per ton. Each polygon consisted of the length-weighted average of every assay interval found within the horizon defined.
The Company retained SRK in 2003 to audit ASARCO’s methodology and calculations, and issue a report concerning the Rock Creek resource. SRK issued its initial report in May 2004 and issued a revised and updated report in January 2005, which contained the following conclusions:
The geology at Rock Creek was well understood from existing drilling results and information obtained from operations at the geologically similar Troy mine.
Even though the drill hole spacing was wide due to topographical considerations, the distribution of the copper- silver mineralization at Rock Creek was unusually uniform throughout the deposit.
ASARCO’s classification of the mineral resource, which was based on the density of the drill data and the continuity of the geometry and grade of the mineralized zones, would be reasonable were the copper grades adjusted to remove unsupported factors.
ASARCO’s estimate of the mineral resources of Rock Creek meets the requirements of an inferred mineral resource.
The following table sets forth summary information concerning the estimated inferred mineral resources at Rock Creek. The estimate is based on a price of $1 per pound for copper, a price of $7 per ounce for silver, and a net smelter return cut-off grade of $10 per ton. United States investors in particular are advised that, although the term “inferred mineral resource” is recognized and even required by Canadian securities laws (where the Company is domiciled), it is not a recognized or accepted term under rules and regulations promulgated by the SEC. “Inferred mineral resources” are not the same as “proven reserves: or “probable reserves” as defined by the SEC’s rules and regulations, principally because they are less certain and not necessarily amenable to economic development. No investor should assume that all or any portion of the inferred mineral resources depicted in the following table are the same as proven reserves or probable reserves, that additional exploration or development work will cause them to be categorized as proven reserves or probable reserves, or that they can be feasibly developed and exploited.
Rock Creek Inferred Mineral Resources
Other Properties. The Company has acquired the mineral rights to three other exploration-stage prospects located in the vicinity of Troy or Rock Creek: the adjacent properties at Rock Creek (the “Adjacent Properties”), the JF property, and the Vermillion River and Sims Creek properties. All of these projects are Revett Formation-hosted, stratabound silver and copper prospects.
The Adjacent Properties comprise three unpatented claim groups, Copper Gulch, Horizon Basin and Rock Peak, which cover the lateral extension of the Rock Creek deposit. Although the prior owners of the Adjacent Properties drilled 36 boreholes into the mineralization of these claims groups, there is presently insufficient data to draw any conclusions about the presence, size or grade of a mineral resource.
The JF property consists of one unpatented claim group located approximately one mile south of the Troy mine. ASARCO, the prior owner of the property, conducted a limited drilling program on the property over 20 years ago, consisting of twelve diamond drill holes totaling 12,183 feet and three smaller holes that tested the mineralization outcropping totaling 752 feet. The drill hole spacing ranged from 250 to 700 feet, and revealed copper-silver mineralization in a flat lying north-south trending zone approximately 800 feet wide and approximately one mile long, with an estimated average thickness of 27 feet. The JF deposit remains open on its east, west and south margins. The Company plans to conduct a more extensive exploration program on the JF property in 2008 to verify ASARCO’s
estimate. Management of the Company currently believes that confirmation of a commercially minable resource on the JF property could extend the life of the Troy mine by as much as five years. The Vermillion River and the Sims Creek properties consist of two unpatented claim groups located approximately 25 miles southeast of Rock Creek. Limited drilling was conducted by the previous owner of the Vermillion River claim group. The Sims group is untested.
Glossary of Technical Terms. The following is a glossary of certain technical terms used in this report:
adit - a nearly horizontal opening by which a mineral deposit is evaluated or by which a mine is entered, drained or ventilated. An adit is akin to a tunnel, except that it is open only at one end, whereas a tunnel is open at each end.
Argillite - a very fine-grained terrigeneous sedimentary rock composed primarily of clay-rich material.
Argillite Siltite - a fine-grained sedimentary rock composed of clays and silt (fine sand).
beds - a sedimentary term describing the layering character of rocks that were layed down on a horizontal surface.
Belt Supergroup - a sub-division of Precambrian stratigraphic record which refers to rock strata ranging in age from about 1,325 million years to about 900 million years.
borehole - synonymous to a drill hole.
brittle-ductile - a fault that displays mechanical properties common to both brittle and ductile faults. Typically brittle-ductile faults show both plastic and brittle deformation features such as internal foliation, rupture plane and breccia development.
claims or mining claims - the right to explore a property for mineralization, and, if warranted, to develop the property and exploit the minerals.
Cretaceous - a subdivision of the Mesozoic Era, which refers to a geological period of the Earth’s history that began approximately 144 million years ago and ended approximately 65 millions years ago.
cross fault - a fault transecting other geological features at a sharp angle.
deposits - a descriptive term used to characterize an accumulation of a given material above background level, such as sand, gravel, or more commonly metals.
fault or faulting - a fracture in the earth's crust accompanied by a displacement of one side of the fracture with respect to the other and in a direction parallel to the fracture.
feasibility study - a comprehensive study of a deposit in which all geological, engineering, operating, economic and other relevant factors are considered in sufficient detail that it could reasonably serve as the basis for a final decision by a financial institution to finance the development of the deposit for mineral production.
gouge - clay-rich material typically found as infill in brittle fault zones.
grade - a term used to assign the metal content of a mineral deposit, such as percent per ton or ounces per ton.
indicated mineral resource - that part of a mineral resource for which quantity, grade or quality, densities, shape and physical characteristics can be estimated with a level of confidence sufficient to allow the appropriate application of technical and economic parameters, to support mine planning and evaluation of the economic viability of the deposit. The estimate is based on detailed and reliable exploration and testing information gathered through appropriate techniques from locations such as outcrops, trenches, pits, workings and drill holes that are spaced closely enough for geological and grade continuity to be reasonably assumed.
inferred mineral resource - that part of a mineral resource for which quantity and grade or quality can be estimated on the basis of geological evidence and limited sampling and reasonably assumed, but not verified, geological and grade continuity. The estimate is based on limited information and sampling gathered through appropriate techniques from locations such as outcrops, trenches, pits, workings and drill holes.
infill - a word used to characterize the material filling a cavity or void in the rocks, such as a fracture or a fault.
lode mining - the extraction of ore from a mineral deposit occurring in place.
measured mineral resource - that part of a mineral resource for which quantity, grade or quality, densities, shape, physical characteristics are so well established that they can be estimated with confidence sufficient to allow the appropriate application of technical and economic parameters, to support production planning and evaluation of the economic viability of the deposit. The estimate is based on detailed and reliable exploration, sampling and testing information gathered through appropriate techniques from locations such as outcrops, trenches, pits, workings and drill holes that are spaced closely enough to confirm both geological and grade continuity.
mineral reserve - the economically mineable part of a measured or indicated mineral resource demonstrated by at least a preliminary feasibility study. This study must include adequate information on mining, processing, metallurgical, economic and other relevant factors that demonstrate, at the time of reporting that economic extraction can be justified. A mineral reserve includes diluting materials and allowances for losses that may occur when the material is mined. Mineral reserves are sub-divided in order of increasing confidence into probable mineral reserves and proven mineral reserves.
mineral resource - a concentration or occurrence of natural, solid, inorganic or fossilized organic material in or on the Earth’s crust in such form and quantity and of such a grade or quality that it has reasonable prospects for economic extraction. The location, quantity, grade, geological characteristics and continuity of a mineral resource are known, estimated or interpreted from specific geological evidence and knowledge.
mineralization - accumulation above background of a specific the presence of minerals in a specific area or geological formation.
outcropping - exposure of bedrock on the surface.
patented claims - a claim that generally results in title to the property (including surface ownership and ownership of all other resources on the property) and the right to extract and exploit the minerals on the property residing with the locator of the claim or his transferee. Patented claims issued in the Cabinet Mountains Wilderness Area, where the Rock Creek project is located, do not extend to surface ownership.
Pleistocene - a subdivision of the Tertiary Era which refers to a geological period of the Earth’s history that began approximately 1.8 million years ago and ended approximately 11,000 years ago.
Proterozoic - geological period of the Earth's history that began 2.5 billion years ago and ended 543 million years ago.
Precambrian Era - a geologic period of the Earth’s history that ended approximately 570 million years ago.
probable mineral reserve - the economically mineable part of an indicated and, in some circumstances, a measured mineral resource demonstrated by at least a preliminary feasibility study. This study must include adequate information on mining, processing, metallurgical, economic and other relevant factors that demonstrate, at the time of reporting, that economic extraction can be justified.
proven mineral reserve - the economically mineable part of a measured mineral resource demonstrated by at least a preliminary feasibility study. This study must include adequate information on mining, processing, metallurgical, economic and other relevant factors that demonstrate, at the time of reporting, that economic extraction can be justified.
Quartzite - sedimentary rock that is composed primarily of quartz.
Revett Formation - sub-division of the Belt Supergroup in the Montana area.
stratabound - character of a geological feature that is said to be confined between two stratigraphic beds or layers. The Troy and Rock Creek Cu-Ag deposits are both stratabound deposits.
stratiform - character of a geological feature that is said to be concordant or sub-parallel to the stratigraphic layers.
stratigraphically - adjective from stratigraphic which characterize the successive layering of rocks.
sub-units - sub-division of a rock unit.
Tertiary - a subdivision of the Earth’s history that started approximately 65 million years ago and ended approximately 2 million years ago.
trend - the directional line of a rock bed or formation.
unpatented claim - a claim which results in the ownership of the property remaining in the United States government with the right to extract and exploit the minerals on the claims residing with the locator of the claim or his transferee.
Item 3.