Item 2. Properties.
We acquired Troy and Rock Creek in February 2005 through our acquisition of Revett Silver. Revett Silver, in turn, acquired Troy and Rock Creek from ASARCO and Kennecott in October 1999 and February 2000. Revett Silver holds Troy through its Genesis, Inc. wholly-owned subsidiary and it holds Rock Creek through its wholly-owned RC Resources Inc. subsidiary.
Geological Setting. The geology of the region is characterized by a thick sedimentary sequence Proterozoic in age. Within this sequence, there are four major conformable groups: Lower Belt, Ravalli, Middle Belt Carbonate and Missoula Groups. The Troy and Rock Creek deposits are found within the Ravalli Group, specifically in the Revett Formation. These formations represent a mature, clastic sandstone of varying thicknesses with the sulphide mineralization being stratabound and disseminated. Copper and silver mineralization occurs within favorable beds throughout the Revett Formation (in excess of 2,000 feet thick).
Stratabound Copper-Silver Deposits. Base and precious metals mineralization is associated with sulphide dissemination occurring within selected portions of the Precambrian Belt Supergroup, and more specifically within the Revett Formation. This type of mineralization, referred to as stratabound disseminated copper deposits, is interpreted to result from the migration of hydrothermal solutions through unconsolidated porous sediments prior to, or during, diagenesis. This class of copper and silver deposits have received considerable research to understand their genesis and determine the fundamental controls on ore distribution. All deposits are very similar and exhibit consistent lateral metal and mineral zoning which were interpreted to derive from primary ore-forming processes.
Copper-Silver Mineralization. Copper is found in the sulphide minerals bornite and chalcocite and most often occurs as fine-grained disseminations with concentration of these minerals (less than two percent up to approximately six percent) along fractures, veinlets, and bedding planes. There are two adjacent copper sulphide zones: the bornite-calcite zone and the chalcocite-chlorite zone. Significant amounts of silver are found only in these two copper sulphide zones, primarily as native silver. The thickness of these zones and their copper and silver grades are generally quite continuous across large areas, while locally there are segments considerably thinner or of lower grade. Enveloping the bornite-calcite and chalcocite-chlorite zones are four additional concentric mineral zones that generally have no economic interest. In concentric shells away from the core these are: the chalcopyrite-ankerite, chalcopyrite-calcite zones, galena-calcite and pyrite-calcite zones.
Physiography, Climate and Infrastructure. The Cabinet Mountains form a northwest-trending mountain range of rugged relief. Maximum relief in the area is about 5,500 feet ranging from 2,200 feet in the valleys to 7,700 feet at the peaks. The area’s topography is controlled by the underlying rock types and structural features. Rocks in the area are relatively competent and resistant to erosion. The talus slopes and hogback ridges are usually formed by the more weather resistant quartzite and limestone rocks.
The major land-forming features were created by the Rocky Mountain uplift that was active approximately 60 million years ago, and were subsequently modified by shifts in the earth’s crust, alpine glaciation and alluvial deposits. Topography in the area of the projects has been influenced by Pleistocene-age glaciation. In the northern part of the project area, Pleistocene alpine glaciers carved the landscape into a series of cirques, and horns characterized by nearly vertical cliffs, ledges, steep colluvial slopes, and talus fields. Pleistocene-age glaciation scoured some lower elevation areas, and created a veneer of glacial deposits. Glacial lake bed deposits, silt and clay accumulations approximately 1,000 feet in thickness were deposited in the low-elevation drainages.
The climate of the area is characterized by a combination of Pacific maritime and continental climates. The maritime influences are strongest in the winter when relatively warm, moist air from the Pacific Ocean is cooled as it is lifted over the mountains and mixes with colder Arctic air moving south. This results in snowfall with significant accumulations in the higher elevations. Continental influences are more prevalent in the summer with thundershowers during May and June followed by hot, dry weather into mid-September. Annual precipitation totals vary from about 30 inches along the Clark Fork River valley to about 80 inches at the highest elevations in the Cabinet Mountains. Temperatures in the area are moderate. During the summer months, minimum night-time temperatures are in the 50 to 60 degrees Fahrenheit range. Winter cold waves occur, but mild weather is more common. The long-term annual average temperature is about 45 degrees Fahrenheit. The warmest month, July, averages 65 degrees Fahrenheit and the coldest month, January, averages 24 degrees Fahrenheit.
The Troy mine is located in Lincoln County, Montana, which is sparsely inhabited, with several rural communities. Libby, the county seat, is located approximately 32 miles northeast of the Troy mine. The mine site is accessed by a seven mile paved mine road which connects to Montana Highway 56, a paved all-weather road connecting Montana Highway 200 to U.S. Highway 2. An active railway line parallels Highway 2. Copper concentrates from Troy are trucked to a leased warehouse and rail siding in Libby. The mine is connected to the local power grid.
Rock Creek is located in Sanders County, Montana, approximately 5 miles northeast of the town of Noxon. Sanders County is sparsely inhabited, with several rural communities. Thompson Falls, the county seat, is located approximately 37 miles southeast of Noxon along Montana Highway 200. An active railway line parallels Highway 200 and will connect directly to a copper concentrate loadout facility at the project site. Electrical service is available throughout the area including a high voltage power line which passes through the project area. Rock Creek is ideally situated from an infrastructure standpoint as all major services (power, highway, rail, and water) are available within four miles of the planned and approved project site.
The local economy is based primarily on agriculture and tourism, and, to a lesser extent, logging and the production of wood products. Unemployment in Lincoln and Sanders Counties is high relative to state and national unemployment rates.
Development History. Revett Minerals’ asset development dates back to 1963 when the Bear Creek Mining Company (a subsidiary of Kennecott Copper Corp.; “Kennecott”) discovered stratabound copper and silver mineralization in the Cabinet Mountains of northwestern Montana. Over the next two decades, extensive exploration activity delineated both the Troy (aka “Spar Lake”) and Rock Creek deposits. The Troy and Rock Creek deposits share many similarities in geology, geochemistry, and physiology. Based on extensive analysis of these similarities, the State and Federal agencies responsible for permitting and oversight of mining operations gained sufficient comfort from the environmentally compatible operating history at Troy to grant approvals for Rock Creek.
In 1973, ASARCO leased the Troy project from Kennecott and began permitting and development of the Troy mine. Production commenced in August 1981 continuing until 1993 when operations were placed on care and maintenance due to low metal prices. During the twelve year period of production, the Troy mine produced approximately 4.0 million ounces of silver and 34 million pounds of copper per year. A total of 44.4 million ounces of silver and 389.9 million pounds of copper produced during this period. The mine and plant improvements were owned by ASARCO with Kennecott retaining a 25% net profits interest.
In 1973, ASARCO also acquired Rock Creek claims from Kennecott and commenced an exploration program comprising 121 boreholes. According to a final exploration report prepared by ASARCO in 1989, the Rock Creek deposit contained a mineral resource estimated at 143.76 million tons grading an average of 0.68% copper and 1.65 ounces of silver per ton using a polygonal method.
In 1982 and 1983, U.S. Borax and Chemical Corporation, a subsidiary of Rio Tinto PLC (“U.S. Borax”), explored the lateral extensions of Rock Creek deposit on adjacent claims. In 1984 U.S. Borax estimated the mineral inventory of 48 million tons grading 0.54%Cu and 1.66opt Ag in three satellite zones (the “Adjacent Properties”) using a polygonal methodology. This mineral inventory and methodology has not been audited. Revett acquired these Adjacent Properties in 2000 as part of the Kennecott (also a subsidiary of Rio Tinto) transaction.
Revett Minerals has subsequently acquired the mineral rights to two other exploration stage stratabound copper/silver prospects located south of, and on trend with Rock Creek, these being the Vermilion River and Sims Creek projects.
Troy. Troy is an underground “room and pillar” copper and silver mine with a conventional flotation mill located in Lincoln County, Montana. Developed by ASARCO in 1980 and 81 at a cost of approximately $100 million, the mine comprises 24 patented lode-mining claims and approximately 417 unpatented lode-mining claims. We re-opened Troy in December 2004 at a cost of approximately $8 million, and have continuously operated it since then. High silver content copper concentrate from Troy is currently shipped under a renewable long term contract to smelters within North America. The Troy concentrates typically contain 34% to 40% copper and 70 to 110 troy ounces of silver per ton. The Troy concentrates are considered high grade and clean, and contain no deleterious elements.
The Troy Deposit Economically significant mineralization occurs at Troy within three distinct stratigraphically adjacent quartzite sub-units (Upper, Middle and Lower Quartzites) located within the Upper Member of the Revett Formation. In plan view, the enveloping surface of the stratiform deposit measures approximately 7,500 feet by 1,800 feet. In the vicinity of the mine, the stratigraphy is generally flat with a shallow dip of four degrees (7% grade). There are two styles of faults in the mine area. Northwest trending faults are brittle-ductile structures with common clay gouge as exemplified by the East Fault. The East Fault displays a close spatial relationship with the copper-silver mineralization. The second type of faults represents late brittle and generally open faults with sandy infill typified by the Cross Fault which separates the north and south ore bodies. These faults trend ENE to ESE and have steep southerly dips. These faults are late structures offsetting the mineralized sedimentary units. The Cross Fault also offsets the East Fault.
The Troy deposit has been subdivided into three separate mining areas: the North Ore Body (“NOB”), South Ore Body (“SOB”) and the East Ore Body (“EOB”), delineated primarily by two faults dissecting the mineralized quartzite sub-units. The NOB and SOB are developed in the Lower and Middle Quartzite while the Middle and Upper Quartzite sub-units are mined in the EOB. No economic copper and silver mineralization was delineated in the Upper Quartzite west of the East Fault and similarly in the Lower Quartzite east of the East Fault (which represents the eastern boundary of the NOB and SOB), The South fault delineates the southern margin of the SOB. All other lateral ore boundaries are assay delimitated and do not represent hard geological surfaces.
Exploration drilling by Revett in 2006 and 2007 to delineate additional mineralization beneath the SOB in the lower member of the Revett formation was successful in discovering a new orebody located in the favourable “C-Beds”. This deposit is now incorporated in our probable reserve (see Troy Exploration discussion below).
Current Troy Reserve Estimates (December 31, 2009)
The following key factors were used in determining the foregoing reserves:
Current Troy Resources Estimate (December 31, 2009)
1)
Resources listed for the JF Property are Historic Resources as defined by the CIMM and have not been audited by a Qualified Person. In 1992, ASARCO reported in an internal report a “Mineral Reserve” for the JF deposit of “11 million tons grading 0.4% Cu and 1.4 opt Ag.” This historical mineral resource estimate, which was prepared before the adoption of NI 43-101 and uses categories other than the ones set out in section 1.2 of NI 43-101, is considered relevant. A Qualified Person has not, however, done sufficient work to classify the historical estimate as current mineral resources and accordingly, we do not treat ASARCO’s historical estimate as current mineral resources. You are cautioned that the ASARCO historical estimate should not be relied upon. While we have not yet taken the steps to validate this drilling information with new drilling data, Larry Erickson, P Eng., a Qualified Person in accordance with NI 43-101, has reviewed ASARCO’s drilling data (ie; core logs, assay results, sections) and believes it to be reliable.
Reserve and mineral resource estimates were performed by Larry Erickson, P.E., P.G., Revett’s Qualified Person located at the Troy Mine. Reserve and mineral resource estimates conform to Canadian Standards on Mineral Resources and Mineral Reserves Definitions and Guidelines (CIM Guidelines, August 20, 2000) in compliance with NI 43-101 requirements. Proven and probable reserves do not include resources contained in planned pillars; only represents material scheduled to be extracted and milled. United States investors are cautioned that the terms “measured mineral resources”, “indicated mineral resources”, and “inferred mineral resources” are not recognized by the SEC. The estimation of measured mineral resources and indicated mineral resources involves greater uncertainty as to their existence and economic feasibility than the estimation of proven and probable reserves. United States investors are further cautioned not to assume that mineral resources in these categories will be converted into reserves.
Operations ASARCO operated Troy at approximately 8,500 tons per day (“tpd”) between 1981-1993 while mining primarily in the 60 foot thick Middle Quartzite unit. We are currently operating at the planned rate of 4,100 tpd to the mill. The majority of our mine plan focuses on the remaining 30 to 40 foot thick East Ore Body and Lower Quartzite units. We believe continued workforce training and the hiring of additional technical support will help us increase production levels.
During 2009, Troy achieved record mill throughput, and the lowest direct operating cost per ton, since the mine was reopened in 2005. However, low head grades, coupled with a period of lower metallurgical recoveries, due to a higher level of non-sulfide ores encountered, yielded lower silver and copper production and higher unit cash cost of production. The lower grades were expected as scheduled in the life-of-mine plan. Mining has progressed through the higher non-sulfide area and recoveries have returned to normal.
In 2010, we expect to produce 1.4 million tons of ore grading 1.01 ounces per ton silver and 0.43% copper and recover 1,290,500 ounces of silver and 10,749,703 pounds of copper. Head grades should improve towards the end of the year as the higher grade “C-Beds” enter the production mix. The proven and probable reserve currently defined at Troy provides for a six year life-of-mine plan at our current production rate.
Ongoing Troy Exploration. We have been exploring beneath and adjacent to the current workings at Troy for the past several drilling seasons. Our primary target has been stratabound copper/silver mineralization located in the “I-Beds” of the Lower Revett Formation, approximately 1,200 feet stratagraphically below the main ore body at the mine. ASARCO had initially identified mineralization in these beds during drill programs in the 1980s but did not follow up with subsequent drilling as metals prices began to fall in the early 1990s.
Since the Rock Creek project is hosted in the upper quartzite units of the Lower Revett Formation, specifically the “A, C, E & G-Beds”, we believed the potential for ore grade mineralization existed in these beds. Our 2007 drilling campaign confirmed mineralization in the “I-Beds” but also resulted in the discovery of a mineable reserve hosted in the “C-Beds” directly beneath the current workings. Based on currently available information, the “C-Beds” contain probable reserves of 1.23 million tons grading 1.61 ounces per ton of silver and 0.56% copper. Drilling of these targets continued in 2008 but were temporarily suspended in order to conserve cash. We intend to restart the drilling program and have budgeted $ 406,000 for exploration starting in August 2010.
Generalized cross-section of the Troy Mine area looking east
In addition to the “I-Bed” mineralization beneath the current Troy workings, ASARCO discovered and delineated the “JF” copper/silver deposit to the south of the mine. ASARCO reported in an internal report a “Mineral Reserve” for the JF deposit of “11 million tons grading 1.4 ounces per ton of siliver and 0.4% copper.” We plan to conduct a confirmatory drill program on the JF deposit when finances and permitting allow.
Our longer range goals are to step out from the immediate mine area to explore for additional resources that would allow us to use our existing mine and processing infrastructure. There are promising mineralization trends to the east and north of the Troy mine, which will be our initial targets. We have been expanding our claim holdings in these areas.
Mine Reclamation Plan. We have posted a reclamation performance bond for the Troy mine. The amount of the bond was $12.96 million as of December 31, 2009, which included $ 6.6 million in a restricted cash account. We are presently conducting environmental studies at the mine in conjunction with the DEQ and the USFS for completion of a revised reclamation plan. This plan, once accepted, may dictate a further adjustment of the amount of the reclamation performance bond. A key issue involving Troy’s reclamation and remediation is whether water discharges from the mine will require treatment even though there is presently no evidence of acid rock drainage nor any evidence of the mobilization of other deleterious constituents at the mine site. A secondary issue is whether the Company will be required to file an EIS in conjunction with the agencies’ review of its revised reclamation plan. At December 31, 2009, we had accrued an $8.2 million liability relating to our reclamation and remediation obligations at Troy.
Rock Creek. Rock Creek is a world-class development stage stratabound copper and silver deposit located in Sanders County, Montana. The project comprises 99 patented lode-mining claims, 162 unpatented lode-mining claims, 5 tunnel site claims, and 85 mill site claims. The patented claims lying within the Cabinet Mountain Wilderness Area convey mineral rights only; the claims lying outside the wilderness area convey both mineral and surface rights. The patented claims were legally surveyed in 1983 and occupy an area of approximately 1,809 acres. All of the Rock Creek mining claims are in good standing. The project also includes 745 acres of fee land and 673 of fee land to be used for grizzly bears mitigation purposes.
The project is approximately sixteen air miles or forty-five road miles from the Troy mill site. While the ore body lies under the Cabinet Mountain Wilderness area, the company will access mining operations from outside the wilderness. The project development plan will be very similar to that used at the Troy mine. Rock Creek is designed to operate at a rate of 10,000 tpd, producing on average fify-two million pounds of copper, and six million ounces of silver per year.
The Rock Creek Deposit. The stratigraphy in the vicinity of the Rock Creek project is nearly identical to that found at the nearby Troy Mine. Bedrock exposed in the area consists primarily of the Revett and St. Regis Formations. In this area, Belt Supergroup rocks are gently folded and cut by several northwest-trending faults. In the vicinity of the deposit, two faults, the Copper Lake and Moran Faults, subdivide the deposit into three segments: The Chicago Peak, St. Paul and North Basin blocks. The more significant portion of the Rock Creek deposit forms an oblong body measuring at least 16,000 feet along the long axis by 7,200 feet along the short axis. The long axis of the copper and silver mineralization is generally oriented along the north-south direction. The copper and silver mineralization occurs within a very open anticlinal structure, plunging slightly to the northwest. The copper and silver mineralization occurs between elevations of 4,300 and 6,000 feet above mean sea level. Mineralization occurs primarily within quartzite units of the Lower Member of the Revett Formation and subordinately within siltite and argillite sub-units of the lower and middle Revett Formation. The Lower Member of the Revett has been locally subdivided into individual units named the “A” through “I” Quartzites (from top to bottom). The bulk of the mineralization is confined to one layer, but locally there may be up to four vertically stacked, potentially minable layers. The copper and silver mineralization ranges in thickness from six feet up to a maximum of 235 feet, near the Copper Lake Fault. The average thickness is approximately twenty-seven feet.
Current Rock Creek Resource Estimates (December 31, 2009)
Permitting History and Status After seventeen years of study and review, the USFS and DEQ jointly issued a Record of Decision in June 2003 approving our proposed plan of operation. The Record of Decision was based primarily on the findings detailed in the Final Environmental Impact Statement (“FEIS”) issued in September 2001 and a non-jeopardy biological opinion issued by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (“USFWS”) in May 2003. The FEIS followed six years of public and inter-agency review and comment (the initial draft EIS was issued in October 1995) with subsequent project development modifications and mitigations, as required under NEPA. As is disclosed more fully in the section of this report entitled “Legal Proceedings: the Record of Decision (and the biological opinion) is currently being challenged by several regional and national environmental organizations in federal district court in Montana.
Pending resolution of these legal challenges, Revett initiated the installation of support infrastructure at site in anticipation of a favorable ruling from the court. Approval was granted to construct the Evaluation Adit Support Facilities (Office, shop, dry, etc.) on private land and reclamation bonding was provided. The office and core storage building are now complete.
Approval from the USFS and MDEQ to proceed with the Evaluation Adit (and any disturbance on Federal lands) remains dependent on the following items:
Approval of the updated plan of operations for the evaluation adit and associated water quality monitoring plans by DEQ and the USFS, which was obtained in December 2008;
Execution of a memorandum of understanding with the USFS for implementation of the mitigation plan completed in March 2009, which has now been completed;
Transfer of 153 acres of land as required by the grizzly bear habitat mitigation plan, which is currently in process;
Funding of a mitigation trust fund. In December 2007 we signed a collection agreement with the Montana Fish, Wildlife and Parks. In February 2008 we contributed $250,000 to the fund and in June 2008 we contributed an additional $118,000. When the Company receives approval for Phase I construction, a payments of $ 2.3 million remains to be contributed to the mitigation trust fund; and
Provision of a reclamation bond, the amount of which is the subject of ongoing discussions with DEQ and USFS.
Project Development If we are allowed to proceed with our evaluation program at Rock Creek, we will install remaining infrastructure (including improvements to the access road, power transmission, and a water treatment facility) and construct an adit approximately 7,000 feet long into the deposit. After mineralization is reached (at approximately 3,500 feet), we will then focus on collecting data sufficient to support a full technical and economic feasibility study. This process is scheduled to take approximately two years and will include both direct development in mineralization and an infill drilling program to establish proven and probable reserves within a portion of the ore body.
Assuming the feasibility study is positive, and financing is available, we will then commence construction of the 10,000 tpd mine and process facility. The longest lead time item will be the development of two parallel adits (approximately 15,500 feet) driven uphill at a 10% grade into the deposit; one for conveyor haulage out of the mine and the other for services and access for men and materials. Underground construction (such as the installation of primary crushing facilities) will be relatively limited since mine development will largely be confined to the ore zone. The processing plant and surface infrastructure will use conventional technology and will be based on the experience we have gained from operating the Troy processing plant. Construction, including development of the service and conveyor adits, is estimated to take about three years.
Other Properties. The Company has acquired the mineral rights to three other exploration-stage prospects located in the vicinity of Troy or Rock Creek: the Adjacent Properties at Rock Creek (the “Adjacent Properties”), the JF Property at Troy (discussed above), and the Vermillion River and Sims Creek properties south east of Rock Creek. All of these projects are Revett Formation-hosted, stratabound silver and copper prospects.
The Adjacent Properties comprise three unpatented claim groups, Copper Gulch, Horizon Basin and Rock Peak, which cover lateral extensions of the Rock Creek deposit. The prior owners of the Adjacent Properties drilled 36 boreholes into the mineralization of these claims groups and estimated the mineral inventory of 48 million tons grading 0.54% Cu and 1.66 opt Ag in three satellite zones using a polygonal methodology. This mineral inventory and methodology has not been audited.
The JF property consists of one unpatented claim group located approximately one mile south of the Troy mine. ASARCO conducted a limited drilling program on the property over 20 years ago, consisting of twelve diamond drill holes totaling 12,183 feet and three smaller holes that tested the mineralization outcropping totaling 752 feet. The drill hole spacing ranged from 250 to 700 feet, and revealed copper-silver mineralization in a flat lying north-south trending zone approximately 800 feet wide and approximately one mile long, with an estimated average thickness of 27 feet. The JF deposit remains open on its east, west and south margins. We believe confirmation of a commercially mineable resource on the JF property could extend the life of the Troy mine by as much as five years.
The Vermillion River and the Sims Creek properties consist of two unpatented claim groups located approximately 25 miles southeast of Rock Creek. Limited drilling was conducted by the previous owner of the Vermillion River claim group. The Sims group is untested.
Glossary of Technical Terms. The following is a glossary of certain technical terms used in this report:
adit - a nearly horizontal opening by which a mineral deposit is evaluated or by which a mine is entered, drained or ventilated. An adit is akin to a tunnel, except that it is open only at one end, whereas a tunnel is open at each end.
Argillite - a very fine-grained terrigeneous sedimentary rock composed primarily of clay-rich material.
Argillite Siltite - a fine-grained sedimentary rock composed of clays and silt (fine sand).
beds - a sedimentary term describing the layering character of rocks that were layed down on a horizontal surface.
Belt Supergroup - a sub-division of Precambrian stratigraphic record which refers to rock strata ranging in age from about 1,325 million years to about 900 million years.
borehole - synonymous to a drill hole.
brittle-ductile - a fault that displays mechanical properties common to both brittle and ductile faults. Typically brittle-ductile faults show both plastic and brittle deformation features such as internal foliation, rupture plane and breccia development.
claims or mining claims - the right to explore a property for mineralization, and, if warranted, to develop the property and exploit the minerals.
Cretaceous - a subdivision of the Mesozoic Era, which refers to a geological period of the Earth’s history that began approximately 144 million years ago and ended approximately 65 millions years ago.
cross fault - a fault transecting other geological features at a sharp angle.
deposits - a descriptive term used to characterize an accumulation of a given material above background level, such as sand, gravel, or more commonly metals.
fault or faulting - a fracture in the earth's crust accompanied by a displacement of one side of the fracture with respect to the other and in a direction parallel to the fracture.
feasibility study - a comprehensive study of a deposit in which all geological, engineering, operating, economic and other relevant factors are considered in sufficient detail that it could reasonably serve as the basis for a final decision by a financial institution to finance the development of the deposit for mineral production.
gouge - clay-rich material typically found as infill in brittle fault zones.
grade - a term used to assign the metal content of a mineral deposit, such as percent per ton or ounces per ton.
indicated mineral resource - that part of a mineral resource for which quantity, grade or quality, densities, shape and physical characteristics can be estimated with a level of confidence sufficient to allow the appropriate application of technical and economic parameters, to support mine planning and evaluation of the economic viability of the deposit. The estimate is based on detailed and reliable exploration and testing information gathered through appropriate techniques from locations such as outcrops, trenches, pits, workings and drill holes that are spaced closely enough for geological and grade continuity to be reasonably assumed.
inferred mineral resource - that part of a mineral resource for which quantity and grade or quality can be estimated on the basis of geological evidence and limited sampling and reasonably assumed, but not verified, geological and grade continuity. The estimate is based on limited information and sampling gathered through appropriate techniques from locations such as outcrops, trenches, pits, workings and drill holes.
infill - a word used to characterize the material filling a cavity or void in the rocks, such as a fracture or a fault.
lode mining - the extraction of ore from a mineral deposit occurring in place.
measured mineral resource - that part of a mineral resource for which quantity, grade or quality, densities, shape, physical characteristics are so well established that they can be estimated with confidence sufficient to allow the appropriate application of technical and economic parameters, to support production planning and evaluation of the economic viability of the deposit. The estimate is based on detailed and reliable exploration, sampling and testing information gathered through appropriate techniques from locations such as outcrops, trenches, pits, workings and drill holes that are spaced closely enough to confirm both geological and grade continuity.
mineral reserve - the economically mineable part of a measured or indicated mineral resource demonstrated by at least a preliminary feasibility study. This study must include adequate information on mining, processing, metallurgical, economic and other relevant factors that demonstrate, at the time of reporting that economic extraction can be justified. A mineral reserve includes diluting materials and allowances for losses that may occur when the material is mined. Mineral reserves are sub-divided in order of increasing confidence into probable mineral reserves and proven mineral reserves.
mineral resource - a concentration or occurrence of natural, solid, inorganic or fossilized organic material in or on the Earth’s crust in such form and quantity and of such a grade or quality that it has reasonable prospects for economic extraction. The location, quantity, grade, geological characteristics and continuity of a mineral resource are known, estimated or interpreted from specific geological evidence and knowledge.
mineralization - accumulation above background of a specific the presence of minerals in a specific area or geological formation.
outcropping - exposure of bedrock on the surface.
patented claims - a claim that generally results in title to the property (including surface ownership and ownership of all other resources on the property) and the right to extract and exploit the minerals on the property residing with the locator of the claim or his transferee. Patented claims issued in the Cabinet Mountains Wilderness Area, where the Rock Creek project is located, do not extend to surface ownership.
Pleistocene - a subdivision of the Tertiary Era which refers to a geological period of the Earth’s history that began approximately 1.8 million years ago and ended approximately 11,000 years ago.
Proterozoic - geological period of the Earth's history that began 2.5 billion years ago and ended 543 million years ago.
Precambrian Era - a geologic period of the Earth’s history that ended approximately 570 million years ago.
probable mineral reserve - the economically mineable part of an indicated and, in some circumstances, a measured mineral resource demonstrated by at least a preliminary feasibility study. This study must include adequate information on mining, processing, metallurgical, economic and other relevant factors that demonstrate, at the time of reporting, that economic extraction can be justified.
proven mineral reserve - the economically mineable part of a measured mineral resource demonstrated by at least a preliminary feasibility study. This study must include adequate information on mining, processing, metallurgical, economic and other relevant factors that demonstrate, at the time of reporting, that economic extraction can be justified.
Quartzite - sedimentary rock that is composed primarily of quartz.
Revett Formation - sub-division of the Belt Supergroup in the Montana area.
stratabound - character of a geological feature that is said to be confined between two stratigraphic beds or layers. The Troy and Rock Creek Cu-Ag deposits are both stratabound deposits.
stratiform - character of a geological feature that is said to be concordant or sub-parallel to the stratigraphic layers.
stratigraphically - adjective from stratigraphic which characterize the successive layering of rocks.
sub-units - sub-division of a rock unit.
Tertiary - a subdivision of the Earth’s history that started approximately 65 million years ago and ended approximately 2 million years ago.
trend - the directional line of a rock bed or formation.
unpatented claim - a claim which results in the ownership of the property remaining in the United States government with the right to extract and exploit the minerals on the claims residing with the locator of the claim or his transferee.
Item 3.