Item 2. Properties.
We acquired our interests in Troy and Rock Creek in February 2005 through our acquisition of Revett Silver. Revett Silver, previously acquired Troy and Rock Creek from ASARCO and Kennecott in October 1999 and February 2000. Revett Silver holds Troy through its wholly-owned subsidiary Troy Mine Inc. and it holds Rock Creek through its wholly-owned subsidiary RC Resources Inc. Both properties are located in northwestern Montana. In 2012, we formed two additional subsidiaries of Revett Silver, Revett Exploration Inc., which holds the Sims Creek and Vermillion River mineral exploration claims located in Montana and Revett Holdings Inc., which holds the mitigation lands located in Montana formerly owned by RC Resources Inc.
Geology. The geology of the region is characterized by a thick sedimentary sequence, Proterozoic in age, containing four major conformable groups: the Lower Belt, Ravalli, Middle Belt Carbonate and Missoula Groups. The Troy and Rock Creek deposits are found within the Ravalli Group, specifically in the Revett Formation. This formation represents a mature, clastic, metamorphosed sandstone sequence of varying thicknesses with the sulfide mineralization being stratabound and disseminated; minor secondary enriched mineralization also occurs as fracture-fillings. Varying degrees of copper and silver mineralization occurs within favorable beds throughout the Revett Formation (in excess of 2,000 feet thick) as depicted in the following diagram.
Stratabound Copper-Silver Deposits. Base and precious metals mineralization is associated with sulfide dissemination within selected portions of the Precambrian Belt Supergroup, and more specifically within the Revett Formation. This type of mineralization, referred to as stratabound disseminated copper deposits, results from the migration of metal-bearing solutions through unconsolidated porous sediments prior to or during diagenesis. Considerable research has been undertaken to understand the genesis of these deposits and determine the fundamental controls on ore distribution. All of the deposits are similar and appear to exhibit lateral metal and mineral zoning which were interpreted to derive from primary ore-forming processes.
Copper-Silver Mineralization. Copper is found primarily in the sulfide minerals bornite and chalcocite, and most often occurs as fine-grained disseminations with concentrations of less than six percent of the total sulfide along fractures, veinlets and bedding planes. The main copper sulfide zones are the chalcocite-chlorite and the bornite-calcite zones. Significant amounts of silver are found in these zones within the copper sulfides and as enriched native silver. The thickness of these zones and their copper and silver grades are generally quite continuous across large areas, while locally there are segments that are thinner or of lower grade. Enveloping the chalcocite-chlorite and bornite-calcite zones are four additional concentric mineral zones that generally have no economic value. The chalcopyrite-ankerite zone is on the proximal side of the ore zones. The other three mineral zones are chalcopyrite-calcite, galena-calcite and pyrite-calcite which are sequentially located on the distal side of the ore zones.
Physiography, Climate and Infrastructure. The Cabinet Mountains form a northwest-trending mountain range of rugged relief. Maximum relief in the area is about 5,500 feet ranging from 2,200 feet in the valleys to 7,700 feet at the peaks. The area’s topography is controlled by the underlying rock types and structural features. Rocks in the area are relatively competent and resistant to erosion. The talus slopes and hogback ridges are usually formed by the more weather resistant quartzite and limestone rocks.
The major land-forming features were created by the Rocky Mountain uplift that was active approximately 60 million years ago, and were subsequently modified by shifts in the earth’s crust, alpine glaciation and alluvial deposits. Topography in the area of the projects has been influenced by Pleistocene-age glaciation. In the northern part of the project area, Pleistocene alpine glaciers carved the landscape into a series of cirques, and horns characterized by nearly vertical cliffs, ledges, steep colluvial slopes and talus fields. Pleistocene-age glaciation scoured some lower elevation areas and created a veneer of glacial deposits. Glacial lake bed deposit, silt and clay accumulations approximately 1,000 feet in thickness were deposited in the low-elevation drainages.
The climate of the area is characterized by a combination of Pacific maritime and continental climates. The maritime influences are strongest in the winter when relatively warm, moist air from the Pacific Ocean is cooled as it is lifted over the mountains and mixes with colder Arctic air moving south. This results in snowfall with significant accumulations in the higher elevations. Continental influences are more prevalent in the summer with thundershowers during May and June followed by hot, dry weather into mid-September. Annual precipitation totals vary from about 30 inches along the Clark Fork River valley to about 80 inches at the highest elevations in the Cabinet Mountains. Temperatures in the area are moderate. During the summer months, minimum night-time temperatures are in the 50 to 60 degrees Fahrenheit range. Winter cold waves occur, but mild weather is more common. The long-term annual average temperature is about 45 degrees Fahrenheit. The warmest month, July, averages 65 degrees Fahrenheit and the coldest month, January, averages 24 degrees Fahrenheit.
Troy Mine is located in Lincoln County, Montana which is sparsely inhabited with several rural communities. Libby, the county seat, is located approximately 32 miles northeast of the mine. The mine site is accessed by a seven mile paved mine road which connects to Montana Highway 56, a paved all-weather road connecting Montana Highway 200 to U.S. Highway 2. The copper-silver concentrates from Troy are trucked to a leased load out facility and rail siding in Libby for rail shipment to a port as designated by our concentrate purchaser. The mine is connected to the local power grid managed by a local electric cooperative.
Rock Creek is located in Sanders County, Montana, approximately fivc miles northeast of the town of Noxon. Thompson Falls, the county seat, is located approximately 37 miles southeast of Noxon along Montana Highway 200. An active railway line parallels Highway 200 and would connect directly to a copper-silver concentrate load out facility at the project site. Electrical service is available throughout the area including a high voltage power line which passes through the project area. Rock Creek is ideally situated from an infrastructure standpoint as all major services (power, highway, rail and water) are available within four miles of the planned project site.
Vermillion River and the Sims Creek properties consist of two unpatented claim groups located approximately 25 miles southeast of Rock Creek.
The local economy is based primarily on agriculture and tourism and, to a lesser extent, logging and the production of wood products. Unemployment in Lincoln and Sanders Counties is high relative to state and national unemployment rates.
Development History. The assets of the Company have a history dating back to 1963 when Bear Creek Mining Company, then a subsidiary of Kennecott Copper Corp. (“Kennecott”), itself now a subsidiary of Rio Tinto PLC, discovered stratabound copper and silver mineralization in the Cabinet Mountains of northwestern Montana. Over the next two decades, extensive exploration activity delineated both the Troy and Rock Creek deposits. The Troy and Rock Creek deposits share many similarities in geology, geochemistry, and physiology.
In 1973, ASARCO leased the Troy project from Kennecott and began permitting and development at Troy. Production commenced in August 1981 and continued until April 1993, when operations were placed on care and maintenance due mainly to low metal prices. During the twelve year period of production, Troy produced approximately 4.0 million ounces of silver and 34 million pounds of copper per year. A total of 44.4 million ounces of silver and 389.9 million pounds of copper were produced during this period. The mine and plant improvements were owned by ASARCO with Kennecott retaining a 25% net profits interest.
ASARCO also acquired the Rock Creek claims from Kennecott in 1973 and commenced an exploration program comprising 121 boreholes. According to a final exploration report prepared by ASARCO in 1989, the Rock Creek deposit contained a mineral resource estimated at 143.76 million tons grading an average of 0.68% copper and 1.65 ounces of silver per ton using a polygonal method.
In 1982 and 1983, U.S. Borax and Chemical Corporation, also now a subsidiary of Rio Tinto PLC (“U.S. Borax”), explored the lateral extensions of Rock Creek deposit on adjacent claims. In 1984 U.S. Borax estimated the mineral inventory of 48 million tons grading 0.54% Cu and 1.66 opt Ag in three satellite zones (the “Adjacent Properties”) using a polygonal methodology. This mineral inventory and methodology has not been audited. Revett Silver acquired these Adjacent Properties in 2000 as part of the Kennecott transaction.
Revett Silver subsequently acquired the mineral rights to two other exploration stage stratabound copper/silver prospects located south of, and on trend with Rock Creek, these being the Vermilion River and Sims Creek projects.
In 2010 we acquired a total 152 unpatented claims from Kennecott through our Troy Mine, Inc. second tier subsidiary. These claims are located east and north of Troy and expand our claim holdings by approximately 3,000 acres, providing important new ground for exploration that could potentially extend the life of the mine.
In 2011 we acquired eight unpatented claims, known as the JE claims, and staked an additional 200 unpatented claims, known as the Lost Girl claims through our RC Resources Inc. second tier subsidiary. These claims are located northwest of Rock Creek and expand our property position in the vicinity by approximately 4,000 acres.
Troy Mine. Troy is an underground “room and pillar” silver and copper mine with a conventional flotation mill located in Lincoln County, Montana. ASARCO developed the mine in 1980 and 1981, at a cost of approximately $100 million. Troy comprises 24 patented lode-mining claims and approximately 510 unpatented lode-mining claims. We re-opened Troy in December 2004 at a cost of approximately $8 million and have operated it since then. Copper concentrate high in silver content is shipped by rail from a load out facility in Libby, Montana under a renewable long term contract. The Troy concentrates typically contain 35% to 40% copper and 80 to 120 troy ounces of silver per ton. The Troy concentrates are considered high grade and clean with no deleterious elements.
The Troy Deposit. Economically significant mineralization occurs at Troy within a number of distinct stratigraphically adjacent quartzite sub-units. The Upper, Middle and Lower Quartzites are located within the Upper Member of the Revett Formation and the “A”, “C” and “I” Beds are contained in the Lower Member of the Revett Formation. In plan view, the stratiform deposit measures approximately 7,500 feet by 1,800 feet. In the vicinity of the mine, the stratigraphy is generally flat with a shallow dip of four degrees (7% grade). There are two styles of faults in the mine area. Northwest trending faults are brittle-ductile structures with common clay gouge as exemplified by the East Fault. The East Fault displays a close spatial relationship with the copper-silver mineralization. The second type of faults are late brittle and generally open faults with sandy infill, as typified by the Cross Fault which separates the north and south ore bodies. These faults trend east northeast to east southeast and have steep southerly dips. These faults are late structures offsetting the mineralized sedimentary units. The Cross Fault also offsets the East Fault.
The Troy deposit has been subdivided into three separate mining areas; the North Ore Body, South Ore Body and the East Ore Body, delineated primarily by the Cross Fault and the East Fault, which dissect the mineralized quartzite sub-units. The main mining quartzite sub-unit has been the middle quartzite which averages approximately sixty feet thick. The Lower and Middle Quartzite sub-units are mined in the North Ore Body and South Ore Body, and the Lower and Middle Quartzite while the Middle and Upper Quartzite sub-units are mined in the East Ore Body. Both the A Beds and the C Beds are mined in the South Ore Body. No economic copper and silver mineralization is delineated in the Upper Quartzite sub-unit west of the East Fault, nor in the Lower Quartzite sub-unit east of the East Fault which is the eastern boundary of the North Ore Body and the South Ore Body. The South Fault delineates the southern margin of the South Ore Body. None of the other lateral ore boundaries represent hard geological boundaries.
Troy Reserve Estimates (December 31, 2012)
The following key factors were used in determining the foregoing reserves:
Key Factors / Parameters Silver Copper Other/Total
Metal Prices (prior 3 year averages) $28.83 $3.67
NSR Cutoff (Incl. Royalty)
$29.99 / Ton
Mining Recovery
100%
Dilution (Incl. Reserve Calc.)
0%
Metallurgical Recoveries - LOM Avg. 85.86% 84.18%
[The balance of this page has been intentionally left blank.]
Troy Resources Estimate (December 31, 2012)
1) Resources listed for the JF Property are a historical estimate within the meaning of National Instrument 43-101 of Canadian Securities Administrators (“NI 43-101”) and are based upon a 1992 ASARCO internal report of “11 million tons grading 0.40% Cu and 1.40 opt Ag”. The ASARCO report was prepared before the adoption of NI 43-101 and uses categories other than the ones set out in section 1.2 of NI 43-101. We consider it to be relevant, even though no “Qualified Person”, within the meaning of NI 43-101 has done sufficient work to classify the historical estimate as current mineral resources. We do not treat ASARCO’s historical estimate as current mineral resources and will not do so unless and until we have undertaken additional steps to validate ASARCO’s drilling data either by re-assaying the prior drill core or by supplementing it with new drilling data.
The JF property consists of an unpatented claim group located approximately one mile south of Troy Mine. ASARCO conducted a limited drilling program on the property over 20 years ago, consisting of twelve diamond drill holes totaling 12,183 feet and three smaller holes that tested the mineralization out cropping totaling 752 feet. The drill hole spacing ranged from 250 to 700 feet, and revealed copper-silver mineralization in a flat lying north-south trending zone approximately 800 feet wide and approximately one mile long, with an estimated average thickness of 27 feet. The JF deposit remains open on its east, west, and south margins.
Our reserve and mineral resource estimates were calculated by Larry Erickson, P. Eng., an employee of the Company. Reserve and mineral resource estimates conform to Canadian Standards on Mineral Resources and Mineral Reserves Definitions and Guidelines (“CIM Guidelines”) and NI 43-101 requirements. A ”mineral reserve” is the economically mineable part of a measured or indicated mineral resource demonstrated by at least a preliminary feasibility study. The study must include adequate information on mining, processing, metallurgical, economic and other relevant factors that demonstrate, at the time of reporting, that economic extraction can be justified. A mineral reserve includes diluting materials and allowances for losses that may occur when the material is mined. Mineral resource has been subdivided into “measured and indicated” and “inferred” classifications, and mineral reserve has been subdivided into “proven and probable” classifications following the CIM Guidelines. United States investors are cautioned that while the terms “measured mineral resources” and “indicated mineral resources” are recognized by Canadian regulations, the terms are not recognized by the SEC. The SEC describes the equivalent as “mineralized material”. The estimation of mineral resources involves greater uncertainty as to their existence and economic feasibility than the estimation of proven and probable reserves. United States investors are cautioned not to assume that any part or all of the mineral resources will ever be converted into mineral reserves. United States investors are also cautioned that while the term “inferred mineral resources” is recognized and required by Canadian regulations, it is not recognized by the SEC. The estimation of inferred mineral resources involves a great amount of uncertainty as to their existence and economic feasibility. United States investors are cautioned not to assume that any part or all of the mineral resources will ever deemed to be mineral reserves.
Operations. Since recommencing commercial operations in early 2005, we have produced ore at the rate of approximately 3,500 to 4,000 tons per day. The majority of our mine plan is focused on the remaining 30 to 40 foot thick East Ore Body, Lower Quartzites, A Bed, C Bed and I Bed areas.
Note: Cash costs are given in dollars per short ton and include all direct site costs, treatment, freight, refining and royalty costs. Cash cost per ton is a non-GAAP measure, however we consider it to be a well understood and widely used performance benchmark in the mining industry.
Our production rate in 2012 was hampered by difficult ground conditions inside the mine and unusually high inflow of water in the spring. In mid-December 2012, we suspended underground mining operations at Troy because of unstable and unsafe ground conditions in the mine. We have installed geophone monitoring devices and are working with MSHA to inspect and develop alternate travel and haulage routes that bypass the affected areas of the mine. We expect to resume operations in the second quarter of 2013.
Ongoing Troy Exploration. We have been exploring beneath and adjacent to the current workings at Troy Mine for the past several drilling seasons. Our primary target has been stratabound copper/silver mineralization located in the I-Beds of the Lower Revett Formation, approximately 1,200 feet stratagraphically below the main ore body at the mine. ASARCO had initially identified mineralization in these beds during drill programs in the 1980s but did not follow up with subsequent drilling as metal prices began to fall in the early 1990s.
Since the Rock Creek Project is hosted in the upper quartzite units of the Lower Revett Formation, specifically the A, C, E & G-Beds, we believe the potential for ore grade mineralization exists in these and other beds. Our drilling not only confirmed mineralization in the I-Beds but also resulted in the discovery of mineable reserves hosted in the I Beds, C Beds and A Beds directly beneath the current workings. We also plan to continue development of access to the I Bed area in 2013. This access development is expected to take approximately 24 months to complete. Drilling targeting expansion of the I Beds and other areas will continue in the 2013 drilling program.
Generalized Cross-Section of the Troy Mine Area Looking East
In addition to the I-Bed mineralization beneath the current Troy workings, ASARCO discovered and delineated the JF copper/silver deposit to the south of the mine. ASARCO reported a mineral reserve of 11 million tons grading 1.4 ounces per ton of silver and 0.4% copper. We completed the first phase of drilling and re-assaying of existing core from the ASARCO drill program on the JF property in 2011 and plan to continue a confirmatory drill program on the area between Troy Mine and JF as well as the JF deposit area in 2013. Although the re-assaying of existing core confirmed ASARCO results on the JF property, due to down-hole deviation, the four angle holes drilled in 2012 did not reach the area of mineralization.
Our longer range goals are to step out from the immediate mine area to explore for additional resources that would allow us to use our existing mine and processing infrastructure. There are promising mineralization trends to the north and east of the Troy Mine, which will be our initial targets. We have been expanding our claim holdings in these areas as well as reviewing prior geophysical and drill data.
Mine Reclamation Plan. We have posted a performance bond to help meet our reclamation and remediation obligations at Troy once mining operations are concluded. The amount of the bond was $12.9 million as of December 31, 2012, which included $6.5 million in a restricted cash account. A revised reclamation plan was issued by DEQ and the Forest Service during the second half of 2012. In 2012, the estimated end of the operating life of Troy was extended from 2019 to 2020 and the Company’s estimated final reclamation costs changed due to the new Troy reclamation requirements issued by the regulatory agencies. This resulted in a decrease of the reclamation and remediation liability of $3.0 million for 2012 with a corresponding decrease to operating costs because the associated asset retirement obligation asset had a zero balance. That said, the revised reclamation bonding requirements have yet been issued and may be higher than current levels. At December 31, 2012, we had accrued $5.6 million liability relating to our reclamation and remediation obligations at Troy.
Rock Creek. Rock Creek is a large development-stage stratabound copper and silver deposit located in Sanders County, Montana. The project comprises 99 patented lode-mining claims, 370 unpatented lode-mining claims, 5 tunnel site claims and 85 mill site claims. The patented claims lying within the Cabinet Mountain Wilderness Area convey mineral rights only and the claims lying outside the wilderness area convey both mineral and surface rights. The patented claims were legally surveyed in 1983 and occupy an area of approximately 1,809 acres. All of the Rock Creek mining claims are in good standing. The project also includes approximately 754 acres of fee land associated with project facilities.
The project is approximately sixteen air miles or 45 road miles southeast from the Troy Mine. While the ore body lies predominantly under the Cabinet Mountain Wilderness Area, we will access it and conduct mining operations from outside the area through one or more adits or tunnels. The project development plan will be very similar to that used at Troy Mine. Preliminary designs for Rock Creek contemplate operations at a rate of 10,000 tpd, producing on average fifty-two million pounds of copper and six million ounces of silver per year.
The Rock Creek Deposit. The stratigraphy in the vicinity of the Rock Creek Project is nearly identical to that found at the nearby Troy Mine. Bedrock exposed in the area consists primarily of the Revett and St. Regis Formations. In this area, Belt Supergroup rocks are gently folded and cut by several northwest-trending faults. In the vicinity of the deposit, two faults, the Copper Lake and Moran Faults, subdivide the deposit into three segments: The Chicago Peak, St. Paul and North Basin blocks. The more significant portion of the Rock Creek deposit forms an oblong body measuring at least 16,000 feet along the long axis by 7,200 feet along the short axis. The long axis of the copper and silver mineralization is generally oriented along the north-south direction. The copper and silver mineralization occurs within an anticlinal structure, plunging slightly to the northwest. The copper and silver mineralization occurs between elevations of 4,300 and 6,000 feet above mean sea level. Mineralization occurs primarily within quartzite units of the Lower Member of the Revett Formation and subordinately within siltite and argillite sub-units of the lower and middle Revett Formation. The Lower Member of the Revett has been locally subdivided into the same individual units as Troy named the “A” through “I” Quartzite Beds (from top to bottom). The bulk of the mineralization is confined to one layer, but locally there may be up to four vertically stacked, potentially minable layers. The copper and silver mineralization ranges in thickness from 6 feet up to a maximum of 235 feet, near the Copper Lake Fault. The average thickness is approximately 27 feet.
Rock Creek Resource Estimates (2004)
1.
Mineral Resources have been categorized in accordance with the classifications defined by the CIM.
2.
The estimated mineral resources are based upon a technical report (the “ Rock Creek Report”) dated May 7, 2004, amended as of January 27, 2005, prepared by SRK Consulting, Toronto in accordance with NI 43-101. The estimates were prepared and are based upon a cut-off grade of U.S.$ 10.00 net smelter return per ton calculated at US$ 7.00/oz Ag and US$1.00/lb Cu.
The Adjacent Properties at Rock Creek are comprised of three unpatented claim groups, Copper Gulch, Horizon Basin and Rock Peak, which cover lateral extensions of the Rock Creek deposit. The prior owners of the Adjacent Properties drilled 36 boreholes into the mineralization of these claims groups and estimated the mineral inventory of 48 million tons grading 0.54% Cu and 1.66 opt Ag in three satellite zones using a polygonal methodology.
1)
Resources listed for the Adjacent Properties at Rock Creek are a “historical estimate” within the meaning of NI 43-101 and are based upon a 1984, U.S. Borax internal report titled an “Economic Analysis of the Rock Peak Project” by W. McGregor & M.D. Regan. This historical mineral resource estimate was prepared before the adoption of NI 43-101 and uses categories other than the ones set out in section 1.2 of NI 43-101. We consider it relevant even though no ”qualified person” within the meaning of NI 43-101 has done sufficient work to classify the historical estimate as current mineral resources. We do not treat U.S. Borax’s historical estimate as current mineral resources and will not do so unless and until we have undertaken additional steps to validate U.S. Borax’s drilling data either by re-assaying the prior drill core or by supplementing it with new drilling data. Consequently, you should not rely upon U.S. Borax’s historical estimate.
Permitting History and Status. As previously noted in this report, DEQ and the Forest Service jointly issued a Record of Decision in June 2003 approving our proposed plan of operation at Rock Creek. The Record of Decision was based on the final EIS issued in 2001 and a non-jeopardy Biological Opinion issued by the USFWS in May 2003. The final EIS followed six years of public and inter-agency review and comment with subsequent project development modifications and mitigations, as required under NEPA. The Record of Decision was challenged by a number of national and regional conservation groups, and in May 2010 both the Record of Decision and final EIS were remanded back to the Forest Service by the federal district court for completion of a supplemental EIS to address specified NEPA deficiencies. All challenges to the Biological Opinion were dismissed by the federal district court, a decision that was subsequently upheld by the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals in November 2011.
Project Development. We have constructed an office and core storage building at the Rock Creek site. Once we receive all of the necessary permits, we will install remaining infrastructure (including improvements to the access road, power transmission and a water treatment facility) and construct an adit approximately 7,000 feet long to gain access into the deposit. After mineralization is reached (at approximately 3,500 feet), we will collect data to support a full technical and economic feasibility study. This process is expected to take approximately two years and will include both direct development in mineralization and an infill drilling program with a view to establishing proven and probable reserves within a portion of the ore body.
Assuming the feasibility study is positive, and financing is available, we will then commence construction of the 10,000 tons per day mine and process facility. The longest lead time item will be the development of two parallel adits (approximately 15,500 feet) driven uphill at a 10% grade into the deposit; one for conveyor haulage out of the mine and the other for services and access for men and materials. Other underground construction in waste rock (such as the installation of primary crushing facilities) will be relatively limited since mine development for ore haulage will largely be confined to the ore zone. The processing plant and surface infrastructure will use conventional technology and will be based on the experience we have gained from operating the Troy processing plant. Construction, including development of the service and conveyor adits, is estimated to take about three years.
Item 3.