Item 2. Properties.
The Troy and Rock Creek Assets. Our principal assets are Troy and Rock Creek, both located in northwestern Montana. We acquired these assets in February 2005 through acquisition of Revett Silver, which had earlier acquired them from ASARCO and Kennecott. We hold the Troy assets through Troy Mine, Inc., one of our second-tier operating subsidiaries. We hold the Rock Creek assets through RC Resources Inc., another of our second-tier operating subsidiaries.
Other Mining Assets. We also hold interests in the following additional mining assets:
•
Additional Troy Claims -- We acquired 152 unpatented claims located east and north of Troy Mine from Kennecott in 2010 through Troy Mine, Inc. These claims expanded our holdings by approximately 3,000 acres and provided important new areas for exploration that could potentially extend Troy’s mine life.
•
The Adjacent Properties - These assets comprise three satellite zones that extend laterally from Rock Creek. We acquired them in conjunction with our purchase of Rock Creek and hold them through RC Resources Inc.
•
Vermillion River and Sims Claim Groups. These claim groups comprise approximately 1,660 acres and are located approximately 25 miles southeast of Rock Creek. We acquired the claims in 1999 and transferred them to Revett Exploration, Inc. in 2012. The Vermillion River claim group’s prior owners conducted some limited drilling. The Sims group is untested.
•
The JE and Lost Girl Claims - We acquired eight unpatented claims, known as the JE claims, and staked an additional 200 unpatented claims, known as the Lost Girl claims, in 2011. All of these claims are located northwest of Rock Creek and expand our property position at the project by approximately 4,000 acres. We hold these claims through RC Resources Inc.
•
Rock Creek Mitigation Lands - We acquired approximately 673 acres of fee land that will be used primarily for mitigation as wildlife habitat and as a grizzly bear migration corridor as the project is developed. We hold these lands through Revett Holdings, Inc., another of our second-tier operating subsidiaries.
Geology. The geology of the Troy and Rock Creek areas is characterized by a thick sedimentary Proterozoic-age sequence comprised of five major conformable zones or groups: the Lower Belt Group; the Ravalli Group; the Middle Belt Group; the Carbonate Group; and the Missoula Group. The Troy and Rock Creek deposits are found in the Ravalli Group, specifically in the Revett Formation, a mature, clastic, metamorphosed sandstone sequence of varying thickness lying within the group. Copper and silver sulfide mineralization occurs in varying degrees in quartzite subunits or beds throughout the formation. The mineralization is stratabound and disseminated, the result of migrating metal-bearing solutions through unconsolidated porous sediments prior to or during diagenesis; minor additional enriched mineralization also occurs as fracture-fillings. All of the mineral-bearing beds contain lateral metal and mineral zones that are the result of primary ore-forming processes. These beds are depicted in the following diagram.
Copper is found in the Revett Formation in bornite and chalcocite, both sulfide minerals, and most often occurs as fine-grained disseminations with concentrations of less than six percent of the total sulfide along fractures, veinlets and bedding planes. The main copper sulfide zones are the chalcocite-chlorite and the bornite-calcite zones. Significant amounts of silver are found in zones within the copper sulfides and as enriched native silver. The thickness of these zones and their copper and silver grades are generally quite continuous across large areas, although there are segments that are thinner or of lower grade. Four additional concentric mineral zones that generally have no economic value envelop the chalcocite-chlorite and bornite-calcite zones: the chalcopyrite-ankerite zone is on the proximal side of the ore zones; the other three mineral zones, the chalcopyrite-calcite zone, the galena-calcite zone and pyrite-calcite zone, are sequentially located on the distal side of the ore zones.
Physiography, Climate and Infrastructure. The Cabinet Mountains are a rugged, 35 mile long range of glaciated peaks and valleys that extend southeast from a point near Libby, Montana. Altitudes vary from 2,200 feet in the valley floors to 7,700 feet at the peaks. The area’s topography is defined by the underlying rock types and structural features. The talus slopes and hogback ridges of the area are typically comprised of the more erosion resistant quartzite and limestone rocks.
The major land-forming features in the range were created by the Rocky Mountain uplift approximately 60 million years ago, and were subsequently modified by shifts in the earth’s crust, alpine glaciation and alluvial deposits. The northern portions of the range, including the Troy and Rock Creek areas, were influenced by Pleistocene-era alpine glaciers that carved the landscape into a series of cirques and horns characterized by nearly vertical cliffs, ledges, steep colluvial slopes and talus fields. These glaciers also scoured some lower elevation areas and deposited a veneer of glacial deposits, silt and clay in the low-elevation drainages averaging approximately 1,000 feet in thickness.
The climate of the area is characterized by a combination of Pacific maritime and continental climates. The maritime influences are strongest in the winter, when relatively warm, moist air from the Pacific Ocean is cooled as it is lifted over the mountains and mixes with colder Arctic air moving south. This results in snowfall with significant accumulations in the higher elevations. Continental influences are more prevalent in the summer with thundershowers during May and June, followed by hot, dry weather into mid-September. Annual precipitation totals vary from about 30 inches along the Clark Fork River valley to about 80 inches at the highest elevations in the Cabinet Mountains. Temperatures in the area are moderate. During the summer months, minimum night-time temperatures are in the 50 to 60 degrees Fahrenheit range. Winter cold waves occur, but mild weather is more common. The long-term annual average temperature is about 45 degrees Fahrenheit. The warmest month, July, averages 65 degrees Fahrenheit and the coldest month, January, averages 24 degrees Fahrenheit.
The Troy Mine is located in Lincoln County, Montana which is sparsely inhabited with several rural communities. The town of Troy is located 15 miles north of the mine and Libby, the county seat, is located approximately 32 miles northeast of the mine. The mine site is accessed by a seven mile paved mine road which connects to Montana Highway 56, a paved all-weather road connecting Montana Highway 200 to U.S. Highway 2. The copper-silver concentrates from Troy Mine are trucked to a leased load out facility and rail siding in Libby for rail shipment to a port as designated by our concentrate purchaser. The mine is connected to a power grid managed by a local electric cooperative.
The Rock Creek project is located in Sanders County, Montana, approximately five miles northeast of the town of Noxon. Thompson Falls, the county seat, is located approximately 37 miles southeast of Noxon along Montana Highway 200. High voltage electrical power, rail and highway transportation, water and other necessary infrastructure are available within four miles of the project site.
Development History. Development history at Troy and Rock Creek date back to 1963, when the Bear Creek Mining Company, a subsidiary of Kennecott Copper Corp., discovered stratabound copper and silver mineralization in the Cabinet Mountains. Over the next two decades, extensive exploration activity delineated both the Troy and Rock Creek deposits. The Troy and Rock Creek deposits share many similarities in geology, geochemistry and physiology. In 1973, ASARCO leased the Troy project from Kennecott and began permitting and development of the Troy mine. Production commenced in August 1981 and continued until April 1993, when operations were placed on care and maintenance due to low metal prices. The mine produced an average of approximately 4.0 million ounces of silver and 34 million pounds of copper during each of the twelve years ASARCO operated it.
ASARCO also acquired the Rock Creek claims from Kennecott in 1973, and thereafter commenced an exploration program comprising 121 boreholes. According to a final exploration report prepared in 1989 using polygonal methodology, the Rock Creek deposit contains an estimated mineral resource of 144million tons of ore having an average copper grade of 0.68% and an average silver grade of 1.65 ounces per ton.
Troy.
The Deposit Significant mineralization occurs in a number of distinct stratigraphic quartzite subunits or beds at Troy Mine. As previously noted in this report, the upper, middle and lower quartzite beds are located within the Upper Revett portion of the formation and the A, C and I Beds 14 are located in the Lower Revett portion of the formation. The deposit measures approximately 7,500 feet by 1,800 feet and is generally flat in the vicinity of the mine, with a shallow dip of four degrees, the equivalent of a 7% grade.
Three styles of faults are common in the mine area: northwest-trending faults, typified by the East Fault, having brittle-ductile structures with common clay gouge; east-northeast to east-southeast trending faults, typified by the Cross Fault, which are high-angle reverse faults that separate the north and south ore bodies and have a zone with clay gouge and breccia; and east northeast trending structures, typified by the South Fault, which are late brittle and generally open faults with sandy infills and generally offset the mineralized sedimentary units.
The Troy deposit has been subdivided into three separate mining areas, the North Ore Body the South Ore Body and the East Ore Body. The bodies are principally delineated by the Cross Fault and the East Fault, which dissect the mineralized quartzite bends. The East Fault delineates the east boundary of the North Ore Body and the South Ore Body. The ore bodies are defined by assay-based determinations of economic copper and silver mineralization, zonation and outcrop on the north, west and south.
Mining operations in the North Ore Body and the South Ore Body has historically been confined to the Lower and Middle Quartzite subunits, and to a lesser extent, to the A and C Beds in the South Ore Body. Mining operations in the East Ore Body has historically been confined to the Middle and Upper Quartzite subunits. No economic copper and silver mineralization has been delineated in the Upper Quartzite subunit west of the East Fault or in the Lower Quartzite subunit east of the East Fault. Our mining operations at Troy will likely be confined to the C Bed and the deeper I Bed for the immediate future when we resume operations.
The following cross sectional view of Troy illustrates the location of these ore bodies, the quartzite subunits that we have historically mined, and the A and C and I Beds that we will mine once we complete the construction of the decline.
Reserves and Mineral Resource Estimates. The following tables set forth our estimates of Troy’s reserves and mineral resources, as of the dates indicated. A “mineral reserve” is the economically mineable part of a measured or indicated mineral resource demonstrated by at least a preliminary feasibility study. The study must include adequate 15 information on mining, processing, metallurgical, economic and other relevant factors that demonstrate, at the time of reporting, that economic extraction can be justified, including dilutive materials and allowances for losses that may occur when the material is mined. Mineral reserves are subdivided into “proven and probable” classifications. “Mineral resources” do not have to be demonstrated by a preliminary feasibility study and are therefore much less certain. Mineral resources are subdivided into “measured and indicated” and “inferred” classifications.
The Troy reserve estimates conform to SEC guidelines, Canadian Standards on Mineral Resources and Mineral Reserves Definitions and Guidelines (“CIM Guidelines”) and National Instrument 43-101 of Canadian Securities Administrators (“NI 43-101”) requirements, and were calculated by Larry Erickson, P. Eng., who is employed by us. The Troy resource estimates, also calculated by Mr. Erickson, conform to CIM Guidelines and NI 43-101, but do not conform to SEC guidelines. The SEC does not recognize mineral resources, only reserves.
Investors should not assume that any portion of our mineral resources will ever be converted into proven reserves or probable reserves.
Current Troy Ore Reserve Estimates (January 31, 2015)
The following key factors were used in determining the foregoing reserves:
Key Factors / Parameters Silver Copper Other/Total
Metal Prices (prior 5 year averages) $ 24.69 $ 3.35
NSR Cutoff (Incl. Royalty)
$ 29.99
Mining Recovery
100%
Dilution (incl. reserve calc.)
0%
Metallurgical Recoveries - LOM Avg. 86% 85%
Current Troy Ore Resource Estimates (January 31, 2015)
Operations. The following table sets forth information concerning Troy’s production for each of the five years ended December 31, 2014. As noted elsewhere in this report, we suspended mining operations at Troy in December 2012 due to unstable ground conditions in the mine, and placed the mine on care and maintenance in January 2015 due to low metals prices. Cash costs are shown in dollars per short ton and include all direct site costs and treatment, freight, refining and royalty costs. Cash cost per ton is a non-GAAP measure, however we consider it to be a well understood and widely used performance benchmark in the mining industry.
Ongoing Exploration. We have been exploring beneath and adjacent to the current workings at Troy for the past several drilling seasons. Our primary target has been stratabound copper and silver mineralization located in the I Bed of the lower portion of the Revett Formation, approximately 1,200 feet below the main ore body at the mine. ASARCO had initially identified mineralization in this bed during drill programs in the 1980s but did not follow up with subsequent drilling due to lower metals prices. We believe ore grade mineralization exists in this and other beds within the Lower Revett Formation, based on the results of our exploratory drilling and the understanding of the upper quartzite units of the Formation. We completed the first phase of drilling and re-assaying of ASARCO’s existing core in 2013, and plan to continue a confirmatory drill program once we resume commercial mining operations at Troy. Our longer range goals are to step out from the immediate Troy Mine area to explore for additional resources that would extend the mine life at Troy and allow us to continue to use existing mine and processing infrastructure. We have initially targeted promising mineralization trends lying north and east of Troy Mine. We have expanded our claim holdings in these areas, as well as reviewing prior geophysical and drill data.
Mine Reclamation Plan. Once we conclude mining operations at Troy, we will be obligated to reclaim and remediate the area in accordance with a revised reclamation plan issued by Montana DEQ and the U.S. Forest Service in late 2012. Our current bond of $12.9 million is covered by a surety bond and restricted cash account of $6.5million. We do not presently know whether the revised reclamation plan will increase our bonding costs. We have accrued a discounted liability of $4.7 million as of December 31, 2014 relating to these obligations.
Rock Creek.
The Deposit. The Rock Creek deposit is a large development-stage stratabound copper and silver deposit located in Sanders County, Montana. The project comprises 99 patented lode-mining claims, 370 unpatented lode-mining claims, five tunnel site claims, 85 mill site claims and 754 acres of fee land associated with project facilities. The patented claims lying within the Cabinet Mountain Wilderness Area convey mineral rights and other limited surface rights; while the patented claims lying outside the wilderness area convey both mineral and surface rights and title. The patented claims occupy an area of approximately 1,809 acres. All of the Rock Creek mining claims are in good standing.
The project is approximately sixteen air miles or 45 five road miles southeast of the Troy mine. We will access the ore body through an adit that will originate outside the Cabinet Mountain Wilderness area, near the valley floor. The project development plan will be very similar to that used at Troy. We expect to mine ore at the rate of 10,000 tons per day and produce an average of 52 million pounds of copper and 6 million ounces of silver per year.
Mineral Resources. The stratigraphy in the vicinity of Rock Creek is nearly identical to that found at Troy. Bedrock exposed in the area consists primarily of the Revett and St. Regis Formations. In this area, Belt Supergroup rocks are gently folded and cut by several northwest-trending faults. In the vicinity of the deposit, two faults, the Copper Lake and Moran Faults, subdivide the deposit into three distinct segments: the Chicago Peak, St. Paul and North Basin blocks. The more significant portion of the Rock Creek deposit forms an oblong body measuring at least 16,000 feet by 7,200 feet. The long axis of the copper and silver mineralization is generally oriented in a north-south direction and occurs between elevations of 4,300 feet and 6,000 feet above means sea level within an anticlinal structure that plunges slightly to the northwest. As with Troy, mineralization occurs primarily within quartzite subunits of the Lower portion of the Revett Formation and subordinately within siltite and argillite subunits of the lower and middle portions of the formation. The Lower portion of the Revett Formation is locally subdivided into the same subunits as Troy, namely the A through I Beds. (See the graph at page 8 of this report.) The bulk of the mineralization is confined to one layer, but locally there may be up to four vertically stacked, potentially minable layers. The copper and silver mineralization ranges in thickness from six feet to a maximum of 235 feet near the Copper Lake Fault. The average thickness is 27 feet.
Mineral Resource Estimates. The following tables set forth our estimates of Rock Creek’s and the Adjacent Properties’ mineral resources as of the dates indicated. The Rock Creek estimates are based upon a technical report dated May 7, 2004, amended as of January 27, 2005, prepared by SRK Consulting, Toronto and Dr. Jean-Francois Couture, on behalf of SRK, the designated qualified person, in accordance with NI 43-101. The estimates are based upon a cut-off grade of $10.00 net smelter return per ton calculated at $1.00 per pound for copper $ 7.00 per ounce for silver.
The Adjacent Properties estimates are a “resource estimate” within the meaning of NI 43-101 and are based upon a 1984 U.S. Borax internal report titled an “Economic Analysis of the Rock Peak Project” by W. McGregor & M.D. Regan. This historical mineral resource estimate was prepared before the adoption of NI 43-101 and uses categories other than the ones set out in NI 43-101. We consider it relevant even though no ”qualified person” within the meaning of NI 43-101 has done sufficient work to classify the historical estimate as current mineral resources. We do not treat U.S. Borax’s historical estimate as current mineral resources and will not do so unless and until we have undertaken additional steps to validate U.S. Borax’s drilling data either by re-assaying the prior drill core or by supplementing it with new drilling data. Consequently, you should not rely upon U.S. Borax’s historical estimate.
As previously noted in this report, “mineral resources” do not have to be demonstrated by a preliminary feasibility study and are therefore much less certain than reserves. And although the resource estimates conform to CIM Guidelines and NI 43-101 requirements, they do not conform to SEC guidelines. The SEC does not recognize mineral resources, only reserves.
Investors should not assume that any portion of our mineral resources will ever be converted into proven reserves or probable reserves.
Rock Creek Resource Estimates (2004)
The Adjacent Properties at Rock Creek are comprised of three unpatented claim groups, Copper Gulch, Horizon Basin and Rock Peak, which cover lateral extensions of the Rock Creek deposit. The prior owners of the Adjacent Properties drilled 36 boreholes into the mineralization of these claims groups and estimated the mineral inventory of 48 million tons grading 0.54% copper and 1.66 ounces per ton of silver in three satellite zones using a polygonal methodology.
Permitting History and Status. As previously noted in this report, Montana DEQ and the U.S. Forest Service jointly issued a Record of Decision in June 2003 approving our proposed plan of operation at Rock Creek. The Record of Decision was based on the Final EIS (“FEIS”) issued in 2001 and a non-jeopardy Biological Opinion issued by the USFWS in May 2003. The FEIS followed six years of public and inter-agency review and comment with subsequent project development modifications and mitigations, as required under NEPA. The Record of Decision was challenged by a number of national and regional conservation groups, and in May 2010 both the Record of Decision and Final EIS were remanded back to the Forest Service by the Federal District Court in Montana for completion of a Supplemental EIS to address specified NEPA deficiencies. All of the challenges to the Biological Opinion were dismissed by the Federal District Court in Montana, a decision that was subsequently upheld by the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals in November 2011.
Project Development. We have constructed an office and core storage building at the Rock Creek site. Once we receive all of the necessary permits, we will install remaining infrastructure (including improvements to the access road, power transmission and a water treatment facility) and construct an adit approximately 7,000 feet long to gain access into the deposit. After mineralization is reached (at approximately 3,500 feet), we will collect data to support a full technical and economic feasibility study. This process is expected to take approximately two years and will include both direct development in mineralization and an infill drilling program with a view to establishing proven and probable reserves within a portion of the ore body. Geo-technical and hydrologic data will also be acquired and analyzed during this phase.
Assuming the feasibility study is positive and financing is available, we will then commence construction of the 10,000 tons per day mine and process facility. The longest lead time item will be the development of two parallel adits (approximately 15,500 feet) driven uphill at a 10% grade into the deposit; one for conveyor haulage out of the mine and the other for services and access for men and materials. Other underground construction in non-mineralized rock (such as the installation of primary crushing facilities) will be relatively limited since mine development for ore haulage will largely be confined to the ore zone. The processing plant and surface infrastructure will use conventional technology and will be based on the experience we have gained from operating the Troy processing plant. Construction, including development of the service and conveyor adits, is estimated to take about three years.
Item 3.