Item 2. Properties.
We acquired our interest in the Troy Mine and Rock Creek Project in February 2005 through our acquisition of Revett Silver. Revett Silver, in turn, acquired Troy and Rock Creek from ASARCO and Kennecott in October 1999 and February 2000. Revett Silver holds Troy through its wholly-owned subsidiary Troy Mine Inc. and it holds Rock Creek through its wholly-owned subsidiary RC Resources Inc. Both properties are located in northwestern Montana.
Geological Setting. The geology of the region is characterized by a thick sedimentary sequence, Proterozoic in age. Within this sequence, there are four major conformable groups: Lower Belt, Ravalli, Middle Belt Carbonate and Missoula Groups. The Troy and Rock Creek deposits are found within the Ravalli Group, specifically in the Revett Formation. This Formation represents a mature, clastic, metamorphosed sandstone sequence of varying thicknesses with the sulfide mineralization being stratabound and disseminated; minor secondary enriched mineralization also occurs as fracture-fillings. Varying degrees of copper and silver mineralization occurs within favorable beds throughout the Revett Formation (in excess of 2,000 feet thick) as depicted in the following diagram.
Stratabound Copper-Silver Deposits. Base and precious metals mineralization is associated with sulfide dissemination occurring within selected portions of the Precambrian Belt Supergroup, and more specifically within the Revett Formation. This type of mineralization, referred to as stratabound disseminated copper deposits, is interpreted to result from the migration of metal-bearing solutions through unconsolidated porous sediments prior to, or during, diagenesis. This class of copper and silver deposits has received considerable research to understand their genesis and determine the fundamental controls on ore distribution. All deposits are similar and appear to exhibit lateral metal and mineral zoning which were interpreted to derive from primary ore-forming processes.
Copper-Silver Mineralization. Copper is found in the sulfide minerals bornite and chalcocite and most often occurs as fine-grained disseminations with concentrations of these minerals comprising along fractures, veinlets and bedding planes usually less than six percent of the total sulfide. The main copper sulfide zones are the chalcocite-chlorite and the bornite-calcite zones. Significant amounts of silver are found in these zones, primarily within the copper sulfides as well as some enriched native silver. The thickness of these zones and their copper and silver grades are generally quite continuous across large areas, while locally there are segments thinner or of lower grade. Enveloping the chalcocite-chlorite and bornite-calcite zones, are four additional concentric mineral zones that generally have no economic value. The chalcopyrite-ankerite zone is on the proximal side of the ore zones. The other three mineral zones are chalcopyrite-calcite, galena-calcite and pyrite-calcite which are sequentially located on the distal side of the ore zones.
Physiography, Climate and Infrastructure. The Cabinet Mountains form a northwest-trending mountain range of rugged relief. Maximum relief in the area is about 5,500 feet ranging from 2,200 feet in the valleys to 7,700 feet at the peaks. The area’s topography is controlled by the underlying rock types and structural features. Rocks in the area are relatively competent and resistant to erosion. The talus slopes and hogback ridges are usually formed by the more weather resistant quartzite and limestone rocks.
The major land-forming features were created by the Rocky Mountain uplift that was active approximately 60 million years ago, and were subsequently modified by shifts in the earth’s crust, alpine glaciation and alluvial deposits. Topography in the area of the projects has been influenced by Pleistocene-age glaciation. In the northern part of the project area, Pleistocene alpine glaciers carved the landscape into a series of cirques, and horns characterized by nearly vertical cliffs, ledges, steep colluvial slopes and talus fields. Pleistocene-age glaciation scoured some lower elevation areas and created a veneer of glacial deposits. Glacial lake bed deposits, silt and clay accumulations approximately 1,000 feet in thickness were deposited in the low-elevation drainages.
The climate of the area is characterized by a combination of Pacific maritime and continental climates. The maritime influences are strongest in the winter when relatively warm, moist air from the Pacific Ocean is cooled as it is lifted over the mountains and mixes with colder Arctic air moving south. This results in snowfall with significant accumulations in the higher elevations. Continental influences are more prevalent in the summer with thundershowers during May and June followed by hot, dry weather into mid-September. Annual precipitation totals vary from about 30 inches along the Clark Fork River valley to about 80 inches at the highest elevations in the Cabinet Mountains. Temperatures in the area are moderate. During the summer months, minimum night-time temperatures are in the 50 to 60 degrees Fahrenheit range. Winter cold waves occur, but mild weather is more common. The long-term annual average temperature is about 45 degrees Fahrenheit. The warmest month, July, averages 65 degrees Fahrenheit and the coldest month, January, averages 24 degrees Fahrenheit.
The Troy Mine is located in Lincoln County, Montana which is sparsely inhabited with several rural communities. Libby, the county seat, is located approximately 32 miles northeast of the mine. The mine site is accessed by a seven mile paved mine road which connects to Montana Highway 56, a paved all-weather road connecting Montana Highway 200 to U.S. Highway 2. The copper-silver concentrates from Troy are trucked to a leased load out facility and rail siding in Libby for rail shipment to a port as designated by our concentrate purchaser. The mine is connected to the local power grid managed by a local electric cooperative.
Rock Creek is located in Sanders County, Montana, approximately 5 miles northeast of the town of Noxon. Thompson Falls, the county seat, is located approximately 37 miles southeast of Noxon along Montana Highway 200. An active railway line parallels Highway 200 and will connect directly to a copper-silver concentrate load out facility at the project site. Electrical service is available throughout the area including a high voltage power line which passes through the project area. Rock Creek is ideally situated from an infrastructure standpoint as all major services (power, highway, rail and water) are available within four miles of the planned and approved project site.
The local economy is based primarily on agriculture and tourism and, to a lesser extent, logging and the production of wood products. Unemployment in Lincoln and Sanders Counties is high relative to state and national unemployment rates.
Development History. The Company’s asset development dates back to 1963 when the Bear Creek Mining Company (a subsidiary of Kennecott Copper Corp.; “Kennecott”) discovered stratabound copper and silver mineralization in the Cabinet Mountains of northwestern Montana. Over the next two decades, extensive exploration activity delineated both the Troy and Rock Creek deposits. The Troy and Rock Creek deposits share many similarities in geology, geochemistry, and physiology. Based on extensive analysis of these similarities, the State and Federal agencies responsible for permitting and oversight of mining operations gained sufficient comfort from the environmentally compatible operating history at Troy to grant approvals for Rock Creek.
In 1973, ASARCO leased the Troy project from Kennecott and began permitting and development of the Troy Mine. Production commenced in August 1981 and continued until April 1993, when operations were placed on care and maintenance due mainly to low metal prices. During the twelve year period of production, the Troy Mine produced approximately 4.0 million ounces of silver and 34 million pounds of copper per year. A total of 44.4 million ounces of silver and 389.9 million pounds of copper were produced during this period. The mine and plant improvements were owned by ASARCO with Kennecott retaining a 25% net profits interest.
In 1973, ASARCO also acquired Rock Creek claims from Kennecott and commenced an exploration program comprising 121 boreholes. According to a final exploration report prepared by ASARCO in 1989, the Rock Creek deposit contained a mineral resource estimated at 143.76 million tons grading an average of 0.68% copper and 1.65 ounces of silver per ton using a polygonal method.
In 1982 and 1983, U.S. Borax and Chemical Corporation, a subsidiary of Rio Tinto PLC (“U.S. Borax”), explored the lateral extensions of Rock Creek deposit on adjacent claims. In 1984 U.S. Borax estimated the mineral inventory of 48 million tons grading 0.54% Cu and 1.66 opt Ag in three satellite zones (the “Adjacent Properties”) using a polygonal methodology. This mineral inventory and methodology has not been audited. Revett Silver acquired these Adjacent Properties in 2000 as part of the Kennecott (also a subsidiary of Rio Tinto) transaction.
Revett Silver subsequently acquired the mineral rights to two other exploration stage stratabound copper/silver prospects located south of, and on trend with Rock Creek, these being the Vermilion River and Sims Creek projects.
In 2010, Troy Mine Inc. acquired a total 152 unpatented claims from Kennecott. These claims are located east and north of the Troy expanding our claim holdings by approximately 3,000 acres providing important new ground for exploration activities to potentially extend the mine life.
In 2011 RC Resources Inc. acquired 8 unpatented claims (the JE claims) and staked an additional 200 unpatented claims (the Lost Girl claims) northwest of Rock Creek expanding the property position at Rock Creek by approximately 4,000 acres.
Troy Mine. Troy is an underground “room and pillar” copper and silver mine with a conventional flotation mill located in Lincoln County, Montana. Developed by ASARCO in 1980 and 1981 at a cost of approximately $100 million, the mine comprises 24 patented lode-mining claims and approximately 511 unpatented lode-mining claims. We re-opened Troy in December 2004 at a cost of approximately $8 million, and have continuously operated it since then. Copper concentrate high in silver content is currently shipped by rail from a loadout facility in Libby, MT under a renewable long term contract. The Troy concentrates typically contain 34% to 40% copper and 70 to 110 troy ounces of silver per ton. The Troy concentrates are considered high grade and clean with no deleterious elements.
The Troy Deposit Economically significant mineralization occurs at Troy within a number of distinct stratigraphically adjacent quartzite sub-units. The Upper, Middle and Lower Quartzites are located within the Upper Member of the Revett Formation and the “A”, “C” and “I” Beds are contained in the Lower Member of the Revett Formation. In plan view, the stratiform deposit measures approximately 7,500 feet by 1,800 feet. In the vicinity of the mine, the stratigraphy is generally flat with a shallow dip of four degrees (7% grade). There are two styles of faults in the mine area. Northwest trending faults are brittle-ductile structures with common clay gouge as exemplified by the East Fault. The East Fault displays a close spatial relationship with the copper-silver mineralization. The second type of faults represents late brittle and generally open faults with sandy infill typified by the Cross Fault which separates the north and south ore bodies. These faults trend ENE to ESE and have steep southerly dips. These faults are late structures offsetting the mineralized sedimentary units. The Cross Fault also offsets the East Fault.
The Troy deposit has been subdivided into three separate mining areas; the North Ore Body (“NOB”), South Ore Body (“SOB”) and the East Ore Body (“EOB”), delineated primarily by the Cross Fault and the East Fault dissecting the mineralized quartzite sub-units (see following Mine Layout diagram). The main mining quartzite sub-unit has been the middle quartzite which averages approximately sixty feet thick. The NOB and SOB are mined in both the Lower and Middle Quartzite while the Middle and Upper Quartzite sub-units are mined in the EOB. No economic copper and silver mineralization was delineated in the Upper Quartzite west of the East Fault and similarly in the Lower Quartzite east of the East Fault (which represents the eastern boundary of the NOB and SOB). The South fault delineates the southern margin of the SOB. All other lateral ore boundaries are assay delimited and do not represent hard geological boundaries. Both the A and C Beds are mined in the South Ore Body.
Exploration drilling by the Company between 2006 and 2011 to delineate additional mineralization beneath the SOB in the lower member of the Revett formation was successful in discovering several new ore bodies located in the “C Beds” as well as adding reserves in the “A” and “I” Beds in the South Ore Body. These deposits are now incorporated in our probable reserves (see following Troy Exploration discussion).
Current Troy Reserve Estimates (December 31, 2011)
The following key factors were used in determining the foregoing reserves:
Key Factors / Parameters Silver Copper Other/Total
Metal Prices (prior 5 year averages) $19.61 $3.23
NSR Cutoff (Incl. Royalty)
$28.49 / Ton
NSR by Metal (1.18 Ag, 0.47 Cu) $17.91 $22.96 $40.87 / Ton
Mining Recovery
100%
Dilution (Incl. Reserve Calc.)
0%
Metallurgical Recoveries - LOM Avg. 85.86% 84.18%
Current Troy Resources Estimate (December 31, 2011)
1)
Resources listed for the JF Property are a historical estimate within the meaning of National Instrument 43-101 of Canadian Securities Administrators (“NI 43-101”) and are based upon a 1992 ASARCO internal report of “11 million tons grading 0.40% Cu and 1.40 opt Ag. The ASARCO report was prepared before the adoption of NI 43-101 and uses categories other than the ones set out in section 1.2 of NI 43-101. We consider it to be relevant, even though no “Qualified Person”, within the meaning of NI 43-101 has done sufficient work to classify the historical estimate as current mineral resources. We do not treat ASARCO’s historical estimate as current mineral resources and will not do so unless and until we have undertaken additional steps to validate ASARCO’s drilling data either by re-assaying the prior drill core or by supplementing it with new drilling data.
Reserve and mineral resource estimates were performed by Larry Erickson, P. Eng., an employee of the Company. Reserve and mineral resource estimates conform to Canadian Standards on Mineral Resources and Mineral Reserves Definitions and Guidelines (CIM Guidelines, August 20, 2000) in compliance with NI 43-101 requirements. Mineral Reserves are the mineable portion of the overall remaining Mineral Resource. Mineral Resource is the total of all ore-grade rock which includes the Mineral Reserves, pillars, Resources below NSR cut-off grade and Resources not included in the Life of Mine Plan. Mineral Resource has been subdivided into “measured and indicated” classifications, and Mineral Reserve has been subdivided into “proven and probable” classifications following Canadian Institute of Mining Metallurgy and Petroleum, CIM, Definition Standards. United States investors are cautioned that while the terms “measured mineral resources” and “indicated mineral resources” are recognized and required by Canadian regulations, the terms are not recognized by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The SEC describes the equivalent as “Mineralized Material”. The estimation of mineral resources involves greater uncertainty as to their existence and economic feasibility than the estimation of proven and probable reserves. United States investors are cautioned not to assume that any part or all of the mineral resources will ever be converted into mineral reserves. United States investors are also cautioned that while the term “inferred mineral resources” is recognized and required by Canadian regulations, it is not recognized by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The estimation of inferred mineral resources involves a great amount of uncertainty as to their existence and economic feasibility. United States investors are cautioned not to assume that any part or all of the mineral resources will ever be converted into mineral reserves
Operations. ASARCO operated Troy at approximately 8,500 tons per day (“tpd”) between 1981-1993 while mining primarily in the 60 foot thick Middle Quartzite unit where two-thirds of the production came from bench mining. We are currently operating at the planned rate of approximately 4,000 tpd with the majority of our mine plan focused on the remaining 30 to 40 foot thick East Ore Body, Lower Quartzites, A Bed, C Bed and I Bed areas. We believe continued workforce training focused on safety and productivity combined with development of access to new mining areas such as the I Beds will help us work towards increasing production levels. Production has been increased 28% since 2007.
Troy Mine Production
(1,000s)
Total
2007-11
2012e
Mill Production (tons) 1,109 1,307 1,337 1,363 1,417 6,533 1,436
Grades - Ag (opt) 1.07 1.00 1.00 0.87 1.07 1.00 1.13
- Cu (%) 0.50% 0.43% 0.39% 0.40% 0.46% 0.43% 0.47%
Recovery - Ag (%) 88.9% 89.8% 84.7% 85.0% 84.9% 86.6% 86.5%
- Cu (%) 86.9% 87.5% 83.2% 81.2% 82.0% 84.1% 84.8%
Production - Ag (oz) 1,054 1,179 1,135 1,008 1,291 5,667 1,400
- Cu (lbs) 9,681 9,791 8,624 8,794 10,651 47,543 11,500
Cash Cost ($/st) $ 32.46 $ 30.88 $ 23.13 $ 24.83 $ 30.52 $ 28.36 $ 30.45
Note: Cash Costs are in dollars per short ton including all direct site costs, treatment, freight, refining and royalty costs. The cash cost per ton is a non-GAAP measure. The Company believes that cash cost per ton is a benchmark for performance and is well understood and widely reported in the mining industry.
In 2011, Troy achieved the highest mill throughput and metal production since the mine was reopened in December 2004. Production increased from 3,277 tons per day in the first quarter to 4,208 tons per day in the fourth quarter averaging 3,957 tons per day for the year. Approximately 40% of the ore was mined from the higher grade C Bed area with the remainder mined mainly from the A Beds and Lower Quartzite areas which are lower grade areas. Metal recoveries were 84.85% for silver and 82.01% for copper.
In 2012, we expect to process 1.4 million tons of ore grading 1.13 ounces per ton silver and 0.47% copper and recover 1.4 million ounces of silver and 11.5 million pounds of copper. The proven and probable reserves currently defined at Troy provide for a seven year life-of-mine plan at our current production rate.
Ongoing Troy Exploration. We have been exploring beneath and adjacent to the current workings at Troy for the past several drilling seasons. Our primary target has been stratabound copper/silver mineralization located in the “I-Beds” of the Lower Revett Formation, approximately 1,200 feet stratagraphically below the main ore body at the mine. ASARCO had initially identified mineralization in these beds during drill programs in the 1980s but did not follow up with subsequent drilling as metal prices began to fall in the early 1990s.
Since the Rock Creek Project is hosted in the upper quartzite units of the Lower Revett Formation, specifically the “A, C, E & G-Beds”, we believe the potential for ore grade mineralization exists in these and other beds. Our drilling not only confirmed mineralization in the “I-Beds” but also resulted in the discovery of mineable reserves hosted in the “I Beds”, “C Beds” and “A Beds” directly beneath the current workings. We have completed development of the A Bed and C Bed areas and will continue to produce ore from these areas in 2012. We also plan to begin development of access to the I Bed area in the second half of 2012. This access development is expected to take approximately 24 months to complete. Drilling targeting expansion of the “I Beds” and other areas will continue in the 2012 drilling program which has been budgeted at $1.9 million.
Generalized Cross-Section of the Troy Mine Area Looking East
In addition to the “I-Bed” mineralization beneath the current Troy workings, ASARCO discovered and delineated the “JF” copper/silver deposit to the south of the mine. ASARCO reported in an internal report a “Mineral Reserve” for the JF deposit of “11 million tons grading 1.4 ounces per ton of silver and 0.4% copper.” We completed the first phase of drilling and re-assaying of existing core from the ASARCO drill program on the JF property in 2011 and plan to continue a confirmatory drill program on the area between Troy and JF as well as the JF deposit area in 2012. Although the re-assaying of existing core confirmed ASARCO results on the JF property, due to down-hole deviation, the two angle holes drilled in 2011 did not reach the area of mineralization.
Our longer range goals are to step out from the immediate mine area to explore for additional resources that would allow us to use our existing mine and processing infrastructure. There are promising mineralization trends to the north and east of the Troy Mine, which will be our initial targets. We have been expanding our claim holdings in these areas as well as reviewing prior geophysical and drill data.
Mine Reclamation Plan. We have posted a reclamation performance bond for the Troy Mine. The amount of the bond was $12.9 million as of December 31, 2011, which included $6.5 million in a restricted cash account. We are presently conducting environmental studies at the mine in conjunction with the DEQ and the Forest Service for completion of a revised reclamation plan. This plan, once accepted, may dictate a further adjustment of the amount of the reclamation performance bond. A key issue involving Troy’s reclamation and remediation is whether water discharges from the mine will require treatment even though there is presently no evidence of acid rock drainage nor any evidence of the mobilization of other deleterious constituents at the mine site. At December 31, 2011, we had accrued an $8.0 million liability relating to our reclamation and remediation obligations at Troy.
Rock Creek. Rock Creek is a large development-stage stratabound copper and silver deposit located in Sanders County, Montana. The project comprises 99 patented lode-mining claims, 370 unpatented lode-mining claims, 5 tunnel site claims and 85 mill site claims. The patented claims lying within the Cabinet Mountain Wilderness Area convey mineral rights only and the claims lying outside the wilderness area convey both mineral and surface rights. The patented claims were legally surveyed in 1983 and occupy an area of approximately 1,809 acres. All of the Rock Creek mining claims are in good standing. The project also includes 754 acres of fee land associated with project facilities and 673 acres of fee land to be used for grizzly bears mitigation purposes.
The project is approximately sixteen air miles or forty-five road miles southeast from the Troy Mine. While the ore body lies under the Cabinet Mountain Wilderness area, the Company will access mining operations from outside the wilderness. The project development plan will be very similar to that used at the Troy Mine. The designs for Rock Creek contemplate operations at a rate of 10,000 tpd, producing on average fifty-two million pounds of copper and six million ounces of silver per year.
The Rock Creek Deposit. The stratigraphy in the vicinity of the Rock Creek Project is nearly identical to that found at the nearby Troy Mine. Bedrock exposed in the area consists primarily of the Revett and St. Regis Formations. In this area, Belt Supergroup rocks are gently folded and cut by several northwest-trending faults. In the vicinity of the deposit, two faults, the Copper Lake and Moran Faults, subdivide the deposit into three segments: The Chicago Peak, St. Paul and North Basin blocks. The more significant portion of the Rock Creek deposit forms an oblong body measuring at least 16,000 feet along the long axis by 7,200 feet along the short axis. The long axis of the copper and silver mineralization is generally oriented along the north-south direction. The copper and silver mineralization occurs within an anticlinal structure, plunging slightly to the northwest. The copper and silver mineralization occurs between elevations of 4,300 and 6,000 feet above mean sea level. Mineralization occurs primarily within quartzite units of the Lower Member of the Revett Formation and subordinately within siltite and argillite sub-units of the lower and middle Revett Formation. The Lower Member of the Revett has been locally subdivided into the same individual units as Troy named the “A” through “I” Quartzite Beds (from top to bottom). The bulk of the mineralization is confined to one layer, but locally there may be up to four vertically stacked, potentially minable layers. The copper and silver mineralization ranges in thickness from six feet up to a maximum of 235 feet, near the Copper Lake Fault. The average thickness is approximately twenty-seven feet.
Rock Creek Resource Estimates (April 2004)
1.
Mineral Resources have been categorized in accordance with the classifications defined by the CIMM.
2.
The estimated mineral resources are based upon a technical report (the “ Rock Creek Report”) dated May 7, 2004, amended as of January 27, 2005, prepared by SRK Consulting, Toronto in accordance with NI 43-101. The estimates were prepared and are based upon a cut-off grade of US$ 10.00 net smelter return per ton calculated at US$ 7.00/oz Ag and US$1.00/lb Cu.
Permitting History and Status. After seventeen years of study and review, the Forest Service and DEQ jointly issued a Record of Decision in June 2003 approving our proposed plan of operation. The Record of Decision was based primarily on the findings detailed in the final EIS issued in 2001 and a non-jeopardy biological opinion issued by the USFWS in May 2003. The Final EIS followed six years of public and inter-agency review and comment (the initial draft EIS was issued in October 1995) with subsequent project development modifications and mitigations, as required under NEPA. In May 2010, the Record of Decision and final EIS were remanded back to the Forest Service for further action by the Federal District Court in Montana and completion of a Supplemental EIS is now required to address several deficiencies noted by the Judgment.
The Company has support infrastructure including an office and core storage building at the site in anticipation of a favorable ruling from the courts. Approval was granted to construct the evaluation adit support facilities (office, shop, dry, etc.) on private land and reclamation bonding was provided.
Project Development. If we are allowed to proceed with our evaluation program at Rock Creek, we will install remaining infrastructure (including improvements to the access road, power transmission and a water treatment facility) and construct an adit approximately 7,000 feet long to gain access into the deposit. After mineralization is reached (at approximately 3,500 feet), we will then collect data to support a full technical and economic feasibility study. This process is expected to take approximately two years and will include both direct development in mineralization and an infill drilling program with a view to establishing proven and probable reserves within a portion of the ore body.
Assuming the feasibility study is positive, and financing is available, we will then commence construction of the 10,000 tpd mine and process facility. The longest lead time item will be the development of two parallel adits (approximately 15,500 feet) driven uphill at a 10% grade into the deposit; one for conveyor haulage out of the mine and the other for services and access for men and materials. Other underground construction in waste rock (such as the installation of primary crushing facilities) will be relatively limited since mine development for ore haulage will largely be confined to the ore zone. The processing plant and surface infrastructure will use conventional technology and will be based on the experience we have gained from operating the Troy processing plant. Construction, including development of the service and conveyor adits, is estimated to take about three years.
Other Properties. The Company has acquired the mineral rights to three other exploration-stage prospects located in the vicinity of Troy or Rock Creek: the Adjacent Properties at Rock Creek (the “Adjacent Properties”), the JF Property at Troy (discussed above) and the Vermillion River and Sims Creek properties south east of Rock Creek. All of these projects are Revett Formation-hosted, stratabound silver and copper prospects.
The Adjacent Properties at Rock Creek are comprised of three unpatented claim groups, Copper Gulch, Horizon Basin and Rock Peak, which cover lateral extensions of the Rock Creek deposit. The prior owners of the Adjacent Properties drilled 36 boreholes into the mineralization of these claims groups and estimated the mineral inventory of 48 million tons grading 0.54% Cu and 1.66 opt Ag in three satellite zones using a polygonal methodology.
1)
Resources listed for the Adjacent Properties at Rock Creek are a “historical mineral resource estimate” within the meaning of “NI 43-101” and are based upon a 1984, U.S. Borax internal report titled an “Economic Analysis of the Rock Peak Project” by W. McGregor & M.D. Regan. This historical mineral resource estimate, was prepared before the adoption of NI 43-101 and uses categories other than the ones set out in section 1.2 of NI 43-101. We consider it relevant even though no Qualified Person within the meaning of NI 43-101 has done sufficient work to classify the historical estimate as current mineral resources. We do not treat U.S. Borax’s historical estimate as current mineral resources and will not do so unless and until we have undertaken additional steps to validate U.S. Borax’s drilling data either by re-assaying the prior drill core or by supplementing it with new drilling data. Consequently, you should not rely upon U.S. Borax’s historical estimate.
The JF property consists of an unpatented claim group located approximately one mile south of the Troy Mine. ASARCO conducted a limited drilling program on the property over 20 years ago, consisting of twelve diamond drill holes totaling 12,183 feet and three smaller holes that tested the mineralization outcropping totaling 752 feet. The drill hole spacing ranged from 250 to 700 feet, and revealed copper-silver mineralization in a flat lying north-south trending zone approximately 800 feet wide and approximately one mile long, with an estimated average thickness of 27 feet. The JF deposit remains open on its east, west and south margins. We believe confirmation of a commercially mineable resource on the JF property could extend the life of the Troy Mine by as much as five years.
The Vermillion River and the Sims Creek properties consist of two unpatented claim groups located approximately 25 miles southeast of Rock Creek. Limited drilling was conducted by the previous owner of the Vermillion River claim group. The Sims group is untested.
Item 3.