Item 2. Properties.
We currently do not own any real property. We currently sub lease on a month to month basis an office space located at Suite 880, 580 Hornby Street, Vancouver, BC Canada V6C 3B6, consisting of approximately 256 square feet at a cost of $1,500 per month.
HELMER-BOVILL PROPERTY
We own a 100% interest in our lead mineral project called the Helmer-Bovill Property. Our activities at the Helmer-Bovill Property are focused on developing the Bovill Kaolin Project and the WBL Tailings Project, which are located within the Helmer-Bovill Property.
We acquired the Helmer-Bovill Property from Idaho Industrial Minerals (“IIM”) pursuant to an Assignment Agreement with Contingent Right of Reverter dated August 12, 2002, as amended August 10, 2005, August 10, 2008 and January 21, 2010 (as amended, the “IIM Agreement”), between I-Minerals USA (formerly Alchemy Kaolin Corporation), our wholly owned subsidiary, and IIM. Under the terms of the IIM Agreement, IIM retained a contingent right of reverter with respect to the mineral lease applications (or the mineral leases acquired thereby) underlying the Helmer-Bovill Property if we failed meet our obligation to issue to IIM a total of 1,800,000 shares of our common stock, in tranches, based upon the completion of certain deliverables, and subject to such conditions as imposed by the TSX Venture Exchange. On January 22, 2013, we delivered the final tranche of the shares issuable to IIM. As such, we believe that the contingent right of reverter set out in the IIM Agreement has been extinguished, and that we have fulfilled all of our obligations under the IIM Agreement.
However, shortly after our delivery of the final tranche of shares to IIM, two minority members of IIM attempted to derivatively (and on behalf of IIM) reject our tender of shares. These minority members of IIM claimed that the deliverables were not completed and the right of reverter could be exercised. The majority member of IIM brought suit against the two minority members claiming that no such derivative right exists, that the minority members had no right or authority to reject the shares on behalf of IIM, and that we had fully complied with the terms of the IIM. We have since been brought into that lawsuit. Court-ordered mediation was held on May 28, 2015, in the lawsuit filed against the Company by Hoodoo Resources, LLC, and the Brent Thomson Family Trust (collectively, "the Plaintiffs"). The mediation sought to resolve the Plaintiffs’ claims against the Company, as well as the Company’s claims against the Plaintiffs.
Mediation was successful and the Plaintiffs and the Company entered into an agreement in principle to settle the parties’ claims against one another that was documented in a Binding Settlement Term Sheet. Thereafter, on December 2, 2015, we settled all lawsuits relating to the Helmer-Bovill Property pursuant to the terms of the Settlement Agreement. Under the terms of the Settlement Agreement, we paid IIM the aggregate sum of $100,000 (the “I-Minerals Payment”) for the release of any and all claims made against us under the lawsuits by the Ball Entities and the Plaintiffs. In addition, IIM and NWK have expressly acknowledged and agreed that, upon receipt of the I-Minerals Payment, we have fulfilled all of our duties and obligations under the terms of the IIM Agreement relating to our Helmer-Bovill Property, and that any and all rights and claims of IIM and NWK to the mineral leases making up the Helmer-Bovill Property will be released and extinguished. Refer to “Legal Proceedings” below for further information.
The technical information appearing below concerning the Helmer-Bovill Property is derived from the technical report titled Bovill Kaolin Project, Latah County, Idaho, USA, NI 43-101 Technical Report - Feasibility Study, Prepared For I-Minerals USA, Inc. with contributing consultants GBM Engineers LLC, Mine Development Associates. HDR Engineering Inc., SRK Consulting (U.S.), Inc., Tetra Tech, Compiled By GBM Project Number: 0530.
Description of Property
The Helmer-Bovill Property is a development stage open pit mining operation which will produce quartz sand, K- feldspar sand, kaolinite clay and halloysite clay. The area has been mined historically for similar products.
The Helmer-Bovill Property is located at geographical coordinates 46° 52' 43.5" N. latitude and 116° 25' 47.2" W longitude (State Plane, NAD 83, Zone 1103, Idaho West: 1 900 717 N, 2 454 671 E) in Latah County, Idaho, USA. The property currently totals 5,140.6 acres. The mineral leases are not adjoining, but are situated within three surveyed townships near the town of Bovill, Idaho.
Figure 1. Location of the Helmer-Bovill Property
Figure 2. Location of Mineral Leases
Figure 3. Location of Deposits
The Helmer-Bovill Property area is located on endowment lands owned and administered by the IDL. These and other IDL holdings across the state of Idaho were granted to the state in 1890 by the federal government on the condition they produce maximum long-term financial returns for public schools and other beneficiaries. Therefore, IDL has a mandate for these lands to produce revenue to support the state’s public school system and other state institutions. To achieve this, IDL manages these properties primarily for profit through the production of timber, livestock grazing, and the extraction of mineable materials.
The State of Idaho endowments lands fall in two categories referred to as Fee Simple (FS) and Minerals Only (MO). The FS lands are where the State owns both mineral and surface rights. The MO lands are where the State owns mineral rights but someone else owns surface rights. The majority of the lands held by us are FS. All mineral resources and mineral reserves described in this report are located on FS lands. By way of our mineral leases, we have surface rights and legal access to the Helmer-Bovill Property provided it meets all permitting and bonding requirements administered by IDL. In the State of Idaho, mineral leases are not required to be physically located in the field. The mineral leases are currently described only on paper by the U.S. Public Land Survey Grid.
In 2002, we acquired from IIM, through our wholly owned subsidiary Alchemy Kaolin Corporation, 16 State of Idaho mineral lease applications in Latah County, Idaho, to cover deposits of feldspar, kaolin, and quartz located near Bovill, Idaho. In 2003, we converted these applications to ten mineral leases and subsequently obtained two more mineral leases. Renewal applications for all 12 leases were filed on April 27, 2012 with a US$3,000 application fee. As part of the renewal process, Idaho converted the 12 mineral leases into 10 revised mineral leases which were issued on February 28, 2013. Subsequently, during 2013 the State of Idaho granted one additional mineral lease to us. At this time, we hold 11 mineral leases totaling 5,140.64 acres. All current leases are valid until 2023. Due to recent changes in the law, we are exploring various options for renewal. All leases are subject to rental fees of US$1.00/acre/y and a production royalty of 5 percent of gross proceeds.
The production royalty is prepaid at a rate of US$500 per lease for the first five years, and increases to US$1,000 per lease for the second five years of the lease. The surface rights of the 11 mineral leases are owned by both the State of Idaho and some private landowners. However, the surface right of the mineral leases specific to the resource estimation contained in this report are all owned and administered by the State of Idaho. The U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (“USACE”) owns the surface rights of all waterways located within the mineral lease boundaries.
The details of the mineral leases that comprise the Helmer-Bovill Property are summarized below:
Table 4-1: Mineral Leases
The WBL Tailings Project is located on mineral lease E410013 and covers an area of approximately 650 feet wide by 900 feet long.
Location, Access and Infrastructure
The Helmer-Bovill Property is accessed by road from the town of Lewiston by following U.S Highway #12 to State Highway ID-3 N to Deary and then State Highway ID-8 E for 4 mi, then turning left on Moose Creek Road/National Forest Road 381 and following for 5.5 miles. ID-3 S/ID-8 W is an improved two lane road, while Moose Creek Road/National Forest Development Road 381 is a dirt/gravel road that provides access to State and Federal lands. In addition, access to specific areas to be mined will require either upgrades to former logging roads or construction of new access roads.
The nearest, large communities are Moscow, Idaho, which lies about 28 miles west-southwest of the Property, and Lewiston, Idaho, which lies about 33 miles to the southwest. Transport to the Helmer-Bovill Property would utilize standard over-highway vehicles.
Electric power would be provided by Avista Corp., but we would be required to construct approximately four miles of power lines.
Natural gas is available to the Helmer-Bovill Property from a natural gas pipeline that extends from Moscow to Bovill and is available to be utilized for this processing facility. Approximately two miles of pipeline would need to be constructed.
Water needed for processing would come from new wells located at the process site. Groundwater from drilled wells is typically used to serve domestic needs within the vicinity of the Property. Additional water is also available in a small reservoir north of the Helmer-Bovill Property. We intend to apply for water rights to this reservoir in the near future.
The region has a long history of clay production, forestry and farming. A labor force skilled in heavy equipment operation, trucking, and general labor exists within the surrounding communities and rural areas.
There are several suitable locations for potential tailings storage, mining waste disposal, and potential processing plants.
The WBL Tailings Project is mined using a loader and/or excavator or backhoe. If required, on-site power will be supplied by a diesel or gasoline power generator. Fuel supply will generally be provided by pickup truck fuel transfer tanks (typically 90 to 150 gallons). If fuel is temporarily stored on site, secondary containment will be used (either double-walled tanks or a secondary containment wall), and if fuel storage volume exceeds 1320 gallons, a Spill Prevention, Control Countermeasure plan will be developed in accordance with federal regulations. Water will be used only as dust control and will be taken from the WLB pits. Bottled water will be provided, as necessary for drinking water for employees and contractors.
Royalties, Agreements and Encumbrances
We have rights to develop the Project through minerals leases issued by the State of Idaho (Leases). These Leases were acquired from IIM and are held by I-Minerals, based on an Assignment Agreement with Contingent Right of Reverter (the Agreement), dated August 12, 2002, between I-Minerals USA (formerly Alchemy Kaolin Corporation) and IIM. The Agreement has been subject to several amendments and ratifications between the parties, dated effective August 10, 2005, August 10, 2008, and January 21, 2010. Under the terms of the Agreement, I-Minerals acquired a 100 percent interest in the property by issuing a total of 1.75 million shares of our common stock to IIM. These shares were issued on a staged basis with the final block of shares was delivered on January 23, 2013.
The State of Idaho retains a 5 percent gross production royalty due upon commencement of any mineral production.
Environmental Liabilities
The Leases we hold cover areas of historic open pit mining. These areas include open pit mines, waste dumps and tailings areas. At this time, there are no known environmental liabilities associated with the exploration work we have conducted, and all activities to date are covered under general State and Federal authorizations for exploratory work. We submitted an original bond of US$750 to the IDL to cover environmental liabilities associated with its exploration work. This bond remained in place throughout the work, but it was refunded in December 2012. On November 1, 2010, the State of Idaho revised its bonding program, and since that time, we have been paying a reclamation bond of US$100 per lease per year. IDL also requires bonding for each individual Land Use Permit for exploration work requested. At present, IDL is holding a cash bond of $6,203. All reclamation bonding is current through October 31, 2016, and the IDL has approved all reclamation conducted to date.
Permits
We are currently permitted for the following activities at the Bovill Project site (IDL mineral leased lands).
Exploration Activities
We conducted exploration activities in accordance with Idaho Administrative Procedure Act (IDAPA) 20.03.02.060 - Exploration Operations and Required Reclamation. We originally filed a Notification of Exploration (NOE) with the IDL in 2000, which was later amended for surface exploration and drilling programs. Exploration disturbances have been reclaimed, and approved by the IDL.
Mining Activities
We are permitted through an approved Mine Plan of Operations and Reclamation Plan from IDL for the mining of approximately 10 acres of feldspathic sands from June through October for up to 10 years (2012 through 2022). These feldspathic sands were deposited as tailings from clay mining operations that occurred on or near our mineral leases between 1956 and 1974. These activities are conducted under a National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System’s (NPDES) 2008 Multi-Sector General Permit (MSGP) for Stormwater Discharges Associated with Industrial Activities (Permit Number IDR05CU73). The stormwater permit became effective on November 8, 2012, and has been extended until June 4, 2020.
Permits to be Acquired for the Project
A review of Project plans identified a range of environmental permits, review processes, and authorizations required for construction, operation, and closure. Development of the Project will require approval of a Plan of Operations and Reclamation Plan by IDL (IDAPA 20.03.02), and an updated NOI for coverage under the NPDES MSGP for industrial activities (Sector J3: Mineral Mining and Dressing/Clay, Ceramic, and Refractory Materials). In addition, a State air quality permit will be required for emission sources, including dryer stacks and fugitive dust. Closure of the mine requires IDL approval of a detailed Mine Site Reclamation and Tailings Closure Plan. Also, monitoring of certain resources will likely be mandated through the State mine permitting process as well as through the Federal NDPES stormwater general permit.
A goal of the Project design is to avoid disturbances in jurisdictional wetlands or other waters, so that a Clean Water Act Section 404 permit will not be required, or at most, be limited to Section 404(e) Nationwide Permit 14 (nationwide permit) for minor fill. No federal lands or federal permits (except for the stormwater general permits) are anticipated in the Project plans, and as such, a National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) environmental review of the proposed Project is not anticipated (other than resource information required as part of the stormwater general permits).
Climate and Physiography
The climate at the Helmer-Bovill Property is characterized by an estimated average annual precipitation of 38.82 inches, with the highest values recorded between October and March (71% of the annual precipitation). The average annual minimum and maximum temperatures are 30.1°F and 55.7°F, respectively; with average monthly minimum and maximum temperatures ranging from 18.5°F to 41.7°F and 41.1°F to 83.3°F, respectively.
The average total snowfall ranges from 0.1 inches in October to 37.3 inches in January, with an annual average of 100.9 inches. Average snow depth ranges from 1.0 inches in November to 23.0 inches in February, with an annual average snow depth of 6.0 inches.
The average elevation is about 3,000 ft. above mean sea level, with a topographic relief of about 200 ft. The area is largely covered with soil, but old workings (pits and trenches) and road cuts provide exposure to the underlying bedrock geology. The Helmer-Bovill Property is located on the west side of the Potlatch River drainage area.
The Helmer-Bovill Property area consists of low foothills and ridges alternating with relatively wide, flat basins. Forested areas occupy the slopes and ridge tops which are managed primarily for timber production. Conifer forest makes up approximately 50% of the overall Helmer-Bovill Property area. Forest stands were observed to be early seral, highly fragmented, and lacking in the ecological functions and values of older, more contiguous forests. Grasslands occur in the basins alongside sinuous intermittent and perennial stream channels. The Helmer-Bovill Property area is currently permitted for livestock grazing. Most of the Helmer-Bovill Property area has been disturbed by previous mining, forestry and grazing activities and, as such, contain predominantly disturbance oriented plant communities. Non-forested meadows or pasture areas are intensively grazed resulting in a proliferation of non-native vegetation and soil compaction and erosion.
Surface waters primarily consist of small, meandering, intermittent stream channels that flow toward the Potlatch River. These channels are typically located in the level “flats” between low hills or ridgelines and dry up by mid or late summer. Most streams are hydrologically altered by high- density road construction, historic mining, and cattle grazing. Grazing has also eliminated much of the woody growth along most stream channels resulting in eroded channels and sedimentation. Other surface waters include several old clay mining pits and small dams that have developed into water catchment basins as well as emergent wetlands flanking the stream channels. Groundwater appears in scattered locations as either springs or seepage discharge along streams or edges of wetlands. Native soils predominate in the area.
History
U.S. Bureau of Mines (“USBM”) and United States Geological Survey (“USGS”) (1942-1947)
During World War II, the clays in eastern Washington and northern Idaho were examined as a possible source of alumina and a substitute for foreign bauxite ores. Domestic bauxite reserves were being depleted, and the importation of foreign bauxites was handicapped by transportation difficulties. Both the USGS and USBM conducted extensive field studies that were followed by the drilling of 650 holes that totaled about 20,252 ft.
USBM (1953-1963)
In 1953 the USBM continued their search for viable clay deposits. They also investigated the potential of the contained silica sand for the glass industry. The USBM tested the Benson and Olsen clay deposits between Troy and Deary, and then moved on to the Bovill deposits. Ninety-seven samples were collected from 1,325 ft. of drilling over an area covering 750 ft. x 350 ft. that is located 1.5 miles southwest of Bovill near State Highway 8.
A.P. Green Refractories Company (1956-1993)
In 1956, A.P. Green Refractories Company purchased all the remaining assets of Troy Brick and Clay and acquired a lease, being located north of Helmer, from which they produced refractory clay. They processed the clay by air flotation to produce two grades of refractory clay. Production continued until the early 1990’s when Hammond Engineering purchased one pit from A.P. Green. This pit produced transported clay for ceramic applications. Total production from the area during this period is estimated to be 250,000 tons.
J.R. Simplot Company (1956-1974)
In 1956, the J.R. Simplot Company (“Simplot”) of Boise, Idaho, acquired leases covering the Bovill deposits. In a cooperative program, Simplot and USBM drilled 240 holes (99 of which were on 50 ft. centers) and conducted washing, pyrometric, mineralogical, and beneficiation tests. By 1962, Simplot had built a clay plant, the Miclasil facility, for the production of paper fillers and specialty ceramics. Production initially came from pits in the Bovill deposit, which are in transported clay of the Latah formation directly south of the plant. Simplot shifted production to residual clay deposits in the granodiorite, as this source proved more satisfactory for paper filler. The pits exploited by Simplot for residual clays were the WBL north and south pits and the Moose Creek Clay Mine, and the Stanford pit. Simplot operated their plant until 1974, when it was sub-leased to Clayburn Industries of British Columbia. Clayburn operated the property only a few years, calcining clay that was shipped to Canada and processed into super-duty and 70% alumina bricks. In 1994 the plant was dismantled and the property partially reclaimed.
Several Companies (1983-1986)
During the mid-1980’s, a number of companies began exploration work in the Helmer-Bovill area to identify clays suitable for use as paper fillers and coaters. The University of Indiana, Nord Resources, Miles Industrial Mineral Research, and Cominco American conducted work on the Helmer-Bovill area deposits. In 1985-1986, the Erikson- Nisbet Partnership formed a consortium of companies to develop new processes for beneficiation of the clays, but the introduction of precipitated calcium carbonate fillers for paper reduced the demand for kaolin fillers.
Regional Geology
The regional geology is dominated by Precambrian sedimentary rocks of the Belt Supergroup (“Belt”), which have been strongly deformed and intruded with granitic phases of the Idaho Batholith during the Cretaceous age Sevier Orogeny.
During the Middle Proterozoic, the area was dominated by a large intra-cratonic basin that was subsiding along syn-sedimentary faults. The basin sediments comprise the Belt which range in age from about 1,470 to 1,400 Ma. The oldest units consist of the Lower Belt sequence, these are overlain by the Middle Belt Carbonates and the youngest are the Missoula Group.
The Belt sediments are believed to have remained relatively stable until approximately 1,350 Ma when portions of the basin were affected by compressional tectonics of the East Kootenay Orogeny. This orogeny was followed by rifting of the basin during the late Proterozoic-early Paleozoic when large portions of the sediments were transported away and the western margin of North America was developed.
The next major tectonic event occurred during the Cretaceous Sevier Orogeny. Early compressional tectonics dominated the area forming large-scale folds, reverse and thrust faults. During the late Cretaceous, the Bitterroot Lobe of the Idaho Batholith was emplaced in the region. The intrusive rocks described below were formed during this event.
The most recent, significant, geologic event was the deposition of the Columbia River Basalts (“CRB”). The CRB consist of a large plateau flow sequence of Miocene age (6 to 17 Ma). The lavas are distributed over an extensive area covering portions of Idaho, Oregon, and Washington. Minor extensional block faulting has resulted in much of the present landscape.
Local Geology
Belt Series
The Precambrian metasediments of the Belt series are the oldest rocks in the Bovill-Moscow area and form the basement for the entire area. The Belt series rocks crop out primarily in the northern and eastern sections of the Helmer-Bovill Property. They form a high-grade metamorphic facies assemblage that includes gneiss, schist, and minor meta-quartzite, meta-argillite, and meta-siltite.
Thatuna Granodiorite
Granitoid intrusive rocks of Cretaceous age underlie a large portion of the Helmer-Bovill area and form part of the Thatuna batholith. Thatuna lithologies consist predominantly of granodiorite with subordinate adamellite, tonalite, and granite. The principal mineral constituents are quartz, plagioclase feldspar, K-spar, and biotite with trace to minor amounts of muscovite, garnet, and epidote. The batholith is medium- to coarse-grained granular, and porphyritic textures are common. Erosion of the Thatuna batholith developed a mature topography where it is exposed in Latah County.
Recent geological mapping identified a previously undescribed phase of the Thatuna batholith, referred to as the Kmcp. The Kmcp is interpreted to be a border zone of the intrusion that occurs along the interface between the main-stage, coarse-grained, and porphyritic Thatuna batholith and the Precambrian Belt series roof rocks. Intrusion into cooler roof rocks resulted in a distinctive and texturally diverse unit characterized by dominant granular medium-grained and subordinate coarse-grained and pegmatoid textures, the lack of well-developed porphyritic textures and the presence of Precambrian xenolithic paragneiss, paraschist and metasiltite blocks inherited from the roof rocks. Where unaltered, the Kmcp intrusive rocks contain a primary assemblage of plagioclase, K-spar, quartz, biotite, and muscovite, and are predominantly of granodioritic to granitic composition. The porphyritic main body of the Thatuna batholith does not appear to crop out within the mapped part of the Helmer-Bovill area.
The Kmcp derives its distinctive character from high-level interaction with the Precambrian metasedimentary roof rocks. More rapid cooling in the contact zone produced a dominant medium-grained, non-porphyritic, granodioritic unit in contrast to the coarser-grained, porphyritic granodiorite lithology that characterizes the deeper main stage of the batholith. In the roof zone, hydrous mineral-bearing xenolithic blocks of the Precambrian Belt series metasediments were entrained by the intruding magma and outgassed of their volatile component. The outgassing contributes to the creation of pockets of hydrous granitic liquid proximal to the Precambrian blocks. These pockets crystallized subsequently into coarse-grained to pegmatoid granite pods that are distributed within the larger body of medium-grained granodiorite. Owing to the physicochemical conditions of crystallization within the hydrous pods of granitic liquid, the resultant solidified rocks show a stronger tendency toward higher proportions of K-feldspar relative to plagioclase and higher K2O/Na2O ratios than does the dominant medium-grained granodiorite.
Weathered Thatuna Granitoid
The exposed Thatuna batholith was subjected to intense weathering in a tropical or near-tropical climate during the Miocene epoch, while the Columbia River basalts were erupted and the Latah formation sediments were deposited. In response to the strong weathering, much of the feldspar and at least some of the mica in the igneous body were altered to one or more varieties of clay minerals. The depth limit of weathering may initially have been fairly consistent; however, subsequent erosion has left a variable weathering profile with thickness roughly dependent on topography. At present, the depth of weathering may exceed 100 ft. along ridges and be less than 3 ft. in some valleys.
Of particular importance is the weathering of the feldspar in the granitoids to halloysitic to kaolinitic clays. It was the presence of kaolinitic clay deposits that provided the initial impetus for economic mineral development in north Idaho. Plagioclase feldspar is the least stable phase in the weathering environment, and it alters to form clay well before K-spar and muscovite. K-spar and the micas are relatively resistant to alteration during all but the most intense weathering. Quartz is impervious to alteration throughout the weathering cycle. In the Helmer-Bovill area, pits that were mined for kaolin in residual deposits contained mostly quartz, halloysite, kaolinite, and K-spar. The waste material is primarily quartz and K-feldspar, with plagioclase accounting for only a minor proportion of the total feldspar.
Potato Hill Volcanics
The Potato Hill volcanic rocks contain silicic to intermediate volcanic rocks and include lava flow and pyroclastic flow units, as well as hypabyssal intrusive rocks. They form much of the rock along the western edge of the Helmer embayment at Potato Hill, and along the southern edge of the Thatuna. Many of the pyroclastic flows contain abundant xenolithic clasts of older granodiorite and Belt metasediments.
The individual flows are 3 to 50 ft. thick and the complete sequence exceeds 900 ft. in thickness. The flow units generally contain 3% to 10% phenocrysts of feldspar and quartz distributed in an aphanitic matrix of devitrified volcanic glass. Accessory minerals include magnetite, hornblende, apatite, and zircon. Some lithic-rich pyroclastic flow units carry up to 20% fragments. The saprolitic weathering that is well-developed in the older rocks has not appreciably affected the Potato Hill volcanics.
Columbia River Basalts
The First Normal member of the Grande Ronde formation, the Priest Rapids member of the Wanapum formation, and the Onaway member of the Saddle Mountain formation (oldest to youngest, respectively) are all Columbia River basalt flows mapped in the Helmer-Bovill area. The Grande Ronde formation flow occurs in the southern portion of the Helmer-Bovill area and consists of fine-grained to very fine-grained aphyric basalt. The Priest Rapids flow is a medium to course-grained basalt with microphenocrysts of plagioclase and olivine in a groundmass of intergranular pyroxene, ilmenite, and devitrified glass. It crops out in increasing abundance to the southwest toward Deary. Saddle Mountain basalts are found much further to the west. The importance of the Columbia River basalts to the genesis of the Latah formation is that the episodic basaltic extrusion dammed streams and formed lakes into which kaolin-rich sediments eroded from weathered granitoid and Precambrian metasediments were deposited.
Latah Formation
The Latah formation can be described as lake bed sediments that, although local in origin and distributed in disconnected basins, occur over an area 175 miles long and 75 miles wide in eastern Washington and northern Idaho. Episodic flows of the Columbia River basalts blocked streams and formed lakes that collected sediments eroded from surrounding rocks. In the Helmer-Bovill area, a major basin termed the Helmer embayment occurs over an area of approximately 25 to 30 square miles. Latah formation sediments are described as clay, silt, sand and minor gravel deposits that are laterally equivalent with and overlie flows of Columbia River basalts. The clays are white, yellow, red and brown in color, kaolinite-rich, and range from a few feet to several tens of feet in thickness.
Palouse Formation
The Palouse Formation comprises mixed loess and flood plain sediments of Pleistocene age. It ranges in thickness from 3 to 35 ft. in thickness and averages 10 ft. thick in the Helmer embayment. The unconsolidated layers also include volcanic ash from the eruption of various Cascade Range volcanoes.
Mineralization
The Helmer-Bovill Property hosts four different deposit types. These include primary Na-feldspar deposits, residual K-spar-quartz-kaolinite-halloysite deposits, transported clay deposits and K-spar-quartz tailings deposits (which are located at the WBL Tailings Project).
The primary Na-feldspar deposits are hosted within granitic border phases of the Thatuna granodiorite. The transported clay deposits are hosted primarily within the Latah formation. This formation was deposited primarily in shallow lakes dammed by Columbia River Basalts. Extensive weathering of feldspathic source terrains constitutes the provenance of these clays. The residual deposits are derived from saprolitic weathering of the Thatuna granodiorite-granitic phases. In general, Na-feldspar alters to kaolinite and halloysite. These clays are accompanied by residual K-spar and quartz and are the subject of this report.
The WBL Tailings Project hosts K-spar and quartz. The tailings were deposited on a gently east-northeast sloping hillside and also with an impoundment structure located at the base of the slope. Exploration trenches indicate the tailings are in excess of 17 ff. deep in most places. In general, the sloping portions of the tailings are composed of coarser material and the flat lying portions at the base of the slope are composed of relatively finder materials. The tailings appear to be continuous based on observations from test pits.
Feldspars
The unweathered Thatuna Batholith represents a source carrying a high total feldspar abundance, of which a significant proportion is Na-feldspar. In the strongly weathered Thatuna Batholith rocks plagioclase (Na-feldspar) shows nearly complete alteration to a kaolin mineral, but much of the K-spar survives alteration.
Quartz
Exploration and drilling results indicate that the quartz in the Thatuna batholithic rocks is relatively free of Fe-bearing mica or oxide inclusions. The analytical values for the trace elements in the quartz are very near or below detection limits for the electron microprobe and indicate that quartz from the Moose Meadows area is essentially free of impurities. This data suggests that the area has excellent potential to produce a glass-grade product that might be processed further into feed stocks for the high purity quartz market.
Clay Minerals
The kaolinite group of clay minerals includes four minerals that are similar chemically, but differ with regard to crystal structure. Two of these kaolinite group minerals, kaolinite and halloysite are the major clay minerals in the Helmer-Bovill area clay deposits. Crystal structure differences are important and control properties relevant to their commercial applications. Kaolinite occurs as distinct platelets, whereas halloysite forms tubes and spheroids. Although halloysite also has a plate-like crystal form, imperfections in its crystal lattice cause the crystal to “roll up” into the tubular forms. There are two varieties of halloysite, the four-water variety and the two-water variety. The two-water variety is a dehydrated version of the four-water halloysite and is almost impossible to distinguish from poorly crystallized kaolinite. Both varieties of tubular halloysite and poorly crystallized kaolinite exhibit poor viscosity.
Residual clays developed on weathered granitoid in the Helmer-Bovill area are a mixture of halloysite and kaolinite, with the concentration of total clay dependent upon the degree of weathering. Drilling shows that halloysite content decreases with depth as the effects of weathering diminish. In tests on two samples from the WBL north pit, GMT (2005) demonstrated that there is a significant halloysite fraction in the residual clay. The work done by GMT indicates that the quality of the residual clay from the WBL pit is high enough to be used in some high-end specialty paper, paint, and ceramic markets. Work done by I-Minerals and further continued by GMT show that a wet process using proven gravity separation equipment can produce a high-quality halloysite product that will gain attention of halloysite markets.
Deposit Type
The mineral deposit consists of residual deposits containing primarily K-spar, quartz and clays. The mineral deposit is underlain by the Thatuna Batholith, composed mainly of Na-feldspar, K-spar and quartz. Weathering has created a residual saprolite horizon which directly overlies the bedrock from which it was derived. During the natural processes of weathering, the original plagioclase feldspars (Na-feldspar) have preferentially broken down to produce the clays kaolinite and halloysite. The K-spars have resisted weathering to a degree and much of the original component remains as free grains. Similarly, the quartz component of the host rock remains as free grains in the weathered material.
Minerals of economic interest include the following:
Halloysite clay, an aluminosilicate with hollow tubular morphology in the submicron range
Kaolinite clay, hydrated aluminum silicate used in ceramics, rubber, plastics, etc and when calcined becomes a metakaolin clay, or dehydroxylated kaolin clay, which is reactive (Pozzolan) and enhances the strength, density and durability of concrete and ceramics
K-feldspar, uniquely suited to ceramic formulations requiring an alumina source
Quartz, silicon dioxide (SiO2) a component of various types of glass.
Exploration, Drilling and Bulk Sampling/Pilot Testing
Exploration Programs
During the period from 1999 through the end of 2001, the exploration work included the acquisition of over 6,000 acres of mineral lease applications, the compilation of an extensive file on the results of previous operations, and new drilling programs.
During 2002 and 2003, geologic mapping and petrographic studies were performed. An electron microprobe analytical study was conducted on field samples, quartz products and feldspar products from earlier work. Following petrographic and microprobe studies, select intervals of residual deposits from the 2000-2001 drilling program were sent to Mineral Resource Laboratory (MRL) for process testing.
Since 2003, all exploration work completed on the property has involved diamond core drilling. The Mineral Resource estimate in this study report is based on data and information gathered during these diamond drilling programs.
The exploration work we conducted was used to target generalized rock types and their weathering by-products. The work was successful in defining four target areas which were subsequently tested by diamond drilling. SRK Consulting (SRK) reviewed the exploration procedures and sampling methods as part of the pre-feasibility study completed in 2014 and found that the work was conducted by trained professionals to industry standards for a deposit of this type. SRK also stated that the exploration methods were successful in defining their intended targets and that similar techniques would be appropriate to expand the resource base if necessary.
Drilling Programs
During 2000-2001, a 41-hole diamond drill program was completed at the Property, focused on both bedrock feldspar deposits and residual deposits. Approximately 50% of the drill holes penetrated residual deposits at or very near the surface. A total of 4,063 ft. were drilled during this program. All holes were surveyed by Rim Rock Surveying.
In 2003, a 12-hole, diamond drill program was completed at the Project, testing for residual deposits over a broad area. A total of 1,333 ft. were drilled in this program. The core was split, sampled, and described in detail within a previous Technical Report and in petrographic reports prepared for I-Minerals All holes were surveyed with a hand held GPS with an accuracy of several meters.
In 2007, a 28-hole, diamond drill program was conducted to further evaluate the residual deposits. Six holes were located in the WBL Pit area on 200 to 600 ft spacing. The remaining holes were spread over the entire property to test those areas believed to be underlain by the weathered Thatuna granodiorite, establishing several new prospective areas. A total of 3,529 ft were drilled during this program. The six holes located at WBL Pit were surveyed by Jamar and Associates and all remaining holes were surveyed by handheld GPS with an accuracy of several meters.
In 2010, a 10-hole, diamond drilling program was completed in the WBL Pit and Middle Ridge areas. Five holes were completed in each area, on 400 to 900 ft spacing. A total of 1,195 ft were drilled in this program. All holes were surveyed by Taylor Engineering with a differential GPS with centimetre accuracy.
In 2011, a 66-hole, diamond drilling program was conducted in the WBL Pit and Middle Ridge areas. At Middle Ridge, 45 holes were drilled and at WBL, 21 holes were drilled. These holes were mostly located on 200 ft spacing with a few on 400 ft. A total of 7,747 ft were drilled during this program. All holes were surveyed by Taylor Engineering with a differential GPS with centimetre accuracy.
In 2013, a 167-hole, diamond drilling program was conducted in the Middle Ridge deposit and in two new areas referred to as Kelly’s Hump North and South. At Middle Ridge, 21 additional holes were completed to provide a drill pattern on 100 ft spacing in the area hosting higher halloysite grades. In the Kelly’s Hump area, a phase one program was completed with 17 holes spread though out the elevated area of the north south trending ridge. These were generally spaced at approximately 400-800 ft with all but one, located in the northern area. A Phase 2 program was completed with 113 additional holes on 100 ft spacing in the Kelly’s Hump North area, and 16 holes on 200 ft spacing in the Kelly’s Hump South area.. A total of 17,811 ft. were drilled during this program. The drill hole locations were first laid out by Taylor Engineering with a differential GPS and then once the drill rig was set up any offsets were measured with a tape measure.
The drillhole database supporting the resource estimation of this report consists of 322 diamond core drillholes totaling 35,909 ft. The shallowest hole is 20 ft, the deepest is 260 ft, and the average is 112 ft. All drillholes are oriented vertically and none of the holes have down hole deviation surveys. Since all of the drilling is relatively shallow the lack of down hole deviation survey has no material impact on the sample location. Since many of the older drillholes are located with a hand held GPS their elevations do not match the current, high resolution topographic surface. For this reason, all drillhole supporting the resource estimation of this report, are draped onto the high resolution topography to provide a uniform basis of elevation control. Typically, the sample recovery was very good ranging from 60 to 100%. The average core recovery is 87%.
Figure 4. Drill Hole Locations
Historical Testing
Various investigators have undertaken mineralogical, beneficiation, and product characterization testing programs on material taken from our Helmer-Bovill property. This testing includes primary material from the Bovill deposit, as well as secondary material-referred to as WBL Tailings-that was generated from a previous kaolin clay mining operation at the site during the 1960s and 1970s.
Much of the process developed to recover the minerals was conducted by two principal investigators: Ginn Mineral Technology (GMT) and the Mineral Research Laboratory (MRL) of North Carolina State University. GMT completed the developmental work on the clay (halloysite and kaolinite) circuit, using bench-scale (pounds of material) and pilot plant (hundreds of pounds) process demonstrations. Similarly, MRL carried out the development work on the sand circuit (k-spar and quartz), also employing bench-scale and pilot plant process demonstrations. Both service providers produced products of a suitable grade and quality for detailed characterization, and suitable for commercial production.
The bench-scale testwork conducted by GMT demonstrated the responsiveness of the clay to conventional physical and chemical beneficiation methods. The bench-scale testing results were further reinforced with five pilot plant demonstrations. The first two were conducted in July 2008 and July 2010, and were modest in scale. Subsequently, three additional small-scale pilot tests were conducted to explore alternative process flowsheet arrangements. The data generated from these tests confirmed the results of the previous tests, both quantitatively and qualitatively, including definition of the circuit for the recovery of halloysite.
Additional testing and development was conducted in 2011 and 2012 on bulk samples and composites to confirm previous work and generate material for product development. Process development work focused on assessing alternative physical separation technologies for the kaolinite/halloysite separation preparation. The results from this more recent testing confirmed the previous work, which improves the confidence in the viability of the process to generate saleable products.
Historical kaolinite mining activities on the property generated a feldspathic sand tailings material, which is referred to as WBL Tailings. These tailings are considered representative of the sand fraction of the material derived from the Bovill resource. Primary material from the historical WBL pit was also used in testing. The sand material was prepared from the sand separated from the clay as part of the clay testwork programs undertaken by GMT.
Initial testing on the WBL Tailings focused on recovery of K-feldspar from quartz including unit operations, operating conditions, and general equipment arrangement. A basic set of parameters for conventional beneficiation methods was established at the bench test level. Later, a comprehensive pilot plant campaign was undertaken based on the findings of the bench-scale testing. The objective was to determine engineering and operating data that would facilitate the design of a commercial process plant. A 35-ton bulk sample of WBL Tailings was processed on a continuous basis, facilitating the preparation of a sizable quantity of product concentrates as well as the optimization of unit operations. The process employed conventional unit operations and was successful in achieving the stated objectives.
MRL was also retained to provide design the quartz purification process. Mirroring previous development work on the K-feldspar flowsheet, MRL performed bench-scale testing to provide preliminary data to design and plan a more comprehensive pilot plant campaign. Pilot campaigns were conducted in late 2011 and again mid-2012, which demonstrated the ability to produce suitable quartz products from both WBL Tailings and primary material. Due to constraints on material, budget, and time, the processing regime was not optimised during these campaigns.
Initial Clay Testing
GMT reported on a clay processing pilot plant trial that used material sourced from the Kelly’s Hump location (Drill Hole RC13-5263). The sample was extracted from a depth of 10 ft to 15 ft and totalled about 12,000 lbs.
The primary purpose of the testwork was to optimize the separation of halloysite from kaolinite. Other stated objectives of the work were to optimize the brightness of the halloysite by employing physical and chemical beneficiation methods, and to produce a metakaolin product and assess its pozzolanic properties. The testing undertaken by GMT was conducted using American Society for Testing and Materials (ASTM) and Technical Association of the Pulp and Paper Industry (TAPPI) standards in line with previous testing campaigns and industry practice.
The bulk sample was processed to remove the sand component (+325 mesh). Reconciliation and mass balancing determined that approximately 78% of the feed mass reports to the +325 mesh sand fraction, with the other 22% reporting to the fine clay fraction. The sand fraction was then shipped to MRL for further feldspathic sand testing.
As shown in Table 0-2, a two-stage beneficiation process employing both centrifugation and differential flotation yielded the brightest product. Differential flotation also produced the highest grade halloysite, exceeding 90%. Final product processing then explored cleaning the concentrates with either acid leaching or magnetic separation, or cleaning them with a combined magnetic separation with acid leaching step. A single-stage processing route with magnetic separation alone was the most effective in improving the brightness of the finished products by removing mica gangue from the concentrate. Further improvements were realized with the inclusion of an acid leaching stage for the non-magnetic product. Finally, a coarse kaolinite product was prepared from the 3” hydrocyclone underflow for conversion into metakaolin. The sample was prepared by calcining the kaolinite at 850°C for appraisal as a pozzolanic material.
Table 0-2: Clay Processing Product Recoveries
The clay testwork demonstrated the ability to produce varying grades of halloysite and kaolinite concentrates. The extent of the process to be deployed in the commercial plant will largely be determined by the size and value of the halloysite product markets. Market research indicates that there is a market for both standard-grade and high-purity halloysite, and therefore, differential flotation is incorporated in the process flowsheet. Market research also shows that while there is a limited market for the type of kaolin produced from Bovill ores, there is a robust market for metakaolin. Therefore, all of the Bovill kaolin will be converted to metakaolin.
Current Testing
The current testwork is mainly focussed on the development of both sand and clay circuits, further product definition and characterization, and initial OEM equipment testing in preparation for detailed engineering. Previous testwork on the feldspathic sands provided engineering definition sufficient for the completion of engineering and feasibility assessment. However, additional testing in 2015 confirmed earlier results, optimized the processing scheme, and added some refinements regarding purification of the products.
Representative Sample Collection
In mid-2014, bulk metallurgical samples were collected from 9 trenches using an excavator. The trench locations were selected based on the local geology and results from adjacent drill holes. Selection of the sample locations was reviewed and approved by SRK’s Principal Resource Geologist, Dr. Bart Stryhas.
The mineral composition of the deposit is relatively homogeneous with the exception of halloysite content. The selected sample locations are in the expected mining areas, and either rich in halloysite (6 locations in the Kelly’s Hump area and two locations in the Middle Ridge area) or void of halloysite (one location in the Kelly’s Hump South area).
Depth of the ore-bearing layer, and depth of the overburden were also considered when selecting the sample locations. The depth to the ore layer (weathered granodiorite) was determined for each hole, and an excavator dug through the overburden to the top of the mineralized layer to approximately 5 feet below. The samples were collected, placed in large bulk bags, and shipped to GMT for clay and sand separation. The samples were not blended in the field, but were sent to GMT in three discrete samples; Kelly’s Hump (halloysite rich), Kelly’s Hump South (halloysite void), and Middle Ridge (halloysite rich). GMT processed the clay fraction and shipped the sand to MRL for additional bench and pilot scale testing.
While these samples cannot be considered statistically representative of the entire ore body, they are characteristic of the ore that is expected to be encountered during the mining and processing of the Bovill Project. The sampling techniques, and the metallurgical samples collected are considered suitable for bench and pilot plant metallurgical testing to define and confirm the process recovery scheme and final product quality.
Table 13-3: Current Testwork
Clay Processing
The samples described in Section 13.2.1 were shipped to GMT in Sandersville, Georgia, USA. GMT received 26.3 tons of Kelly’s Hump (halloysite-rich) material, 4.4 tons of Kelly’s Hump (void of halloysite) material, and 6.3 tons of Middle Ridge (halloysite-rich) material for production scale trials. Results of the trials were reported in January 2015.
Each of the three samples was treated individually. The halloysite-rich samples from Kelly’s Hump and Middle Ridge were treated in a similar manner, whereas the Kelly’s Hump South sample was treated using an abbreviated program due to its lack of contained halloysite.
Figure 13.3 presents the processing scheme used for the two samples containing halloysite, and Figure 13.4 presents the processing scheme for the Kelly’s Hump South sample.
Table 13-4 summarizes the key material balance data of the three samples after processing according the processing schemes presented above. The most significant difference in the products is the brightness values. At greater than 70% brightness, the Middle Ridge products were much higher than the other two resource products. Product from Kelly’s Hump South had the lowest brightness, at 47%.
Recovery of Clay Products
Combined clay products (halloysite together with kaolinite) in the ore account for 16-18% of the total feed. The clays are separated from the other constituents in the ore based on particle size and apparent density. Virtually 100% of the clay is recovered as standard purity halloysite, high purity halloysite or kaolinite (metakaolin).
The split of recovery between standard grade halloysite and high purity halloysite is dictated more by market conditions than any inherent differences in the products. The market for high purity halloysite will be satisfied first with the market for standard grade being satisfied on a secondary basis. If necessary, any remaining halloysite can be blended with kaolinite and calcined to create metakaolin.
Kaolinite recovery is 100% of this constituent in the ore with the only loss being in the calcining step, where the kaolinite is heated to about 850o Celsius. The conversion of kaolinite to metakaolin by calcining removes most of the water of hydration and results in approximately 10% loss of mass. As a result, the recovery of kaolinite is effectively 90% of the amount of kaolinite in the feed.
Sand Recovery
Feldspathic sand (k-feldspar together with quartz) makes up approximately 75% of the material in the ore. Processing of the sand involves separation of the quartz from the potassium feldspar and purification of the resulting separate streams. In this process there is removal and rejection of iron bearing minerals (muscovite and biotite) and losses of fines to the tailings stream. Testwork results show that the recovery of quartz and potassium feldspar from the ore feed is approximately 58.5% each which is equivalent to approximately 78% recovery from the sand component in the feed.
Overall Product Recovery
The sum of all products recovered from the feed ore is approximately 61%. The remaining 39% is lost to tailings as sand fines or impurities removed in the upgrading of the sand product
Table 13-4: Product Yields
As shown in Table 0-4, regardless of the ore source, the sand portion (+325 mesh), makes up 76-77% of the sample. This portion reports to the sand processing area of the plant. In the case of the 2014 bulk sample, the sand portion was shipped to MRL for further testing.
The clay fraction of the ore (-325 mesh) contains the kaolinite and halloysite clays in addition to grit, which is rejected in the 3” cyclone operation. The cyclone underflow, which contains the grit, reports to tailings and makes up approximately 4% of the ore (in the case of the 2014 bulk samples). This material is categorized as waste in the mineral resource and mineral reserve estimates. The 3” cyclone overflow contains the clays (18-20% of the total feed) which are further processed using a centrifuge to separate standard-grade (70%) halloysite (50% classification of overflow) and kaolinite (50% classification of underflow). The halloysite is further concentrated using differential flotation to high-purity halloysite (+90%). Recent tests by First Test Minerals showed 96% halloysite contained in a sample of high purity halloysite. Because essentially all of the material in the 3” cyclone overflow is recovered into one of the three final clay products, the process recovery of the clays from this point is 100%.
Drillhole Database
The drillhole database supporting the resource estimation consists of 338 diamond core drillholes totaling 37,416 ft. The shallowest hole is 20 ft, the deepest is 260 ft and the average is 111 ft. The block model was subdivided into four model areas based primarily on the geographic location and somewhat by sample support represented by the average drill spacing. The WBL area is drilled mainly on 200 ft centers. The Middle Ridge area has an inner portion drilled on 100 ft spacing which is flanked by drilling on 200 ft spacing. The Kelly’s Hump North area is mainly drilled on 100 ft spacing with one area drilled on 200 ft spacing. The Kelly’s Hump South area is all drilled on 200 ft spacing. Each sample within the drillhole database is characterized by the relative proportions of sand, kaolinite clay, halloysite clay, and waste. The sum of these four components equals 100% of each sample. These four variables were estimated as the resource material of this report.
Figure 14-1: Drillhole Locations (Black Dots), Clay Shell >=10% (Blue), Clay Shell >1-<10% (Teal Mineral Resources are classified under the categories of Measured, Indicated and Inferred according to CIM guidelines. Classification of the resources reflects the relative confidence of the grade estimates and the continuity of the mineralization. This classification is based on several factors, including sample spacing relative to geological and geo-statistical observations regarding the continuity of mineralization; data verification to original sources; specific gravity determinations; accuracy of drill collar locations; accuracy of topographic surface; quality of the assay data; and many other factors that may influence the confidence of the mineral estimation. No single factor controls the resource classification, but rather each factor influences the result.
The Mineral Resources are classified as “Measured” and “Indicated” based on the drillhole spacing. Measured resources are assigned where the average drillhole spacing is 100 ft. or less, while all other areas, where drillhole spacing averages 200 ft, are classified as “Indicated”.
Table 0-5: Indicated Mineral Resource Statement, (as of 26 October 2015)
Source: SRK
MINERAL RESERVE ESTIMATES
Pit Designs
Detailed pit designs were completed including three pit designs in the Kelly’s Hump area, one design in the South Kelly’s Hump area, and two designs in the Middle Ridge area. The total ultimate pit is considered the combination of the three designs and is below in the figure titled “Ultimate Pits and Dumps”.
Mineral Reserves
Mineral reserves for the project were developed by applying relevant economic criteria in order to define the economically extractable portions of the resource. MDA developed the reserves to meet NI 43-101 standards. The NI 43-101 standards rely on the CIM Definition Standards on Mineral Resources and Mineral Reserves adopted by the CIM council. CIM standards define Proven and Probable Mineral Reserves as follows:
Table 0-1 reports the Proven and Probable reserves based on the pit designs discussed in previous sections for each case. Table 0-2 shows the reserves and associated waste by pit phase. The reserves are shown to be economically viable based on cash flows provided by GBM. MDA has reviewed the cash flows and believes they are reasonable for the statement of Proven and Probable reserves.
Table 0-1: Proven and Probable Reserves
Notes on Mineral Reserves:
Reserves are based on a $57.00 NSR cutoff grade and pit designs.
Rounding of numbers in mineral reserves listed above may cause apparent inconsistencies
Table 0-2: Proven and Probable Reserves by Phase with Associated Waste
Cautionary Note to U.S. Investors: This section and other sections of this document contain the terms “measured mineral resources,” “indicated mineral resources,” “inferred mineral resources,” “proven mineral reserves,” and “probable mineral reserves” as defined in accordance with NI 43-101. Please note the following regarding these terms:
“Measured mineral resources” and “indicated mineral resources”. We advise U.S. investors that although these terms are recognized and required by Canadian regulations, these terms are not defined in SEC Industry Guide 7 and the SEC does not normally permit such terms to be used in reports and registration statements filed with the SEC. U.S. investors are cautioned not to assume that any part or all of the mineral deposits in these categories will ever be converted into reserves.
“Inferred mineral resources”. We advise U.S. investors that although this term is recognized by Canadian regulations, the SEC does not recognize it. “Inferred mineral resources” have a great amount of uncertainty as to their existence, and great uncertainty as to their economic and legal feasibility. It cannot be assumed that all or any part of an inferred mineral resource will ever be upgraded to a higher category. Under Canadian rules, estimates of inferred mineral resources may not form the basis of a feasibility study or pre-feasibility study, except in rare cases. The SEC normally only permits an issuer to report mineralization that does not constitute “reserves” as in-place tonnage and grade without reference to unit measures. U.S. investors are cautioned not to assume that any part or all of an inferred mineral resource exists or is economically or legally minable.
“Proven mineral reserves” and “probable mineral reserves”. The definitions of proven and probable mineral reserves used in NI 43-101 differ from the definitions for “proven reserves” and “probable reserves” as found in SEC Industry Guide 7. Accordingly, our disclosures of mineral reserves herein may not be comparable to information from U.S. companies subject to reporting and disclosure requirements of the SEC.
Cautionary Note To All Investors Concerning Economic Assessments That Include Mineral Resources: Mineral resources that are not mineral reserves have no demonstrated economic viability.
Material Types
Material was broken into ore and waste categories for the purpose of scheduling. The waste consists of material inside of pit designs that is not included in Proven and Probable reserves
Ore definition used a $57.00 cut-off grade to be consistent with Proven and Probable reserves. In addition, ore was further defined into Low-Sand (below 75% sands), Med-Sand (above 75% sands), and High-Sand (above 80% sands). These cut-off grades were chosen because they provided reasonable amounts of halloysite, kaolinite, and sand products within the pit designs. This was important to provide some variability for blending of materials to maintain a generally consistent blend of the three different products.
Mining Method
The Project is planned as an open-pit, truck and excavator operation. The truck and excavator method provides reasonable cost benefits and selectivity for this type of deposit. Only open-pit mining methods are considered for mining at Bovill.
The material to be mined consists of clays and soils, and as such, no drilling or blasting is anticipated. Most sampling will be done from mining faces, however some auger drilling will be done where additional ore control data is required.
Product Markets
Products to be recovered by the Bovill Kaolin Project operation include:
Quartz
Potassium feldspar (K-feldspar)
Metakaolin
Halloysite
Information for this marketing study has been taken from landscaping studies carried out by Charles River Associates; independent studies carried out by DURTEC and First Test Minerals Ltd; the Roskill database; and trade analysis, combined with our internal marketing data including interviews, meetings and background information from clients. Our customer marketing program has been ongoing for over five years, refining the products offered and markets to be served.
Quartz
All three grades of quartz are high-purity and low iron, and comparable to existing quartz products currently available in the marketplace from U.S.-based competitors. The grades all range from 99.86% to 99.97% silica (SiO2). The purest silica grade is aimed at high value markets, including chemicals manufacturing, solar glass, LCD, and lighting glass; while the other grades are potentially aimed at higher volume markets such as ceramics and container glass.
Through extensive market research, I-Minerals identified a potential market of 234,500 t/y, which more than covers the proposed production levels of 108,000 t/y. The majority of interest is for I-Minerals’ TrueQ™1 product, outlined at 126,000 t/y, which reflects the volume consumed by the glass industry. However, the focus of production will be on higher value applications, and interest has also been demonstrated for significant volumes of TrueQ™3.
The high-purity quartz market is very competitive, and I-Minerals will face aggressive competition from existing suppliers in the quartz markets, particularly to supply the high-purity quartz product, TrueQ™3. For sales into container glass and ceramics markets, transportation and logistics to volume quartz purchasers will be critical and form a significant portion of costs, especially to those located in eastern U.S.
Potassium Feldspar
The Project will produce high-grade K-feldspar, which gives it advantages over other feldspathic minerals in specialist ceramic and glass applications. Sources of K-feldspar are far less common than other feldspars, and it can therefore command a price premium. There is only one main supplier of high-grade K-feldspar in the U.S. (Pacer), although this material has a lower potassium oxide (K2O) content (minimum 9.5% K2O) than the proposed production from I-Minerals (minimum 13% K2O). Additional domestic demand for K-feldspar is met by imports.
Customer interest is varied, and includes a range of companies from major tableware and glass producers to smaller ceramic mineral suppliers, as well as more specialist applications. I-Minerals identified markets for 39,200 t/y of its K-feldspar products, Fortispar™, in the U.S. domestic market, representing over 83% of proposed production. There has also been interest in this product from export markets.
Metakaolin
Metakaolin, produced by calcining kaolin at 650-800°C, is a highly reactive pozzolan suitable for use as a cementing material in concrete. I-Minerals’ metakaolin grade meets the specifications and standards for the U.S. concrete industry. Metakaolin particles are nearly ten times smaller than cement particles, which enables the production of a denser, more impervious concrete that is more durable and also has superior mechanical properties than concrete produced with conventional cement. The addition of metakaolin also reduces the setting time for the concrete and the alkali-sulfate reaction. Metakaolin with a lower brightness, as will be produced by I-Minerals, is used in larger volume industrial applications in construction, and in structural concrete, such as bridge decks, tunnels, and cooling towers.
The metakaolin will compete with other pozzolans, such as fumed silica and flyash. Fumed silica is a much more expensive product, while flyash is cheaper but has limitations. Metakaolin is also produced in the State of Georgia, but this is a much whiter product, and finds applications in more decorative markets such as swimming pools and kitchen work surfaces. However, additional freight costs to the northwestern U.S. will make Georgia metakaolin a more expensive pozzolan in that region.
There has been significant interest in the proposed production from the Project, and a potential market has been identified that more than covers production, particularly in the northwestern U.S. The market identified is 71,451 t/y, although current production is forecast at 45,000 t/y. Prospective customers in Colorado, Montana, and Wyoming have expressed interest in metakaolin, particularly for use in mitigating the effects of acid-erosion. One of the main causes of concrete deterioration in the U.S. is from de-icing salt and marine salt.
Halloysite
Halloysite is derived from the weathering of feldspar to kaolinite, and subsequent additional weathering to halloysite. Halloysite is an alumina-silicate clay mineral, which occurs in a number of different colors. Commercial high-quality deposits are relatively rare and are currently mined in China, Turkey, New Zealand and the U.S.
The principal market for halloysite is in the production of porcelain and bone china, but more recently it has been used in technical ceramics for use in molecular sieves and in the manufacture of honeycomb catalysts.
Our halloysite has a unique structure which could be advantageous in securing new markets. It can be used as a carrier for active ingredients in cosmetics, personal care products, and pharmaceuticals; and has applications in nanotechnology, clean technologies, and environmental protection. Halloysite can also be used as a filler in polymers, and in trials, benefits have been demonstrated with its use in compounded polymers (for example nylon-6 and polypropylene). Its addition could be used to enhance flexural and impact strength. Our halloysite can also be used in volume market applications, such as animal feed and tile production. In tile production, halloysite produces a tough filter-cake, illustrative of its high green strength that imparts benefits in fast-fired tile production.
The market for our halloysite is one area where there could be significant upside potential when these developments in the life sciences, clean technologies, and nanotechnology are realized. However, many of these markets are currently in research and development, and are still unproven. Therefore, pricing levels and market sizes are speculative for the most part, and are not included as identified markets or for input into pricing models.
We have identified markets of 8,566 t for its halloysite grades, accounting for around 70% of its proposed production. Of this, 4,442 t are in North America, with larger volumes identified for fast-fired tiles and animal feed. Another 4,742 t are overseas, mainly in Europe, for higher value sales into polymer compounding. There are other potential market opportunities in South Korea, Taiwan, China, South America, and Europe, but these were not included in the total identified markets.
Commodity Prices
Unlike many other commodities, such as metals, grain, or oil, there are no fixed terminal or future exchanges, nor price indices, specifically for industrial minerals. Typically, the prices obtained from commodity exchanges can provide a bench-mark or reference point for the industry. However, in the industrial minerals industry, prices are dictated by confidential contracts between buyers and sellers, and are based on a number of factors including grades, quality, quantity, geographical location, and transportation mode (bulk, containers, bagged), and therefore, prices can vary widely with each transaction.
Due to the highly competitive nature of the industrial minerals industry, contract prices are highly confidential and not presented in public documents.
Indicated prices for quartz range widely and depend on a number of factors including both chemical and physical specification, volumes, and transportation mode (bulk, containers, bagged), amongst others. Based on indications from suppliers, prices range from US$120/t to over US$800/t. To achieve an average high-grade quartz price, a composite price was compiled from known data and weighted by the volumes and prices from various end use applications. These include solar glass, LCD, decorative and optical glass, borosilicate glass, and lighting glass. This average value excludes the flat glass volume market, which is our main sales focus, and the identified tonnage for this sector exceeds proposed production levels when cumulatively added to other market sectors. The incremental average value for the high-purity quartz grades is placed at US$295/t, ex-works. These identified markets cover 75% of proposed production assuming that I-Minerals will meet all the necessary specifications for these higher value markets.
Pricing of feldspar is also opaque, reflecting the varying specifications of the material (including alumina, sodium and potassium contents), and their physical characteristics and impurities. K-feldspar prices range from US$200/t to US$350/t. To achieve an average price, a composite price was compiled from known data and weighted by the volumes and prices from various end use applications. The incremental average value for the K-feldspar grades is placed at US$251/t, ex-works.
Historically, metakaolin prices in the U.S. have been based on the high-brightness, white kaolin produced in Georgia. However, we will produce a different product which is reflected in its price of US$225/t ex-works, and is based on an acceptance price by all those who committed to a letter of intent.
Pricing of halloysite is also complex, as many of the applications are developing, and there is a wide differential in price level depending on the amount of processing, specification, volume, and end-use industry. For volume applications, such as animal feed, average pricing is US$700-$720/t. For polymer pricing, the indications range between US$2,000-$6,000/t, illustrating the wide variation. For the purposes of pricing the halloysite, a weighted average is used, which would include bulk volumes at lower prices and include allowances for some much lower volume sales at higher values into the identified markets. This method gives an average price of US$1,054/t for the halloysite into potential identified markets across the board.
Capital Cost Summary
The total initial capital investment for the Project is estimated to be US$108,123,204. Sustaining capital of US$11,775,070 is required, bringing the total LoM capital investment to US$120,033,272.
The total LoM capital for the Project is reported in Table 0-3. The total expenditure shown accounts for sustaining capital planned to be spent over the 26 years of operation.
Table 0-3 Capital Cost Estimate
Operating Cost Estimate
The total operating cost for the Project is summarized in Table 0-4 and graphically presented in Figure 21-1.
Table 0-4 OPEX Summary
Note: Based on nameplate 346,000 tpa throughput
The economic analysis was conducted over a range of discount rates, and results are presented in Table 0-5. Sensitivity analyses were conducted on the base case to demonstrate the sensitivity of the Project’s NPV to increases or decreases in the operating income, OPEX, CAPEX, recovery, and/or average product price.
Table 0-5 DCF Model Results
At a 6% discount rate, the model shows a post-tax NPV of US$249.8 million with an IRR of 25.8%, and payback period of 3.7 years. This result reflects an economically feasible project, and justifies advancing to the next step of development
GBM considers that the Bovill Kaolin Project has demonstrated, to within ±15% accuracy, the potential to profitably mine and process the various ore deposits. A variety of end markets have been identified for the quartz, K-feldspar, metakaolin, and halloysite products produced by the proposed operation, with product pricing typical within the industrial minerals industry.
Of particular note is that all recovered material in the resource estimation contains sufficient sand, kaolinite, or halloysite to be profitably mined. In addition, the current mineral reserve estimate reflects limitations to existing, yet potentially expanding, markets as the mineral resource has the ability to support a larger operation.
Based on the mineral reserves and mine plan, approximately 5.3 million tons of mineral product will be produced over the anticipated mine life of 26 years. The economic analysis returned a post-tax NPV of US$249.8 million and an IRR of 25.8%.
The Project is most sensitive to product recovery rate and the average product price. The project is less sensitive to capital expenditure, process operating cost, and mining operating cost.
This result reflects a technically and economically feasible project, which GBM recommends to move to further investment and development.
Current Activities
Bovill Kaolin Project
Based on the results of the 2016 FS, which demonstrate that the Project is both technically and economically feasible, it is recommended that I-Minerals pursue a program of further investment and development to complete the engineering, procurement and construction of the Project. The following activities are recommended to be undertaken as early as possible in the next phase of development, as both have schedule and completion impacts:
Confirmation testwork needs to be completed for final equipment selection, as well as to finalize the process plant water balance and utilities consumptions. The confirmation testwork is expected to cost about US$100,000 and take approximately 4 months to complete.
Activities required to bring electricity and gas to the site should be expedited, as this currently impacts the overall project completion.
Pilot plant work is ongoing at MRL in North Carolina to confirm product quality characteristics and generate additional samples for our continued product marketing efforts. We have also initiated preliminary contact with institutional investors that may have an interest in participating in the debt or equity components of the Capital Costs. The detailed engineering and construction time is forecast to be a minimum of 18 months and a maximum of 30 months from the completion of the production financing to raise the capital costs as set out in the 2016 FS. The estimated cost for the completion of longer lead time engineering work, utilities surveys, marketing work and financing activities (general and admin) set forth below:
Study Items
Project Costs
Project Management
$340,000
Marketing
540,000
Conceptual Engineering
100,000
Environmental and Permitting
120,000
Electrical and Gas Studies
100,000
Hydrogeological Work
60,000
Metallurgical Testwork
260,000
General & Admin
920,000
Total Cost
$2,440,000
In addition to the above expenditures, we are reviewing the potential of undertaking a land swap with the IDL wherein we would buy a property within Latah County of equal value to our Helmer Bovill property and trade this property for the surface rights at Helmer Bovill. Owning the surface rights at Helmer Bovill may reduce the bonding requirements and strengthen our land tenure. The estimated cost of such land swap would be $3 to $4 million of which about 25% would need to be paid as earnest money in the next 12 months.
WBL Tailings Project
We plan to continue production of the sand tailings at the WBL Tailings Project. In April 2014, we entered into a new contract with Pre-Mix for the sale of up to 30,000 tons per annum of screened K-spar / quartz sand. Under the terms of the contract, Pre-Mix is solely responsible for the operating costs to process and remove the K-spar / quartz sand.
In order to excavate the sand tailings at the WBL Tailings Project, Pre-Mix uses its own backhoe, trucks and screen to remove the sand tailings. As a result, production facilities are not required to excavate the sand tailings from the WB Tailings Project.
To date, we have sold a total of 1,456 tons of sand tailings to Pre-Mix for total revenues of $1,456.
Item 3.