ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
Permian Basin - Project Pangea
Our properties in the Permian Basin are located in Crockett and Schleicher Counties, Texas. We began operations in the Permian Basin through a farm-in agreement for 27,000 net acres in 2004 and have since increased our total acreage position to approximately 138,000 gross (126,000 net) acres as of year-end 2015. At December 31, 2015, we owned interests in approximately 803 gross (791 net) wells, all of which we operate. As of December 31, 2015, we had working and net revenue interests of approximately 100% and 76%, respectively, across Project Pangea.
Our acreage position in the Permian Basin is characterized by several commercial hydrocarbon zones, including the Clearfork, Dean, Wolfcamp shale, Canyon Sands, Strawn and Ellenburger zones. When we began drilling our Permian Basin properties in 2004, we targeted the Canyon Sands, Strawn and Ellenburger zones at depths ranging from 7,250 feet to 8,900 feet with vertical wells.
In 2010, we performed a detailed geological and petrophysical evaluation of the Clearfork, Dean and Wolfcamp shale formations above the Canyon Sands, Strawn and Ellenburger, and in 2011, we began drilling horizontal wells targeting the Wolfcamp shale. The Wolfcamp shale is a source rock that we believe has significant potential for hydrocarbons. The Wolfcamp shale is located in the oil-to-wet gas window across our Permian acreage position and is naturally fractured due to its proximity to the Ouachita-Marathon thrust belt and mineralogy, specifically the carbonate and quartz minerals.
The Wolfcamp shale has gross pay thickness of approximately 1,000 to 1,200 feet across our acreage position, which allows for horizontal drilling and stacked horizontal wellbores targeting varied zones that we call “benches.” We believe effectively developing the Wolfcamp shale may involve up to three lateral wellbores, each targeting a different bench, which we refer to as the Wolfcamp A, B and C. Since we began drilling horizontal Wolfcamp wells in 2011 through December 31, 2015, we have drilled and completed a total of 16 wells targeting the Wolfcamp A bench, 105 wells targeting the Wolfcamp B bench and 43 wells targeting the Wolfcamp C bench; and, as a result, our proved reserves attributable to the horizontal Wolfcamp play have increased.
The following table summarizes our estimated proved reserves attributable to the horizontal Wolfcamp shale oil play, compared to our estimated proved reserves attributable to vertical development for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013.
During 2015, we incurred costs of approximately $139.1 million to drill 20, and complete 28, horizontal Wolfcamp wells. At December 31, 2015, we had five horizontal Wolfcamp wells waiting on completion. We resumed drilling in 2016, and currently have one rig running in Project Pangea. We expect to release this rig in the first quarter of 2016.
East Texas Basin - North Bald Prairie
In July 2007, we entered into a joint venture with EnCana Oil & Gas (USA) Inc. (“EnCana”) in Limestone and Robertson Counties, Texas, in the East Texas Cotton Valley trend. We began drilling operations in August 2007. We have drilled and completed 11 gross wells, including one well completed as a saltwater disposal well. We have a 50% working interest and approximately 40% net revenue interest in the approximately 3,000 gross (2,000 net) acre project. In 2012, EnCana assigned its interest in the project to a third party. As of December 31, 2015, we had estimated proved reserves of 457 MMcf in North Bald Prairie. Our primary targets in North Bald Prairie are the Cotton Valley Sands and Cotton Valley Lime. We currently have no rigs running in North Bald Prairie.
Proved Oil and Gas Reserves
The following table sets forth summary information regarding our estimated proved reserves as of December 31, 2015. See Note 10 to our consolidated financial statements in this report for additional information. Our reserve estimates and our calculation of standardized measure and PV-10 are based on the 12-month average of the first-day-of-the-month pricing of $50.16 per Bbl West Texas Intermediate posted oil price, $15.13 per Bbl received for NGLs and $2.64 per MMBtu Henry Hub spot natural gas price during 2015. All prices were adjusted for energy content, quality and basis differentials by area and were held constant through the lives of the properties. Natural gas is converted at a rate of six Mcf of gas to one barrel of oil equivalent (“Boe”). NGLs are converted at a rate of one barrel of NGLs to one Boe. The ratios of six Mcf of gas to one Boe and one barrel of NGLs to one Boe do not assume price equivalency and, given price differentials, the price for a Boe of natural gas or NGLs may differ significantly from the price of a barrel of oil. The information in the following table is not intended to represent the current market value of our proved reserves nor does it give any effect to or reflect our commodity derivatives or current commodity prices.
Summary of Oil and Gas Reserves as of Fiscal-Year End
Based on Average Fiscal-Year Prices
(1) The gas reserves contain 42,617 MMcf of gas that will be produced and used as field fuel (primarily for compressors and artificial lifts) before the gas is delivered to a sales point.
(2) See “Reconciliation of PV-10 to Standardized Measure” below for a reconciliation of PV-10 to the standardized measure.
Our estimated total proved reserves of oil, NGLs and natural gas as of December 31, 2015, were 166.6 MMBoe, made up of 33% oil, 30% NGLs and 37% natural gas. The proved developed portion of total proved reserves at year-end 2015 was 37%.
Extensions and discoveries for 2015 were 34.9 MMBoe, primarily attributable to our development project in the Wolfcamp shale oil resource play in the Permian Basin. During 2015, we recorded net downward revisions totaling 8.7 MMBoe, including the reclassification of 11.9 MMBoe of proved reserves to unproved reserves. The reserves reclassified are attributable to horizontal and vertical well locations in Project Pangea that are no longer expected to be developed within five years from their initial booking, as required by SEC rules. Revisions also included 13 MMBoe of positive revisions resulting from cost reductions, updated well performance and technical parameters, offset by 9.8 MMBoe of negative revisions due to lower commodity prices. We produced 5.8 MMBoe during 2015. This production included 1,530 MMcf of gas that was produced and used as field fuel (primarily for compressors and artificial lift) before the gas was delivered to a sales point.
Reconciliation of PV-10 to Standardized Measure
PV-10 is our estimate of the present value of future net revenues from proved oil and gas reserves after deducting estimated production and ad valorem taxes, future capital costs and operating expenses, but before deducting any estimates of future income taxes. PV-10 is a non-GAAP, financial measure and generally differs from the standardized measure, the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure, because it does not include the effects of income taxes on future cash flows. PV-10 should not be considered as an alternative to the standardized measure as computed under GAAP.
We believe PV-10 to be an important measure for evaluating the relative significance of our oil and gas properties and that the presentation of PV-10 provides useful information to investors because it is widely used by professional analysts and sophisticated investors in evaluating oil and gas companies. Because there are many unique factors that can impact an individual company when estimating the amount of future income taxes to be paid, we believe the use of a pre-tax measure is valuable for evaluating our company. We believe that most other companies in the oil and gas industry calculate PV-10 on the same basis.
The following table provides a reconciliation of PV-10 to the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows at December 31, 2015:
Proved Undeveloped Reserves
As of December 31, 2015, we had 104.8 MMBoe of proved undeveloped (“PUD”) reserves, which is an increase of 18.8 MMBoe, or 22%, compared with 86 MMBoe of PUD reserves at December 31, 2014. All of our PUD reserves at December 31, 2015, were associated with our core development project, Project Pangea.
The following table summarizes the changes in our PUD reserves during 2015.
The following table sets forth our PUD reserves converted to proved developed reserves during 2015, 2014 and 2013 and the net investment required to convert PUD reserves to proved developed reserves during each year.
Estimated future development costs relating to the development of PUD reserves are projected to be approximately $84.7 million in 2016, $175.2 million in 2017 and $254.8 million in 2018. We monitor fluctuations in commodity prices, drilling and completion costs, operating expenses and drilling success to determine adjustments to our drilling and development project.
Preparation of Proved Reserves Estimates
Internal Controls Over Preparation of Proved Reserves Estimates
Our policies regarding internal controls over the recording of reserve estimates require reserve estimates to be in compliance with SEC rules, regulations and guidance and prepared in accordance with “Standards
Pertaining to the Estimating and Auditing of Oil and Gas Reserves Information (Revision as of February 19, 2007)” promulgated by the Society of Petroleum Engineers (“SPE standards”). Our proved reserves are estimated at the property level and compiled for reporting purposes by our corporate reservoir engineering staff, all of whom are independent of our operations team. We maintain our internal evaluations of our reserves in a secure reserve engineering database. The corporate reservoir engineering staff interacts with our internal staff of operations engineers and geoscience professionals and with accounting employees to obtain the necessary data for the reserves estimation process. Our internal professional staff works closely with our external engineers to ensure the integrity, accuracy and timeliness of data that is furnished to them for their reserve estimation process. All of the reserve information maintained in our secure reserve engineering database is provided to the external engineers. In addition, other pertinent data is provided such as seismic information, geologic maps, well logs, production tests, material balance calculations, well performance data, operating procedures and relevant economic criteria. We make available all information requested, including our pertinent personnel, to the external engineers as part of their evaluation of our reserves.
Our Senior Vice President of Engineering, Troy Hoefer, is the individual responsible for overseeing the preparation of our reserve estimates and for internal compliance of our reserve estimates with SEC rules, regulations and SPE standards. Mr. Hoefer has a Bachelor of Science degree in Petroleum Engineering from the Colorado School of Mines and more than 25 years of industry experience. Mr. Hoefer reports to our Chief Operating Officer. Our executive management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Operating Officer, reviews and approves our reserves estimates, including future development costs, before these estimates are finalized and disclosed in a public filing or presentation. Our Chief Executive Officer, J. Ross Craft, P.E., is a licensed Professional Engineer with a Bachelor of Science Degree in Petroleum Engineering from Texas A&M University and more than 30 years of industry experience. Our Chief Operating Officer, Qingming Yang, earned his B.S. in Petroleum Geology from Chengdu University of Technology in the People’s Republic of China, his M.A. in Geology from George Washington University and his Ph.D. in Structural Geology from the University of Texas at Dallas. Dr. Yang has more than 25 years of industry experience.
For the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, we engaged DeGolyer and MacNaughton, independent petroleum engineers, to prepare independent estimates of the extent and value of the proved reserves associated with certain of our oil and gas properties. In 2015, DeGolyer and MacNaughton reported to the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors and to our Senior Vice President of Engineering. The Audit Committee meets with the independent engineering firm to, among other things, review and consider the processes used by the engineers in the preparation of the report and any matters of importance that arose in the preparation of the report, including whether the independent engineering firm encountered any material problems or difficulties in the preparation of their report. The Audit Committee’s review specifically includes difficulties with the scope or timeliness of the information furnished to them by the Company or any restrictions on access to information placed upon them by any Company personnel, any other difficulties in dealing with any Company personnel in the preparation of the report and any other matters of concern relating to the preparation of the report. The Audit Committee also determines whether the Company or its management or senior engineering personnel had similar or other problems or concerns regarding the independent engineering firm and the preparation of their report. See Third-Party Reports below for further information regarding DeGolyer and MacNaughton’s report.
Technologies Used in Preparation of Proved Reserves Estimates
Estimates of reserves were prepared in compliance with SEC rules, regulations and guidance and SPE standards. The method or combination of methods used in the analysis of each reservoir was tempered by experience with similar reservoirs, stage of development, quality and completeness of basic data and production history. For our properties, structure and isopach maps were constructed to delineate each reservoir. Electrical logs, radioactivity logs, seismic data and other available data were used to prepare these maps. Parameters of area, porosity and water saturation were estimated and applied to the isopach maps to obtain estimates of original oil in place or original gas in place. For developed producing wells whose performance disclosed a reliable decline in producing-rate trends or other diagnostic characteristics, reserves were determined using decline curve
analysis. Reserves for producing wells whose performance was not yet established and for undeveloped locations were estimated using type curves. The parameters needed to develop these type curves such as initial decline rate, “b” factor and final decline rate were based on nearby wells producing from the same reservoir and with a similar completion for which more data were available.
Reporting of NGLs
We produce NGLs as part of the processing of our natural gas. The extraction of NGLs in the processing of natural gas reduces the volume of natural gas available for sale. At December 31, 2015, NGLs represented approximately 30% of our total proved reserves on a Boe basis. NGLs are products sold by the gallon. In reporting proved reserves and production of NGLs, we include these volumes and production as Boe. The prices we received for a standard barrel of NGLs in 2015 averaged approximately 72% lower than the average prices for equivalent volumes of oil. We report all production information related to natural gas net of the effect of any reduction in natural gas volumes resulting from the processing of NGLs.
Third-Party Reports
For the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, we engaged DeGolyer and MacNaughton, independent petroleum engineers, to prepare estimates of the extent and value of the proved reserves of certain of our oil and gas properties, including 100% of our total reported proved reserves. DeGolyer and MacNaughton’s report for 2015 is included as Exhibit 99.1 to this annual report on Form 10-K.
Oil and Gas Production, Production Prices and Production Costs
The following table sets forth summary information regarding oil, NGL and gas production, average sales prices and average production costs for the last three years. We determined the Boe using the ratio of six Mcf of natural gas to one Boe, and one barrel of NGLs to one Boe. The ratios of six Mcf of natural gas to one Boe and one barrel of NGLs to one Boe do not assume price equivalency and, given price differentials, the price for a Boe for natural gas or NGLs may differ significantly from the price for a barrel of oil.
(1) Gas production excludes gas produced and used as field fuel (primarily for compressors and artificial lifts) before the gas was delivered to a sales point.
(2) Production cost per Boe is made up of lease operating expenses and excludes production and ad valorem taxes.
Drilling Activity - Prior Three Years
The following table sets forth information on our drilling activity for the last three years. The information should not be considered indicative of future performance, nor should it be assumed that there is necessarily any correlation between the number of productive wells drilled, quantities of reserves found or economic value.
(1) The Company encountered mechanical issues while drilling the wells classified as dry in 2015, 2014 and 2013.
Of the 20 productive wells drilled in 2015, five wells were waiting on completion at December 31, 2015. The Company encountered mechanical issues while drilling one well in 2015, two wells in 2014 and five wells in 2013, and these wells cost $2.4 million, $5.6 million and $12.4 million, respectively.
Although a well may be classified as productive upon completion, future changes in oil, NGL and gas prices, operating costs and production may result in the well becoming uneconomical.
Drilling Activity - Current
As of the date of this report, we had one horizontal rig running in the Permian Basin targeting the Wolfcamp shale oil resource play.
Delivery Commitments
We are not committed to provide a fixed and determinable quantity of oil, NGLs or gas under existing agreements. However, as of December 31, 2015, we had dedicated all of our oil production from northern Project Pangea and Pangea West through 2022 to JP Energy and had dedicated all of our NGLs and natural gas production from Project Pangea to DCP through July 2023.
Producing Wells
The following table sets forth the number of producing wells in which we owned a working interest at December 31, 2015. Wells are classified as natural gas or oil according to their predominant production stream.
Acreage
The following table summarizes our developed and undeveloped acreage as of December 31, 2015.
Undeveloped Acreage Expirations
The following table sets forth the number of gross and net undeveloped acres as of December 31, 2015, which will expire over the next three years by project area, unless production is established before lease expiration dates. Net amounts may be greater than gross amounts in a particular year due to timing of expirations.
The expiring acreage set forth in the table above accounts for 28% of our net acreage, and less than 1% of our PUD reserves. Of the 30,480 net acres scheduled to expire in 2017, 16,844 net acres are leased from The Board for Lease of University Lands (“University Lands”) under a Drilling and Development Unit Agreement (“D&D agreement”). Under the D&D agreement, we are required to drill and complete two wells per calendar year until September 2017, and in September 2017, we will present a development plan to University Lands that will outline a proposed capital budget and drilling schedule for the following year. Upon approval of the plan of development by University Lands (not to be unreasonably withheld), the development plan will become the drilling obligation for the following year. We are generally engaged in a combination of drilling and development and discussions with mineral lessors for lease extensions and renewals to address the expiration of undeveloped acreage that occurs in the normal course of our business.
ITEM 3.