Item 2. Properties.
We currently do not own any real property. We currently sub lease on a month to month basis an office space located at Suite 880, 580 Hornby Street, Vancouver, BC Canada V6C 3B6, consisting of approximately 256 square feet at a cost of $1,500 per month. We currently lease on a month to month basis an office space located at 13403 N. Government Way, Suite 102, Hayden, ID 83835, consisting of approximately 800 square feet at a cost of $1,000 per month.
HELMER-BOVILL PROPERTY
We own a 100% interest in our lead mineral project called the Helmer-Bovill Property. Our activities at the Helmer-Bovill Property are focused on developing the Bovill Kaolin Project and the WBL Tailings Project, which are located within the Helmer-Bovill Property.
The mineral leases are in good standing until March 1, 2023 at which time they will be held by us contingent on production pursuant to the statutory language of Idaho Code 47-704(2).
The technical information appearing below concerning the Helmer-Bovill Property is derived from the April 17, 2019 report 43-101 Resource Technical Report Re-issue Bovill Kaolin Project, Idaho Report Prepared by SRK Consulting (U.S.), Inc. SRK Project Number: 165800.110 Signed by Qualified Persons: Matthew Hastings, MSc Geology, MAusIMM (CP) Brooke Miller Clarkson, MSc, CPG Reviewed by: William Cain, BSc Geology
Description of Property
The Helmer-Bovill Property is a development stage open pit mining operation which will produce sand, kaolinite clay and halloysite clay. The area has been mined historically for similar products.
The Helmer-Bovill Property is located at geographical coordinates 46° 53' 14.7" N. latitude and 116° 28’ 11.7" W longitude (State Plane, NAD 83, Zone 1103, Idaho West: 1 900 717 N, 2 454 671 E) in Latah County, Idaho, USA. The property currently totals 5,140.6 acres. The mineral leases are not adjoining but are situated within three surveyed townships near the town of Bovill, Idaho.
Figure 1. Location of the Helmer-Bovill Property
Figure 2. Location of Mineral Leases
The Helmer-Bovill Property area is located on endowment lands owned and administered by the IDL. These and other IDL holdings across the state of Idaho were granted to the state in 1890 by the federal government on the condition they produce maximum long-term financial returns for public schools and other beneficiaries. Therefore, IDL has a mandate for these lands to produce revenue to support the state’s public-school system and other state institutions. To achieve this, IDL manages these properties primarily for profit through the production of timber, livestock grazing, and the extraction of mineable materials.
The State of Idaho endowments lands fall in two categories referred to as Fee Simple (FS) and Minerals Only (MO). The FS lands are where the State owns both mineral and surface rights. The MO lands are where the State owns mineral rights but someone else owns surface rights. The majority of the lands held by us are FS. All mineral resources and mineral reserves described in this report are located on FS lands. By way of our mineral leases, we have surface rights and legal access to the Helmer-Bovill Property provided it meets all permitting and bonding requirements administered by IDL. In the State of Idaho, mineral leases are not required to be physically located in the field. The mineral leases are currently described only on paper by the U.S. Public Land Survey Grid.
In 2002, we acquired from IIM, through our wholly owned subsidiary i-Minerals USA Inc., 16 State of Idaho mineral lease applications in Latah County, Idaho, to cover deposits of feldspar, kaolin, and quartz located near Bovill, Idaho. In 2003, we converted these applications to ten mineral leases and subsequently obtained two more mineral leases. Renewal applications for all 12 leases were filed on April 27, 2012 with a US$3,000 application fee. As part of the renewal process, Idaho converted the 12 mineral leases into 10 revised mineral leases which were issued on February 28, 2013. Subsequently, during 2013 the State of Idaho granted one additional mineral lease to us. At this time, we hold 11 mineral leases totaling 5,140.64 acres. All current leases are valid until 2023. Due to recent changes in the law, we are exploring various options for renewal. All leases are subject to rental fees of US$1.00/acre/y and a production royalty of 5% of gross proceeds.
The production royalty is prepaid at a rate of US$500 per lease for the first five years, and increases to US$1,000 per lease for the second five years of the lease. The surface rights of the 11 mineral leases are owned by both the State of Idaho and some private landowners. However, the surface right of the mineral leases specific to the resource estimation contained in this report are all owned and administered by the State of Idaho. The U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (“USACE”) owns the surface rights of all waterways located within the mineral lease boundaries.
The details of the mineral leases that comprise the Helmer-Bovill Property are summarized below:
Mineral Lease No.
FS / MO
Acres
E410005
FS
172.00
E410006
FS
377.75
E410007
FS
140.00
E410007
FS
260.00
E410008
FS
370.80
E410008
FS
160.00
E410008
FS
53.17
E410009
MO
80.00
E410009
MO
280.00
E410009
MO
269.50
E410010
FS
242.44
E410010
FS
242.52
E410010
FS
40.00
E410010
FS
80.00
E410011
FS
117.19
E410011
FS
438.73
E410012
MO
41.41
E410012
MO
80.00
E410013
FS
240.00
E410013
FS
400.00
E410014
FS
413.78
E410014
FS
161.35
E410015
FS
480.00
Location, Access and Infrastructure
The Project is located near the town of Bovill, Idaho, and is accessed by road by following Idaho State Highway 8 (ID-8) west for 0.4 mi, then turning right (west) on Moose Creek Road/National Forest Road 381 and following for 5.5 miles. ID-8 is an improved two-lane road, while Moose Creek Road/National Forest Development Road 381 is a dirt/gravel road that provides access to State and Federal lands. In addition, access to specific areas to be mined will require either upgrades to former logging roads or construction of new access roads.
The nearest, large communities are Moscow, Idaho, which lies about 28 miles west-southwest of the Property, and Lewiston, Idaho, which lies about 33 miles to the southwest. Transport to the Helmer-Bovill Property would utilize standard over-highway vehicles.
Electric power would be provided by Avista Corp. We would be required to share in the costs in the construction of four miles of power lines, including a 2 mile 115 kv line to a substation, and a 2 mile 24 kv line from the substation to the plant site.
Natural gas is available to the Helmer-Bovill Property from a natural gas pipeline that extends from Moscow to Bovill and is available to be utilized for this processing facility. Approximately two miles of pipeline would need to be constructed.
Water required for processing will primarily come from a small reservoir north of the Project site. New wells located at the process plant site will provide potable water. Groundwater from drilled wells is typically used to serve domestic needs within the vicinity of the Project.
The region has a long history of clay production, forestry and farming. A labor force skilled in heavy equipment operation, trucking, and general labor exists within the surrounding communities and rural areas.
There are several suitable locations for potential tailings storage, mining waste disposal, and potential processing plants.
Climate and Physiography
The climate at the Project site, as described by the nearby Natural Resources Conservation Services Sherwin 752 weather station, is characterized by an average annual precipitation of 40.02 inches, with the highest values recorded between October and March. The annual minimum and maximum temperatures are 30.4°F and 55.3°F, respectively; with average monthly minimum and maximum temperatures ranging from 16.4°F to 42.6°F and 30.3°F to 83.2°F, respectively.
Available records (1952 to 2010) from the Elk River weather station indicate an average total snowfall ranging from 0.1 inch in October to 27.5 inches in February, with a monthly maximum snowfall of 88 inches. Average snow depth ranges from 1 inch in November to 75 inches in February.
The average elevation is about 3,000 ft. above mean sea level, with a topographic relief of about 200 ft. The area is largely covered with soil, but old workings (pits and trenches) and road cuts provide exposure to the underlying bedrock geology. The Helmer-Bovill Property is located on the west side of the Potlatch River drainage area.
The Helmer-Bovill Property area consists of low foothills and ridges alternating with relatively wide, flat basins. Forested areas occupy the slopes and ridge tops which are managed primarily for timber production. Conifer forest makes up approximately 50% of the overall Helmer-Bovill Property area. Forest stands were observed to be early seral, highly fragmented, and lacking in the ecological functions and values of older, more contiguous forests. Grasslands occur in the basins alongside sinuous intermittent and perennial stream channels. The Helmer-Bovill Property area is currently permitted for livestock grazing. Most of the Helmer-Bovill Property area has been disturbed by previous mining, forestry and grazing activities and, as such, contain predominantly disturbance oriented plant communities. Non-forested meadows or pasture areas are intensively grazed resulting in a proliferation of non-native vegetation and soil compaction and erosion.
Surface waters primarily consist of small, meandering, intermittent stream channels that flow toward the Potlatch River. These channels are typically located in the level “flats” between low hills or ridgelines and dry up by mid or late summer. Most streams are hydrologically altered by high- density road construction, historic mining, and cattle grazing. Grazing has also eliminated much of the woody growth along most stream channels resulting in eroded channels and sedimentation. Other surface waters include several old clay mining pits and small dams that have developed into water catchment basins as well as emergent wetlands flanking the stream channels. Groundwater appears in scattered locations as either springs or seepage discharge along streams or edges of wetlands. Native soils predominate in the area.
History
U.S. Bureau of Mines (“USBM”) and United States Geological Survey (“USGS”) (1942-1947)
During World War II, the clays in eastern Washington and northern Idaho were examined as a possible source of alumina and a substitute for foreign bauxite ores. Domestic bauxite reserves were being depleted, and the importation of foreign bauxites was handicapped by transportation difficulties. Both the USGS and USBM conducted extensive field studies that were followed by the drilling of 650 holes that totaled about 20,252 ft.
USBM (1953-1963)
In 1953 the USBM continued their search for viable clay deposits. They also investigated the potential of the contained silica sand for the glass industry. The USBM tested the Benson and Olsen clay deposits between Troy and Deary, and then moved on to the Bovill deposits. Ninety-seven samples were collected from 1,325 ft. of drilling over an area covering 750 ft. x 350 ft. that is located 1.5 miles southwest of Bovill near State Highway 8.
A.P. Green Refractories Company (1956-1993)
In 1956, A.P. Green Refractories Company purchased all the remaining assets of Troy Brick and Clay and acquired a lease, being located north of Helmer, from which they produced refractory clay. They processed the clay by air flotation to produce two grades of refractory clay. Production continued until the early 1990’s when Hammond Engineering purchased one pit from A.P. Green. This pit produced transported clay for ceramic applications. Total production from the area during this period is estimated to be 250,000 tons.
J.R. Simplot Company (1956-1974)
In 1956, the J.R. Simplot Company (“Simplot”) of Boise, Idaho, acquired leases covering the Bovill deposits. In a cooperative program, Simplot and USBM drilled 240 holes (99 of which were on 50 ft. centers) and conducted washing, pyrometric, mineralogical, and beneficiation tests. By 1962, Simplot had built a clay plant, the Miclasil facility, for the production of paper fillers and specialty ceramics. Production initially came from pits in the Bovill deposit, which are in transported clay of the Latah formation directly south of the plant. Simplot shifted production to residual clay deposits in the granodiorite, as this source proved more satisfactory for paper filler. The pits exploited by Simplot for residual clays were the WBL north and south pits and the Moose Creek Clay Mine, and the Stanford pit. Simplot operated their plant until 1974, when it was sub-leased to Clayburn Industries of British Columbia. Clayburn operated the property only a few years, calcining clay that was shipped to Canada and processed into super-duty and 70% alumina bricks. In 1994 the plant was dismantled and the property partially reclaimed.
Several Companies (1983-1986)
During the mid-1980’s, a number of companies began exploration work in the Helmer-Bovill area to identify clays suitable for use as paper fillers and coaters. The University of Indiana, Nord Resources, Miles Industrial Mineral Research, and Cominco American conducted work on the Helmer-Bovill area deposits. In 1985-1986, the Erikson- Nisbet Partnership formed a consortium of companies to develop new processes for beneficiation of the clays, but the introduction of precipitated calcium carbonate fillers for paper reduced the demand for kaolin fillers.
Regional Geology
The regional geology is dominated by Precambrian sedimentary rocks of the Belt Supergroup (“Belt”), which have been strongly deformed and intruded with granitic phases of the Idaho Batholith during the Cretaceous age Sevier Orogeny.
During the Middle Proterozoic, the area was dominated by a large intra-cratonic basin that was subsiding along syn-sedimentary faults. The basin sediments comprise the Belt which range in age from about 1,470 to 1,400 Ma. The oldest units consist of the Lower Belt sequence, these are overlain by the Middle Belt Carbonates and the youngest are the Missoula Group.
The Belt sediments are believed to have remained relatively stable until approximately 1,350 Ma when portions of the basin were affected by compressional tectonics of the East Kootenay Orogeny. This orogeny was followed by rifting of the basin during the late Proterozoic-early Paleozoic when large portions of the sediments were transported away and the western margin of North America was developed.
The next major tectonic event occurred during the Cretaceous Sevier Orogeny. Early compressional tectonics dominated the area forming large-scale folds, reverse and thrust faults. During the late Cretaceous, the Bitterroot Lobe of the Idaho Batholith was emplaced in the region. The intrusive rocks described below were formed during this event.
The most recent, significant, geologic event was the deposition of the Columbia River Basalts (“CRB”). The CRB consist of a large plateau flow sequence of Miocene age (6 to 17 Ma). The lavas are distributed over an extensive area covering portions of Idaho, Oregon, and Washington. Minor extensional block faulting has resulted in much of the present landscape.
Local Geology
Belt Series
The Precambrian metasediments of the Belt series are the oldest rocks in the Bovill-Moscow area and form the basement for the entire area. The Belt series rocks crop out primarily in the northern and eastern sections of the Helmer-Bovill Property. They form a high-grade metamorphic facies assemblage that includes gneiss, schist, and minor meta-quartzite, meta-argillite, and meta-siltite.
Thatuna Granodiorite
Granitoid intrusive rocks of Cretaceous age underlie a large portion of the Helmer-Bovill area and form part of the Thatuna batholith. Thatuna lithologies consist predominantly of granodiorite with subordinate adamellite, tonalite, and granite. The principal mineral constituents are quartz, plagioclase feldspar, K-spar, and biotite with trace to minor amounts of muscovite, garnet, and epidote. The batholith is medium- to coarse-grained granular, and porphyritic textures are common. Erosion of the Thatuna batholith developed a mature topography where it is exposed in Latah County.
Recent geological mapping identified a previously undescribed phase of the Thatuna batholith, referred to as the Kmcp. The Kmcp is interpreted to be a border zone of the intrusion that occurs along the interface between the main-stage, coarse-grained, and porphyritic Thatuna batholith and the Precambrian Belt series roof rocks. Intrusion into cooler roof rocks resulted in a distinctive and texturally diverse unit characterized by dominant granular medium-grained and subordinate coarse-grained and pegmatoid textures, the lack of well-developed porphyritic textures and the presence of Precambrian xenolithic paragneiss, paraschist and metasiltite blocks inherited from the roof rocks. Where unaltered, the Kmcp intrusive rocks contain a primary assemblage of plagioclase, K-spar, quartz, biotite, and muscovite, and are predominantly of granodioritic to granitic composition. The porphyritic main body of the Thatuna batholith does not appear to crop out within the mapped part of the Helmer-Bovill area.
The Kmcp derives its distinctive character from high-level interaction with the Precambrian metasedimentary roof rocks. More rapid cooling in the contact zone produced a dominant medium-grained, non-porphyritic, granodioritic unit in contrast to the coarser-grained, porphyritic granodiorite lithology that characterizes the deeper main stage of the batholith. In the roof zone, hydrous mineral-bearing xenolithic blocks of the Precambrian Belt series metasediments were entrained by the intruding magma and outgassed of their volatile component. The outgassing contributes to the creation of pockets of hydrous granitic liquid proximal to the Precambrian blocks. These pockets crystallized subsequently into coarse-grained to pegmatoid granite pods that are distributed within the larger body of medium-grained granodiorite. Owing to the physicochemical conditions of crystallization within the hydrous pods of granitic liquid, the resultant solidified rocks show a stronger tendency toward higher proportions of K-feldspar relative to plagioclase and higher K2O/Na2O ratios than does the dominant medium-grained granodiorite.
Weathered Thatuna Granitoid
The exposed Thatuna batholith was subjected to intense weathering in a tropical or near-tropical climate during the Miocene epoch, while the Columbia River basalts were erupted and the Latah formation sediments were deposited. In response to the strong weathering, much of the feldspar and at least some of the mica in the igneous body were altered to one or more varieties of clay minerals. The depth limit of weathering may initially have been fairly consistent; however, subsequent erosion has left a variable weathering profile with thickness roughly dependent on topography. At present, the depth of weathering may exceed 100 ft. along ridges and be less than 3 ft. in some valleys.
Of particular importance is the weathering of the feldspar in the granitoids to halloysitic to kaolinitic clays. It was the presence of kaolinitic clay deposits that provided the initial impetus for economic mineral development in north Idaho. Plagioclase feldspar is the least stable phase in the weathering environment, and it alters to form clay well before K-spar and muscovite. K-spar and the micas are relatively resistant to alteration during all but the most intense weathering. Quartz is impervious to alteration throughout the weathering cycle. In the Helmer-Bovill area, pits that were mined for kaolin in residual deposits contained mostly quartz, halloysite, kaolinite, and K-spar. The waste material is primarily quartz and K-feldspar, with plagioclase accounting for only a minor proportion of the total feldspar.
Potato Hill Volcanics
The Potato Hill volcanic rocks are silicic to intermediate volcanic rocks and include lava flow and pyroclastic flow units, as well as hypabyssal intrusive rocks. They form much of the rock along the western edge of the Helmer embayment at Potato Hill, and along the southern edge of the Thatuna. Many of the pyroclastic flows contain abundant xenolithic clasts of older granodiorite and Belt metasediments.
The individual flows are 3 to 50 ft. thick and the complete sequence exceeds 900 ft. in thickness. The flow units generally contain 3% to 10% phenocrysts of feldspar and quartz distributed in an aphanitic matrix of devitrified volcanic glass. Accessory minerals include magnetite, hornblende, apatite, and zircon. Some lithic-rich pyroclastic flow units carry up to 20% fragments. The saprolitic weathering that is well-developed in the older rocks has not appreciably affected the Potato Hill volcanics.
Columbia River Basalts
The First Normal member of the Grande Ronde formation, the Priest Rapids member of the Wanapum formation, and the Onaway member of the Saddle Mountain formation (oldest to youngest, respectively) are all Columbia River basalt flows mapped in the Helmer-Bovill area. The Grande Ronde formation flow occurs in the southern portion of the Helmer-Bovill area and consists of fine-grained to very fine-grained aphyric basalt. The Priest Rapids flow is a medium to course-grained basalt with microphenocrysts of plagioclase and olivine in a groundmass of intergranular pyroxene, ilmenite, and devitrified glass. It crops out in increasing abundance to the southwest toward Deary. Saddle Mountain basalts are found much further to the west. The importance of the Columbia River basalts to the genesis of the Latah formation is that the episodic basaltic extrusion dammed streams and formed lakes into which kaolin-rich sediments eroded from weathered granitoid and Precambrian metasediments were deposited.
Latah Formation
The Latah formation can be described as lake bed sediments that, although local in origin and distributed in disconnected basins, occur over an area 175 miles long and 75 miles wide in eastern Washington and northern Idaho. Episodic flows of the Columbia River basalts blocked streams and formed lakes that collected sediments eroded from surrounding rocks. In the Helmer-Bovill area, a major basin termed the Helmer embayment occurs over an area of approximately 25 to 30 square miles. Latah formation sediments are described as clay, silt, sand and minor gravel deposits that are laterally equivalent with and overlie flows of Columbia River basalts. The clays are white, yellow, red and brown in color, kaolinite-rich, and range from a few feet to several tens of feet in thickness.
Palouse Formation
The Palouse Formation comprises mixed loess and flood plain sediments of Pleistocene age. It ranges in thickness from 3 to 35 ft. in thickness and averages 10 ft. thick in the Helmer embayment. The unconsolidated layers also include volcanic ash from the eruption of various Cascade Range volcanoes.
Mineralization
The Helmer-Bovill Property hosts four different deposit types. These include primary Na-feldspar deposits, residual K-spar-quartz-kaolinite+/-halloysite deposits, transported clay deposits and K-spar-quartz tailings deposits (which are located at the WBL Tailings Project).
The primary Na-feldspar deposits are hosted within granitic border phases of the Thatuna granodiorite. The transported clay deposits are hosted primarily within the Latah formation. This formation was deposited primarily in shallow lakes dammed by Columbia River Basalts. Extensive weathering of feldspathic source terrains constitutes the provenance of these clays. The residual deposits are derived from saprolitic weathering of the Thatuna granodiorite-granitic phases. In general, Na-feldspar alters to kaolinite and halloysite. These clays are accompanied by residual K-spar and quartz and are the subject of this report.
The WBL Tailings Project hosts K-spar and quartz, some clay and mica, and minor amounts of plagioclase. The tailings were deposited on a gently east-northeast sloping hillside and also with an impoundment structure located at the base of the slope. Exploration trenches indicate the tailings are in excess of 17 ft. deep in most places. In general, the sloping portions of the tailings are composed of coarser material and the flat lying portions at the base of the slope are composed of relatively finder materials. The tailings appear to be continuous based on observations from test pits.
Feldspars
The unweathered Thatuna Batholith represents a source carrying a high total feldspar abundance, of which a significant proportion is Na-feldspar. In the strongly weathered Thatuna Batholith rocks plagioclase (Na-feldspar) shows nearly complete alteration to a kaolin mineral, but much of the K-spar survives alteration.
Quartz
Exploration and drilling results indicate that the quartz in the Thatuna batholithic rocks is relatively free of Fe-bearing mica or oxide inclusions. The analytical values for the trace elements in the quartz are very near or below detection limits for the electron microprobe and indicate that quartz from the Moose Meadows area is essentially free of impurities. This data suggests that the area has excellent potential to produce a glass-grade product that might be processed further into feed stocks for the high purity quartz market.
Clay Minerals
The kaolinite group of clay minerals includes four minerals that are similar chemically, but differ with regard to crystal structure. Two of these kaolinite group minerals, kaolinite and halloysite are the major clay minerals in the Helmer-Bovill area clay deposits. Crystal structure differences are important and control properties relevant to their commercial applications. Kaolinite occurs as distinct platelets, whereas halloysite forms tubes and spheroids. Although halloysite also has a plate-like crystal form, imperfections in its crystal lattice cause the crystal to “roll up” into the tubular forms. There are two varieties of halloysite, the four-water variety and the two-water variety. The two-water variety is a dehydrated version of the four-water halloysite and is almost impossible to distinguish from poorly crystallized kaolinite. Both varieties of tubular halloysite and poorly crystallized kaolinite exhibit poor viscosity.
Residual clays developed on weathered granitoid in the Helmer-Bovill area are a mixture of halloysite and kaolinite, with the concentration of total each dependent upon the degree of weathering. Drilling shows that halloysite content decreases with depth as the effects of weathering diminish. In tests on two samples from the WBL north pit, GMT (2005) demonstrated that there is a significant halloysite fraction in the residual clay. The work done by GMT indicates that the quality of the residual clay from the WBL pit is high enough to be used in some high-end specialty paper, paint, and ceramic markets. Work done by I-Minerals and further continued by GMT show that a wet process using proven gravity separation equipment can produce a high-quality halloysite product that will gain attention of halloysite markets.
Deposit Type
The mineral deposit consists of residual deposits containing primarily K-spar, quartz and clays. The mineral deposit is underlain by the Thatuna Batholith, composed mainly of plagioclase feldspar, K-spar and quartz. Weathering has created a residual saprolite horizon which directly overlies the bedrock from which it was derived. During the natural processes of weathering, the original plagioclase feldspars have preferentially broken down to produce the clays kaolinite and halloysite. The K-spars have resisted weathering to a degree and much of the original component remains as free grains. Similarly, the quartz component of the host rock remains as free grains in the weathered material.
Exploration, Drilling and Bulk Sampling/Pilot Testing
Exploration Programs
During the period from 1999 through the end of 2001, the exploration work included the acquisition of over 6,000 acres of mineral lease applications, the compilation of an extensive file on the results of previous operations, and new drilling programs.
During 2002 and 2003, geologic mapping and petrographic studies were performed. An electron microprobe analytical study was conducted on field samples, quartz products and feldspar products from earlier work. Following petrographic and microprobe studies, select intervals of residual deposits from the 2000-2001 drilling program were sent to Mineral Resource Laboratory (MRL) for process testing.
Since 2003, all exploration work completed on the property has involved diamond core drilling. The Mineral Resource estimate included in the 2016 FS is based on data and information gathered during these diamond drilling programs.
The exploration work we conducted was used to target generalized rock types and their weathering by-products. The work was successful in defining four target areas which were subsequently tested by diamond drilling. SRK Consulting (SRK) reviewed the exploration procedures and sampling methods as part of the pre-feasibility study completed in 2014 and found that the work was conducted by trained professionals to industry standards for a deposit of this type. SRK also stated that the exploration methods were successful in defining their intended targets and that similar techniques would be appropriate to expand the resource base if necessary.
Drilling Programs
During 2000-2001, a 41-hole diamond drill program was completed at the Project, focused on both bedrock feldspar deposits and residual deposits. Approximately 50% of the drill holes penetrated residual deposits at or very near the surface. A total of 4,063 ft. were drilled during this program. All holes were surveyed by Rim Rock Surveying.
In 2003, a 12-hole, diamond drill program was completed at the Project, testing for residual deposits over a broad area. A total of 1,333 ft. were drilled in this program. The core was split, sampled, and described in detail within a previous Technical Report and in petrographic reports prepared for I-Minerals. All holes were surveyed with a hand held GPS with an accuracy of several meters.
In 2007, a 28-hole, diamond drill program was conducted to further evaluate the residual deposits. Six holes were located in the WBL Pit area on 200 to 600 ft spacing. The remaining holes were spread over the entire property to test those areas believed to be underlain by the weathered Thatuna granodiorite, establishing several new prospective areas. A total of 3,529 ft were drilled during this program. The six holes located at WBL Pit were surveyed by Jamar and Associates and all remaining holes were surveyed by handheld GPS with an accuracy of several meters.
In 2010, a 10-hole, diamond drilling program was completed in the WBL Pit and Middle Ridge areas. Five holes were completed in each area, on 400 to 900 ft spacing. A total of 1,195 ft were drilled in this program. All holes were surveyed by Taylor Engineering with a differential GPS with centimetre accuracy.
In 2011, a 66-hole, diamond drilling program was conducted in the WBL Pit and Middle Ridge areas. At Middle Ridge, 45 holes were drilled and at WBL, 21 holes were drilled. These holes were mostly located on 200 ft spacing with a few on 400 ft. A total of 7,747 ft were drilled during this program. All holes were surveyed by Taylor Engineering with a differential GPS with centimetre accuracy.
In 2013, a 167-hole, diamond drilling program was conducted in the Middle Ridge deposit and in two new areas referred to as Kelly’s Hump North and South. At Middle Ridge, 21 additional holes were completed to provide a drill pattern on 100 ft spacing in the area hosting higher halloysite grades. In the Kelly’s Hump area, a phase one program was completed with 17 holes spread though out the elevated area of the north south trending ridge. These were generally spaced at approximately 400-800 ft with all but one, located in the northern area. A Phase two program was completed with 113 additional holes on 100 ft spacing in the Kelly’s Hump North area, and 16 holes on 200 ft spacing in the Kelly’s Hump South area. A total of 17,811 ft. were drilled during this program. The drill hole locations were first laid out by Taylor Engineering with a differential GPS and then once the drill rig was set up any offsets were measured with a tape measure.
The drillhole database supporting the resource estimation of this report consists of 322 diamond core drillholes totaling 35,909 ft. The shallowest hole is 20 ft, the deepest is 260 ft, and the average is 112 ft. All drillholes are oriented vertically and none of the holes have down hole deviation surveys. Since all of the drilling is relatively shallow the lack of down hole deviation survey has no material impact on the sample location. Since many of the older drillholes are located with a hand held GPS their elevations do not match the current, high resolution topographic surface. For this reason, all drillhole supporting the resource estimation of this report, are draped onto the high resolution topography to provide a uniform basis of elevation control. Typically, the sample recovery was very good ranging from 60 to 100%. The average core recovery is 87%.
Figure 3. Drill Hole Locations
Mineral Processing and Historical Testing
Various investigators have undertaken mineralogical, beneficiation, and product characterization testing programs on material taken from our Helmer-Bovill property. This testing includes primary material from the Bovill deposit, as well as secondary material-referred to as WBL Tailings-that was generated from a previous kaolin clay mining operation at the site during the 1960s and 1970s.
Much of the process developed to recover the minerals was conducted by two principal investigators: Ginn Mineral Technology (GMT) and the Mineral Research Laboratory (MRL) of North Carolina State University. GMT completed the developmental work on the clay (halloysite and kaolinite) circuit, using bench-scale (pounds of material) and pilot plant (hundreds of pounds) process demonstrations. Similarly, MRL carried out the development work on the sand circuit (k-spar and quartz), also employing bench-scale and pilot plant process demonstrations. Both service providers produced products of a suitable grade and quality for detailed characterization, and suitable for commercial production.
The bench-scale testwork conducted by GMT demonstrated the responsiveness of the clay to conventional physical and chemical beneficiation methods. The bench-scale testing results were further reinforced with five pilot plant demonstrations. The first two were conducted in July 2008 and July 2010 and were modest in scale. Subsequently, three additional small-scale pilot tests were conducted to explore alternative process flowsheet arrangements. The data generated from these tests confirmed the results of the previous tests, both quantitatively and qualitatively, including definition of the circuit for the recovery of halloysite.
Additional testing and development was conducted in 2011 and 2012 on bulk samples and composites to confirm previous work and generate material for product development. Process development work focused on assessing alternative physical separation technologies for the kaolinite/halloysite separation preparation. The results from this more recent testing confirmed the previous work, which improves the confidence in the viability of the process to generate saleable products.
Historical kaolinite mining activities on the property generated a feldspathic sand tailings material, which is referred to as WBL Tailings. These tailings are considered representative of the sand fraction of the material derived from the Bovill resource. Primary material from the historical WBL pit was also used in testing. The sand material was prepared from the sand separated from the clay as part of the clay testwork programs undertaken by GMT.
Initial testing on the WBL Tailings focused on recovery of K-feldspar from quartz including unit operations, operating conditions, and general equipment arrangement. A basic set of parameters for conventional beneficiation methods was established at the bench test level. Later, a comprehensive pilot plant campaign was undertaken based on the findings of the bench-scale testing. The objective was to determine engineering and operating data that would facilitate the design of a commercial process plant. A 35-ton bulk sample of WBL Tailings was processed on a continuous basis, facilitating the preparation of a sizable quantity of product concentrates as well as the optimization of unit operations. The process employed conventional unit operations and was successful in achieving the stated objectives.
MRL was also retained to provide design the quartz purification process. Mirroring previous development work on the K-feldspar flowsheet, MRL performed bench-scale testing to provide preliminary data to design and plan a more comprehensive pilot plant campaign. Pilot campaigns were conducted in late 2011 and again mid-2012, which demonstrated the ability to produce suitable quartz products from both WBL Tailings and primary material. Due to constraints on material, budget, and time, the processing regime was not optimized during these campaigns.
Current Testing
The current testwork is mainly focused on the development of both sand and clay circuits, further product definition and characterization, and initial Original Equipment Manufacturer (OEM) equipment testing in preparation for detailed engineering. Previous testwork on the feldspathic sands provided engineering definition sufficient for the completion of engineering and feasibility assessment. Additional testing in 2015 confirmed earlier results, optimized the processing scheme, and added some refinements regarding purification of the products.
Representative Sample Collection
In mid-2014, bulk metallurgical samples were collected from 10 trenches using an excavator. The trench locations were selected based on the local geology and results from adjacent drill holes.
The mineral composition of the deposit is relatively homogeneous with the exception of halloysite content. The selected sample locations are in the expected mining areas, and either rich in halloysite (seven locations in the Kelly’s Hump area and two locations in the Middle Ridge area) or void of halloysite (one location in the Kelly’s Hump South area).
Depth of the ore-bearing layer, and depth of the overburden were also considered when selecting the sample locations. The depth to the ore layer (weathered granodiorite) was determined for each hole, and an excavator dug through the overburden to the top of the mineralized layer to approximately 5 feet below. The samples were collected, placed in large bulk bags, and shipped to GMT for clay and sand separation. The samples were not blended in the field, but were sent to GMT in three discrete samples; Kelly’s Hump (halloysite rich), Kelly’s Hump South (halloysite void), and Middle Ridge (halloysite rich). GMT processed the clay fraction and shipped the sand to MRL for additional bench and pilot scale testing.
While these samples cannot be considered statistically representative of the entire ore body, they are characteristic of the minable material that is expected to be encountered during the mining and processing of the Bovill Project during the initial mining phase. The sampling techniques, and the metallurgical samples collected are considered suitable for bench and pilot plant metallurgical testing to define and confirm the process recovery scheme and final product quality.
GMT reported on a clay processing pilot plant trial that used material sourced from the Kelly’s Hump location (Drill Hole RC13-5263). The sample was extracted from a depth of 10 ft to 15 ft and totaled about 12,000 lbs.
The primary purpose of the testwork was to optimize the separation of halloysite from kaolinite. Other stated objectives of the work were to optimize the brightness of the halloysite by employing physical and chemical beneficiation methods, and to produce a metakaolin product and assess its pozzolanic properties. The testing undertaken by GMT was conducted using American Society for Testing and Materials (ASTM) and Technical Association of the Pulp and Paper Industry (TAPPI) standards in line with previous testing campaigns and industry practice.
The bulk sample was processed to remove the sand component (+325 mesh). Reconciliation and mass balancing determined that approximately 78% of the feed mass reports to the +325 mesh sand fraction, with the other 22% reporting to the fine clay fraction. The sand fraction was then shipped to MRL for further feldspathic sand testing.
A two-stage beneficiation process employing both centrifugation and differential flotation yielded the brightest product. Differential flotation also produced the highest grade halloysite, exceeding 90%. Final product processing then explored cleaning the concentrates with either acid leaching or magnetic separation, or cleaning them with a combined magnetic separation with acid leaching step. A single-stage processing route with magnetic separation alone was the most effective in improving the brightness of the finished products by removing mica gangue from the concentrate. Further improvements were realized with the inclusion of an acid leaching stage for the non-magnetic product. Finally, a coarse kaolinite product was prepared from the 3” hydrocyclone underflow for conversion into metakaolin. The sample was prepared by calcining the kaolinite at 850°C for appraisal as a pozzolanic material.
The clay testwork demonstrated the ability to produce varying grades of halloysite and kaolinite concentrates. The extent of the process to be deployed in the commercial plant will largely be determined by the size and value of the halloysite product markets. Market research indicates that there is a market for both standard-grade and high-purity halloysite, and therefore, differential flotation is incorporated in the process flowsheet. Market research also shows that while there is a limited market for the type of kaolin produced from Bovill ores, there is a robust market for metakaolin. Therefore, all of the Bovill kaolin will be converted to metakaolin.
Comminution
Comminution testing consisted of a rod mill grinding test on sand to determine a work index and testing of ROM samples in an impact crusher to determine specific power requirements and the ability to produce crushed ore of the required size specification.
In 2008, a sample was collected from drill core from three drillholes in the Kelly’s Basin area. In total, 34 intervals were sampled and composited into feldspar/quartz sand sample. Although Kelly’s Basin is not considered as feed for the clay processing plant, the sand derived from this area is considered to be representative of the sand in the Project feed, since all of the materials in the area are a result of surface weathering of the Thatuna Batholith.
The 2008 sample of feldspar/quartz sand was tested by Hazen Research in Golden, Colorado using a modified Bond Rod Mill Work Index (RWi) determination procedure. There was a screen mesh modification made from the standard procedure in order to represent the product size required for the process.
In 2015, an approximately 2.000 lb bulk sample of material of similar composition to ores from the proposed mining areas was collected from the proposed plant site area and provided to Stedman Machine Company for impact crushing testing, as well as determination of the angle of repose, drawdown angle, and other crushed ore physical characteristics. The sample was successfully crushed to a passing size. The information was used to specify the type and size of the appropriate machine for crushing service.
Clay Processing
Clay samples were shipped to GMT in Sandersville, Georgia, USA. GMT received 26.3 tons of Kelly’s Hump (halloysite-rich) material, 4.4 tons of Kelly’s Hump (void of halloysite) material, and 6.3 tons of Middle Ridge (halloysite-rich) material for production scale trials. Results of the trials were reported in January 2015.
Each of the three samples was treated individually. The halloysite-rich samples from Kelly’s Hump and Middle Ridge were treated in a similar manner, whereas the Kelly’s Hump South sample was treated using an abbreviated program due to its lack of contained halloysite.
The most significant difference in the products is the brightness values. At greater than 70% brightness, the Middle Ridge products were much higher than the other two resource products. Product from Kelly’s Hump South had the lowest brightness, at 47%.
Sand Processing
In the current testing program, two distinct projects were assigned to MRL to process the sand provided from the pilot plant work performed at GMT. The first project was to produce quartz products on a bench-scale from each of the three ore bodies (designated Kelly’s Hump North or Kelly’s Hump, Middle Ridge, and Kelly’s Hump South or Kelly’s Hump Void) while the second project was to produce quartz products on a pilot scale using a composite consisting of all three ore bodies. Combining all of the ores for the pilot plant was required because the amount of sand material received from the GMT pilot plant clay/sand separation suitable for MRL processing was insufficient for individual ore processing.
Once processing commenced, the sample results had a lower K-feldspar to quartz ratio than prior testing. This is considered to be a result of the sample coming from upper portions of the ore body and inefficiencies in the clay/sand separation at pilot scale at GMT. However, suitable K-feldspar grade was recovered during the course of several trial runs and used for further product development.
The lower K-feldspar recoveries were further examined through additional evaluation work to ensure that adequate K-feldspar is contained in the deposits. This work was performed by Process Mineralogical Consulting Ltd. and their results confirmed the ample presence of K-feldspar throughout the deposit.
Quartz processing data was not as affected by these issues although more residual K-feldspar was present in the feedstock to the quartz circuit as a result of difficulties incurred with the K-feldspar circuit.
Tailings Thickening and Filtration
A tailings composite sample was prepared by combining various tailing streams produced from pilot and bench testing in representative proportions to create a tailings sample for further testing. This procedure was necessary since the pilot testing for clays and sands were conducted in different laboratories, physically separated by significant distance, and treated at different processing rates. As a result, there was no combined tailings stream from which a representative sample could be collected. Considerable care was taken to make sure each of the many tailings streams from the proposed full scale processing facility was represented in the sample in their respective ratios.
The combined tailing sample was created primarily for pressure filtration testing to gather design information for equipment selection and to produce tailings filter cake to be used in testwork to determine they type of design that could be accomplished.
Bilfinger Water Technologies Inc., (Italy), Bilfinger was selected to do thickening and filtration testwork on the composite sample. Bilfinger conducted many analyses on the composite and found using a membrane-type plate and frame filter press produced the driest cake, suitable for the anticipated DST disposal method.
Recovery of Clay Products
Combined clay products (halloysite together with kaolinite) in the ore account for 16-18% of the total feed. The clays are separated from the other constituents in the ore based on particle size and apparent density. Virtually 100% of the clay is recovered as standard purity halloysite, high purity halloysite or kaolinite (metakaolin).
The split of recovery between standard grade halloysite and high purity halloysite is dictated more by market conditions than any inherent differences in the products. The market for high purity halloysite will be satisfied first with the market for standard grade being satisfied on a secondary basis. If necessary, any remaining halloysite can be blended with kaolinite and calcined to create metakaolin.
Kaolinite recovery is 100% of this constituent in the ore with the only loss being in the calcining step. The conversion of kaolinite to metakaolin by calcining removes most of the water of hydration and results in approximately 10% loss of mass. As a result, the recovery of kaolinite is effectively 90% of the amount of kaolinite in the feed.
Sand Recovery
Feldspathic sand makes up approximately 75% of the material in the ore. Processing of the sand involves separation of the quartz from the potassium feldspar and purification of the resulting separate streams. In this process there is removal and rejection of iron bearing minerals (primarily muscovite and biotite micas) and losses of fines to the tailings stream. Testwork results show that the recovery of quartz and potassium feldspar from the ore feed is approximately 58.5% each which is equivalent to approximately 78% recovery from the sand component in the feed.
Overall Product Recovery
The sum of all products recovered from the feed ore is approximately 61%. The remaining 39% is lost to tailing as sand fines or impurities removed in the upgrading of the clay and sand products.
CIM Mineral Resource Estimate
We have prepared a CIM measured and indicated resource estimate on the Bovill Kaolin Project as set out in the table below. The resource estimate does not utilize a cut-off grade as all recovered material in the resource estimation contains sufficient sand, kaolinite or halloysite that can be mined for profit.
Measured Resources of 5.7 million tons containing 76.5% quartz/K-spar sand, 12.3% Kaolinite and 4.0% Halloysite.
Indicated Resources of 15.5 million tons containing 57.0% quartz/K-spar sand, 15.5% Kaolinite and 2.8% Halloysite.
667,000 tons of contained halloysite, 3,119,000 tons of contained kaolinite and 13,235,000 tons of contained quartz/K-spar.
Cautionary Note to U.S. Investors: This section and other sections of this document contain the terms “measured mineral resources,” “indicated mineral resources,” “inferred mineral resources,” “proven mineral reserves,” and “probable mineral reserves” as defined in accordance with Canadian National Instrument 43-101 - Standards of Disclosure for Mineral Projects (“NI 43-101”) and the Canadian Institute of Mining, Metallurgy and Petroleum (the “CIM”) - CIM Definition Standards on Mineral Resources and Mineral Reserves, adopted by the CIM Council, as amended (the “CIM Definition Standards”). These definitions differ from the definitions in the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) Industry Guide 7 (“SEC Industry Guide 7”) under the United States Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”). Under SEC Industry Guide 7 standards, a “final” or “bankable” feasibility study is required to report reserves, the three-year historical average price is used in any reserve or cash flow analysis to designate reserves, and the primary environmental analysis or report must be filed with the appropriate governmental authority. Please note the following regarding these terms:
“Mineral resource”,“Measured mineral resources” and “indicated mineral resources”. We advise U.S. investors that although these terms are recognized and required by Canadian regulations, these terms are not defined in SEC Industry Guide 7 and the SEC does not normally permit such terms to be used in reports and registration statements filed with the SEC. U.S. investors are cautioned not to assume that any part or all of the mineral deposits in these categories will ever be converted into reserves.
“Inferred mineral resources”. We advise U.S. investors that although this term is recognized by Canadian regulations, the SEC does not recognize it. “Inferred mineral resources” have a great amount of uncertainty as to their existence, and great uncertainty as to their economic and legal feasibility. It cannot be assumed that all or any part of an inferred mineral resource will ever be upgraded to a higher category. Under Canadian rules, estimates of inferred mineral resources may not form the basis of a feasibility study or pre-feasibility study, except in rare cases. The SEC normally only permits an issuer to report mineralization that does not constitute “reserves” as in-place tonnage and grade without reference to unit measures. U.S. investors are cautioned not to assume that any part or all of an inferred mineral resource exists or is economically or legally minable.
“Proven mineral reserves” and “probable mineral reserves”. The definitions of proven and probable mineral reserves used in NI 43-101 differ from the definitions for “proven reserves” and “probable reserves” as found in SEC Industry Guide 7. Accordingly, our disclosures of mineral reserves herein may not be comparable to information from U.S. companies subject to reporting and disclosure requirements of the SEC.
Accordingly, information contained in this annual report and any documents incorporated by reference herein contain descriptions of our mineral deposits that may not be comparable to similar information made public by U.S. companies subject to the reporting and disclosure requirements under the United States federal securities laws and the rules and regulations thereunder.
Cautionary Note To All Investors Concerning Economic Assessments That Include Mineral Resources: Mineral resources that are not mineral reserves have no demonstrated economic viability.
Current Activities
Bovill Kaolin Project
The following activities are recommended to be undertaken:
A clay pilot plant to confirm the increased clay yield (30% vs 22% in feasibility study) through the use of hydrocyclone technologies for the initial sand / clay separation (vs screw classifier technology in the feasibility study)
Kaolin product development optimize grind and calcine temperature to make the most reactive product
Complete transportation and market studies for current understanding of markets, competition and transportation costs
Pump tests to confirm water availabilities and other water related work
Continued marketing and engineering efforts
Item 3.