Item 2.
Properties
The following map is an overview of our operating areas and the geologic basins where we operated in Texas at March 1, 2011.
The following table is a summary of data for our operating areas for the year ended December 31, 2010.
Permian Basin - Project Pangea and Pangea West
Clearfork, Wolfcamp, Canyon Sands, Strawn and Ellenburger
Our properties in the Permian Basin are located in Crockett and Schleicher Counties, Texas. We began operations in the Permian Basin through a farm-in agreement for 27,000 net acres in 2004, and have since increased our total acreage position to approximately 153,000 gross (133,000 net) acres as of March 1, 2011. At December 31, 2010, we owned interests in approximately 548 gross (482.2 net) wells, all of which we operate. As of December 31, 2010, we had working and net revenue interests of approximately 100% and 79%, respectively, in our southeast Permian operations, or Ozona Northeast, and 62% and 47%, respectively, in our northwest Permian operations, or Cinco Terry. At December 31, 2010, our average working and net revenue interests across our Permian operations were approximately 88% and 68%, respectively.
Since we began drilling our Permian Basin properties in 2004, we have primarily produced our reserves from the Canyon Sands, Strawn and Ellenburger formations at depths ranging from 7,250 feet to 8,900 feet. The Canyon Sands were deposited in submarine fan and are tight sandstone reservoirs characterized by low permeability. We use a specialized foamed fracture stimulation treatment to increase permeability, which enhances production rates and well recovery. The Strawn formation is a fractured carbonate reservoir between the Canyon Sands and Ellenburger zones. The Ellenburger formation is a fractured carbonate and dolomite reservoir that does not require a specialized fracture stimulation treatment.
As of December 31, 2010, we had estimated proved reserves of 48.3 MMBoe in the Permian Basin, composed of 53% oil and NGLs and 47% natural gas. Our Permian proved reserves increased 42%, and oil and NGL proved reserves increased 204%, over year-end 2009. Planned processing contributed to the increase in proved reserves at year end 2010. On April 1, 2011, we will begin realizing NGL revenues from the gas stream in Ozona Northeast. Development drilling and planned processing upgrades in Cinco Terry, acquisition of an additional working interest in Cinco Terry and improved pricing also contributed to the increase in proved reserves at December 31, 2010.
During 2010 in the Permian Basin, we incurred $59.8 million to drill 91 gross (56.2 net) wells, of which five gross (3.5 net) wells were waiting on completion at December 31, 2010. At December 31, 2010, we estimate that we had approximately 2,300 drilling locations in inventory, including 311 proved locations in the Permian Basin targeting the Wolffork, Canyon Sands and deeper zones. We also estimate that we had an additional 480 recompletion opportunities in the Permian Basin, targeting the Wolffork zones, none of which were proved.
Wolffork Oil Shale Resource Play
As mentioned above, since we began drilling our Permian Basin properties in 2004, we have primarily produced our reserves from the Canyon Sands, Strawn and Ellenburger formations at depths ranging from 7,250 feet to 8,900 feet. While we targeted these deeper zones, we collected log data, including mud logs that indicate the presence of hydrocarbons in the Clearfork and Wolfcamp Shale formations, or “Wolffork,” above the Canyon Sands, Strawn and Ellenburger zones.
We performed a detailed geological and petrophysical evaluation of the Wolffork formations using logs, 3-D seismic, whole core data and regional mapping. The Wolffork is composed of three stacked pay zones, the Clearfork, Dean and Wolfcamp Shale formations with combined gross pay thickness of approximately 2,500 feet. We believe Wolfcamp Shale is a source rock with significant potential for hydrocarbons, located in the oil-to-wet gas window across our Permian acreage position, and is naturally fractured due to its proximity to the Ouachita-Marathon thrust belt and mineralogy, specifically the carbonate and quartz minerals. The Wolfcamp Shale has gross pay thickness of approximately 1,000 feet across our acreage position. The Clearfork formation across our acreage position is a siltstone, shale and carbonate reservoir approximately 1,400 feet thick. Similarly, the Dean formation, which is approximately 150 feet thick, is a siltstone, shale and carbonate reservoir. The Wolffork formations were deposited across Project Pangea by debris flow and turbidite processes.
We recompleted three wells in the Wolfcamp Shale and drilled one well and commingled production from the Canyon Sands and Wolfcamp Shale, in a four-well, initial pilot program. In addition, in March 2011, we announced results from a second pilot phase with three vertical Canyon/Wolffork wells and two vertical recompletions in the Wolfcamp Shale. We plan to continue our pilot program in 2011 with a combination of vertical, horizontal and recompletion projects.
In February 2011, we acquired an additional 38% working interest in Cinco Terry from two non-operating partners for $76 million, subject to usual and customary post-closing adjustments. The Working Interest Acquisition was funded with cash on hand and borrowings under our revolving credit facility. As a result of the Working Interest Acquisition, our working and net revenue interests in Cinco Terry are 100% and 76%, respectively, and our approximate average working and net revenue interests across our Permian Basin operations are 100% and 78%, respectively.
Our estimated proved reserves at December 31, 2010, do not include estimated proved reserves attributable to our Wolffork oil shale resource play or the Working Interest Acquisition.
East Texas Basin - North Bald Prairie
Cotton Valley Sands and Cotton Valley Lime
In July 2007, we entered into a joint drilling venture with EnCana Oil & Gas (USA) Inc. (“EnCana”) in Limestone and Robertson Counties, Texas, in the East Texas Cotton Valley trend. We began drilling operations in August 2007. As of December 31, 2010, we had drilled and completed 11 gross wells, including one well completed as a saltwater disposal well. We have a 50% working interest and approximately 40% net revenue interest in the approximately 7,100 gross (4,400 net) acre project. As of December 31, 2010, we had estimated proved reserves of 14.6 Bcf in North Bald Prairie. Average daily production in 2010 was 0.6 MMcf/d, or a total of 218 MMcf.
Our primary targets in North Bald Prairie are the Cotton Valley Sands and Cotton Valley Lime, and we have identified 23 proved drilling locations as of December 31, 2010. These are all unconventional tight gas formations where we believe we can apply our geological, technical and operational expertise to improve production and recovery rates. Secondary targets include the shallower Rodessa, Pettit and Travis Peak formations.
We currently have no rigs running in North Bald Prairie. As previously reported, in December 2008, EnCana notified us that it was exercising its right to become the operator of record for joint interest wells in North Bald Prairie under the carry and earning agreement between the parties. We have continued to remain the operator of record pending payment by EnCana of joint interest billings owed to us under the joint operating agreement (the “JOA”). In July 2009, our operating subsidiary filed a lawsuit against EnCana for failure to pay joint interest billings under the JOA. This proceeding is described in more detail in Part I, Item 3, “Legal Proceedings,” and Note 9 to our consolidated financial statements in this report. The JOA allows either party to propose wells in the drilling project. In addition, we have re-leased or renewed approximately 2,700 net acres in the project at working interests of 100% as such acreage has expired or come up for renewal, and EnCana has elected not to participate in such leases. We will continue to monitor natural gas prices and offset acreage development to determine when to resume drilling in North Bald Prairie.
Northern New Mexico - El Vado East
Mancos Shale
Our El Vado East prospect is an approximately 90,300 gross (79,800 net) acre Mancos Shale play located in the Chama Basin in Northern New Mexico in proximity to several productive fields, including the Puerto Chiquito West, Puerto Chiquito East and Boulder fields. Our primary objective in El Vado East is the Mancos Shale at 2,000 to 3,000 feet. The Mancos Shale is an organic-rich, Upper Cretaceous marine shale. We have a 90% working interest and a net revenue interest of approximately 72% in our El Vado East prospect. At December 31, 2010, we had no proved reserves recorded for El Vado East.
Since Rio Arriba County imposed a moratorium on permits for new oil and gas development on private lands in the County in April 2008, regulatory proceedings and an inability to timely obtain permits have delayed our drilling plans in El Vado East. In May 2009, the County lifted the drilling moratorium and enacted an oil and gas ordinance regulating oil and gas operations on private lands in the County. In addition to obtaining permits to drill from the State of New Mexico, we are now required to obtain special use permits from the County for drilling locations in El Vado East. The “force majeure” provisions of our mineral lease for El Vado East provide that if our drilling operations are delayed or prevented as a result of a governmental or regulatory order or by failure to obtain permits, then our commitments under the lease, including our initial drilling commitment of eight wells, will be extended for the period of force majeure, as long as the primary term of the lease is not extended by more than four years, or April 2013. We have invoked our right to assert force majeure under the lease. See Item 1. “Business - Regulation - New Mexico” for additional information on our New Mexico lease and the delays in drilling in New Mexico.
Southwest Kentucky - Boomerang
New Albany Shale
Our Boomerang prospect is an approximately 67,700 gross (40,400 net) acre New Albany Shale play located in Southwest Kentucky in the Illinois Basin. We have a 60% working interest and a net revenue interest of approximately 50%. Our primary objective in the Boomerang project is the New Albany Shale, at approximately 1,500 feet to 2,000 feet. The New Albany Shale is an organic-rich geologic formation of Devonian and Mississippian age.
We review our long-lived assets to be held and used, including proved and unproved oil and gas properties, accounted for under the successful efforts method of accounting. Based on the review of the recoverability of the carrying value of our unproved properties in Boomerang, we determined that we may not be able to recover costs associated with this project, and therefore have recorded an impairment expense of $2.6 million, related to all of our remaining carrying costs in this project. At December 31, 2010, we had no estimated proved reserves recorded for Boomerang. Acreage amounts in this report exclude Boomerang.
Proved Oil and Gas Reserves
The following table sets forth summary information regarding our estimated proved reserves as of December 31, 2010. See Note 11 to our consolidated financial statements in this report for additional information. Our estimated total proved reserves of oil, NGLs and natural gas as of December 31, 2010, were 50.7 MMBoe, composed of 51% oil, condensate and NGLs and 49% natural gas. The proved developed portion of total proved reserves at year end 2010 was 51%. We determined the barrel of oil equivalent using the ratio of six Mcf of natural gas to one barrel of oil equivalent, and one barrel of NGLs to one barrel of oil equivalent.
Summary of Oil and Gas Reserves as of Fiscal-Year End
Based on Average Fiscal-Year Prices
The following table sets forth our estimated proved reserves, PV-10 and a reconciliation of PV-10 to the Standardized Measure at December 31, 2010. Our reserve estimates and our calculation of Standardized Measure and PV-10 are based on the 12-month average of the first-day-of-the-month pricing of $4.38 per MMBtu Henry Hub spot natural gas price, $79.40 per Bbl West Texas Intermediate posted oil price and
$39.25 per Bbl received for NGLs during 2010. All prices were adjusted for energy content, quality and basis differentials by area and were held constant through the lives of the properties.
PV-10 is our estimate of the present value of future net revenues from proved oil and gas reserves after deducting estimated production and ad valorem taxes, future capital costs and operating expenses, but before deducting any estimates of future income taxes. PV-10 is a non-GAAP, financial measure and generally differs from the Standardized Measure, the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure, because it does not include the effects of income taxes on future cash flows. PV-10 should not be considered as an alternative to the Standardized Measure as computed under GAAP.
We believe PV-10 to be an important measure for evaluating the relative significance of our oil and gas properties and that the presentation of the non-GAAP financial measure of PV-10 provides useful information to investors because it is widely used by professional analysts and sophisticated investors in evaluating oil and gas companies. Because there are many unique factors that can impact an individual company when estimating the amount of future income taxes to be paid, we believe the use of a pre-tax measure is valuable for evaluating our company. We believe that most other companies in the oil and gas industry calculate PV-10 on the same basis.
Changes to Proved Reserves
The following table sets forth the changes in our proved reserve volumes by operating area during the year ended December 31, 2010 (in MBoe).
Production. During 2010, we produced 1,556 MBoe (4.3 MBoe/d). Production volumes of 1,556 MBoe include two months of production from our acquisition of an additional 10% working interest in Cinco Terry from a non-operating partner in October 2010.
Extensions and discoveries. Extensions and discoveries primarily resulted from our development drilling in Cinco Terry and Ozona Northeast.
Purchases of Minerals in Place. Purchases of minerals in place are primarily due to the acquisition of a 10% working interest in Cinco Terry from a non-operating partner.
Revisions to Previous Estimates. Revisions to previous estimates are primarily attributable to 9.2 MMBoe of positive revisions due to planned processing upgrades on April 1, 2011. At that time, we will begin realizing NGL revenues from the gas stream in Ozona Northeast. Revisions to previous estimates also include 1.1 MMBoe of positive revisions resulting from an increase in the prices for oil, gas and NGLs,
partially offset by 0.2 MMBoe of negative revisions resulting from performance evaluations of Permian Basin and East Texas Basin wells.
Preparation of Proved Reserves Estimates
Internal Controls Over Preparation of Proved Reserves Estimates
Our policies regarding internal controls over the recording of reserve estimates require reserve estimates to be in compliance with SEC rules, regulations and guidance and prepared in accordance with “Standards Pertaining to the Estimating and Auditing of Oil and Gas Reserves Information (Revision as of February 19, 2007)” promulgated by the Society of Petroleum Engineers (“SPE standards”). Our proved reserves are estimated at the property level and compiled for reporting purposes by our corporate reservoir engineering staff, all of whom are independent of our operations team. We maintain our internal evaluations of our reserves in a secure reserve engineering database. The corporate reservoir engineering staff interacts with our internal staff of operations engineers and geoscience professionals and with accounting employees to obtain the necessary data for the reserves estimation process. Our internal professional staff works closely with our external engineers to ensure the integrity, accuracy and timeliness of data that is furnished to them for their reserve estimation process. All of the reserve information maintained in our secure reserve engineering database is provided to the external engineers. In addition, other pertinent data is provided such as seismic information, geologic maps, well logs, production tests, material balance calculations, well performance data, operating procedures and relevant economic criteria. We make available all information requested, including our pertinent personnel, to the external engineers as part of their evaluation of our reserves.
Our Manger of Reservoir Engineering, John J. Marting, P.E., is the individual responsible for overseeing the preparation of our reserve estimates and for internal compliance of our reserve estimates with SEC rules, regulations and SPE standards. Mr. Marting has a Bachelor of Science degree in Petroleum Engineering (Cum Laude) from the University of Missouri-Rolla and over 30 years of industry experience. Mr. Marting reports directly to our Chief Executive Officer. Our senior management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, reviews our reserves estimates before these estimates are finalized and disclosed in a public filing or presentation. Our Chief Executive Officer, J. Ross Craft, P.E., is a licensed Professional Engineer with a Bachelor of Science Degree in Petroleum Engineering from Texas A&M University and over 30 years of industry experience. Our Chief Financial Officer, Steven P. Smart, is a licensed Certified Public Accountant with over 30 years of industry experience.
For the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009, and 2008, we engaged DeGolyer and MacNaughton, independent petroleum engineers, to prepare independent estimates of the extent and value of the proved reserves associated with certain of our oil and gas properties. See Third Party Reports below for further information regarding DeGolyer and MacNaughton’s report.
Technologies Used in Preparation of Proved Reserves Estimates
Estimates of reserves were prepared in compliance with SEC rules, regulations and guidance and SPE standards. The method or combination of methods used in the analysis of each reservoir was tempered by experience with similar reservoirs, stage of development, quality and completeness of basic data and production history.
When applicable, the volumetric method was used to estimate the original oil in place (“OOIP”) and the original gas in place (“OGIP”). Structure and isopach maps were constructed to estimate reservoir volume. Electrical logs, radioactivity logs, core analyses and other available data were used to prepare these maps as well as to estimate representative values for porosity and water saturation. When adequate data were available and when circumstances justified, material balance and other engineering methods were used to estimate OOIP or OGIP.
Estimates of ultimate recovery were obtained after applying recovery factors to OOIP or OGIP. These recovery factors were based on consideration of the type of energy inherent in the reservoirs, analyses of the petroleum, the structural positions of the properties and the production histories. When applicable, material
balance and other engineering methods were used to estimate recovery factors. An analysis of reservoir performance, including production rate, reservoir pressure and gas-oil ratio behavior, was used in the estimation of reserves.
Because our proved reserves are located in depletion-type reservoirs and reservoirs whose performance demonstrates a reliable decline in producing-rate trends, reserves were also estimated by the application of appropriate decline curves or other performance relationships. In the analyses of production-declining curves, reserves were estimated only to the limits of economic production or to the limit of the production licenses or leases as appropriate.
Reporting of Natural Gas Liquids (“NGLs”)
We produce NGLs as part of the processing of our natural gas. The extraction of NGLs in the processing of natural gas reduces the volume of natural gas available for sale. At December 31, 2010, NGLs represented approximately 41% of our total proved reserves on a barrel of oil equivalent, or Boe basis. NGLs are products sold by the gallon. In reporting proved reserves and production of NGLs, we include these volumes and production as barrels of oil equivalent. The prices we received for a standard barrel of NGLs in 2010 averaged approximately 46% lower than the average prices for equivalent volumes of oil. We report all production information related to natural gas net of the effect of any reduction in natural gas volumes resulting from the processing of NGLs.
Third Party Reports
For the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, we engaged DeGolyer and MacNaughton, independent, third-party reserves engineers, to prepare estimates of the extent and value of the proved reserves of certain of our oil and gas properties. The estimates for 2010, 2009 and 2008 included a detailed review of 100% of our total reported proved reserves. DeGolyer and MacNaughton’s report for 2010 is included as Exhibit 99.1 to this annual report on Form 10-K.
Proved Undeveloped Reserves
As of December 31, 2010, we had 24.9 MMBoe of proved undeveloped reserves (“PUDs”), which is an increase of 4 MMBoe or 19.2%, compared with 20.9 MMBoe of PUDs at December 31, 2009. Approximately 91% of our PUDs at December 31, 2010, were associated with our core development properties in the Permian Basin. The remaining 9% of our PUDs at year-end 2010 were associated with North Bald Prairie in East Texas. As a percent of our total proved reserves, our PUDs decreased from 57% in 2009 to 49% in 2010.
The following table sets forth our PUDs converted to proved developed reserves during 2010 and 2009 and the net investment required to convert PUDs to proved developed reserves during the year (dollars in thousands).
Estimated future development costs relating to the development of PUDs are projected to be approximately $31.2 million in 2011, $36.8 million in 2012 and $82 million in 2013. We monitor fluctuations in commodity prices, drilling and completion costs, operating expenses and drilling success to determine adjustments to our drilling and development program. Based on current expectations for cash flows, commodity prices and operating costs and expenses, all PUDs are scheduled to be drilled before the end of 2015.
We have 3 MMBoe of PUDs, or approximately 6% of our total proved reserves, that have been booked for five years or longer. These reserves are located in Ozona Northeast, where we drilled 15 gross (15 net) wells in 2010 and plan to drill 19 gross (19 net) vertical wells targeting the Wolffork and Canyon Sands in 2011. Despite the continued development drilling in Ozona Northeast in 2010 and 2011, the volume of PUDs
in Ozona Northeast that will have been booked for five years or longer at December 31, 2011, may increase from December 31, 2010, and, depending on the timing and selection of locations to be drilled in Ozona Northeast in 2011, such increase might be material. We have a history of significant development activity in Ozona Northeast, as we have drilled over 345 gross (over 335 net) wells there since our first well in February 2004, and we intend to continue the development of PUDs in Ozona Northeast over time.
Oil and Gas Production, Production Prices and Production Costs
The following table sets forth summary information regarding natural gas, oil and NGL production, average sales prices and average production costs for the last three years. We determined the barrel of oil equivalent using the ratio of six Mcf of natural gas to one barrel of oil equivalent, and one barrel of NGLs to one barrel of oil equivalent.
(1)
Production cost per Boe is composed of lease operating expenses excluding ad valorem taxes. Production cost per Boe also excludes severance and production taxes.
Drilling Activity - Prior Three Years
The following table sets forth information on our drilling activity for the last three years. The information should not be considered indicative of future performance, nor should it be assumed that there is necessarily any correlation between the number of productive wells drilled, quantities of reserves found or economic value.
Of the 91 gross (56.2 net) productive wells drilled in 2010, five (3.5 net) wells were waiting on completion at December 31, 2010, and have since been completed as producers.
Although a well may be classified as productive upon completion, future changes in oil and gas prices, operating costs and production may result in the well becoming uneconomical.
Drilling Activity - Current
As of the date of this report, we had three rigs running in the Permian Basin targeting the Wolffork and Canyon Sands formations, including one rig drilling horizontal Wolfcamp wells.
Delivery Commitments
We are not committed to provide a fixed and determinable quantity of oil, gas or NGLs in the near future under existing agreements.
Producing Wells
The following table sets forth the number of producing wells in which we owned a working interest at December 31, 2010. Wells are classified as natural gas or oil according to their predominant production stream.
Acreage
The following table summarizes our developed and undeveloped acreage as of December 31, 2010.
Undeveloped Acreage Expirations
The following table sets forth the number of gross and net undeveloped acres as of December 31, 2010, that will expire over the next three years by project area unless production is established prior to lease expiration dates.
Undeveloped acreage in our El Vado East prospect is subject to an eight-well drilling commitment during the primary term of the mineral lease, which expired in April 2009. As of the filing of this annual report on Form 10-K, we had extended the primary term of the lease by force majeure, up to April 2013. If we meet the drilling commitment (as extended by force majeure), we will have two options to extend the primary term by
one year each for $15 per net acre, for a total extension of two years at $30 per net acre. If we are not able to meet the drilling commitment during the extended primary term, and we are otherwise not able to negotiate appropriate extensions under the lease, the lease will expire. See Item 1. “Business - Regulation - New Mexico” for additional information on our New Mexico lease and the delays in drilling in New Mexico.
Item 3.