ITEM 2. PROPERTIES.
Office Space
Effective June 1, 2017, the Company has a lease agreement for office space at 401 Bay Street, Suite 2702, Toronto, Ontario, Canada, M5H 2Y4. The 5-year lease provides for a monthly base rent of CDN$12,964 for the first two years, increasing to CDN$13,504 per month for years three through five. The Company has signed sub-leases with other companies that cover 100% of the monthly lease amount.
The Bunker Hill Mine
The Mine is one of the most well-known base metal and silver mines in American history. Initial discovery and development of the Mine property began in 1885, and from that time until the Mine closed in 1981 it produced over 35.8 million tons of ore at an average mined grade of 8.76% lead, 4.52 ounces per ton silver, and 3.67% zinc, which represented 162Moz of silver, 3.16M lbs. of lead and 1.35M lbs. of zinc (Bunker Limited Partnership, 1985). Throughout the 95-year operating history of the mine, there were over 40 different orebodies discovered and mined, consisting of lead-silver-zinc mineralization. Although known for its significant lead and zinc production, 45-50% of the Net Smelter Value of its historical production came from its silver. The Company and Sullivan Mining Company had a strong history of regular dividend payments to shareholders from the time the Company went public in 1905 until it was acquired in a hostile takeover by Gulf Resources in 1968.
When the Mine first closed in 1981, it was estimated to still contain significant resources (Bunker Limited Partnership, 1985). The Mine and Smelter Complex were closed in 1981 when Gulf Resources was not able to continue to comply with new regulatory structures brought on by the passage of environmental statutes and as then enforced by the EPA. The Bunker Hill Lead Smelter, Electrolytic Zinc Plant and historic milling facilities were demolished about 25 years ago, and the area became part of the “National Priority List” for cleanup under EPA regulations, thereby pausing development of the Mine for over 30 years.
The cleanup of the old smelter, zinc plant, and associated sites has now been completed and the Mine is now poised for development and an eventual return to production. The Company has been in contact with government officials and other local stakeholders who have expressed strong support and cooperation for the Company in its efforts to return the mine to a productive, modern and sustainable mining asset.
Geology and Mineralization
Geology
The Coeur d’Alene Mining District is one of the most prolific mining districts in North America. It has been in constant production since its discovery in the 1880s, historically is the second largest silver-producing area in the world, and is one of the largest zinc and lead producers, as well. Over 100 mines historically have reached commercial production in the District, which currently hosts two major mines, the Lucky Friday/Gold Hunter owned by Hecla Mining Company, and the Galena Mine, owned by America’s Silver. A number of other mines including the Sunshine, the Crescent, and the Coeur Mine have the potential to be re-started should silver prices rise sufficiently to justify reactivation.
The geology of the Silver Valley district occurs within the Precambrian meta-sedimentary rocks of the Belt-Purcell Supergroup, a Middle Proterozoic sedimentary basin occurring primarily in western Montana, Idaho and Southeastern British Columbia. In the Coeur d’Alene region these comprise a 21,000’ thick sequence of clastic, (argillites, siltites, and quartzites) and carbonate sedimentary rocks.
These rocks have been metamorphosed and strongly deformed by compressional tectonics during the Sevier Orogenic event of the cretaceous age. Following this, later in the cretaceous age, the Bitterroot Lobe of the Idaho Batholith was emplaced to the south of the Coeur d’Alene district which was accompanied by dike emplacement.
The mining district lies within the west-central part of a regional tectonic lineament known as the Lewis and Clark line, a major fault system, consisting of numerous faults that display strike slip, normal and reverse movements over a protracted geological history.
The Bunker Hill deposit occurs within the Revett and St Regis formations of the Ravalli Group, with the quartzites and siltites of the Middle Revett formation dominating. Most significant, and the common host to the larger Bunker Hill ore bodies is the M2 Unit of the Middle Revett formation, which is the thickest and most continuous quartzite package in the formation.
The Mine area lies on the north limb of an anticline fold in these rocks, which establishes a west-northwest to northeast trend for bedding planes. With the axis of this anticline inclined southwesterly, the formations on the north limb dip steeply upright to the northwest or are overturned steeply to the south or southwest.
The structural features that dominate the broad framework in which the Mine is located are the Osburn Fault to the North, which has a right-lateral offset of several miles bringing the older Prichard formation rocks opposite the mine formations, the Alhambra Fault to the east, and the large Anticline to the west and south.
The structure of the Bunker Hill deposits is associated with this anticline and are hosted by the fold-generated fractures and brecciation in the quartzite beds created in the hinge and near-hinge limbs of the broad flexure.
Fold-associated elements include sphalerite-pyrite-siderite filled reverse shears, replacement mineralization of stratiform-like fabric composed of both sphalerite and galena, and principally sphalerite replacement as fine “crackle breccia” and irregular dense soaking. The development of these various fabrics appears to be dependent on location relative to the hinge, lithology of the host unit, and the stratigraphic horizon in the Revett formation
Mineralization
Mineralization is hosted by parallel mesothermal veins related to metamorphic/hydrothermal events that sourced metals from the Belt sediments. This consists of wide veins with variable proportions of sphalerite, galena and tetrahedrite in either a quartz or siderite gangue.
The individual deposits that form the Mine are numerous and relatively large with strike lengths up to 900 ft (274 m) with plunge lengths up to 3,000 ft (914 m) with many open at depth. Wall rock alteration associated with veining consists of changes in carbonate mineralogy plus sulfidation and silicification. Pyritization of wall rocks is locally strong. Bleached halos resulting from destruction of hematite by hydrothermal fluids are also characteristic. The mineralization is partly oxidized to a depth of approximately 1,800 ft (549 m). There are three distinct types of mineralization at the Mine:
● The NW trending Bluebird mineral zones are zinc rich and consist of sphalerite in excess of galena with variable amount of pyrite in a gangue of greyish quartz and minor siderite. This mineralized material is commonly localized in smaller parasitic folds, broken by reverse shears (Meyer, 1982).
● The Jersey type mineral bodies consist principally of veins containing galena with lesser amounts of sphalerite, chalcopyrite and tetrahedrite (Meyer, 1981). These NE to N trending veins are referred to as “link” veins as they extend between the NW trending Cate and Dull faults, or other faults in the mine. Gangue minerals are primarily white quartz with lesser siderite.
● “Hybrid” mineral bodies comprise the third type and are associated with zones of brecciation located at the junctions of major faults. These are multi-stage systems where “Bluebird” type fracture zones were reopened and brecciated prior to flooding by galena from the newly opened “link” veins. The galena penetrated and partially replaced the previous minerals and filled remaining open spaces (Meyer, 1981).
Many of the deposits, and especially those of the Bluebird system, may have originally comprised a parallel set of only four or five persistent fracture sets. However, extremely complex post-mineralization shearing has segmented and displaced the deposits.
Mine and Mill Operations
Starting with the original Bunker Hill and Sullivan claims, the Mine eventually encompassed 620 patented mining claims totaling 6,200 acres. From the discovery cuts some 3600 feet above sea level, over 20 major ore zones were mined to nearly 1600 feet below sea level, a vertical distance of about one mile.
Four major mining methods were historically employed in the Mine. The oldest is square set or cut and fill. These methods employ support of the stope where the vein is mined with sets of timbers and/or rock bolts, and then sand-fill is pumped from the surface as the mining activity moves to a higher elevation. The broken ore was scraped into chutes by compressed air powered slushers and dropped into ore pockets on the level below.
The second method called shrink stoping is similar to the above, but no ground support is required. Instead, the broken ore is used as both ground support and a mining floor and the full mining cut is completed prior to withdrawing the ore from the stope. Air powered slushers or compressed air operated mucking machines on rubber tires were historically used.
A third mining method is known as room and pillar mining. In this operation, no timber is required but pillars of ore are left in place as supports until the stoping moves to a higher elevation, at which time sand fill is pumped in to provide the floor for the next cut. As the ore is broken, rubber tired, compressed air operated mucking machines picked it up putting it into a box on the back of the loader. It was then transported to a chute in the stope where it dropped into the ore pocket on a lower level.
The fourth method is sublevel blasthole stoping. Diesel powered equipment cuts horizontal slices every forty feet in the ore zones. Then long holes are drilled in the pillars between horizontal slices. The holes are blasted allowing the ore to fall to the bottom slice and scooped up by diesel powered loaders and transported to ore passes. This method was used above the Kellogg Tunnel, and ore was transported by gravity to the tunnel and hauled out by train to the surface.
From the ore pockets on the various levels of the mine below the Kellogg Tunnel, ore trains powered by battery driven locomotives transported the ore to ore pockets located at the shaft. In the shaft, large steel buckets, called skips, were loaded and hoisted to the Kellogg Tunnel level where the ore was dumped into two large concrete bins. Drawn from these storage areas by gravity, the ore was next transported two miles to the surface in 22-car ore trains pulled by trolley and diesel locomotives.
Blasthole stoping, cut and fill, and shrinkage stoping methods are likely to be employed in the re-start of the Mine. The main improvement and productivity gain over historic operations will be the widespread use of rubber-tired equipment, which will be used for mucking and transport of the broken mineralized material. The upper part of the Mine is largely already developed with ramps, which will be used by the Company for rubber-tired access. Most of these ramps were completed by the Bunker Hill Company and ramp expansion also occurred during the BLP mine reopening.
Company engineers have already inspected many portions of the ramp system in the upper part of the Mine and the ramps are generally in very good shape and will only require minor repair and clean-up.
Historically, the Mine ore was milled in the milling facility located approximately 2,000 yards from the main Kellogg Tunnel portal and the concentrate was treated at the nearby smelting and refining complex, which was located approximately one mile to the west of the mill. The milling facility and smelting complex have all been razed and remediation of these sites has been largely completed.
An existing water treatment plant, the CTP, which was originally built by the Bunker Hill Company remains in operation and is operated by the EPA through a local contractor. This plant has received numerous upgrades and capacity improvements in the last twenty-five years. All mine water which is discharged from the Mine has been treated by the EPA during the ownership of the mine by Placer Mining.
Index of Geologic and Mining Terms
TERM
DEFINITION
Argillite
A fine-grained sedimentary rock composed predominantly of indurated muds and oozes.
Breccia
A rock composed of broken fragments of minerals or rock cemented together by a fine-grained matrix, which can be either similar to or different from the composition of the fragments.
Chalcopyrite
A major ore mineral containing copper, iron, and sulfur.
Cretaceous
A geologic period from 145 to 65 million years ago.
Dikes
A type of sheet intrusion referring to any geologic body that cuts discordantly across rock structures.
Galena
The natural mineral form of lead sulfide.
Hydrothermal
Relating to or produced by hot water, especially water heated underground by the Earth’s internal heat.
Mineral
A mineral is a naturally occurring solid chemical substance having characteristic chemical composition, highly ordered atomic structure, and specific
Mineralization
The act or process of mineralizing.
Ore
Mineralized material that can be mined and processed at a positive cash flow.
Oxidized
A process whereby the sulfur in a mineral has been removed and replaced by oxygen.
Pyrite
A very common sulfide mineral consisting of iron and sulfur found in a wide variety of geological occurrences. Commonly known as “Fools Gold”
Quartzite
A hard metamorphic rock which was originally sandstone
Silicification
A hydrothermal or metamorphic process involving the introduction of, alteration to, or replacement by silica.
Sphalerite
A mineral containing zinc and sulfur.
Sulfides
Sulfide minerals are a class of minerals containing sulfur with sulfide (S2−) as the major anion.
Tetrahedrite
A sulfosalt mineral containing copper, antimony, and sulfur.
Completed Work and Future Development Plans
Mineral Resources and Exploration
Concurrent with the digitization work, and since March 2020, the Company has been working systematically to bring a number of mineralized zones into accordance with NI 43-101 through drilling and channel sampling of the open stopes. This work focused upon the mineralization that is closest to the existing infrastructure and above the current water-level.
In doing so, the Company’s first objective was to validate in accordance with NI 43-101 standards up to 9 million tons of primarily zinc ore contained within the UTZ, Quill and Newgard Ore Bodies. This was conducted between April and July 2020, and involved over 9,000 feet of drilling from Underground and extensive sampling from the many open stopes above the water-level. These zones could provide the majority of the early feed if the Company were to achieve a re-start of the Mine.
On September 28, 2020, the Company announced its maiden mineral resources estimate consisting of a total of 8.9 million tons in the Inferred category, containing 11 million ounces of silver, 880 million pounds of zinc, and 410 million pounds of lead, which represented the result of the Company’s extensive drilling and sampling efforts conducted between April and July 2020.
Following the program as described above, through February 2021 the Company conducted approximately 10,000 feet of additional drilling, primarily focused on expanding and upgrading its maiden mineral resources estimate in support of its intention to target a rapid re-start of the Mine, as announced on November 12, 2020.
On March 19, 2021, the Company announced an updated mineral resources estimate consisting of a total of 4.4 million tons in the Indicated category, containing 3.0 million ounces of silver, 487 million pounds of zinc, and 176 million pounds of lead; and a total of 5.6 million tons in the Inferred category, containing 8.3 million ounces of silver, 548 million pounds of zinc, and 312 million pounds of lead.
Further details regarding the Company’s mineral resources as noted above, including estimation methodologies, can be found in the news releases dated September 28, 2020, and March 19, 2021 on EDGAR, SEDAR and the Company’s website www.bunkerhillmining.com.
It should be noted that mineral resources as stated above, including those delineated in the Inferred, Measured and Indicated categories, are not mineral reserves as defined by SEC guidelines, and do now show demonstrated economic viability. Due to the uncertainty that may be attached to Inferred mineral resources, it cannot be assumed that all or any part of an Inferred mineral resource will be upgraded to an Indicated or Measured mineral resource as a result of continued exploration.
The Company currently anticipates that its 2021 drilling program will comprise approximately 32,000 feet to 39,000 feet of drilling in total. Exploration activities will focus on high-grade lead-silver mineralization targets, in the upper levels of the mine and identified by the data review and digitization process.
Consistent with that strategy, on March 19, 2021, the Company announced the identification of a new silver exploration opportunity in the hanging wall of the Cate Fault which it intends to include in its ongoing drilling campaign.
On March 29, 2021, the Company announced multiple high-grade silver mineralization results through chip-channel sampling of newly accessible areas of the Mine identified through the Company’s proprietary 3D digitization program, and as part of its ongoing silver-focused drilling program. An area was identified on the 9-level that resulted in ten separate chip samples greater than 900 g/t AgEq(1), each with minimum 0.6m length. Mineralization remains open up dip, down dip and along strike from the sampling location. The Company also reported drill results including a 3.8m intercept with a grade of 996.6 g/t AgEq(1), intersected at the down-dip extension of the UTZ zone at the 5-level. The Company will continue to report mineralized drill intercepts concurrent with its ongoing exploration program that is currently envisaged to comprise 10,000 to 12,000 feet in 2021.
(1)Prices used to calculate Ag Eq are as follows: Zn=$1.16/lb; Pb=$0.92/lb; and Ag=$20/oz.
Water Management Optimization
The EPA currently provides mine water treatment services for the Mine to ensure compliance with existing discharge standards. This is done via its management of the EPA’s CTP, located adjacent and downstream to the Mine. Although it also treats other contaminated water collected from other sources in the vicinity, with respect to its service to the Mine, this facility treats all the water that exits the Kellogg Tunnel before it is discharged into the South Fork of the Coeur D’Alene River.
In September 2020, the Company began its water management program with the goal of improving the understanding of the Mine’s water system and enacting immediate improvement in the water quality of effluent leaving the mine for treatment at the CTP. Informed by historical research provided by the EPA, the Company initiated a study of the water system of the mine to: i) identify of the areas where AMD is generated in the greatest and most concentrated quantities, and ii) understand the general flow paths of AMD on its way through and out of the mine as it travels to the CTP.
Leveraging its improved understanding through this study, on February 11, 2021, the Company announced the successful commissioning of a water pre-treatment plant located within the Mine, designed to significantly improve the quality of Mine water discharge water which in turn would support a rapid re-start of the Mine. Specifically, the water pre-treatment plant achieves this goal by reducing significantly the amount of treatment required at the CTP, and the associated costs, before the Mine water is discharged into the south fork of the Coeur D’Alene River, removing over 70% of the metals from water before it leaves the Mine, with the potential for further improvements.
In an effort to improve transparency to all stakeholders with regard to the results of this system, the Company launched a water quality tracking platform on its website on March 15, 2021, which uploads real-time data every five minutes and provides an interactive database to allow detailed historical analysis.
Infrastructure Review
The Mine main level is termed the nine level and is the largest level in the Mine. It is connected to the surface by the approximately 12,000 foot-long Kellogg Tunnel. Three major inclined shafts with associated hoists and hoistrooms are located on the nine level. These are the No. 1 shaft, which is used for primary muck hoisting in the main part of the Mine; the No. 2 shaft, which is a primary shaft for men and materials in the main part of the Mine; and the No. 3 Shaft, which is used for personnel, materials and muck hoisting for development in the northwest part of the Mine.
The top stations of these shafts and the associated hoistrooms and equipment have all been examined by Company personnel and are in moderately good condition. The Company believes that all three shafts remain in a condition that they are repairable and can be bought back into good working order over the next few years.
The water level in the Mine is held at approximately the ten level of the Mine, roughly 200 feet below the nine level. The Mine was historically developed to the 27 level, although the 25 level was the last major level that underwent significant development and past mining. Each level is approximately 200 feet vertically apart.
The southeastern part of the Mine was historically serviced by the Cherry Raise, which consisted of a two-compartment shaft with double drum hoisting capability that ran at an incline up from the nine level to the four level. The central part of the Mine was serviced upward by the Last Chance Shaft from the nine level to the historic three or four level. Neither the Cherry Raise or the Last Chance shaft are serviceable at this time. However, the upper part of the Mine from eight level up to the four level has been developed by past operators by a thorough-going rubber tire ramp system, which is judged to be about 65% complete.
The Company has repaired the first several thousand feet of the Russell Tunnel, which is a large rubber-tire capable tunnel with an entry point at the head of Milo Gulch. This tunnel will provide early access to the UTZ Zone, and Quill and Newgard Zones, following ramp and access development. The Company has made development plans to provide interconnectivity of the ramp system from the Russell Tunnel at the four level down to the eight level, with further plans to extend the ramp down to the nine level. Thus rubber-tired equipment will be used for mining and haulage throughout the upper Mine mineral zones, which have already been identified, and for newly found zones.
The Kellogg Tunnel will be used as a tracked rail haulage tunnel for supply of personnel and materials into the Mine and for haulage of mined material out of the Mine. Historically, the Kellogg Tunnel was used in this manner when the Mine was producing upwards of 3,000 tons per day of mined material. The Company has inspected the Kellogg Tunnel for its entire length and has determined that significant timbered sections of the tunnel will need extensive repairs. These are areas that intersect various faults passing through the Kellogg Tunnel at normal to oblique angles and create unstable ground.
The Company has determined that all of the track, as well as spikes, plates and ties holding the track will need to be replaced, and has started that process in support of the on-going exploration program. Additionally, the water ditch that runs parallel to the track will need to be thoroughly cleaned out and new timber supports and boards that keep the water contained in its path will need to be installed. All new water lines, compressed air lines and electric power feeds will also need to be installed. The total cost estimate for this Kellogg Tunnel work is still in process as of the date hereof, but the time estimate for these repairs is approximately twelve months.
Development of Re-start Options
On November 12, 2020, the Company announced the launch of a PEA to assess the potential for a rapid re-start of the Mine for minimal capital by focusing on the de-watered upper areas of the Mine, utilizing existing infrastructure, and based on truck haulage and toll milling methods.
On January 26, 2021, the Company reported continued progress towards completing the previously announced PEA. While engineering work, trade-off studies and economic analysis remain to be completed, the PEA is expected to contemplate a re-start with the following parameters:
Low up-front capital costs through utilization of existing infrastructure, potentially enabling rapid production re-start
MineTech is conducting a comprehensive review of existing infrastructure in the context of preliminary engineering designs and costing for re-start capital, including areas of rehabilitation, electrical infrastructure, utility reticulation, ventilation, and material haulage. In addition, a review of the existing hoisting and shaft infrastructure is underway to engineer and evaluate options to access lower areas of the Mine. Preliminary results indicate the potential for low up-front capital costs underpinned by: i) minimal development and rehabilitation work required to access initial stopes; ii) utilization of existing underground and surface infrastructure; iii) no de-watering requirement to commence re-start; iv) no requirement for above-ground tailings storage capacity; and v) no requirement for purchase of mobile equipment given the use of contract mining. Lastly, opportunity exists to offset initial capital costs during the re-start period with revenue from toll mining.
Given the presence of extensive existing infrastructure, the fully permitted status of the Mine, and the above approach to the re-start, a potential re-start timeframe of less than two years is currently being contemplated.
Staged approach to mining, potentially supporting a long-life operation
Mine planning is advancing within the framework of three distinct stages to exploit the majority of the resource. Stage 1 will contemplate mining to the 11 level to exploit shallow resources located above the current water table. In Stage 2, higher-grade zinc resources extending to the 16 level could be accessed either through the existing shaft system, or alternatively through the construction of a new decline. Incremental investment in capital required for Stage 2 is contemplated to be financed from cash flow generated in Stage 1. A final Stage 3 will contemplate mining to the 23 level, facilitated through either shaft or ramp access.
Underground processing and tailings deposition with potential for high recovery rates
Consistent with the Company’s objective of developing a sustainable operation with a low environmental footprint, the PEA will contemplate construction of an underground processing facility with a design capacity of approximately 1,500 tons per day. The majority of tailings generated from ore processing will be utilized for geotechnical paste back-fill, with the remaining material to be thickened and deposited in historic mine voids. As a result, the PEA will contemplate minimal surface disturbance and no requirement for above-ground tailings capacity. Resource Development Inc. has been engaged to design and conduct a metallurgical testing program, with assay results being incorporated into the geological and metallurgical models as received. Historical production has shown high recoverability of silver and base metals with approximately 87% silver recovery, 92% lead recovery and 93% zinc recovery. The ongoing metallurgical test program is designed to update and confirm these recoveries, and is expected to confirm extensive historical metallurgical data.
Development of a sustainable operation with minimal environmental footprint
The preservation and enhancement of the water quality of the Coeur d’Alene lake is integral to the PEA and is fundamental to management’s vision and strategy. As such, the Company’s underground pre-treatment facility is near completion, and has demonstrated the potential for removal of more than seventy percent of metal from effluent before it leaves the Mine. Implementation of a successful long-term water management strategy will be contemplated in the PEA, consistent with the Company’s ongoing achievements. In addition, as outlined, utilization of underground processing and tailings deposition further contributes to minimizing the operation’s environmental footprint and surface disturbance activities.
The Company currently plans to proceed with a PFS later in 2021 to further assess a rapid re-start of the Mine. If the PFS demonstrates the potential for a rapid production re-start, the Company intends to approach capital markets participants to obtain sufficient financing to do so.
ITEM 3.