ITEM 2. PROPERTIES.
Office Space
In order to reduce overhead costs, the Company did not renew its leases for office space in Toronto, Ontario or its field office and warehouse space in Sparks, Nevada, when they became due during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2016. The following leases were discontinued during the year:
The Company had a lease agreement for office space at 181 Bay Street, Suite 2330, Toronto, Ontario, Canada, M5J 2T3. The monthly base rent was approximately $3,243 (CA $4,007). The term of the lease was for fifty-four months and was terminated early at the end of January 2016.
The Company had a lease agreement for a field office at 808 Packer Way, Sparks, NV 89431. The monthly base rent was $2,552 plus Common Area Reimbursement of $370 and Property Tax of $250. The term of the lease was for twelve months and terminated on January 31, 2016.
Trinity Project
Trinity Project Location
The Trinity Project is situated approximately 25 road miles north-northwest of Lovelock, Nevada, in Pershing County, Nevada, on the northwest flank of the Trinity Range, in the Trinity mining district. The latitude-longitude coordinates of the mine site are 40o 23’ 47” N, 118o 36’ 38” W. The JV area is situated in sections 2, 3, 4, 5, 8, 9, 10, 11, 15, 16, and 17, Township 29 North, Range 30 East, MDB&M and sections 26-28, 33, 34, and 35, Township 30 North, Range 30 East, MDB&M.
The Trinity Project includes located public and leased/subleased fee land consisting of the following 253 unpatented mining claims and tracts of fee land:
(1)248 unpatented lode mining claims consisting of: The Seka 1-6, 8-16, 61-64, 73-76, 95-112 claims, the TS 1-18 claims, and the XXX claims located in secs. 4, 10, 16 and 21 in T29N, R30E. The Elm 1-183 in secs. 2, 4, 10, 16 T29N, R30E and secs. 26 28, 34, and 35 in T30N, R30E. The claims are located on public land open to mineral entry, currently valid, and subject to Bureau of land management regulations. The total area covered is approximately 5,120 acres.
(2)Hi Ho Silver 3, 5, 9, 10, and 11 unpatented lode mining claims located in sec. 10, T29N, R30E MDB&M covering approx. 100 acres.
(3)Approximately 4,480 acres of fee land leased by Newmont Mining Corp. from Southern Pacific Land Co., and its successors, and from Santa Fe Pacific Minerals Corporation, and its successors located in sections 3, 5, 11, and 17, Township 29 North, Range 30 East, and sections 27, 33, and 35, Township 30 North, Range 30 East MDB&M.
(4)Approximately 1,280 acres of fee land owned by Newmont Mining Corp. located in sections 9 and 15, Township 29 North, Range 30 East, MDB&M.
The Company’s joint venture area of interest is currently sections 2-5, 8-11, 15-17, and 21 Township 29 North, Range 30 East, MDB&M, and sections, 26-28, 33-35, Township 30 North, Range 30 East, MDB&M. The Company’s rights, which apply to all of the above properties include exploration, development, and production of valuable minerals except geothermal, hydrocarbons, and sand/gravel, and also include the authority to apply for all necessary permits, licenses and other approvals from the United States of America, the State of Nevada or any other governmental or other entity having regulatory authority over any part of the Trinity Project.
Location and Access
The following maps identify the location and access of the Trinity Project located in Pershing County Nevada:
Trinity Project Agreements
The Company acquired its interest in the Trinity Project through an Exploration Earn-In Agreement executed on March 29, 2010 with AuEx, Inc., a Nevada corporation. AuEx, Inc. held an exclusive interest in the Trinity Project by way of a Minerals Lease and Sublease with Newmont Mining USA Limited. Effective as of July 1, 2010, AuEx, Inc., assigned all its rights in the Exploration Earn-In Agreement to another Nevada company, Renaissance Exploration, Inc.
The terms of the Minerals Lease and Sublease Agreement and the Exploration Earn-In Agreement are discussed below.
Minerals Lease and Sublease Agreement
Renaissance’s rights in the Trinity Project are derived through a Minerals Lease and Sublease dated July 29, 2005 (the “Lease”) by and between Newmont Mining USA Limited, a Delaware corporation (“Newmont”) and AuEx, Inc., a Nevada corporation.
Consideration
The Lease was granted to Renaissance for the following consideration:
a)Renaissance agreed to pay Newmont a claim fee reimbursement of $10,955 concurrently with the execution of the Lease (this amount was paid);
b)Renaissance is required to expend a total of $2,000,000 in ascertaining the existence, location, quantity, quality or commercial value of a deposit of minerals within the Trinity Project on or before the seventh anniversary of the Lease;
c)Prior to the commencement of any commercial production, Renaissance shall supply Newmont with a feasibility study with respect to the Trinity Project.
In the event the Company did not meet its minimum expenditure obligation in any year, it would have been obligated under the terms of the Earn-In Agreement to pay the amount of any deficiency to Renaissance Exploration, Inc. However, the Company exceeded its minimum expenditure obligation in each of the first three years, and by the end of the third year it had incurred a total of approximately $5,652,397 in expenses. As a result, the Company will not be obligated to pay any deficiency amounts to Renaissance for any future years.
Joint Venture / Royalty
The Lease gives Newmont a right to either enter into a joint venture with Renaissance covering the Trinity Project and any other real property interests that Renaissance holds or acquires within the Trinity Project, or receive a royalty on all mineral production from such properties.
Joint Venture: The Lease contemplates the following schedule with respect to Newmont’s rights to enter into a joint venture with Renaissance:
a)Before Renaissance spends $5 million and provides a feasibility study, Newmont can elect at any time to enter into a joint venture in which event Newmont would be required to pay all future joint venture expenses up to 250% of the expenditures made by Renaissance as of the date of Newmont’s election to enter into the joint venture.
b)Upon Renaissance spending $5 million, but before the feasibility study, Renaissance shall deliver written notice to Newmont containing a summary of the expenditures made by Renaissance on the Trinity Project. Newmont may thereafter elect to enter into a joint venture by notifying Renaissance in writing of such election within 60 days of Newmont’s receipt of Renaissance’s initial notice. Under the joint venture, Newmont would be required to pay all future joint venture expenses up to 250% of the expenditures made by Renaissance as of the date of Newmont’s election to enter into the joint venture.
c)After Renaissance spending $5 million, but before the feasibility study, at any time after the expiration of the 60 day period identified in section b above, Newmont can elect to enter into a joint venture in which event Newmont would be required to pay Renaissance 50% of the expenditures made in the Trinity Project up to the date of Newmont’s election to participate in a joint venture, and all future joint venture expenses up to 200% of such expenditures.
d)At any time within 60 days after Renaissance’s delivery of feasibility study, Newmont can elect to enter into a joint venture at which time Newmont would be required to pay Renaissance 200% of expenditures made by Renaissance as of the date of Newmont’s election to enter into the joint venture. Additionally, Renaissance can elect to have Newmont finance Renaissance’s share of the joint venture expenses until the Trinity Project is put into commercial production. Following the commencement of commercial production, Newmont shall be entitled to recover such paid expenses with interest at the London Interbank Offering Rate. If Newmont fails to elect to participate in the Joint Venture within 60 days following the delivery of the feasibility study, Newmont’s right to participate in a joint venture shall terminate.
Should Newmont elect to participate in a joint venture with Renaissance, pursuant to the Lease, and its payment terms, Newmont will serve as the manager of the joint venture and own 51% of the joint venture with an option to acquire an additional 14% for additional payments to Renaissance (for a total participating interest of 65%). Pursuant to the Earn-In Agreement, the Company is entitled to 70% interest in the Trinity Project, subject only to the Newmont interest. Accordingly, if Newmont exercised all of its joint venture options under the Lease, the Company would own a 35% interest in the Trinity Project.
Royalty: In the event Newmont does not elect to participate in a joint venture, then Newmont shall have the right to receive a royalty on all mineral production from the Trinity Project. Pursuant to the Lease, if Newmont elects to not participate in the joint venture, then Renaissance shall pay to Newmont $1 million and the Lease shall terminate and Newmont shall transfer title to all property comprising the Trinity Project to Renaissance, and thereafter receive a royalty payment of up to 5% of the net smelter returns generated from the properties comprising the Trinity Project.
Buyout Option
The Lease provides Renaissance with a buyout option pursuant to which Renaissance holds the right to purchase Newmont’s rights in the Trinity Project through the payment of $1 million to Newmont. In the event Renaissance elects the buyout option, Newmont would transfer title to the Trinity Project to Renaissance through quit claim deed while retaining certain rights in the Trinity Project; such rights may include some form of joint venture or a royalty interest.
Ownership Interest - Earn-In Agreement
As noted above, the rights to the Trinity Project are held 100% by Renaissance, pursuant to an assignment of such rights from AuEx, Inc. The Company entered into the Earn-In Agreement providing the Company with a right to earn a 70% undivided interest in rights of Renaissance in the Trinity Project (the “70% Interest”), as set out below. The following is intended to be a summary of the material terms of the Earn-In Agreement, and is subject to, and qualified in its entirety, by the full text of the Earn-In Agreement.
Consideration
The exclusive right to acquire the 70% Interest in the Trinity Project was granted to the Company for the following consideration:
a)The Company agreed to pay $25,000 upon execution of the Earn-In Agreement (this amount was paid);
b)In order to obtain the 70% Interest in the Trinity Project, the Company is required to (i) produce a bankable feasibility study by March 29, 2017 and (ii) to expend a minimum of $5,000,000 in exploration on the Trinity Project as follows: $500,000 in the first year; $1,000,000 in the second year; $1,000,000 in the third year; $1,000,000 in the fourth year; $1,000,000 in the fifth year; and $500,000 in the sixth year.
Any excess expenditure in any year shall be carried forward and applied to the subsequent year’s expenditure requirement, and the Company may accelerate the expenditures at its discretion. If the Company elects not to meet the minimum expenditure obligation during any year but wishes to maintain the Earn-In Agreement in full force and effect, or if it is subsequently determined that the minimum amount was not expended in any given year, the Company shall pay the amount of any deficiency to Renaissance.
Work Program
The Company shall be the operator and shall have full control over the content of work programs and annual expenditure amounts during the earn-in period, including having the authority to apply for all necessary permits, licenses and other approvals from the U.S., the State of Nevada or any other governmental or other entity having regulatory authority over any part of the Trinity Project.
Joint Venture
Upon the Company having acquired the 70% Interest in the Trinity Project by satisfying the minimum expenditure amounts and producing a bankable feasibility study, the Company and Renaissance shall enter into a formal joint venture agreement, and the Company will be the operator of the joint venture.
At such time as the Company earns the 70% Interest in the Trinity Project, the parties will thereafter participate in expenditures on the Trinity Project in accordance with their respective interests therein, or have their interest diluted in accordance with a straight-line dilution formula, as set forth in the joint venture agreement.
If through dilution the interest of a party is reduced to less than 10%, then that party’s participating interest shall automatically be converted to a 3% net smelter returns royalty interest. Should third party claims be acquired with royalties within the area of interest, the 3% royalty described above would be reduced by the amount of such royalty but not below 1%. This reduction does not apply to the royalty described under the heading “Royalty upon Termination of Interest” below.
Royalty upon Termination of Interest
If the Company elects to terminate its right to earn an interest in the Trinity Project prior to completing a bankable feasibility study by March 29, 2017, but has expended at least $3,000,000, the Company shall be entitled to a 4% net smelter returns royalty capped at twice its expenditure on the Trinity Project.
Termination
The Company may in its sole discretion terminate the Earn-In Agreement at any time by giving not less than 30 days prior written notice to that effect to Renaissance. Upon expiry of the 30-day notice period, the Earn-In Agreement will be of no further force and effect. Upon such termination, the Company shall have no further obligation to incur expenses on or for the benefit of the Trinity Project and shall have no further obligations or liabilities to Renaissance under the Earn-In Agreement or with respect to the Trinity Project (including without limitation liability for lost profits or consequential damages as a result of an election by the Company to terminate the agreement), other than (a) as set forth below, and (b) to reclaim (in accordance with applicable law) any disturbances of the Trinity Project made by the Company.
At any time the Company may, at its option, terminate its interest in some but less than all of the claims comprising the Trinity Project by written notice to Renaissance, provided that if such notice (or notice of termination of the Earn-In Agreement in its entirety) is received by Renaissance after June 30th of any year, the Company shall remain obligated to pay the claim maintenance fees (and make all filings and recordings required in connection therewith) for those claims to which such termination applies for the upcoming assessment year. To the extent the Company terminates its interest in some but less than all of the claims, the Earn-In Agreement shall remain in full force and effect with respect to the remaining claims.
In the event the Company is in default in the observance or performance of any of the Company’s covenants, agreements or obligations under the Earn-In Agreement, Renaissance may give written notice of such alleged default specifying the details of same. The Company shall have 30 days following receipt of said notice within which to remedy any such default described therein, or to diligently commence action in good faith to remedy such default. If the Company does not cure or diligently commence to cure such default by the end of the applicable 30-day period, then Renaissance shall have the right to terminate the Earn-In Agreement by providing 30 days advance written notice to the Company.
Confidentiality
All data and information coming into possession of Renaissance or the Company by virtue of the Earn-In Agreement with respect to the business or operations of the other party, or the Trinity Project generally, shall be kept confidential and shall not be disclosed to any person not a party thereto without the prior written consent of the other party, except: (a) as required by law, rule, regulation or policy of any stock exchange or securities commission having jurisdiction over a party; (b) as may be required by a party in the prosecution or defense of a lawsuit or other legal or administrative proceedings; (c) as required by a financial institution in connection with a request for financing relating to development or mining activities; or (d) as may be required in connection with a proposed conveyance to a third party of an interest in the Trinity Project or the Earn-In Agreement, provided such third party agrees in writing in a manner enforceable by the other party to abide by all of the applicable confidentiality provisions of the Earn-In Agreement with respect to such data and information.
To the extent either party intends to disclose data or information via press release or other similar format as may be required, the disclosing party shall provide the other party with not less than five business days notice of the text of the proposed disclosure, and the other party shall have the right to comment on the same.
Deed With Reservation of Royalty Hi Ho Silver Claims.
On October 15, 2012, the Company entered into and closed a Purchase Agreement (the “Purchase Agreement”) with Primus Resources, L.C. and James A. Freeman (collectively “Seller”) to acquire unpatented mining claims, Nevada BLM Serial No. 799907, 799908, 799909, 799910, and 799911 covering approximately 100 acres of property located adjacent to the former Trinity Silver mine on the Company’s Trinity Project (the “Hi Ho Properties”). The Hi Ho Properties were previously the only acreage not controlled by the Company or its joint venture partner Renaissance Exploration Inc. in the Trinity Project. Under the terms of the Purchase Agreement, the Company provided cash consideration of US$250,000 and issued 172,222 restricted shares of common stock of the Company to Seller. In addition the Seller was granted a 2% net smelter royalty on future production from the Hi Ho Properties pursuant to the terms of a Deed With Reservation of Royalty Hi Ho Silver Claims.
In conjunction with the entry into the Purchase Agreement, the Company entered into a Registration Rights Agreement (the “Registration Rights Agreement”) with Seller, pursuant to which the Company agreed to file a registration statement on Form S-1 with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission, within thirty (30) days of the closing, which registers the common stock issued to the Seller pursuant to the Purchase Agreement. Pursuant to the Registration Rights Agreement the Company paid the Seller total consideration consisting of 190,741 of its common shares.
Geology and Mineralization of Trinity Project
The following disclosure regarding the Geology and Mineralization of the Trinity Project has been derived from information contained in the Trinity Project Technical Report.
The Trinity Project lies on the western flank of the Trinity Range, one of the generally north-trending ranges formed during Tertiary extension of the Basin and Range Province.
Within the Trinity Range, the basement rocks are comprised of the Middle Triassic to Early Jurassic near-shore deltaic deposits of the Auld Lang Syne Group, which are represented by phyllite, argillite, quartzite, and dirty limestone at the Trinity Project. The best-represented pre-Cenozoic deformation in this portion of the Trinity Range is the Jurassic and Cretaceous Nevadan Orogeny, which resulted in low-grade regional metamorphism, variably directed folding, and thrust faulting. A Cretaceous intrusive episode culminated the Nevadan Orogeny and is exemplified by a Cretaceous granodiorite stock just northeast of the Trinity project.
Tertiary volcanic and sedimentary rocks and Quaternary sediments are abundant in the Trinity project area. There is a thin Tertiary rhyolite sequence along the central north-south axis of the property that includes the mineralized material area. These volcanic rocks overlie the Mesozoic phyllite and argillite, exposed to the east, but are separated by an argillite breccia that is closely associated with faulting. The rhyolite includes interbedded rhyolitic flows, welded tuffs, air-fall tuffs, epiclastic tuffs, and lacustrine deposits. Several rhyolite domes, dikes, and sills have also been identified on the property, some of which may be related to mineralization. Early Tertiary north- to northwest-trending faults are present in the Trinity project area, as are younger north- to northeast-trending normal faults. Late Tertiary and/or Quaternary bench and channel gravel deposits and Quaternary alluvium and outwash unconformably overly the rhyolites and cover the western part of the property.
Rhyolite porphyry, aphanitic rhyolite, and volcaniclastic rocks are the principal host rocks for mineralization in the Trinity mine area. Silicification and quartz-adularia-sericite alteration are associated with the mineralization. Tertiary rhyolitic tuffs and flows were extensively altered and form a halo extending 1.6 miles beyond the main mineralized area. This alteration affected the Auld Lang Syne Group only locally along faults and breccia zones.
Mineralization at the Trinity Project is controlled by a northeast-trending zone of normal faults. Silver, lead, and zinc mineralization occurs in fractures and bedding planes in Tertiary rhyolite in the hanging-wall block of the fault zone. Although mineralization continues downward into the underlying Triassic rocks, it is more tightly constrained to fractures that host higher-grade vein mineralization. The original Trinity silver deposit can generally be divided into two parts: a sulfide zone below the current pit and to the northeast, and an overlying oxide zone. Borax’s mining in the late 1980s focused on a portion of the oxide zone.
Mineralization occurs as oxidized and unoxidized sulfides in veinlets, as fracture-controlled mineralization, and as disseminations within the host rocks, including breccia matrix. Sulfide mineralization consists mainly of pyrite, sphalerite, galena, marcasite, and minor arsenopyrite with various silver minerals, including tetrahedrite-freibergite, pyrargyrite, minor argentite, and rare native silver, with traces of gold, pyrrhotite, stannite, and chalcopyrite. Low-grade lead and zinc have the potential to add value as byproducts.
Index of Geologic Terms
Mining history
The following disclosure regarding the mining history of the Trinity Project has been derived from information contained in the Trinity Project Technical Report.
The Trinity Project lies in the Trinity mining district, which had limited production of silver, lead, zinc, and gold from 1864 through 1942, primarily from the east side of the Trinity Range. In the vicinity of the Trinity project, which is located on the west side of the range, there was historic prospecting with unrecorded but presumed minor silver production.
Minor exploration activity took place in the vicinity of the Trinity project in the 1950s, and in the 1960s Phelps Dodge Corporation completed trenching, IP surveying, and limited drilling in the area.
U. S. Borax and Chemical Corp. (“Borax”) became interested in what is now the Trinity project in 1982 on the basis of reconnaissance geochemical sampling that indicated the presence of anomalous lead and silver in the Willow Canyon area. By 1984, Borax had acquired a property position and had entered into a joint venture with Southern Pacific Land Company (later Santa Fe Pacific Mining, Inc. (“SFPM”) and still later Newmont Mining Corp. (“Newmont”), in which Borax was the operator. From 1982 to 1986, Borax and its joint-venture partner explored the property and developed the Trinity mine. Borax operated the open pit heap-leaching mine, through a mining contractor, on behalf of the joint venture from September 3, 1987 to August 29, 1988, with leaching continuing into 1989. During this period, the mine produced about five and a half million ounces of silver from about 1.1 million tons of oxidized ore grading approximately six and a half ounces of silver per ton. Borax drilled and conducted extensive metallurgical testing on the sulfide mineralization, but metal prices at the time were too low to support mining of this material.
In 1984-1985, 1987-1989, and 1990, SFPM conducted exploration and drilling on their property in the vicinity of the joint-venture lands. In 1991, SFPM acquired sole interest in the joint-venture lands, including Borax’s claims, and conducted further exploration through 1992. SFPM’s 1990-1992 exploration work concentrated on down-dip and lateral extensions of mineralization underlying the oxide pit and the sulfide mineralization, as well as extensions of mineralization outside the immediate mine area.
There was no exploration on the Trinity property from 1993 to 2005. In August 2005, Renaissance leased the property from Newmont, who had acquired SFPM’s Nevada holdings. Under an earn-in agreement with Piedmont Mining Company, Renaissance explored the property from September 2005 through July 2009, including limited drilling in 2006 and 2007 that encountered high-grade silver values below and adjacent to the open pit.
Liberty Silver entered into an earn-in agreement with Renaissance in March, 2010. To date, Liberty Silver has conducted extensive data compilation and has completed geophysical surveys consisting of a magnetotelluric survey, a gravity survey, and an induced polarization survey over portions the project. The Company has also drilled approximately 20,000 ft of reverse circulation rotary drilling consisting of 20 holes, 18 of which were drilled in the vicinity of the Trinity mine. The database of technical data for the property, developed since 1982, includes the results of soil and rock surveys, geophysical surveys, geologic mapping, lithology logging and multi-element analyses for about 400 drill holes, and metallurgical work, as well as data derived from the previous production of heap-leach silver. The Magnetotelluric Survey was initiated in June of 2010 and completed in August of 2010. The Gravity survey was initiated in February of 2012 completed in March of 2012. The Induced Polarization Survey was initiated in April of 2012 completed in May of 2012. The drill program was started in January of 2012 and completed in April of 2012.
Work Completed by Company & Plan of Operation
As of the date of this Form 10-K, the Company has completed the following items: (a) a magnetotelluric geophysical survey has been completed; (b) the drill hole database has been digitized; (c) a mineralized material estimate for the original deposit identified in the Earn-In Agreement; in addition, environmental and permitting work has commenced, and all of the past geologic data has been compiled.
Past exploration activities consisted of a magnetotelluric survey that was completed in August of 2010, a gravity survey that was completed in March of 2012, an induced polarization survey that was completed in May of 2012 and a drill program that was started in January of 2012 and completed in April of 2012, consisting of 20 reverse circulation holes comprising 22,565 ft of drill hole. The Magnetotelluric Survey was initiated in June of 2010 and completed in August of 2010. The Gravity survey was initiated in February of 2012 completed in March of 2012. The Induced Polarization Survey was initiated in April of 2012 completed in May of 2012. The drill program was started in January of 2012 and completed in April of 2012.
It is estimated that: during the fiscal year ending June 30, 2011, the Company incurred approximately $554,145 in exploration expenses; during the fiscal year ending June 30, 2012, the Company incurred approximately $1,667,497 in exploration expenses; during the fiscal year ending June 30, 2013, the Company incurred approximately $3,234,201 in exploration expenses; during the fiscal year ending June 30, 2014, the Company incurred approximately $470,333 in exploration expenses; during the fiscal year ending June 30, 2015, the Company incurred approximately $398,975 in exploration expenses; and, that during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2016, the Company incurred approximately $128,690 in exploration expenses. These amounts include both direct exploration costs as well as various indirect costs related to exploration and the costs of acquiring mineral properties, which under the terms of the Earn-In Agreement, are included in the calculations for purposes of determining whether the Company has met its minimum annual expenditure commitment.
It is anticipated, subject to the availability of financing, that additional exploration work will be needed, although specific plans for this additional work have not yet been finalized. It is currently anticipated that if and when adequate financial resources are available, the additional exploration work to be completed will include additional drilling to upgrade the level of confidence in the mineralization and to expand the mineralized area, as well as drilling to collect metallurgical samples. The estimated budget for this additional drilling is approximately $1,500,000. Metallurgical testing, which is budgeted to cost approximately $300,000, is expected to be undertaken for the purpose of defining the estimated silver recovery of the mineralized rock. Engineering design work, budgeted at approximately $500,000, is expected to be undertaken for the purpose of studying the feasibility of developing a mine, and as soon as design work is completed, permitting will need to start. The budget for permitting work is expected to be approximately $100,000. No further geophysical work is currently planned. The plan of exploration work described above is subject to the availability of financing, which in the context of the current capital markets is very difficult for junior exploration companies, such as the Company.
Trinity Project Technical Report
In the process of compiling and synthesizing information on the Trinity Project, on February 15, 2011, the Company completed an independently verified mineralized materials estimate on the Trinity Project (the “Trinity Project Technical Report”); the report was publicly released by the Company on March 2, 2011. The Technical Report for the Trinity mine project was prepared in accordance with the Canadian Securities Administrators’ National Instrument 43-101 (“NI 43-101”) by Mine Development Associates of Reno, Nevada, and has been reviewed by the Toronto Stock Exchange. The Trinity Project Technical Report may be viewed on the Company’s website at www.libertysilvercorp.com, and also on www.SEDAR.com, where it has been filed. Mineralized materials defined in the Trinity Project Technical Report are not recognized by the United States Securities and Exchange Commission.
ITEM 3.