ITEM 2. PROPERTIES.
Office Space
Effective June 1, 2017, the Company has a lease agreement for office space at 401 Bay Street, Suite 2702, Toronto, Ontario, Canada, M5H 2Y4. The 5-year lease provides for a monthly base rent of CDN$12,964 for the first two years, increasing to CDN$13,504 per month for years three through five. The Company has signed sub-leases with other companies that cover 69% of the monthly lease amount.
The Bunker Hill Mine
The Bunker Hill Mine is one of the most storied base metal and silver mines in American history. Initial discovery and development of the Bunker Hill Mine property began in 1885, and from that time until the mine closed in 1981 it produced over 35.8 million tons of ore at an average mined grade of 8.76% lead, 4.52 ounces per ton silver, and 3.67% zinc (Bunker Limited Partnership,1985). Throughout the long history of the mine, there were over 40 different orebodies discovered and mined, primarily consisting of Zinc-Lead-Silver mineralization. The Bunker Hill and Sullivan Mining Company had a strong history of regular dividend payments to shareholders from the time the Company went public in 1905 until it was acquired in a hostile takeover by Gulf Resources in 1968.
When the mine first closed in 1981, it was estimated to still contain significant resources (Bunker Limited Partnership, 1985). The Mine and Smelter Complex were closed in 1981 when Gulf Resources was not able to continue to comply with new regulatory structures brought on by the passage of environmental statutes and as then enforced by the Environmental Protection Agency (the “EPA”). The Bunker Hill Lead Smelter, Electrolytic Zinc Plant and historic milling facilities were demolished about 25 years ago, and the area became part of the “National Priority List” for cleanup under EPA regulations, thereby pausing development of the Bunker Hill Mine for over 30 years.
The majority of the cleanup of the old smelter, zinc plant, and associated sites has now been completed and the Mine is now poised for further development and an eventual return to production. The Company has been in contact with government officials who have expressed strong support and cooperation for the Company efforts to return the mine to being a productive mining asset.
History
The Bunker Hill lode in Northern Idaho was discovered on September 9, 1885 by prospectors who had journeyed to Idaho as part of a gold rush in the nearby Murray District. Early development was completed by Jim Wardner, a local mine developer who constructed the first milling facility.
In 1887 Simeon G. Reed purchased the claims and mill and incorporated the Bunker Hill and Sullivan Mining and Concentrating Company.
As the tonnage of ore in the mine increased, it became apparent that a mill of larger capacity was needed, and in 1891 a new mill of 400-ton capacity was built in the main valley below the confluence of Milo Creek with the South Fork of the Coeur d’Alene River. To transport ore to this mill, an aerial tramway with a horizontal length of 10,000 feet was constructed from Milo Gulch. This tramway served to transport all mine ore until the two-mile long Kellogg Tunnel was completed in 1902.
Two men stand out in the early history of the company. They are Frederick W. Bradley and Stanly A. Easton. Bradley first became associated with the company as a young engineer in 1890. In 1893 he was named general manager of the operation, and in 1897 he became the company’s fourth president, a position he held until his death in 1933. He brought to Kellogg another young California engineer, Stanly Easton, who became general manager in 1903 and succeeded Bradley as President. Under the guidance of these two men the Bunker Hill Company grew from a small mining and concentrating venture to a large, integrated mining and smelting operation with a national presence.
On May 25, 1917, Bunker Hill and Sullivan joined with the Hecla Mining Company in forming the Sullivan Mining Company, which purchased and operated the Star mine near Mullan, Idaho, approximately 15 miles to the east. The ore from the Star mine had a relatively high zinc content and necessitated the construction of an electrolytic zinc plant which was the first plant constructed of this type. The technological process that was devised for the plant was recognized as a significant new development in the metallurgical field and made possible the widespread use of zinc in such applications as galvanizing.
From its early days and through two major world wars the Bunker Hill Company operated as an independent and well-known mining and smelting company and was listed on the New York Stock Exchange. On June l, 1968, in one of the earliest leveraged buyouts, Bunker Hill became a wholly owned subsidiary of Gulf Resources & Chemical Corp.
Growing public concern with the environment in the 1970s compelled Bunker Hill to spend large sums on plant improvements in order to comply with newly enacted federal air and water pollution laws. The Company also made major efforts to reclaim surrounding hillsides which had been denuded by the effects of decades of airborne smelter effluents and timbering for mining purposes.
Ultimately the costs of environmental compliance and the deep recession of 1981 with resulting declines in metal prices led to Gulf Resources’ decision in August 1981 to close its Bunker Hill operations and put the company up for sale. In 1982 the company was sold to the Bunker Limited Partnership (“BLP”) whose principal owners were Harry Magnuson, Duane Hagadone, Jack Kendrick and Simplot Development Company (the Simplot company dropped out of the partnership in 1987). Although the new company ultimately reopened the mine, the lead and zinc smelting and refining operations remained closed.
As noted, the mine was briefly reopened from 1988 to 1990 by BLP. This reopening resulted in a large effort being made to drill and define the zinc-rich Quill ore body and to expand and improve the ramp system for modern rubber-tired mining methods. Although exceptional progress was made in defining new mineralization and in meeting other goals, the operations were underfunded and targeted production goals were not met. Combined with low metal prices due to the recession of the early 1990s, BLP closed the mine in January, 1991 and shortly thereafter filed for bankruptcy. On May 1, 1992, the Bunker Hill Mine was sold to Placer Mining Co., a Nevada corporation. This sale was of the mine only, and Pintlar, Inc., a subsidiary of Gulf Resources & Chemical, remained responsible for the EPA Superfund cleanup of the smelter site.
The Company has signed a lease with option to purchase with Placer Mining on approximately the same land package and mine infrastructure that was transferred to Placer Mining approximately 25 years ago.
Geology and Mineralization
Geology
The Coeur d’Alene Mining District is one of the most prolific mining districts in North America. It has been in constant production since its discovery in the 1880s, historically is the second largest silver-producing area in the world, and is one of the largest zinc and lead producers as well. Over 100 mines historically have reached commercial production in the District and currently hosts two major mines, the Lucky Friday/Gold Hunter owned by Hecla Mining Company, and the Galena Mine, owned by America’s Silver. A number of other mines including the Sunshine, the Crescent, and the Coeur Mine have the potential to be re-started should silver prices rise sufficiently to justify reactivation.
The District is underlain by members of the Precambrian Belt Super Group. The metasedimentary rocks are predominantly fine-grained quartzite, siltites and argillites. The District is structurally complex with multiple folding and faulting events being evident. The WNW-trending Osburn fault runs through the district and has about 15 miles of right lateral displacement. Mineralized zones in the district are generally parallel to sub-parallel to the Osburn fault. Numerous mines, including the Bunker Hill, are located south of the Osburn fault and occupy the steeply dipping to overturned north limb of a WNW-trending fold.
Mineralization
The mineralization at Bunker Hill is hosted in localized, structurally controlled shear zones and strati-form zones of significant width. The mineral bodies are grouped into three different types.
The NW trending Bluebird mineral zones are zinc rich and consist of sphalerite in excess of galena with variable amount of pyrite in a gangue of greyish quartz and minor siderite. This mineralized material is commonly localized in smaller parasitic folds, broken by reverse shears (Meyer, 1982).
The Jersey type mineral bodies consist principally of veins containing galena with lesser amounts of sphalerite, chalcopyrite and tetrahedrite (Meyer, 1981). These NE to N trending veins are referred to as “link” veins as they extend between the NW trending Cate and Dull faults, or other faults in the mine. Gangue minerals are primarily white quartz with lesser siderite.
“Hybrid” mineral bodies comprise the third type and are associated with zones of brecciation located at the junctions of major faults. These are multi-stage systems where “Bluebird” type fracture zones were reopened and brecciated prior to flooding by galena from the newly opened ‘link’ veins. The galena penetrated and partially replaced the previous minerals and filled remaining open spaces (Meyer, 1981).
Mine and Mill Operations
Starting with the original Bunker Hill and Sullivan claims, the Bunker Hill Mine eventually encompassed 620 patented mining claims totaling 6,200 acres. From the discovery cuts some 3600 feet above sea level, over 20 major ore zones were mined to nearly 1600 feet below sea level, a vertical distance of about one mile.
Four major mining methods were historically employed in the Bunker Hill Mine. The oldest is square set or cut and fill. These methods employ support of the stope where the vein is mined with sets of timbers and/or rock bolts, and then sand-fill is pumped from the surface as the mining activity moves to a higher elevation. The broken ore was scraped into chutes by compressed air powered slushers and dropped into ore pockets on the level below.
The second method called shrink stoping is similar to the above, but no ground support is required. Instead the broken ore is used as both ground support and a mining floor and the full mining cut is completed prior to withdrawing the ore from the stope. Air powered slushers or compressed air operated mucking machines on rubber tires were historically used.
A third mining method is known as room and pillar mining. In this operation, no timber is required but pillars of ore are left in place as supports until the stoping moves to a higher elevation, at which time sand fill is pumped in to provide the floor for the next cut. As the ore is broken, rubber tired, compressed air operated mucking machines picked it up putting it into a box on the back of the loader. It was then transported to a chute in the stope where it dropped into the ore pocket on a lower level.
The fourth method is sublevel blasthole stoping. Diesel powered equipment cuts horizontal slices every forty feet in the ore zones. Then long holes are drilled in the pillars between horizontal slices. The holes are blasted allowing the ore to fall to the bottom slice and scooped up by diesel powered loaders and transported to ore passes. This method was used above the Kellogg Tunnel, and ore was transported by gravity to the tunnel and hauled out by train to the surface.
From the ore pockets on the various levels of the mine below the Kellogg Tunnel, ore trains powered by battery driven locomotives transported the ore to ore pockets located at the shaft. In the shaft, large steel buckets, called skips, were loaded and hoisted to the Kellogg Tunnel level where the ore was dumped into two large concrete bins. Drawn from these storage areas by gravity, the ore was next transported two miles to the surface in 22-car ore trains pulled by trolley and diesel locomotives.
Blasthole stoping, cut and fill, and shrinkage stoping methods are likely to be employed in the restart of the Bunker Hill Mine. The main improvement and productivity gain over historic operations will be the widespread use of rubber-tired equipment, which will be used for mucking and transport of the broken mineralized material. The upper part of the mine is largely already developed with ramps, which will be used by the Company for rubber-tired access. Most of these ramps were completed by the Bunker Hill Company and ramp expansion also occurred during the Bunker Limited Partnership mine reopening.
Company engineers have already inspected many portions of the ramp system in the upper part of the mine and the ramps are generally in very good shape and will only require minor repair and clean-up.
Historically the Bunker Hill ore was milled in the milling facility located approximately 2000 yards from the main Kellogg Tunnel portal and the concentrate was treated at the nearby smelting and refining complex which was located approximately one mile to the west of the mill. The milling facility and smelting complex have all been razed and remediation of these sites has been largely completed.
An existing water treatment plant which was originally built by the Bunker Hill Company remains in operation and is operated by the United States Environmental Protection Agency (the “E.P.A.”) through a local contractor. This plant has received numerous upgrades and capacity improvements in the last twenty-five years. All mine water which is discharged from the Bunker Hill Mine has been treated by the E.P.A. during the ownership of the mine by Placer Mining.
Index of Geologic and Mining Terms
TERM
DEFINITION
Adularia
A variety of transparent or translucent orthoclase.
Air-fall tuffs
Ash exploded out of a volcano, which falls through the air and settles in beds, called tuffs when consolidated.
Alluvium
Loose, unconsolidated (not cemented together into a solid rock) soil or sediments
Aphanitic
Igneous rock in which the grain or crystalline structure is too fine to be seen by the unaided eye
Argillite
A fine-grained sedimentary rock composed predominantly of indurated muds and oozes.
Argillization
The replacement or alteration of feldspars to form clay minerals.
Arsenopyrite
The most prevalent mineral containing the element arsenic.
Breccia
A rock composed of broken fragments of minerals or rock cemented together by a fine-grained matrix, which can be either similar to or different from the composition of the fragments.
Cenozoic
The current and most recent geological era and covers the period from 65.5 million years ago to the present
Chalcopyrite
A major ore mineral containing copper, iron, and sulfur.
Cretaceous
A geologic period from 145 to 65 million years ago.
Deltaic
Pertaining to, or like a delta.
Dikes
A type of sheet intrusion referring to any geologic body that cuts discordantly across rock structures.
Domes
A roughly circular mound-shaped protrusion resulting from the slow extrusion of viscous lava from a volcano.
Epiclastic
Formed at the surface of the earth by consolidation of fragments of preexisting rocks.
Freibergite
A complex sulfosalt mineral of silver, copper, iron, antimony, arsenic, and sulfur.
Galena
The natural mineral form of lead sulfide.
Grandiorite
A visibly crystalline plutonic rock composed chiefly of sodic plagioclase, alkali feldspar, quartz, and subordinate dark-colored minerals.
Hydrothermal
Relating to or produced by hot water, especially water heated underground by the Earth’s internal heat.
Jurassic
The geologic period that extends from about 200 to 145 million years ago.
Lacustrine
Of or relating to lakes.
Metal Sulfides
A group of minerals containing both metals and sulfur.
Mesozoic
A geologic era that extends from 251 to 65 million years ago
Mineral
A mineral is a naturally occurring solid chemical substance having characteristic chemical composition, highly ordered atomic structure, and specific
Mineralization
The act or process of mineralizing.
Miocene
A geological epoch that extends from about 23.8 to 5.3 million years ago.
Nevadan Orogeny
A major mountain building event that took place along the western edge of ancient North America between the mid to late Jurassic.
Ore
Mineralized material that can be mined and processed at a positive cash flow.
Orthoclase
A variety of feldspar, essentially potassium aluminum silicate, which forms igneous rock.
Oxidized
A process whereby the sulfur in a mineral has been removed and replaced by oxygen.
Phyllite,
A type of foliated metamorphic rock primarily composed of quartz, muscovite mica, and chlorite
Pliocene
The geologic epoch that extends from about 5.3 million to 1.8 million years ago.
Porphyry
A variety of igneous rock consisting of large-grained crystals suspended in a fine grained matrix
Pyrargyrite
A sulfosalt mineral consisting of silver, arsenic, and sulfur.
Pyrite
A very common sulfide mineral consisting of iron and sulfur found in a wide variety of geological occurrences. Commonly known as “Fools Gold”
Pyrrhotite
An unusual iron sulfide mineral with a variable iron content.
Quartzite
A hard metamorphic rock which was originally sandstone
Rhyolite
A fine-grained volcanic rock, similar to granite in composition
Sercitization
A hydrothermal or metamorphic process involving the introduction of, alteration to, or replacement by white, fine-grained potassium mica.
Silicification
A hydrothermal or metamorphic process involving the introduction of, alteration to, or replacement by silica.
Sills
A tabular sheet intrusion that has intruded between older layers of sedimentary rock, beds of volcanic lava or tuff.
Sphalerite
A mineral containing zinc and sulfur.
Stannite
A mineral containing copper, iron, tin, and sulfur.
Sulfides
Sulfide minerals are a class of minerals containing sulfur with sulfide (S2−) as the major anion.
Tetrahedrite
A sulfosalt mineral containing copper, antimony, and sulfur.
Triassic
A geologic period that extends from about 251 to 200 million years ago.
Volcanic
A rock formed from magma erupted from a volcano.
Volcaniclastic
Volcanic material which been transported and reworked through mechanical action, such as by wind or water.
Welded tuffs
Rock composed of compacted volcanic ejected materials.
Completed Work and Future Plan of Operations
The Company has undertaken a due diligence program to assure itself of the viability of a restart of the Bunker Hill Mine. This necessitated an extensive review of the records that were present primarily at the Bunker Hill Mine offices. At those offices there are tens of thousands of pages of reports and records which detail the operations of the mine from its earliest days to the time of the shutdown in 1991 by BLP.
In addition to reports, there are several thousand historical maps of all scales and sizes as well as historical mineral diagrams which detail the mineral bodies that remained in the mine at the time of closure in January, 1991. These reports are not compliant with Canada National Instrument 43-101 and cannot be used for the purposes of establishing reserves pursuant to that standard.
The Company has satisfied itself that there is a large amount of remaining zinc/lead/silver mineralization in numerous zones within the Bunker Hill Mine. The Company is now developing a plan to bring a number of these zones into N.I. 43-101 compliance through new sampling and drilling programs. The Company has identified several zones as having highest priority. The Company has prioritized zones capable of providing production in the near term, these being the UTZ Zone, the Newgard Zone and the Quill Zone. These three mineral zones will be the first to be N.I. 43-101 verified and will provide the majority of the early feed upon mine start-up.
The Bunker Hill Mine main level is termed the nine level and is the largest level in the mine and is connected to the surface by the approximately 12,000 foot-long Kellogg Tunnel. Three major inclined shafts with associated hoists and hoistrooms are located on the nine level. These are the No. 1 shaft, which is used for primary muck hoisting in the main part of the mine; the No. 2 shaft, which is a primary shaft for men and materials in the main part of the mine; and the No. 3 Shaft, which is used for men, materials and muck hoisting for development in the northwest part of the mine.
The top stations of these shafts and the associated hoistrooms and equipment have all been examined by Company personnel and are in moderately good condition. The Company believes that all three shafts remain in a condition that they are repairable and can be bought back into good working order over the next few years.
The water level in the mine is held at approximately the ten level of the mine, roughly 200 feet below the nine level. The mine was historically developed to the 27 level, although the 25 level was the last major level that underwent significant development and past mining. Each level is approximately 200 feet vertically apart.
The southeastern part of the mine was historically serviced by the Cherry Raise, which consisted of a two-compartment shaft with double drum hoisting capability that ran at an incline up from the nine level to the four level. The central part of the mine was serviced upward by the Last Chance Shaft from the nine level to the historic three or four level. Neither the Cherry Raise or the Last Chance shaft are serviceable at this time. However, the upper part of the mine from eight level up to the four level has been developed by past operators by a thorough-going rubber tire ramp system, which is judged to be about 65% complete.
The Company has already repaired the first several thousand feet of the Russell Tunnel, which is a large rubber tire capable tunnel with an entry point at the head of Milo Gulch. This tunnel will provide early access to the UTZ Zone. The Company has inspected a great deal of the ramp system between the eight level and the four level, and the ramps are in good shape with only minor repair and rehabilitation needed. The Company has made development plans to provide interconnectivity of the ramp system from the Russell Tunnel at the four level down to the eight level, with further plans to extend the ramp down to the nine level. Thus rubber-tired equipment will be used for mining and haulage throughout the upper mine mineral zones, which have already been identified, and for newly found zones.
The Kellogg Tunnel will be used as a tracked rail haulage tunnel for supply of men and materials into the mine and for haulage of mined material out of the mine. Historically the Kellogg Tunnel (or “KT” for short) was used in this manner when the mine was producing upwards of 3000 tons per day of mined material. The Company has inspected the KT for its entire length and has determined that significant timbered sections of the tunnel will need extensive repairs. These are areas that intersect various faults passing through the KT at normal to oblique angles and create unstable ground.
The Company has also determined that all of the track, as well as spikes, plates and ties holding the track will need to be replaced. Additionally, the water ditch that runs parallel to the track will need to be thoroughly cleaned out and new timber supports and boards that keep the water contained in its path will need to be installed. All new water lines, compressed air lines and electric power feeds will also need to be installed. The total cost estimate for this KT work is still in process at the time of the date of this report, but the time estimate for these repairs is approximately eighteen months.
It is anticipated that earliest production will come from the upper levels of the mine where company personnel have observed mining faces of mineralized material that are readily mineable, as they were left behind by past operators in a more or less fully developed state.
The Company anticipates constructing its own milling facility near the mouth of the Kellogg Tunnel. Initially the mill capacity will be 1500 tons per day, and the mill will be designed for ready expansion when needed.
The Company has identified multiple tailings disposal sites to the west-northwest of where the mill will be located.
As noted above, the EPA for several decades has provided mine water treatment services for the Bunker Hill Mine. When the Company begins its lease of the mine, it is planned that the EPA will be providing water treatment services under contract with the Company and such services will continue for at least five years or more. Although no firm agreement has yet been reached, recent discussions with the EPA also indicate that overflows from the mill or decant from the tailings facilities could also be treated at the water treatment plant under the same treatment contract.
If all of the mine water, mill outflows, and tailings discharges can be treated by the EPA treatment plant as currently contemplated, the Company will be initially relieved of the need to obtain a water discharge permit. Upon initiating mine production from the UTZ, Newgard, and Quill zones at rates of approximately 1500 tons per day, the Company would anticipate mining approximately 540,000 tons per year of material. The three aforementioned zones are believed to have sufficient mineral to supply the Company mining needs for approximately 8 years.
Once the repairs are completed to the Kellogg Tunnel, mineralized material haulage will be able to immediately occur out of this tunnel, which will enhance the production capabilities of the mine by several magnitudes. Some mineralized material will continue to be transported by rubber-tired equipment directly out the Russel Tunnel, but the majority of mineralized material will be dropped down existing internal passes and be hauled out of the KT on rail. By this time in the restart program the Company would expect to be in production at around 1500 tons per day, which is approximately the planned mill capacity. If all items proceed as planned, the Company believes a steady state production of 1500 tons per day is achievable in approximately 36 months from the time of takeover of operations.
Additionally, once the KT repairs are completed, work on the repairs of the shafts and hoists can proceed with greater speed and the lower levels of the mine can be dewatered. The shaft work and pumping should commence at about year two of mine operations.
Numerous other past-producing mineral bodies will begin to be revealed as the water levels are lowered and the mine is drained to the fullest. Some of these mineral bodies are lead-silver rich zones such as the Emery, Shea, Veral and the “J”, while others will add more material containing zinc such as the Tallon, Rosco, or Tony, while still others are best described as polymetallic such as the New Landers or the Francis.
The Company geologists and engineering personnel have studied the past records thoroughly and conclude that very good exploration and discovery potential exists at depth on downward rakes of known structures. Strata-bound zones such as the Newgard, Quill and Tallon await drilling to the west, while both the southeast and northwest limits of the main original Bunker Hill structure, in the heart of the Cate/Dull fault system, still remain viable as targets for future discovery of new mineral bodies or extensions of past mined structures.
Technical Report
On September 6, 2018, the Company filed on SEDAR a National Instrument 43-101 (“NI 43-101”) technical report on its Bunker Hill property.
The technical report included:
1. A 10-12 million ton Exploration Target comprised of the Quill/Newgard zones. For comparison purposes, the historical resource estimate for the whole Bunker Hill property is 9.1 million tons grading 5.08% Zn, 2.35% Pb and 40 g/t Ag (or 1.29 ounces per ton);
2. Results of Independent Sampling showing grades for the Quill/Newgard zones (Levels 9 & 10) averaging 20% Zn, 14% Pb and 247 g/t Ag (or 7.90 ounces per ton), which exceed average historic grades; and
3. a Plan for a US$7.7 million Exploration Program to upgrade the historic resources to a NI 43-101 Indicated Resource.
Additionally, as noted, the Company currently has in its possession, and has had access to, numerous historical technical reports that were completed in the past by highly qualified parties.
ITEM 3.