ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
Cautionary Note to U.S. Investors Regarding Resource Estimates
Certain terms used in this section are those used in accordance with the requirements of the securities laws in effect in Canada, which differ from the requirements of U.S. securities laws. Canadian requirements, including NI 43-101, differ significantly from the requirements of the SEC, and resource information contained herein may not be comparable to similar information disclosed by U.S. companies.
In particular, and without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the term “resource” does not equate to the term “reserves”. The requirements of NI 43-101 for identification of “reserves” are not the same as those of the SEC, and reserves reported in compliance with NI 43-101 may not qualify as “reserves” under SEC standards. Under U.S. standards, mineralization may not be classified as a “reserve” unless the determination has been made that the mineralization could be economically and legally produced or extracted at the time the reserve determination is made.
The SEC’s disclosure standards normally do not recognize information concerning “measured mineral resources”, “indicated mineral resources” or “inferred mineral resources” or other descriptions of the amount of mineralization in mineral deposits that do not constitute “reserves” by U.S. standards, in documents filed with the SEC. In addition, resources that are classified as “inferred mineral resources” have a great amount of uncertainty as to their existence and great uncertainty as to their economic and legal feasibility. It cannot be assumed that all or any part of an “inferred mineral resource” will ever be upgraded to a higher category. Under Canadian rules, estimated “inferred mineral resources” may not generally form the basis of feasibility or pre-feasibility studies. Investors are cautioned not to assume that all or any part of an “inferred mineral resource” exists or is economically or legally mineable.
Disclosure of “contained ounces” in a resource is permitted disclosure under Canadian regulations, however, the SEC normally only permits issuers to report mineralization that does not constitute “reserves” by SEC standards as in-place tonnage and grade without reference to unit measures.
Accordingly, information concerning mineral deposits set forth herein may not be comparable with information presented by companies using only U.S. standards in their public disclosure.
Description of Mineral Projects
SPRINGER MINE PROPERTY
Our principal asset is the Springer mine property, a former tungsten producing operation located in Imlay, Nevada, wholly owned by us through a subsidiary, Springer Mining Company, a Nevada corporation. Springer is classified as a United States Property for purposes of financial statement segment information.
The Springer Mine Property represents a completed mine, mill, and production complex which was operated briefly by Utah International Inc. for the General Electric Company from 1980 to 1981. The Springer Mine was closed in 1982 due to low tungsten prices. The facilities have been held on care and maintenance since that time, however significant investments by us have been made to the facilities in recent years and operations at the mine and mill facility could be restarted relatively quickly.
Significant investment in the mill and facilities was made by EMC between 2006 and 2008. This refurbish and upgrade work was nearly complete to make the primary milling and flotation circuits in the Springer mill fully operational. Work remaining to make the tungsten processing facility fully operational includes the addition of a gravity circuit, addition and installation of a molybdenum flotation/recovery circuit, certain modifications to the existing flotation circuits, and completion of the installation of new automatic controls throughout the mill. Metallurgical testing by EMC Metals has shown that the process design is capable of producing a saleable scheelite concentrate product containing in excess of 65% tungsten oxide (WO3). The test work utilizes a combination of gravity separation and flotation. Additional work and investment has been conducted to expand the mill capacity from the original design of 1,000tpd to 1,200tpd.
In consideration of rising market prices for tungsten, during 2012 we made a decision to consider a restart of Springer operations. We conducted a re-assessment of the mineral resource and commissioned a restart plan for mining activities at Springer. The results of that reassessment were published publically on SEDAR, dated September 20, 2012, as a preliminary economic assessment (“PEA”). We are currently evaluating alternatives for the financing and management of restart rehabilitation and operational restart activities, and have conducted further independent studies for management that have not been published.
Property Description and Location
The Springer Mine Property is located approximately 25 miles southwest of the city of Winnemucca, in Pershing County, Nevada, and approximately 125 miles northeast of Reno, Nevada (see Figure 1). The mine has all season access by a gravel road in fair condition. The mine site is located at geographic coordinate’s 40°46’56”N. latitude and 118°07’58”W longitude, (UTM coordinates are 4,515,212N and 404,438W, Zone 11, WGS84).
Figure 1: Location of Springer Property, Copper King Property, and Carlin Vanadium Property
Ownership
The Springer Facility is 100% owned by our wholly owned subsidiary, Springer Mining Company. It is comprised of 340 Lode mineral claims totalling approximately 7,024 acres, 25 placer claims totalling approximately 500 acres and fee lands totalling approximately 3,756 acres. The total area of the Springer Facility is approximately 11,280 acres, including all mineral claims and fee lands.
Geology and Mineralization
The Springer Facility is located on the eastern flank of the Eugene Mountains, a block-faulted horst of the Basin and Range tectonic province. The area is underlain by Mesozoic, metasedimentary rocks intruded by Cretaceous granitic rocks, which were later overlain by Tertiary Volcanic rocks. The meta-sedimentary rocks are composed of pelitic Sediments with thin beds of micritic limestone. These limestone beds host scheelite-bearing, contact metasomatic skarn deposits. These are arranged in two general horizons each with several individual beds. The horizons Strike north-northeast and Dip steeply to the northwest and to the southeast. Scheelite is the only tungsten mineral identified in the skarns. It occurs in early veins and as finely disseminated grains along localized marble fronts. It is also associated with later alteration of garnet and pyroxene, where it occurs as coarse-grained aggregates and fine to medium-grained, euhedral dipyramidal crystals.
Historical Work
There were three main phases of exploration work conducted on the Springer Facility by three different owner/operators. These exploration periods include:
I. Exploration drilling and underground sampling by Nevada-Massachusetts Corporation (NMC) between 1925 and 1958;
II. Exploration drilling and underground channel sampling completed by General Electric (GE) and Utah International Inc. (UII between during 1973 and 1982); and
III. Diamond drilling and reverse circulation drilling completed by EMC Metals in 2007 and 2008.
The NMC exploration work focused mainly within the mineralized beds located at the Stank and Springer-Humboldt Mines. No specific NMC sample or Assay data of from any of the drifting, mining or drilling is available for any of these areas.
The exploration drilling and sampling completed by GE and UII focused primarily on the Sutton I and Sutton II areas of the property. The vast majority of the modern exploration data was collected during this phase of work. GE and UII compiled most of the older NMC data, rehabilitated the historic underground workings, drilled 119 diamond Core holes from surface and underground, extended the underground workings and analyzed approximately 3,200 samples.
We completed the most recent exploration work in 2007 and 2008. During this time, seven diamond Core and 251 reverse circulation (RC) drill holes were completed in three main areas. We drilled 81 holes in the George beds, 79 holes in the Mill Beds and 51 holes in the Sutton I Beds. All of this drilling focused on near surface Mineralization in order to evaluate the open pit potential. A few diamond Core holes were located in the Sutton II areas for confirmation and expansion of the historical resources.
Prior to the decline of tungsten prices in 2008, the Springer mill had been the focus of an aggressive rehabilitation and expansion program by us over two years. Work is nearly complete to make the primary milling and flotation circuits fully operational. The necessary equipment and supplies to complete these circuits are on site. Work remaining to make the tungsten processing facility fully operational includes the addition of a gravity circuit, addition and installation of a molybdenum flotation/recovery circuit, certain modifications to the existing flotation circuits, and completion of the installation of new automatic controls throughout the mill.
Metallurgical testing by EMC Metals has shown that the process design is capable of producing a saleable scheelite concentrate product containing in excess of 65% tungsten oxide (WO3). The test work utilizes a combination of gravity separation and flotation.
Additional work has been conducted to expand the mill capacity from the original design of 1,000 tpd up to 1,200 tpd. This work is approximately 85% complete.
Mineral Resources and Preliminary Economic Assessment
On September 20, 2012 we announced the results of a Preliminary Economic Assessment (“PEA”), including an updated resource estimate. The PEA was prepared for EMC by Associated Geosciences LTD. of Calgary, Alberta, Canada, and Practical Mining LLC. of Elko, Nevada, USA, both independent mining industry consultants. The PEA provides the first NI 43-101 compliant economic analysis on Springer, and was commissioned as part of EMC’s planned restart of the Springer mining and milling operations.
Highlights from the PEA/Resource Update:
Project restart is economic, feasible, and supported by current tungsten prices, based on a five year NI 43-101 production resource;
Five year mine life net present value (NPV) of $22.8 million (8% discount, constant dollar, after tax);
Internal rate of return (IRR) of 47% on restart capital of $30 million;
Indicated resource of 355,000 tons (29.6% increase over previous resource estimate);
Inferred resource of 1,933,620 tons (76.3% increase over previous resource estimate);
New resource added on western side of the property, no previous resource estimate; and
Average annual tungsten (WO3 ) production of 134,960 MTU (total 674,790 MTU).
The PEA updates the resource estimate published in a prior NI 43-101 Technical Report titled, “NI 43-101 Technical Report on Resources, EMC Metals Corp., Springer Facility- Sutton Beds, Nevada, USA” prepared by SRK Consulting of Lakewood, Colorado, filed on SEDAR in May, 2009. The PEA both increases the resource tonnage and also adds an economic estimate to the project in restart. The resource update also adds tonnage on the western side of the property, where no resource had previously been established, despite having been the site of historic tungsten production. The western resource has promising potential for Springer, because the historic production records and current NI 43-101 drilling confirm superior tungsten grades, albeit at narrower vein widths.
The financial analysis of the mine restart, based on the current NI 43-101 resource, defines a 5 year mine life. The overall financial results, as presented in the PEA, are as follows:
NOTE: A metric tonne unit (MTU) is the standard unit of measure for tungsten in trading markets. One MTU equals 22.04 pounds of contained WO3, or 100th of a tonne of WO3.
The mine plan in the PEA calls for the conversion of the existing Sutton Mine from a cut and fill operation, as designed by the prior operator, the General Electric Company (“GE”), to a modern longhole mining operation, more properly termed end-slicing. Sutton will be re-developed with ramps connecting drifts at various levels, modern rubber-tired equipment, and production and mine access utilizing both the existing shaft/hoist house and a new mine adit approaching mineralized beds from lower elevation ground to the south.
The mine plan also calls for a second independent mining operation at O’Byrne, on the western side of the granite intrusion, utilizing the same mining techniques and equipment, with twin adit access. The hilly topography in the western beds lends itself to declined adit techniques that achieve sufficient depth to make for economic development.
The updated NI 43-101 resource provides for 4.8 years of mining from Sutton, and only 1.5 years from O’Byrne, but at substantially higher grades.
This updated resource, included in the PEA, is as follows:
The effective date of each estimate of mineral resources above is August 20, 2012.
Permitting and environmental matters are largely in place, although the Company is currently seeking a right of way from the US Bureau of Land Management for rights to re-install a tailings pipeline to an existing tailings pond, planned to be put into service to secure mill tailings not backfilled into the mine.
Project economics assume a two year trailing average constant dollar $400/MTU APT price, and derive a concentrate price from that benchmark tungsten price, which is publically quoted. All dollar amounts for costs are also considered to be constant dollar-no escalation for inflation has been considered, and thus the 8% discount rate applied to cash flows to generate Net Present Values (“NPV’s”) should also be considered a constant dollar rate.
Economics do not assume any economic recovery of molybdenum disulphide (MoS2). There is no molybdenum resource established for the property which corresponds to the mineable tungsten resource, therefore no co-product credit in the PEA. There is capital included in the $30 million total restart estimate to separate (float) molybdenum, because it has historically been present in the resource and must be removed from concentrates to meet customer product specifications.
First concentrate production is expected during the first half of 2014.
The NI 43-101compliant Technical Report, titled “Preliminary Economic Assessment on the Springer Tungsten Mine, Pershing County, Nevada, USA”, (the “PEA”), was filed on SEDAR October 2, 2012 and is available for public review at www.sedar.com.
The earlier NI 43-101 compliant resource technical report on the Springer property, independently prepared by Dr. Bart Stryhas of SRK Consulting Engineers and Scientists of Lakewood, Colorado, titled, “NI 43-101 Technical Report on Resources Springer Facility- Sutton Beds, Nevada, USA” is dated May 15, 2009, was filed on SEDAR on May 26, 2009 and is also available for public review at www.sedar.com.
NYNGAN SCANDIUM PROJECT
Property Description and Location
The Nyngan scandium resource is located approximately 500 kilometres northwest of Sydney, Australia. The property consists of two exploration licenses, controlled by Jervois, which encompass over 9,000 hectares. Nyngan is classified as an Australia Property for purposes of financial statement segment information.
The scandium resource is hosted within the lateritic zone of the Gilgai Intrusion, one of several Alaskan-type mafic and ultramafic bodies which intrude Cambrian-Ordovician metasediments collectively called the Girilambone Group. The laterite zone, locally up to 40 metres thick, is layered with hematitic clay at the surface followed by limonitic clay, saprolitic clay, weathered bedrock and finally fresh bedrock. The scandium mineralization is concentrated within the hematitic, limonitic, and saprolitic zones with values up to 350 ppm scandium.
The location of the property is provided in Figure 2 below. The location of the exploration licenses that we may earn an interest in are provided in Figure 3 below.
Mineral Resource
In March of 2010 a NI 43-101 technical report which outlined a resources estimate on the Nyngan Scandium Project was completed. The report, titled, “NI 43-101 Technical Report on the Nyngan Gilgai Scandium Project, Jervois Mining Limited, Nyngan, New South Wales, Australia”, was prepared by or under the supervision of Max Rangott (BSc). The resource estimate is summarized in Table 2 below.
Table 2
Current Program - Overview
In February of 2010, the Company entered into a joint venture agreement (the “JV”) with Jervois Mining Limited (“Jervois”) of Melbourne, Australia to develop the Nyngan scandium property. The terms of the JV require EMC to earn in to a 50% position through a two stage work program.
the first stage required EMC to spend a minimum of A$500,000 on project exploration and metallurgical test work by mid December 2010, and
the second stage required the delivery of a feasibility study in the first quarter of 2012.
The stage I work timeframe were extended into 2011 and those first stage requirements were met during the second quarter of 2011. Second stage feasibility study work, was initiated in June 2011. To this end, we engaged SNC-Lavalin Inc. (Brisbane, Australia) to prepare a National Instrument NI 43-101 compliant technical report on the economics of the project. To support process design, costing, and production level assumptions, the results of metallurgical test work done by Hazen Research Inc. together with previous test-work by the CSIRO and METCON Laboratories, were used directly by SNC-Lavalin Inc. in compiling their report.
On February 24, 2012, EMC delivered to Jervois an independent NI 43-101 report entitled "Technical Report on the Feasibility of the Nyngan Scandium Project” dated February 23, 2012, which was prepared by SNC-Lavalin.
No further technical work was accomplished during 2012 due to legal dispute proceedings with Jervois. Subsequent to our settlement of legal dispute with Jervois in February 2012, we are assessing near and mid-term technical work programs and project schedule. For further information on the legal dispute with Jervois, please refer to “Item 1.Business - Recent History - Nyngan Project Acquisition - Exploration Joint Venture with Jervois Mining Limited”.
Metallurgy Development
The first work phase of the metallurgy development program consisted of detailed metallurgical bench scale testing, and was intended to refine and enhance the Company’s existing material process flow sheet to extract scandium from the resource material. This existing flow sheet, developed by Jervois and external consultants, formed the basis of a preliminary, conceptual engineering report for the processing elements of the project that was completed by Roberts & Schaefer of Salt Lake City, Utah.
The Roberts & Schaefer report included capital and operating cost estimates, based on process flow sheets and technical reports done for Jervois or EMC on various metallurgical aspects of the resource. These technical/process reports were done by METCON Laboratories of Sydney, Australia, the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Organization (CSIRO), Australia’s national science agency, or by other research work, proprietary to or sourced by Jervois or EMC. The bulk of the process applied by Roberts & Schaefer in their Report was defined by bench scale as well as small scale pilot plant work results compiled by others, and a preliminary flow sheet complied by the CSIRO.
Highlights of the report are as follows:
Capital costs for the laterite processing facility are estimated at US$56 million, including US$15 million for a sulphuric acid plant on site,
Processing costs are estimated at less than US$300/kg Sc2 O3 ,
The hydrometallurgical plant is designed to process approximately of 250 tpd of resource,
Production of Sc2 O3 is estimated at 28,000 kilograms per year, and
Process assumptions are proprietary, follow earlier work done by METCON Research and the CSIRO of Australia, and include standard and accepted processes for applying ore preparation, leaching, solvent extraction and product preparation methodologies.
Note that mineral resources that are not mineral reserves do not have demonstrated economic viability. The above estimates of capital and operating costs are a component of a number of factors required to complete a preliminary assessment of the economic viability of the project, and there is no guarantee that the company will achieve production from the resource at Nyngan.
In January 2011, EMC announced results of initial lab test work, independently prepared by Hazen Research, Inc., of Golden, Colorado, USA. These results defined general results involving conventional contained acid leach systems and suggested recoveries from resource of up to 75%. No secondary recoveries were considered in these initial bench-scale tests.
The second phase of the Hazen test work program continued through July, and involved continuous pilot plant testing of the acid leach systems, solvent extraction systems and product finish systems identified by earlier CSIRO work. The overall objectives of the test work program were to define and optimize a process or series of processes that achieves an 80% scandium recovery, lowest possible capital and operating costs, and most benign environmental impact, using standard and accepted processes.
On January 19, 2012 we announced receipt an independent metallurgical test-work report, titled "Purification of Scandium Extracted from Laterite Ore", outlining the results of a number of pilot-scale tests on Nyngan resource material, and estimated recoveries and grades of scandium oxide product. The report was independently prepared by Hazen and is the final in a series of three phases of semi-continuous pilot plant scale test-work completed by Hazen during 2011. Work was finalized in late November.
Highlights of the 2011 Hazen semi-continuous pilot plant test-work are as follows:
Results of conventional contained sulfuric acid bake and water leach systems, at atmospheric pressure, demonstrated scandium recoveries averaging 75%,
Results of conventional solvent extraction ("SX") on the pregnant leach solution, demonstrated scandium recoveries exceeding 99%,
Results on final stage precipitation of scandium oxide, focused on highest combined purity and recovery, demonstrated scandium recoveries of 97.5%, at purity levels of 97.5% Sc2O3,
Overall recovery results were 70% to 80%, based on ore type (limonite or saprolite), and
All process assumptions were based on standard and accepted techniques for ore preparation, leaching, solvent extraction and final product preparation.
In February, 2011 EMC announced results of a series of laboratory-scale tests investigating the production of scandium-aluminum (“Sc-Al”) alloys directly from aluminum oxide and scandium oxide feed materials, prepared by the CSIRO. The overall objective of this research was to demonstrate and commercialize the production of Sc-Al master alloy using impure scandium oxide as the scandium source, potentially significantly improving the economics of scandium aluminum master alloy production.
Environmental Permitting Work
In April, 2011 EMC announced a general progress report on the project which outlined a series of environmental work steps designed to advance the Environmental Impact Study (“EIS”). Work steps included both ground and surface water assessments, along with other assessments of Aboriginal, ecology, traffic, noise and air quality matters.
All of this work has subsequently been completed, including 8 water bores with ongoing test monitoring equipment, and reports on the various other targeted assessments, without material issues in any area. An aerial photography and contour mapping program was also completed, to support the feasibility study work regarding location of site facilities.
On January 18, 2012 EMC announced that that key elements of environmental site work on the Nyngan Scandium Project have been completed and a Conceptual Project Development Plan (CPDP) submitted to the NSW, Australia state regulators. The CPDP submission forms the basis for an Environmental Impact Study ("EIS"), the foundation environmental document required for a mining permit in the state.
Specific EIS and property work, contained in the CPDP, completed by year end 2011:
Draft ground water assessment study finalized and submitted to regulators,
Surface water assessment results favorable, State review ongoing,
Aboriginal heritage study finalized, no areas of significance,
Soils study finalized, no issues, and
Property aerial photography and contour mapping completed, location of site facilities defined.
Continuing EIS work underway:
License applications (6), for access to groundwater as generated from property water bores have been submitted,
Flora and fauna studies are ongoing; to-date no significant issues have arisen, and
Traffic, noise and air quality baseline monitoring are ongoing.
The environmental work was performed under direction from R. W. Corkery & Co., (Orange, NSW, Australia), and formed part of the SNC-Lavalin NI 43-101 Nyngan feasibility study.
CARLIN VANADIUM PROPERTY
We have a 100% interest in 72 unpatented mineral claims comprising the Carlin Vanadium Property, in Elko County, Nevada. The Carlin Vanadium Property is classified as a United States Property for purposes of financial statement segment information.
The property was explored by Union Carbide in the 1960’s. We have not performed any exploration on this property, however in 2010 we commissioned SRK Consulting of Lakewood, Colorado to prepare a technical report in the form required under NI 43-101.
Property Description and Location
The Carlin Vanadium Property consists of 72 unpatented mining claims covering 1,140 acres. The property was explored and drilled by Union Carbide Corporation in the late 1960’s resulting in a defined vanadium resource. The claim group is located in North-Central Nevada in Elko County, 7 air miles south of Carlin. The vanadium resource is centered about UTM Zone 11N geographical coordinates 574,328E, 4,495,637N (Lat 40°36’29”N, Long 116°07’17”W). Carlin, with a population of 2,500 is the largest town in the area. See figure 1 above for a location map of the property.
Geology and Mineralization
The Carlin Vanadium Property is located on the western flank of the Piñon Range, a block faulted horst of the basin and range tectonic province. The local lithologies are predominantly Paleozoic age, western assemblage, siliceous rocks transported above the Roberts Mountain Thrust. These are overlain by Tertiary age Rhyolite flows and Pliocene lake Sediments. The mineralized zones are certain stratigraphic sections of the Woodruff Formation hosting elevated concentrations of vanadium. There do not appear to be any physical markers in the lithology which indicate areas of Mineralization. All the mineralized zones are defined by chemical analysis. The Mineralization is stratigraphically controlled and appears to follow the Strike and Dip of the host lithology. Drilling to date has defined a zone of Mineralization striking north-south over 6,100 feet of length and dipping 5°- 30° west averaging 2,500 feet of down Dip extent.
Historical Work
All of the exploration and development on the property was completed by previous owners. The Carlin Vanadium Deposit was discovered in the 1960s by Union Carbide Corporation when significantly anomalous vanadium was found in samples collected by Union Carbide geologists. During 1967 and 1968 Union Carbide conducted exploration work including geological mapping, approximately 15,000 feet of trenching and 30,500 feet of drilling in 112 holes, outlining a significant 300 by 1000 meter zone of vanadium Mineralization within the current claim boundary. In 1968 Union Carbide used this work to complete a historical resource estimation of 19.69M tons @ 0.83% V2O5. Historical exploration was restricted to within 150m from surface with an average drill hole depth of 75 meters. This historical resource has not been verified by us or by a Qualified Person, and accordingly we cannot confirm its reliability for the purpose of current resource classification methods referred to in NI 43-101. As a result, while we consider this historical information to be relevant, the information should not be relied upon and we are not treating this information as a current mineral resource.
Union Carbide conducted extensive metallurgical testing in the 1960’s and at the time could not produce an economical process for extracting the vanadium. Developments in heap leaching technologies in the 1970’s have shown economic recoveries of vanadium from geologically similar projects such as Gibellini Vanadium Project (Rocky Mountain Resources). We are currently investigating a number of new processes to economically extract the vanadium from the Carlin deposit.
The Carlin Vanadium Property also covers an interesting gold occurrence and in 1998, Cambior Inc. and Sante Fe Pacific Mining Inc. used rock chip sampling to outline an approximate 550 feet northeast trending (>100 ppb) gold anomaly within the Devonian Woodruff Formation and drilled 20 holes totalling 2700 feet in length to test the anomalous zone. The best results were obtained in drill hole CBK-2 which intersected 0.01 oz. per ton gold from 5 to 70 feet within the Woodruff Formation immediately below the unconformity. This gold occurrence warrants further investigation to determine whether there is a possibility of a Carlin-type gold system on the property. We have not verified these historical results, and while we believe them to be relevant, we caution that this historical drilling information should not be relied upon.
Resource Estimation
In 2010, we commissioned SRK Consulting to prepare an NI 43-101 technical report and to produce a current resource estimation for the Carlin Vanadium Project. The report, titled, “NI 43-101 Technical Report on Resources EMC Metals Corp. Carlin Vanadium Project, Carlin Nevada”, was prepared by Bart Stryha, PhD of SRK Consulting, a Qualified Person as defined by NI 43-101.
The resource estimation is supported by information from the 152 rotary drill-holes totalling 36,525 feet. The drillhole database was compiled by us and verified by SRK Consulting. The resource estimation is based on a generalized geologic model and confined within a V2O5 Grade shell. Each model block was assigned an average density based on the lithologies present. Mineralization is interpreted to follow along the plane of bedding with a general orientation striking N-S dipping 5° to 25° west. Drill-hole samples were composited into 25 foot bench lengths without breaks at geologic contacts. The raw V2O5 assays were capped at 2.2% prior to compositing. The model blocks are 50ft x 50ft x 25ft in the x,y,z directions, respectively. V2O5 Grades were estimated using an Inverse Weighting to the second power. A minimum of 3 and maximum of 12 composites were required for the block Grade estimations. The results of the resource estimation provided a CIM classified Inferred Mineral Resource as shown in Table 3 below. The quality of the historical data is good and the mineral resource was classified as inferred mainly due to the fact that the rotary drilling has not been verified by modern program.
Table 3
The 0.3% V2O5 cut-off-grade was chosen for resource reporting based on the reasonable potential for economic extraction under a conceptual open pit mining and milling scenario. The cut-off-grade was calculated using $2.30/ton mining cost, $35/ton milling cost, $0.50/ton admin cost, 65% recovery, 95% selling pay-for, 1% freight charge, 0% royalty and a $10.46/lb V2O5 value. The V2O5 price is based on a five year trailing average value. This analysis resulted in a break-even cut-off-grade of 0.30% . The results reported in the resource statement are rounded to reflect the approximation of Grade and quantity, which can be achieved at this level of resource estimation.
COPPER KING TUNGSTEN PROPERTY
Property Description and Location
We have a 100% interest in the Copper King Property which is located in Pershing County, Nevada. The Copper King Project consists of 7 unpatented claims and 9 patented claims covering 250ha is located on the west flank of the Trinity Range in Pershing Co., Nevada (see Figure 1 above). The Copper King Property is classified as a United States Property for purposes of financial statement segment information.
Geology and Mineralization
The Copper King tungsten Mineralization is hosted within 5 separate, parallel Triassic-Jurassic Sedimentary horizons including argillite, quartzite, and marble, in contact with a Cretaceous granodiorite Intrusion. Limestone beds within the sedimentary package have been silicified forming steeply dipping, epidote-garnet skarns.
Historical Work
The Copper King Property was originally staked in the early 1900s as a copper prospect and very little is known about the early historical work until scheelite was discovered on the property in 1949. The property was mined in 1952 by Cordero Mining Company who removed 750 tons of ore and again in 1956 by Wallace and Durkin, who removed 193 tons of Ore from one of two vertical shafts.
In 1969, the property was optioned to Nevada Tungsten and Copper Inc. who completed 2,184 feet of Diamond drilling in 4 holes which ranged in depth from 279 feet to 935 feet.
In 1976, General Electric Co. acquired the property and carried out extensive mapping, sampling, and drilling.
Exploration
The Copper King project is an early stage exploration project and we are currently evaluating the property for future exploration potential.
NORWAY SCANDIUM PROPERTIES
During 2011 we entered into two option agreements with REE Mining AS of Norway, to obtain exploration rights to several properties in central and southern Norway. The Tørdal , Evje-Iveland and Hogtuva properties are classified as Norway Property for purposes of financial statement segment information.
Option agreements to acquire central Norway properties, Tørdal and Evje-Iveland were entered into in April 2011 and an option agreement for the Hogtuva property, located in southern Norway, was signed in September 2011. Both of these agreements have been renegotiated to secure 100% ownership positions for EMC.
Tørdal and Evje-Iveland Properties, Norway
The location of the Tørdal exploration property is provided in Figure 4 below.
In April of 2011, we entered into an option agreement with REE Mining AS of Norway, pursuant to which we acquired the option to earn 100% of the outstanding common shares in the capital of a Norwegian limited liability company which holds the exploration rights to two pegmatite properties, known as the Tørdal property and the Evje-Iveland property. The properties are both prospective for a grouping of specialty metals, and rare earth elements, including scandium, yttrium, tantalum, beryllium, niobium, zirconium, titanium, lithium, nickel and tin.
Terms of the REE Option Agreement provided for a two stage earn-in option including cash payments totalling $650,000, work commitments totalling $250,000, and an EMC share grant of 1 million EMC shares, with payments due in October 2012 and June 2013.
On January 16, 2013 we announced a renegotiated earn-in immediately accelerating our ownership of the Tørdal exploration licenses to 100%. The renegotiated agreement canceled all outstanding cash payments ($500,000), and all remaining work commitments, in return for payment of certain property costs and other costs totalling $65,000 in December/January 2013, the 1 million EMC share grant, and a 1% net smelter return (“NSR”) on production proceeds from the property. As part of the amended agreement, EMC relinquished all rights to the Evje-Iveland property, which were returned to REE Mining.
2012 Tørdal Field Exploration
On February 14, 2013 we announced promising results from field exploration work on the Tørdal property during the summer and fall months of 2012, focussed on scandium-bearing pegmatites. The 2012 work included independent assay results of pegmatite rock samples taken from one specific property area, and also includes an extensive pegmatite mapping program covering approximately 30 sq km. The assay results indicated the presence of high levels of scandium and various rare earth elements (REE’s), including heavy rare earth elements (HREE’s) in particular. Field XRF readings indicated elevated scandium content in hundreds of large and small pegmatite bodies found and mapped in the reconnaissance area.
Highlights of the results of the 2012 field exploration are as follows:
Tørdal 2012 assays of pegmatite rocks show presence of both scandium and REE’s,
Best scandium assays exceed 1,600 ppm,
Promising HREE assay results from pegmatites with gadolinite mineralization,
Host rock mineralization points to higher grade scandium or HREE contents,
2012 summer exploration program mapped and sampled over 300 pegmatites,
A total of 1,940 Niton XRF scandium readings were taken on whole rock samples, and
Overall program results at Tørdal are very encouraging and warrant expanded exploration.
Assay Results of Grab Samples at Tørdal
The 2011 summer exploration program on the Tørdal property consisted of reconnaissance, surface soil sampling, and limited pegmatite mapping work in a relatively small area north of the village of Kleppe, in Southern Norway.
As a follow-on from that 2011 program, the company then returned to the same area and conducted a series of ‘blasts’, using small explosive charges to generate whole rock samples on select exposed pegmatites, at the locations of the best soil sample results. The exploration team planned 9 blasts and conducted 8, on 5 different pegmatite bodies, from which they assembled 23 grab samples for analysis and assay by OMAC Laboratories in Ireland. Assay results on these samples were received in Q1 2012-in time to help formulate the 2012 summer/autumn season pegmatite mapping program, conducted on a much wider area.
Independent assay results on 20 of the 23 samples, covering all 5 targeted pegmatites, are shown below.
Assay results are as-reported elemental assay results from OMAC Laboratories, and are not converted to oxide equivalent (REO & Sc2O3). Heavy rare earth elements abbreviated “HREE”; and include Yttrium;Total rare earth elements abbreviated “TREE”.
The numbered assay samples were formed either by random selection of fresh (un-weathered) whole rock material broken loose from individual pegmatite bodies, or alternatively, based on selectively collecting fresh rock material that was clearly (1) garnet-laden, (2) mica-laden, or showed clear visible (3) gadolinite mineralization. Gadolinite is a beryllium and rare earth-bearing mineral with the chemical formula [(Ce,La,Nd,Y)2 FeBe2Si2O10]. The intent was to determine from assay results if certain visible mineralization correlated to the presence and concentrations of target elements; specifically scandium, rare earth elements (REE’s), or other metals of interest and value.
The results in the assay table indicate that all of the selected pegmatites contain interesting levels of both REE’s and scandium. In general, all of the pegmatites contained both target elements, while the mica phase appears to hold the higher scandium concentrations with small REE additions, and the gadolinite phase holds the highest REE concentrations and small scandium additions. The presence of garnet material in samples tended to generate interesting but moderate values for both REE’s and scandium. Assay work was designed to identify 30 specific elements, including all 16 REE elements plus scandium, and the relative concentration of heavy REE’s was of particular interest. The mica and garnet grab sample materials had generally only trace levels of thorium and uranium (average <15 ppm), while the gadolinite grab sample materials had thorium levels between 2,500-5,000 ppm, and uranium levels between 500-1,300 ppm. A full table of OMAC assay results related to these 23 sample analyses is available on EMC’s website at www.emcmetals.com.
Reconnaissance Results - Extended Pegmatite Mapping Program at Tørdal
Following on from the 2011 work and the 2012 assay results, EMC conducted an expanded 2012 summer work reconnaissance program at both Tørdal and Evje-Iveland, from July through October. The goals of the 2012 program were to develop detailed mapping of outcropping pegmatite fields over a much broader area than the 2011 program, while also conducting field sampling of scandium mineralization on those pegmatites using a hand-held Niton XRF Analyzer.
The 2012 program concentrated on five separate areas (approximately 30 sq km) as can be seen in the map below:
A total of 1,940 Niton XRF readings were logged on whole rock and pegmatite mineral separates, logged against individually mapped and numbered pegmatite bodies. The XRF readings ranged up to +6,000 ppm scandium (on a mineral separate), and averaged 661 ppm on 1,504 total logged readings above the instrument’s 20 ppm detection limit. XRF readings focussed on scandium data collection only, although the team diligently noted the visible presence of gadolinite and amazonite mineralization.
The reader is cautioned that hand-held Niton XRF readings are not the same as laboratory assays, and are not NI 43-101 compliant with regard to estimating resource grades. However, the Company is confident that these data readings are highly useful in confirming and shaping the next stage of the exploration program on this property.
A summary of results by area is as follows:
Area 1 (Kleppe). Mapped more than 50 pegmatite bodies. Best average XRF Sc readings from 1,000-1,500 ppm, some very large surface expressions. Gadolinite present.
Area 2 (Heftetjern); Partially mapped more than 40 pegmatite bodies, many large surface expressions, green amazonite mineralization. Better XRF Sc readings from 500-1,500 ppm.
Area 3 (Solli); Mapped numerous large and small pegmatites. Generally lower XRF Sc readings, ranging 300-700 ppm. Red feldspars, quartz and gadolinite mineralization present.
Area 4 (South Kleppsvatn); Partially mapped large area containing more than 80 pegmatites, generally mica-based. Typical XRF Sc readings in the 300-900 ppm range, with some reaching 1,500 ppm Sc.
Area 5 (Buvatn); Partially mapped, numerous pegmatite bodies, some very large. Typical XRF Sc readings in the 300-1,000 ppm range. Old feldspar quarries, amonizite mineralization present.
Similar work done at Evje-Iveland (total 180 sq km) identified several interesting target areas, but scandium readings were not sufficiently attractive when compared to results at Tørdal. These observations led to the decision to drop Evje-Iveland, as part of an amended agreement which also enabled EMC to achieve an immediate 100% earn-in on Tørdal.
The exploration results of the 2012 work program also allowed EMC to selectively reduce property holdings at Tørdal in January 2013. The property has been reduced from 140 sq km to 90 sq km, with lower ongoing exploration license holding costs as a result.
Next Steps in Norway Exploration Program
EMC’s mapping and sampling work has confirmed that much of the Tørdal property is heavily populated with complex, near-surface pegmatite bodies. Based on hand-held XRF readings and mineralogy, these pegmatites show excellent promise for significant scandium enrichment, particularly within bodies containing micas, and for REE mineralization where the rare earth silicate gadolinite is present. Based on the results of 2012 exploration work, planning for exploration work to be conducted during 2013 is underway.
Qualified Person and Quality Assurance/Quality Control
Sampling methods followed industry quality control standards. Mr. Kjell Nilsen, an independent geologist consultant currently employed by EMC, conducted the reconnaissance and sampling on the property. Individual whole rock grab samples were collected by hand shovel, from areas where blasted material could be seen to have come from blast points on pegmatite bodies. The assayed samples were individually bagged, sealed, logged on the grid map as to location, boxed in a container suitable for mailing, and sent by express mail to OMAC Laboratories Limited in Galway, Ireland for testing. Assay testing on the samples utilized an ICP-MS spectrometer (Inductively Coupled Plasma-Mass Spectrometry) to test for numerous elements, specifically scandium. The numerous Niton XRF (X-ray Fluorescence) readings were taken at field locations, logged and identified with individual numbered pegmatites, located on grid maps, by the field geology team. Mr. Willem Duyvesteyn, Chief Technology Officer of EMC, is the Qualified Person who is responsible for the design and conduct of the exploration program, and reviewed the program results.
Hogtuva Scandium Exploration Property:
The location of the Hogtuva exploration property is provided in Figure 5 below.
On September 1, 2011 EMC entered into an option agreement with REE pursuant to which EMC has an option to earn a 100% interest in the exploration rights to three scandium and beryllium exploration sites in Central Norway. To earn 100% of the exploration rights, EMC was required to pay REE a total of $150,000 over 18 months (including $50,000 paid on the agreement date) and up to 200,000 shares of EMC common stock. On January 16, 2013 we announced a renegotiated earn-in immediately accelerating our ownership of the Hogtuva exploration licenses to 100%. The renegotiated agreement canceled all outstanding cash payments ($150,000) and stock grants in return for a 1% net smelter return (“NSR”) on production proceeds from the property. The three exploration sites cover a total of approximately 80 square kilometers prospective for scandium, beryllium and other specialty metals.
FAIRFIELD SCANDIUM PROPERTY
On September 13, 2011 EMC Metals Corp. announced that it entered into an option agreement with Mineral Exploration Services LLC (“MES”) of Reno, Nevada, pursuant to which we acquired an option to earn a 100% interest in a patented mining claim and former scandium property, known as The Little Green Monster, near the town of Fairfield, Utah. The property represents a scandium phosphate exploration target and is the site of a historical small underground scandium mining operation. In addition to the MES option agreement, we staked an additional 42 claims in areas of interest surrounding the core property and site of historical activity. The Fairfield Scandium Property is classified as a United States property for purposes of financial statement segment information.
A limited scale exploration program completed during 2012 did not produce adequate results to support further exploration. As a result, we have cancelled the option agreement and allowed the mineral claims to terminate.
FOSTUNG TUNGSTEN PROPERTY
Pursuant to the terms of a purchase and sale agreement dated June 26, 2009, as amended on July 22, 2009 and September 14, 2009, between us and Breakwater Resources Ltd., in October of 2009, we issued 500,000 of our common shares to Breakwater as consideration for a 100% interest in the Fostung property located in Ontario, subject to a 1% Net Smelter Returns Royalty. The property was placed on care and maintenance in 2008.
In May of 2011, we completed the sale of all of our interest in the Fostung property to a wholly owned subsidiary of Janus Resources, Inc., a Nevada company, for CAD$500,000.
ITEM 3.