ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
Cautionary Note to U.S. Investors Regarding Resource Estimates
Certain terms used in this section are those used in accordance with the requirements of the securities laws in effect in Canada, which differ from the requirements of U.S. securities laws. Canadian requirements, including NI 43-101, differ significantly from the requirements of the SEC, and resource information contained herein may not be comparable to similar information disclosed by U.S. companies.
In particular, and without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the term “resource” does not equate to the term “reserves”. The requirements of NI 43-101 for identification of “reserves” are not the same as those of the SEC, and reserves reported in compliance with NI 43-101 may not qualify as “reserves” under SEC standards. Under U.S. standards, mineralization may not be classified as a “reserve” unless the determination has been made that the mineralization could be economically and legally produced or extracted at the time the reserve determination is made.
The SEC’s disclosure standards normally do not recognize information concerning “measured mineral resources”, “indicated mineral resources” or “inferred mineral resources” or other descriptions of the amount of mineralization in mineral deposits that do not constitute “reserves” by U.S. standards, in documents filed with the SEC. In addition, resources that are classified as “inferred mineral resources” have a great amount of uncertainty as to their existence and great uncertainty as to their economic and legal feasibility. It cannot be assumed that all or any part of an “inferred mineral resource” will ever be upgraded to a higher category. Under Canadian rules, estimated “inferred mineral resources” may not generally form the basis of feasibility or pre-feasibility studies. Investors are cautioned not to assume that all or any part of an “inferred mineral resource” exists or is economically or legally mineable.
Disclosure of “contained ounces” in a resource is permitted disclosure under Canadian regulations, however, the SEC normally only permits issuers to report mineralization that does not constitute “reserves” by SEC standards as in-place tonnage and grade without reference to unit measures.
Accordingly, information concerning mineral deposits set forth herein may not be comparable with information presented by companies using only U.S. standards in their public disclosure.
Description of Mineral Projects
Nyngan Scandium Project
Property Description and Location
The Nyngan scandium resource is located approximately 500 kilometers northwest of Sydney, Australia. The property consists of two exploration licenses, controlled by Jervois, which encompass over 9,000 hectares. Nyngan is classified as an Australia Property for purposes of financial statement segment information.
The scandium resource is hosted within the lateritic zone of the Gilgai Intrusion, one of several Alaskan-type mafic and ultramafic bodies which intrude Cambrian-Ordovician metasediments collectively called the Girilambone Group. The laterite zone, locally up to 40 meters thick, is layered with hematitic clay at the surface followed by limonitic clay, saprolitic clay, weathered bedrock and finally fresh bedrock. The scandium mineralization is concentrated within the hematitic, limonitic, and saprolitic zones with values up to 350 ppm scandium.
The location of the property is provided in Figure 2 below. The location of the exploration licenses that we may earn an interest in are provided in Figure 3 below.
Figure 2: Location of Nyngan Project
Figure 3: Location of the Exploration Licenses
Mineral Resource
In March of 2010 a NI 43-101 technical report which outlined a resources estimate on the Nyngan Scandium Project was completed. The report, titled, “NI 43-101 Technical Report on the Nyngan Gilgai Scandium Project, Jervois Mining Limited, Nyngan, New South Wales, Australia”, was prepared by or under the supervision of Max Rangott (BSc). The resource estimate is summarized in Table 2 below.
Table 2
Current Program - Overview
In February of 2010, the Company entered into a joint venture agreement (the “JV”) with Jervois Mining Limited (“Jervois”) of Melbourne, Australia to develop the Nyngan scandium property. The terms of the JV require EMC to earn in to a 50% position through a two stage work program.
the first stage required EMC to spend a minimum of A$500,000 on project exploration and metallurgical test work by mid December 2010, and
the second stage required the delivery of a feasibility study in the first quarter of 2012.
The stage I work timeframe were extended into 2011 and those first stage requirements were met during the second quarter of 2011. Second stage feasibility study work, was initiated in June 2011. To this end, we engaged SNC-Lavalin Inc. (Brisbane, Australia) to prepare a feasibility study for the partners on the economics of the project. To support process design, costing, and production level assumptions, the results of metallurgical test work done by Hazen Research Inc. together with previous test-work by the CSIRO and METCON Laboratories, were used directly by SNC-Lavalin Inc. in compiling their report.
On February 24, 2012, EMC delivered to Jervois the feasibility study for consideration of the earn-in requirement in our agreement as independently prepared by SNC-Lavalin.
No further technical work was accomplished during 2012 due to legal dispute proceedings with Jervois. Subsequent to our settlement of legal dispute with Jervois in February 2013, we are assessing near and mid-term technical work programs and project schedule. For further information on the legal dispute with Jervois, please refer to “Item 1.Business - Recent History - Nyngan Project
Metallurgy Development
The first work phase of the metallurgy development program consisted of detailed metallurgical bench scale testing, and was intended to refine and enhance the Company’s existing material process flow sheet to extract scandium from the resource material. This existing flow sheet, developed by Jervois and external consultants, formed the basis of a preliminary, conceptual engineering report for the processing elements of the project that was completed by Roberts & Schaefer of Salt Lake City, Utah.
The Roberts & Schaefer report included capital and operating cost estimates, based on process flow sheets and technical reports done for Jervois or EMC on various metallurgical aspects of the resource. These technical/process reports were done by METCON Laboratories of Sydney, Australia, the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Organization (CSIRO), Australia’s national science agency, or by other research work, proprietary to or sourced by Jervois or EMC. The bulk of the process applied by Roberts & Schaefer in their Report was defined by bench scale as well as small scale pilot plant work results compiled by others, and a preliminary flow sheet complied by the CSIRO. This work was carried forward into the later metallurgical test work conducted by Hazen Research and the design work utilized in the SNC feasibility study presented to management in 2012.
Note that mineral resources that are not mineral reserves do not have demonstrated economic viability. The above estimates of capital and operating costs are a component of a number of factors required to complete a preliminary assessment of the economic viability of the project, and there is no guarantee that the company will achieve production from the resource at Nyngan.
In January 2011, EMC announced results of initial lab test work, independently prepared by Hazen Research, Inc., of Golden, Colorado, USA. These results defined general results involving conventional contained acid leach systems and suggested recoveries from resource of up to 75%. No secondary recoveries were considered in these initial bench-scale tests.
The second phase of the Hazen test work program continued through July, and involved continuous pilot plant testing of the acid leach systems, solvent extraction systems and product finish systems identified by earlier CSIRO work. The overall objectives of the test work program were to define and optimize a process or series of processes that achieves an 80% scandium recovery, lowest possible capital and operating costs, and most benign environmental impact, using standard and accepted processes.
On January 19, 2012 we announced receipt an independent metallurgical test-work report, titled "Purification of Scandium Extracted from Laterite Ore", outlining the results of a number of pilot-scale tests on Nyngan resource material, and estimated recoveries and grades of scandium oxide product. The report was independently prepared by Hazen and is the final in a series of three phases of semi-continuous pilot plant scale test-work completed by Hazen during 2011. Work was finalized in late November.
Highlights of the 2011 Hazen semi-continuous pilot plant test-work are as follows:
Results of conventional contained sulfuric acid bake and water leach systems, at atmospheric pressure, demonstrated scandium recoveries averaging 75%,
Results of conventional solvent extraction ("SX") on the pregnant leach solution, demonstrated scandium recoveries exceeding 99%,
Results on final stage precipitation of scandium oxide, focused on highest combined purity and recovery, demonstrated scandium recoveries of 97.5%, at purity levels of 97.5% Sc2O3,
Overall recovery results were 70% to 80%, based on ore type (limonite or saprolite), and
All process assumptions were based on standard and accepted techniques for ore preparation, leaching, solvent extraction and final product preparation.
In February, 2011 EMC announced results of a series of laboratory-scale tests investigating the production of scandium-aluminum (“Sc-Al”) alloys directly from aluminum oxide and scandium oxide feed materials, prepared by the CSIRO. The overall objective of this research was to demonstrate and commercialize the production of Sc-Al master alloy using impure scandium oxide as the scandium source, potentially significantly improving the economics of scandium aluminum master alloy production.
Environmental Permitting Work
In April, 2011 EMC announced a general progress report on the project which outlined a series of environmental work steps designed to advance the Environmental Impact Study (“EIS”). Work steps included both ground and surface water assessments, along with other assessments of Aboriginal, ecology, traffic, noise and air quality matters.
All of this work has subsequently been completed, including 8 water bores with ongoing test monitoring equipment, and reports on the various other targeted assessments, without material issues in any area. An aerial photography and contour mapping program was also completed, to support the feasibility study work regarding location of site facilities.
On January 18, 2012 EMC announced that that key elements of environmental site work on the Nyngan Scandium Project have been completed and a Conceptual Project Development Plan (CPDP) submitted to the NSW, Australia state regulators. The CPDP submission forms the basis for an Environmental Impact Study ("EIS"), the foundation environmental document required for a mining permit in the state.
Specific EIS and property work, contained in the CPDP, completed by year end 2011:
Draft ground water assessment study finalized and submitted to regulators,
Surface water assessment results favorable, State review ongoing,
Aboriginal heritage study finalized, no areas of significance,
Soils study finalized, no issues, and
Property aerial photography and contour mapping completed, location of site facilities defined.
Continuing EIS work underway:
License applications (6), for access to groundwater as generated from property water bores have been submitted,
Flora and fauna studies are ongoing; to-date no significant issues have arisen, and
Traffic, noise and air quality baseline monitoring are ongoing.
The environmental work was performed under direction from R. W. Corkery & Co., (Orange, NSW, Australia), and formed part of the SNC-Lavalin Nyngan feasibility study.
Norway Scandium Property
During 2011 we entered into two option agreements with REE Mining AS of Norway, to obtain exploration rights to several properties in central and southern Norway. The Tørdal, Evje-Iveland and Hogtuva properties are classified as Norway Property for purposes of financial statement segment information.
Option agreements to acquire central Norway properties, Tørdal and Evje-Iveland were entered into in April 2011 and an option agreement for the Hogtuva property, located in southern Norway, was signed in September 2011. Both of these agreements were subsequently renegotiated to secure 100% ownership positions for EMC.
Tørdal and Evje-Iveland Properties, Norway
The location of the Tørdal exploration property is provided in Figure 4 below.
In April of 2011, we entered into an option agreement with REE Mining AS of Norway, pursuant to which we acquired the option to earn 100% of the outstanding common shares in the capital of a Norwegian limited liability company which holds the exploration rights to two pegmatite properties, known as the Tørdal property and the Evje-Iveland property. The properties are both prospective for a grouping of specialty metals, and rare earth elements, including scandium, yttrium, tantalum, beryllium, niobium, zirconium, titanium, lithium, nickel and tin.
Terms of the REE Option Agreement provided for a two stage earn-in option including cash payments totalling $650,000, work commitments totalling $250,000, and an EMC share grant of 1 million EMC shares, with payments due in October 2012 and June 2013.
On January 16, 2013 we announced a renegotiated earn-in immediately accelerating our ownership of the Tørdal exploration licenses to 100%. The renegotiated agreement canceled all outstanding cash payments ($500,000), and all remaining work commitments, in return for payment of certain property costs and other costs totalling $65,000 in December/January 2013, the 1 million EMC share grant, and a 1% net smelter return (“NSR”) on production proceeds from the property. As part of the amended agreement, EMC relinquished all rights to the Evje-Iveland property, which were returned to REE Mining.
2012 Tørdal Field Exploration
On February 14, 2013 we announced promising results from field exploration work on the Tørdal property during the summer and fall months of 2012, focussed on scandium-bearing pegmatites. The 2012 work included independent assay results of pegmatite rock samples taken from one specific property area, and also includes an extensive pegmatite mapping program covering approximately 30 sq km. The assay results indicated the presence of high levels of scandium and various rare earth elements (REE’s), including heavy rare earth elements (HREE’s) in particular. Field XRF readings indicated elevated scandium content in hundreds of large and small pegmatite bodies found and mapped in the reconnaissance area.
Highlights of the results of the 2012 field exploration are as follows:
Tørdal 2012 assays of pegmatite rocks show presence of both scandium and REE’s,
Best scandium assays exceed 1,600 ppm,
Promising HREE assay results from pegmatites with gadolinite mineralization,
Host rock mineralization points to higher grade scandium or HREE contents,
2012 summer exploration program mapped and sampled over 300 pegmatites,
A total of 1,940 Niton XRF scandium readings were taken on whole rock samples, and
Overall program results at Tørdal are very encouraging and warrant expanded exploration.
Assay Results of Grab Samples at Tørdal
The 2011 summer exploration program on the Tørdal property consisted of reconnaissance, surface soil sampling, and limited pegmatite mapping work in a relatively small area north of the village of Kleppe, in Southern Norway.
As a follow-on from that 2011 program, the company then returned to the same area and conducted a series of ‘blasts’, using small explosive charges to generate whole rock samples on select exposed pegmatites, at the locations of the best soil sample results. The exploration team planned 9 blasts and conducted 8, on 5 different pegmatite bodies, from which they assembled 23 grab samples for analysis and assay by OMAC Laboratories in Ireland. Assay results on these samples were received in Q1 2012-in time to help formulate the 2012 summer/autumn season pegmatite mapping program, conducted on a much wider area.
Independent assay results on 20 of the 23 samples, covering all 5 targeted pegmatites, are shown below.
Assay results are as-reported elemental assay results from OMAC Laboratories, and are not converted to oxide equivalent (REO & Sc2O3). Heavy rare earth elements abbreviated “HREE”; and include Yttrium;Total rare earth elements abbreviated “TREE”.
The numbered assay samples were formed either by random selection of fresh (un-weathered) whole rock material broken loose from individual pegmatite bodies, or alternatively, based on selectively collecting fresh rock material that was clearly (1) garnet-laden, (2) mica-laden, or showed clear visible (3) gadolinite mineralization. Gadolinite is a beryllium and rare earth-bearing mineral with the chemical formula [(Ce,La,Nd,Y)2FeBe2Si2O10]. The intent was to determine from assay results if certain visible mineralization correlated to the presence and concentrations of target elements; specifically scandium, rare earth elements (REE’s), or other metals of interest and value.
The results in the assay table indicate that all of the selected pegmatites contain interesting levels of both REE’s and scandium. In general, all of the pegmatites contained both target elements, while the mica phase appears to hold the higher scandium concentrations with small REE additions, and the gadolinite phase holds the highest REE concentrations and small scandium additions. The presence of garnet material in samples tended to generate interesting but moderate values for both REE’s and scandium. Assay work was designed to identify 30 specific elements, including all 16 REE elements plus scandium, and the relative concentration of heavy REE’s was of particular interest. The mica and garnet grab sample materials had generally only trace levels of thorium and uranium (average <15 ppm), while the gadolinite grab sample materials had thorium levels between 2,500-5,000 ppm, and uranium levels
between 500-1,300 ppm. A full table of OMAC assay results related to these 23 sample analyses is available on EMC’s website at www.emcmetals.com.
Reconnaissance Results - Extended Pegmatite Mapping Program at Tørdal
Following on from the 2011 work and the 2012 assay results, EMC conducted an expanded 2012 summer work reconnaissance program at both Tørdal and Evje-Iveland, from July through October. The goals of the 2012 program were to develop detailed mapping of outcropping pegmatite fields over a much broader area than the 2011 program, while also conducting field sampling of scandium mineralization on those pegmatites using a hand-held Niton XRF Analyzer.
The 2012 program concentrated on five separate areas (approximately 30 sq km) as can be seen in the map below:
A total of 1,940 Niton XRF readings were logged on whole rock and pegmatite mineral separates, logged against individually mapped and numbered pegmatite bodies. The XRF readings ranged up to +6,000 ppm scandium (on a mineral separate), and averaged 661 ppm on 1,504 total logged readings above the instrument’s 20 ppm detection limit. XRF readings focussed on scandium data collection only, although the team diligently noted the visible presence of gadolinite and amazonite mineralization.
The reader is cautioned that hand-held Niton XRF readings are not the same as laboratory assays, and are not NI 43-101 compliant with regard to estimating resource grades. However, the Company is confident that these data readings are highly useful in confirming and shaping the next stage of the exploration program on this property.
A summary of results by area is as follows:
Area 1 (Kleppe); Mapped more than 50 pegmatite bodies. Best average XRF Sc readings from 1,000-1,500 ppm, some very large surface expressions. Gadolinite present.
Area 2 (Heftetjern); Partially mapped more than 40 pegmatite bodies, many large surface expressions, green amazonite mineralization. Better XRF Sc readings from 500-1,500 ppm.
Area 3 (Solli); Mapped numerous large and small pegmatites. Generally lower XRF Sc readings, ranging 300-700 ppm. Red feldspars, quartz and gadolinite mineralization present.
Area 4 (South Kleppsvatn); Partially mapped large area containing more than 80 pegmatites, generally mica-based. Typical XRF Sc readings in the 300-900 ppm range, with some reaching 1,500 ppm Sc.
Area 5 (Buvatn); Partially mapped, numerous pegmatite bodies, some very large. Typical XRF Sc readings in the 300-1,000 ppm range. Old feldspar quarries, amonizite mineralization present.
Similar work done at Evje-Iveland (total 180 sq km) identified several interesting target areas, but scandium readings were not sufficiently attractive when compared to results at Tørdal. These observations led to the decision to drop Evje-Iveland, as part of an amended agreement which also enabled EMC to achieve an immediate 100% earn-in on Tørdal.
The exploration results of the 2012 work program also allowed EMC to selectively reduce property holdings at Tørdal in January 2013. The property has been reduced from 140 sq km to 90 sq km, with lower ongoing exploration license holding costs as a result.
Next Steps in Norway Exploration Program
EMC’s mapping and sampling work has confirmed that much of the Tørdal property is heavily populated with complex, near-surface pegmatite bodies. Based on hand-held XRF readings and mineralogy, these pegmatites show excellent promise for significant scandium enrichment, particularly within bodies containing micas, and for REE mineralization where the rare earth silicate gadolinite is present. Based on the results of 2012 exploration work, planning for future exploration work is underway.
Qualified Person and Quality Assurance/Quality Control
Sampling methods followed industry quality control standards. Mr. Kjell Nilsen, an independent geologist consultant currently employed by EMC, conducted the reconnaissance and sampling on the property. Individual whole rock grab samples were collected by hand shovel, from areas where blasted material could be seen to have come from blast points on pegmatite bodies. The assayed samples were individually bagged, sealed, logged on the grid map as to location, boxed in a container suitable for mailing, and sent by express mail to OMAC Laboratories Limited in Galway, Ireland for testing. Assay testing on the samples utilized an ICP-MS spectrometer (Inductively Coupled Plasma-Mass Spectrometry) to test for numerous elements, specifically scandium. The numerous Niton XRF (X-ray Fluorescence) readings were taken at field locations, logged and identified with individual numbered pegmatites, located on grid maps, by the field geology team. Mr. Willem Duyvesteyn, Chief Technology Officer of EMC, is the Qualified Person who is responsible for the design and conduct of the exploration program, and reviewed the program results.
Hogtuva Scandium Exploration Property:
The location of the Hogtuva exploration property is provided in Figure 5 below.
On September 1, 2011 EMC entered into an option agreement with REE pursuant to which EMC has an option to earn a 100% interest in the exploration rights to three scandium and beryllium exploration sites in Central Norway. To earn 100% of the exploration rights, EMC was required to pay REE a total of $150,000 over 18 months (including $50,000 paid on the agreement date) and up to 200,000 shares of EMC common stock. On January 16, 2013 we announced a renegotiated earn-in immediately accelerating our ownership of the Hogtuva exploration licenses to 100%. The renegotiated agreement canceled all outstanding cash payments ($150,000) and stock grants in return for a 1% net smelter return (“NSR”) on production proceeds from the property. The three exploration sites cover a total of approximately 80 square kilometers prospective for scandium, beryllium and other specialty metals.
In December 2013, EMC made the decision to drop the Hogtuva property, based on holding costs and the low likelihood of advancing the exploration program on this property. Holding costs with the Norwegian minerals department were not met in January 2014. The Company can recover this property for a period in 2014, but currently has no plan to do so.
ITEM 3.