ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
Cautionary Note to U.S. Investors Regarding Resource Estimates
Certain terms used in this section are those used in accordance with the requirements of the securities laws in effect in Canada, which differ from the requirements of U.S. securities laws. Canadian requirements, including NI 43-101, differ significantly from the requirements of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”), and resource information contained herein may not be comparable to similar information disclosed by U.S. companies.
In particular, and without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the term “resource” does not equate to the term “reserves”. The requirements of NI 43-101 for identification of “reserves” are not the same as those of the SEC, and reserves reported in compliance with NI 43-101 may not qualify as “reserves” under SEC standards. Under U.S. standards, mineralization may not be classified as a “reserve” unless the determination has been made that the mineralization could be economically and legally produced or extracted at the time the reserve determination is made.
The SEC’s disclosure standards normally do not recognize information concerning “measured mineral resources”, “indicated mineral resources” or “inferred mineral resources” or other descriptions of the amount of mineralization in mineral deposits that do not constitute “reserves” by U.S. standards, in documents filed with the SEC. In addition, resources that are classified as “inferred mineral resources” have a great amount of uncertainty as to their existence and great uncertainty as to their economic and legal feasibility. It cannot be assumed that all or any part of an “inferred mineral resource” will ever be upgraded to a higher category. Under Canadian rules, estimated “inferred mineral resources” may not generally form the basis of feasibility or pre-feasibility studies. Investors are cautioned not to assume that all or any part of an “inferred mineral resource” exists or is economically or legally mineable.
Disclosure of “contained ounces” in a resource is permitted disclosure under Canadian regulations, however, the SEC normally only permits issuers to report mineralization that does not constitute “reserves” by SEC standards as in-place tonnage and grade without reference to unit measures.
Accordingly, information concerning mineral deposits set forth herein may not be comparable with information presented by companies using only U.S. standards in their public disclosure.
Description of Mineral Projects
Nyngan Scandium Project
Property Description and Location
The Nyngan Scandium Project site is located approximately 450 kilometres northwest of Sydney, NSW, Australia and approximately 20 kilometres due west from the town of Nyngan, a rural town of approximately 2,900 people. The deposit is located 5 kilometres south of Miandetta, off the Barrier Highway that connects the town of Nyngan to the town of Cobar. The license area can be reached via the paved Barrier Highway, which allows year-round access, but final access to the site itself is reached by clay farm tracks. The general area can be characterized as flat countryside and is classified as agricultural land, used predominantly for wheat farming and livestock grazing. Infrastructure in the area is good, with available water and electric power in close proximity to the property boundaries.
The Nyngan property is classified as an Australia Property for purposes of financial statement segment information.
The scandium resource is hosted within the lateritic zone of the Gilgai Intrusion, one of several Alaskan-type mafic and ultramafic bodies which intrude Cambrian-Ordovician metasediments collectively called the Girilambone Group. The laterite zone, locally up to 40 meters thick, is layered with hematitic clay at the surface followed by limonitic clay, saprolitic clay, weathered bedrock and finally fresh bedrock. The scandium mineralization is concentrated within the hematitic, limonitic, and saprolitic zones with values up to 350 ppm scandium.
The general location of the Nyngan Scandium Project is provided in Figure 1 below. The specific location of the exploration licenses that we may earn an interest in are provided in Figure 2 below.
Mineral License Details
The scandium resource is held under Exploration License (EL) 8316 (Block Number 3132, units d, e, j, k and Block no. 3133, unit f) and EL 6096 (Block 3132, unit p, and Block 3133, units l, m, r and s); a total of ten (10) graticular units. The exploration licenses allow the license holder to conduct exploration on private land (with landowner consents and signed compensation agreements in place) and public lands not including wildlife reserves, heritage areas or National Parks. The scandium resource is fully enclosed on private agricultural land.
The Company’s Australian subsidiary holds legal title to both the surface and mineral exploration rights on the Nyngan Scandium Project.
Following the award of Mining Lease 1763 (ML 1763) an additional EL (EL 8448) was granted so as to provide better security at the project. Figure 2 provides details of the location of EL 8448 and the location of Mining Lease 1763, which overlays the exploration license area.
The exploration licenses cover 29.25 square kilometers (2,925 hectares). The resource site is located at geographic coordinates MGA zone 55, GDA 94, Lat: - 31.5987, Long: 146.9827, Map Sheets 1:250k - Cobar (SH/55-14) and 1:100k Hermidale (8234).
The project surface rights (freehold) total 810 acres (370 hectares) on a portion of the exploration license area. The freehold property boundaries are defined by standard land survey techniques undertaken by the Lands Department and currently presented in the form of Cadastral Deposited Plans (DP) and Lots. The land associated with the project rights is DP 752879, Lots 6 and 7 (Appendix 2, Lots 6 and 7 - Nyngan).
The Company is required to lodge individual A$10,000 environmental bonds with the NSW Mines Department for each license, and must meet total minimum work requirements annually of approximately A$65,000, covering both licenses.
Royalties attached to the properties include a 1.5% Net Profits Interest royalty to private parties involved with the early exploration on the property, a 1.7% Net Smelter Returns Royalty payable to Jervois for 12 years after production commences, subject to terms in the settlement agreement, and a 0.7% royalty on gross mineral sales to a private investor. Another revenue royalty is payable to private interests of 0.2%, subject to a US$370k cap. A NSW minerals royalty will also be levied on the project, subject to negotiation, currently 4% on revenue.
Metallurgy Development
The Company has invested in and developed methodology for extracting scandium from the Nyngan property resource since 2010. A portion of the work done over this period has been superseded by work that followed, but subsequent test programs universally benefitted from prior efforts. In summary, the programs have been as follows:
2010 - The Company inherited work done on Nyngan from the previous property owner, and applied that work to a quick flowsheet and capital estimate done for management by Roberts & Schaefer of Salt Lake City, Utah;
2011 - The Company employed Hazen Research, Inc., of Golden, Colorado, USA (“Hazen”) to test acid baking techniques and solvent extraction (“SX”) processes with Nyngan resource material. The Company also employed SGS-Lakefield (Ontario) to test pressure acid leach techniques on Nyngan resource, as a replacement for or an enhancement to acid bake techniques done earlier in the year by Hazen;
2012 - The Company engaged SNC-Lavalin to do an economic study for management, utilizing an acid bake flowsheet and SX work from the Hazen test program;
2014 - The Company published a preliminary economic assessment (“PEA”) entitled NI 43- 101F1 Technical Report on the Feasibility of the Nyngan Scandium Project, authored by Larpro Pty Ltd, utilizing both Hazen and SGS-Lakefield test work results; and
2015 - The Company amended and refiled the 2014 PEA Report as the “Amended Technical Report and Preliminary Economic Analysis on the Nyngan Scandium Project, NSW, Australia”.
2016 - The Company published an independently prepared definitive feasibility study on the Nyngan Scandium Project. The technical report on the feasibility study entitled “Feasibility Study - Nyngan Scandium Project, Bogan Shire, NSW, Australia” was independently compiled pursuant to the requirements of NI 43-101 and incorporated the results of current and previous test work.
Nyngan Feasibility Study
On April 18, 2016, the Company announced the results of an independent definitive feasibility study on the Nyngan Scandium Project. The technical report on the feasibility study entitled “Feasibility Study - Nyngan Scandium Project, Bogan Shire, NSW, Australia” is dated May 4, 2016 and was independently compiled pursuant to the requirements of NI 43-101 (the “Feasibility Study” or “DFS”). The report was filed on May 6, 2016 and is available on SEDAR (www.sedar.com) and on the Company’s website (www.scandiummining.com) and the SEC’s website (www.sec.gov). A full discussion on the technical report was provided in the Company’s Form 10Q for the quarterly period ending March 31, 2016, as filed with the SEC and on SEDAR on May 13, 2016.
The Feasibility Study concluded that the Nyngan Scandium Project has the potential to produce an average of 37,690 kilograms of scandium oxide (scandia) per year, at grades of 98.0% -99.8%, generating an after-tax cumulative cash flow over a 20 year project life of US$629 million, with an NPV10% of US$177 million. The average process plant feed grade over the 20 year project life is 409ppm of scandium.
The Feasibility Study has been developed and compiled to an accuracy level of +15%/-5%, by a globally recognized engineering firm that has considerable expertise in laterite deposits and process facilities, as well as in smaller mining and processing projects, and has excellent familiarity with the Nyngan Scandium Project location and environment.
Nyngan Scandium Project Highlights
Capital cost estimate for the project is US$87.1 million,
Annual scandium oxide product volume averages 37,690 kg, over 20 years,
Annual revenue of US$75.4 million (oxide price assumption of US$2,000/kg),
Operating cost estimate for the project is US$557/kg scandium oxide,
Project Constant Dollar NPV10% is US$177 million, (NPV8% is US$225 million),
Project Constant Dollar IRR is 33.1%,
Oxide product grades of 98-99.8%, as based on customer requirements,
Project resource increases by 40% to 16.9 million tonnes, grading 235ppm Sc, at a 100ppm cut- off in the measured and indicated categories, and
Project Reserve totalling 1.43 million tonnes, grading 409ppm Sc was established on part of the resource.
DFS Conclusions and Recommendations
The production assumptions in the Feasibility Study are backed by solid independent flow sheet test work on the planned process for scandium recovery. The Feasibility Study consolidates a significant amount of metallurgical test work and prior study on the Nyngan Scandium Project, including important test work results completed since the PEA was generated in 2014. The entire body of work demonstrates a viable, conventional process flow sheet utilizing a continuous-system HPAL leaching process, and good metallurgical recoveries of scandium from the resource. The metallurgical assumptions are supported by various bench and pilot scale independent test work programs that are consistent with known outcomes in other laterite resources. A number of the key elements of this flowsheet work have been protected by the Company under US Patent Applications. The continuous autoclave configuration, as opposed to batch systems explored in previous flow sheets, is also a more conventional and current design choice.
The level of accuracy established in the Feasibility Study substantially reduces the uncertainty levels inherent in earlier studies, specifically the PEA. The greater confidence intervals around the Feasibility Study were achieved by reliance on significant project engineering work, a capital and operating cost estimate supported by detailed requirements and vendor pricing, plus one offtake agreement and an independent marketing assessment, both supportive of the marketing assumptions on the business.
The Feasibility Study delivered a positive result on the Nyngan Scandium Project, and recommends the Nyngan Scandium Project owners seek finance and proceed to construction. Recommendations were made therein for additional immediate work, notably to win additional offtake agreements with customers, complete some optimizing flow sheet studies, and to initiate as early as possible detailed engineering required on certain long-lead capital items.
Confirmatory Metallurgical Test Results
On June 29, 2016 we announced the results of a confirmatory metallurgical test work report from Altrius Engineering Services (AES) of Brisbane, Australia. The test work results directly relate to the list of recommended programs included in the Feasibility Study. AES devised and supervised these test work programs at the SGS laboratory in Perth, Australia and at the Nagrom laboratory in Brisbane, Australia.
The project DFS recommended a number of process flowsheet test work programs be investigated prior to commencing detailed engineering and construction. Those study areas included pressure leach (“HPAL”), counter-current decant circuits (“CCD”), solvent extraction (“SX”), and oxalate precipitation, with specific work steps suggested in each area. This latest test work program addresses all of these recommended areas, and the results confirm recoveries and efficiencies that either meet or exceed the parameters used in the DFS. Highlights of the testing are:
Pressure leach test work achieved 88% recoveries, from larger volume tests,
Settling characteristics of leach discharge slurry show substantial improvement,
Residue neutralization work meets or exceeds all environmental requirements as presented in the DFS and the environmental impact statement,
Solvent extraction circuit optimization tests generated improved performance, exceeding 99% recovery in single pass systems, and
Product finish circuits produced 99.8% scandium oxide, completing the recovery process from Nyngan ore to finished scandia product.
Engineering, Procurement and Construction Management Contract
On May 30, 2017, the Company announced that its subsidiary EMC Australia signed an Engineering, Procurement and Construction Management ("EPCM") contract with Lycopodium Minerals Pty Ltd ("Lycopodium"), to build the Nyngan Scandium Project in New South Wales, Australia. The EPCM contract also provides for start-up and commissioning services.
The EPCM contract ("the EPCM Contract") appoints Lycopodium (Brisbane, QLD, Australia) to manage all aspects of project construction. Lycopodium is the principal engineering firm involved with the DFS. Lycopodium's continued involvement in project construction and commissioning ensures valuable technical and management continuity for the project during the construction and start-up of the project.
The EPCM Contract consists of two phases: Phase I is pre-notice to proceed (“NTP”), and Phase II is full-NTP. Phase I is a cost-reimbursable period that allows SCY full access to Lycopodium's services and the EPCM team for specific tasks and advance work on long-lead items. Phase II will be initiated with a formal NTP, fully at SCY's discretion, with project funding in place, and will activate the Contract and services as agreed in the scope of work.
Post-NTP, the EPCM Contract is cost-reimbursable for labor and other costs, and specifies fixed price components for labor rates, corporate overhead and profit margins ("Fee"), and firm scope (hours) for all EPCM services. A portion (50%) of the Fee is adjustable, based on measured performance on four specified parameters: overall project capital cost performance, schedule performance, safety performance and the overall assessment of Lycopodium's performance by Scandium International. There is also a provision in the EPCM Contract to establish a Fee incentive for Lycopodium based on the ramp-up of the project's production levels, post completion.
Lycopodium has been awarded the majority of the services in this EPCM Contract scope, including project management, engineering design and management, procurement services, contracting services, construction management and commissioning. SCY has specified that Knight Piesold Consulting (Brisbane, QLD, Australia) will perform water, earthworks, and tailings systems engineering and design. Knight Piesold were the engineers on these components of the DFS as well.
On October 19, 2017, we announced that Lycopodium has been instructed to initiate critical path engineering for the Nyngan Scandium Project. Lycopodium commenced work on select critical path components for the project, including design and specification engineering on the high-pressure autoclave unit, associated flash and splash vessels and several specialized high-pressure input pumps. The engineering work was completed during 2018 and will enable final supplier selection, firm component pricing and delivery dates for these key process components.
Environmental Permitting/Development Consent/Mining Lease
On May 2, 2016, the Company announced the filing of an Environmental Impact Statement (“EIS”) with the New South Wales, Australia, Department of Planning and Environment, (the “Department”) in support of the planned development of the Nyngan Scandium Project. The EIS was prepared by R.W. Corkery & Co. Pty. Limited, on behalf of the Company’s 80% owned subsidiary, EMC Australia, to support an application for Development Consent for the Nyngan Scandium Project. The EIS is a complete document, including a Specialist Consultants Study Compendium, and was submitted to the Department on Friday, April 29, 2016.
EIS Highlights:
The EIS finds residual environmental impacts represent negligible risk.
The proposed development design achieves sustainable environmental outcomes.
The EIS finds net-positive social and economic outcomes for the community.
Nine independent environmental consulting groups conducted analysis over five years, and contributed report findings to the EIS.
The Nyngan project development is estimated to contribute A$12.4M to the local and regional economies, and A$39M to the State and Federal economies, annually
The EIS is fully aligned with the DFS and with a NSW Mining License Application for the Nyngan project.
Conclusion statement in the EIS:
“In light of the conclusions included throughout this Environmental Impact Statement, it is assessed that the Proposal could be constructed and operated in a manner that would satisfy all relevant statutory goals and criteria, environmental objectives and reasonable community expectations.”
EIS Discussion:
The EIS is the foundation document submitted by a developer intending to build a mine facility in Australia. The Nyngan Scandium Project is considered a State Significant Project, in that capital cost exceeds A$30million, which means State agencies are designated to manage the investigation and approval process for granting a Development Consent, from the Minister of Planning and Environment. This Department will manage the review of the Proposal through a number of State and local governmental agencies.
The EIS is a self-contained set of documents used to seek a Development Consent. It is however, supported in many ways by the recently completed DFS.
On November 10, 2016, the Company announced that the Development Consent had been granted. This Development Consent represents an approval to develop the Nyngan Scandium Project and is based on the EIS. The Development Consent follows an in-depth review of the EIS, the project plan, community impact studies, public EIS exhibition and commentary, and economic viability, and involved more than 12 specialized governmental agencies and groups.
During May 2017, EMC Australia received notice of approval for its Mining Lease application. The Mining Lease (“ML”) overlays select areas previously covered by two Exploration Licenses. The ML represents the final major development approval required from the NSW Government to begin construction on the project. The final signed ML Grant was received in October 2017, issued for a period of 21 years, and based on the development plans and intent submitted in the ML Application. The ML can be modified by NSW regulatory agencies, as requested by EMC Australia over time, to reflect changing operating conditions.
In addition to these two key governmental approvals, other required licenses and permits must be acquired but are considered routine and require only compliance with fixed standards and objective measurements. These remaining approvals include submittal of numerous plans and reports supporting compliance with Development Consent and Mining Lease. In addition, the following water, roads, dam and electrical access reviews and arrangements must be finalized:
Water Supply Works and Use Approval and Water Access License,
State and local approval for construction of the intersection of the Site Access Road and Gilgai Road,
An approval from the NSW Dams Safety Committee for the design and construction of the Residue Storage Facility, and
A high voltage connection agreement with Essential Energy.
On January 2, 2019, the Company announced receipt of notification that the New South Wales Department of Planning and Environment is reviewing the granting of Mine Lease 1763 related to the Nyngan Scandium Project. The Company does not expect the outcome of this review to affect its ability to bring the Nyngan Scandium Project into production.
This current formal Department review is in response to an objection by a landowner who holds freehold surface ownership over a portion of the total 874 hectare mine lease area. The landowner objection claims the property is “Agricultural Land”, with meaning as defined in the relevant law.
The landowner filed a formal objection with the Department in mid-2016. That formal objection notice was improperly handled, and was only physically located and verified as compliant in mid-2018. The landowner made the Department aware of the existence of an unrecorded objection in mid-2017, and the Company was subsequently advised that the objection was investigated by the Department directly with the landowner prior to final award of the signed ML grant in late 2017.
The NSW Department of Planning and Environment has recently sought and received independent consultant input that the landowner objection should qualify as “Agricultural Land”, as defined in the relevant law. The Company has rights of comment on that finding, which have been exercised, in a formal comment package delivered to the Department on February 1, 2019. With receipt and consideration of comment documents from the parties, and further Department input, the Department Secretary will make a new determination on the validity of the affected portion of the ML.
If the Department Secretary’s decision upholds the landowner objection, the Company believes that outcome will not delay or prevent the development of the Nyngan Scandium Project., as is generally characterized in the 2016 feasibility study.
Patent Application Filings
On February 17, 2015, the Company announced the filing of patent applications with the US Patent Office related to novel flowsheet designs for the recovery of scandium from laterite resource material. These filings have been supplemented by additional patent applications and the Company has now filed a total of eight additional applications in this area. All of these patents are directly applicable to our Nyngan Scandium Project, and future project expansions.
To date three patent applications have been granted:
(i)
May 2018 - USP 9,982,325 - “Systems and Methodologies for Direct Acid Leaching of Scandium-bearing Ores”,
(ii)
May 2018 -USP 9,982,326 - “Solvent Extraction of Scandium from Leach Solutions” and,
(iii)
January 2019 - (# not yet assigned) - “Method and Recovery of Scandium Values from Leach Solutions”.
Patent Applications Discussion:
These patent applications cover novel, unique flowsheet designs, applicable to scandium extraction, from scandiferous laterite resources;
The patented designs are largely supported by test work done with Nyngan Scandium Project resource material and known design parameters;
The patents cover HPAL system material flows, solvent extraction (SX), ion exchange systems (“IX”), atmospheric tank and heap leaching systems and techniques, and processes for directly making select master alloys containing scandium; and
Most of the designs are incorporated as part of the DFS.
These patent applications, filed with the US Patent Office, protect the Company’s position and rights to the intellectual property (IP) contained and identified in the applications as of the date filed, within the worldwide jurisdiction limits of the US patent system. Review by the US Patent Office takes further time, but the dates of filing these patents define the basis of IP ownership claims, as is generally afforded U.S. patent-holders.
The Company intends to utilize the IP contained in these process patents in the development of process flowsheets for recovery of scandium from its Nyngan Scandium Project, as well as its Honeybugle project.
The Company believes that patent protection of these specific, novel process designs will be granted. Many of the basic design elements contemplated in the Nyngan Scandium Project flowsheet are commonly applied to other specialty metals, particularly nickel. However, the application of these basic design elements has not been commonly applied to scandium extraction from laterite resources, and there are enough intended and required operational differences in the application to permit the Company to patent-protect IP on those differences.
These patent claims are the result of several years of metallurgical test work with independent resource laboratories and specific design work by Willem Duyvesteyn, the Company’s Chief Technology Officer, using Nyngan property resource material. This work is ongoing. Patent protection on flowsheet intellectual property will serve to limit or prevent the unauthorized use of that IP by others without the Company’s consent. We believe these filings are an important action to protect the ownership of a Company asset, on behalf of all SCY shareholders.
Downstream Scandium Products
In February 2011 we announced results of a series of laboratory-scale tests investigating the production of aluminum-scandium master alloys directly from aluminum oxide and scandium oxide feed materials, prepared by the CSIRO. The overall objective of this research was to demonstrate and commercialize the production of aluminum-scandium master alloy using impure scandium oxide as the scandium source, potentially significantly improving the economics of aluminum-scandium master alloy production. In 2014, the Company announced it applied for a US Patent on master alloy production, which is still in the application phase. That patent application addressed scandium master alloys with both aluminum-base and magnesium-base metals.
During the 2015-2017 timeframe, we continued our own internal laboratory-scale investigations into the production of aluminum-scandium master alloys, furthering our understanding of commercial processes, and achievable recoveries. We advanced our abilities to make a standard-grade 2% scandium master alloy product typical of commercially available products offered today.
On March 2, 2017, we announced the signing of a Memorandum of Understanding ("MOU") with Weston Aluminium Pty Ltd. ("Weston") of Chatswood, NSW, Australia. The MOU defines a cooperative commercial alliance to jointly develop the capability to manufacture aluminum-scandium master alloy. The intended outcome of this alliance will be to develop the capability to offer Nyngan Scandium Project aluminum alloy customers scandium in form of Al-Sc master alloy, should customers prefer that product form.
The MOU outlines steps to jointly establish the manufacturing parameters, metallurgical processes, and capital requirements to convert Nyngan Scandium Project scandium product into Master Alloy, on Weston's existing production site in NSW. The MOU does not include a binding contract with commercial terms at this stage, although the intent is to pursue the necessary technical elements to arrive at a commercial contract for conversion of scandium oxide to master alloy, and to do so prior to first mine production from the Nyngan Scandium Project.
On March 5, 2018 the Company announced that it has initiated a pilot scale program at the ALCERECO Inc. metallurgical research facilities in Kingston, Ontario, to confirm and refine previous work on the manufacture of aluminum-scandium 2% master alloy (MA). The pilot scale program is intended to confirm the previous bench-scale test work, and to provide necessary process understanding for commercial scale upgrade of Nyngan scandium oxide product to master alloy product.
The pilot program consisted of 5 separate trials on two MA product types, production of MA in various forms, and dross analysis to ascertain scandium recoveries to product. The total mass of master alloy and product variants produced in the program totalled approximately 20kg. The pilot program, as defined for 2018, was completed in December of 2018. Additional pilot scale work to pursue further refinements and specific process optimization has been planned for Q1/Q2 of 2019.
On March 5, 2018 the Company also announced that it has filed for patent protection on certain process refinements for master alloy manufacture that it believes are novel methods, and also on certain product variants that it believes represent novel forms of introducing scandium more directly into aluminum alloys.
Focus on Aluminum Alloy Applications for Scandium Products
The Company is in the process of obtaining sales agreements for scandium products produced from our Nyngan Scandium Project. Our focus is on the use of scandium as an alloying ingredient in aluminum-based products. The specific scandium product forms we intend to sell from the Nyngan project include both scandium oxide (Sc2O3) and aluminum-scandium master alloys (Al-Sc 2%).
Scandium as an alloying agent in aluminum allows for aluminum metal products that are much stronger, more easily weldable and exhibit improved performance at higher temperatures than current aluminum-based materials. This means lighter structures, lower manufacturing costs and improved performance in areas that aluminum alloys do not currently compete.
Aluminum Alloy Research Partner - Alcereco
In 2015, the Company entered into a memorandum of understanding (“MOU”) with ALCERECO Inc. of Kingston, Ontario (“ALCERECO”), forming a strategic alliance to develop markets and applications for aluminum alloys containing scandium. To further that alliance, and to reinforce the capability of both companies to deliver product developed for scandium aluminum alloy markets, Scandium International and ALCERECO also signed an offtake agreement governing sales terms of scandium oxide product (scandia) produced from the Nyngan Scandium Project. The offtake agreement specifies prices, delivery volumes and timeframes for commencement of delivery of scandium oxide product. The offtake agreement does not provide for a mandatory annual minimum purchase volume of scandium oxide by ALCERECO, and there is no requirement for payment in lieu of purchase.
The MOU represented keen mutual interest in foundry-based test work on aluminum alloys containing scandium, based on understandings that ALCERECO’s team had gained from prior work with Alcan Aluminum, and based on SCY’s twin goals of understanding and identifying quality applications for scandium, and also understanding the scandium value proposition with customers.
During December 2017, the Company revised and renewed the scandium product offtake agreement with ALCERECO. The revised agreement extends the deadline for initial production and shipments from the Nyngan Scandium Project from December 1, 2017, to as late as December 1, 2020. The defined sale product was changed to an aluminum scandium 2% master alloy from scandium oxide in the prior agreement. The revised sales agreement covers approximately the same scandium oxide volume as the prior agreement, representing 55% of Nyngan’s initial twelve month forecast production, and approximately 20% of nameplate capacity, as established by the Definitive Feasibility Study. The revised offtake agreement does not provide for a mandatory annual minimum purchase volume of scandium oxide by ALCERECO, and there is no requirement for payment in lieu of purchase.
The Company has sponsored research work as contemplated by the MOU with ALCERECO, and with other unrelated entities in separate locations. This work develops and documents the improvement in strength characteristics scandium can deliver to aluminum alloys without degrading other key properties. The team has run multiple alloy mix programs where scandium loading is varied, in order to look at response to scandium additions on a cost/benefit basis. This work has been done in the context of industries and applications where these particular alloys are popular today.
These programs are focused on 1000 series, 3000 Series, 5000 Series and 7000 Series Al-Sc alloys, and have served to make independent data and volume samples available for sales efforts.
The results of our research work is positive, and consistent with the body of published literature available today on aluminum scandium alloys. We are observing noteworthy strengthening effects with scandium additions at and above 0.1%, and dramatic strengthening improvements with additions of 0.35%, while preserving or enhancing other alloy properties and characteristics. We have also demonstrated that altering the combinations of scandium loads and alloy hardening process techniques has significant effect on the final alloy properties, offering the opportunity to tune alloy characteristics to suit specific applications. These findings are considered commercially sensitive, and the data is not intended for public disclosure at this time, although the findings and data are being shared with select potential customers under specific non-disclosure agreement protections, as is deemed relevant to their specific areas of commercial interest,
Letters of Intent with Potential Customers
During 2018, the Company announced signing letter of intent (“LOI”) agreements with eight unrelated partnering entities. In each LOI, we have agreed to contribute scandium samples, either in form of scandium master alloy product, or aluminum-scandium alloy product, for trial testing by the partners in their downstream manufacturing applications. Each of the parties to the LOI agreements have agreed to report the parameters and general results of the testing program utilizing these scandium-containing alloys, upon completion of testing. All samples committed by the Company for 2018 delivery, through this LOI program, have been delivered and received, and all but one of the recipients has initiated testing and reporting activity. The one remaining recipient has test work planned for Q1 2019. The Company plans to continue this LOI program of introducing scandium for trial testing by partners through agreements with more potential customers in 2019.
These formal LOI agreements, with distinct industry segment leaders, represent a key marketing program demonstrating precisely how scandium will perform in specific products, and in production-specific environments. Potential scandium customers insist on these sample testing opportunities, directly in their research facilities or on their shop floor, to ensure their full understanding of the impacts, benefits, and costing implications of introducing scandium into their traditional aluminum feedstocks.
The partnering entities in these LOI agreements are set out below:
Austal Ltd. (“Austal”), headquartered in Henderson, Western Australia, (Australia). Austel is a public corporation, listed on the Australian Stock Exchange (ASB.ASX), with shipbuilding facilities in Perth, Australia, Mobile, Alabama (USA), Vung Tau, Vietnam and Balamban, Cebu (Philippines). The company maintains a focus on research and development of emerging maritime technologies and cutting-edge ship designs, and is today a recognized world leader in the design and construction of large aluminum commercial and defense vessels.
Impression Technologies Ltd. ("ITL"), based in Coventry, UK. ITL is a privately held technology company, developing and licensing its advanced aluminum forming technology, Hot Form Quench ("HFQ®"), to automotive, aerospace, rail and electronics industries, globally. ITL manufactures custom parts for customers with its patented HFQ technology, which enables the single-pass forming of complex, lightweight, high-strength aluminum parts that can't otherwise be similarly formed today.
PAB Coventry Ltd. (“PAB”), based in Coventry, UK. PAB is a privately held manufacturing and prototyping company offering specialty metal parts and design capabilities, serving the automotive, aerospace, defense and HVAC industries. PAB has been a well-known parts and forms supplier to the upper market segment of the British automotive industry for decades.
Eck Industries Inc. ("Eck"), based in Manitowoc, Wisconsin, USA. Eck is a privately held manufacturer of precision sand cast parts, and engineering services. Eck Industries operates a 210,000 sq. ft. facility with over 250 employees, and 110 customers. Customer segments include commercial aircraft parts, automotive and trucking cast parts, military drivetrain casings, marine propulsion system castings, and military aerospace components.
Grainger & Worrall Ltd. ("GW"), based in Shropshire, UK. GW is a privately held manufacturer of precision sand cast parts, and engineering services. GW is a well-recognized precision air-set sand cast parts manufacturer in the UK, specializing in low to intermediate volume cast parts for commercial automotive, motorsports/racing, defense, marine, and aerospace applications.
Gränges AB (“Gränges”), based in Stockholm, Sweden. Gränges is a public company, traded on the NASDAQ Stockholm Stock Exchange (GRNG:OMX), and a large global player in the rolled aluminum products business, with production assets in Europe, USA, and China, and a worldwide customer base, majority concentrated in the USA. Gränges is focused on advanced aluminum materials, and holds a leading global position in rolled products for brazed heat exchangers, which it estimates at 20%.
Ohm & Häner Metallwerk GmbH & Co. GK (“O&H”), based in Olpe, Germany. O&H is a privately held manufacturer of sand cast and gravity die cast parts, using metal alloys, servicing a significant, global customer base. O&H produces over 3,000 individual cast parts, and currently works with over 40 different alloys, primarily aluminum and copper-based alloys.
AML Technologies ("AML"), an Adelaide, Australia based start-up company with proprietary technology for applying aluminium alloys to additive layer manufacturing processes, also commonly referred to as 3D printing.
These LOI agreements are part of a developing strategy by the Company to engage with innovative, research-capable partners, willing to test scandium in their applications. The Company also has similar agreements with other research capable partners who do not wish to be publicly named at this time. We are selecting and approaching these specific partners because we have an understanding, from our commissioned alloy mixing programs, that scandium additions can make valuable contributions to their specific products, and we have the alloy samples to enable an expedient uptake on that validation. The scandium market for aluminum alloys needs to be built, and that construction should be seen as underway in the most direct sense. The Company plans to conduct further application-specific programs, in pursuit of sales contracts with quality customers across numerous industry segments, predominantly existing aluminum alloy consumers.
Nyngan Scandium Project - Planned Activities for 2019-2020
The following steps are planned for Nyngan during the 2019 and 2020 Calendar years:
Complete master alloy pilot trials and optimization work in Q1/Q2 2019
Pursue additional offtake agreements in support of planned future scandium sales,
Seek project construction financing for the Nyngan Scandium Project in 2019,
Commence site construction in the latter half of 2019, with anticipated construction completion over 14 months, and
Initiate project commissioning in late 2020, with product available for sale by the start of 2021.
Honeybugle Scandium Property
On April 2, 2014 the Company announced that it had secured a 100% interest in an exploration license (EL 7977) covering 34.7 square kilometers in New South Wales (NSW), Australia referred to as the Honeybugle Scandium property. The license area is located approximately 24 kilometers west-southwest from SCY’s Nyngan Scandium Project. The license area covers part of the Honeybugle geologic complex, and will carry that name in our future references to the property. The ground was released by the prior holder, and SCY intends to explore the property for scandium and other metals.
The Company currently does not consider the Honeybugle Scandium property to be a material property at this time. No resources or reserves are known to exist on the property. The property is classified as an Australian property for purposes of financial statement segment information.
The location of the Honeybugle Scandium property is provided below.
Honeybugle Drill Results
On May 7, 2014 the Company announced completion of an initial program of 30 air core (AC) drill holes on the property, specifically at the Seaford anomaly, targeting scandium (Sc). Results on 13 of these holes are shown in detail in the table below. These holes suggest the potential for scandium mineralization on the property similar to our Nyngan Scandium Project.
Highlights of initial drilling program results are as follows:
The highest 3-meter intercept graded 572 ppm scandium (hole EHAC 11);
EHAC 11 also generated two additional high grade scandium intercepts, grading 510 ppm and 415 ppm, each over 3 meters;
The program identified a 13-hole cluster which was of particular interest;
Intercepts on these 13 holes averaged 270 ppm scandium over a total 273 meters at an average continuous thickness of 21 meters per hole, representing a total of 57% (354 meters) of total initial program drilling;
The 13 holes produced 29 individual (3-meter) intercepts over 300 ppm, representing 31% of the mineralized intercepts in the 273 meters of interest; and
This initial 30-hole AC exploratory drill program generated a total of 620 meters of scandium drill/assay results, over approximately 1 square kilometer on the property.
The detail results of 13 holes in the initial drill program are as follows:
Table 7. Results of 13-Hole Initial Drill Program
Seaford is characterized by extensive outcrops of dry, iron-rich laterites, allowing for a particularly shallow drill program. Thirty (30) air core (AC) holes on nominal 100-meter spacing were planned, over an area of approximately 1 square kilometer. Four holes were halted in under 10 meters depth, based on thin laterite beds, low scandium grades, and shallow bedrock.
The 13 holes highlighted in the table are grouped together on either side of Coffills Lane, and represent all of the drill locations where meaningful intercept thickness generated scandium grades exceeding 175 ppm. Some of these 13 holes showed significant scandium values on the immediate surface, and alternately, other holes exhibited favorable scandium grades that began at shallow depth. The highest grade Sc sample was found in a 21-24 meter interval (572 ppm), although several holes produced better than 350 ppm Sc intercepts at depths of under 9 meters. The deepest hole (EHAC 7) was drilled to 57 meters, showing good scandium grades over a 12-meter horizon (245 ppm) near the bottom of the hole, from 39 to 51 meters depth. Higher scandium grades were associated with higher iron levels. Holes were drilled to a depth where they contacted the fresh ultramafic bedrock, which generally signaled the end of any scandium enrichment zones.
The drill plan divided Seaford into four sub-areas, 1-4, as highlighted Figure 5, below. Area 1 was relatively higher ground and therefore the least impacted by ground moisture. Consequently, this dryer area received the greatest attention, although that had been the general intention in the plan. Area 1 received 17 holes, with 13 presented in detail in the table above. Areas 2-4 were each intended as step-out areas that need to be further examined in the next program. The three step-out areas did not generate results of particular note, although hole locations were not optimal due to ground conditions and access.
Area 2 received 3 holes, 60 meters total, and generated Sc grades from 45-75 ppm,
Area 3 received 4 holes, 87 meters total, and generated Sc grades from 47-122 ppm,
Area 4 received 5 holes, 72 meters total, and generated Sc grades from 60-101 ppm, and
The average depth of all of these holes was 18 meters, with the deepest 30 meters.
Figure 5. Initial Drill Program Map
This 13-hole cluster (Area 1) was noted to be in a relatively thick laterite zone which was constrained to the west by contact with meta-sediments, to the east by fresh ultramafic bedrock, and to some extent in the north by a poor intersection result in hole 30. Area 1 remains somewhat open to the south, with the two southern-most holes (EHAC 9 and EHAC 29) generating some of the best scandium grade intercepts in the area.
The surface and near surface mineralization at this property is an advantage, both in locating areas of interest for future exploration work, and also because of extremely low overburden ratios. This particular characteristic for the Honeybugle Scandium property is different to our Nyngan Scandium Project, where mineralization is typically covered by 10-20 meters of barren alluvium.
Further drilling at Seaford is warranted, based on the results of this introductory and modest program, specifically to the north and south of the existing area 1 drill pattern, along with investigation and select drilling at the other three remaining anomalies on the property.
During 2018 we performed site work at the Honeybugle Scandium property to meet the annual expenditure commitment to maintain the exploration license. Work performed during 2018 does not change the previous conclusions, as described above.
Qualified Person and Quality Assurance/Quality Control
John Thompson, B.E. (Mining); Vice President - Development at SCY is a qualified person as defined in NI 43-101 and has reviewed the technical information on this property. The drilling, sampling, packaging and transport of the drill samples was carried out to industry standards for QA/QC. SCY employed an independent local geology consulting and drill supervisory team, Rangott Mineral Exploration Pty. Ltd., (RME) of Orange, NSW, Australia, to manage the drill work on-site. Bulk samples of drill returns were collected at one metre intervals from a cyclone mounted on the drilling rig, and a separate three-tier riffle splitter was used on site to obtain 2.0 -4.5kg composite samples collected over 3 metre intervals, for assay. Individual sample identifiers were cross-checked during the process. The assay samples were placed in sealed polyweave bags which remained in RME’s possession until the completion of the drilling program, at which time they were transported to RME’s office in Orange. There, the sequence of sample numbers was validated, and the assay samples were immediately submitted to Australian Laboratory Services’ (ALS’) laboratory in Orange. The remnant bulk samples, which were collected in sealed polythene bags, were transported by RME to a local storage unit at Miandetta, for long-term storage.
ALS/Orange dried and weighed the samples, and pulverized the entire sample to 85% passing 75 microns or better (technique PUL-21). These 50g sample bags of pulps were then sent to the ALS laboratory at Stafford in Brisbane, Queensland for analysis. ALS/Brisbane analyzed the pulps for scandium, nickel, cobalt, chromium, iron and magnesium, using Inductively Coupled Plasma Atomic Emission Spectroscopy (ICP-AES) after a four acid (total) digestion (technique ME-ICP61). The lower detection limit for scandium using this technique is 1ppm. For their internal quality control, ALS/Brisbane added 4 standard samples (for 20 repeat analyses), 10 blank samples and 16 duplicate samples to the batch. Please see news release see news release dated May 7, 2014 and available on www.sedar.com for further information on the Honeybugle drill results.
Kiviniemi Scandium Property (Eastern Finland Province, Finland)
On September 25, 2017 the Company announced that its wholly-owned subsidiary company, Scandium International Mining Corp., Norway AS, was granted a reservation on an Exploration License for the Kiviniemi Scandium property in central Finland from the Finnish regulatory body governing mineral exploration and mining in Finland. The exploration license was subsequently granted during August 2018. We are in the process of moving all our exploration rights to SCY Exploration Finland Oy, a wholly owned Finnish subsidiary.
The Geological Survey of Finland (“GTK”) conducted airborne survey work on the area in 1986, conducted exploration drilling on the property in 2008-2010, and published those program results on their public GTK website in 2016.
The Company does not consider the Kiviniemi Scandium property to be a material property at this time. No NI 43-101 resources or reserves are known to exist on the property. The property is classified as the Finland property for purposes of financial statement segment information.
Highlights
Kiviniemi property previously identified for scandium and explored by GTK,
Property is a high iron content, medium grade scandium target, located on surface, with on-site upgrade potential,
Early resource upgrade work done for GTK promising, confirmed by SCY,
Property is all-weather accessible, close to infrastructure, and
Finland location is mining-friendly and ideally suited to EU customer markets.
Property/Location
The Kiviniemi property is located in the municipality of Rautalampi, Eastern Finland Province, approximately 350km northeast of Helsinki, by road. The closest major city/airport is Kuopio (pop. 110,000), approximately 70km to the northeast of the property. The exploration target is located on a small portion of a family farm, partially cleared for farming. Most of the property is wooded, including the area where the mineralization has been located,
Mineral Reservation
The Company applied for a reservation on the property in early 2017, which was granted in June 2017, after the public comment period ended. The reserved exploration area is approximately 24.6 hectares (0.25 square kilometer), identical to the historic GTK exploration license on the property, which expired in 2015. The mineralized area, as defined on GTK resource modeling maps, is approximately 25% of the total reservation. This reservation granted us a first position right to apply for an exploration license on the property (protected through 2018). The Company filed the exploration application in January 2018, and was granted the exploration license during August 2018. We are in the process of moving all our exploration rights to SCY Exploration Finland Oy, a wholly owned Finnish subsidiary. The exploration license requires us to report our exploration activities annually to Finland government agencies and to demonstrate in the annual reports that exploration work has been effective and systematic.
Prior Exploration Work
GTK performed magnetic surveys on the general area in 1986, focused on copper/nickel/cobalt targets, and based on current mining activity in the area. That initial field work located a significant magnetic anomaly on the Kiviniemi property. In 2008, GTK initiated an exploration drilling program on the property, completing 4 diamond core holes in that first program phase, followed by a further 5 diamond holes in 2010, totaling 1,250 meters, at an average (angled) length of 139 meters, and a maximum vertical extension of 167 meters. The drill spacing varied from 50-200 meters, using a diamond drill size of 46mm (T56).
Four of the nine total holes drilled (approx. 850 meters) are in the mineralized area, with the remainder defining portions of the mag zone that did not contain scandium. The mag zone is generally very high in iron, ranging from about 20% to 35% Fe. The GTK published the results of the drill program assays, and other information on the geology and mineralization, on their website in 2016.
Geology of Resource Target
The host rock is very iron-rich, garnet-bearing fayalite ferro(monzo) diorite. The main minerals in the deposit include: plagioclase, potassium feldspar, ferrohedenbergite (clinopyroxene), ferrohastingsite (amphibole), almandine garnet and fayalite. The principal scandium carrier minerals are ferrohastingsite (59 %) and ferrohedenbergite (40 %).
Resource Modeling
GTK completed and published a paper outlining property work including a 3D modeling and resource estimation on the project, in March 2016. The authors employed data from 6 holes, and used an industry standard GEOVIA Surpac software to produce a geological 3D domain model, and inverse distance was run to estimate resource grades into the block model. The authors declined to specifically characterize the resource on the basis of limited holes and uneven spacing, describing their estimate as an “exploration potential measurement”. The authors estimated that another 500-700 meters of drilling (5-7 holes) would establish 50 meter centers on the target and allow a resource classification. The mineralized target remains open at depth. The authors did provide a table of results on tonnage estimates from their modeling work, at various cut off values, excerpts of which are presented below.
The Company believes the standards and controls employed by GTK are reliable and consistent with proper industry practice. However, the potential quantity and grade is conceptual in nature and there has been insufficient exploration to define a mineral resource and it is uncertain whether further exploration will result in a mineral resource. The Company considers the above estimates as historical in nature, and such estimates do not use the categories prescribed by NI 43-101. A qualified person (as defined in NI 43-101) has not done sufficient work to classify the historical estimate as a current mineral resource. The Company is not treating the historical estimate as a current mineral resource.
Metallurgical Upgrade Work
In 2010, GTK engaged their metallurgical research laboratory (at Outokumpu) to conduct standard upgrade testing on the drill core sample material, specifically magnetic gravity separations. The mag separation work suggested a scandium upgrade to approximately 346ppm, based on a resource material head grade of 160-200ppm, and a 72% scandium recovery.
In June 2017, SCY engaged FLSmidth (Salt Lake City, Utah) seeking to duplicate the earlier 2010 upgrade work and confirm the earlier results. The earlier results were generally confirmed, in that the 2017 work achieved magnetic separation upgrade assays of 286ppm on a resource material head grade of 186ppm. We supplied FLSmidth with approximately 16kg of resource material sourced from GTK, all samples from a single hole (P433-R3). FLSmidth also carried out scandium check assays on the individual drill hole samples provided by GTK, with good grade correlation to GTK data.
Kiviniemi Summary
The Kiviniemi property represents a medium grade scandium resource target that has remained unrecognized and overlooked by exploration work, largely due to the absence of the more commonly sought-after minerals in the region, specifically copper, nickel and cobalt. We believe that Kiviniemi is Europe’s largest underdeveloped primary scandium resource.
The target has benefited significantly from valuable early exploration work by the GTK, which has advanced the property to a stage where successful metallurgical investigations may prove value that offsets grade concerns. SCY estimates roughly US$2M of work value has been directed at this property to date, including field work, drilling programs, assay work, overheads, and metallurgical upgrade studies, but firm numbers are not available.
We plan a limited drill program to augment the existing GTK data, and provide more sample material for metallurgical test work programs to define economic site upgrade possibilities on the scandium mineralization observed to date.
ITEM 3.