ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
Cautionary Note to U.S. Investors Regarding Resource Estimates
Certain terms used in this section are those used in accordance with the requirements of the securities laws in effect in Canada, which differ from the requirements of U.S. securities laws. Canadian requirements, including NI 43-101, differ significantly from the requirements of the SEC, and resource information contained herein may not be comparable to similar information disclosed by U.S. companies.
In particular, and without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the term “resource” does not equate to the term “reserves”. The requirements of NI 43-101 for identification of “reserves” are not the same as those of the SEC, and reserves reported in compliance with NI 43-101 may not qualify as “reserves” under SEC standards. Under U.S. standards, mineralization may not be classified as a “reserve” unless the determination has been made that the mineralization could be economically and legally produced or extracted at the time the reserve determination is made. We have not established reserves on any of our properties.
The SEC’s disclosure standards normally do not recognize information concerning “measured mineral resources”, “indicated mineral resources” or “inferred mineral resources” or other descriptions of the amount of mineralization in mineral deposits that do not constitute “reserves” by U.S. standards, in documents filed with the SEC. In addition, resources that are classified as “inferred mineral resources” have a great amount of uncertainty as to their existence and great uncertainty as to their economic and legal feasibility. It cannot be assumed that all or any part of an “inferred mineral resource” will ever be upgraded to a higher category. Under Canadian rules, estimated “inferred mineral resources” may not generally form the basis of feasibility or pre-feasibility studies. Investors are cautioned not to assume that all or any part of an “inferred mineral resource” exists or is economically or legally mineable.
Disclosure of “contained ounces” in a resource is permitted disclosure under Canadian regulations, however, the SEC normally only permits issuers to report mineralization that does not constitute “reserves” by SEC standards as in-place tonnage and grade without reference to unit measures.
Accordingly, information concerning mineral deposits set forth herein may not be comparable with information presented by companies using only U.S. standards in their public disclosure.
Description of Mineral Projects
Nyngan Scandium Project
Property Description and Location
The Nyngan Scandium Project site is located approximately 450 kilometres northwest of Sydney, NSW, Australia and approximately 20 kilometres due west from the town of Nyngan, a rural town of approximately 2900 people. The deposit is located 5 kilometres south of Miandetta, off the Barrier Highway that connects the town of Nyngan to the town of Cobar. The license area can be reached via the paved Barrier Highway, which allows year-round access, but final access to the site itself is reached by clay farm tracks. The general area can be characterized as flat countryside and is classified as agricultural land, used predominantly for wheat farming and livestock grazing. Infrastructure in the area is good, with available water and electric power in close proximity to the property boundaries.
The Nyngan property is classified as an Australia Property for purposes of financial statement segment information.
The scandium resource is hosted within the lateritic zone of the Gilgai Intrusion, one of several Alaskan-type mafic and ultramafic bodies which intrude Cambrian-Ordovician metasediments collectively called the Girilambone Group. The laterite zone, locally up to 40 meters thick, is layered with hematitic clay at the surface followed by limonitic clay, saprolitic clay, weathered bedrock and finally fresh bedrock. The scandium mineralization is concentrated within the hematitic, limonitic, and saprolitic zones with values up to 350 ppm scandium.
The general location of the Nyngan Scandium Project is provided in Figure 1 below. The specific location of the exploration licenses that we may earn an interest in are provided in Figure 2 below.
Mineral License Details
The scandium resource is held under Exploration License (EL) 8316 (Block Number 3132, units d, e, j, k and Block no. 3133, unit f) and EL 6096 (Block 3132, unit p, and Block 3133, units l, m, r and s); a total of ten (10) graticular units. The exploration licenses allow the license holder to conduct exploration on private land (with landowner consents and signed compensation agreements in place) and public lands not including wildlife reserves, heritage areas or National Parks. The scandium resource is fully enclosed on private agricultural land.
The Company’s Australian subsidiary holds legal title to both the surface and mineral exploration rights on the Nyngan Scandium Project.
The exploration licenses cover 29.25 square kilometers (2,925 hectares). The resource site is located at geographic coordinates MGA zone 55, GDA 94, Lat: - 31.5987, Long: 146.9827, Map Sheets 1:250k - Cobar (SH/55-14) and 1:100k Hermidale (8234).
The project surface rights (freehold) total 810 acres (370 hectares) on a portion of the exploration license area. The freehold property boundaries are defined by standard land survey techniques undertaken by the Lands Department and currently presented in the form of Cadastral Deposited Plans (DP) and Lots. The land associated with the project rights is DP 752879, Lots 6 and 7 (Appendix 2, Lots 6 and 7 - Nyngan).
The Company is required to lodge individual A$10,000 environmental bonds with the NSW Mines Department for each license, and must meet total minimum work requirements annually of approximately A$65,000, covering both licenses. Annual property costs to the local Shire Council are under A$1,000 per year.
Royalties attached to the properties include a 1.5% Net Profits Interest royalty to private parties involved with the early exploration on the property, a 1.7% Net Smelter Returns Royalty payable to Jervois for 12 years after production commences, subject to terms in the settlement agreement, and a 0.7% royalty on gross mineral sales to a private investor. Another revenue royalty is payable to private interests of 0.2%, subject to a US$370k cap. A NSW minerals royalty will also be levied on the project, subject to negotiation, currently 4% on revenue.
Metallurgy Development
The Company has invested in and developed methodology for extracting scandium from the Nyngan property resource since 2010. A portion of the work done over this period has been superseded by work that followed, but subsequent test programs universally benefitted from prior efforts. In summary, the programs have been as follows:
•
2010 - The Company inherited work done on Nyngan from Jervois, and applied that work to a quick flowsheet and capital estimate done for management by Roberts & Schaefer of Salt Lake City, Utah;
•
2011 - The Company employed Hazen Research, Inc., of Golden, Colorado, USA (“Hazen”) to test acid baking techniques and solvent extraction (“SX”) processes with Nyngan resource material. The Company also employed SGS-Lakefield (Ontario) to test pressure acid leach techniques on Nyngan resource, as a replacement for or an enhancement to acid bake techniques done earlier in the year by Hazen;
•
2012 - The Company engaged SNC-Lavalin to do an economic study for management, utilizing an acid bake flowsheet and SX work from the Hazen test program;
•
2014 - The Company published a preliminary economic assessment (“PEA”) entitled NI 43- 101F1 Technical Report on the Feasibility of the Nyngan Scandium Project, authored by Larpro Pty Ltd, utilizing both Hazen and SGS-Lakefield testwork results; and
•
2015 - The Company amended and refiled the 2014 PEA Report as the “Amended Technical Report and Preliminary Economic Analysis on the Nyngan Scandium Project, NSW, Australia”.
Development Program Review
The first work phase of the metallurgy development program consisted of detailed metallurgical bench scale testing, and was intended to refine and enhance the Company’s existing material process flow sheet to extract scandium from the resource material. This existing flow sheet, developed by Jervois and external consultants, formed the basis of a preliminary, conceptual engineering report for the processing elements of the project that was completed by Roberts & Schaefer specifically for use by SCY management.
The Roberts & Schaefer report included capital and operating cost estimates, based on process flow sheets and technical reports previously done for Jervois or SCY on various metallurgical aspects of the resource.
These technical/process reports included work done by METCON, the CSIRO, and by others, proprietary to or sourced by Jervois or SCY. The bulk of the process applied by Roberts & Schaefer in their Report was defined by bench scale as well as small scale pilot plant work results compiled by others, and a preliminary flow sheet complied by the CSIRO.
This early stage Roberts & Schaefer Report was carried forward into the later metallurgical test work subsequently conducted by Hazen and the design work utilized in the SNC- Lavalin economic study presented to management in 2012.
In January 2011, SCY announced results of initial lab test work, independently prepared by Hazen. These results defined general results involving conventional contained acid leach systems and suggested recoveries from resource of up to 75%. No secondary recoveries were considered in these initial bench-scale tests.
The second phase of the Hazen test work program continued through July, and involved continuous pilot plant testing of the acid leach systems, solvent extraction systems and product finish systems identified by earlier CSIRO work. The overall objectives of the test work program were to define and optimize a process or series of processes that achieves an 80% scandium recovery, lowest possible capital and operating costs, and most benign environmental impact, using standard and accepted processes.
On January 19, 2012 we announced receipt an independent metallurgical test-work report, titled “Purification of Scandium Extracted from Laterite Ore”, outlining the results of a number of pilot-scale tests on Nyngan resource material, and estimated recoveries and grades of scandium oxide product. The report was independently prepared by Hazen and is the final in a series of three phases of semi-continuous pilot plant scale test-work completed by Hazen during 2011. Work was finalized in late November.
Highlights of the 2011 Hazen semi-continuous pilot plant test-work are as follows:
•
Results of conventional contained sulfuric acid bake and water leach systems, at atmospheric pressure, demonstrated scandium recoveries averaging 75%;
•
Results of conventional SX on the pregnant leach solution, demonstrated scandium recoveries exceeding 99%;
•
Results on final stage precipitation of scandium oxide (Sc O ), focused on highest combined purity and recovery, demonstrated scandium recoveries of 97.5%, at purity levels of 97.5% Sc O . Higher purity levels were achieved at lower recoveries;
•
Overall recovery results were 70% to 80%, based on ore type (limonite or saprolite); and
•
All process assumptions were based on standard and accepted techniques for ore preparation, leaching, solvent extraction and final product preparation.
In late 2011, the Company commissioned test work on high pressure acid leach (“HPAL”) processes, with both Hazen and SGS-Lakefield of Ontario, Canada. The initial HPAL work was applied to residue from the acid bake process sourced from the earlier Hazen test work, specifically to determine if additional scandium could be effectively recovered in a second pass with a pressure system. Those results were encouraging, and led to later test work in 2012-13 which applied HPAL techniques directly on the laterite resource material. No HPAL research results were included in the report and findings compiled for management by SNC-Lavalin in early 2012. However, the work that subsequently continued on HPAL, after that SNC Report was completed, has been incorporated into current engineering studies and flow sheet strategies for the Nyngan project. Existing HPAL work results were done to bench scale, and not to pilot scale, and are currently being followed up with further test work.
The Company is continuing test work on metallurgy to increase recoveries and final product grades.
In February, 2011 we announced results of a series of laboratory-scale tests investigating the production of aluminum-scandium alloys directly from aluminum oxide and scandium oxide feed materials, prepared by the CSIRO. The overall objective of this research was to demonstrate and commercialize the production of aluminum-scandium master alloy using impure scandium oxide as the scandium source, potentially significantly improving the economics of aluminum-scandium master alloy production.
Environmental Permitting Work
In April, 2011 SCY announced a general progress report on the project which outlined a series of environmental work steps designed to advance an Environmental Impact Study (“EIS”), the foundation environmental document required for a mining permit in the state. Work steps included both ground and surface water assessments, along with other assessments of Aboriginal, ecology, traffic, noise and air quality matters.
All of this work has subsequently been completed, including 8 water bores with ongoing test monitoring equipment, and reports on the various other targeted assessments, without material issues in any area. An aerial photography and contour mapping program was also completed, to support the feasibility study work regarding location of site facilities.
On January 18, 2012 SCY announced that that key elements of environmental site work on the Nyngan Scandium Project have been completed and a Conceptual Project Development Plan (“CPDP”) submitted to the NSW, Australia state regulators. The CPDP submission forms the basis for an EIS.
Specific EIS and property work, contained in the CPDP, completed by year end 2011 are as follows:
• Draft ground water assessment study finalized and submitted to regulators;
• Surface water assessment results favorable, State review ongoing;
• Aboriginal heritage study finalized, no areas of significance;
• Soils study finalized, no issues; and
• Property aerial photography and contour mapping completed, location of site facilities defined.
Continuing EIS work underway are as follows:
• License applications (6), for access to groundwater as generated from property water bores have been submitted;
• Flora and fauna studies are ongoing; to date no significant issues have arisen; and
• Traffic, noise and air quality baseline monitoring are ongoing.
The environmental work was performed under direction from R. W. Corkery & Co., (Orange, NSW, Australia), and formed part of the SNC-Lavalin Nyngan economic study.
Nyngan Preliminary Economic Assessment
On October 14, 2014, the Company announced completion of a report on a Preliminary Economic Assessment of the Nyngan project entitled, “NI 43-101F1 Technical Report on the Feasibility of the Nyngan Scandium Project”. As a result of a disclosure review by the British Columbia Securities Commission, an amended technical report (the “PEA”) titled “Amended Technical Report and Preliminary Economic Analysis on the Nyngan Scandium Project, NSW, Australia” was completed on May 20, 2015. The effective date of the report, as amended, is October 10, 2014.
The PEA was prepared by the engineering firm of Larpro Pty Ltd, of Brisbane, Australia, and supported by Mining One of Melbourne, Australia and Rangott Mineral Exploration Pty Ltd of Orange, Australia, and confirms the technical and economic potential of the Nyngan Scandium Project. The PEA has been independently prepared as a technical report on the form prescribed under NI 43-101 and is available for public review on the Company’s website at www.scandiummining.com
The PEA is preliminary in nature and should not be considered to be a pre-feasibility or feasibility study, as the economics and technical viability of the Project have not been demonstrated at this time. While this PEA does not consider or include any inferred mineral resources, and does include only measured and indicated resources, it remains a preliminary analysis that is not sufficient to enable resources to be categorized as mineral reserves. Furthermore, there is no certainty that the PEA will be realized.
We advise U.S. investors that while the terms “measured resources,” “indicated resources” and “inferred resources” are recognized and required by Canadian regulations, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission does not recognize these terms. U.S. investors are cautioned not to assume that any part or all of the material in these categories will be converted into reserves. It should not be assumed that any part of an inferred mineral resource will ever be upgraded to a higher category.
The PEA concludes that the Nyngan Scandium Project has the potential to produce 35,975 kilograms of scandium oxide (scandia) per annum, at grades of 97%-99%, generating an after-tax cumulative cash flow over a 20 year Nyngan Scandium Project life of $565 million, with an NPV10% of $175 million. The PEA also concludes the project can achieve this financial result with a conventional flow sheet, employing HPAL and solvent extraction (“SX”) techniques, which have been modeled and validated from METSIM modeling and bench scale/pilot scale metallurgical test work. Note that mineral resources that are not mineral reserves do not have demonstrated economic viability.
PEA Financial Highlights and Key Assumptions
The PEA concludes that the Nyngan Scandium Project has the potential for positive economics, based on a capital estimate supported by conventional process designs. The overall PEA level of accuracy is +/-30%. The PEA is expressed in US dollars (US$), unless otherwise noted. A foreign exchange rate of US$0.90 (1A$=US$0.90) to one Australian dollar (A$) was applied in all conversions. No escalation for inflation was assumed in cash flows. All cash flows and discounted cash flows (NPVs and IRRs) in this PEA are shown on an after tax basis, based on a 30% tax rate.
Highlights and key assumptions are as follows:
Table 1. Nyngan PEA Financial Highlights (October 10, 2014)
The above estimates of capital and operating costs are a component of a number of factors required to complete a preliminary assessment of the economic viability of the project, and there isno guarantee that the company will achieve production from the resource at Nyngan. There are currently no established reserves on the Nyngan Scandium Project.
PEA Mineral Resource Estimate
In March of 2010, a NI 43-101 technical report which outlined a resource estimate on the Nyngan Scandium Project was completed. The report, titled, “NI 43-101 Technical Report on the Nyngan Gilgai Scandium Project, Jervois Mining Limited, Nyngan, New South Wales, Australia”, was prepared by or under the supervision of Max Rangott (BSc). The PEA does not alter the existing Nyngan Scandium Project resource estimate, established in the 2010 technical report. The NI 43-101 measured and indicated scandium resource totals 12 million tonnes at an average grade of 261ppm scandium, from both limonite and saprolite resource material. The cut-off value of 100ppm used in the initial 2010 resource was reviewed as part of the PEA. While the input assumptions to the formula calculations are different from those assumed in 2010, the overall cut-off assumption for the combined limonite and saprolite resource generated by the formula was still considered reason nable, and has s not changed.
The PEA assumes that a portion of limonite-only resource, in one particular area of the overall resource, will provide a 20 year mining pit sufficient to supply the processing facility at a rate of 75,000 tpy and an average grade of 371ppm scandium. A 20 year mining pit design was developed from drill hole data in support of this assumption and included in the PEA.
The current Nyngan Scandium Project scandium mineral resource as calculated in the 2010 report by Rangott and accepted in the 2015 PEA, is as follows:
Table 2. Nyngan Scandium Resource (Effective Date February 9, 2010) (1)
(1) Mineral resources that are not mineral resources do not have demonstrated economic viability.
Note that the terms measured and indicated resources are not terms recognized in the United States under SEC rules and guidelines. See “Note to U.S. Investors Regarding Resource Estimates” above under “ITEM 2 - PROPERTIES”.
The cut-off level used to define the resource was established using a standard formula that considered scandium pricing, estimated costs of mining and processing, and overall recovery rates, as they pertained to markets and process understanding at the time. Processing methodology assumed acid leaching and solvent extraction systems, and mining assumed a shallow, surface mining operation consistent with drill results on the resource. Additional information on cut-off value assumptions, including pricing assumptions, is provided in the PEA, available on the Company’s website.
PEA Mining and Processing Assumptions
Mining represents a relatively minor part of the overall project activity, based on a plant feed of 240tpd or 75,000 tonnes per year requirement. Mine production is based on conventional open pit methods, strip ratios of 1.5:1 to 3:1 (overburden/resource), contract mining assumptions and mining activity in campaigns of one month, three times per year, avoiding the wet season. The plant will run continuously, fed from field and plant stockpiles of mined resource, and covered against moisture and weather.
The processing plant operations will size the input material, apply HPAL using sulfuric acid, and then recover the liberated scandium using SX, oxalate precipitation and calcination, to generate a finished scandium oxide product. The output of the plant is forecast at 35,975 kilograms of scandium per year, at grades between 97% and 99%, as Sc2O3. Product output will be refined to suitable grade for direct sales to end users, recognizing that grade varies based on application.
Plant tailings will be neutralized with lime to pH 8.5, dewatered, and stored in a permanent tailings facility which is subject to the environmental requirements of mining permits and NSW State regulators.
PEA Capital Cost Assumptions
Total capital costs for the Nyngan Scandium are estimated at $77.4M, which includes a 20% contingency. The majority (70%) of the capital cost in the PEA was Australian-sourced, and consequently, initially priced in Australian dollars, supported by direct vendor capital pricing. Concrete and steel costs have been estimated from concept drawings, and piping, electrical and instrumentation costs were estimated using standard industry factors. The capital cost estimate is considered to be +/-30% accuracy. Capital costs included in overall cash flow include $2M per year for sustaining capital items ($38M over full PEA term), and $3M in final reclamation costs in year 20. No salvage costs were assumed. On the basis that the resource is adequate for 45 years at the assumed grade, it is unlikely the project would be closed in year 20 if current assumptions remain viable.
Table 3. PEA Capital Cost Detail
PEA Operating Costs Assumptions
Operating costs were estimated based on metallurgical test work results and METSIM modelling quantities and requirements. The single most significant cost item in operating costs is sulfuric c acid, which is used in quantity and requires transport to site. The second most significant cost item is staff/labor cost. Reagents in total represent approximately 57% of total operating cash costs. Quantities were established through METSIM software outputs, and were 100% vendor-priced. The level of accuracy on the operating component costing in the PEA is +/-25%.
Operating cost details in the PEA are as follows:
Table 4. PEA Operating Costs, and Unit Costs Per kg Oxide
PEA Revenue Pricing Assumptions
The price assumption in the PEA is $2,000 per kilogram (kg), as an average price covering all products sold over various product grades. Current pricing is substantially above these levels, based on small unit quantities and varying grades. The pricing benchmark applied in the PEA was supported by limited current trading and pricing information, our discussions with potential customers, and the understanding that lower prices than scandium trades for today will be necessary to penetrate potential markets with significant sales tonnages in the future.
PEA Sensitivities Analysis
The Nyngan Scandium Project is most sensitive to changes in product pricing, and somewhat less sensitive to either operating cost or capital cost changes, as shown below.
Table 5. Profitability Sensitivities to Changes in Key Assumptions
PEA General Assumptions
The PEA is presented on a 100% ownership basis. As a result of the conversion of the 2014 Loan into a 20% joint venture interest at the project level in Nyngan, the Company currently holds an 80% interest in the Nyngan Scandium Project.
All cash flows and financial analyses have been presented on a 100% equity basis. No debt leverage has been assumed in providing capital for development. No inflation factors have been applied to future cash flows, making the discounted cash flow performance measures constant dollar figures. Had inflation been applied to future cash flow streams, the NPVs and IRRs would have been higher.
The PEA incorporated considerable metallurgical test work independently prepared for SCY over the previous four years, along with engineering, project design work and economic estimates done previously for SCY management. The PEA also utilized existing environmental and detailed mine planning work previously undertaken on the property, and previously incorporated in prior management studies. The PEA had the benefit of prior flow sheet designs, and results, but it did not compare previous designs. The batch autoclave HPAL design presented in the PEA was the only design considered.
PEA Conclusions and Recommendations
This PEA consolidates a significant amount of metallurgical test work and prior study on the Nyngan Scandium Project. The work demonstrates a viable, conventional process s flow sheet utilizing the HPAL leaching process, and good metallurgical recoveries of scandium from the resource. The metallurgical assumptions are supported by various bench and pilot scale independent test work programs that are consistent with known outcomes in other laterite resources. Combined with the capital cost estimate, the Nyngan Scandium Project exhibits robust financial outcomes.
The PEA recommends that project owners proceed to a full feasibility study, including additional test work to confirm certain key process variants. Those recommendations include:
• Consider test work to support process changes that could reduce capital/operating costs;
• Conduct a comparative study between batch and continuous autoclave systems;
• Consider/test certain alternative reagents/techniques in the solvent extraction area;
• Conduct test work to develop engineering parameters around the materials handling properties of the laterite resource as it relates to optimum sizing for best leach results; and
• Conduct test work on pumping and settling properties of process slurries.
Definitive Feasibility Study
On September 10, 2015 the Company announced that it has selected the engineering firm Lycopodium Minerals Pty Ltd, of Brisbane, QLD, Australia (“Lycopodium”), to prepare a DFS on the Nyngan Scandium Project. The work is expected to be completed in the first quarter of 2016. The DFS will include all elements of project description and design to generate an economic report suitable for seeking project construction financing in 2016. Process engineering and other project study elements will be advanced to a +/-15% accuracy level.
While Lycopodium will coordinate the overall project, significant contributions will be sourced from other engineering groups and consultants who have been a part of previous reports, including Altrius Engineering Services Pty Ltd (Brisbane, QLD), Rangott Mineral Exploration Pty Ltd (Orange, NSW), Mining One Consultants (Melbourne, Victoria) and R.W.Corkery & Co. Pty Limited (Orange, NSW). Knight Piesold Pty Ltd (Brisbane, QLD) will contribute engineering services on tailings dams, geotechnical work, and surface water management.
The DFS will incorporate and be based on metallurgical test work independently prepared for the Company over the previous five years, along with engineering, project design work, environmental work on the property, mine planning and development work, and economic estimates done previously for management use, specifically as incorporated in the “Amended Technical Report and Preliminary Economic Assessment on the Nyngan Scandium Project, NSW, Australia”, effective date October 10, 2014, amended and restated issue date May 20, 2015.
The Nyngan Scandium Project DFS has been commissioned to be independently prepared in accordance with the requirements of NI 43-101 as applicable to the preparation of technical reports.
Nyngan Scandium Project - 2014 Drilling Program
On January 29, 2015, we announced assay results from a 14-hole resource drilling program at the Nyngan Scandium Project in NSW, Australia, conducted in October 2014. The 14 hole-program totaled 655 meters in the existing resource area. The program attempted 2 additional exploration holes, which were abandoned due to difficult drilling conditions. Highlights of the fourteen drill-hole program assay results follow:
• Average scandium grade of 357ppm over 214 meters (200ppm cut-off);
• Average scandium grade of 444ppm over 120 meters (300ppm cut-off);
• Best results: 4 meters @ 795ppm, 5 meters @ 755ppm and 7 meters @ 721ppm;
• Best individual 1 meter assay was 879ppm;
• Lithium borate fusion (fusion) assay preparation demonstrated superior result to the traditional four acid method, as used on the resource estimate in 2010; and
• These new assay results strongly support the average grade and location selected and included in the PEA on the Nyngan Scandium Project.
Drilling Program Details
The Company conducted and completed a 14-hole drill program in October, focused on a high grade section of the Nyngan Scandium Project, selected from within the area of the measured and indicated resource disclosed in the NI 43-101 technical report filed on SEDAR in March of 2010. This high grade zone of mostly indicated resource was the basis of a 20 year mine plan and scandium grade assumptions used in the PEA on the Nyngan Scandium Project. This latest drill program was designed to infill certain areas to 50 meter centers (from 100 meter centers), and to provide better information on pit limits as defined in the PEA. The program was conducted using a conventional rotary air core drill rig, which captured over five tonnes of chip sample material, for assay, and for fresh resource material to support ongoing metallurgical test work programs. Holes were vertically drilled, so interval widths in the results table below represent true widths.
The Company assayed all 14 new holes with both four acid digestion, and also by fusion digestion techniques, followed in each case by ICP-AES metal assays. The Company notes that fusion digestion results generally deliver higher scandium assays than the four acid digestion method, traditionally used in nickel and cobalt assay work. We believe the fusion technique generates a truer assay result, because acid digestion of scandium within limonite-hosted mineralization can be incomplete, particularly at higher grades, and flux digestion by high temperature fusion produces a more homogeneous sample for analysis. We intend to rely on and utilize fusion digestion techniques going forward to support our mine planning and advanced economic and development studies.
The limonite-only assay results presented in the summary table below are based on a 200ppm scandium cut-off value, A saprolite resource underlays the limonite, is generally lower in grade, requires somewhat different processing techniques than limonite for optimal recovery, and is not planned for early extraction and processing by the Company. Each hole in the drill program was completed to bedrock, including both limonite and saprolite resource. Saprolite was present in 13 of the 14 holes drilled.
This application of a higher limonite cut-off value of 200ppm is consistent with the PEA assumptions on initial production from the top layer limonite resource. The results presentation is also consistent with the company focus on an initial pit configuration in a higher grade zone of resource. The area of this recent drill result corresponds to the area delineated by the 20 year PEA operating area, and in fact expands beyond that area.
Assay results were taken over each meter of drilling material, and only continuous intervals have been included in the summary table. Reporting intervals above cut-off were established based on fusion results, and the presentation table then applied those same intervals to both fusion and four acid assays for comparability. The generally higher fusion results generated wider resource intervals above cut-off grade, resulting in inclusion of some below cut-off grade assays into the four acid results presented in the table below.
Detail limonite-only results for each drill hole were as follows:
Table 6. Drill hole Limonite Results
The location of the 14-hole drill program is as follows:
Drill Program QAQC standards
SCY employed an independent local geological consulting and drill supervisory team, Rangott Mineral Exploration Pty. Ltd., (“RME”) of Orange NSW, Australia, to manag ge the drill work on-site. Bulk samples of drill returns were collected at one meter intervals from a trailer-mounted cyclone and splitter for one reported hole - EMCG-01, and a separate RME three-tier riffle sp plitter was used on site for holes EMCG-09, EMCG-10 and EMCG-16, due to moisture. Assay samples ranged from 0.4 - 4.7 kg in weight. Individual sample identifiers were cross-checked during the process. The individual assay samples were double-bagged and held in RME’s possession while in the field, prior to transport and storage at RME’s office in Orange. RME personnel checked/validated the sequence of sample numbers, and submitted the samples to Australian Laboratory Services’ (“ALS”) laboratory in Orange, NSW. The remainder of bulk samples were sealed in the field in heavy polyethylene bags and transported by RME to a secure site at Orange for long-term storage or further use in metallurgical test work.
ALS/Orange dried and weighed the received assay samples, and pulverized the entire sample to 85% passing 75 microns or better (technique PUL-21). 50 g bags of the pulps were then split off and sent to the ALS laboratory at Stafford in Brisbane, Queensland for analysis. ALS/Brisbane analyzed the pulps for scandium, nickel, cobalt, chromium, iron, magnesium, manganese, aluminum and calcium, using Inductively Coupled Plasma Atomic Emission Spectroscopy (ICP-AES) after a four acid digestion (technique ME-ICP61). The 4-hole results were also repeat-tested, only for scandium, using a lithium borate fusion digestion technique, followed by similar ICP-AES assay. The lower detection limit for scandium using either technique is 1ppm. RME included one commercial standard sample and three high-grade scandium pulps from previously analyzed batches, for quality control; and also included one duplicate sample from each hole in the batch. For internal quality control, ALS/Brisbane added additional standard samples (for repeat analyses), blank samples and duplicate samples to the batch.
Patent Application Filings
On February 17, 2015 the Company announced the filing of five patent applications with the US Patent Office that correspond to novel flowsheet designs for the recovery of scandium from laterite resource material. All five of these patents are directly applicable to our Nyngan Scandium Project, although one of the five patents pertains to downstream product design.
The five patent applications are titled as follows:
1.
Systems and methodologies for recovering scandium values from mixed ion solutions;
2.
Systems and methodologies for direct acid leaching of scandium bearing laterite ores;
3.
Solvent extraction of scandium from leach solutions;
4.
Systems and processes for recovering scandium values from laterite ores; and
5.
Scandium-containing master alloys and method for making the same.
Patent Applications Discussion:
•
These patent applications cover novel, unique flowsheet designs, applicable to scandium extraction, from scandiferous laterite resources;
•
The patented designs are largely supported by test work done with Nyngan Scandium Project resource material and known design parameters;
•
The patents cover HPAL system material flows, SX, ion exchange systems (“IX”), atmospheric tank and heap leaching systems and techniques, and processes for directly making select master alloys containing scandium;
•
The designs will be part of a DFS, scheduled for 2015; and
•
The master alloy patent application uniquely integrates planned flowsheet design and downstream product development, either by SCY or with future customers.
These five patent applications have been filed with the US Patent Office, with dates of record from September 2014 to February 2015. They protect the Company’s position and rights to the intellectual property (IP) contained and identified in the applications as of the date filed, within the worldwide jurisdiction limits of the US patent system. Review by the US Patent Office takes further time, but the dates of record define the basis of IP ownership claims, as is generally afforded US patent-holders.
The Company intends to utilize the IP contained in these process patents in the development of process flowsheets for recovery of scandium from its Nyngan Scandium Project.
The Company believes that patent protection of these specific, novel process designs will be granted. Many of the basic design elements contemplated in the Nyngan Scandium Project flowsheet are commonly applied to other specialty metals, particularly nickel. However, the application of these basic design elements has not been commonly applied to scandium extraction from laterite resources, and there are enough intended and required operational differences in the application to permit the Company to patent-protect IP on those differences.
These patent claims are the result of several years of metallurgical testwork with independent resource laboratories and specific design work by Willem Duyvesteyn, the Company’s Chief Technology Officer, using Nyngan property resource material. This work is ongoing. Patent protection on flowsheet intellectual property will serve to limit or prevent the unauthorized use of that IP by others, without the Company’s consent. We believe these filings are an important action to protect the ownership of a Company asset, on behalf of all SCY shareholders.
ALCERECO MOU and Offtake Agreements
On March 30, 2015, the Company announced that it had signed a memorandum of understanding (the “MOU”) with ALCERECO Inc. of Kingston, Ontario (“ALCERECO”), forming a strategic alliance to develop markets and applications for aluminum alloys containing scandium. To further that alliance, and to reinforce the capability of both companies to deliver product developed for Al-Sc alloy markets, SCY and ALCERECO also signed an offtake agreement (the “Offtake Agreement”) governing sales terms of scandium oxide product (scandia) produced from the Nyngan Scandium Project. The Offtake Agreement specifies deliveries of scandium oxide product commencing in early 2017.
Scandium as an alloying agent in aluminum allows for aluminum metal products that are much stronger, more easily weldable and exhibit improved performance at higher temperatures than current aluminum based materials. This means lighter structures, lower manufacturing costs and improved performance in areas that aluminum alloys do not currently compete.
• The MOU covers areas of joint cooperation and development of aluminum alloys that contain and are enhanced by the addition of scandium;
• The MOU recognizes the specialized capabilities ALCERECO holds for the design, manufacture, and testing of Al-Sc alloy materials;
• The Offtake Agreement outlines standard sale terms on 7,500 kg of scandia per annum, for a term of three years beginning in 2017, which can be extended; and
• The Offtake Agreement contains both fixed and variable pricing components, which are subject to confidentiality.
ALCERECO is an advanced materials development company that provides services and specialty processing capabilities to companies innovating in a diverse range of markets, including aerospace, automotive, electronics and consumer/sporting goods. ALCERECO staff work with a range of materials and processes and have the tools and knowledge to take on leading-edge projects such as development of aluminum-scandium alloys, specialty ceramics, composites and graphene enhanced materials. ALCERECO has a particular focus on lightweight materials capable of delivering greater strength, functionality and exceptional performance.
ALCERECO operates out of the Grafoid Global Technology Centre in Kingston, Ontario that was originally founded by Alcan Aluminum in the 1940s. ALCERECO is a Canadian private company, and a wholly-owned subsidiary of Ottawa-based Grafoid Inc., a graphene application development company.
Nyngan Scandium Project - Planned Activities for 2016-2017
The following steps are planned for Nyngan during the 2016 and 2017 Calendar years:
• Complete and file an EIS on the Nyngan Scandium Project in Q1 2016;
• Complete an advanced stage economic study (the DFS) with a +/- 15% accuracy level, scheduled for completion during the first quarter of 2016, and filed on SEDAR in the second quarter of 2016;
• Make formal application for a mining license pertaining to the Nyngan Scandium Project with NSW Mines Department in Q1 2016;
• Pursue additional offtake agreements in support of planned future scandium sales;
• Seek project financing to fund the construction of the Nyngan Scandium Project for drawdown after the granting of a mining license from NSW for the mine development;
• Commence site construction during in 2017, with anticipated construction completion over 12 months, targeting year-end 2017; and
• Initiate project commissioning in Q1 2018, with product available for sale by the end of Q1 2018.
Honeybugle Scandium Property
On April 2, 2014 the Company announced that it had secured a 100% interest in an exploration license (EL 7977) covering 34.7 square kilometers in New South Wales (NSW), Australia referred to as the Honeybugle Scandium property. The license area is located approximatelly 24 kilometers west-southwest from SCY’s Nyngan Scandium Project. The license area covers part of the Honeybugle geologic complex, and will carry that name in our future references to the property. The ground was released by the prior holder, and SCY intends to explore the property for scandium and other metals.
The Company currently does not consider the Honeybugle Scandium prop perty to be a material property at this time. No resources or reserves are known to exist on the property. The property is classified as an Australian property for purposes of financial statement segment information.
The location of the Honeybugle Scandium property is provided below.
Honeybugle Drill Results
On May 7, 2014 the Company announced completion of an initial program of 30 air core (AC) drill holes on the property, specifically at the Seaford anomaly, targeting scandium (Sc). Results on 13 of these holes are shown in detail, in the table below. These holes suggest the potential for scandium mineralization on the property similar to our Nyngan Scandiu um Project.
Highlights of initial drilling program results are as follows:
•
The highest 3-meter intercept graded 572 ppm scandium (hole EHAC 11);
•
EHAC 11 also generated two additional high grade scandium intercepts, grading 510 ppm and 415 ppm, each over 3 meters;
•
The program identified a 13-hole cluster which was of particular interest;
•
Intercepts on these 13 holes averaged 270 ppm scandium over a total 273 meters at an average continuous thickness of 21 meters per hole, representing a total of 57% (354 meters) of total initial program drilling;
•
The 13 holes produced 29 individual (3-meter) intercepts over 300 ppm, representing 31% of the mineralized intercepts in the 273 meters of interest; and
•
This initial 30-hole AC exploratory drill program generated a total of 620 meters of scandium drill/assay results, over approximately 1 square kilometer on the property.
The detail results of 13 holes in the initial drill program are as follows:
Table 7. Results of 13-Hole Initial Drill Program
Seaford is characterized by extensive outcrops of dry, iron-rich laterites, allowing for a particularly shallow drill program. Thirty (30) air core (AC) holes on nominal 100-meter spacing were planned, over an area of approximately 1 square kilometer. Four holes were halted in under 10 meters depth, based on thin laterite beds, low scandium grades, and shallow bedrock.
The 13 holes highlighted in the table are grouped together on either side of Coffills Lane, and represent all of the drill locations where meaningful intercept thicknes ss generated scandium grades exceeding 175 ppm. Some of these 13 holes showed significant scandium values on the immediate surface, and alternately, other holes exhibited favorable scandium grades that began at shallow depth. The highest grade Sc sample was found in a 21-24 meter interval (572 ppm), althoug gh several holes produced better than 350 ppm Sc intercepts at depths of under 9 meters. The deepest hole (EHAC 7) was drilled to 57 meters, showing good scandium grades over a 12-meter horizon (245 ppm) near the bottom of the hole, from 39 to 51 meters depth. Higher scandium grades were associated with higher iron levels. Holes were drilled to a depth where they contacted the fresh ultramafic bedrock, which generally signaled the end of any scandium enrichment zones.
The drill plan divided Seaford into four sub-areas, 1-4, as highlighted Figure 5, below. Area 1 was relatively higher ground and therefore the least impacted by ground moisture. Consequently this dryer area received the greatest attention, although that had been the general intention in the plan. Area 1 received 17 holes, with 13 presented in detail in the table ab bove. Areas 2-4 were each intended as step-out areas that need to be further examined in the next program. The three step-out areas did not generate results of particular note, although hole locations were not optimal due to ground conditions and access.
• Area 2 received 3 holes, 60 meters total, and generated Sc grades from 45-75 ppm,
• Area 3 received 4 holes, 87 meters total, and generated Sc grades from 47-122 ppm,
• Area 4 received 5 holes, 72 meters total, and generated Sc grades from 60-101 ppm, and
• The average depth of all of these holes was 18 meters, with the deepest 30 meters.
This 13-hole cluster (Area 1) was noted to be in a relatively thick laterite zone which was constrained to the west by contact with meta-sediments, to the east by fresh ultramafic bedrock, and to some extent in the north by a poor intersection result in hole 30. Area 1 remains somewhat open to the south, with the two southern-most holes (EHAC 9 and EHAC 29) generating some of the best scandium grade intercepts in the area.
The surface and near surface mineralization at this property is an advantage, both in locating areas of interest for future exploration work, and also because of extremely low overburden ratios. This particular characteristic for the Honeybugle Scandium property is different to our Nyngan Scandium Project, where mineralization is typically covered by 10-20 meters of barren alluvium.
Further drilling at Seaford is warranted, based on the results of this introductory and modest program, specifically to the north and south of the existing area 1 drill pattern, along with investigation and select drilling at the other three remaining anomalies on the property.
Qualified Person and Quality Assurance/Quality Control
John Thompson, B.E. (Mining); Vice President - Development at SCY is a qualified person as defined in NI 43-101 and has reviewed the technical information on this property. The drilling, sampling, packaging and transport of the drill samples was carried out to industry standards for QA/QC. SCY employed an independent local geology consulting and drill supervisory team, Rangott Mineral Exploration Pty. Ltd., (RME) of Orange, NSW, Australia, to manage the drill work on-site. Bulk samples of drill returns were collected at one metre intervals from a cyclone mounted on the drilling rig, and a separate three-tier riffle splitter was used on site to obtain 2.0 -4.5kg composite samples collected over 3 metre intervals, for assay. Individual sample identifiers were cross-checked during the process. The assay samples were placed in sealed polyweave bags which remained in RME’s possession until the completion of the drilling program, at which time they were transported to RME’s office in Orange. There, the sequence of sample numbers was validated, and the assay samples were immediately submitted to Australian Laboratory Services’ (ALS’) laboratory in Orange. The remnant bulk samples, which were collected in sealed polythene bags, were transported by RME to a local storage unit at Miandetta, for long-term storage.
ALS/Orange dried and weighed the samples, and pulverized the entire sample to 85% passing 75 microns or better (technique PUL-21). These 50g sample bags of pulps were then sent to the ALS laboratory at Stafford in Brisbane, Queensland for analysis. ALS/Brisbane analyzed the pulps for scandium, nickel, cobalt, chromium, iron and magnesium, using Inductively Coupled Plasma Atomic Emission Spectroscopy (ICP-AES) after a four acid (total) digestion (technique ME-ICP61). The lower detection limit for scandium using this technique is 1ppm. For their internal quality control, ALS/Brisbane added 4 standard samples (for 20 repeat analyses), 10 blank samples and 16 duplicate samples to the batch. Please see news release see news release dated May 7, 2014 and available on www.sedar.com for further information on the Honeybugle drill results.
Tørdal Property
During 2011 we entered into option agreements with REE Mining AS of Norway, to obtain exploration rights to several properties located in central and southern Norway. Based on exploration results and holding costs, the Tørdal property holding was retained but all other Norway properties were subsequently dropped. The Tørdal agreement was renegotiated to secure a 100% ownership position for SCY. The 90 sq km Tørdal exploration property is prospective for a grouping of specialty metals, and rare earth elements, including scandium, yttrium, tantalum, beryllium, niobium, zirconium, titanium, lithium, nickel and tin.
The Company currently does not consider the Tørdal property, located in Norway, to be a material property at this time. No resources or reserves are known to exist on the property. The property is classified as the Norway Property for purposes of financial statement segment information.
The location of the Tørdal property is provided in Figure 6 below.
2012 Tørdal Field Exploration
On February 14, 2013 we announced promising results from field exploration work on the Tørdal property during the summer and fall months of 2012, focussed on scandium-bearing pegmatites. The 2012 work included independent assay results of pegmatite rock samples taken from one specific property area, and also includes an extensive pegmatite mapping program covering approximately 30 sq km. The assay results indicated the presence of high levels of scandium and various rare earth elements (REE’s), including heavy rare earth elements (HREE’s) in particular. Field XRF readings indicated elevated scandium content in hundreds of large and small pegmatite bodies found and mapped in the reconnaissance area.
Highlights of the results of the 2012 field exploration are as follows:
• Tørdal 2012 assays of pegmatite rocks show presence of both scandium and REE’s;
• Best scandium assays exceed 1,600 ppm;
• Promising HREE assay results from pegmatites with gadolinite mineralization;
• Host rock mineralization points to higher grade scandium or HREE contents;
• 2012 summer exploration program mapped and sampled over 300 pegmatites;
• A total of 1,940 Niton XRF scandium readings were taken on whole rock samples; and
• Overall program results at Tørdal are very encouraging and warrant expanded exploration.
Assay Results of Grab Samples at Tørdal
The 2011 summer exploration program on the Tørdal property consisted of reconnaissance, surface soil sampling, and limited pegmatite mapping work in a relatively small area north of the village of Kleppe, in Southern Norway.
As a follow-on from that 2011 program, the company then returned to the same area and conducted a series of ‘blasts’, using small explosive charges to generate whole rock samples on select exposed pegmatites, at the locations of the best soil sample results. The exploration team planned 9 blasts and conducted 8, on 5 different pegmatite bodies, from which they assembled 23 grab samples for analysis and assay by OMAC Laboratories in Ireland. Assay results on these samples were received in Q1 2012-in time to help formulate the 2012 summer/autumn season pegmatite mapping program, conducted on a much wider area.
Independent assay results on 20 of the 23 samples, covering all 5 targeted pegmatites, are shown below.
Table 8. Independent Assay Results
Note: Assay results are as-reported elemental assay results from OMAC Laboratories, and are not converted to oxide equivalent (REO & Sc2O3). Heavy rare earth elements abbreviated “HREE”; and include Yttrium;Total rare earth elements abbreviated “TREE”.
The numbered assay samples were formed either by random selection of fresh (un-weathered) whole rock material broken loose from individual pegmatite bodies, or alternatively, based on selectively collecting fresh rock material that was clearly (1) garnet-laden, (2) mica-laden, or showed clear visible (3) gadolinite mineralization. Gadolinite is a beryllium and rare earth-bearing mineral with the chemical formula [(Ce,La,Nd,Y)2FeBe2Si2O10]. The intent was to determine from assay results if certain visible mineralization correlated to the presence and concentrations of target elements; specifically scandium, rare earth elements (REE’s), or other metals of interest and value.
The results in the assay table indicate that all of the selected pegmatites contain interesting levels of both REE’s and scandium. In general, all of the pegmatites contained both target elements, while the mica phase appears to hold the higher scandium concentrations with small REE additions, and the gadolinite phase holds the highest REE concentrations and small scandium additions. The presence of garnet material in samples tended to generate interesting but moderate values for both REE’s and scandium. Assay work was designed to identify 30 specific elements, including all 16 REE elements plus scandium, and the relative concentration of heavy REE’s was of particular interest. The mica and garnet grab sample materials had generally only trace levels of thorium and uranium (average <15 ppm), while the gadolinite grab sample materials had thorium levels between 2,500-5,000 ppm, and uranium levels between 500-1,300 ppm. A full table of OMAC assay results related to these 23 sample analyses is available on the Company website at www.scandiummining.com.
Reconnaissance Results - Extended Pegmatite Mapping Program at Tørdal
Following on from the 2011 work and the 2012 assay results, we conducted an expanded 2012 summer work reconnaissance program at both Tørdal and Evje-Iveland, from July through October. The goals of the 2012 program were to develop detailed mapping of outcropping pegmatite fields over a much broader area than the 2011 program, while also conducting field sampling of scandium mineralization on those pegmatites using a hand-held Niton XRF Analyzer.
The 2012 program concentrated on five separate areas (approximately 30 sq km) as can be seen in the map below:
A total of 1,940 Niton XRF readings were logged on whole rock and pegmatite mineral separates, logged against individually mapped and numbered pegmatite bodies. The XRF readings ranged up to +6,000 ppm scandium (on a mineral separate), and averaged 661 ppm on 1,504 total logged readings above the instrument’s 20 ppm detection limit. XRF readings focussed on scandium data collection only, although the team diligently noted the visible presence of gadolinite and amazonite mineralization.
The reader is cautioned that hand-held Niton XRF readings are not the same as laboratory assays, and are not NI 43-101 compliant with regard to estimating resource grades. However, the Company is confident that these data readings are highly useful in confirming and shaping the next stage of the exploration program on this property.
A summary of results by area is as follows:
•
Area 1 (Kleppe); Mapped more than 50 pegmatite bodies. Best average XRF Sc readings from 1,000-1,500 ppm, some very large surface expressions. Gadolinite present.
•
Area 2 (Heftetjern); Partially mapped more than 40 pegmatite bodies, many large surface expressions, green amazonite mineralization. Better XRF Sc readings from 500-1,500 ppm.
•
Area 3 (Solli); Mapped numerous large and small pegmatites. Generally lower XRF Sc readings, ranging 300-700 ppm. Red feldspars, quartz and gadolinite mineralization present.
•
Area 4 (South Kleppsvatn); Partially mapped large area containing more than 80 pegmatites, generally mica-based. Typical XRF Sc readings in the 300-900 ppm range, with some reaching 1,500 ppm Sc.
•
Area 5 (Buvatn); Partially mapped, numerous pegmatite bodies, some very large. Typical XRF Sc readings in the 300-1,000 ppm range. Old feldspar quarries, amonizite mineralization present.
Next Steps in Norway Exploration Program
The Company mapping and sampling work has confirmed that much of the Tørdal property is heavily populated with complex, near-surface pegmatite bodies. Based on hand-held XRF readings and mineralogy, these pegmatites show excellent promise for significant scandium enrichment, particularly within bodies containing micas, and for REE mineralization where the rare earth silicate gadolinite is present. Based on the results of 2012 exploration work, planning for future exploration work is under consideration, but is dependent on the Company’s ability to adequately fund further exploration work. The priority project is the Nyngan Scandium Project, so funding for further exploration in Norway is specifically subject to adequate prior funding of Nyngan.
Qualified Person and Quality Assurance/Quality Control
Sampling methods followed industry quality control standards. Mr. Kjell Nilsen, an independent geologist consultant currently employed by SCY, conducted the reconnaissance and sampling on the property. Individual whole rock grab samples were collected by hand shovel, from areas where blasted material could be seen to have come from blast points on pegmatite bodies. The assayed samples were individually bagged, sealed, logged on the grid map as to location, boxed in a container suitable for mailing, and sent by express mail to OMAC Laboratories Limited in Galway, Ireland for testing. Assay testing on the samples utilized an ICP-MS spectrometer (Inductively Coupled Plasma-Mass Spectrometry) to test for numerous elements, specifically scandium. The numerous Niton XRF (X-ray Fluorescence) readings were taken at field locations, logged and identified with individual numbered pegmatites, located on grid maps, by the field geology team. Mr. Willem Duyvesteyn, Chief Technology Officer of SCY, is the Qualified Person who is responsible for the design and conduct of the exploration program, and reviewed the program results.
ITEM 3.