ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
Our principal executive offices are located at 1301 Avenue M, Cisco, Texas, USA 76437. Our mailing address is P.O. Box 31, Cisco, Texas 76437.
As of July 31, 2013, we owned or had lease on the following properties:
Empress Property
On September 7, 2012, we entered into a mineral lease agreement with MinQuest Inc. of Reno, Nevada. Pursuant to the terms of the Agreement, MinQuest has agreed to lease us 100% of the exploration and mining rights to the Empress Property for a period of 20 years. As consideration, we are required to provide annual payments and complete work expenditures.
MinQuest will also retain a 3% net smelter return royalty in the event that we initiate mineral production on the Empress Property. If we are unable to fulfill any of the commitments set out above, the mineral lease agreement will terminate and all property rights will revert back to MinQuest.
As of July 31, 2013, the Company has paid $20,000 for the first year annual payment and incurred $150,000 in work expenditures.
Location and Access
The Empress Property is situated in southwestern Nevada. The property is located in Esmeralda County, Nevada, approximately 26 miles south of Goldfield in the Tokop mining district. Access is via 10 miles of gravel roads from the small hamlet of Gold Point. The property is located near the eastern margin of the Montezuma Range. Branch roads, some requiring 4-wheel drive vehicles, lead to most parts of the property. The town of Goldfield, the County seat, offers few services. Some supplies and services are available in Tonopah, 26 miles north of Goldfield. The property consists of 27 unpatented claims totaling 540 acres.
Ownership Interest
On September 7, 2012 we entered into a Mineral Lease Agreement with MinQuest, Inc. Pursuant to the terms of the Agreement, MinQuest, Inc., has agreed to lease us 100% of the exploration and mining rights to the Empress Property. As consideration, we are required to provide annual payments of $20,000 and commit to the following work expenditures:
·
$150,000 spent in the first year;
·
$200,000 spent in the second year;
·
$250,000 spent in the third year;
·
$300,000 spent in the fourth year;
·
$350,000 spent in the fifth year;
·
$400,000 in the sixth year; and
·
$650,000 in the seventh year.
MinQuest will also retain a 3% net smelter royalty in the event that we enter mineral production on the Empress Property. If we are unable to fulfill any of the commitments set out above, the Mineral Lease Agreement will terminate and all property rights will revert back to MinQuest, Inc.
History of Operations
Although there is little information on the early history of the area the property was likely first discovered in the 1860’s when Silver Peak, located 30 miles to the northwest, was developed. Obvious exploitation of the veins probably occurred around the turn of the century, in the 1930’s and probably intermittently thereafter. A drill program was conducted in the early 1980’s by Homestake Mining Co. Although none of the Homestake drill data is available, a brief summary from Homestake geologists confirm the presence of gold mineralization and the partial success of their drill program. At least five holes and maybe more were known to be drilled during this venture. In 2007-2008, American Consolidated drilled 6 core holes.
Below the 7 adits that make up the Empress Mine are the remnants of a mill and several stone foundations from that era. Little production is reported for the district, although the Gold Point district, immediately to the north, produced gold and silver. The Wonder Mine, located 2,000 feet southwest of Empress, was worked in the 1930’s as judged by artifacts, and probably direct shipped its ore to a mill elsewhere.
At the Wonder mine area, there is solid evidence of six existing drill holes (two holes found, one angle and one vertical, and drill chips from four others) and three probable holes (drill sites prepared for angled holes). These holes were all collared in the hanging wall of the Wonder vein irregularly spaced across some 1,500 feet of strike length.
Geology
The property lies within the southern portion of the Walker Lane structural corridor. Major mines within the lower portion of the Walker Lane include Tonopah, Goldfield and Silver Peak. Mineralization in the Tokop district occurs in quartz veins hosted by granitic rocks of the Sylvania pluton. At least 3 separate east-west trending, steeply dipping quartz veins are exposed on the property. Over the years the property owner has had several geologists sample the veins. Most of this sampling is underground as the veins are poorly exposed on the surface.
Much of southern Esmeralda County is underlain by plutonic rock, dated as Jurassic, that has intruded, assimilated, and metamorphosed a section of upper Proterozioc siliciclastics and carbonates. The Sylvania Pluton is quartz monzonite in composition, very likely an exposed southeasterly outlier of the Inyo portion of the Sierra Nevada Batholith.
Major east-west striking, faults with traceable continuity over tens of miles cross lithologic contacts and are themselves crosscut by younger faults. Brecciated, sheared quartz veins, hosting precious metal mineralization, represent repeated fault movements, probably originating during Jurassic intrusion with Tertiary overprints.
The historic Empress mine area is underlain by a portion of the Sylvania Pluton, a light to medium gray, medium to coarse grained biotite, k-feldspar equigranular intrusive rock that fits the quartz monzonite classification as a field designation. The intrusive typically displays “soft”, rounded shapes with abundant decomposed material, yet outcrops are normally abundant. Fine grained, dense, light to dark aplite dikes ranging from 1” to 12” wide are common.
Present Condition and Plan of Exploration
In late 2012, our company drilled a total of five angled RC holes totaling 2,100 feet. Three holes were drilled at Wonder and two at the Empress Mine. No high-grade gold/silver was intersected and after further study and interpretation of the results, the Company subsequently decided to terminate its lease on the Empress Property.
Winnemucca Mountain Property
Effective September 14, 2012, our company entered into an option agreement (as amended and restated on November 15, 2012 and February 1, 2013) with AHL Holdings Ltd., a Nevada corporation, and Golden Sands Exploration Inc., a company incorporated under the laws of British Columbia, Canada, wherein the company acquired an option to purchase a 70%, in and to certain mining claims from AHL Holdings and Golden Sands, which claims form the Winnemucca Mountain Properties in Humboldt County, Nevada. The Winnemucca Mountain Property is currently comprised of 208 unpatented mining claims covering an area of approximately 3,800 acres. As consideration our company is required to make cash and share payments and complete work expenditures.
If the option is exercised, the amended and restated option agreement provides that AHL Holdings and Golden Sands will enter into a joint venture agreement with our company. Our company will solely be responsible for financing the joint venture and will act as sole operator in consideration of a fee.
AHL Holdings and Golden Sands will also retain a 3% net smelter royalty in the event that we initiate mineral production on the Winnemucca Mountain Property. If we are unable to fulfill any of the terms of the option agreement (as amended and restated), the option agreement will terminate and all property rights will revert back to AHL Holdings and Golden Sands.
As of July 31, 2013 we have paid $115,000 in cash payments, issued 100,000 common shares, paid an advance royalty payment of $20,000, and advanced $21,028 for exploration expenditures as required by the agreement.
Location and Access
The Winnemucca Mountain Property is located in north-western Nevada, approximately 4 miles northwest of the municipality of Winnemucca. The property is within the Winnemucca Mountain Mining District of Humboldt County. The claims are situated on the west flank of Winnemucca Mountain. A map showing the location of and access to the Winnemucca Mountain Property is attached below
The Winnemucca Mountain Property is accessible from State Route 49, a graded gravel road from Winnemucca to Jungo. The claims that comprise the Winnemucca Mountain Property lie in an irregular, northerly trending block along the western flanks of Winnemucca Mountain. The mountain slopes are generally moderate along the west side of the claims, steepening on the east and in drainages. Pediment and alluvium cover is extensive, particularly in the western, or lower, part of the property where a classic bajada is developed. Within the claims, elevations range from approximately 4,700 feet in the southwest corner to nearly 6,600 feet in the east. The area is devoid of trees, and vegetation consists of sagebrush and sparse grass. The climate in southern Humboldt County is arid with annual rainfall averaging 8 inches and snowfall of 16 inches. The area is characterized by hot summers and short, cold winters.
Ownership Interest
Effective September 14, 2012, our company entered into an option agreement (as amended and restated on November 15, 2012 and February 1, 2013) with AHL Holdings Ltd., a Nevada corporation, and Golden Sands Exploration Inc., a company incorporated under the laws of British Columbia, Canada, wherein we acquired an option to purchase a 70%, in and to certain mining claims from AHL Holdings and Golden Sands, which claims form the Winnemucca Mountain Properties in Humboldt County, Nevada. The Winnemucca Mountain Property is currently comprised of 208 unpatented mining claims covering an area of approximately 3,800 acres. As consideration to earn a 70% interest, the company is required to make cash and share payments and complete work expenditures.
If the option is exercised, the amended and restated option agreement provides that AHL Holdings and Golden Sands will enter into a joint venture agreement. Our company will solely be responsible for financing the joint venture and will act as sole operator in consideration of a fee.
AHL Holdings and Golden Sands will also retain a 3% net smelter royalty in the event that we begin mineral production on the Winnemucca Mountain Property. If we are unable to fulfill any of the commitments set out above, the option agreement will terminate and all property rights will revert back to AHL Holdings and Golden Sands.
Therefore in order to exercise the right, as of July 31, 2013 we are required to pay $1,715,000 in aggregate as follows:
•
$50,000 on signing (paid);
•
a further $25,000 by November 15, 2012 ($5,000 of which is a penalty payment and is a firm commitment, paid);
•
a further $10,000 by February 1, 2013 (which is a penalty payment, paid);
a further $30,000 by April 1, 2013 (which is firm commitment, paid);
•
a further $200,000 by December 15, 2013;
•
a further $300,000 by September 14, 2014;
•
a further $400,000 by September 14, 2015;
•
a further $700,000 by September 14, 2016; and
Issue and deliver 100,000 shares by September 30, 2012 (done) and incur exploration expense of $4,000,000 as follows:
•
incur exploration expense of at least $150,000 by July 1, 2013;
•
incur cumulative exploration expense of at least $500,000 by December 31, 2013;
•
incur cumulative exploration expense of at least $1,000,000 by December 31, 2014;
•
incur cumulative exploration expense of at least $2,000,000 by December 31, 2015;
•
incur cumulative exploration expense of at least $4,000,000 by December 31, 2016;
As of July 31, 2013 we have paid $115,000 in option payments, paid an advance royalty payment of $20,000, and advanced $21,028 for exploration expenditures as required by the agreement.
Subsequent to July 31, 2013, on August 26, 2013 our company entered into an amended and restated option agreement with AHL Holdings and Golden Sands which materially modifies and replaces the terms of the original option agreement (as amended). The amended and restated agreement increases the interest that we may purchase in the Winnemucca property to 80% from 70%, modifies the exercise price payable in respect of the option, and extends schedule for delivery of payment and performance of obligations required for exercise of the option. In that regard, the aggregate cash fee payable to exercise the option has been increased from $1,715,000 to $1,755,000 and the total number of common shares issuable to exercise the option has been increased from 100,000 to 2,100,000. The revised payment schedule also defers $1,000,000 of the total sum payable until December 31, 2017, and defers all existing exploration milestones by 1 year. Finally the agreement provides that the Canadian optionor may elect to receive shares of our common stock in lieu of any cash payments payable pursuant to the agreement at a 75% discount to the then current market price.
History of Operations
The discovery of the Comstock Lode in western Nevada in 1859 spurred mineral exploration throughout Nevada. Gold and silver were first discovered in the Winnemucca Mining District in 1863 and, during the 1860’s, several smelters were constructed along the Humboldt River. The early productive lodes consisted of quartz veins containing small amounts of variably oxidized copper and lead.
The first significant gold discovery in Humboldt County was the Getchell gold deposit in 1933. The Getchell Mine began production in 1938 and has operated intermittently since. The current owners are Barrick and Newmont, The mine was reopened in 2002 with a resource of 7 million ounces of gold. Since discovery of the Getchell Deposit, Humboldt County has been the site of numerous other significant gold discoveries. Major gold deposits in the area include the Lone Tree, Marigold, Preble, Pinson, Turquoise Ridge, and Twin Creeks, all located east and northeast of Winnemucca, and the Hycroft (Crowfoot-Lewis), Sandman, Rosebud, and Sleeper deposits to the northwest.
On Winnemucca Mountain itself, the Adamson mine, located in the northeast portion of section 11, reported gold production from “rich ore” in 1911-1912 totaling $13,711 (approximately 20 kg of gold equivalent; Willden, 1964). The Pride of the Mountain mine, which reported gold and silver production during 1915, is situated just east of the Golden West claims in the northwestern portion of section 23. Both mines exploited gold-bearing quartz veins cutting metasedimentary rocks. Topographic maps indicate six ‘prospects’ and one old ‘mine’ within the boundaries of the Golden West 8 and 10 claims. These may be mercury workings referred to by Schnell & Hodges.
The upper slopes of Winnemucca Mountain contain dozens of prospects and several old mines. One of these, the Shively Mine on the north side of Winnemucca Mountain, exploited a west-northwest striking, moderate to steeply dipping quartz-calcite vein. In 1982, St. Joe conducted a drilling program directed at this structure. Results of their drilling included 90 feet of 0.34 g/t Au in DH1 and 30 feet of 0.69 g/t Au in DH2.
The earliest available record of exploration within the present Winnemucca Mountain property claim area is an undated map by St. Joe American Corporation that describes rock sampling over much of the claim block and soil sampling across the Golden West 6 to 13 claim area. This work was most likely done in conjunction with work in the Shively Mine area during 1982. The same map indicates that Cordilleran Exploration (Cordex) drilled seven drill holes, also on the Golden West 6 to 13 claims. However, an undated compilation map by Santa Fe places these Cordex drill holes (holes WV1 - 7, WV11 and WV16 - 18) over 4,900 feet to the east of the Golden West claims. The true location of these holes is therefore uncertain and should not be relied upon. Metzler reports that the Cordex holes were drilled in 1972; in addition, 700 feet of trenching was completed and over 3,300 feet of existing underground workings were mapped and sampled and the construction of drill access roads were completed. A map dated October 1982 indicates that induced polarization, magnetic, and VLF electromagnetic surveys were performed on the property. Details of work done by St. Joe and Cordex are not available.
The next record of exploration is by Arctic Precious Metals Inc. in 1985. Work over the next few years included rock sampling by Arctic and Tenneco Minerals in 1986, with geological mapping by Arctic in 1986 in the northern claim area. During 1987, Arctic drilled 1,916 feet in 5 reverse circulation drill holes. Results were encouraging with hole WM 5 intersecting a 5 feet interval of 1,050 ppb gold. The next year, Arctic conducted detailed rock sampling and VLF-EM and magnetic surveys over a breccia pipe target area, followed by 7 diamond drill holes for a total of 2,100 feet. Drill hole WM 7 intersected up to 1,950 ppb gold over 5 feet and WM 13 cut two large intervals (145 feet and 181 feet) of elevated gold in a breccia (164 ppb and 147 ppb respectively; SFPM data).
In late 1988, Santa Fe Pacific Mining, Inc. (now Newmont) entered into a joint venture with Arctic after recognizing the significance of anomalous gold in the breccia pipe identified by the Arctic drilling. Santa Fe became operator and, between 1988 and 1990, conducted geological mapping, rock sampling, trenching, CSAMT and induced polarization geophysical surveys, collected 286 auger hole bedrock samples, and completed a total of 52,470.8 feet in 73 reverse circulation drill holes. Three of these drill holes were re-entered with a diamond drill. The total diamond drill footage is uncertain but is in excess of 477 feet. Not all of Santa Fe’s drilling was within the boundaries of the current claim block. Santa Fe’s work outlined the Swordfish occurrence that extends approximately 2,200 feet along the western flank of Winnemucca Mountain within the current claim block.
In 1994, Anvil Resources of Vancouver, B.C., acquired the property and became the project operator. Anvil did a great deal of internal compilation work, prepared a topographic base map and collected surface samples to confirm previous gold tenors. They performed test assaying to determine optimum analytical procedures for coarse gold samples and milling tests on bulk samples to maximize gold liberation. An induced polarization (IP) survey conducted in 1996 confirmed that resistivity highs correlated well with known mineralized areas and delineated two new target zones.
In 2006-2007 Meridian Minerals Corp. acquired an option on the property from Evolving Gold Corp. Meridian conducted two separate drilling programs on the property. Twelve angled holes were drilled, totaling 7473 feet. In 2007 four additional angled holes were subsequently drilled totaling 2,659 feet. This drilling , targeted northwest and northeast striking veins to the northeast of the Swordfish Zone, and a further 3 holes targeted a vein system in the very north of the Property This drilling intersected lower grade mineralization than the moderate to high grade intercepts in the Swordfish Zone
Santa Fe Pacific Gold Corp. utilized a computer program called Geostat to calculate a cross-sectional resource estimate for the Swordfish zone area. Santa Fe estimated that the Swordfish zone contained 4.15 million metric tons grading 0.82 g/t gold (4.58 million short tons grading 0.028 opt gold) at a 0.29 g/t cutoff (0.01 opt cutoff). All resource calculations were based on arithmetic averages. This estimated resource occurs in an area 2,200 feet long and 700 feet deep.
In March 2013 the Company contracted consultants to study the mineralization and known resources on the Winnemucca Mountain Property. Company consultants completed mapping and geochemical sampling of the 3000 feet long Swordfish zone on the Property. Using this surface work along with historical drill results, 3D modeling of the gold/silver mineralization was completed. Based on the results of the initial work, Company consultants have recommended further exploration on the property including geophysics, core and reverse circulation (RC) drilling
Geology
Regional Geology - Nevada lies within the Basin and Range geological province. The geologic structure of this province is the result of repeated interactions between the North American Plate and oceanic plates to the west which are expressed as folds, thrust faults, strike slip faults, normal faults, igneous intrusions, volcanism, metamorphism and sedimentary basins. Every mountain range in the Basin and Range province is bounded on at least one side by a normal fault, many of which are still active. The area’s highly complex and active tectonic history has created a diversity of depositional environments, deep-seated structures, hydrothermal centers and numerous mineral deposits.
Humboldt County is underlain by rocks ranging in age from probable early Cambrian to late Miocene or early Pliocene. In general, the oldest rocks are in the southeastern portion of the county with younger rocks to the north and west, however, late Tertiary volcanic and sedimentary rocks are randomly distributed throughout the county. Five orogenic episodes have been recognized but structural and lithologic elements are not continuous between mountain ranges. The most important of the orogenic episodes in Nevada is the Antler Orogeny, the late Devonian collision of an arc terrane complex with the western margin of North America. The arc material (allochthon) was thrust over cratonic carbonates along the Roberts Mountain thrust fault. Mountain building accompanied the Antler Orogeny, resulting in a high mountain range to the west. In addition to the folding and low-angle faulting associated with orogenic compression and mountain building, high-angle reverse and strike-slip faulting were widespread, forming important wrench fault systems. These high-angle faults were crucial in localizing the fluid flow responsible for gold deposition.
Mineral deposits have been found in all rock units exposed in the county. At least three periods of epigenetic ore mineral deposition have been recognized. The oldest are the iron deposits (Cretaceousor older?) in the Jackson Mountains. Contact metamorphic tungsten and vein deposits belong to the second period, developed in conjunction with the emplacement of Cretaceous and Tertiary intrusive rocks. The third, late Tertiary (?), depositional episode includes mercury, uranium and gold-silver deposits, including the Getchell and Sleeper gold deposits. Most Tertiary mineral deposits in northern Nevada are distributed linearly as a result of deep crustal controls including the Carlin and Battle Mountain trends.
Current gold producers in Humboldt County include the Getchell, Hycroft, Marigold, Lone Tree, and Twin Creeks mines.
Property Geology- The general geology of Winnemucca Mountain is shown on two publicly available maps. The oldest unit exposed on Winnemucca Mountain is the Upper Triassic Winnemucca Formation that underlies the upper elevations. These rocks are gray to brown calcareous shale; buff and gray, thin-bedded to massive carbonate rocks, buff to light brownish-gray calcareous sandstone, gray and brown shale and slate and some light brown feldspathic quartzite.
A younger, unnamed quartzite-mudstone formation is faulted against the Winnemucca Formation on the northwest side of Winnemucca Mountain by a normal fault of uncertain displacement. This unit consists of light brown or buff, thin to thick bedded, fine-grained, feldspathic quartzite which usually weathers dark brown; buff to light brown, medium bedded mudstone; and small amounts of light brown phyllitic shale.
The sedimentary rocks are cut by several small intrusive bodies. The largest is a Jurassic (?)-Cretaceous stock which intrudes Winnemucca Formation rocks on the southern side of Winnemucca Mountain, measuring approximately 6,600 by 9,075 feet. The intrusive contains no quartz but, in general, contains more plagioclase than mafic minerals so is compositionally a diorite. A small body of Tertiary volcanic rocks has been identified on the west side of Winnemucca Mountain.
Tertiary basalt and andesite unconformably overlie the older units on the north side of the mountain. These also include more silicic volcanic and sedimentary rocks.
An east-northeast trending breccia body measuring 1,320 by 5,000 feet in Triassic sedimentary rocks was mapped on the west side of Winnemucca mountain.The diatreme, containing gold mineralization now known as the Swordfish zone, is described by Metzler (1994) as an ellipsoid plug of brecciated, silicic dacite and rhyolite with sharp contacts. The breccia contains angular clasts of the older siltstone and granodiorite and is considered to be a Tertiary diatreme.
Three directions of major faulting are apparent, each of which appear confined to a particular area of Winnemucca Mountain. In the northern portion of the mountain are three parallel northeast trending faults, situated approximately 2,800 feet apart. Movement on these faults is primarily dip-slip although some minor strike-slip movement was also noted. On the southern flank of the mountain are two parallel north-northeast trending faults 5,000 feet apart. Northerly and northeasterly oriented faults dominate the central part of Winnemucca Mountain. Santa Fe geologists believed that the topography of Winnemucca Mountain was in part controlled by extensional range-front faults and the dominant structural trend, especially with respect to mineralizing events, is northeast.
Present Conditions and Plan of Exploration
Though there is a significant amount of historical exploration on the Winnemucca Mountain Property, none of the previous owners have established any substantial operations on the property. Further, the data set from past exploration is not complete. In March 2013 the Company contracted consultants to study the mineralization and known resources on the Winnemucca Mountain Property. Company consultants completed mapping and geochemical sampling of the 3,000 feet long Swordfish zone on the Property. Using this surface work along with available historical drill results data, 3D modeling of the gold/silver mineralization was completed. Based on the results of the initial work, Company consultants have recommended further exploration on the property including geophysics, core and reverse circulation (RC) drilling. Subject to available funds the Company plans further exploration of the property as recommended by the company consultants.
Index of Geologic Terms
INDEX
TERM
DEFINITION
Aplite
a light-colored fine-grained igneous rock
Basalt
basalt is a dark gray to black, dense to finely grained igneous rock that is the result of lava eruptions. Basalt flows are noneruptive, voluminous, and characterized by relatively low viscosity.
Breccias
a coarse-grained sedimentary rock made of sharp fragments of rock and stone cemented together by finer material. Breccia is produced by volcanic activity or erosion, including frost shattering.
Biotite
a black, dark brown, or green silicate mineral of the mica group.
Equigranular
a material composed chiefly of crystals of similar orders of magnitude to one another.
Hornfels
(a)
a fine-grained metamorphic rock composed of silicate minerals and formed through the action of heat and pressure on shale.
Igneous
(b)
describes rock formed under conditions of intense heat or produced by the solidification of volcanic magma on or below the Earth's surface.
Lithologic
(c)
the gross physical character of a rock or rock formation
Monzonite
a visibly crystalline, granular igneous rock composed chiefly of equal amounts of two feldspar minerals, plagioclase and orthoclase, and small amounts of a variety of colored minerals.
Plutonic
a mass of intrusive igneous rock that has solidified underground by the crystallization of magma.
Quartz
a common, hard, usually colorless, transparent crystalline mineral with colored varieties. Use: electronics, gems.
Silica
silicon dioxide found naturally in various crystalline and amorphous forms, e.g. quartz, opal, sand, flint, and agate. Use: manufacture of glass, abrasives, concrete.
ITEM 3.