Item 2. Properties
Description of the Underlying Properties
The underlying properties consist of Whiting’s net interests in certain oil and natural gas producing properties as of the date of the conveyance of the NPI to the Trust, which are located primarily in the Rocky Mountains, Mid-Continent, Permian Basin and Gulf Coast regions of the United States. The underlying properties include interests in 3,081 gross (368.0 net) producing oil and natural gas wells located in 166 fields on 206,716 gross (71,663 net) acres in 14 states. Whiting has acquired interests in these properties through various acquisitions that have occurred during its 28 year existence prior to the conveyance. For the year ended December 31, 2012, the net production attributable to the underlying properties was 1,204 MBOE or 3.3 MBOE/d. Whiting operates approximately 65% of the underlying properties based on the December 31, 2012 standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows.
Whiting’s interests in the oil and natural gas properties comprising the underlying properties require Whiting to bear its proportionate share, along with the other working interest owners, of the costs of development and operation of such properties. Many of the properties comprising the underlying properties are burdened by non-working interests owned by third parties and royalty interests retained by the owners of the land subject to the working interests. These landowners’ royalty interests typically entitle the landowner to receive at least 12.5% of the revenue derived from oil and natural gas production from wells drilled on the landowner’s land, without any deduction for drilling costs or other costs related to production of oil and natural gas. A working interest percentage represents a working interest owner’s proportionate ownership interest in a property in relation to all other working interest owners in that property, whereas a net revenue interest is a working interest owner’s percentage of production and revenue, after reducing such interest by the percentage of burdens on production such as royalties and overriding royalties.
The NPI entitles the Trust to receive 90% of the net proceeds from the sale of 9.11 MMBOE (8.20 MMBOE at the 90% NPI) of production from the underlying properties. As of December 31, 2012, on a cumulative accrual basis 6.10 MMBOE (74%) of the Trust’s total 8.20 MMBOE have been produced and sold, a cumulative 0.02 MMBOE have been divested, and the remaining balance is expected to be produced by June 30, 2015 based on the Trust’s year-end 2012 reserve report. However, the reserve report is based on the assumptions included therein. See “Risk Factors” in Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional discussion. The rate of future production cannot be predicted with certainty, and 9.11 MMBOE (8.20 MMBOE at the 90% NPI) may be produced before or after the currently projected date. The proved reserves attributable to the underlying properties include all proved reserves expected to be economically produced during the remaining full life of the properties, whereas the Trust is entitled to only receive 90% of the net proceeds from the sale of production of oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids attributable to the underlying properties during the term of the NPI.
Whiting’s interest in the underlying properties, after deducting the NPI, entitles it to 10% of the net proceeds from the sale of oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids production attributable to the underlying properties during the term of the NPI and all of the net proceeds thereafter. In addition, the Trust units retained by Whiting represent 15.8% of the Trust units outstanding. Whiting’s retained ownership interests in the underlying properties and its ownership of Trust units considered together entitle Whiting to receive approximately 24.2% of the net proceeds from the underlying properties during the term of the Trust, thereby providing Whiting an incentive to operate (or cause to be operated) the underlying properties in an efficient and cost-effective manner. In addition, Whiting has agreed to operate these properties as a reasonably prudent operator in the same manner that it would operate them if these properties were not burdened by the NPI, and Whiting has agreed to use commercially reasonable efforts to cause the other operators to operate these properties in the same manner.
In general, the producing wells to which the underlying properties relate have established production profiles. Based on the reserve report, annual production from the underlying properties is expected to decline at rates ranging from 9% to 11% annually from 2013 through the estimated June 30, 2015 NPI termination date. However, cash distributions to unitholders may decline at a faster rate than the rate of production due to fixed and semi-variable costs attributable to the underlying properties.
Reserves
As of December 31, 2012, all of the Trust’s oil and gas reserves are attributable to properties within the United States. The following table summarizes estimated proved reserves (developed and undeveloped) and the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows as of December 31, 2012 based on average fiscal-year prices (calculated as the unweighted arithmetic average of the first-day-of-the-month price for each month within the 12-month period ended December 31, 2012) attributable to the Trust based on the term of its NPI and the underlying properties on a full economic life basis (dollars in thousands):
(1) Standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows as of December 31, 2012. No provision for federal or state income taxes has been provided because taxable income is passed through to the unitholders of the Trust. Therefore, the standardized measure of the Trust and of the underlying properties is equal to their corresponding pre-tax PV 10% values.
(2) The Trust’s estimated proved reserves as of December 31, 2012 on a 90% basis were 2,110 MBOE, which reserve amount includes only those quantities of proved reserves in the underlying properties that are available to satisfy the interests of Trust unitholders and does not include the remaining 10% of proved reserves in the underlying properties to which only Whiting would be entitled.
(3) Oil includes natural gas liquids.
The above tables do not include any proved undeveloped reserve quantities as of December 31, 2012 because the underlying properties consist of mature producing properties that are essentially fully developed. Technical studies have not identified any drilling locations that meet the criteria of proved undeveloped reserves, nor has any future capital been committed for the development of proved undeveloped reserves on the underlying properties.
Proved reserves. Estimates of proved reserves are inherently imprecise and are continually subject to revision based on production history, results of additional exploration and development, price changes and other factors. Oil and gas reserve quantities and related discounted future net cash flows have been derived from oil and gas prices calculated using an average of the first-day-of-the month price for each month within the most recent 12 months, pursuant to current SEC and FASB guidelines. Assumptions used to estimate reserve quantities and related discounted future net cash flows also include costs for estimated future production expenditures required to produce the proved reserves as of December 31, 2012. Future net cash flows are discounted at an annual rate of 10%. There is no provision for federal income taxes with respect to the future net cash flows attributable to the underlying properties or to the NPI because future net revenues are not subject to taxation at the Trust level. See “Federal Income Tax Matters” in Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for more information.
A rollforward of changes in net proved reserves attributable to the Trust from January 1, 2010 to December 31, 2012, and the calculation of the standardized measure of the related discounted future net revenues are contained in the Supplemental Oil And Gas Reserve Information (Unaudited) in the notes to the financial statements of the Trust included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Whiting has not filed reserve estimates covering the underlying properties with any other federal authority or agency.
In 2012, revisions to previous estimates decreased proved reserves by a net amount of 17 MBOE. Included in these revisions were 0.2 Bcf of downward adjustments to natural gas, primarily due to lower gas prices of $3.07 per Mcf in reserve estimates at December 31, 2012, as compared to gas prices of $4.10 per Mcf at December 31, 2011 and 19 MBbl of upward adjustments to crude oil reserves, primarily due to increased estimates of future production resulting from recent workovers and well performance.
Preparation of reserves estimates. Whiting has advised the Trust that it maintains adequate and effective internal controls over the reserve estimation process as well as the underlying data upon which reserve estimates are based. The primary inputs to the reserve estimation process are comprised of technical information, financial data, ownership interests and production data. All field and reservoir technical information, which is updated annually, is assessed for validity when the reservoir engineers hold technical meetings with geoscientists, operations and land personnel to discuss field performance. Current revenue and expense information is obtained from Whiting’s accounting records, which are subject to their own set of internal controls over financial reporting. Internal controls over financial reporting are assessed for effectiveness annually using the criteria set forth in Internal Control - Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. All current financial data such as commodity prices, lease operating expenses, production taxes and field commodity price differentials are updated in the reserve database and then analyzed to ensure that they have been entered accurately and that all updates are complete. Whiting’s current ownership in mineral interests and well production data are also subject to the aforementioned internal controls over financial reporting, and they are incorporated in the reserve database as well and verified to ensure their accuracy and completeness. Once the reserve database has been entirely updated with current information, and all relevant technical support material has been assembled, the Trust’s independent engineering firm Cawley, Gillespie & Associates, Inc. (“CG&A”) meets with Whiting’s technical personnel in Whiting’s Denver and Midland offices to review field performance. Following these reviews the reserve database is furnished to CG&A so that they can prepare their independent reserve estimates and final report. Access to Whiting’s reserve database is restricted to specific members of the reservoir engineering department.
CG&A is a Texas Registered Engineering Firm. The primary contact at CG&A is Mr. Robert Ravnaas, President. Mr. Ravnaas is a State of Texas Licensed Professional Engineer. See Appendix 1 and Exhibit 99 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the Report of Cawley, Gillespie & Associates, Inc. and further information regarding the professional qualifications of Mr. Ravnaas.
Whiting’s Vice President of Reservoir Engineering and Acquisitions is responsible for overseeing the preparation of the reserves estimates. He has over 39 years of experience, the majority of which has involved reservoir engineering and reserve estimation, holds a Bachelor’s degree in Petroleum Engineering from the University of Wyoming, holds an MBA from the University of Denver and is a registered Professional Engineer. He has also served on the national Board of Directors of the Society of Petroleum Evaluation Engineers.
As noted above, the current reserve report projects that 9.11 MMBOE attributable to the NPI will be produced from the underlying properties by June 30, 2015, which differs from the August 31, 2015 projected date in the December 31, 2011 reserve report. This change is primarily due to increased estimates of future production resulting from recent workovers and the completion of wells drilled in 2012. The projected time to produce the remaining reserves
attributable to the Trust is therefore reduced. Numerous uncertainties are inherent in estimating reserve volumes and values, and the estimates are subject to change as additional information becomes available. The reserves actually recovered and the timing of production of the reserves may vary significantly from the estimates. In addition, the reserves and net revenues attributable to the NPI include only 90% of the reserves attributable to the underlying properties that are expected to be produced within the term of the NPI.
Producing Acreage and Well Counts
For the following data, “gross” refers to the total wells or acres in the oil and natural gas properties in which Whiting owns a working interest and “net” refers to gross wells or acres multiplied by the percentage working interest owned by Whiting and in turn attributable to the underlying properties. Although many of Whiting’s wells produce both oil and natural gas, a well is categorized as an oil well or a natural gas well based upon the ratio of oil to natural gas production.
The underlying properties are interests in developed properties located in oil and natural gas producing regions outlined in the chart below. The following is a summary of the number of fields and approximate acreage of these properties by region at December 31, 2012. Undeveloped acreage is not significant.
The following is a summary of the producing wells on the underlying properties as of December 31, 2012:
The following is a summary of the number of developmental wells drilled on the underlying properties during the last three years. A dry well is an exploratory, development or extension
well that proves to be incapable of producing either oil or gas in sufficient quantities to justify completion as an oil or gas well. A productive well is an exploratory, development or extension well that is not a dry well. The information should not be considered indicative of future performance, nor should it be assumed that there is necessarily any correlation between the number of productive wells drilled and quantities of reserves found. Whiting did not drill any exploratory wells on the underlying properties during the periods presented. There were three wells that were in the process of being drilled as of December 31, 2012.
Oil and Natural Gas Production
The table below shows total oil and gas production, average sales prices and average production costs attributable to underlying properties:
(1) Magnolia field was the only field that contained 15% or more of the total proved reserve volumes at December 31, 2012.
(2) Production costs reported above exclude from lease operating expenses ad valorem taxes of $1.1 million ($0.94/BOE), $1.1 million ($0.88/BOE) and $1.0 million ($0.78/BOE) for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively.
Producing wells the Trust has an interest in are part of 14 enhanced oil recovery waterflood projects, and aggregate production from such enhanced oil recovery fields averaged 687 BOE/d during 2012 or 21% of 2012 daily production from the underlying properties. For these areas, Whiting needs to use enhanced recovery techniques in order to maintain oil and gas production from these fields.
Delivery Commitments
Neither the Trust nor the underlying properties are committed to deliver fixed quantities of oil or gas in the future under existing contracts or agreements.
Major Producing Areas
The underlying properties are located in several major onshore producing basins in the continental United States. Whiting believes this broad distribution provides a buffer against regional trends that may negatively impact production or prices. Based on the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows at December 31, 2012, approximately 65% of these properties were operated by Whiting. Based on annual 2012 production attributable to the underlying properties, approximately 63% of production was crude oil and natural gas liquids and 37% of production was natural gas. These properties are located in mature fields and have established production profiles. However, production and distributions to the Trust will decline over time.
Mid-Continent Region. The underlying properties in the Mid-Continent region are located in Arkansas, Oklahoma, Kansas and Michigan. These properties include 56 fields of which Whiting operates wells in 25 of these fields. There are two significant fields located in Arkansas. The Magnolia Smackover Pool Unit, the largest single field in the underlying properties, produces from the Smackover Lime. The second Arkansas field is the Stephens-Smart field, producing from the Buckrange and Travis Peak. The major fields and areas in Oklahoma are located in the Anadarko Basin and include Putnam Field, Mocane-Laverne Gas Area, Sho-Vel-Tum Field and Nobscot Northwest Field, which primarily produce from the Oswego, Hunton, Penn, Morrow, Red Fork and Cottage Grove zones. Case Field is the major Michigan field in the region and produces from the Silurian Niagaran zone. For the year ended December 31, 2012, the net production attributable to the underlying properties in the region was 479.7 MBOE or 1.3 MBOE/d.
Rocky Mountains Region. The underlying properties in the Rocky Mountains region are located in two distinct areas. The first, from which crude oil is primarily produced, includes the Williston Basin in North Dakota and Montana as well as the Bighorn and Powder River Basins of Wyoming, while the second, from which natural gas is primarily produced, includes southwest Wyoming, Colorado and Utah. These properties include 61 fields, and Whiting operates wells in 31 of these fields. The major North Dakota fields in this region include the Bell Field and the Fryburg Field that produce from Tyler sandstone; the Whiskey Joe, Teddy Roosevelt, Sherwood and Davis Creek Fields that produce from various intervals in the
Madison; the Hiline Unit that produces from the Lodgepole; and the Big Dipper Field that produces from the Duperow and Red River zones. In Montana, the major fields include the Bainville Field and Palomino Fields that produce primarily from the Nisku zone, and the Oxbow Field that produces from the Nisku and Red River zones. The major Wyoming fields in this region include the Sage Creek Field in the Bighorn Basin that produces from the Tensleep and Madison zones and the Kiehl Field in the Powder River Basin, which produces from the Minnelusa formation and is under waterflood. The Ignacio Blanco Field is the major Colorado field in this region and produces from the Fruitland Coal zone. For the year ended December 31, 2012, the net production attributable to the underlying properties in the region was 425.3 MBOE or 1.2 MBOE/d.
Permian Basin Region. The Permian Basin Region is one of the major hydrocarbon producing provinces in the continental United States. The underlying properties in the Permian Basin region are located in Texas and New Mexico. These properties include 28 fields, and Whiting operates wells in 9 of these fields. The major fields in this region include the Iatan East Howard Field, which produces from the San Andres, Glorieta and Clearfork zones; the Fullerton Field, which is unitized and produces from the Clearfork zone; and the Patricia Field, which produces from the Sprayberry and Fusselman zones. For the year ended December 31, 2012, the net production attributable to the underlying properties in the region was 178.1 MBOE or 0.5 MBOE/d.
Gulf Coast Region. The underlying properties in the Gulf Coast region are located in Texas, Louisiana, Mississippi and Alabama. These properties include 21 onshore fields, and Whiting operates wells in one of these fields. The major field in this region is the Mestena Grande Field located in Texas, which produces from the Queen City zone. For the year ended December 31, 2012, the net production attributable to the underlying properties in the region was 120.8 MBOE or 0.3 MBOE/d.
Abandonment and Sale of Underlying Properties
Whiting has the right to abandon its interest in any well or property comprising a portion of the underlying properties if, in its opinion, such well or property ceases to produce or is not capable of producing in commercially paying quantities. To reduce or eliminate the potential conflict of interest between Whiting and the Trust in determining whether a well is capable of producing in commercially paying quantities, Whiting has agreed to operate the underlying properties as a reasonably prudent operator in the same manner that it would operate if these properties were not burdened by the NPI, and Whiting has agreed to use commercially reasonable efforts to cause the other operators to operate these properties in the same manner. For the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, there were 9, 8 and 20 gross wells, respectively, that were plugged and abandoned on the underlying properties, based on the determination that such wells were no longer economic to operate.
In addition, Whiting may, without the consent of the Trust unitholders, require the Trust to release the NPI associated with any lease that accounts for less than or equal to 0.25% of the
total production from the underlying properties in the prior 12 months and provided that the NPI covered by such releases cannot exceed, during any 12-month period, an aggregate fair market value to the Trust of $500,000. These releases will be made only in connection with a sale by Whiting of the relevant underlying properties and are conditioned upon the Trust receiving an amount equal to the fair value to the Trust of such NPI. Any net sales proceeds paid to the Trust are distributable to Trust unitholders in the quarter in which they are received. During 2012, Whiting had no divestitures of Trust properties. Whiting includes all such proceeds from Trust property divestitures in its NPI distributions to the Trust.
Title to Properties
The underlying properties are subject to certain burdens that are described in more detail below. To the extent that these burdens and obligations affect Whiting’s rights to production and the value of production from the underlying properties, they have been taken into account in calculating the Trust’s interests and in estimating the size and the value of the reserves attributable to the underlying properties.
Whiting’s interests in the oil and natural gas properties comprising the underlying properties are typically subject, in one degree or another, to one or more of the following:
•
royalties, overriding royalties and other burdens, express and implied, under oil and natural gas leases;
•
overriding royalties, production payments and similar interests and other burdens created by Whiting or its predecessors in title;
•
a variety of contractual obligations arising under operating agreements, farm-out agreements, production sales contracts and other agreements that may affect the underlying properties or their title;
•
liens that arise in the normal course of operations, such as those for unpaid taxes, statutory liens securing unpaid suppliers and contractors, and contractual liens under operating agreements that are not yet delinquent or, if delinquent, are being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings;
•
pooling, unitization and communitization agreements, declarations and orders;
•
easements, restrictions, rights-of-way and other matters that commonly affect property;
•
conventional rights of reassignment that obligate Whiting to reassign all or part of a property to a third party if Whiting intends to release or abandon such property; and
•
rights reserved to or vested in the appropriate governmental agency or authority to control or regulate the underlying properties and the NPI therein.
Whiting has informed the Trustee that Whiting believes the burdens and obligations affecting the properties comprising the underlying properties are conventional in the industry for similar properties. Whiting also has informed the Trustee that Whiting believes that the existing burdens and obligations do not, in the aggregate, materially interfere with the use of the underlying properties and do not materially adversely affect the value of the NPI.
Whiting acquired the underlying properties in various transactions that have occurred during its 28 year existence prior to the conveyance. At the time of its acquisitions of the underlying properties, Whiting undertook a title examination of these properties.
Net profits interests are non-operating, non-possessory interests carved out of the oil and natural gas leasehold estate, but some jurisdictions have not directly determined whether a NPI is a real or a personal property interest. Whiting has recorded the conveyance of the NPI in the relevant real property records of all applicable jurisdictions. Whiting has informed the Trustee that Whiting believes the delivery and recording of the conveyance creates a fully conveyed and vested property interest under the applicable state’s laws, but because there is no direct authority to this effect in some jurisdictions, this may not always be the result. Whiting has also informed the Trustee that Whiting believes that it is possible the NPI may not be treated as a real property interest under the laws of certain of the jurisdictions where the underlying properties are located. Whiting has also informed the Trustee that Whiting believes that, if, during the term of the Trust, Whiting becomes involved as a debtor in a bankruptcy proceeding, the NPI relating to the underlying properties in most, if not all, of the jurisdictions should be treated as a fully conveyed property interest. In such a proceeding, however, a determination could be made that the conveyance constitutes an executory contract and that the NPI is not a fully conveyed property interest under the laws of the applicable jurisdiction, and if such contract were not to be assumed in a bankruptcy proceeding involving Whiting, the Trust would be treated as an unsecured creditor of Whiting with respect to such NPI in the pending bankruptcy proceeding. Although no assurance can be given, Whiting has informed the Trustee that Whiting believes that the conveyance of the NPI relating to the underlying properties in most, if not all, of the jurisdictions of which these properties are located should not be subject to rejection in a bankruptcy proceeding as an executory contract.
Item 3.