ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
BEAR LODGE PROPERTY (Wyoming, USA)
The Bear Lodge Property contains two projects, the Bear Lodge REE Project and the Sundance Gold Project. The Bear Lodge REE Project consists of the Bull Hill Mine, inclusive of the Bull Hill and Whitetail Ridge deposits and the exploration targets of East Taylor and Carbon, all of which are located near Sundance, Wyoming. The Bear Lodge REE Project also includes the proposed hydrometallurgical plant site to be located on private property in Upton, Wyoming. Additional details on each of these areas are set forth below under the heading “Bear Lodge REE Project.” We hold our interest in the Bear Lodge Property through our wholly owned subsidiary, Rare Element Resources, Inc. (“RER, Inc.”).
The Bear Lodge Property is located in central Crook County, northeastern Wyoming, and is approximately 19 kilometers northwest of Sundance, Wyoming. The Bear Lodge Property is accessible by paved and well-maintained gravel roads. The Bear Lodge Property lies within the Black Hills National Forest along the crest of the northern part of the Bear Lodge Mountains, a narrow northwest-trending range. Physiographically, it is the northwest extension of the Black Hills in western South Dakota. The range is characterized by rolling grass and pine-covered mountains that reach elevations of 1,950 meters within the Bear Lodge Property. The mountains have moderate slopes covered by western yellow pine forest interspersed with dense thickets of brush. Narrow grassy meadows cover the upper reaches of seasonal drainages. The lowest point within the Bear Lodge Property is about 1,768 meters in elevation. The climate during the summer is warm and relatively dry, followed by cold winters with variable amounts of snow.
We control 100% of the mineral rights at the Bear Lodge Property, consisting of both unpatented mining claims and adjacent property owned in fee by the Company. We hold 499 unpatented mining claims located on land administered by the USFS and 634 acres (257 hectares) of owned property for a total of approximately 9,000 acres (3,642 hectares). The Bear Lodge Property is located within parts of Sections 5, 7 through 9, Sections 14 through 23 and Sections 26 through 35 in Township 52 North and Range 63 West, Sixth Principal Meridian, Crook County, Wyoming. All of the public property mining claims are unpatented, such that the paramount title of the land is held by the United States of America. Claim maintenance payments and related documents must be filed annually with the Wyoming State Office of the U.S. Bureau of Land Management (the “BLM”) and recorded with the Crook County, Wyoming Clerk and Recorder to keep the claims from terminating by operation of law, and the claims can be maintained in good standing so long as those requirements are met. All of our Mineral Resources are located on mining claims that we hold.
Our 100% interest in the 499 unpatented mining claims was, in part, acquired from Phelps Dodge Exploration Company (now a subsidiary of Freeport-McMoran Copper and Gold Inc. (“Freeport”) by way of a Mineral Lease and Option for Deed in 2000. An additional 404 claims were transferred from Newmont Mining Corporation (“Newmont”) to us in May, 2010. A portion of the Newmont transferred claims had been held in a joint venture between Newmont and the Company since 2006 until such joint venture was terminated in May 2010. A portion of the Newmont-transferred claims (approximately 327) are subject to a perpetual 0.5% production Net Smelter Return (“NSR”) royalty on minerals, except for rare earth minerals, which are excluded from any royalty obligation. The Newmont transferred claims are further subject to a right of first refusal granted to Newmont for any sale or
disposition of the claims to third parties by the Company. This right of first refusal applies only to parties or partners for non-rare earth extraction and terminates on May 14, 2015. In addition and in connection with the Newmont joint venture termination, the Company assumed all obligations of Newmont under a consulting agreement with Bronco Creek Exploration and Mining, Inc. (“Bronco Creek”) requiring the Company to pay as a finder’s fee, 3% of exploration expenditures made during each quarter until a cap of $500,000 has been paid. The claims covered by the Bronco Creek consulting agreement are outside of the rare earth deposits and are further subject to a 0.25% NSR royalty with a cap of $3,000,000. We located additional unpatented mining claims in 2011 and 2012, and now have a 100% interest in 499 total unpatented mining claims.
Some of our mining claims and a portion of a defined area of influence surrounding the claims were previously subject to a production royalty of 2% of NSR royalty payable to Freeport, but the royalty was purchased by us in March 2009. As a result of the agreements above, we hold an unencumbered rare-earth project including all 499 unpatented mining claims, free of royalties for rare-earth production.
The Company acquired 634 acres (257 hectares) in 2013 through a land exchange with the state of Wyoming, State Board of Land Commissioners within the Bear Lodge Project area and now owns that land in fee (the “Land Exchange Property”). The Wyoming Patent to the land issued by the State Board of Land Commissioners provides for a production royalty retained by the state of Wyoming for any minerals produced from the Land Exchange Property, at a rate to be determined by the parties commensurate with likely situated mineral royalties in the state of Wyoming at the time of production. Notwithstanding the above, the Land Exchange Property was acquired for ancillary facilities in support of the actual mining operation on adjacent land, and we do not intend at this time to extract minerals therefrom. The state of Wyoming Patent states that the mineral estate of the Land Exchange Property will revert to Wyoming state ownership at the conclusion of mining and termination of the Company’s mining permit.
Exploration has been carried out on the Bear Lodge Property since its discovery in 1949. In addition to Freeport, several mining companies have conducted exploration and drilling programs at or near the Bear Lodge Property since the discovery of mineralization. No mining or operations were conducted at the Bear Lodge Property by any of the prior owners.
Necessary infrastructure, such as housing, food and fuel is available in townships in close proximity to the Bear Lodge Property. Supplies can be delivered on both US Interstate Highway 90 and rail lines. A Burlington Northern rail transport line also runs through Moorcroft, 55 kilometers west of Sundance. The Gillette, Wyoming area, located approximately 89 kilometers to the west, has two coal-fired power plants and is currently a major logistics center for Powder River Basin activity and will serve as such for any development at the Bear Lodge Property. The current size of the Bear Lodge Property is sufficiently large to support a mining operation, with no foreseeable obstacles regarding expansion, subject to a favorable environmental permitting outcome.
We are not aware of any outstanding environmental liabilities, except for required reclamation work associated with our ongoing exploration and drilling activities. Our 2014 exploration plan is subject to USFS approval prior to commencement. Previous exploration activities were approved by both the USFS and the Wyoming Department of Environmental Quality. We have an approved reclamation plan and a posted surety bond to cover the required reclamation associated with our exploration and environmental related work.
Additional local, state and federal permits will be required for mining and processing operations should we decide to proceed to mine development and operations.
Bear Lodge Property - Location Map
Geological Setting
The Bear Lodge Mountains of northeastern Wyoming are composed primarily of the upper levels of a mineralized Tertiary alkaline-igneous complex that is a component of the Black Hills Uplift of western South Dakota and northeastern Wyoming. Tertiary alkaline intrusive bodies in the northern Black Hills occur along a N70-80W trending belt that extends from Bear Butte in South Dakota, through the Bear Lodge Mountains, to Devil’s Tower and Missouri Buttes in northeastern Wyoming. The Bear Lodge mining district is located in the Bear Lodge Mountains, near the western end of the northern Black Hills intrusive belt. The Bear Lodge Mountains expose and are underlain by multiple alkaline plugs, sills, and dikes intruded into Precambrian basement and Paleozoic and Mesozoic sedimentary rocks approximately 38 - 52 million years ago. Rare earth and gold mineralization are found in separate areas of the central crest and northern part of the Bear Lodge Mountains.
The Bear Lodge alkaline-igneous complex is a northwest-trending alkaline intrusive dome with dimensions of approximately 10 kilometers NW-SE by 6 kilometers NE-SW. The complex consists predominantly of multiple intrusions of phonolite, trachyte, and other alkaline igneous rocks, and a variety of associated breccias and diatremes.
Exploration and Drilling
Historical exploration in the Bear Lodge district, including REE exploration carried out by the Company from 2004 through 2012 is summarized in the Technical Report. Exploration activities carried out by the Company in 2013 were limited as the focus turned to development drilling at the Bull Hill and Whitetail Ridge deposits. These exploration activities included geochemical, geophysical, and mineralogical modeling of the district and individual deposits.
The 2013 drilling program was conducted in two phases. The first phase took place in June and July and involved infill drilling at the Whitetail Ridge deposit in order to upgrade a significant portion of the resource from the Inferred Mineral Resource category to the Indicated Mineral Resource category. During this phase, 14 core holes were drilled for a total of 11,697.5 feet (3,556.3 m). The second phase was designed to upgrade part of the high-
grade resource at the Bull Hill deposit to the Measured Mineral Resource category, develop a more detailed model of the REE grade distribution and provide additional material for bulk metallurgical testing. It consisted of 21 core holes totaling 10,650.5 ft (3,247.1 m) and 6 reverse circulation (“RC”) twin holes totaling 2,730 ft (832.3 m). The RC twin holes were drilled using a center return hammer with the objective of minimizing hole erosion and obtaining assay data directly correlative to that from the adjacent core holes.
Bear Lodge REE Project
The Bear Lodge REE Project comprises several REE resource areas within the Bear Lodge Property. REE mineralization at the Bear Lodge Property occurs in the northern lobe of the Bear Lodge alkaline-igneous complex. Most of the important REE deposits and occurrences within the Bear Lodge alkaline complex are contained within the Company’s block of unpatented lode mining claims. The REE deposits are located primarily in the vicinity of the Bull Hill deposit.
REE mineralized bodies occur as dikes, veins, and stockworks within the Bull Hill deposit area and Whitetail deposit area of the Bear Lodge REE Project. The mineralization includes a well-defined, near-surface, oxidized FMR zone; a near-surface, oxidized, but incompletely leached, carbonatite zone (oxide-carbonate zone); a transitional or mixed zone (oxide + sulfide); and a deeper sulfide-bearing carbonatite (a high-carbonate igneous rock) zone. The oxide-carbonate and transitional zones were referred to collectively as a “transitional zone” in some early previous news releases and technical reports. The mineralized zones were subsequently sub-classified, based on key characteristics of those zones. The FMR dikes and veins contain no matrix carbonates or sulfides. The sulfides are completely oxidized to hydrous iron oxides, and the non-REE bearing carbonate minerals (calcite and strontianite) show near-complete leaching from the zone, which ranges from the surface to depths of about 90 - 150 meters. The oxide-carbonate zone generally occurs beneath the oxide zone, but may breach the surface locally in select dikes. It is characterized by the near absence of sulfides, with the residual iron oxides formed during almost complete oxidation of the former sulfide minerals, and by variable amounts of relict matrix carbonates (calcite ± strontianite) and the REE mineral, ancylite (a hydrous Sr-REE carbonate).
Bull Hill Mine
The Bull Hill Mine contains the Mineral Resources reported in the Company’s technical report dated May 2, 2013 as amended June 26, 2013, as discussed below. The Bull Hill Mine Mineral Resources, for purposes of this Annual Report, comprises mineralized material from both the Bull Hill deposit and Whitetail Ridge deposit resource areas. The mineralized bodies occur as steeply-dipping FMR-carbonatite dike swarms and associated stockwork. Geological interpretation of results from the 2010 - 2013 drill programs indicates that the Bull Hill resource area is dominated by northwest-striking mineralized bodies in the southern two-thirds of the resource area, while the northern part of the resource area exhibits a transitional change in strike from dominantly northwesterly to almost due north. The dike swarm primarily intrudes heterolithic intrusive breccia of the Bull Hill diatreme and adjacent trachytic and phonolitic intrusive rocks. Carbonatite dikes at depth are interpreted to transition toward the surface into oxide-carbonate and FMR bodies. The mineralized structures range in size from veinlets to large dikes more than 30 meters in width. The Bull Hill deposit resource consists of one dominant dike set and several subsidiary dike sets in a swarm that has dimensions of more than 457 meters along strike and less than 100 meters in width. The dikes appear to pinch and swell in both strike and dip directions, and they can be traced in drill holes more than 305 meters down dip.
The Whitetail Ridge deposit occurs about 700 meters northwest of the Bull Hill deposit. The REE mineralization consists of northwest- and north-striking FMR dikes, and an FMR stockwork zone that is also elongated northeasterly, with dimensions of roughly 380 meters by 290 meters. The enveloping geophysical anomaly is larger and may indicate a broader distribution of REE mineralization beneath the extensive soil and colluvial cover. Drilling conducted in 2011 through 2013 indicates that much of the mineralization is confined within the volume of the Whitetail Ridge diatreme. Preliminary mineralogical studies by the Company indicate that the REE mineralization occurs in REE fluorocarbonates (bastnasite, parisite, and synchysite), cerianite [(Ce, Th)O2], and subordinate monazite (an REE-Th phosphate). The Whitetail Ridge deposit mineralization is enriched in HREE, relative to the Bull Hill deposit, and both are enriched in CREE.
Prefeasibility Study
The Company’s PFS dated April 13, 2012 for the Bull Hill Mine was authored principally by Roche Engineering Inc. (“Roche”), which undertook the process engineering and mine and mill capital and operating cost estimation for the project at that time. This PFS for the Bull Hill Mine was updated in a subsequent NI 43-101 technical report to reflect an increase in the Mineral Resource estimate, based on drilling and assay data that were unavailable when this PFS was prepared.
The report dated May 2, 2013 as amended June 26, 2013 is titled “Rare Element Resources Inc. Bear Lodge Project Canadian National Instrument 43-101 Technical Report on the Mineral Reserves and Resources and Development of the Bull Hill Mine” (the “Technical Report”) is available under our profile at www.sedar.com. The Technical Report was authored by Alan C. Noble, P.E. of Ore Reserves Engineering in Lakewood, Colorado and all sections of the Technical Report were prepared under his supervision. Mr. Noble is an independent Qualified Person, as defined by NI 43-101. Other Qualified Persons, as defined by NI 43-101, that participated in the preparation of the Technical Report are Jaye T. Pickarts, P.E., Chief Operating Officer for Rare Element, who contributed to the preparation of Chapters 13, 17, and 20; and Richard K. Larsen, Licensed Professional Geologist in the states of Wyoming, Utah, and Washington, and Registered Member of the Society for Mining, Metallurgy, and Exploration (SME), who contributed to the preparation of Chapters 6, 7, and 8 of the Technical Report, both under supervision of Mr. Noble, the primary author of the Technical Report.
In 2013, the Company worked on optimizing both the Bull Hill Mine plan and the mineral process methods. This has resulted in the Company undertaking an updated PFS to reflect these significant changes. The updated PFS is targeted for completion in the first half of 2014.
Mineral Resources Estimates
The Mineral Resources estimates were developed by Alan C. Noble, P.E. of Ore Reserves Engineering, an independent Qualified Person as defined by NI 43-101, and approved by the Rare Element management team.
Cautionary Note to U.S. Investors Concerning Estimates of Measured and Indicated Mineral Resources
This Annual Report uses the terms “Measured Mineral Resources” and “Indicated Mineral Resources.” We advise U.S. investors that while those terms are recognized and required by Canadian regulations, the SEC does not recognize them. U.S. investors are cautioned not to assume that any part or all of the mineral deposits in these categories will ever be converted into Mineral Reserves.
Cautionary Note to U.S. Investors Concerning Estimates of Inferred Mineral Resources
This Annual Report uses the term “Inferred Mineral Resources.” We advise U.S. investors that while this term is recognized and required by NI 43-101, the SEC does not recognize it. “Inferred Mineral Resources” have a great amount of uncertainty as to their existence, and great uncertainty as to their economic and legal feasibility. It cannot be assumed that all or any part of Inferred Mineral Resources will ever be upgraded to a higher category. In accordance with Canadian rules, estimates of Inferred Mineral Resources cannot form the basis of feasibility or other economic studies. U.S. investors are cautioned not to assume that part or all of the Inferred Mineral Resource exists or is economically or legally mineable.
The Mineral Resources estimates, effective March 17, 2014, justify further technical work, including drilling, metallurgical testing, and engineering studies. Considerable in-fill definition drilling is required to increase the confidence level of the mineral resource and upgrade more of the Inferred Resources to the Measured and Indicated Mineral Resources categories.
The major dike sets in all of the resource areas are accompanied by peripheral zones of lower-grade stockwork REE mineralization. The term “stockwork” refers to a body of rock cut by a network of small veins or dikes that contain the mineralization. REE grades in the stockwork zones generally range between about 0.5% and 2.5% REO.
Quality Assurance
The Mineral Resource estimate was completed by Mr. Alan C. Noble, P.E., principal engineer of Ore Reserves Engineering, and is based on geological interpretations supplied by the Company to Ore Reserves Engineering and subsequently modified by Ore Reserves Engineering. Mr. Noble is an independent Qualified Person for the purposes of NI 43-101 and verified the data disclosed here.
Rare Element’s field programs were carried out under the supervision of Dr. James G. Clark, formerly the Company’s Vice President of Exploration. Dr. Clark was a senior geologist and, subsequently, exploration supervisor for Hecla Mining Company during the late 1980’s and early 1990’s, and was responsible for that company’s exploration of Bull Hill and the Bear Lodge district, and its initial discovery of the Bull Hill resource area. A detailed QA/QC program was implemented for the 2007 through 2013 drill programs. The QA/QC program was organized by Dr. Jeffrey Jaacks. Drs. Jaacks and Clark verified the sampling procedures and QA/QC data delivered to Ore Reserves Engineering. They share the opinion that the data are of good quality and suitable for use in the Mineral Resource estimate.
Metallurgy and Mineralization
The Mineral Resource size is sensitive to an assumed cut-off grade and to metallurgical operating costs. The mineable pit includes the known Measured and Indicated (M&I) Mineral Resource as disclosed in the Technical Report and as modified by 2013 drilling results and is inclusive of the adjacent Whitetail Resource Area that extends towards the northwest. The current mine plan for the Bull Hill Mine will allow mining and processing for approximately 43 years.
A Physical Upgrade (PUG) Plant, located within the Project area, is designed to maximize concentration of the rare earth minerals and produce a mineral concentrate using a crushing, screening, and gravity separation process depending on the material type. The PUG process is designed to concentrate the rare earth-bearing fines and reduce the physical mass. There are areas of the mineable pit that contain variable amounts of weathered oxide material or oxide-carbonate (OxCa) mineralized material, and that contain variable grades of stockwork mineralization adjacent to the higher grade material. Each of these material types has a different upgrade percentage and mass reduction in the PUG circuit. The mining plan anticipates exposure to a distinct high-grade zone early in the project that will allow for preferential mining in the initial years of the mine. Low and mid-grade material will also be mined and stockpiled for future PUG processing.
Stockpiled material is planned to be PUG-processed up through year 43 when they are estimated to be depleted. Reclamation of mining-related facilities will occur during mine operations, where applicable, and upon completion of mining and stockpiling of materials. Other facilities, including the PUG, will be reclaimed as soon as the stockpiled materials are depleted.
The mineral concentrate produced at the PUG Plant is planned to be transported to a hydrometallurgical plant near Upton, Wyoming via covered trucks. The hydrometallurgical plant will process the mineral concentrate by acid leaching followed by additional chemical processing to remove impurities and precipitation to produce the final TREO product. The tailings produced from the process will be neutralized and stored in a double-lined tailings storage facility (TSF) adjacent to the hydrometallurgical plant.
The Company conducts metallurgical test work primarily at SGS Lakefield of Lakefield, Ontario, Canada.
Other Exploration Target Areas at the Bear Lodge REE Project
Discovery of high-grade REE mineralization at the East Taylor and Carbon target areas expanded the area of known REE mineralization outside of the Bull Hill and Whitetail Ridge deposits, and further delineate a “district” underlain by significant and potentially economic REE mineralization. The data indicates that the Bear Lodge REE Project area covers a crudely elliptical area that extends approximately 1,750 meters northwest-southeast by 1,300 meters northeast-southwest. The Carbon exploration target area is located northwest of the Bull Hill deposit, and the East Taylor target is located west of the Bull Hill deposit. Drill assay data from the East Taylor and Carbon exploration targets identify these areas as zones of HREE-enrichment relative to the Bull Hill deposit. All are enriched in CREEs. These two exploration target areas, along with the Whitetail Ridge deposit, are peripheral to the Bull Hill deposit. They are characterized both by high TREO grades, and by some of the highest HREE grades of any known North American deposit. They are particularly enriched in Eu, Tb, Dy and Y.
The discovery of these target areas indicates good potential for additional deposits of high-grade REE in the western half of the Bear Lodge REE Project, and those deposits appear particularly enriched in HREE.
Sundance Gold Project
The Sundance Gold Project is the second project located on our Bear Lodge Property. For a description of the property’s location, ownership, accessibility, infrastructure and climate, see the section heading “Item 2. Properties - Bear Lodge Property (Wyoming, USA)” above. There was no exploration work in 2013 for this project, and no exploration work is planned in 2014.
Mineral Resources Estimates
The Sundance Gold Project contains an NI 43-101 compliant Inferred Mineral Resource with an effective date of March 15, 2011, prepared by Ore Reserves Engineering of Lakewood, Colorado. Total Inferred Mineral Resources assuming a $1200/oz. gold price were 69,300,000 tonnes with a grade of 0.42/g/t Au. The Technical Report summarizes the project and is available on SEDAR at www.sedar.com.
ITEM 3.