Item 2. Properties
Our Corporate Offices
Tucson, Arizona
Our corporate offices, which are located at 5210 E. Williams Circle, Suite 700, Tucson, Arizona 85711, are leased from an affiliate, Atlas Precious Metals, Inc., who have a five-year lease with WC Partners, a Los Angeles, California-based company. We pay Atlas Precious Metals Inc. $9,500 per month for our space at this location. Our space is adequate for our purposes.
Exploration Properties and Claims
We may explore for various metals, including gold, silver, copper, lead, manganese, zinc, barite; however, our initial primary activities will focus on the exploration of silver. Our exploration rights were obtained through outright property acquisition, staking of federal mining claims on lands managed by the U.S. Bureau of Land Management, purchase options of privately held surface and mineral rights, purchase of unpatented claims on Bureau of Land Management managed federal lands and through exploration leases. All are held by International Silver without underlying royalty interests. Our properties are located in San Bernardino County, California, the Pioche mining district of Lincoln County, Nevada and Butte, Montana. These properties and the land tenure are further discussed in later sections as:
· The Prince Mine
· Montana Properties
· The Calico Silver Project
With respect to our properties for exploration purposes, our properties may or may not progress to the development stage. We are subject to competitive conditions for exploration properties since our competitors may be in a better operational and financial position to compete against us for desirable properties. Additionally, there are material issues regarding whether we do or do not insure our properties.
The Pioche Mining District, Lincoln County, Nevada
Introduction:
Our principal area of interest is the Pioche District of Lincoln County, Nevada. We believe that this District represents a unique opportunity in North American mining, in that, we have secured control of a large portion of a very unique silver district and plan to continue to expand our holdings in this area. For the next few years, we will focus our attention to this district, to completing the acquisition of the Prince Mine, which we have under a lease with a purchase option. The district is of a size that may give many years of profitable commercial operations.
History:
Silver was discovered on the eastern slope of the Pioche Mountains in 1869 and exploited for high grade, bonanza silver ore until the 1930's when the known fissures were fundamentally depleted. This ore occurred in brecciated fissure veins hosted in the Cambrian age Prospect Mountain Quartzite. This type of ore was found near the town of Pioche mostly in the Treasure Hill area. The veins ranged in thickness from one to four feet, with swells up to ten feet, but the three most productive extended for several thousand feet in strike and to a depth of 1200 feet. The silver ore was mostly oxidized and contained lead as cerussite, some galena, with silver chloride and argentite. Supergene processes apparently removed the zinc from the non-reactive siliceous rock which was likely present in the original sulfides.
Just to the west of the bonanza silver vein area and extending from it into exposures of stratigraphically higher limestones and shales, bedded replacement lead/zinc/silver ore was discovered. The lower part of the Combined Metals Member of the Pioche Shale has been the most productive sequence for non-oxidized sulfide replacements. This unit is the first of the beds enclosed in shales directly above the Cambrian age, Prospect Mountain Quartzite. An east-west structural zone termed the Caselton Channel was found to host replacement mineralization for a strike of over 10,000 feet. The ore zone ranged in thickness from 4 to 40 feet, averaged six feet and had a width of 100 to 1800 feet. The grade of the 3.2 million tons of sulfide ore mined between 1924 and 1959 averaged 4.8 ounces of silver, 0.044 ounces per ton gold, 4.5% lead and 12% zinc. The ore consisted primarily of sphalerite, galena and pyrite in a gangue of manganiferous siderite and minor quartz. Oxidized replacements exist above the sulfide zone but were only partially mined mostly due to smelting issues.
Geology:
The Pioche Mining District encompasses roughly the northern half of the Pioche Hills but extends into the Highland Range to the west. The Pioche Hills are a relatively minor mountain range that follows a northwest trend between Meadow and Lake Valleys. This trend is in marked contrast to the ranges both east and west which align themselves north-south. The Pioche Hills are largely composed of Cambrian sedimentary rocks but these are obscured on the southeast flank where overlain by Tertiary volcanic flow rocks. The mineralized area is entirely within Paleozoic sediments. The principal formations in ascending order are the Prospect Mountain Quartzite, Pioche Shale, Lyndon Limestone, Chisholm Shale and Highland Peak Limestone.
The structural setting of the Pioche Hills has been interpreted mostly in terms of regional thrust faulting. The exposed Paleozoic sedimentary rocks were apparently overridden by a regional thrust plate. This plate termed the Highland thrust consists of a stacked sequence of Upper Cambrian sediments similar to the lower plate but may include some Tertiary volcanic rocks as well. The Highland Peak Formation and a stratigraphic section down to the lower part of the Lyndon Limestone were displaced eastward along the thrust structures. Some flat thrust faults tend to follow shale beds and cut out thicknesses of rock units with little obvious physical expression.
The early Tertiary (and possibly similar pre-Mesozoic?) structures have in turn been displaced by subsequent events. The most traceable set of faults are related to Tertiary extensional basin and range faulting. There appears to be a strike slip component to these major features. They tend to strike north and dip away from the range. Further, the Cambrian rocks are offset by a series of closely spaced, northeast trending normal faults which drop the strata deeper toward the center of the range.
The Prince Mine was an underground mine which was developed on the very large sulfide replacement "channels" or structural zones containing silver, zinc, lead, gold and manganese with commercial ore grades, but with varying grade in each channel. The three principle and most significant channels are the Caselton Channel, the Prince Channel and the Pan American Channel. These channels are known to extend for several miles in length and range from 100 feet to as much as 1,800 feet wide with ore up to 90 feet thick. Typically, they historically grade d 2.3 ounces of silver and 0.02 ounces of gold per ton, 2.5% lead, 3.5% zinc and 12% manganese dioxide.
While the initial operations of the Prince Mine focused on sulfide replacement ore bodies in limestone with much higher grades, massive oxidized mineralization is believed to remain which has only been minimally mined. As technology has advanced, significant opportunity remains in using the very low cost acid leaching of oxidized zinc, followed by solvent extraction and electro-winning to produce special high grade zinc cathode which can be sold at a premium. In the solvent extraction process, sulfuric acid is regenerated for re-use which minimizes costs of operation. These methods of processing oxide ores will be evaluated in conjunction with our exploration activities in the district.
Property Description, Geology and History
The Prince Mine
An exploration lease with an option to acquire the Prince Mine property was entered into by International Silver on November 6, 2010 as further discussed in Note D. The initial land position held under the lease/option consists of twelve patented lode mining claims held in fee simple title by Prince Mine LLC. These claims comprise 227 acres of surface and mineral rights. Should the purchase rights be exercised the property title will transfer to International Silver without a retained royalty. Subsequent to the exercise of the lease, International Silver acquired through Federal mining law by location, an additional 495 acres in 25 lode mining claims on BLM managed lands next to the patented leased land. The lease / option requires annual payments to the lessor. The Federal lode mining claims require annual maintenance fee payments to the U.S. BLM.
The geology of the Prince Mine is characterized by substantial faulting and displacement of the silver - lead - zinc - gold carbonate replacement type of mineralization . The Prince member of the Lyndon formation has been uplifted along a northwest trending mineralized structure bringing a large block of oxidized mineralization very near the surface, to within ten feet in some areas. International Silver sampling and analysis indicates that this mineralizing structure likely continues past all known workings in the mine and past any drilling, and most likely intersects the Caselton Channel to the North. Our exploration target is an open pit ore body hosting as much as 15 million tons of mineralized material in these carbonate replacement horizons.
The Prince Mine is a n historic underground silver producer which reportedly contains over 2 million tons of historically measured in-situ ore grade mineralization accessible through existing workings. Its main shaft is 850 feet deep and has several levels of drifts extending outward. It is located 1.5 miles from the Caselton Concentrator, a 1,500-ton per day minerals processing plant. Our immediate focus will be to explore the mineralized zone through geochemical and geophysical surveys and surface drilling. Due to its proximity to the surface, the drill holes will be relatively shallow, 1000 feet or less . At the same time, access to underground workings will be cleaned and repaired to allow inspection and verification sampling. The program hopes to delineate mineralization amenable to mining but there are presently no known mineable reserves established for the mine property.
Property Location and Access
The International Silver Inc. Pioche Mining District property is located near the town of Pioche, the county seat of Lincoln County Nevada U.S.A. State Highway 93 serves Pioche. The Prince Mine is about two miles southwest of the town. The mine is accessible by paved State Road 320 which connects to Highway 93. The following maps further illustrate the access and relative positions of the Pioche District properties.
Butte District Properties, Silver Bow County Montana
International Silver Inc. began work to acquire mineral properties in the Butte district in 2008. In 2011 the Company was successful in securing a leasehold interest on a large group of former producing silver mines and mineral claims once held by the Anaconda Company. These properties are believed to still contain a large resource of un-mined silver - zinc and silver - copper mineralization. Inactive mines now held by the Company include the Badger State, the Lexington, the Alice, the Diamond, the Speculator and the High Ore. It is the intent of the Company to evaluate the feasibility of renewed mining of the historic resources in several of these mines and to conduct exploration for porphyry copper - silver in the district.
History
Mining in the district first began with gold and silver, then copper. In 1910 the Anaconda Company was formed to consolidate the district under singular ownership and to mine and process the rich ores found there. The properties held by the Company were last operated by the Anaconda Company in 1967.
District Geology
The Butte porphyry copper center is in the south western part of a regional composite intrusive complex termed the Boulder batholith. The batholith as exposed is about 70 miles long by 35 miles wide and trends in a northeastward direction toward Helena MT. The intrusive complex is composed of dozens of chemically distinct plutons ranging in age from middle to late Cretaceous. The batholith is fault bounded to the southeast with right lateral shears. The northwest side also has wrench fault boundaries but also in places appears to be largely concordant with late Cretaceous age volcanics.
In the vicinity of Butte the dominant rock type is 70 to 72 m.y. old Butte Quartz Monzonite. Compositionally, this intrusive may also be termed a hornblende - biotite granodiorite. It in turn has been intruded by quartz porphyry dikes which are differentiates from a larger copper bearing porphyry intrusive at depth and now exposed as an up thrown fault block in the Montana Resources Continental Pit. Younger 48 m.y. volcanics and rhyolitic intrusives cut or unconformably overlie the older intrusives locally, particularly to the west of Butte.
All of the mineralization mined in the central, north and west parts of the district has been found in vein zones created by structural fracturing in the wall rock. The most economically important of these vein zones were termed the Anaconda System. These veins trend generally east-west, with an arc like curvature, were very wide and contained high grade copper ores mostly as chalcocite with native silver. Dips were sinuous but were all southward below the 2800 foot level. Connecting the Anaconda veins, a second somewhat thinner, northwest set of cross cutting veins were developed and mined. These were termed the Blue System.
As the structurally controlled vein systems extended across the district, mineralogic zoning patterns were recognized. A copper rich Central Zone on Butte Hill gave way to an intermediate zone in a rough, semi-circular map pattern which contained mixed zinc and copper mineralization. This zone extended outward and graded into a peripheral zone characterized by manganese, zinc and silver veining. The International Silver Inc. lands are located within all three mineralogic zones.
Property Location and Access.
The land position consists of approximately 380 acres of surface rights and 1000 acres of mineral rights in the Butte District, Silver Bow County Montana.
Property Description, Geology, History.
Alice Mine
Rainbow & Rising Star Veins
The Alice mine is in the outer part of the intermediate mineralogic zone at Butte and was developed on a group of main stage silver zinc veins containing manganese. This mine was first opened in 1886 when rich shallow ores of native silver and silver chloride were mined. The mine is accessed through a tunnel level with track for haulage and two points of ingress and egress. A 400 ‘ deep ventilation shaft is also in place as is a cross cut on the 400 foot level to the Lexington mine shaft. The workings have been maintained and are in relatively good condition.
The vein zone strikes east - west and dips 60 - 80 degrees south. The width varies as numerous veins come together and diverge, with individual veins averaging from 14 feet to 90 feet combining to form a vein zone up to 187 feet wide. Some of the narrower higher grade veins have been mined by historic operations to about the 500 foot level. The water table is below 800 feet.
Oxidized minerals with silver with manganese extend from surface in this wide vein zone down to about 100 feet where they transition into a sulfide zone containing argentite, sphalerite and galena in quartz veins with rhodonite and rhodochrosite. In 1986, an independent engineering firm, Robertson Research International Ltd, calculated a near surface geologic resource to a depth of 75 feet as having 1,418,000 tons with an average grade of 4.68 ounce per ton silver and 0.018 ounce per ton gold.
An estimate of the sulfide zone geologic resource from the 100 foot level to the 1000 foot level was made by Tatman and Potresou in1990, for New Butte Mining Inc. based on Anaconda “Green Book Reserve Reports” and underground drilling. This estimate by two reputable professionals quotes a potential resource of 8,776,736 tons averaging 4.08 ounces per ton silver, 0.024 ounces per ton gold, 4.24 % zinc and 1.31% lead.
These estimates are presented as historic data only as mine planning and verification studies have not yet even been initiated.
Lexington Mine
Skyrme, State, Gaul, Grey Rock and Blue Wing veins
The Lexington Mine adjoins and connects on the south with the Alice Mine area development. A good three compartment shaft extends through the tunnel level to 2600 feet but is flooded at about the 1000 level. The shaft is principally useful for ventilation but could be used for hoisting materials between levels. It has a good steel head frame but is not suited for large tonnage production hoisting. The shaft was last operated by the Anaconda Company in 1959. Other parts of the mine including stopes in the Grey Rock Vein on the 400 haulage level were operated in 1990 by New Butte Mining Inc.
The Lexington is developed on the inside edge of the intermediate mineralogic zone on several groups of relatively narrow silver veins and sulfide vein breccias. The veins widen with depth, averaging 4.2 feet to the 600 level after which they increase to 7.6 feet to the 2600 foot level. The historic resource tabulated on the books of the Anaconda Company in developed and probable categories with a 4.6% zinc cutoff grade, are cited as 1,702,864 tons grading 3.57 ounces per ton silver and 8.31% zinc.
Another 1,536,234 tons grading 2.59 ounce per ton silver with 8.27% zinc are listed as “future reserve blocks” by Anaconda. About half of this tonnage is listed above the level of mine flooding. The Company lists no current ore reserves for the property.
Badger State Mine
State, Emily, Badger, Snow Ball and South Split of Rainbow veins
The Badger State Mine was operated by the Anaconda Company from 1960 to 1967 as a 1500 tpd block cave silver - zinc mine. The mine has a substantial steel head frame and large steel frame hoist and compressor building. The three compartment shaft extends downward to the 3800 level. It is presently bulkheaded at the surface and will require repairs for renewed use.
The Badger is located north of the Berkeley Pit and is in the intermediate silver-zinc zone but grades into the periphery of the central copper zone at depth. A substantial tonnage of silver - zinc ore grade mineralization is believed to remain un-mined as plans for re-opening by Anaconda are referenced in company files.
High Ore and Diamond Bell Mines
Syndicate, Bell, Speculator and High Ore veins
The Diamond is located near the north high wall of the Berkeley Pit and the Company’s mineral rights extend southerly into the pit area.
The Diamond has a steel production head frame but no hoisting facilities. The shaft is bulkheaded for safety at the surface and was last used for ventilation in 1973. The High Ore Mine connected with the Diamond but the shaft was caved by Anaconda as the area became part of the Berkeley open pit.
The mines are former high grade copper- silver producers in the central mineralogic zone. Ore was found in structurally controlled chalcocite - bornite veins which had lower grade alteration envelopes surrounding them. These veins were mined to several thousand feet of depth. Presently there are no identified mineral resources remaining in the mines, however the Company believes that the exploration potential for lesser grade disseminated copper is extremely good.
Calico Silver Project
The Calico Silver Project is an exploration project with a substantial land position in an area of known bulk mineable disseminated silver-barite mineralization. A wide and elongated zone of epithermal silver-barite veining which is exposed on the property will be the area initially investigated.
Geology and History
The project is in the Calico Mining District of Southern California. The district has been the site of historic underground mining of bonanza grade silver deposits since the 1880’s and more recently has attracted notice for the discovery of large tonnage disseminated silver deposits. The mineralization of the Calico Silver Project occurs in a series of parallel veins up to 50 feet wide in a zone several hundred feet wide and primarily visible at the surface. The veins strike NW/SE, dip steeply to almost vertical, and are traceable for 1.25 miles on the Leviathon claims. Country rock is tertiary volcanics in related pyroclastic and sedimentary formations. The Leviathon vein system is located northeast of the Calico Fault. The Lilly claims are southwest of the fault in argillically altered tuffaceous sediments of the Barstow formation. These claims lie directly between two known disseminated silver deposits, the Waterloo and Langtry but have not been adequately tested by exploration drilling.
Over 100,000 tons of barite ore wa s mined in the early 1950’s on the claims by open pit methods in a large cut known as the Leviathon Mine. Approximately 50,000 tons of drilling mud grade barite was shipped. Previous to this, all workings on the property were for underground silver mining in the Silverado Mine and the Silver Bow Mine and is believed to have occur red in the late 1890’s. Records are sketchy and no reliable information on these two mines has been located. The above information pertaining to mining only depicts historical information and has no significance whatsoever whether mineable mineral deposits presently exist on the mining claims. The claims are held for exploration only as no mineable mineral reserves have as yet been discovered or developed.
Property Description
The Calico Silver Property consists of 60 unpatented Federal lode mining claims, which were acquired through staking and filing Notices of Location with the Bureau of Land Management. The Claims are grouped as Leviathon, Silverado and Lilly groups that were located in September and October 2007, at which time the Bureau of Land Management approved the Company’s Notice of Location for Lode Mining Claims accepting that we have located and have the right to the unpatented mining claims. Each claim generally consists of 20. 66 acres for a total of 1,30 0 acres. Annual maintenance fees of $140 per claim are required to be paid to the BLM each August in order to maintain the rights to explore and possibly mine on the federal land.
Property Location and Access
The Calico Silver Project, is located approximately 15 miles northeast of the town of Barstow, California, 145 miles northeast of Los Angeles. The small communities of Dagget and Yermo, California lie about six miles east from Barstow on Interstate 15 and taking the Meridian Road exit, then east one mile on Frontage Road to the Yermo cutoff, then 3.2 miles north on Merdian Road to the paved portion of the Randberg-Barstow Road, then two miles north to a dirt road which leads eastward onto the claims. Access to the property is accessible year round. There are no weather related conditions preventing access to the property on a year round basis. We know of no overriding environmental or archeological issues related to this property although it is located within the Mohave Desert Conservation Area and will be held to the applicable environmental compliance standards associated with that area. The property is an exploration stage project without reserves and the sources for power and water, should exploration be successful, have yet to be determined.
Item 3.