ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
BEAR LODGE PROPERTY (WYOMING, USA)
The Bear Lodge Property contains two projects, the Bear Lodge REE Project and the Sundance Gold Project. The Bear Lodge REE Project consists of the Bull Hill Mine, inclusive of the Bull Hill and Whitetail Ridge deposits and the exploration targets of East Taylor and Carbon, all of which are located near Sundance, Wyoming. The Bear Lodge REE Project also includes the proposed hydrometallurgical plant site to be located on private property in Upton, Wyoming that the Company currently has an option to purchase. Additional details on each of these areas are set forth below under the heading “Bear Lodge REE Project” and in the Technical Report (as defined below). We hold our interest in the Bear Lodge Property through our indirect wholly owned subsidiary, Rare Element Resources, Inc., a Wyoming corporation.
The Bear Lodge Property is located in central Crook County, northeast Wyoming, and is approximately 19 kilometers northwest of Sundance, Wyoming. The Bear Lodge Property is accessible by paved and well-maintained gravel roads. The Bear Lodge Property lies within the Black Hills National Forest along the crest of the northern part of the Bear Lodge Mountains, a narrow northwest-trending range. Physiographically, it is the northwest extension of the Black Hills in western South Dakota and is characterized by rolling grass and pine-covered mountains that reach elevations of 1,950 meters within the Bear Lodge Property. The mountains have moderate
slopes covered by western yellow pine forest interspersed with dense thickets of brush. Narrow grassy meadows cover the upper reaches of seasonal drainages. The lowest point within the Bear Lodge Property is about 1,768 meters in elevation. The climate during the summer is warm and relatively dry, followed by cold winters with variable amounts of snow.
We control 100% of the mineral rights at the Bear Lodge Property, consisting of unpatented mining claims and a right of repurchase on adjacent private land. We hold 499 unpatented mining claims located on land administered by the USFS. The Bear Lodge Property is located within parts of Sections 5, 7 through 9, Sections 14 through 23 and Sections 26 through 35 in Township 52 North and Range 63 West, Sixth Principal Meridian, Crook County, Wyoming. All of the public property mining claims are unpatented, such that the paramount title to the land is held by the United States of America. To be valid, an unpatented mining claim must contain a discovery of valuable mineral deposit. In addition, claim maintenance payments must be timely paid on an annual basis and related documents must be filed annually with the Wyoming State Office of the BLM and recorded with the Crook County, Wyoming Clerk and Recorder to keep the claims from terminating by operation of law, and the claims can be maintained in good standing so long as those requirements are met. All of our Mineral Resources are located on mining claims that we hold.
On October 20, 2016, the Company and Whitelaw Creek LLC, a Wyoming limited liability company (“Whitelaw Creek”), executed an asset purchase agreement (the “Asset Purchase Agreement”). On October 26, 2016, the Company and Whitelaw Creek closed the transactions contemplated by the Asset Purchase Agreement, pursuant to which the Company sold to Whitelaw Creek for approximately $600 in cash approximately 640 acres of non-core real property located in Crook County, Wyoming, that is under consideration for a stockpile facility for the Bear Lodge REE Project (the “Land Sale”). The Company has the right to repurchase the land (i) for $900 within three years following the Land Sale or (ii) for $1,000 after the third anniversary following the Land Sale but on or before the fifth anniversary of the Land Sale, in each case subject to certain adjustments (the “Repurchase Price”). Payment of the Repurchase Price may be made, at Whitelaw Creek’s option, in the form of cash, common shares of the Company, or a combination of cash and common shares of the Company.
Our 100% interest in the 499 unpatented mining claims was, in part, acquired from Phelps Dodge Exploration Company (now a subsidiary of Freeport-McMoRan Copper Inc. (“Freeport”)) by way of a Mineral Lease and Option for Deed in 2000, and 404 claims were transferred from Newmont Mining Corporation (“Newmont”) to us in May 2010. A portion of the Newmont-transferred claims had been held in a joint venture between Newmont and the Company since 2006 until such joint venture was terminated in May 2010. A portion of the Newmont-transferred claims (i.e. approximately 327 claims) are subject to a perpetual 0.5% production Net Smelter Return (“NSR”) royalty on minerals except for rare earth minerals, which are excluded from any royalty obligation. In addition, and in connection with the Newmont joint venture termination, we assumed all obligations of Newmont under a consulting agreement with Bronco Creek Exploration and Mining, Inc. (“Bronco Creek”) requiring us to pay as a finder’s fee, 3% of exploration expenditures made during each quarter until a cap of $500 has been paid. The claims covered by the Bronco Creek consulting agreement, which are located outside of the rare earth deposits, are further subject to a 0.25% NSR royalty with a cap of $3,000. We located additional unpatented mining claims in 2011 and 2012, and now have a 100% interest in 499 total unpatented mining claims.
Some of our mining claims and a portion of a defined area of influence surrounding the claims were previously subject to a production royalty of 2% of NSR royalty payable to Freeport, but the Company purchased the royalty in March 2009. As a result of the agreements above, we hold an unencumbered rare earth project, including all 499 unpatented mining claims, free of third-party royalties for rare earth production.
Exploration has been carried out on the Bear Lodge Property since 1949. In addition to Freeport, several mining companies have conducted exploration and drilling programs at or near the Bear Lodge Property since the discovery of mineralization. No mining or operations were conducted at the Bear Lodge Property by any of the prior owners.
Necessary infrastructure, such as housing, food and fuel is available in communities in close proximity to the Bear Lodge Property. Supplies can be delivered on both U.S. Interstate Highway 90 and rail lines. A Burlington Northern rail transport line also runs through Moorcroft, 55 kilometers west of Sundance, and through Upton, the site of the proposed hydrometallurgical plant, 64 kilometers south of Sundance. The Gillette, Wyoming area, located approximately 89 kilometers to the west, has two coal-fired power plants and is currently a major logistics center for Powder River Basin coal mining activity and will serve as such for any development at the Bear Lodge
Property. The current size of the Bear Lodge Property is sufficiently large to support a mining operation, with no foreseeable obstacles regarding expansion, subject to a favorable outcome regarding permitting.
We are not aware of any outstanding environmental liabilities associated with the Bear Lodge Property, except for required reclamation work associated with our exploration and drilling activities. Previous exploration activities were approved by both the USFS and the Wyoming Department of Environmental Quality. We have an approved reclamation plan and a posted surety bond to cover the required reclamation.
Additional local, state and federal permits will be required for exploration, mining, beneficiation and processing operations, if we decide to proceed with further exploration or mine development and operations.
Bear Lodge Property - Location Map
Geological Setting
The Bear Lodge Mountains of northeast Wyoming are composed primarily of the upper levels of a mineralized tertiary alkaline-igneous complex that is a component of the Black Hills Uplift of western South Dakota and northeast Wyoming. Tertiary alkaline intrusive bodies in the northern Black Hills occur along a N70-80W trending belt that extends from Bear Butte in South Dakota, through the Bear Lodge Mountains, to Devil’s Tower and Missouri Buttes in northeast Wyoming. The Bear Lodge mining district is in the Bear Lodge Mountains, near the western end of the northern Black Hills intrusive belt. The Bear Lodge Mountains expose and are underlain by multiple alkaline plugs, sills, and dikes and intruded into Precambrian basement and Paleozoic and Mesozoic sedimentary rocks approximately 38-52 million years ago. Rare earth and gold mineralization are found in separate areas of the central crest and northern part of the Bear Lodge Mountains.
The Bear Lodge alkaline-igneous complex is a northwest-trending alkaline intrusive dome with dimensions of approximately 10 kilometers NW-SE by 6 kilometers NE-SW. The complex consists predominantly of multiple intrusions of phonolite, trachyte, and other alkaline igneous rocks, and a variety of associated breccias and diatremes.
Exploration and Drilling
Historical exploration in the Bear Lodge district, including REE exploration carried out by the Company from 2004 through 2012, is summarized in the Technical Report. Exploration activities carried out by the Company in 2013 through 2015 were limited as the focus turned to development drilling at the Bull Hill and Whitetail Ridge deposits. These exploration activities included geochemical, geophysical, geological and mineralogical modeling of the district and individual deposits.
The 2013 drilling program was conducted in two phases. The first phase took place in June and July and involved infill drilling at the Whitetail Ridge deposit in order to upgrade a significant portion of the resource from the Inferred Mineral Resource category to the Indicated Mineral Resource category. During this phase, 14 core holes were drilled for a total of 3,556.3 meters (11,697.5 feet). The second phase was designed to upgrade part of the high-grade resource at the Bull Hill deposit to the Measured Mineral Resource category, develop a more detailed model of the REE grade distribution and provide additional material for bulk metallurgical testing. It consisted of 21 core holes totaling 3,247.1 meters (10,650.5 feet) and six reverse circulation (“RC”) twin holes totaling 832.3 meters (2,730 feet). The RC twin holes were drilled using a center return hammer with the objective of minimizing hole erosion and obtaining assay data directly correlative to that from the adjacent core holes.
The 2014 program consisted of the excavation of a test trench along the southwestern flank of Bull Hill in August. The main mineralized zone (Bull Hill Main) was exposed and exploited for the collection of geological information including dike dimension and structural continuity, grade variation, ore and gangue mineralogy, pit slope stability engineering and confirmation of parameters utilized in ore resource calculations. The program netted 907 tonnes (1,000 tons) of material that is stored for future metallurgical work. Bulk samples were taken from the material average 10.1% TREO. Additional crosscut excavation provided 45 tonnes (50 tons) of material to determine physical upgrading potential of lower grades.
The 2015 condemnation program consisted of six rotary holes, and a total of 3,000 feet was drilled in September of 2015 to complete a program that was halted by the USFS in 2012 due to an archeological discovery. The program evaluated the subsurface for carbonatite-hosted REE mineralization and followed up on gold mineralization discovered in 2010 within and adjacent to the proposed physical upgrade (“PUG”) site. Based on results from the 2015 condemnation program, the PUG area is considered void of economic mineralization.
No drilling was performed in 2016 or 2017.
Bear Lodge REE Project
The Bear Lodge REE Project comprises several REE resource areas within the Bear Lodge Property. REE mineralization at the Bear Lodge Property occurs in the central lobe of the Bear Lodge alkaline-igneous complex. Most of the important identified REE deposits and occurrences within the Bear Lodge alkaline complex are contained within the Company’s block of unpatented lode mining claims. The REE deposits are located primarily in the vicinity of the Bull Hill deposit.
REE mineralized bodies occur as dikes, veins, and stockworks within the Bull Hill and Whitetail deposit areas of the Bear Lodge Property. The mineralization includes a well-defined, near-surface, oxidized FMR zone; a near-surface, oxidized, but incompletely leached, carbonatite zone (oxide-carbonate zone); a transitional or mixed zone (oxide + sulfide); and a deeper sulfide-bearing carbonatite (a high-carbonate igneous rock) zone. The oxide-carbonate and transitional zones were referred to collectively as a “transitional zone” in some prior news releases and technical reports. The mineralized zones were subsequently sub-classified, based on key characteristics of those zones. The FMR dikes and veins contain no matrix carbonates or sulfides. The sulfides are completely oxidized to hydrous iron oxides, and the non-REE bearing carbonate minerals (calcite and strontianite) show near-complete leaching from the zone, which ranges from the surface to depths of about 90-150 meters. The oxide-carbonate zone generally occurs beneath the oxide zone but approaches the surface locally in select dikes. It is characterized by the near absence of sulfides, with the residual iron oxides formed during almost complete oxidation of the former sulfide minerals, and by variable amounts of relict matrix carbonates (calcite ± strontianite) and the REE mineral, ancylite (a hydrous Sr-REE carbonate).
Bull Hill Mine
The Bull Hill Mine contains the Mineral Resources reported in our Technical Report, as discussed below. The Bull Hill Mine Mineral Resources, for purposes of this Annual Report, comprise mineralized material from both the Bull Hill and Whitetail Ridge deposit resource areas. The mineralized bodies occur as steeply dipping, FMR-carbonatite dike swarms and associated stockwork. Geological interpretation of results from the 2010-2014 drill and trench programs indicates that the Bull Hill resource area is dominated by northwest-striking mineralized bodies in the southern two-thirds of the resource area, while the northern part of the resource area exhibits a transitional change in strike from dominantly northwesterly to almost due north. The dike swarm primarily intrudes heterolithic intrusive breccia of the Bull Hill diatreme and adjacent trachytic and phonolitic intrusive rocks. Carbonatite dikes at
depth are interpreted to transition toward the surface into oxide-carbonate and FMR bodies. The mineralized structures range in size from veinlets to large dikes more than 30 meters in width. The Bull Hill deposit resource consists of one dominant dike set and several subsidiary dike sets in a swarm that has dimensions of more than 457 meters along strike and less than 100 meters in width. The dikes appear to pinch and swell in both strike and dip directions, and they can be traced in drill holes more than 305 meters down dip.
The Whitetail Ridge deposit occurs about 700 meters northwest of the Bull Hill deposit. The REE mineralization consists of northwest- and north-striking FMR dikes, and an FMR stockwork zone that is also elongated northeasterly, with dimensions of roughly 380 meters by 290 meters. The enveloping gravity and radiometric geophysical anomalies and coincident soil geochemical anomalies are larger and may indicate a broader distribution of REE mineralization beneath the extensive soil and colluvial cover. Drilling conducted in 2011 through 2013 indicates that much of the mineralization is confined within the volume of the Whitetail Ridge diatreme. Preliminary mineralogical studies by the Company indicate that the REE mineralization occurs in REE fluorocarbonates (bastnasite, parisite, and synchysite), cerianite, and subordinate monazite (an REE-Th phosphate). The Whitetail Ridge deposit mineralization is enriched in HREE, relative to the Bull Hill deposit, and both are enriched in CREE.
Pre-feasibility Study
In 2013 and 2014, we worked on optimizing the Bull Hill Mine plan, the mineral process methods and the Bear Lodge REE Project economics. This resulted in the Company undertaking and completing an updated PFS to reflect these significant changes.
The Company’s PFS as reported in the Technical Report for the Bear Lodge REE Project was authored principally by Norda Stelo, formerly Roche Engineering Inc. (“Roche”), which undertook the process engineering and mine and mill capital and operating cost estimation for the Bear Lodge REE Project at that time.
The technical report for the Bear Lodge REE Project dated October 9, 2014 is titled “Rare Element Resources Inc. Bear Lodge Project Canadian National Instrument 43-101; Pre-Feasibility Study Report; Technical Report on the Mineral Reserves and Resources and Development of the Bull Hill Mine” (the “Technical Report”) and is available under our profile at www.sedar.com. The Technical Report was authored by Peter S. Dahlberg P.E. of Roche in Sandy, Utah, and all sections of the Technical Report were prepared under his supervision. Mr. Dahlberg is an independent Qualified Person, as defined by NI 43-101. Other Qualified Persons, as defined by NI 43-101, who participated in the preparation of the Technical Report are Jaye T. Pickarts, P.E., former Chief Operating Officer of Rare Element, who confirmed that the NI 43-101 and Form 43-101F1 documents and Items 4, 5, 6, 19, and 20 of the Technical Report were prepared in compliance with the instrument and form; Alan C. Noble, P.E. of Ore Reserves Engineering in Lakewood, Colorado, who contributed to the preparation of Chapters 7, 8, 9, 10, and 14 of the Technical Report; William L. Rose P.E. of WLR Consulting Inc. in Lakewood, Colorado, who contributed Item 15 and portions of Item 16 (subsections 16.1, 16.2, 16.3 and 16.4) of the Technical Report; and Jeffrey A. Jaacks C.P.G of Centennial, Colorado, who contributed Chapter 11 of the Technical Report, all under the supervision of Mr. Dahlberg, the primary author.
The PFS estimated initial capital costs of approximately $290,000 and life-of-mine capital costs (including sustaining capital) of approximately $453,000.
Permitting Progress
The USFS is the lead agency in the NEPA process to prepare an EIS on the Bear Lodge REE Project. This process is essential to securing the permits and approvals necessary to move into production. In early 2012, we submitted the Plan of Operations for the Bear Lodge REE Project, which the USFS accepted as complete in May 2013. The USFS selected a project manager and prime contractor for preparation of the EIS, published notice in the Federal Register and completed necessary scoping work. The USFS issued a draft EIS on January 15, 2016, outlining plan alternatives and proffering a preferred alternative. The U.S. Army Corps of Engineers and the appropriate state and local government agencies are involved in the EIS process as cooperating agencies. On January 22, 2016, the Board of Directors directed the Company to continue to conserve cash due to the then difficult market conditions and suspend all permitting and licensing efforts, including the EIS process. The Company notified the USFS and cooperating agencies, the NRC and the state of Wyoming of its decision to suspend permitting and licensing efforts, and the parties acknowledged receipt of the notice. Assuming permitting efforts
resume within a reasonable time, the final EIS and draft Record of Decision (ROD), the decision document that establishes the acceptable operating conditions, would be expected within 18 to 30 months of the resumption of such permitting efforts.
Mineral Resources Estimates
The Mineral Resources estimates were developed by Alan C. Noble, P.E. of Ore Reserves Engineering and approved by the Rare Element management team.
Cautionary Note to U.S. Investors Concerning Estimates of Measured and Indicated Mineral Resources
This Annual Report uses the terms “Measured Mineral Resources” and “Indicated Mineral Resources.” We advise U.S. investors that while those terms are recognized and required by Canadian regulations, the SEC does not recognize them. U.S. investors are cautioned not to assume that any part or all of the mineral deposits in these categories will ever be converted into Mineral Reserves.
Cautionary Note to U.S. Investors Concerning Estimates of Inferred Mineral Resources
This Annual Report uses the term “Inferred Mineral Resources.” We advise U.S. investors that while this term is recognized and required by NI 43-101, the SEC does not recognize it. “Inferred Mineral Resources” have significant uncertainty as to their existence, and great uncertainty as to their economic and legal feasibility. It cannot be assumed that all or any part of Inferred Mineral Resources will ever be upgraded to a higher category. In accordance with Canadian rules, estimates of Inferred Mineral Resources cannot form the basis of feasibility or other economic studies. U.S. investors are cautioned not to assume that part or all of the Inferred Mineral Resource exists or is economically or legally mineable.
High-Grade Mineral Resource
High-grade Mineral Resources, which are those resources above a cutoff grade of 3% TREO, are particularly important, since they are the focus of mining in the first nine years of production. The high-grade Mineral Resource is summarized below. It occurs predominantly on the flank of Bull Hill, which contains 78% of the Measured and Indicated, high-grade resource.
Quality Assurance
The Mineral Resource estimate was completed by Mr. Alan C. Noble, P.E., principal engineer of Ore Reserves Engineering, and is based on geological interpretations supplied by the Company to Ore Reserves Engineering and subsequently modified by Ore Reserves Engineering. Mr. Noble is an independent Qualified Person for the purposes of NI 43-101 and verified the data disclosed herein.
Rare Element’s field programs prior to 2014 were carried out under the supervision of Dr. James G. Clark, formerly the Company’s Vice President of Exploration. Dr. Clark is a senior geologist and previously was exploration supervisor for Hecla Mining Company during the late 1980s and early 1990s, and was responsible for that company’s exploration of Bull Hill and the Bear Lodge district, and its initial discovery of the Bull Hill resource area. In 2014, John T. Ray, the Company’s Chief Geologist and a Qualified Person as a SME Registered Member, directed our exploration efforts. Mr. Ray was a consultant to Newmont Mining Company during its operations in the Bear Lodge REE Project area from 2004 to 2010. A detailed QA/QC program was implemented for the 2007 through 2013 drill programs. The QA/QC program was organized by Dr. Jeffrey Jaacks. Drs. Jaacks and Clark verified the sampling procedures and QA/QC data delivered to Ore Reserves Engineering. They share the opinion that the data are of good quality and suitable for use in the Mineral Resource estimate.
Metallurgy and Mineralization
The Mineral Resource size is sensitive to an assumed cut-off grade and to metallurgical operating costs. The mineable pit includes the known Measured and Indicated (M&I) Mineral Resource as disclosed in the Technical Report and is inclusive of the adjacent Whitetail Resource Area that extends towards the northwest.
A PUG plant, located within the Bear Lodge REE Project area, is designed to maximize concentration of the rare earth minerals and produce a mineral concentrate using a crushing, screening, and gravity separation process depending on the material type. The PUG process is designed to concentrate the rare earth-bearing fines and reduce the physical mass. There are areas of the mineable pit that contain variable amounts of weathered oxide material or oxide-carbonate (OxCa) mineralized material, and that contain variable grades of stockwork mineralization adjacent to the higher-grade material. Each of these material types will have a different upgrade percentage and mass reduction in the PUG circuit. The mining plan anticipates exploitation of a distinct high-grade zone early in the Bear Lodge REE Project that will allow for preferential mining in the initial years of the mine. Low and mid-grade material will also be mined and stockpiled for future PUG processing.
Reclamation of mining-related facilities will occur during mine operations, where applicable, and upon completion of mining and stockpiling of materials. Other facilities, including the PUG plant, will be reclaimed as soon as the stockpiled materials are depleted.
The mineral concentrate produced at the PUG plant is planned to be transported to a proposed hydrometallurgical plant near Upton, Wyoming via covered trucks. The hydrometallurgical plant will process the mineral concentrate by acid leaching followed by additional chemical processing to remove impurities and precipitation to produce the final TREO product. The tailings produced from the process will be filtered, neutralized and stored in a double-lined tailings storage facility (TSF) adjacent to the hydrometallurgical plant.
The Company has conducted metallurgical test work primarily at SGS Lakefield of Lakefield, Ontario, Canada, which is independent from the Company.
Other Exploration Target Areas at the Bear Lodge REE Project
Discovery of high-grade REE mineralization at the East Taylor and Carbon target areas expanded the area of known REE mineralization outside of the Bull Hill and Whitetail Ridge deposits, and further delineate a “district” underlain by significant and potentially economic REE mineralization. The data indicate that the Bear Lodge REE Project area covers a crudely elliptical area that extends approximately 1,750 meters northwest-southeast by 1,300 meters northeast-southwest. The Carbon exploration target area is located northwest of the Bull Hill deposit, and the East Taylor target is located west of the Bull Hill deposit. Drill assay data from the East Taylor and Carbon exploration targets identify these areas as zones of HREE-enrichment relative to the Bull Hill deposit. All are enriched in CREEs. These two exploration target areas, along with the Whitetail Ridge deposit, are peripheral to the Bull Hill deposit. They are characterized both by high TREO grades, and by some of the highest initial HREE grades of any known North American deposit. They are particularly enriched in Eu, Tb, Dy and Y.
The discovery of these target areas indicates good potential for additional deposits of high-grade REE in the western half of the Bear Lodge REE Project, and those deposits appear to be particularly enriched in HREE.
Sundance Gold Project
The Sundance Gold Project is the second project located on our Bear Lodge Property. The Sundance Gold Project consists of 288 unpatented lode mining claims adjacent to the Bull Hill Rare Earth Project in Crook County, Wyoming.
On June 1, 2006, Paso Rico (USA), Inc. (Company predecessor) and Newmont signed the Sundance gold-exploration venture agreement (the “Venture”) on the Company’s Bear Lodge Property. Newmont spent approximately $2.85 million in exploration by May 2010 and chose to terminate the Venture prior to earning any interest and returned the original claims to Paso Rico, predecessor company to Rare Element Resources, Inc. In addition, Newmont transferred 327 unpatented lode mining claims held outside the Venture to the Company. Newmont continues to hold a 0.5% NSR royalty on the 327 claims it previously held independent of the Venture.
In addition, and with respect to the Newmont Venture termination, the Company assumed all obligations of Newmont in a consulting agreement with Bronco Creek Exploration and Mining, Inc. requiring the Company to pay as a finder’s fee, 3% of exploration expenditures made during each quarter until a cap of $500 has been paid. The claims covered by the Bronco Creek consulting agreement are also subject to a 0.25% Net Smelter Returns Royalty with a cap of $3,000. The finder’s fee obligation is not yet achieved. There was no exploration work in 2016 or 2017.
Mineral Resources Estimates
The Sundance Gold Project contains an NI 43-101 compliant Inferred Mineral Resource with an effective date of March 15, 2011, prepared by Ore Reserves Engineering of Lakewood, Colorado. Total Inferred Mineral Resources assuming a $1,200/oz. gold price were 69,300,000 tonnes with a grade of 0.42/g/t Au. The Technical Report summarizes the project and is available on SEDAR at www.sedar.com.
ITEM 3.