ITEM 2.
PROPERTIES
Properties
We produce potash at three solution mining facilities and two conventional underground mining facilities. Our solution mining production comes from our HB mine near Carlsbad, New Mexico, a solar solution mine near Moab, Utah, and a solar brine recovery mine in Wendover, Utah. Our conventional production comes from our underground West and East mines near Carlsbad, New Mexico. We also operate the North compaction facility near Carlsbad, New Mexico, which compacts product from the West and HB mines.
We control the rights to mine approximately 138,000 acres of land northeast of Carlsbad, New Mexico. We lease approximately 32,000 acres from the state of New Mexico, approximately 106,000 acres from the federal government through the BLM, and approximately 240 acres from private leaseholders. We own approximately 4,300 surface acres in the vicinity of our mine sites and adjacent to federal and state mining leases.
We control the rights to mine approximately 10,300 acres of land west of Moab, Utah. We lease approximately 10,100 acres from the state of Utah and approximately 200 acres from the BLM. We own approximately 3,700 surface acres overlying and adjacent to portions of our mining leases with the state of Utah.
We control the rights to mine approximately 90,000 acres of land near Wendover, Utah. We own approximately 57,000 acres, and we lease approximately 8,000 acres from the state of Utah and approximately 25,000 acres from the federal government through the BLM.
We conduct most of our mining operations on properties that we lease from the state or federal government. These leases generally contain stipulations that require us to commence mining operations within a specified term and continue mining to retain the lease.
The stipulations on our leases are subject to periodic readjustment by the state and federal government. The lease stipulations could change in the future, which could impact the economics of our operations. Our federal leases are subject to readjustment of the lease stipulations, including the royalty payable to the federal government, every 20 years. Our leases with the state of New Mexico are issued for terms of ten years and for as long thereafter as potash is produced in commercial quantities and are subject to readjustment of the lease stipulations, including the royalty payable to the state. Our leases with the state of Utah are for terms of ten years subject to extension and possible readjustment of the lease by the state of Utah. Our leases for our Moab mine are operated as a unit under a unit agreement with the state of Utah, which extends the terms of all of the leases as long as operations are conducted on any portion of the leases. The term of the state leases for our Moab mine is currently extended until 2024 or so long as potash is being produced. Our federal leases are for indefinite terms subject to readjustment every 20 years. As of December 31, 2015, approximately 15% of our state, federal, and private lease acres at our New Mexico facilities will be up for renewal within the next five years. Only 0.2% of our state and federal lease acres at our Utah operations will be up for renewal within the next five years.
We have water rights at each of our mine properties that we believe are adequate for our needs. All of our mining operations are accessible by paved state or county highways and are accessible by rail. All of our operations obtain electric power from local utilities.
Our mines, plants, and equipment have been in substantially continuous operation since the dates indicated in the chart entitled "Our Proven and Probable Reserves" on the following pages; and our mineral development assets, mills, and equipment have been acquired over the interval since these dates.
As noted, we have relatively long-lived proven and probable reserves and consequently expect to conduct limited and focused additional exploration in the coming five years. We plan to drill core holes on occasion in areas near our Carlsbad, New Mexico, operations that are located in the Designated Potash Area, in order to further define the ore body. Development of the underground mines is expected to be coincident with the continued advancement of ore zones. Development of the solution mine and brine evaporation operations is expected to be enhanced by the drilling of additional wells. Although not in our current plans, we also have opportunities to rehabilitate the shafts at the currently idled North mine and additional surface infrastructure to accelerate mining of reserves.
Our leased office space in Denver, Colorado, is approximately 25,503 square feet and has a term extending through May 31, 2017.
We believe that all of our present facilities are adequate for our current needs and that additional space is available for future expansion on acceptable terms.
Proven and Probable Reserves
Our potash (muriate of potash) and langbeinite (sulfate of potash magnesia) reserves each have substantial life, with remaining reserve life ranging from 30 to over 100 years, based on proven and probable reserves estimated in accordance with SEC requirements. This lasting reserve base is the result of our past acquisition and development strategy. The estimates of our proven and probable reserves as of December 31, 2015, were prepared by us and were reviewed and independently determined by Agapito Associates, Inc. (“Agapito”) based on mine plans and other data furnished by us as described in footnote one below. The following table summarizes our proven and probable reserves, stated as product tons and associated percent ore grade, as of December 31, 2015.
Our Proven and Probable Reserves (thousands of tons)(1)
(1)
The determination of estimated reserves has been prepared by us and is based on an independent review and analysis of our mine plans and geologic, financial and other data by Agapito, which is familiar with our mines. The most recent review performed by Agapito for the New Mexico East, West, and HB properties was in 2015. Agapito's analysis for the West and East mines was based on detailed examination of our geologic site data and mine plan, which was updated with information from 2015 and 2014. As a result of the Agapito 2015 review, sylvite reserves in the West and East mines decreased and the langbeinite reserves in the East mine were decreased compared to previously reported reserves. The reduction in sylvite and langbeinite reserves in the West and East mines was primarily due to the 2015 mine plan update based on current geologic, mine production and economic data. The HB mine reserve estimate was increased due to the addition of the HB AMAX cavern solution mine reserves in 2015, less depletion for 2014 and 2015 production for the existing HB mine. The Moab property reserves are based on Agapito's 2015 mine reserve estimated based on detailed examination of our geologic, solution mine and site data that was updated with information from cavern development activities that occurred between 2012 and 2015. The Wendover property reserves are based on Agapito's 2015 brine aquifer reserve estimate based on detailed examination of our brine aquifer and site data that was updated with information from 2012 through 2015. However, depletion did not change the reserve life of 30 years as discussed in note 3 below. Because reserves are estimates, they cannot be audited for the purpose of verifying exactness. Instead, reserve information was reviewed in sufficient detail to determine if, in the aggregate, the data provided by us is reasonable and sufficient to estimate reserves in conformity with practices and standards generally employed by and within the mining industry and that are consistent with the requirements of U.S. securities laws.
(2)
These mines, excluding the HB mine, have operated in a substantially continuous manner since the dates set forth in this table. The HB mine was originally opened in 1934 and operated continuously as an underground mine until 1996.
(3)
Minimum remaining lives at the West, East, HB mine, and Moab mines are based on reserves (product tons) divided by annual effective productive capacity over the full expected life of the ore body, and corrections for purity: one ton of red muriate of potash equals 0.95 ton of KCl; one ton of East white muriate of potash equals 0.95 ton of KCl; one ton of Moab white muriate of potash equals 0.97 ton of KCl; one ton of sulfate of potash magnesia equals 0.97 ton of langbeinite. East minimum remaining life was based on two plants and associated plant capacities. Currently, langbeinite-only production is planned for
mid-2016 and the existing sylvite plant is expected to be shut down at that time. If we decided to produce potash at East again in the future, we expect that we would be required to construct a new plant to process the remaining reserves. Annual effective productive capacity contemplates the grade of the ore and estimated recovery percentages. The current effective productive capacity is different than annual effective productive capacity which contemplates future additional investment in the East facility for both langbeinite and sylvite production. Calculated mine lives that exceed 100 years are reported at 100+ years to balance the reserve life with the uncertainties associated with those extended time frames. We currently do not report more than 30 years mining life for Wendover due to the uncertainties associated with natural brine-containing aquifers.
(4)
Proven reserves mean tonnages computed from projection of data using the inverse distance squared method taking into account mining dilution, mine extraction efficiency, ore body impurities, metallurgical recovery factors, sales prices and operating costs from potash ore zone measurements as observed and recorded either in drill holes using cores, or channel samples in mine workings. This classification has the highest degree of geologic assurance. The data points for measurement are adequately spaced and the geologic character so well defined that the thickness, areal extent, size, shape, and depth of the potash ore zone are well-established. The maximum acceptable distance for projection from ore zone data points varies with the geologic nature of the ore zone being studied.
(5)
Recoverable ore tons is defined as the hoisted ore for the conventionally mined ore in our East and West Mines. This figure was derived from the in-place ore estimate that has been adjusted for factors such as geologic impurities and mine extraction ratios. For the HB mine and the Moab property, recoverable ore tons are defined as the potassium that can be extracted from the underground workings and pumped to the surface. This figure was derived from the in-place ore estimate that has been adjusted for factors such as geologic impurities, potash that dissolves but remains in the cavern (dissolution factor), and an extraction factor that accounts for potash that may not be recovered because solution may be channeled away or stranded due to cavern geometry. We do not calculate recoverable ore tons for the Wendover property as it is a lake brine resource, not an in-place ore deposit.
(6)
Ore grade expressed as expected mill feed grade to account for minimum mining height for the East and West mines. Muriate of potash ore grade is reported in % KCl and sulfate of potash magnesia ore grade is reported in % langbeinite. The ore grade for the Moab and HB mines is the in-place KCl grade.
(7)
Probable reserves means tonnages computed by projection of data using the inverse distance squared method taking into account mining dilution, mine extraction efficiency, ore body impurities, metallurgical recovery factors, sales prices and operating costs from available ore zone measurements as observed either in drill holes using cores or in mine workings for a distance beyond potash classified as proven reserves. This classification has a moderate degree of geological assurance.
(8)
Our reserves in the 1st, 3rd, 4th, 7th, 8th and 10th ore zones contain either sylvite (KCl) or langbeinite (K2SO4(MgSO4)2) separately. Reserves currently being mined at our East mine are from the 5th ore zone and contain both sylvite and langbeinite which we call mixed ore. We will cease processing sylvite at the East mine in mid-2016, and only the langbeinite ore contained in the East 5th ore zone is included in the mine reserve estimate. Additionally, the reserve amounts include West mine 3rd and 4th ore zones which contain langbeinite that we anticipate will be processed at the East mine.
(9)
The HB mine reserves were based on solution mining of old workings and recovery of potash from the residual pillars. Reserves are based on thicknesses, grades, and mine maps provided by us.
(10)
The Wendover facility reserves are the combination of a shallow and a deep aquifer. There were no proven reserves reported for either aquifer because the shallow aquifer represents an unconventional resource and there is uncertainty of the hydrogeology of the deep aquifer. The estimating method for the shallow aquifer was based on brine concentration, brine density, soil porosity within the aquifer, and aquifer thickness from historical reports. The brine concentrations and brine density were confirmed by us recently, but values for the aquifer thickness and the porosity were obtained from literature published by other sources. Probable reserves for the shallow brine at the Wendover facility were calculated from KCl contained in the shallow aquifer based on estimates of porosity and thickness over the reserve area. The distance for projection of probable reserves is a radius of three-quarters of a mile from points of measurement of brine concentration. Probable reserves for the deep-brine aquifer were estimated based on historical draw-down and KCl brine
concentrations. The ore grade (% KCl) for both the shallow and deep aquifer is the percentage by weight of KCl in the brine.
(11)
A portion of these reserves are within the West mine boundary. The classification of the reserve as being associated with the East mine is a result of where the ore is intended to be processed.
Production
Our facilities have a current estimated annual productive capacity of approximately 1.0 million tons of potash, and approximately 200,000 tons of langbeinite, based on current design. We are not currently producing at annual rates equal to our estimated productive capacity. Actual production is affected by operating rates, the grade of ore mined, recoveries, mining rates, evaporation rates, product pricing, and the amount of development work that we perform. Therefore, as with other producers in our industry, our production results tend to be lower than reported productive capacity.
Our production capabilities and capital improvements at our facilities are described in more detail below, along with our historical production of our primary products and by-products for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013.
Solution Mines
•
The HB mine has a current estimated productive capacity of 180,000 tons annually. The productive capacity may vary between approximately 160,000 and 200,000 tons of potash. Potash produced from our HB mine is shipped to the North facility for compaction.
•
Potash ore at Moab is mined from two stacked ore zones: the original mine workings in Potash 5 and the horizontal caverns in Potash 9.
•
The Moab mine has a current estimated productive capacity of approximately 110,000 tons of potash annually; evaporation rates have historically varied and, consequently, productive capacity may vary between approximately 75,000 and 120,000 tons of potash.
•
Potash at Wendover is produced primarily from brine containing salt, potash and magnesium chloride that is collected in ditches from the shallow aquifers of the West Desert. These materials are also collected from a deeper aquifer by means of deep brine wells.
•
The Wendover facility has a current estimated productive capacity of approximately 100,000 tons of potash annually; evaporation rates have historically resulted in actual production between approximately 65,000 and 100,000 tons of potash.
Conventional Underground Mines
•
Sylvite and langbeinite ore at our Carlsbad locations is mined from a stacked ore body containing at least 10 different mineralized zones, seven of which contain proven and probable reserves.
•
The West mine has a current estimated productive capacity of approximately 400,000 tons of red potash annually. Potash produced from our West mine is shipped to the North facility for compaction.
•
The East mine has a current estimated productive capacity of approximately 225,000 tons of white potash annually and, based on current design, approximately 200,000 tons of Trio® annually. The productive capacities at our East mine are based on annual averages. As the current plan is to transition to a Trio® -only operation in mid-2016, actual potash production is expected to be lower due to the transition. We expect our Trio® productive capacity to increase in 2016 as we transition the facility to a Trio® -only facility.
Compaction Facility
•
The North facility receives compactor feed from the West and HB facilities via truck and converts the compactor feed to finished granular-sized product and standard-sized product.
Our Development Assets
We have significant additional development opportunities in our New Mexico facilities with the acceleration of production from our reserves and mineralized deposits of potash, and the potential construction of additional production facilities in the region. We also own the leases on two idled mines near Carlsbad - the AMAX/Horizon mine and the North mine.
AMAX/Horizon mine
•
We acquired the potash leases associated with the AMAX/Horizon mine in October 2012. The AMAX/Horizon mine was in continuous operation between 1952 and 1993. This mine, similar to the HB mine, is a viable candidate for solution mining in a manner that is consistent with the HB mine. As these are relatively new lease holdings, we have not yet determined the feasibility associated with this potential development project, however, work is being performed to determine the ability to convert this area to a solution mining opportunity.
•
The AMAX/Horizon mine is expected to utilize the same evaporation ponds, and processing mill as the HB mine.
North mine
•
The North mine operated from 1957 to 1982 when it was idled mainly due to low potash prices and mineralogy changes which negatively impacted mineral processing at the facilities. Although the mining and processing equipment has been removed, the mine shafts remain open. The compaction facility at the North mine is where we granulate, store, and ship potash produced at the West and HB mines. Two abandoned mine shafts, rail access, storage facilities, water rights, utilities and leases covering potash deposits, are already in place. As part of our overall mine planning efforts, we continue to evaluate our strategic development options with respect to the shafts at the North mine and their access to mineralized deposits of potash.
Production of Our Primary Products (thousands of product tons)
One product ton of potash contains approximately 0.60 tons of K2O when produced at our West, Moab, and Wendover facilities and approximately 0.62 tons of K2O when produced at our East facility. The following table summarizes production of our primary products at each of our facilities for each of the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014, and 2013.
(1)
Mill feed grade is shown as percent K2O.
(2)
Muriate of potash and langbeinite at our East mine were processed from the same ore.
(3)
Our HB mine began processing a small amount of ore in late 2013; however, no ore production or finished product is shown due to rounding.
Our By-Product Production
During the extraction of potash, we also recover marketable salt and magnesium chloride. At our Wendover facility, we also produce metal recovery salt, which is potash mixed with salt, in ratios requested by our customers. We account for the revenue generated from sales of these minerals as a reduction in the cost of goods sold of our primary potash product.
ITEM 3.