ITEM 2.
PROPERTIES
Properties
Our potash production currently comes from six facilities-four near Carlsbad, New Mexico and two in Utah, all of which we own and operate. Our active producing facilities near Carlsbad include the West mine and East mine, both of which are conventional underground mines, and the North compaction plant which processes potash from the West mine.
The HB Solar Solution mine recently began producing potash from the initial harvest. Our facilities in Utah are the Moab mine, consisting of a solution mine, solar evaporation ponds and a process plant located near Moab, and the Wendover facility, consisting of a brine collection system, solar evaporation ponds, and process plant located near Wendover.
We control the rights to mine approximately 130,000 acres of land northeast of Carlsbad, New Mexico. We lease approximately 32,000 acres from the state of New Mexico, approximately 98,000 acres from the federal government through the BLM, and approximately 240 acres from private leaseholders.
We control the rights to mine approximately 10,300 acres of land west of Moab, Utah. We lease approximately 10,100 acres from the state of Utah and approximately 200 acres from the BLM. We own approximately 3,700 surface acres overlying and adjacent to portions of our mining leases with the state of Utah.
We control the rights to mine approximately 88,000 acres of land near Wendover, Utah. We own approximately 57,000 acres, and we lease approximately 6,000 acres from the state of Utah and approximately 25,000 acres from the federal government through the BLM.
We conduct most of our mining operations on properties that we lease from the state or federal government. These leases generally contain stipulations that require us to commence mining operations within a specified term and continue mining to retain the lease.
The stipulations on our leases are subject to periodic readjustment by the state and federal government. The lease stipulations could change in the future, which could impact the economics of our operations. Our federal leases are subject to readjustment of the lease stipulations, including the royalty payable to the federal government, every 20 years. Our leases with the state of New Mexico are issued for terms of ten years and for as long thereafter as potash is produced in commercial quantities and are subject to readjustment of the lease stipulations, including the royalty payable to the state. Our leases with the state of Utah are for terms of ten years subject to extension and possible readjustment of the lease by the state of Utah. Our leases for our Moab mine are operated as a unit under a unit agreement with the state of Utah, which extends the terms of all of the leases as long as operations are conducted on any portion of the leases. The term of the state leases for our Moab mine is currently extended until 2014 or so long as potash is being produced. Our federal leases are for indefinite terms subject to readjustment every 20 years. As of December 31, 2013, approximately 11% of our state, federal, and private lease acres at our New Mexico facilities (including leases at the HB Solar Solution and North mines) will be up for renewal within the next five years. None of our state and federal lease acres at our Utah operations will be up for renewal within the next five years.
We pay royalties to the state and federal governments and private leaseholds for potash, langbeinite, and by-products produced from our leases. The royalty rates on our state and federal leases in New Mexico are currently set at various rates from 2.0% to 5.0%. The royalty rates for the private leaseholds are between 5.0% and 8.0%. The royalty rates on our state and federal leases in Utah are currently set at rates from 2.0% to 5.0%.
We have water rights at each of our mine properties that we believe are adequate for our needs. All of our mining operations are accessible by paved state or county highways and are accessible by rail. All of our operations obtain electric power from local utilities.
Our mines, plants, and equipment have been in substantially continuous operation since the dates indicated in the chart entitled Proven and Probable Reserves on the following pages; and our mineral development assets, mills, and equipment have been acquired over the interval since these dates.
The HB Solar Solution mine, while previously operated as a conventional underground mine, began operating as a solar solution mine in 2013 with commercial quantities of production beginning in early 2014.
As noted, we have relatively long-lived proven and probable reserves and consequently expect to conduct limited and focused additional exploration in the coming five years. We plan to drill core holes on occasion in areas near our Carlsbad, New Mexico, operations that are located in the Designated Potash Area, in order to further define the ore body. Development of the underground mines is expected to be coincident with the continued advancement of ore zones. Development of the solution mine and brine evaporation operations is expected to be enhanced by the drilling of additional wells. We are considering rehabilitation of the shafts at the currently idled North mine and additional surface infrastructure to accelerate mining of reserves.
We have made significant investments to modernize and improve the condition of our plants and equipment. We invested approximately $256.2 million in our facilities in 2013, including the HB Solar Solution mine, the North compaction project, Moab cavern system and various throughput and recovery enhancement projects. We believe that our plants and equipment are adequate for executing our operating plans.
Including the initial acquisition of our assets, the total historical cost of mineral development assets, property, plant, and equipment as of December 31, 2013, is approximately $1.0 billion. By location, the historical costs of mineral development assets, property, plant and equipment as of December 31, 2013, are $873.7 million for Carlsbad (including the HB Solar Solution mine), $94.9 million for Moab, $55.6 million for Wendover, and $12.6 million for other supporting sites. These amounts include land, construction in progress, building, plant, equipment, and mineral development in progress. We believe we acquired facilities at bargain prices and hence these costs are not representative of replacement costs.
Our leased office space in Denver, Colorado, is approximately 39,726 square feet and has a term extending through April 30, 2019. We lease approximately 8,327 square feet of office space in Carlsbad, New Mexico, for a term extending through November 30, 2017.
We believe that all of our present facilities are adequate for our current needs and that additional space is available for future expansion on acceptable terms.
Proven and Probable Reserves
Our potash (muriate of potash) and langbeinite (sulfate of potash magnesia) reserves each have substantial life, with remaining reserve life ranging from 28 to 170 years, based on proven and probable reserves estimated in accordance with SEC requirements. This lasting reserve base is the result of our past acquisition and development strategy. The estimates of our proven and probable reserves as of December 31, 2013, were prepared by us and were reviewed and independently determined by Agapito Associates, Inc. (“Agapito”) based on mine plans and other data furnished by us as described in footnote one below. The following table summarizes our proven and probable reserves, stated as product tons and associated percent ore grade, as of December 31, 2013.
Our Proven and Probable Reserves (thousands of tons)(1)
(1)
The determination of estimated reserves has been prepared by us and is based on an independent review and analysis of our mine plans and geologic, financial and other data by Agapito, which is familiar with our mines. The most recent review performed by Agapito for the New Mexico East and West properties was in 2013. Agapito's analysis for the West and East mines was based on detailed examination of our geologic data that was updated with information from 2013 and 2012. As a result of the Agapito 2013 review, the East mixed ore reserve life was reduced due to reclassifying a portion of those reserves as langbeinite only. Additionally, a portion of langbeinite ore in the West 4th ore zone was reclassified as sylvite ore, which increased the West muriate of potash reserve and reduced the West sulfate of potash reserve that is reported in East reserves as described in notes 8 and 11. The Moab property reserves are based on Agapito's 2012 mine reserve estimate report less 2013 depletion. The Wendover property reserves are based on Agapito's 2012 mine reserve estimate report less 2013 depletion. However, depletion did not change the reserve life of 30 years as discussed in note 3 below. No changes to the HB Solar Solution mine reserve estimate were made to the 2008 Agapito review as there have been no changes to the geologic database for that area since that time. Additionally, although we began injection and extraction activities in 2012, no production from the HB Solar Solution mine occurred in 2013. Because reserves are estimates, they cannot be audited for the purpose of verifying exactness. Instead, reserve information was reviewed in sufficient detail to determine if, in the aggregate, the data provided by us is reasonable and sufficient to estimate reserves in conformity with practices and standards generally employed by and within the mining industry and that are consistent with the requirements of U.S. securities laws.
(2)
These mines, excluding the HB Solar Solution mine, have operated in a substantially continuous manner since the dates set forth in this table. The HB Solar Solution mine was originally opened in 1934 and operated continuously as an underground mine until 1996. We are currently operating the HB Solar Solution mine and achieved substantial completion of construction in the fourth quarter of 2013. Our first production began in early in 2014, and is expected to ramp up to full production in late 2015, assuming the benefit of average annual evaporation cycles applied to full evaporation ponds.
(3)
Minimum remaining lives at the West, East, HB Solar Solution mine, and Moab mines are based on reserves (product tons) divided by annual effective productive capacity over the full expected life of the ore body, and corrections for purity: one ton of red muriate of potash equals 0.95 ton of KCl; one ton of East white muriate of potash equals 0.98 ton of KCl; one ton of Moab white muriate of potash equals 0.97 ton of KCl; one ton of sulfate of potash magnesia equals 0.97 ton of langbeinite. East minimum remaining life was based on three phases, with various plant capacities: first, combined potash and langbeinite production; second, langbeinite only; and third, potash only. Annual effective productive capacity contemplates the grade of the ore, and estimated recovery percentages estimated at the time of the single stream processing for the langbeinite production and the potash production. The current effective productive capacity is different than annual effective productive capacity which contemplates future additional investment in the East facility. We currently do not report more than 30 years mining life for Wendover due to the uncertainties associated with natural brine-containing aquifers.
(4)
Proven reserves mean tonnages computed from projection of data using the inverse distance squared method taking into account mining dilution, mine extraction efficiency, ore body impurities, metallurgical recovery factors, sales prices and operating costs from potash ore zone measurements as observed and recorded either in drill holes using cores, or channel samples in mine workings. This classification has the highest degree of geologic assurance. The data points for measurement are adequately spaced and the geologic character so well defined that the thickness, areal extent, size, shape, and depth of the potash ore zone are well-established. The maximum acceptable distance for projection from ore zone data points varies with the geologic nature of the ore zone being studied.
(5)
Recoverable ore tons is defined as the hoisted ore for the conventionally mined ore in our East and West Mines. This figure was derived from the in-place ore estimate that has been adjusted for factors such as geologic impurities and mine extraction ratios. For the HB Solar Solution mine and the Moab property, recoverable ore tons are defined as the potassium that can be extracted from the underground workings and pumped to the surface. This figure was derived from the in-place ore estimate that has been adjusted for factors such as geologic impurities, potash that dissolves but remains in the cavern (dissolution factor), and an extraction factor that accounts for potash that may not be recovered because solution may be channeled away or stranded due to cavern geometry. We do not calculate recoverable ore tons for the Wendover property as it is a lake brine resource, not an in-place ore deposit.
(6)
Ore grade expressed as expected mill feed grade to account for minimum mining height for the East and West mines. Muriate of potash ore grade is reported in % KCl and sulfate of potash magnesia ore grade is reported in % langbeinite. The ore grade for the Moab and HB Solar Solution mines is the in-place KCl grade.
(7)
Probable reserves means tonnages computed by projection of data using the inverse distance squared method taking into account mining dilution, mine extraction efficiency, ore body impurities, metallurgical recovery factors, sales prices and operating costs from available ore zone measurements as observed either in drill holes using cores or in mine workings for a distance beyond potash classified as proven reserves. This classification has a moderate degree of geological assurance.
(8)
Our reserves in the 1st, 3rd, 4th, 7th, 8th and 10th ore zones contain either sylvite (KCl) or langbeinite (K2SO4(MgSO4)2) separately. Reserves currently being mined at our East mine are from the 5th ore zone and contain both sylvite and langbeinite which we call mixed ore. East mine 5th ore zone also contains ore classified as langbeinite only. Additionally, the reserve amounts include West mine 3rd and 4th ore zones which contain langbeinite that we anticipate will be processed at the East mine.
(9)
The HB Solar Solution mine reserves were based on solution mining of old workings and recovery of potash from the residual pillars. Reserves are based on thicknesses, grades, and mine maps provided by us. Capital costs to establish economic viability for the HB Solar Solution mine reserves are based on updated internal estimates derived from third party engineering estimates, vendor and contractor quotes, and in-
house estimates. Operating costs to establish economic viability were updated in 2013 based on designed operating parameters for reagent usage, power, materials and supplies, and anticipated staffing requirements for operations and environmental compliance.
(10)
The Wendover facility reserves are the combination of a shallow and a deep aquifer. There were no proven reserves reported for either aquifer because the shallow aquifer represents an unconventional resource and there is uncertainty of the hydrogeology of the deep aquifer. The estimating method for the shallow aquifer was based on brine concentration, brine density, soil porosity within the aquifer, and aquifer thickness from historical reports. The brine concentrations and brine density were confirmed by us recently, but values for the aquifer thickness and the porosity were obtained from literature published by other sources. Probable reserves for the shallow brine at the Wendover facility were calculated from KCl contained in the shallow aquifer based on estimates of porosity and thickness over the reserve area. The distance for projection of probable reserves is a radius of three-quarters of a mile from points of measurement of brine concentration. Probable reserves for the deep-brine aquifer were estimated based on historical draw-down and KCl brine concentrations. The ore grade (% KCl) for both the shallow and deep aquifer is the percentage by weight of KCl in the brine.
(11)
A portion of these reserves are within the West mine boundary. The classification of the reserve as being associated with the East mine is a result of where the ore is intended to be processed.
Production
Our facilities have a current estimated annual productive capacity of approximately 1.1 million tons of potash, including approximately 180,000 tons of designed productive capacity for the recently completed HB Solar Solution mine, and approximately 200,000 tons of langbeinite, based on current design. We are not currently producing at annual rates equal to our estimated productive capacity. Actual production is affected by operating rates, the grade of ore mined, recoveries, mining rates, evaporation rates, and the amount of development work that we perform. Therefore, as with other producers in our industry, our production results tend to be lower than reported productive capacity. After years of design and construction work, we recently completed construction of the HB Solar Solution mine near Carlsbad, New Mexico, and we are processing our first harvest of ore from the solar evaporation ponds. We have begun initial commissioning of the processing plant, which we expect to continue through much of 2014. The HB Solar Solution mine applies solution mining and solar evaporation techniques to produce potash from previously idled mine workings. We expect production from the HB Solar Solution mine to increase as we ramp up production through 2016.
Our production capabilities and capital improvements at our facilities are described in more detail below, along with our historical production of our primary products and by-products for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011.
Carlsbad, New Mexico
•
Sylvite and langbeinite ore at our Carlsbad locations is mined from a stacked ore body containing at least 10 different mineralized zones, seven of which contain proven and probable reserves.
•
The West mine has a current estimated productive capacity of approximately 420,000 tons of red potash annually. Potash produced from our West mine is shipped to the North facility for compaction.
•
The North facility receives potash from the West mine via truck and converts the compactor feed to finished red granular-sized product and standard-sized product.
•
The East mine has a current estimated productive capacity of approximately 250,000 tons of white potash and, based on current design approximately 200,000 tons of langbeinite annually. Our productive capacity is impacted by the East’s mine plan and the mix of sylvite and langbeinite ore in the ore body. Our choice of the ore we mine impacts productive capacity in that the relative mixture of ore grade of sylvite and langbeinite drive the productive capacity of our facility.
•
The assets comprising the HB Solar Solution mine were previously operated as conventional underground operations until their closure in 1996 due to low potash prices and inefficient mineral processing at the facilities. We recently completed construction of the HB Solar Solution mine as a solution mine, and have begun commissioning and production activities. We believe the HB Solar Solution mine project has the potential, when fully operational, to ultimately increase production by an estimated 5 million tons of additional low-cost potash production. We expect production rates to be between 150,000 to 200,000 tons annually for a period of approximately 28 years.
Moab, Utah
•
Potash ore at Moab is mined from two stacked ore zones: the original mine workings in Potash 5 that were converted to a solution mine and the horizontal caverns in Potash 9.
•
The Moab mine has a current estimated productive capacity of approximately 110,000 tons of potash annually; evaporation rates have historically varied and, consequently, productive capacity may vary between approximately 75,000 and 120,000 tons of potash.
Wendover, Utah
•
Potash at Wendover is produced primarily from brine containing salt, potash and magnesium chloride that is collected in ditches from the shallow aquifers of the Bonneville Salt Flats. These materials are also collected from a deeper aquifer by means of deep brine wells.
•
The Wendover facility has a current estimated productive capacity of approximately 100,000 tons of potash annually; evaporation rates have historically resulted in actual production between approximately 65,000 and 100,000 tons of potash.
Our Development Assets
We have significant additional development opportunities in our New Mexico facilities with the acceleration of production from our reserves and mineralized deposits of potash, and the potential construction of additional production facilities in the region. We also own the leases on two idled mines in or near Carlsbad - the Amax/Horizon mine and the North mine.
Amax/Horizon mine
•
We acquired the potash leases associated with the Amax/Horizon mine in October 2012. The Amax/Horizon mine was in continuous operation between 1952 and 1993, averaging over 450,000 tons of potash production annually prior to being idled. This mine, similar to the HB Solar Solution mine, is a viable candidate for solution mining in a manner that is consistent with the HB Solar Solution mine. As these are relatively new lease holdings, we have not yet determined the feasibility associated with this potential development project, however, work is being performed to determine the ability to convert this area to a solution mining opportunity.
•
The newly constructed plant for the HB Solar Solution mine has additional capacity to process potash. The development of the Amax/Horizon mine is expected to utilize much of the same pipeline system, evaporation ponds, and the processing mill as the HB Solar Solution mine.
North mine
•
The North mine operated from 1957 to 1982 when it was idled mainly due to low potash prices and mineralogy changes which negatively impacted mineral processing at the facilities. The production rate from this mine was approximately 330,000 tons annually prior to being idled. Although the mining and processing equipment has been removed, the mine shafts remain open. The compaction facility at the North mine is where we granulate, store, and ship potash produced at the West mine and the HB Solar Solution mine. Two operable mine shafts and much of the transportation and utility infrastructure required to operate the mine, rail access, storage facilities, water rights, utilities and leases covering potash deposits, are already in place. As part of our overall mine planning efforts, we continue to evaluate our strategic development options with respect to the shafts at the North mine and their access to mineralized deposits of potash. These development options contemplate a refurbishment of the shafts, underground development, a mill, and operating infrastructure that would produce at rates in excess of historical production levels, thereby leveraging the operating size and gaining benefits of scale towards per ton operating costs.
Production of Our Primary Products (thousands of product tons)
One product ton of potash contains approximately 0.60 tons of K2O when produced at our West, Moab, and Wendover facilities and approximately 0.62 tons of K2O when produced at our East facility. The following table summarizes
production of our primary products at each of our facilities for each of the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012, and 2011.
(1)
Mill feed grade is shown as percent K2O.
(2)
Muriate of potash and langbeinite at our East mine are processed from the same ore.
(3)
Our HB Solar Solution mine began processing a small amount of ore in late 2013; however, no ore production or finished product is shown due to rounding.
Our By-Product Production
During the extraction of potash, we also recover marketable salt and magnesium chloride. At our Wendover facility, we also produce metal recovery salt, which is potash mixed with salt, in ratios requested by our customers. We account for the revenue generated from sales of these minerals as a reduction in the cost of goods sold of our primary potash product.
ITEM 3.