ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
The Company has acquired the following leases and mineral rights to recover oil and natural gas within the United States:
The Delhi Field - Richland Parish, Louisiana
In December 2006, the Company acquired mineral right leases on 1,400 acres in the Delhi Field, in north-east Louisiana. The Company’s lease encompasses a portion of approximately 13,636 acres comprising the Delhi Holt Bryant Unit and Mengel Unit. This field has produced since 1946. As of recent, oil production in this field has utilized secondary recovery in which water is injected into the reservoir formation to displace residual oil. The water from injection wells physically sweeps the displaced oil to adjacent production wells. The Company’s 2009 development program involves bringing into production 10 existing wells, 7 in the Mengel Sand and 43 in the Z-Equivelent Sand as well as 5 infill drilling possibilities of proved but undeveloped opportunities, 3 in the Z- Equivelent Sand and 2 in the Mengel Sand. In 2008, 4 existing wellbores were converted to water injection wells which will enhance the efficiency of the waterflood and increase production while allowing a higher percentage of residual oil to be produced. The company has a 95.8% Working Interest and 82.7% Net Revenue Interest in this field.
The Marion Field - Union Parish, Louisiana
In December 2005, the Company leased shallow mineral rights (down to 3,200 feet) on approximately 21,500 acres in Union Parrish, Louisiana, which is a natural gas field currently producing approximately 700-750 MCF a day from approximately 500 wells from the Arkadelfia Gas Zonesand, and with proved developed reserves of 1,788 MMcf. The wells are currently producing on 40 acre spacing. The Company and third party engineers believe that there is great infill development drilling potential after drilling 4 wells with virgin pressure on 20 acre spacing. The field can be optimized at 10 acre spacing, creating 800 development opportuities. The Company forecasts a 300 well program for the next 2 and a half years. The Marion field is part of the larger Monroe Gas Field which was the largest gas field in the United States in the early-to-mid 1900's. It should be noted that in 2005, state records indicated that the Monroe Gas Field produced over 7.0 Tcf. It is located in Northeast Louisiana, in Union Parish, which has 8,558 wells. The oil producing Cotton Valley and Smackover formations are also present within the leasehold. In addition, in December 2005, the Company leased deep mineral rights (down to 9,500 feet) on approximately 8,000 acres of the 21,500 acres that will allow the Company to explore this deeper zone. The Company believes that a remedial program to fix the infrastructure from pipeline leakages to hub compressors can result in up to 50% increased production. The company has a 100% Working Interest and 71% Net Revenue Interest in this field.
Belton Field - Muhlenberg County, Kentucky
In April 2004, the Company purchased the mineral rights on approximately 3,008 acres in Muhlenberg County, an oil and gas field in the Illinois Basin, in west-central Kentucky. In 2006 and 2007, the Company leased the mineral rights to an additional 6,317 acres. Oil was discovered in this basin about 150 years ago. When the Company acquired the rights on the original 3,008 acres, the above-the-ground pumping and storage units had fallen into disrepair and the field was idle. The field was originally discovered in 1939 and developed to produce oil from shallow zones. The first well was completed in the McClosky Limestone (TD 1,541’). Coal was discovered on the property and much of that coal was “mined-out” during strip mining operations. All mining operations ceased decades ago and the mines were reclaimed and are now pastures. Natural gas was discovered in the northwest corner of the field in the 1980’s and continued to produce natural gas until recently. There are five known producing horizons on the property. These include (1) the New Albany Gas Shale; (2) the upper-Mississippian-period’s Jackson Sandstone that has significant gas indicated in two wells drilled on the northeast border of the property (the upper McCloskey zone); (3) the lower-Mississippian-period’s St. Genevieve Limestone (the oil-bearing McClosky zone) and (2) a deep Silurian oil-bearing zone. The Company is in the process of bringing into production 17 existing upper McCloskey wells. The Company’s 2009 and 2010 drilling program includes the drilling of 24 New Alabany Shale wells and 24 Lower McCloskey wells and will endeavor to farm out the deep Silurian zones. The Company has a 100% working Interest and approximately 76.5% Net Revenue Interest in this field.
Hospah, Lone Pine & Clovis Fields - McKinley County, New Mexico
In 2006 and 2007, the Company acquired mineral rights leases on approximately 1,280 acres in the Hospah Field and Lone Pine Field in McKinley County, New Mexico. The Hospah Field was discovered in 1924 and has produced oil for many years. The Upper Hospah Sandstone of Cretaceous Age produced 5 million barrels by 1974. The Lone Pine Field was found just south of Hospah in 1970 and oil was discovered from the productive Dakota Sandstone at a depth of between 2,500 and 3,800 feet. Most of the oil development in these fields was done by Tenneco. Oil and gas production from the Hospah Sandstones reservoirs from 1927 to 2005 has yielded nearly 22 million barrels of oil and nearly 53 Mcf of gas. The company is currently evaluating the prospects of this field. The Company is currently negotiating to acquire a 100% Working Interest and an 80% Net Revenue Interest on an approximately 1,200 acres in the Clovis field.
The Company divested the following fields in 2008 in an effort to enhance its balance sheet, relieve debt, and exit non strategic geographical core areas:
- A 50% Working Interest and 42% Net Revenue Interest in the South Belridge Field, Kern County, California
- A 85% Working Interest and 57.25% Net Revenue Interest in the Days Creek Field, Miller County, Arkansas
- A 24% Working Interest and 16.5% Net Revenue Interest in the Stephens Field at Smackove, Ouachita County, Arkansas
The following table sets forth certain information regarding our developed and undeveloped lease acreage as of December 31, 2008. “Developed Acreage” refers to acreage on which wells have been drilled or completed to a point that would permit production of oil and natural gas in commercial quantities. “Undeveloped Acreage” refers to acreage on which wells have not been drilled or completed to a point that would permit production of oil and natural gas in commercial quantities whether or not the acreage contains proved reserves.
Oil and Natural Gas Reserves
The reserves as of December 31, 2008 were derived from reserve estimates prepared by independent reserve engineers; Mark Newendorp for the Delhi Field and the Marion Field and The Daniel Company, LLC for the Belton Field. The PV-10 value was derived using constant prices as of the calculation date, discounted at 10% per annum on a pretax basis, and is not intended to represent the current market value of the estimated oil and natural gas reserves owned by the Company.
The following table sets forth our estimated net proved oil and natural gas reserves and the PV-10 value of such reserves as of December 31, 2008.
(1)
The PV-10 value as of December 31, 2008 is pre-tax and was determined by using the December 31, 2008 sales prices, which weighted averaged $42.68 per Bbl of oil, $6.71 per Mcf of natural gas. Management believes that the presentation of PV-10 value may be considered a non-GAAP financial measure. Therefore we have included a reconciliation of the measure to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure (standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows in Note 2 below). Management believes that the presentation of PV-10 value provides useful information to investors because it is widely used by professional analysts and sophisticated investors in evaluating oil and natural gas companies. Because many factors that are unique to each individual company may impact the amount of future income taxes to be paid, the use of the pre-tax measure provides greater comparability when evaluating companies. It is relevant and useful to investors for evaluating the relative monetary significance of our oil and natural gas properties. Further, investors may utilize the measure as a basis for comparison of the relative size and value of our reserves to other companies.
Management also uses this pre-tax measure when assessing the potential return on investment related to its oil and natural gas properties and in evaluating acquisition candidates. The PV-10 value is not a measure of financial or operating performance under GAAP, nor is it intended to represent the current market value of the estimated oil and natural gas reserves owned by us. The PV-10 value should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows as defined under GAAP.
Productive Wells
Productive wells are producing wells or wells capable of production. This does not include water source wells, water injection wells or water disposal wells. Productive wells do not include any wells in the process of being drilled and completed that are not yet capable of production, but does include old productive wells that are currently shut-in, because they are still capable of production. The following table sets forth the number of productive oil and natural gas wells in which we owned an interest as of December 31, 2008.
Delivery Commitments
We are not obligated to provide a fixed and determinable quantity of oil or natural gas in the near future under existing contracts or agreements. Furthermore, during the last three years we had no significant delivery commitments.
Trademarks and Other Intellectual Property
The Company purchased exclusive North American rights for a non-conventional lateral drilling technology invented by Carl Landers, a Director of the Company from inception. The patents comprising this lateral drilling technology are: US Patent Number 5,413,184 Method and Apparatus for Horizontal Well Drilling , issued May 9, 1995; US Patent Number 5,853,056 Method and Apparatus for Horizontal Well Drilling , issued December 12, 1998; and US Patent Number 6,125,949 Method and Apparatus for Horizontal Well Drilling , issued October 3, 2000. There can be no assurance that these patents and the related technology will perform to the Company’s expectations. Further, there can be no assurance that these patents and related technology do not infringe upon the intellectual property rights of others.
Distribution Methods
Each of our fields that produce oil distributes all of the oil that it produces through one purchaser for each field. We do not have a written agreement with some of these oil purchasers. These oil purchasers pick up oil from our tanks and pay us according to market prices at the time the oil is picked up at our tanks. There is significant demand for oil and there are several companies in our operating areas that purchase oil from small oil producers.
Each of our fields that produce natural gas distributes all of the natural gas that it produces through one purchaser for each field. We have distribution agreements with these natural gas purchasers that provide us a tap into a distribution line of a natural gas distribution company and to be paid for our natural gas at either a market price at the beginning of the month or market price at the time of delivery, less any transportation cost charged by the natural gas distribution company. These charges can range widely from 2 percent to 20 percent or more of the market value of the natural gas depending on the availability of competition and other factors.
Competitive Business Conditions
We encounter competition from other oil and natural gas companies in all areas of our operations. Because of record high prices for oil and natural gas, there are many companies competing for the leasehold rights to good oil and natural gas prospects. And, because so many companies are again exploring for oil and natural gas, there is often a shortage of equipment available to do drilling and workover projects. Many of our competitors are large, well-established companies that have been engaged in the oil and natural gas business for much longer than we have and possess substantially larger operating staffs and greater capital resources than we do. We may not be able to conduct our operations, evaluate and select properties and consummate transactions successfully in this highly competitive environment.
The oil and natural gas industry is characterized by rapid and significant technological advancements and introductions of new products and services using new technologies. If one or more of the technologies we use now or in the future were to become obsolete or if we are unable to use the most advanced commercially available technology, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected.
Source and Availability of Raw Materials
We have no significant raw materials. However, we make use of numerous oil field service companies in the drilling and workover of wells. We currently operate in areas where there are numerous oil field service and drilling companies that are available to us.
Dependence on One or a Few Customers
There is a ready market for the sale of crude oil and natural gas. Each of our fields currently sells all of its oil production to one purchaser for each field and all of its natural gas production to one purchaser for each field. However, because alternate purchasers of oil and natural gas are readily available at similar prices, we believe that the loss of any of our purchasers would not have a material adverse effect on our financial results.
The Company sold oil and natural gas production representing more than 10% of its oil and natural gas revenues as follows:
(1)
The Company does not have a formal purchase agreement with this customer, but sells production on a month-to-month basis at spot prices adjusted for field differentials.
(2)
Orchard Petroleum, Inc. is the operator of the Company’s wells in California and sells production on the Company’s behalf to Kern Oil & Refining, Co. and Aera Energy, LLC.
Government Regulations
Our facilities in the United States are subject to federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations. Compliance with these provisions has not had, and we do not expect such compliance to have, any material adverse effect upon our capital expenditures, net earnings or competitive position.
Regulation of transportation of oil
Sales of crude oil, condensate, natural gas and natural gas liquids are not currently regulated and are made at negotiated prices. Nevertheless, Congress could reenact price controls in the future.
Our sales of crude oil are affected by the availability, terms and cost of transportation. The transportation of oil in common carrier pipelines is also subject to rate regulation. The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (“FERC”) regulates interstate oil pipeline transportation rates under the Interstate Commerce Act. In general, interstate oil pipeline rates must be cost-based, although settlement rates agreed to by all shippers are permitted and market-based rates may be permitted in certain circumstances. Effective January 1, 1995, the FERC implemented regulations establishing an indexing system (based on inflation) for transportation rates for oil that allowed for an increase or decrease in the cost of transporting oil to the purchaser. A review of these regulations by the FERC in 2000 was successfully challenged on appeal by an association of oil pipelines. On remand, the FERC in February 2003 increased the index slightly, effective July 2001. Intrastate oil pipeline transportation rates are subject to regulation by state regulatory commissions. The basis for intrastate oil pipeline regulation, and the degree of regulatory oversight and scrutiny given to intrastate oil pipeline rates, varies from state to state. Insofar as effective interstate and intrastate rates are equally applicable to all comparable shippers, we believe that the regulation of oil transportation rates will not affect our operations in any way that is of material difference from those of our competitors.
Further, interstate and intrastate common carrier oil pipelines must provide service on a non-discriminatory basis. Under this open access standard, common carriers must offer service to all similarly situated shippers requesting service on the same terms and under the same rates. When oil pipelines operate at full capacity, access is governed by pro-rationing provisions set forth in the pipelines’ published tariffs. Accordingly, we believe that access to oil pipeline transportation services generally will be available to us to the same extent as to our competitors.
Regulation of transportation and sale of natural gas
Historically, the transportation and sale for resale of natural gas in interstate commerce have been regulated pursuant to the Natural Gas Act of 1938, the Natural Gas Policy Act of 1978 and regulations issued under those Acts by the FERC. In the past, the federal government has regulated the prices at which natural gas could be sold. While sales by producers of natural gas can currently be made at uncontrolled market prices, Congress could reenact price controls in the future. Deregulation of wellhead natural gas sales began with the enactment of the Natural Gas Policy Act. In 1989, Congress enacted the Natural Gas Wellhead Decontrol Act. The Decontrol Act removed all Natural Gas Act and Natural Gas Policy Act price and non-price controls affecting wellhead sales of natural gas effective January 1, 1993.
The FERC regulates interstate natural gas transportation rates and service conditions, which affects the marketing of natural gas that we produce, as well as the revenues we receive for sales of our natural gas. Since 1985, the FERC has endeavored to make natural gas transportation more accessible to natural gas buyers and sellers on an open and non-discriminatory basis. The FERC has stated that open access policies are necessary to improve the competitive structure of the interstate natural gas pipeline industry and to create a regulatory framework that will put natural gas sellers into more direct contractual relations with natural gas buyers by, among other things, unbundling the sale of natural gas from the sale of transportation and storage services. Beginning in 1992, the FERC issued Order No. 636 and a series of related orders to implement its open access policies. As a result of the Order No. 636 program, the marketing and pricing of natural gas have been significantly altered. The interstate pipelines’ traditional role as wholesalers of natural gas has been eliminated and replaced by a structure under which pipelines provide transportation and storage service on an open access basis to others who buy and sell natural gas. Although the FERC’s orders do not directly regulate natural gas producers, they are intended to foster increased competition within all phases of the natural gas industry.
In 2000, the FERC issued Order No. 637 and subsequent orders, which imposed a number of additional reforms designed to enhance competition in natural gas markets. Among other things, Order No. 637 effected changes in FERC regulations relating to scheduling procedures, capacity segmentation, penalties, rights of first refusal and information reporting. Most pipelines’ tariff filings to implement the requirements of Order No. 637 have been accepted by the FERC and placed into effect.
Gathering service, which occurs upstream of jurisdictional transmission services, is regulated by the states on shore and in state waters. Although its policy is still in flux, FERC has reclassified certain jurisdictional transmission facilities as non-jurisdictional gathering facilities, which may increase our costs of getting gas to point of sale locations.
Intrastate natural gas transportation is also subject to regulation by state regulatory agencies. The basis for intrastate regulation of natural gas transportation and the degree of regulatory oversight and scrutiny given to intrastate natural gas pipeline rates and services varies from state to state. Insofar as such regulation within a particular state will generally affect all intrastate natural gas shippers within the state on a comparable basis, we believe that the regulation of similarly situated intrastate natural gas transportation in any states in which we operate and ship natural gas on an intrastate basis will not affect our operations in any way that is of material difference from those of our competitors. Like the regulation of interstate transportation rates, the regulation of intrastate transportation rates affects the marketing of natural gas that we produce, as well as the revenues we receive for sales of our natural gas.
Regulation of production
The production of oil and natural gas is subject to regulation under a wide range of local, state and federal statutes, rules, orders and regulations. Federal, state and local statutes and regulations require permits for drilling operations, drilling bonds and reports concerning operations. Such regulations govern conservation matters, including provisions for the unitization or pooling of oil and natural gas properties, the establishment of maximum allowable rates of production from oil and natural gas wells, the regulation of well spacing, and plugging and abandonment of wells. The effect of these regulations is to limit the amount of oil and natural gas that we can produce from our wells and to limit the number of wells or the locations at which we can drill, although we can apply for exceptions to such regulations or to have reductions in well spacing. Moreover, each state generally imposes a production or severance tax with respect to the production and sale of oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids within its jurisdiction.
The failure to comply with these rules and regulations can result in substantial penalties. Our competitors in the oil and natural gas industry are subject to the same regulatory requirements and restrictions that affect our operations.
Environmental, health and safety regulation
Our operations are subject to stringent and complex federal, state, local and provincial laws and regulations governing environmental protection, health and safety, including the discharge of materials into the environment. These laws and regulations may, among other things:
§
require the acquisition of various permits before drilling commences;
§
restrict the types, quantities and concentration of various substances that can be released into the environment in connection with oil and natural gas drilling, production and transportation activities;
§
limit or prohibit drilling activities on certain lands lying within wilderness, wetlands and other protected areas; and
§
require remedial measures to mitigate pollution from former and ongoing operations, such as requirements to close pits and plug abandoned wells.
These laws and regulations may also restrict the rate of oil and natural gas production below the rate that would otherwise be possible. The regulatory burden on the oil and gas industry increases the cost of doing business in the industry and consequently affects profitability. Additionally, Congress and federal and state agencies frequently revise environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, and any changes that result in more stringent and costly waste handling, disposal and cleanup requirements for the oil and gas industry could have a significant impact on our operating costs.
The following is a summary of the material existing environmental, health and safety laws and regulations to which our business operations are subject.
Waste handling. The Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, or “RCRA”, and comparable state statutes, regulate the generation, transportation, treatment, storage, disposal and cleanup of hazardous and non-hazardous wastes. Under the auspices of the federal Environmental Protection Agency, or “EPA”, the individual states administer some or all of the provisions of RCRA, sometimes in conjunction with their own, more stringent requirements. Drilling fluids, produced waters and most of the other wastes associated with the exploration, development and production of crude oil or natural gas are currently regulated under RCRA’s non-hazardous waste provisions. However, it is possible that certain oil and natural gas exploration and production wastes now classified as non-hazardous could be classified as hazardous wastes in the future. Any such change could result in an increase in our costs to manage and dispose of wastes, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position.
Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act. The Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, or “CERCLA”, also known as the Superfund law, imposes joint and several liability, without regard to fault or legality of conduct, in connection with the release of a hazardous substance into the environment. Persons potentially liable under CERCLA include the current or former owner or operator of the site where the release occurred and anyone who disposed or arranged for the disposal of a hazardous substance to the site where the release occurred. Under CERCLA, such persons may be subject to joint and several liabilities for the costs of cleaning up the hazardous substances that have been released into the environment, damages to natural resources and the costs of certain health studies. In addition, it is not uncommon for neighboring landowners and other third parties to file claims for personal injury and property damage allegedly caused by the hazardous substances released into the environment.
We own and lease, and may in the future operate, numerous properties that have been used for oil and natural gas exploitation and production for many years. Hazardous substances may have been released on, at or under the properties owned, leased or operated by us, or on, at or under other locations, including off-site locations, where such substances have been taken for disposal. In addition, some of our properties have been or are operated by third parties or by previous owners or operators whose handling, treatment and disposal of hazardous substances were not under our control. These properties and the substances disposed or released on, at or under them may be subject to CERCLA, RCRA and analogous state laws. In certain circumstances, we could be responsible for the removal of previously disposed substances and wastes, remediate contaminated property or perform remedial plugging or pit closure operations to prevent future contamination. In addition, federal and state trustees can also seek substantial compensation for damages to natural resources resulting from spills or releases.
Water discharges . The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, or the “Clean Water Act”, and analogous state laws, impose restrictions and strict controls with respect to the discharge of pollutants, including oil and other substances generated by our operations, into waters of the United States or state waters. Under these laws, the discharge of pollutants into regulated waters is prohibited except in accordance with the terms of a permit issued by EPA or an analogous state agency. Federal and state regulatory agencies can impose administrative, civil and criminal penalties for non-compliance with discharge permits or other requirements of the Clean Water Act and analogous state laws and regulations.
The Safe Drinking Water Act, or “SDWA”, and analogous state laws impose requirements relating to underground injection activities. Under these laws, the EPA and state environmental agencies have adopted regulations relating to permitting, testing, monitoring, record keeping and reporting of injection well activities, as well as prohibitions against the migration of injected fluids into underground sources of drinking water.
Air emissions . The Federal Clean Air Act and comparable state laws regulate emissions of various air pollutants through air emissions permitting programs and the imposition of other requirements. In addition, EPA and certain states have developed and continue to develop stringent regulations governing emissions of toxic air pollutants at specified sources. Federal and state regulatory agencies can impose administrative, civil and criminal penalties for non-compliance with air permits or other requirements of the Federal Clean Air Act and analogous state laws and regulations.
The Kyoto Protocol to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change became effective in February 2005. Under the Protocol, participating nations are required to implement programs to reduce emissions of certain gases, generally referred to as greenhouse gases that are suspected of contributing to global warming. The United States is not currently a participant in the Protocol, and Congress has not acted upon recent proposed legislation directed at reducing greenhouse gas emissions. However, there has been support in various regions of the country for legislation that requires reductions in greenhouse gas emissions, and some states have already adopted legislation addressing greenhouse gas emissions from various sources, primarily power plants. The oil and natural gas industry is a direct source of certain greenhouse gas emissions, namely carbon dioxide and methane, and future restrictions on such emissions could impact our future operations.
National Environmental Policy Act. Oil and natural gas exploration and production activities on federal lands are subject to the National Environmental Policy Act, or “NEPA”. NEPA requires federal agencies, including the Department of Interior, to evaluate major agency actions that have the potential to significantly impact the environment. In the course of such evaluations, an agency will prepare an Environmental Assessment that assesses the potential direct, indirect and cumulative impacts of a proposed project and, if necessary, will prepare a more detailed Environmental Impact Statement that may be made available for public review and comment. All exploration and production activities on federal lands require governmental permits that are subject to the requirements of NEPA. This process has the potential to delay the development of oil and natural gas projects on federal lands.
Health safety and disclosure regulation . We are subject to the requirements of the federal Occupational Safety and Health Act, or “OSHA” and comparable state statutes. The OSHA hazard communication standard, the Emergency Planning and Community Right to Know Act and similar state statutes require that we organize and/or disclose information about hazardous materials stored, used or produced in our operations.
We expect to incur capital and other expenditures related to environmental compliance. Although we believe that our compliance with existing requirements will not have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations, we cannot assure you that the passage of more stringent laws or regulations in the future will not have a negative impact on our financial position or results of operation.
ITEM LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
The Company is subject to litigation and claims that have arisen in the ordinary course of business, the majority of which have resulted from its thorough restructuring efforts. Many of these claims have been resolved. Management believes individually such litigation and claims will not have a material adverse impact on our financial position or our results of operations but these matters are subject to inherent uncertainties and management’s view may change in the future. If an unfavorable final outcome were to occur, there exists the possibility of a material impact on our financial position and the results of operations for the period in which the effect becomes reasonably estimable.
The following describes legal action being pursued against the Company outside the ordinary course of business:
·
In the suit, Raymond Thomas, et al. vs. Ashley Investment Company, et al., in the 5th Judicial District Court for Richmond Parish, Louisiana, numerous present and former owners of property are seeking damages in an unspecified amount for alleged soil, groundwater and other contamination, allegedly resulting from oil and gas operations of multiple companies in the Delhi Field in Richmond Parish, Louisiana over a time period exceeding fifty years. Originally consisting of 14,000 acres upon discovery of the field in 1952, the Company acquired an interest in leases covering 1,400 acres in 2006. Although the suit was filed in 2005, and was pending when the Company acquired its interest in 2006, as part of the acquisition terms, the Company agreed to indemnify predecessors in title, including its grantor, against ultimate damages related to the prior operations, with the exception of Sun Oil, which is now Anadarko. As part of the Company’s purchase terms, a Site Specific Trust Account was established with the State of Louisiana Department of Natural Resources intended to provide funds for remediation of the lands involved in its acquired interest. Principal defendants in the suit, in addition to the Company, include the Company’s indemnities including McGowan Working Partners, MWP North La, LLC., Murphy Exploration & Production Company, Ashley Investment Company, Eland Energy, Inc. and Delhi Package I, Ltd. The Company believes that it has meritorious defenses with regard to the plaintiffs’ claims and, thus, with regard to the extent of its monetary exposure under its indemnity obligation. The Company has and continues to defend the suit vigorously. Maxim has paid over $500,000 to pay legal fees and remediation costs. The central issue is contamination of the groundwater at the Delhi Field. Plaintiffs are landowners that claim the groundwater is polluted and needs to be extracted from the ground through a pumping process and disposed of remotely. Plaintiff has made a settlement offer to the Company of $6 million, which was rejected. The plaintiffs made a second settlement offer of $3 million. The Company counter offered to pay for the remediation but no cash in addition to the remediation costs under 29-B standards. No settlement has been reached. A trial date has been set for July 1, 2009. The company, with the legal fees and remediation already done and in process, believes its future exposure will be only legal bills and minor remediation. The Company granted McGowan Working Partners a first mortgage position on the field as they have been representing the Company in the litigation and overseeing the remediation and they are a party the Company agreed to indemnify when it purchased the field from them. The Company believes its total exposure based upon information currently available is $750,000 which is currently accrued.
·
Vanguard Energy Services sued for $340,000 for use of their drilling rigs in 2006 and 2007. This $340,000 is an account payable and the Company is in the process of negotiating in conjunction with a suit filed against a sister company, Recompletion Financial Corporation.
·
Recompletion Financial Corporation is a sister company of Vanguard with the same legal representation. Recompletion was hired as a marketing and financial company to raise funds and the Company paid over a million dollars in 2005 with no work done. In addition, there is a breach of contract as they used and employed our proprietary technology barring them from certain geographical locations including China. They have been sued for breach of contract and misappropriating the Company’s property for $2,000,000.
·
In the suit, LFU Fort Pierce, Inc. d/b/a Labor Finders, our subsidiary Tiger Bend Drilling was sued for $284,988. This has been expensed in 2007 and is reflected in our accounts payable in 2008 and 2007.
·
Anthony Austin, a former employee, was let go in January 2008 after working 3 months and has filed a claim for $1,000,000. Mr. Austin’s attorney has since withdrawn from the case and on April 14, 2009, the court granted a motion for directed verdict in Maxim’s favor.
·
Don Shein, a former employee, is claiming back salary, severance expenses and commissions that do not coincide with our accounting and his employment contract. He also lent the Company $100,000. We have come to an agreement whereby Mr. Shein will extend his $100,000 loan and the Company will facilitate the issuance of 375,000 shares of the company’s common stock by a third party shareholder. The Company has accrued a liability and corresponding expense for $281,250, in addition to his $100,000 note.
·
The former CEO, Marvin Watson, is claiming expenses, past salary and severance in regards to his employment. The Company sees no merit in his claim and will defend itself vigorously.
·
The law firm Maloney Martin & Mitchell is seeking payment for services rendered with regards to the GEF/ South Belridge settlement. At this point the amount and probability of payment is not determinable.
ITEM 4