Item 2.
Properties
As the Vic Vein lapsed as of October 6, 2010, we no longer have any rights to explore for and extract minerals from the Vic Vein claim. We do not own any real property interest in any properties.
We currently use the office space of one of the directors of the Company totaling approximately 3,000 square feet in area for which we pay $Nil per month. Our office is located at 700 - 510 West Hastings Street, Vancouver, BC, V6B 1L8 and our telephone number is (604) 687-7130.
Our company deems this to be satisfactory at this time.
La Buena Project
Location and Access
The La Buena property (the “Property”) is located in northern Zacatecas, Mexico, approximately 2.4 miles North of Goldcorp's La Negra/Noche Buena resource area, 5.6 miles North of the Peñasquito mine, 5.5 miles west of the Dia Bras Las Coloradas resource area.
The Property is situated approximately 4.3 miles south of the town of Melchor Ocampo, approximately 24 miles northwest of the town of Concepcion del Oro, or 128 miles northeast of the state capital city of Zacatecas; within the northeastern part of the Concepcion del Oro Mining District. Its geographic centre is located at approximately 24o 45’ North latitude by 101o 47’ West longitude, or U.T.M. 2,741,250 North by 233,750 East; within Mexican map-sheet ‘Concepcion del Oro G14-10’.
Vehicular access is possible by driving southwesterly along Federal Highway 54 from the city of Saltillo in Coahuila State to the road junction just east of the city of Concepcion del Oro, and then northwest on a paved road to the town of Terminal de Providencia. From Terminal de Providenncia there is a pavement secondary road leading west-northwesterly to the town of Melchor Ocampo. The property is 4.3 miles south by gravel road from Melchor Ocampo. There are regularly scheduled commercial flights to Saltillo from the U.S.A. and other Mexican cities, and the driving time from Saltillo to Melchor Ocampo is approximately 2 ½ hours. Most of the Property is readily accessible year-round by four-wheel drive vehicle.
Ownership and Interest
On May 17, 2012, we entered into an Assignment Agreement with Skanderbeg Capital Partners Inc. (“Skanderbeg”), whereby Skanderbeg assigned to us its option to purchase an undivided 50% interest in the “La Buena Project”. The assigned option was first acquired by Skanderbeg from San Marco pursuant to an Option Agreement dated February 28, 2012. In consideration of the assignment we have paid $100,000 to Skanderbeg. On August 2, 2012, by Amending Agreement among our Company, Skanderbeg and San Marco, we replaced Skanderbeg and assumed its rights obligations as a party to the Option Agreement.
In order to exercise the option we may issue up to 2,500,000 restricted shares of common stock and pay an aggregate of $6,300,000 in option fees and exploration financing to San Marco in accordance with the following schedule:
·
1,000,000 common shares by May 31, 2012 (issued);
·
500,000 common shares, $100,000 in option fees, and $1,000,000 in exploration financing by December 31, 2012;
·
1,000,000 common shares, $100,000 in option fees, and $500,000 in exploration financing by December 31, 2013; and
·
1,000,000 common shares, $100,000 in option fees and $4,500,000 in exploration financing by December 31, 2014.
To date, Skanderbeg has paid an additional $100,000 in option fees to San Marco pursuant to the Option Agreement. The Option Agreement provides that, in the event we exercise the option, the La Buena Project property will be held in a Mexican corporation to be owned equally by San Marco and our Company subject to the terms of a joint venture agreement. The parties shall each hold a 50% interest upon exercise of the option which interest shall be adjusted proportionately with each party’s financing contributions to subsequent operating and exploration costs. If either parties ownership interest is adjusted to below 10% that interest will be converted to a 10% net profit royalty interest. San Marco shall be responsible for executing all operations in respect of the property. The joint interest in the property shall be subject to a variable net-returns royalty from the exploitation of the property payable to Golden Minerals Company of Golden, Colorado. The royalty shall be a minimum of 1.5% of net-returns if the then current market price of gold is equal to less than $800 per ounce and shall be adjusted proportionately up to 2.5% if the then current market price of gold rise between $800 per ounce and above $950 per ounce.
The Option Agreement shall terminate upon any failure by our Company to timely fulfill any payment obligations under the agreement. We may also terminate the agreement at any time with 30 days notice to San Marco.
The Property is comprised of three mineral concessions that are entirely owned and operated by San Marco. The La Buena (Title No. 235566, 602.997 ha), La Pinta 06 (Title No. 229764, 7875.24 ha) and La Pinta 15 Fracc II (Title No. 235623, 21.7473 ha) cover 8,500 hectares or approximately 24,000 acres. The surface rights to the area covered by the mineral concessions belong to four ejidos. An ejido is a communally owned and administered area of land primarily used for agricultural purposes. San Marco has obtained surface use agreements with three of the four ejidos which span the concessions. The terms of three negotiated surface agreement are as follows:
·
A 3-year agreement with the Melchor Ocamp Ejidos has anniversary dates of May 5, 2012, 2013 and 2014. A payment of 8,000 pesos is due on each anniversary date and San Marco will pay the ejidos 2,000 pesos ($150) for each drill holes collared within the ejidos;
·
A 3-year agreement with the Las Crucitas Ejidos has anniversary dates of July 11, 2012, 2013 and 2014. A payment of 9,000 pesos ($675) is due on each anniversary date and San Marco will pay the ejidos 2,000 pesos ($150) for each drill pad excavated within the ejidos and any road construction will be assessed at 1,000 pesos ($75) per kilometer (0.6 miles) ; and
·
A 5-year agreement with the El Jaguey Ejidos has anniversary dates of July 11, 2012, 2013, 2014, 2015 and 2016. A payment of 10,000 pesos($750) is due on each anniversary date and San Marco will pay the ejidos 3,000 pesos ($225) for each drill pad excavated within the ejidos and any road construction will be assessed at 1,000 pesos ($75) per kilometer (0.6 miles).
The Los Novillos Ejidos in the southeastern part of the Property has not yet agreed to any surface disturbances by San Marco within their jurisdiction.
History of Operations
The State of Zacatecas, Mexico was founded in 1546 after the discovery of silver vein systems; although, it likely experienced some pre-Hispanic mining. Within a century afterwards, Zacatecas became Mexico’s largest silver producer, and the city was the second largest in the country after Mexico City. As with many other mining
districts in Mexico, production ceased during the Mexican Revolution of 1910 to 1917 but resumed in some areas by about 1936. Historic silver production estimates exceed 1.5 billion ounces from the State, and 750 million ounces from the Zacatecas district.
The Mesa Central region of Zacatecas State has experienced many periods of exploration and mining since the Spaniards. Recent exploration activity led to the discovery, exploration and development of the Peñasquito gold-silver-lead-zinc mine and nearby Noche Buena project, both owned and operated by Goldcorp Inc. The Peñasquito property has two main deposits, called Peñasco and Chile Colorado that are being mined by open pit.
The La Buena property was acquired by San Marco shortly after the discovery and initial exploration of the nearby Camino Rojo gold-silver deposit by Canplats Resources Corporation in 2007. There have undoubtedly been periods of historic to recent exploration and artisanal mining throughout this area but any work prior to San Marco’s acquisition of the property is undocumented.
Present Condition
San Marco currently has an environmental drill permit to construct new access roads and drill sites and drill within the Julia Ridge zone of the Property. Any future road construction, trenching and/or drilling elsewhere on the Property will require appropriate exploration permits and reclamation commitments for such work.
Plan of Exploration
In an Executive Summary of the property prepared by Minorex Consulting Ltd. for San Marco with respect to the La Buena Project related to the Julia and San Lucas Ridge zones, Minorex Consulting Ltd. recommended that six diamond drill holes be drilled to initially test both the Julia and San Lucas Ridge zones. Three holes would be directed at the buried chargeability anomaly on the Julia zone and the other three holes would be directed at the low resistivity anomalies on the San Lucas zone. It is estimated that this 2,000 metres of drilling plus later documentation would cost US $400,000.
At the present time, San Marco, as operator of the Property, proposes the following exploration plan which is dependent upon the availability of adequate financing:
NATURE OF WORK
TIME FRAME
COST
Drill Holes - A total of 4,000m of drilling spanning 8 holes with an average depth of 500m per hole:
- 2,000m at the Julia zone;
- 2,000m at the San Lucas zone
12 months
1,100,000
Drill Hole Assaying
12 months
200,000
Julia Zone Plan of Exploration
Based upon the 2011 geophysical and geochemical results, three diamond drill holes are proposed to initially test the chargeability (the capacity for material to hold an electrical charge) and resistivity (the capacity for material to resist an electrical charge) of the minerals that are situated directly beneath the gold-in-soil geochemical anomaly corresponding with the hornfelsed Caracol Formation metasedimentary rocks intruded by hydrothermally-altered granitic intrusions. The three proposed drill holes would be separated and inclined along the northeasterly trend of the geophysical anomaly to better test its extent.
The above illustration, after Witter and Rastad (2011), shows the Julia zone looking eastward with the green ovoid body being the chargeability high and the high magnetics shown in purple. The chargeability anomaly appears to be reflecting a sulphide-rich zone or cupola above a buried granitic stock with magnetic diatremes extending upward from the periphery of the stock. The traces of the proposed drill hole are shown with DDH # 2 on the right, DDH #1 in the centre and DDH # 3 to the left. The pertinent data for these proposed diamond drill holes are as follows.
The pertinent data for these proposed diamond drill holes are as follows.
San Lucas Ridge Zone Plan of Exploration
Three diamond drill holes are proposed to testthe coincidental geological, geochemical and geophysical anomalies of the San Lucas Ridge zone. The primary target is the buried low resistivity anomaly beneath the folded, high resistivity carbonate rocks. The proposed collars for two of the drill holes (#4 and #6) lie on the southern flank of San Lucas ridge and directed to the north targeting low resistivity anomalies. The proposed collar for drill hole #5 is located on the north flank of the ridge and directed to the southwest, also targeting a low resistivity anomaly.
The following illustration, modified after Witter and Rastad (2011), shows the three proposed drill holes penetrating the near surface, high resistivity carapace (shown in red) to intersect the low resistivity (blue) and flanking moderate chargeability anomalies (green).
Geology
Index of Geologic Terms
Term
Definition
Argillic facies
The argillic facies comprises the propylitic, montmorillonitic, and kaolinitic types, and the phyllic facies the muscovitic and biotitic types. Generally each type of alteration characterizes a subzone of alteration that bears consistent relationships to neighboring zones and to a presumed source of heat and altering fluids. These relationships also are in full accord with the inferred physical-chemical requirements of the corresponding facies.
Anticlinal
An anticline is a fold that is convex up and has its oldest beds at its core.
Calcalkaline
The diverse rock types in the calc-alkaline series include volcanic types such as basalt, andesite, dacite, rhyolite, and also their coarser-grained intrusive equivalents (gabbro, diorite, granodiorite, and granite). They do not include silica-undersaturated, alkalic, or peralkaline rocks.
Term
Definition
Calcareous
Calcareous is an adjective meaning mostly or partly composed of calcium carbonate, in other words, containing lime or being chalky.
Carbonaceous
Carbonaceous is the defining attribute of a substance rich in carbon. Particularly, carbonaceous hydrocarbons are very unsaturated, high-molecular-weight hydrocarbons, having an elevated carbon:hydrogen ratio.
Laramide orogeny
The Laramide orogeny was a period of mountain building in western North America, which started in the Late Cretaceous, 70 to 80 million years ago, and ended 35 to 55 million years ago. The major feature that was created by this orogeny was deep-seated, thick-skinned deformation, with evidence of this orogeny found from Canada to northern Mexico, with the easternmost extent of the mountain-building.
Cretaceous-age
The Cretaceous, derived from the Latin "creta" (chalk), is a geologic period and system from circa 145.5 to 65.5 million years ago. In the geologic timescale, the Cretaceous follows the Jurassic period and is followed by the Paleogene period of the Cenozoic era. In many languages this period is known as "chalk period".
Flysch
Flysch is a sequence of sedimentary rocks that is deposited in a deep marine facies in the foreland basin of a developing orogen. Flysch is typically deposited during an early stage of the orogenesis. When the orogen evolves the foreland basin becomes shallower and molasse is deposited on top of the flysch. It is therefore called a syn-orogenic sediment (deposited contemporaneously with mountain building).
Geosyncline
A subsiding linear trough that was caused by the accumulation of sedimentary rock strata deposited in a basin and subsequently compressed, deformed, and uplifted into a mountain range, with attendant volcanism and plutonism.
Granodioritic
An intrusive igneous rock similar to granite, but containing more plagioclase than orthoclase-type feldspar. Officially, it is defined as a phaneritic igneous rock with greater than 20% quartz by volume where at least 65% of the feldspar is plagioclase.
Hornfels
Hornfels is the group designation for a series of contact metamorphic rocks that have been baked and indurated by the heat of intrusive igneous masses and have been rendered massive, hard, splintery, and in some cases exceedingly tough and durable. The most common hornfels (the biotite hornfelses) are dark-brown to black with a somewhat velvety luster owing to the abundance of small crystals of shining black mica.
Jurassic
The Jurassic is a geologic period and system that extends from about 199.6 to 145.5 million years ago, that is, from the end of the Triassic to the beginning of the Cretaceous. The Jurassic constitutes the middle period of the Mesozoic era, also known as the age of reptiles. The start of the period is marked by the major Triassic-Jurassic extinction event. However, the end of the period did not witness any major extinction event. The Jurassic is named after the Jura Mountains within the European Alps, where limestone strata from the period was first identified.
Limestone
Limestone is a sedimentary rock composed largely of the minerals calcite and aragonite, which are different crystal forms of calcium carbonate. Many limestones are composed from skeletal fragments of marine organisms such as coral or foraminifera.
Magnetite
Magnetite is a ferrimagnetic mineral, one of several iron oxides and a member of the spinel group. Magnetite is the most magnetic of all the naturally occurring minerals on Earth.
Metasediment
Metasediment is sediment or sedimentary rock that shows evidence of having been subjected to metamorphism. The overall composition of a metasediment can be used to identify the original sedimentary rock, even where they have been subject to high-grade metamorphism and intense deformation.
Metasomatized
Metasomatism is the chemical alteration of a rock by hydrothermal and other fluids.
Mesozoic
The Mesozoic Era is an interval of geological time from about 250 to 65 million years ago. It is often referred to as the Age of Reptiles because reptiles, namely dinosaurs, were the dominant terrestrial and marine vertebrates of the time. The era began in the wake of the Permian-Triassic event, the largest mass extinction in Earth's history, and ended with the Cretaceous-Paleogene extinction event, another mass extinction which is known for having killed off non-avian dinosaurs, as well as other plant and animal species. The Mesozoic was a time of significant tectonic, climate and evolutionary activity. The era witnessed the gradual rifting of the supercontinent Pangaea into separate landmasses that would eventually move into their current positions.
Term
Definition
Monzonitic
Monzonite is an intermediate igneous intrusive rock composed of approximately equal amounts of sodic to intermediate plagioclase and orthoclase feldspars with minor amounts of hornblende, biotite and other minerals. Quartz a minor constituent or is absent; with greater than 5% quartz the rock is termed a quartz monzonite
Mudstone
Mudstone is a fine grained sedimentary rock whose original constituents were clays or muds. Grain size is up to 0.0625 mm (0.0025 in) with individual grains too small to be distinguished without a microscope. Mud rocks, such as mudstone and shale comprise some 65% of all sedimentary rocks. Mudstone looks like hardened clay and, depending upon circumstances under which it was formed, it may show cracks or fissures, like a sun-baked clay deposit.
Sandstone
Sandstone (sometimes known as arenite) is a clastic sedimentary rock composed mainly of sand-sized minerals or rock grains. Most sandstone is composed of quartz and/or feldspar because these are the most common minerals in the Earth's crust.
Siltstone
Siltstone is a clastic sedimentary rock. As its name implies, it is primarily composed of silt sized particles. Siltstones differ significantly from sandstones due to their smaller pores and higher propensity for containing a significant clay fraction
The Property is situated within the Concepciòn del Oro district that is regionally underlain by the Mexico Geosyncline, a Jurassic to Cretaceous-age, shelf-margin, carbonate sequence that sits unconformably on a basement of metamorphic rocks and is conformably overlain by a back-arc successor basin of Cretaceous-age marine siltstone-sandstone flysch origin. Finely-laminated, fine-grained calcareous, carbonaceous siltstone, sandstone and mudstone, belonging to the early to middle Cretaceous Caracol Formation, underlie most of the Property. These rocks are underlain by a bedded sequence of silty to sandy limestone, possibly belonging to the Upper Jurassic platform limestone units of the Zualoga to Cuesta de Cura Formations. The Mesozoic calcareous country rocks have been locally intruded by several varieties of hydrothermally-altered monzonitic and granodioritic dykes, indicative of an advanced hydrothermal system spatially and genetically related to possibly a multi-phase, buried calcalkaline stock (Soto, 2011).
During Late Cretaceous to Early Tertiary time northcentral Mexico was subjected to the compressional Laramide orogeny which regionally folded the metasedimentary sequence. Later in Eocene time the compressive folding shifted to translational faulting resulting in regional northwesterly striking fold structures being displaced by right-lateral offset and renewed extension. Thus, normal and thrust faults associated with the folded metasedimentary structures are important conduits for intrusions and associated precious metal mineralization. The southern Concepciòn del Oro district covers a series of subparallel sierras that generally strike east-west and curve southward. Several of these sierras are anticlines or limbs of anticlines that have Jurassic to Cretaceous-age limestone cores and separate by synclinal valleys underlain by Mesozoic metasedimentary rocks.
According to Servicios Geologico de Mexico (2006), the extreme northern and southern portions of the Property are underlain by or immediately adjacent to two major west-northwesterly trending overturned anticlines, and regional mapping shows the central portion of the Property covers a similarly-oriented anticlinal structure beneath alluvium at the Julia zone. Several folded anticlinal structures and associated faulting represent excellent exploration targets for intrusive-related precious metal mineralization.
Mineral Zones and Showings
Over the past three years San Marco has focused their exploration work on several selected areas within the Property. Based upon 2010 induced polarization (‘IP’) and magnetics, soil geochemical and trenching results, San Marco contracted S J Geophysics in 2011 to conduct IP surveys over the five areas, called the Julia, San Lucas Ridge, North Julia, Las Crucitas and El Jaguey (Southwest) zones. This work has identified the Julia and San Lucas Ridge zones as two high priority drilling targets for future evaluation.
Both the Julia and San Lucas Ridge zones have favorable geological settings for intrusion related gold-silver mineralization, plus coincident anomalous gold, base metal and indicator element soil geochemistry and combined magnetics and I.P. anomalies. The following illustration shows the locations of each zone of interest with the 2010 and 2011 geophysical survey grids overlying the property-wide airborne vertical gradient magnetics results.
Julia Zone
The Julia zone is dominantly underlain by finely-laminated, fine grained calcareous, siltstone, sandstone and mudstone of the Late Cretaceous Caracol Formation that have been hornfelsed by several local monzonitic and granodioritic dykes. The metasedimentary rocks locally strike 345o and dip -65o northeastwardly. The granodioritic and monzonitic dykes are hydrothermally-altered to argillic facies and they have metasomatized the calcareous country rocks producing magnetite-bearing hornfelsed alteration envelopes with local quartz-pyrite veining often along bedding planes.
Soil geochemical sampling and trenching over the Julia zone has identified high gold-in-soil and gold-in-rocks geochemical signature spatially situated within the area of the hornfelsed metasedimentary rocks and dykes. The highest gold-in-soil values are also central to high airborne and ground magnetic and IP anomalies.
In 2010 San Marco retained S J Geophysics to carry out a limited IP survey over the Julia zone. Based upon the 2010 soil geochemical survey and IP survey results San Marco excavated 11 trenches in the Julia zone to expose and sample the bedrock. The results of this work encouraged San Marco to continue exploration of this zone with a detailed ground magnetic survey and contract S J Geophysics to infill and extend the IP coverage over the Julia zone and extend their IP survey to the north, called the Julia North zone. The ground magnetics survey results were analyzed, inverted and spatially integrated with the IP data by S J Geophsyics. According to Witter and Rastad (2011), the Julia zone has a series of resistant hills forming a ‘horseshoe-shaped’ area that is open to the southwest. At a depth of 50 to 200 m beneath the middle of this area there is a significant resistivity low anomaly. The highest resistivity values are situated around the periphery of this area with the highest values coincident with the mapped quartz-infilled shear zone in the Julia zone and an exposure of monzonitic dyke. There are two primary chargeability high anomalies at the Julia zone: one which lies in the middle of the horseshoe and another, which is smaller, that lies at the mouth of the horseshoe. The larger of the two anomalies is situated at a depth of 100 to 300 m and the smaller extends over a more limited range of only 100 to 150 m deep (Witter and Rastad, 2011). The following figures show the resistivity and chargeability results over the Julia zone with the trace of the aforementioned ‘horse-shaped’ area (modified after Witter and Rastad, 2011).
Based upon the 2011 geophysical and geochemical results, three diamond drill holes are proposed to initially test the chargeability high and resistivity low that are situated directly beneath the gold-in-soil geochemical anomaly corresponding with the hornfelsed Caracol Formation metasedimentary rocks intruded by hydrothermally-altered granitic intrusions. The three proposed drill holes would be separated and inclined along the northeasterly trend of the geophysical anomaly to better test its extent.
San Lucas Ridge Zone
The San Lucas Ridge zone is underlain by a west-northwesterly trending overturned anticline cored by older Upper Jurassic-age platform carbonate rocks (i.e. Zuloga or La Pena Formations) that are overlain by early to middle Cretaceous Carocol Formation calcareous, fine-grained metasedimentary rocks. Several fault and shear structures subparallel the folded structure providing potential conduits for intrusions and precious metal mineralization.
According to SGM (2007) and Soto (2011), the limestones capping San Lucas ridge have been locally metasomatized and decalcified indicating possibly buried intrusions in the core of the folded sequence. East of the Property, there are old shafts and underground workings that have been driven to explore for gold mineralization associated with argillically-altered monzonitic dykes that have intruded the folded calcareous rocks.
Recent soil sampling results show the San Lucas zone reflected by large circular arsenic and antimony anomalies within which rock geochemical sampling has returned interesting gold values ranging from 0.1 to 0.5 gpt gold. Furthermore, both Kennecott (original discover of the Penasquito mineralization) and Diabrass have drill tested the folded carbonate rocks east of the Property and reportedly intersected interesting base and precious metal mineralization (Soto, 2011).
The results of S J Geophysics’ IP survey of the San Lucas Ridge zone found a very high resistivity carapace, 50 to 100 m thick, covering the crest and flanks of San Lucas ridge. This high resistivity corresponds to the area underlain by the core and flanks of the anticlinallyfolded limestone and calcareous metasediments. However, beneath this high resistivity there is very low resistivity which may reflect a mineralized intrusion or fault structure (Witter and Rastad, 2011).
Recent exploration of the La Buena property has discovered coincident geological, geochemical and geophysical anomalies within the Julia and San Lucas Ridge zones. The 2011 geophysical and geochemical surveys have identified a buried chargeability high and coincident resistivity low directly beneath a large gold-in-soil
geochemical anomaly on the Julia zone. The anomalous geophysical results and gold soil geochemistry corresponds with the mapped extent of hornfelsed metasedimentary rocks that have been intruded by hydrothermally-altered granitic intrusions hosting geochemically significant gold mineralization.
The IP survey of the San Lucas Ridge zone discovered high resistivity, folded limestone and calcareous metasediments covering a very low resistivity anomaly that may reflect a buried mineralized intrusion or structure. The geophysical anomaly lies beneath an area with highly anomalous arsenic and antimony soil geochemistry and many old underground workings along trend that were excavated to explore for gold-bearing mineralization.
This property has excellent exploration potential and its continued exploration is certainly warranted.
Item 3.