ITEM 2.
PROPERTIES.
Our executive offices are located at Jorge Canning 1410, Ñuñoa, Santiago, Chile. We are provided space at this location by Contratista en Geologia, Mineria y Construccion Jorge Orellana E.I.R.L., or Geominco, a company wholly-owned by our Chief Executive Officer, Jorge Osvaldo Orellana Orellana. At present, we do not pay any rent for this office space.
Additionally, we hold an interest in 7 groups of properties, as described below:
At present, only our MINI plant located in Matancilla is material to our ongoing operations. We anticipate that we will construct additional MINI plants and commence operations at our properties located in Salamanca in early 2012 and Combarbala and Camisa in 2013. We anticipate that we will construct MINI plants and commence operations at our properties located in Chincolco, Cerrado and Cabildo in 2014. Additionally, we are currently in negotiations to purchase property rights at a site in Panulcillo, and we anticipate that we will be able to commence construction of a MINI plant on this site in 2013.
The following descriptions are of our properties which are material to our operations currently and through the next twelve months.
Matancilla
Our Matancilla property is located in the Coquimbo Region (Region IV) of central Chile, South America. Our Ana Maria facility is located on our Matancilla property. The property comprises 21 concessions totalling 4,050 hectares situated in the Illapel municipality of the province of Choapa. This property is located approximately 170 km southeast of the city of La Serena, the largest city and capital of the Coquimbo Region. La Serena is located about 400 km north of Santiago, the capital city of Chile.
Access to the Matancilla property is by 255 km of paved and gravel road from La Serena, the capital of the Coquimbo Region. The Pan American Highway (Highway 5) leads 200 km south along the Pacific Coast from La Serena to the town of Puerto Oscuro. A second paved highway (Route D-71) then leads first east and then southeast for about 73 km, past the towns of Canela Baja and Cocoú to the turnoff for the project near the edge of the Las Chinchillas National Reserve. The town of Matancilla and the Ana Maria complex are reached by about 15 km of gravel road (Routes D-797 and D-793) that runs north and east from the Route D-71 turnoff. All roads are operational year-round.
The Matancilla property consists of 16 exploration and exploitation concessions owned by us, totaling 2,500 hectares. Nine of the 16 concessions are exploitation concessions, and the remaining seven are exploration concessions. All concessions are under application. The annual license fees for all exploration and exploitation concessions are paid through March 2011. We own the surface rights to the concession hosting the Ana Maria complex (RELA 1 1/10), but only hold the subsurface rights to the other concessions. The property has not yet been legally surveyed. The concessions are listed in the table below.
We have not conducted, nor do we intend to conduct, an evaluation of the proven or probable reserves related to the mining concessions located at the Matancilla property. The majority of the source material processed at the Ana Maria plant will be ore purchased from third-parties.
Because of the planned process plant throughput of less than 5,000 metric tons per month at our Matancilla property, no environmental permits are required by the Chilean government.
With respect to exploration concessions, in Chile the titleholder has the right to carry out all forms of exploration activities within the area of the concession. Exploration concessions can overlap, but only the titleholder with the earliest dated exploration concession over the area as indicated by their identification number, or ROL, can exercise these rights. For each exploration concession, the titleholder must pay an annual fee of US$1.10 per hectare to the Chilean Treasury. Exploration concessions have a duration of two years. At the end of this period, the concession may be renewed for two more years, in which case at least 50% of the surface area must be renounced; or converted, in total or in part, into exploitation concessions.
With respect to exploitation concessions, in Chile the titleholder has the right to explore and exploit the minerals located within the concession area and to take ownership of the extracted minerals. Exploration concessions can overlap, but only the titleholder with the earliest dated exploration concession over the area can exercise these rights. The titleholder must pay an annual fee to the Chilean Treasury of approximately US$5.80 per hectare. Exploitation concessions are of indefinite duration, and therefore do not expire.
Concession owners do not necessarily have surface rights to the underlying land, however they do have the right to explore or exploit the concession.
We have access to sufficient sources of power and water (potable and for use in our copper reclamation process) for our expected operations at our Matancilla property.
Historical Operations on Property
The Ana Maria flotation plant began operations in 1968, processing copper and gold mineralization from the nearby Sara and Nueva Verde small-scale copper mines. The town of Matancilla was established to support the nearby mining activity and the operation of the Ana Maria plant. The plant was owned and operated by Mr. Geraldo Toro Araya. Tailings from the plant were diverted into two tailings dams, the first located south and downhill of the plant and named Ana Maria Sur, and the second located north and slightly uphill from the plant and named Ana Maria Norte. The Ana Maria Sur tailings dam served from initial production until 1987, when tailings were deposited into Ana Maria Norte until the plant ceased operation around 1999.
Capacity
Following an increase in capacity between May and July 2010, we expect that the Ana Maria plant will be able to produce 2,225 metric tons per year of copper cathodes, and that it will be expandable to 7,500 metric tons per year. The plant is still in the commissioning phase as of the date of this report and the first cathodes are being produced.
Salamanca
Our Salamanca property is located in the Coquimbo Region (Region IV) of central Chile, South America. Our Filomena facility is located on this property. This property comprises private land holdings, or the Araya Lands, which we own that host our Filomena plant and tailings deposits, and 17 concessions that host our hard-rock prospects, together which total approximately 3,762 hectares. The property situated in the municipality of Salamanca in the province of Choapa. The property is located approximately 200 km southeast of the city of La Serena, the largest city and capital of the Coquimbo Region. La Serena is located about 400 km north of Santiago, the capital city of Chile.
Access to the Salamanca property is by 315 km of paved and gravel road from La Serena, the capital of the Coquimbo Region. The Pan American Highway (Highway 5) leads 200 km south along the Pacific Coast from La Serena to the town of Puerto Oscuro. A second paved highway (Routes D-71 and D-81) then leads first east and then southeast for about 103 km, past the towns of Canela Baja and Illapel to the town of Salamanca. The Filomena plant and Arboleda tailings deposit are reached by about 10 km of paved and gravel road that runs east from the Route D-81 turnoff. All roads are operational year-round. A number of daily scheduled jet air services fly between La Serena and Santiago.
The Salamanca property consists of the Araya Lands on which we hold the surface rights only, and 17 exploration and exploitation concessions owned by us, totaling 3,738 hectares. The Araya Lands consist of four parcels totaling approximately 24 hectares. We purchased the Araya Lands from Gerardo Jaime Toro Araya on February 4, 2009 for 100 million Chilean pesos, or approximately $187,000. Five of the 17 concessions are exploitation concessions, and the remaining 12 are exploration concessions. All concessions are under application. The annual license fees for all exploration and exploitation concessions are paid through March 2011. We own the surface rights to the properties hosting the Filomena complex, but only hold the subsurface rights to the other concessions. The property has not yet been legally surveyed. The properties and concessions are listed in the following table.
We have not conducted, nor do we intend to conduct, an evaluation of the proven or probable reserves related to the mining concessions located at the Salamanca property. The majority of the source material processed at the Filomena plant will be ore purchased from third-parties.
We acquired the Araya Lands that host the historical Filomena plant and the Arboleda Planta tailings deposit in February 2008. We applied for the 17 concessions that with the Araya Lands make up the Salamanca property from July 2008 to March 2009. These concessions are currently under application.
No encumbrances are registered on the properties or concessions and they are not affected by the payment of royalties or other obligations in favor of third parties. Because of the planned process plant throughput of less than 5,000 metric tons per month, no environmental permits are required by the Chilean government.
Plant, Equipment, and Cost of Property
At present, we have commenced construction of our MINI plant facility at the Salamanca property. We anticipate that the plant will be complete and we will commence operations in early-2012. As mentioned elsewhere in this report, we estimate that it will cost approximately $2.5 million to construct the MINI plant.
Historical Operations on Property
Small-scale exploration and mining has occurred in the Salamanca property area from the early 20th century, and likely long before. Copper and gold prospect pits and workings occur in many locations throughout the property area.
Remnants of the historical Filomena processing plant occur on the property, but no information remains regarding the history of the plant. Stockpiles and the tailings deposits are located to the east of the plant. The plant likely processed copper material from local small-scale mines. Production records are not available for the plant, but approximately 9,000 metric tons of material is considered reasonable based upon recent volume estimates of the tailings deposit. The grade of the material processed at the plant is not known.
Development and Capacity of Property
Existing infrastructure at the Salamanca property includes the remnants of the historical Filomena flotation plant, that we are modifying to include a solvent-extraction/electrowinning circuit. This modification is being constructed as of the date of this report. We are currently assembling a processing plant of the same type as the plant that is currently under construction at our Matancilla property, about 35 km northwest of the Filomena complex. Our plant at Filomena is located close to the Arboleda Planta tailings deposit and it is being built on the foundations of the historical plant. We expect that the plant will be able to produce 1,311 metric tons per year of copper cathodes, and it will be expandable to 7,500 metric tons per year. The plant will aim at treating a wide range of materials including tailings material and run-of-mine material from various small-scale producing mines in the region. In time, we may have an opportunity of processing mineralization sourced from small-scale workings in the vicinity of the property. These workings are held by third-parties, and there is no information currently available on potential tonnage, grade, or rate of supply of material from such workings. We have not yet undertaken any studies or testing to demonstrate acceptable metallurgical recoveries or operating costs for this plant. The plant is still in the commissioning phase and the first cathodes are being produced as of the date of this report.
Arica (Navidad Project)
Our Navidad Project consists of a number of properties which are situated 83km from the closest city, Arica. This property is located in the Arica and Parinacota Region (Region XV) of Northern Chile, South America. The Project comprises a number of private land holdings, which are owned by Minera San Carlos and Compania Minera Pascua. We have signed a 10 year lease with the property owner of Minera San Carlos and Compania Minera Pascua for 150 million Chilean pesos, or approximately $300,000. The lease provides our Company with the exclusive right to explore, exploit and process all ore extracted from the leased properties. The properties included are detailed below. They represent 10 concessions which total approximately 2,073 hectares. The properties are situated in the municipalities of Arica and Parinacota. The region of Arica is located about 1,700 km north of Santiago, the capital city of Chile and is on the border with Peru.
The distance between the main city of Arica and the complex of properties which comprise the Navidad Project is 83km km of paved and gravel road. Arica, which is located 1700 Km north from Santiago the country’s capital, and is served by daily flight service linking it to Antofagsta and Calama and then on to Santiago.
All 10 of the concessions comprising the Navidad Project are exploration and exploitation concessions. All concessions are current and approved, and the annual license fees for all exploration and exploitation concessions are paid through March 2011. The property has not yet been legally surveyed. The properties and concessions are listed in the following table.
We have not conducted, nor do we intend to conduct, an evaluation of the proven or probable reserves related to the mining concessions which are part of the Navidad Project. No encumbrances are registered on the properties or concessions and they are not affected by the payment of royalties or other obligations in favor of third parties. Because of the planned process plant throughput of less than 5,000 metric tons per month, no environmental permits are required by the Chilean government.
Plant, Equipment, and Cost of Property
At present, we have not commenced construction of our MINI plant facility at the Navidad property. We anticipate that we will begin constructing the plant in September 2012, and commence operations in early 2013. As mentioned elsewhere in this report, we estimate that it will cost approximately $2.5 million to construct the MINI plant. Once we begin construction, we will evaluate the property’s sources of power and water.
Historical Operations on Property
Extensive exploration and core sampling activity has taken place on these properties and studies are available to the company which we anticipate will allow the company to maximize its exploitation efficiency.
Development and Capacity of Property
There is no pre-existing infrastructure at these properties. It is our intention to capitalize on the favorable conditions provided by our lease to construct a MINI plant on the site. We expect that the plant will be able to produce 1,311 metric tons per year of copper cathodes, and will thereafter be expandable to 7,500 metric tons per year. The plant will aim at exclusively processing run-of-mine material from the leased properties. We have not yet undertaken any studies or testing to demonstrate acceptable metallurgical recoveries or operating costs for this plant.
Combarbalá
Location
Our Combarbalá property is located in the Coquimbo Region (Region IV) of central Chile, South America. The property comprises 12 concessions totaling 2,900 hectares situated in the municipality of Combarbalá in the province of Limarí. Our Gabriella facility is located on our Combarbalá property. The property is located approximately 140 km southeast of the city of La Serena, the largest city and capital of the Coquimbo Region. La Serena is located about 400 km north of Santiago, the capital city of Chile.
Access to the Combarbalá property is by 245 km of paved and gravel road from La Serena, the capital of the Coquimbo Region. The Pan American Highway (Highway 5) leads 200 km south along the Pacific Coast from La Serena to the town of Puerto Oscuro. Paved highway (Route D-71) then leads first east and then northeast for about 74 km, past the towns of Canela Baja and Los Pozos to the town of Combarbalá. The Gabriella tailings deposits are reached by about 6 km of paved road (D-605) that runs north and west from the Route D-71 turnoff. All roads are operational year-round.
The Combarbalá property consists of 12 exploration and exploitation concessions owned by the Company, totaling 2,900 hectares. Two of the 12 concessions are exploitation concessions, and the remaining 10 are exploration concessions. All concessions are under application. The annual license fees for all exploration and exploitation concessions are paid through March 2011. We own the subsurface rights to the concessions and do not hold the surface rights. The property has not yet been legally surveyed. The concessions are listed in the following table.
We have not conducted, nor do we intend to conduct, an evaluation of the proven or probable reserves related to the mining concessions located at the Combarbalá property. The majority of the source material processed at the Gabriella plant will be ore purchased from third-parties.
We acquired the Rela 2 1/10 and Rela 7 1/20 concessions that host the Gabriella tailings deposits in December 2008. We applied for the remaining 10 concessions that make up the Combarbalá property from March to June 2009. These concessions are currently under application.
No encumbrances are registered on the concessions and they are not affected by the payment of royalties or other obligations in favor of third parties.
Because of the planned process plant throughput of less than 5,000 metric tons per month, no environmental permits are required by the Chilean government.
Current Operations
At present, we have not commenced construction of our MINI plant facility at the Combarbala property. We anticipate that we will construct the plant and commence operations in 2013. As mentioned elsewhere in this report, we estimate that it will cost approximately $2.5 million to construct the MINI plant. Once we begin construction, we will evaluate the Combarbala property’s sources of power and water.
Historical Operations of Property
A flotation plant operated by ENAMI commenced operation at Combarbalá in 1976 to process copper ore from local small-scale mines. In 1979, Compania Minera Cerro Centinela took possession of the plant and processed the material for gold, silver and copper. Tailings from the plant were diverted into two tailings dams, Combarbalá Este and Combarbalá Oeste.
The plant operated until September, 1984 when it was closed and dismantled. Only the cement foundations of the plant buildings remain as of the date of this report.
Development of Property
We intend to build a processing plant of the same type as the plant which is currently under construction, located at our Matancilla property, about 40 km south of the Combarbalá property. The plant will be able to produce 1,311 metric tons per year of copper cathodes, and expandable to 7,500 metric tons per year. The plant will aim at treating a wide range of materials including tailings material and run-of-mine material from various small-scale producing mines in the region.
Camisa
Location
Our Camisa property is located in the Coquimbo Region (Region IV) of central Chile, South America. Camisa comprises 21 concessions totaling 5,100 hectares situated in the municipality of Salamanca in the province of Choapa. The Property is located approximately 230 km southeast of the city of La Serena, the largest city and capital of the Coquimbo Region. La Serena is located about 400 km northwest of Santiago, the capital city of Chile.
Access to the Camisa property is by 350 km of paved and gravel road from La Serena, the capital of the Coquimbo Region. The Pan American Highway (Highway 5) leads 200 km south along the Pacific Coast from La Serena to the town of Puerto Oscuro. A second paved highway (Routes D-71 and D-81) then leads first east and then southeast for about 103 km, past the towns of Canela Baja and Illapel to the town of Salamanca. The Los Peladeros tailings deposit is reached by about 45 km of paved and gravel road that runs west and south from the Route D-81 turnoff. All roads are operational year-round.
The Camisa property consists of 21 exploration and exploitation concessions owned by the Company, totaling 5,100 hectares. Two of the 21 concessions are exploitation concessions, and the remaining 19 are exploration concessions. All concessions are under application. The annual license fees for all exploration and exploitation concessions are paid through March 2011. We own the subsurface rights to the concessions and do not hold the surface rights. The property has not yet been legally surveyed. The concessions are listed in the following table:
We have not conducted, nor do we intend to conduct, an evaluation of the proven or probable reserves related to the mining concessions located at the Camisa property. The majority of the source material processed at the Camisa plant will be ore purchased from third-parties.
We acquired the CAMIZA 1/20 concession that hosts the Los Peladeros tailings deposit in November 2008. We applied for the remaining 20 concessions that make up the Camisa property from November 2008 to March 2009. These concessions are currently under application.
No encumbrances are registered on the concessions and they are not affected by the payment of royalties or other obligations in favor of third parties. Because of the planned process plant throughput of less than 5,000 metric tons per month, no environmental permits are required by the Chilean government.
Current Operations
At present, we have not commenced construction of our MINI plant facility at the Camisa property. We anticipate that we will construct the plant and commence operations in 2014. As mentioned elsewhere in this report, we estimate that it will cost approximately $2.5 million to construct the MINI plant. Once we begin construction, we will evaluate the Camisa’s property’s sources of power and water.
Historical Operations on Property
The surface tailings deposit originates from the historic crushing, milling, and processing of material at the Los Peladeros flotation processing plant from the Los Peladeros copper mine in the area. Production records are not available for the plant, but an estimate of approximately 52,000 metric tons of material over the life of the plant appears reasonable, based upon volume estimates of the tailings deposits. The grade of the material processed at the plant is not known.
The remnants of the flotation plant still exist, however the plant is currently inoperable. Only the cement foundations of the plant buildings remain as of the date of this report. It is not known when the historic Los Peladeros flotation plant began operations processing copper and gold mineralization from the Los Peladeros copper mine, however, it is known that the plant ceased operation in 1973. Tailings from the plant were diverted into a tailings dam, located to the southeast of the plant. The property is large enough to host any heap leach operations and tailings facilities that would be constructed as part of any development of the operation.
Development and Capacity of Property
We intend to build a processing plant of the same type as the plant that is currently under construction, located at our Matancilla property, about 65 km north of the Camisa property. We expect that any plant that may be constructed will be able to produce 1,311 metric tons per year of copper cathodes, and that it will be expandable to 7,500 metric tons per year.
ITEM 3.