Item 2. Description of Properties.
OFFICE FACILITIES
We were incorporated in the State of Delaware on February 15, 2008, and established an end of December fiscal year end. Our corporate headquarters is located at 1127 Webster Street, Suite 28, Oakland, CA 946076 and our telephone number is +1 (510) 343-6868. The Company leases such offices.
The Company leased an office space at Harbourview Horizon All-Suite Hotel Suite I-2005, 12 Hung Lok Road, Hunghom Bay, Kowloon, Hong Kong. We did not renew the lease after its expiration on January 29, 2013.
EXPLORATION PROPERTY
We have started the exploration activities on the property in the Philippines, MPSA 320-2010-XI, which was obtained through an assignment agreement with Oro East Mining Company Ltd.
PROPERTY HISTORY
MPSA 320-2010-XI (7,855 hectares, 19,401 acres) is a tenement claim situated on the outskirts of Davao City in the Philippines. The parcel was applied-registered with the MINES AND GEOSCIENCES BUREAU REGION XI “ MGB Region XI” on May 16, 1997.
DESCRIPTION OF CLAIMS
The Company acquired all exploration, extraction and production rights from Oro East Mining Company Ltd., a privately-held corporation organized under the laws of the Republic of the Philippines licensed for mine acquisition, exploration, and development.
Prior to the Company’s acquisition of its claims, Oro East Mining Company Ltd. did manual test-pitting, artisanal tunneling and trenching activities which indicated a weighted-average Copper (CU) grades of 2.763% Cu based on length (from 18 laboratory assays on rock samples collected). Based on the 18 samples analysis, the Au (gold) weighted-average analysis content was from 1.528 grams/ton based on length.
MPSA 320-2010-XI (7,855 hectares, 19,401 acres) is a tenement claim situated on the outskirts of Davao City in the Philippines. The parcel was applied-registered with the MGB Region XI on May 16, 1997. It is located in the municipalities of Lupon and Tarragona in the Davao Oriental Province, Island Region of Mindanao, Philippines. The project sites at Mt. Tagopo and Mt. Mayo are bounded by coordinates 7 degrees 01’00” to 7 degrees 05’ 00” latitude and 128 degrees 08’ 00” to 126 degrees 11’30” longitude and 7 degrees 02’30” to 7 degrees 08’30” latitude and 126 degrees 17’00” to 126 degrees 19’20” longitude. Oro-East has undergone exploration for copper and gold-bearing veins or structures in this area. These exploration targets are shallow, for vein-type copper and gold-bearing deposits. Copper, gold, and silver are the primary mineral targets in this claim, with lead and zinc as secondary targets.
These mineral claims are located beneath the Philippine Fault and the Pacific Rim tectonic belt, also known as the “Pacific Ring of Fire,” The Company has obtained full permitting under the Mineral Right Sharing Agreement (MRSA) with the Philippine Government which allows the Company to commence full scale exploration and production as of May 15, 2010 on MPSA 320-2010-XI.
Detailed Description of the Claims.
I.
INTRODUCTION
Semi-detailed geological mapping using compass and tape method backed by Global Positioning System (GPS) was conducted by Agetro Davao Mapping Team from June 29, 2008 to August 27, 2008 at the 4,939 hectares of Oro East Mining Claim dominated as MPSA 320-2010-XI -184-XI Parcel II. The geological mapping was undertaken to confirm actual location of the copper ore bodies, gold vein system, alteration zones, lithology and other pertinent geological features. Location of creeks, gulleys, major tributaries, trails, old and current access roads was also facilitated. Prior to the end of the mapping program, location of the initial proposed trenches was also conducted within the areas where copper and gold veins were located. The geological evaluation was undertaken to come up with an initial geological data and recommendation that is deemed necessary for the succeeding exploration and mine operation activities.
II.
LOCATION AND ACCESSIBILITY
The project area referred to as Parcel II under MPSA 320-2010-XI with a total area of 4,939 hectares is more or less bounded by latitude 7 02'30” to 7 08'30” and longitude 126 17'00” to 126 19'30”. It is located within Sitio Mabalante, Barangay Calapagan, Municipality of Lupon and Sitio Manlandog, Bait, Antipolo, New Cebu, Botog, Nasa, Barangay Limot, Municipality of Taragona, all in the Province of Davao Oriental. From Davao City, the prospect can be reached on a three (3) to four (4) hours travel via commercial buses plying the Davao-Mati route. From the City of Mati, Mabalante area which is located at the northern part of the claim can be reached in a three (3) to four (4) hours travel on a 4x4 vehicle via the Mati-Tagbinunga-Calatagan Daticor old logging road towards Quinonoan headwaters Skynix camp area. Manlandog area on the other hand is accessible via Mati-Don Salvador-Cangusan access road in a 1-1/2 travel on a 4x4 vehicle or motorcycle. From Sitio Cangusan, another two (2) hours hike on a foot trail to Manlandog exploration fly camp east of Mayo River. The southern part of the claim is accessible via Mati-Limot-Botog access road, all within the Municipality of Taragona, Davo Oriental. The prospect areas which include New Cebu, Bait, Antipolo, Onlo, Botog, and Aponing area, all of which are interconnected by either old logging road or by foot trails.
III.
TOPOGRAPHIC SETTING
The area under consideration is characterized by rugged to extremely rugged topography with elliptical shape of top ridges, with elevations ranging from 500 to 1,751 meters above sea level. Mountain ranges exhibiting triangular facets are common in the area. The apparent physiographic conformity of deep valley seems to indicate an earlier mature erosion of land surface. The erosion surface has subsequently been dissected by youthful streams.
IV.
DRAINAGE, VEGETATION, CLIMATE
Drainage is generally dendritic as exemplified by the Quinonoan and Mayo River as the major drainage system, with system of modified rectangular drainage pattern and network of tributaries and subtributaries. In the gently sloping area, vegetation abounds in the form of tropical cogon grass, ferns, coffee, abaca, vegetable, corn, variety of outcrop in the rugged and steep parts of the area, are overgrown with second growth forest with some large trees and thick undergrowth. The average weather variation of the region falls under Type 2 of the Climate Map of the Philippines where there is no definite dry season and a very pronounced maximum rainfall from November to January.
V.
GEOLOGIC SETTING
A) REGIONAL GEOLOGY AND TECTONIC SETTING
Regionally, the prospect is located strategically at the southern segment of the Philippine fault. It can also be considered as part of the Diwata range which appears to be a paleogene subduction zone with upthrusted mafic-ultramafic rocks, metamorphic rocks and clastics, comprising the northern part and some igneous rocks at the western flank on the south. The northern part is overlain by Miocene clastics and limestone intruded by middle miocene diorite, andesite and dacite. The north-south trending Diwata range extending from Surigao to Davao forms the backbone of eastern Mindanao. The range is rugged and has several peaks with elevation from 900 to 2,500 meters. The highest which is Mt. Kampali is in the southern part of the range.
The Diwata range which is also known as the Cordilleras of the South is a mineral district of Southeastern Mindanao where porphyry and vein type copper, gold, molybdenum, tactite iron deposits containing sulfides are known to exist. At the western flank of the prospect is a north-south trending batholith 4-8 kilometers wide by more than 20 kilometers long. This batholith is often called by Geologists as diorite intrusive complex, since it consists of different facies mainly diorite, quartz diorite and hornblende diorite porphyry. This batholith is exposed and serves as hostrock in most if not all copper and gold deposits within Taguibo, Calapagan, Marayag, to the western flank of San Mariano up to the Mountain Ranges of Mt. Kinayan in the Municipality of New Bataan.
At the northeastern part of the prospect is an exposure of a columnar basaltic rock formation which is believed to be the oldest rock formation exposed in the district. Probable age of this rock formation is cretaceous to Paleocene (geologic epoch that lasted from about 65.5 to 56 million years ago). At the eastern flank is a thick formation of limestone formation of Oligocene age (23-34 million years ago) capped by the Eocene age volcanic clastics rock from Quinonoan to Mt. Tagbac area.
Dominating the geology of the region, the Eastern Mindanao ridge is a complex NNW-SSE trending volcanic island structure that developed during the upper cretaceous to quarternary as a result of convergent and transcurrent tectonics The area is inferred as being associated with relic east dipping subduction zone that collided with the west Mindanao ridge sometime in the late Miocene.
B) WITHIN PROSPECTS
1. MABALANTE AREA
The Mabalante-upper Quinonoan copper gold prospect is underlain essentially by three (3) rock units composed of diorite, intercalated sequences of metamorphosed volcanics and sedimentary rocks. Common rock exposure however at Mabalante area is volcanic clastics overlain by light to dark gray colored limestone formation. Porphyritic andesite dikes intruded the volcanic clastic rocks. These dikes are trending northwest and sub-parallel major faults in the area. In close proximity with these dikes are thin fractures filled with quartz anhydrite and calc silicate materials.
At Mabalante area, the deposit is hosted to a large extent by andesite porphyry (Andesite is a type of igneous rock that is found in most volcanic regions of the world, especially around volcanoes that line the Pacific Basin), porphyritic-volcanic (a variety of igneous rock consisting of large-grained crystals) , volcanic clastics and partly by the uncomformity rock formation of sandy and basalt limestone, calcarenite, sandstone sequences that developed from spotty to hornfelsic texture. Silicification, chloritization, epidotization and kaolinization are common alteration in the prospect area. Copper mineralization consists predominantly of chalcopyrite, bornite and subordinates of sphalerite and galena, occurring usually as fracture filling and other interlacing minute fractures which serves as passageways or loci for sulfide mineralization. Malachite, azurite and chalcocite are dominant oxidation products.
Three (3) distinct vein systems were mapped and sampled at Mabalante area, namely: Mabalante Copper-molybdenum vein complex which is the focus of the past mining activities; the Southeastern Mabalante vein complex and the Eastern Mabalante vein complex.
1a. MABALANTE COPPER-MOLYBDENUM VEIN COMPLEX
The Mabalante copper-molybdenum vein complex also known as the main Mabalante vein system is a northeast-southwest trending copper vein system with multiple cymoidal and lacer structures along its strike. The main copper structure which was drifted prior to its collapse is composed of 2.0 meter massive copper vein, consisting of chalcopyrite, chalcocite, bornite and cubical specks of pyrite and botroidal marcasite. Fine bandings of white-grayish quartz, sericite and adularia were also noted. General trend of the main copper vein is North 48 -50 East dipping 45 southwest. Coatings of malachite and azurite are dominant especially near the portal. Two (2) minor faults at the footwall of the structure may have displaced the vein with a possible slight southeastern oblique movement.
At upper elevation of the main portal are two (2) abandoned adits with exposure of 0.30 to 1.30 meters copper vein composed of chalcopyrite, bornite, chalcocite, with bonded quartz-calcite specked with fine pyrite. The vein based on its strike and dip is correlative to the structure disclosed at the main portal, located at lower elevation. 30-50 meters north of the main copper structure are two (2) 0.50 meters vein (sample no. M-OTC-09) which may have converged with the main structure at lower elevation where the 0.50-0.70 meters molybdenum vein was exposed. Chipping the hanging wall disclosed a massive copper complex which may have converged forming one (1) major structure at lower elevation. As of this writing, the total strike of the Mabalante main vein complex is 150 meters. Three (3) proposed trenches at 50 meters interval were delineated at the southwestern side of the vein and another three (3) trenches at the northeast side.
Map of Claim Location MPSA 320-2010-XI Mandanao Island, Davao Oriental.
To identify the mineral resources on MPSA 320-2010-XI, the Assignor conducted a semi-detailed geological mapping using compass and tape method backed by Global Positioning System (GPS) and manual test-pitting, artisanal tunneling and trenching activities which indicated a weighted-average Copper (CU) grades of 2.763% Cu based on length (from 18 laboratory assays on rock samples collected). Based on the 18 samples analysis, the Au (gold) weighted-average analysis content was from 1.528 grams/ton based on length. This was conducted by Agetro Davao Mapping Team from June 29, 2008 to August 27, 2008 on 4,939 hectares of Oro East Mining Claim dominated as MPSA 320-2010-XI Parcel II (approximately two thirds of the fully permitted claim MPSA 320-2010-XI).
The Company’s exploration and productions recommendations come from the Assignors Semi-detailed Geological Mapping Report of ORO EAST MINING CLAIM MPSA 320-2010-XI PARCEL II, conducted by Agetro Commodities in September of 2008.
Agetro Commodities is a Philippine company located in Davao City that specializes in geological reports, topographic assay studies, and general geology consulting. Paul S. Ortega is the lead Consulting Geologist & Contractor who works closely with the Company. Francisco C. Rebillon and Noel Z. Franco are Consulting Geologists who, from time to time assist Mr. Ortega. Mr. Ortega formally served as the Senior Geologist at Apex Mining Corp., a public company in the Philippines. He is geologist licensed by the Philippine Board of Examination of the Professional Regulation Commission. He has over 30 years of experience in the mining industry.
Agetro Commodities in not an affiliate of Oro-East Mining Company LTD., Oro East Mining, Inc. or any of their respective affiliates. Fees paid by Oro-East Mining Company LTD. pursuant to its engagement of Agetro with respect to its report are $7,500, and the only fees paid by Oro-East Mining Company LTD. or Oro East Mining, Inc. to Agetro during the past three fiscal years is such $7,500.
1. The initial exposure at the main Mabalante copper-gold complex is very impressive. The potential of the prospect can possibly be substantially big for commercial operations. The geological investigation which includes semi-detailed geological mapping is aimed at actually proving its copper gold potentiality and accomplishing the same by undertaking the following:
1a) Further prospecting at the general area of potential mineralized zone;
1b) Fast track implementation of trench dozing at the proposed trenches to prove persistence of the lateral extent of the vein/structure; Prioritize excavation of trenches programmed at the southwestern part of the mining claims. Initially three (3) trenches were programmed at the southwestern part at 50 meter interval. Three (3) more trenches were also programmed and marked on the ground at the northeastern part of the vein/structure, also at 50- meter interval.
The results and exposure at the trenches will be the basis in the exploration, development and diamond drilling programs to come up with positive ore reserve which will then be the basis of the mining program. The same program should be facilitated at the Mabalante south vein complex and Mabalante east vein complex, respectively.
1c) Knowing the details of the ore which is very important. This is actually advance information not only for the Geologists but for the mining and metallurgical technical staff who will be conducting studies in the near future.
In view:
a. Collect vein samples and submit to the Mines & Geo-sciences Bureau for polish sectioning and mineralogical analysis;
b. A 50-kilo bag ore should also be collected and submitted to any reliable laboratory for metallurgical testing, subject to the approval of the metallurgical engineers.
2. New portal is hereby recommended to be installed or put up at lower elevation. For safety reasons, portal should be located at stable ground; off vein and aimed to intercept the main structure after a 5-10 meters advance, then facilitate drifting south at Mabalante main vein.
3. With the plan to resume tunneling/drifting, grade control and mine geology team should be organized to regularly monitor daily advance of the underground working(s) and at the same time implement effective grade control procedures.
4. Access road to be used, repaired and constructed should be considered. The Cangusan-Bongco road is one good shorter route to the mine site.
5. As observed, the impressive copper ore bodies and ore veins are located at the northern part of the claim particularly at Mabalante and its proximity. High sulphidation copper and gold ore system is very common in Mabalante. The Ore system shows permeability control governed by lithology, structure, changes in wall rock alteration and ore mineralogy. Based on studies, this system has been developed from the reaction with host rock or hot acidic magmatic fluids to produce alteration and later sulphide, gold, copper and silver deposition.
On the other hand, veins delineated at the southern part of the claim can be generally classified as clean ore. Low sulphidation within these areas are well pronounced as exhibited by the veins located thereat. These type of deposits based on studies have been developed from dilute near neutral ph fluids and display mineralogies derived dominantly from magmatic source rocks and others with mineralogies dominated from circulating geothermal fluid sources.
6. Several quartz vein systems were delineated within Manlandog, Karamatyan, Pamatian and the Onlo-Botog areas, respectively. Majority of these veins delineated during the mapping are clean ore material which is very ideal when fed to carbon-in-pulp (CIP) carbon-in-leach (CIL) milling process. The material is composed of quartz calcite with lesser sulphides and other poly metallic materials. To prove persistence of the aforesaid veins, the following are hereby recommended:
6a) Prioritize trench dozing at the abovementioned areas. The location of the proposed trenches are already marked at the ground. The results of the trench dozing will also be the basis in the preparation of diamond drilling program to prove persistence of the vein at depth.
6b) Conduct extensive prospecting particularly within the proximity of the quartz vein outcrops. Lithological surface cappings like the limestone have extensively blanketed the areas where the lateral extension of the veins are supposed to have been found.
7. Several factors have to be considered, should viable, mineable deposit will be blocked at the southern part of the claims.
7a) The access to the main highway is much more accessible.
7b) Three (3) phase source of electricity which is very vital when constructing and operating a mill plant is available at and near Barangay Limot, a few kilometers from the ore source.
7c) Several areas at the Sitio Botog-Nasa are ideal for mine, mill and other mining facilities. Several areas are also ideal for building a tailings dam. There is abundant source of potable and industrial water which can be tapped.
8. Lastly, the Oro East Parcel II claim is within the southern portion of the southern cordillera ranges. This mountain range which appears to be the backbone of the Southeastern Mindanao area is known to have hosted multiple impressive mineable deposits. Some of these deposits are already being exploited both by big scale and small scale mining method. During the course of the semi-detailed geological mapping conducted by the Agetro Davao Team, not only that the team was able to locate the now famous Mabalante copper-gold-molybdenum complex but also found several traces of multiple vein systems along and within the other part of the claims particularly towards south. The possibility of finding and proving other impressive, commercial and mineable vein systems is not remote.
MINING EQUIPMENT AND TRUCKS
We purchased certain brand new mining equipment including crush machine, lab test and camp site equipment, generator, and sky cable car, and used trucks for the exploration activities on the mining site MPSA 320-2-010-XI. We repaired and built approximately 10 and 16 kilometers of roads from the Mati port to the mining site during the last quarter of 2012 and 2011, respectively. Total cost of the mining equipment and trucks can be found on page 27 under Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements.
Item 3.