Item 2. Description of Properties.
OFFICE FACILITIES
We were incorporated in the State of Delaware on February 15, 2008, and established an end of December fiscal year end. Our corporate headquarters is located at 1127 Webster Street, Suite 28, Oakland, CA 946076 and our telephone number is +1 (510) 544-1516 begin_of_the_skype_highlighting and +1 (510) 544-1516end_of_the_skype_highlighting. The Company leases such offices.
On July 28, 2010, the Company opened an office in Hong Kong located at Regus Millenium City, 32/F Tower 1, Millenium City, 388 Kwun Tong Road, Kwun Tong, Kowloon, Hong Kong pursuant to the terms of an Office Service Agreement with Regus Millenium City. The Company leases such offices.
On or about September 1, 2010, the Company opened offices on the site of it mining operations in the Philippines at 1028 Tindalo St., Brgy., Sainz, Mati City, Philippines 8200. The Company leases such offices.
We have started the exploration activities on the property in the Philippines, MPSA 320-2010-XI, which was obtained through an assignment agreement with Oro East Mining Company LTD.
MPSA 320-2010-XI (7,855 hectares, 19,401 acres) is a tenement claim situated on the outskirts of Davao City in the Philippines. The parcel was applied-registered with the MINES AND GEOSCIENCES BUREAU REGION XI “MGB Region XI” on May 16, 1997.
DESCRIPTION OF CLAIMS
The Company acquired all exploration, extraction and production rights from Oro East Mining LLC. Philippines, a privately-held corporation organized under the laws of the Republic of the Philippines licensed for mine acquisition, exploration, and development.
Prior to the Company’s acquisition of its claims, Oro East Mining LLC. Philippines did manual test-pitting, artisanal tunneling and trenching activities which suggested Copper grades on the sulphide side from 4% to as high as 15% Cu (from more than 40 laboratory assays on grab, outcrop, test-pit and composite sampling grade range and Au grab and composite sample contents of 1.5 to 5 gms/ton from 2-3 meter deep testpits).
MPSA 320-2010-XI (7,855 hectares, 19,401 acres) is a tenement claim situated on the outskirts of Davao City in the Philippines. The parcel was applied-registered with the MGB Region XI on May 16, 1997. It is located in the municipalities of Lupon and Tarragona in the Davao Oriental Province, Island Region of Mindanao, Philippines. The project sites at Mt. Tagopo and Mt. Mayo are bounded by coordinates 7 degrees 01’00” to 7 degrees 05’ 00” latitude and 128 degrees 08’ 00” to 126 degrees 11’30” longitude and 7 degrees 02’30” to 7 degrees 08’30” latitude and 126 degrees 17’00” to 126 degrees 19’20” longitude. Oro-East has undergone exploration for copper and gold-bearing veins or structures in this area. These exploration targets are shallow, for vein-type copper and gold-bearing deposits. Copper, gold, and silver are the primary mineral targets in this claim, with lead and zinc as secondary targets.
These mineral claims are located beneath the Philippine Fault and the Pacific Rim tectonic belt, also known as the “Pacific Ring of Fire,” The Company has obtained full permitting under the Mineral Right Sharing Agreement (MRSA) with the Philippine Government which allows the Company to commence full scale exploration and production as of May 15, 2010 on MPSA 320-2010-XI.
Detailed Description of the Claims.
I.
INTRODUCTION
Semi-detailed geological mapping using compass and tape method backed by Global Positioning System (GPS) was conducted by Agetro Davao Mapping Team from June 29, 2008 to August 27, 2008 at the 4,939 hectares of Oro East Mining Claim dominated as MPSA 320-2010-XI -184-XI Parcel II. The geological mapping was undertaken to confirm actual location of the copper ore bodies, gold vein system, alteration zones, lithology and other pertinent geological features. Location of creeks, gulleys, major tributaries, trails, old and current access roads was also facilitated. Prior to the end of the mapping program, location of the initial proposed trenches was also conducted within the areas where copper and gold veins were located. The geological evaluation was undertaken to come up with an initial geological data and recommendation that is deemed necessary for the succeeding exploration and mine operation activities.
II.
LOCATION AND ACCESSIBILITY
The project area referred to as Parcel II under MPSA320-2010-XI with a total area of 4,939 hectares is more or less bounded by latitude 7 02'30” to 7 08'30” and longitude 126 17'00” to 126 19'30”. It is located within Sitio Mabalante, Barangay Calapagan, Municipality of Lupon and Sitio Manlandog, Bait, Antipolo, New Cebu, Botog, Nasa, Barangay Limot, Municipality of Taragona, all in the Province of Davao Oriental. From Davao City, the prospect can be reached on a three (3) to four (4) hours travel via commercial buses plying the Davao-Mati route. From the
City of Mati, Mabalante area which is located at the northern part of the claim can be reached in a three (3) to four (4) hours travel on a 4x4 vehicle via the Mati-Tagbinunga-Calatagan Daticor old logging road towards Quinonoan headwaters Skynix camp area. Manlandog area on the other hand is accessible via Mati-Don Salvador-Cangusan access road in a 1-1/2 travel on a 4x4 vehicle or motorcycle. From Sitio Cangusan, another two (2) hours hike on a foot trail to Manlandog exploration fly camp east of Mayo River. The southern part of the claim is accessible via Mati-Limot-Botog access road, all within the Municipality of Taragona, Davo Oriental. The prospect areas which includes New Cebu, Bait, Antipolo, Onlo, Botog, and Aponing area, all of which are interconnected by either old logging road or by foot trails.
III.
TOPOGRAPHIC SETTING
The area under consideration is characterized by rugged to extremely rugged topography with elliptical shape of top ridges, with elevations ranging from 500 to 1,751 meters above sea level. Mountain ranges exhibiting triangular facets are common in the area. The apparent physiographic conformity of deep valley seems to indicate an earlier mature erosion of land surface. The erosion surface has subsequently been dissected by youthful streams.
IV.
DRAINAGE, VEGETATION, CLIMATE
Drainage is generally dendritic as exemplified by the Quinonoan and Mayo River as the major drainage system, with system of modified rectangular drainage pattern and network of tributaries and subtributaries. In the gently sloping area, vegetation abounds in the form of tropical cogon grass, ferns, coffee, abaca, vegetable, corn, variety of outcrop in the rugged and steep parts of the area, are overgrown with second growth forest with some large trees and thick undergrowth. The average weather variation of the region falls under Type 2 of the Climate Map of the Philippines where there is no definite dry season and a very pronounced maximum rainfall from November to January.
V.
GEOLOGIC SETTING
A) REGIONAL GEOLOGY AND TECTONIC SETTING
Regionally, the prospect is located strategically at the southern segment of the Philippine fault. It can also be considered as part of the Diwata range which appears to be a paleogene subduction zone with upthrusted mafic-ultramafic rocks, metamorphic rocks and clastics, comprising the northern part and some igneous rocks at the western flank on the south. The northern part is overlain by Miocene clastics and limestone intruded by middle miocene diorite, andesite and dacite. The north-south trending Diwata range extending from Surigao to Davao forms the backbone of eastern Mindanao. The range is rugged and has several peaks with elevation from 900 to 2,500 meters. The highest which is Mt. Kampali is in the southern part of the range.
The Diwata range which is also known as the Cordilleras of the South is a mineral district of Southeastern Mindanao where porphyry and vein type copper, gold, molybdenum, tactite iron deposits containing sulfides are known to exist. At the western flank of the prospect is a north-south trending batholith 4-8 kilometers wide by more than 20 kilometers long. This batholith is often called by Geologists as diorite intrusive complex, since it consists of different facies mainly diorite, quartz diorite and hornblende diorite porphyry. This batholith is exposed and serves as hostrock in most if not all copper and gold deposits within Taguibo, Calapagan, Marayag, to the western flank of San Mariano up to the Mountain Ranges of Mt. Kinayan in the Municipality of New Bataan.
At the northeastern part of the prospect is an exposure of a columnar basaltic rock formation which is believed to be the oldest rock formation exposed in the district. Probable age of this rock formation is cretaceous to Paleocene (geologic epoch that lasted from about 65.5 to 56 million years ago). At the eastern flank is a thick formation of limestone formation of Oligocene age (23-34 million years ago) capped by the Eocene age volcanic clastics rock from Quinonoan to Mt. Tagbac area.
Dominating the geology of the region, the Eastern Mindanao ridge is a complex NNW-SSE trending volcanic island structure that developed during the upper cretaceous to quarternary as a result of convergent and transcurrent tectonics The area is inferred as being associated with relic east dipping subduction zone that collided with the west Mindanao ridge sometime in the late Miocene.
B) WITHIN PROSPECTS
1. MABALANTE AREA
The Mabalante-upper Quinonoan copper gold prospect is underlain essentially by three (3) rock units composed of diorite, intercalated sequences of metamorphosed volcanics and sedimentary rocks. Common rock exposure however at Mabalante area is volcanic clastics overlain by light to dark gray colored limestone formation. Porphyritic andesite dikes intruded the volcanic clastic rocks. These dikes are trending northwest and sub-parallel major faults in the area. In close proximity with these dikes are thin fractures filled with quartz anhydrite and calc silicate materials.
At Mabalante area, the deposit is hosted to a large extent by andesite porphyry (Andesite is a type of igneous rock that is found in most volcanic regions of the world, especially around volcanoes that line the Pacific Basin), porphyritic-volcanic (a variety of igneous rock consisting of large-grained crystals) , volcanic clastics and partly by the uncomformity rock formation of sandy and basalt limestone, calcarenite, sandstone sequences that developed from spotty to hornfelsic texture. Silicification, chloritization, epidotization and kaolinization are common alteration in the prospect area. Copper mineralization consists predominantly of chalcopyrite, bornite and subordinates of sphalerite and galena, occurring usually as fracture filling and other interlacing minute fractures which serves as passageways or loci for sulfide mineralization. Malachite, azurite and chalcocite are dominant oxidation products.
Three (3) distinct vein systems were mapped and sampled at Mabalante area, namely: Mabalante Copper-molybdenum vein complex which is the focus of the past mining activities; the Southeastern Mabalante vein complex and the Eastern Mabalante vein complex.
1a. MABALANTE COPPER-MOLYBDENUM VEIN COMPLEX
The Mabalante copper-molybdenum vein complex also known as the main Mabalante vein system is a northeast-southwest trending copper vein system with multiple cymoidal and lacer structures along its strike. The main copper structure which was drifted prior to its collapse is composed of 2.0 meter massive copper vein, consisting of chalcopyrite, chalcocite, bornite and cubical specks of pyrite and botroidal marcasite. Fine bandings of white-grayish quartz, sericite and adularia were also noted. General trend of the main copper vein is North 48 -50 East dipping 45 southwest. Coatings of malachite and azurite are dominant especially near the portal. Two (2) minor faults at the footwall of the structure may have displaced the vein with a possible slight southeastern oblique movement.
At upper elevation of the main portal are two (2) abandoned adits with exposure of 0.30 to 1.30 meters copper vein composed of chalcopyrite, bornite, chalcocite, with bonded quartz-calcite specked with fine pyrite. The vein based on its strike and dip is correlative to the structure disclosed at the main portal, located at lower elevation. 30-50 meters north of the main copper structure are two (2) 0.50 meters vein (sample no. M-OTC-09) which may have converged with the main structure at lower elevation where the 0.50-0.70 meters molybdenum vein was exposed. Chipping the hanging wall disclosed a massive copper complex which may have converged forming one (1) major structure at lower elevation. As of this writing, the total strike of the Mabalante main vein complex is 150 meters. Three (3) proposed trenches at 50 meters interval were delineated at the southwestern side of the vein and another three (3) trenches at the northeast side.
COMPETITIVE CONDITIONS
The mineral exploration business is an extremely competitive industry. We are competing with many other exploration companies looking for minerals. We are a very early stage mineral exploration company and a very small participant in the mineral exploration business. Being a junior mineral exploration company, we compete with other companies like ours for financing and joint venture partners. Additionally, we compete for resources such as professional geologists, camp staff, helicopters and mineral exploration supplies.
GOVERNMENT APPROVALS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
The Company is in the process of filing an application with the Department of Environment and Natural Resources for the Environmental Compliance Certificate the only permit required under the MPSA 320-2010-XI to begin further exploration on the property. It is estimated to take three to six months to complete the process at a cost of an estimated $50,000 US dollars. The permit includes the following items:
Environmental Compliance Certificate
The Philippine Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) System under Presidential Decree 1586 requires all government and private entities to prepare an EIS for every project or activity which significantly affects the environment. PD 1586 mandates that environmentally critical projects (ECPs) and projects within environmentally critical areas (ECAs) shall require an EIS. Mining projects are considered ECPs and are thus required to submit their EIS. Upon evaluation of their EIS, mining projects are issued Environmental Compliance Certificates (ECCs), which contain the major elements of the environmental and social management plan that the companies need to implement to keep their adverse environmental impacts within acceptable limits.
Environmental Protection and Enhancement Program
The Environmental Protection and Enhancement Program (EPEP) provide the operational link between the ECC and the environmental protection and enhancement commitments of the company. It provides a description of the expected and considered-as-acceptable impacts and sets out the environmental protection and enhancement strategies during the life of the mine based on best practices in mine environmental management. The EPEP also includes the post-mining land use potential for various types of disturbed land. Contractors are also required to submit an Annual EPEP (AEPEP) at least thirty (30) days prior to the start of each calendar year.
Final Mine Rehabilitation and/ or Decommissioning Plan
The Final Mine Rehabilitation and/or Decommissioning Plan (FMRDP) ensures a smooth transition from active mining to eventual closure of the mine. The plan, which is formulated in consultation with the communities and local government units, must be submitted as an integral part of the EPEP. Using risk-based methodologies/ approaches, the FMRDP shall consider all mine closure scenarios and shall contain cost estimates for the implementation of the FMRDP, taking in consideration expected inflation, technological advances, the unique circumstances faced by the mining operation, among others. Such estimates shall be based on the cost of having the decommissioning and/or rehabilitation works done by third party contractors. Further, these estimates, on a per year basis, shall cover the full extent of work necessary to achieve the objectives of mine closure such as, but shall not be limited to, decommissioning, rehabilitation, maintenance and monitoring, and employee and other social costs, including residual care, if necessary, over a ten year period.
The Company does not believe that the moratorium on mining in the area of the Philippines where the Company conducts its operations applies to the Company because the moratorium applies to open pit mining, an activity in which the Company does not engage.
Oro East Mining, Inc. (“Oro East”), a Delaware corporation, is an exploration stage mining company that has acquired rights to develop certain tenement lands in the Republic of Philippines for the mining of gold, copper, and other precious or industrial mineral deposits. The Company will initially focus on its sole asset that was assigned to the Company by Ore East Mining Company Ltd. (“Assignor”), a privately-held corporation organized under the laws of the Republic of the Philippines to further explore, extract and process ore within the guild lines of our Mineral Right Sharing Agreement (MPSA) with the Philippine Government granted in March of 2010. The claim is named MPSA 320-2010-XI and is comprised of 7,855 hectares (19,401 acres) of mining rights on Mindanao Island in the Davao region of the Philippines. The Company’s claim is fee simple with all applicable permits obtained to erect infrastructure, refining, smelting plants and power stations for extraction and production of gold and copper as primary targets, and iron ore and other metals as secondary. The Company will continue exploration on MPSA 320-2010-XI as it transitions itself from an exploration company with the intention to become a gold, silver and copper production company with plans to advance the identified MPSA 320-2010-XI deposits through to production by as early as 2012. The Company has not identified any mineral reserves in connection with MPSA 320-2010-XI.
To identify the mineral resources on MPSA 320-2010-XI, the Assignor conducted a semi-detailed geological mapping using compass and tape method backed by Global Positioning System (GPS) and manual test-pitting, artisanal tunneling and trenching activities which suggested Copper (CU) grades on the sulphide side from 4% to as high as 15% Cu (from more than 40 laboratory assays on grab, outcrop, test-pit and composite sampling grade range and Au (gold) grab and composite sample contents of 1.5 to 5 gms/ton from 2-3 meter deep testpits).. This was conducted by Agetro Davao Mapping Team from June 29, 2008 to August 27, 2008 on 4,939 hectares of Oro East Mining Claim dominated as MPSA 320-2010-XI Parcel II (approximately two thirds of the fully permitted claim MPSA 320-2010-XI).
The Company’s exploration and productions recommendations come from the Assignors Semi-detailed Geological Mapping Report of ORO EAST MINING CLAIM MPSA320-2010-XI PARCEL II, conducted by Agetro Commodities in September of 2008.
Agetro Commodities is a Philippine company located in Davao City that specializes in geological reports, topographic assay studies, and general geology consulting. Paul S. Ortega is the lead Consulting Geologist & Contractor who works closely with the Company. Francisco C. Rebillon and Noel Z. Franco are Consulting Geologists who, from time to time assist Mr. Ortega. Mr. Ortega formally served as the Senior Geologist at Apex Mining Corp., a public company in the Philippines. He is geologist licensed by the Philippine Board of Examination of the Professional Regulation Commission. He has over 30 years of experience in the mining industry.
Agetro Commodities in not an affiliate of Oro-East Mining Company LTD., Oro East Mining, Inc. or any of their respective affiliates. Fees fees paid by Oro-East Mining Company LTD. pursuant to its engagement of Agetro with respect to its report is $7,500, and the only fees paid by Oro-East Mining Company LTD. or Oro East Mining, Inc. to Agetro during the past three fiscal years is such $7,500.
1. The initial exposure at the main Mabalante copper-gold complex is very impressive. The potential of the prospect can possibly be substantially big for commercial operations. The geological investigation which includes semi-detailed geological mapping is aimed at actually proving its copper gold potentiality and accomplishing the same by undertaking the following:
1a) Further prospecting at the general area of potential mineralized zone;
1b) Fast track implementation of trench dozing at the proposed trenches to prove persistence of the lateral extent of the vein/structure; Prioritize excavation of trenches programmed at the southwestern part of the mining claims. Initially three (3) trenches were programmed at the southwestern part at 50 meter interval. Three (3) more trenches were also programmed and marked on the ground at the northeastern part of the vein/structure, also at 50- meter interval.
The results and exposure at the trenches will be the basis in the exploration, development and diamond drilling programs to come up with positive ore reserve which will then be the basis of the mining program. The same program should be facilitated at the Mabalante south vein complex and Mabalante east vein complex, respectively.
1c) Knowing the details of the ore which is very important. This is actually advance information not only for the Geologists but for the mining and metallurgical technical staff who will be conducting studies in the near future.
In view:
a. Collect vein samples and submit to the Mines & Geo-sciences Bureau for polish sectioning and mineralogical analysis;
b. A 50-kilo bag ore should also be collected and submitted to any reliable laboratory for metallurgical testing, subject to the approval of the metallurgical engineers.
2. New portal is hereby recommended to be installed or put up at lower elevation. For safety reasons, portal should be located at stable ground; off vein and aimed to intercept the main structure after a 5-10 meters advance, then facilitate drifting south at Mabalante main vein.
3. With the plan to resume tunneling/drifting, grade control and mine geology team should be organized to regularly monitor daily advance of the underground working(s) and at the same time implement effective grade control procedures.
4. Access road to be used, repaired and constructed should be considered. The Cangusan-Bongco road is one good shorter route to the mine site.
5. As observed, the impressive copper ore bodies and ore veins are located at the northern part of the claim particularly at Mabalante and its proximity. High sulphidation copper and gold ore system is very common in Mabalante. The Ore system shows permeability control governed by lithology, structure, changes in wall rock alteration and ore mineralogy. Based on studies, this system has been developed from the reaction with host rock or hot acidic magmatic fluids to produce alteration and later sulphide, gold, copper and silver deposition.
On the other hand, veins delineated at the southern part of the claim can be generally classified as clean ore. Low sulphidation within these areas are well pronounced as exhibited by the veins located thereat. These type of deposits based on studies have been developed from dilute near neutral ph fluids and display mineralogies derived dominantly from magmatic source rocks and others with mineralogies dominated from circulating geothermal fluid sources.
6. Several quartz vein systems were delineated within Manlandog, Karamatyan, Pamatian and the Onlo-Botog areas, respectively. Majority of these veins delineated during the mapping are clean ore material which is very ideal when fed to carbon-in-pulp (CIP) carbon-in-leach (CIL) milling process. The material is composed of quartz calcite with lesser sulphides and other poly metallic materials. To prove persistence of the aforesaid veins, the following are hereby recommended:
6a) Prioritize trench dozing at the abovementioned areas. The location of the proposed trenches are already marked at the ground. The results of the trench dozing will also be the basis in the preparation of diamond drilling program to prove persistence of the vein at depth.
6b) Conduct extensive prospecting particularly within the proximity of the quartz vein outcrops. Lithological surface cappings like the limestone have extensively blanketed the areas where the lateral extension of the veins are supposed to have been found.
7. Several factors have to be considered, should viable, mineable deposit will be blocked at the southern part of the claims.
7a) The access to the main highway is much more accessible.
7b) Three (3) phase source of electricity which is very vital when constructing and operating a mill plant is available at and near Barangay Limot, a few kilometers from the ore source.
7c) Several areas at the Sitio Botog-Nasa are ideal for mine, mill and other mining facilities. Several areas are also ideal for building a tailings dam. There is abundant source of potable and industrial water which can be tapped.
8. Lastly, the Oro East Parcel II claim is within the southern portion of the southern cordillera ranges. This mountain range which appears to be the backbone of the Southeastern Mindanao area is known to have hosted multiple impressive mineable deposits. Some of these deposits are already being exploited both by big scale and small scale mining method. During the course of the semi-detailed geological mapping conducted by the Agetro Davao Team, not only that the team was able to locate the now famous Mabalante copper-gold-molybdenum complex but also found several traces of multiple vein systems along and within the other part of the claims particularly towards south. The possibility of finding and proving other impressive, commercial and mineable vein systems is not remote.
MAP OF CLAIMS AND OPERATIONS
MAP OF CLAIMS AND OPERATIONS
COSTS AND EFFECTS OF COMPLIANCE WITH ENVIRONMENTAL LAWS
Environmental Laws
In the past ten years, laws and policies for environmental protection in the Philippines have moved towards stricter compliance and stronger enforcement, therefore the exact costs of compliance is unknown but is estimated to $250,000 per year. The basic laws in the Philippines governing environmental protection in the mineral industry sector of the economy are the Environmental Protection Law, the Environment Impact Assessment Law and the Mineral Resources Law. The State Administration of Environmental Protection and its provincial counterparts are responsible for the supervision, implementation and enforcement of environment protection laws and regulations. Provincial governments also have the power to issue implementing rules and policies in relation to environmental protection in their respective jurisdictions. Applicants for exploration rights must submit environmental impact “assessments” and those projects that fail to meet environmental protection standards will not be granted licenses.
In addition, after exploration the licensee must perform water and soil maintenance and take steps towards environmental protection. After the exploration rights have expired or the concessionaire stops mining during the permit period and the mineral resources have not been fully developed, the concessionaire must perform water and soil maintenance, land recovery and environmental protection in compliance with the original development scheme, or must pay the costs of land recovery and environmental protection. After closing, the mining enterprises shall perform water and soil maintenance, land recovery and environmental protection in compliance with mine closure approval reports, or must pay the costs of land recovery and environmental protection.
Penalties for breaching the Environmental Protection Law include a warning, payment of a penalty calculated on the damage incurred, or payment of a fine. When an entity fails to adopt preventative measures or control facilities that meet the requirements of the enacted environmental protection standards, it is subject to suspension of production or operations and for payment of a fine. Material violations of environmental laws and regulations causing property damage or casualties may result in criminal liabilities.
COMPLIANCE WITH ENVIRONMENTAL CONSIDERATIONS AND PERMITTING COULD HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON THE COSTS OR THE VIABILITY OF OUR PROJECTS. THE HISTORICAL TREND TOWARD STRICTER ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATION MAY CONTINUE, AND, AS SUCH, REPRESENTS AN UNKNOWN FACTOR IN OUR PLANNING PROCESSES.
All mining is regulated by the government agencies at the Federal and Provincial levels of government in the Philippines. Compliance with such regulation has a material effect on the economics of our operations and the timing of project development. Our primary regulatory costs have been related to obtaining licenses and permits from government agencies before the commencement of mining activities. An environmental impact study that must be obtained on each property in order to obtain governmental approval to mine on the properties is also a part of the overall operating costs of a mining company.
The possibility of more stringent regulations exists in the areas of worker health and safety, the dispositions of wastes, the decommissioning and reclamation of mining and milling sites and other environmental matters, each of which could have an adverse material effect on the costs or the viability of a particular project. Compliance with environmental considerations and permitting could have a material adverse effect on the costs or the viability of our projects.
MINING AND EXPLORATION ACTIVITIES ARE SUBJECT TO EXTENSIVE REGULATION BY FEDERAL AND PROVINCIAL GOVERNMENTS. FUTURE CHANGES IN GOVERNMENTS, REGULATIONS AND POLICIES, COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS FOR A PARTICULAR PERIOD AND OUR LONG-TERM BUSINESS PROSPECTS.
Mining and exploration activities are subject to extensive regulation by government. Such regulation relates to production, development, exploration, exports, taxes and royalties, labor standards, occupational health, waste disposal, protection and remediation of the environment, mine and mill reclamation, mine and mill safety, toxic substances and other matters. Compliance with such laws and regulations has increased the costs of exploring, drilling, developing, constructing and operating mines and other facilities. Furthermore, future changes in governments, regulations and policies could adversely affect our results of operations in a particular period and our long-term business prospects.
The development of mines and related facilities is contingent upon governmental approvals, which are complex and time consuming to obtain and which, depending upon the location of the project, involve various governmental agencies. The duration and success of such approvals are subject to many variables outside our control.
Item 3.