ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
Our principal executive offices are located at 5700 W. Plano Parkway, Suite 3600, Plano, Texas 75093. We currently lease this office space which totals approximately 3,181 square feet. We believe that the condition and size of our offices are adequate for our current needs.
Investment in oil and gas properties for 2015 is detailed as follows:
Oil and Natural Gas Reserves
Reserve Estimates
SEC Case. The following tables sets forth, as of December 31, 2015, our estimated net proved oil and natural gas reserves, the estimated present value (discounted at an annual rate of 10%) of estimated future net revenues before future income taxes (PV-10) and after future income taxes (Standardized Measure) of our proved reserves and our estimated net probable oil and natural gas reserves, each prepared using standard geological and engineering methods generally accepted by the petroleum industry and in accordance with assumptions prescribed by the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). All of our reserves are located in the United States.
The PV-10 value is a widely used measure of value of oil and natural gas assets and represents a pre-tax present value of estimated cash flows discounted at ten percent. PV-10 is considered a non-GAAP financial measure as defined by the SEC. We believe that our PV-10 presentation is relevant and useful to our investors because it presents the estimated discounted future net cash flows attributable to our proved reserves before taking into account the related future income taxes, as such taxes may differ among various companies. We believe investors and creditors use PV-10 as a basis for comparison of the relative size and value of our proved reserves to the reserve estimates of other companies. PV-10 is not a measure of financial or operating performance under GAAP and neither it nor the Standardized Measure is intended to represent the current market value of our estimated oil and natural gas reserves. PV-10 should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows as defined under GAAP.
Our PV-10 at December 31, 2015 and 2014 is materially reconciled to our Standardized Measure of discounted cash flows at those dates by reducing the PV-10 by the discounted future income taxes associated with such reserves. The discounted future income taxes at December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively, were $4,892,262 and $678,904.
The estimates of our proved reserves and the PV-10 set forth herein reflect estimated future gross revenue to be generated from the production of proved reserves, net of estimated production and future development costs, using prices and costs under existing economic conditions at December 31, 2015. For purposes of determining prices, we used the average of prices received for each month within the 12-month period ended December 31, 2015, adjusted for quality and location differences, which was $41.59 per barrel of oil and $2.59 per MCF of gas. This average historical price is not a prediction of future prices. The amounts shown do not give effect to non-property related expenses, such as corporate general administrative expenses and debt service, future income taxes or to depreciation, depletion and amortization.
ITEM 2. PROPERTIES - continued
BOE equivalents are determined by combining barrels of oil with MCF of gas divided by six.
The decrease of 1,271,563 BOE (998,333 for our Hunton Project and 273,230 for our Marcelina Project) in proved nonproducing reserves comes from the third party engineering studies of the Cimarron and Chisholm Trail AMI's in Oklahoma and engineering studies for our Marcelina Project.
No reserve value for the Ring Project is included in 2014 reserve tables presented above since the company believes this project is still considered to be in the testing phase.
ITEM 2. PROPERTIES - continued
The decrease attributable to divestiture of reserves is from the sale of Oklahoma properties - the Chisholm Trail properties in fourth quarter, 2015 and the pending sale of the Cimarron properties in first quarter, 2016. The pending sale of the Cimarron resulted in no reserve value recorded at December 31, 2015 for the Cimarron properties.
The downward revisions of previous estimates of 441,413 Bbls and 1,176,999 MCF results primarily from 2015 reserve report calculations for the Company’s properties driven by industry conditions, particularly the decline in product prices, which further causes future development of properties to be uneconomic resulting in no PUD value for 2015.
ITEM 2. PROPERTIES - continued
Due to the inherent uncertainties and the limited nature of reservoir data, both proved and probable reserves are subject to change as additional information becomes available. The estimates of reserves, future cash flows, and present value are based on various assumptions, including those prescribed by the SEC, and are inherently imprecise. Although we believe these estimates are reasonable, actual future production, cash flows, taxes, development expenditures, operating expenses, and quantities of recoverable oil and natural gas reserves may vary substantially from these estimates.
In estimating probable reserves, it should be noted that those reserve estimates inherently involve greater risk and uncertainty than estimates of proved reserves. While analysis of geoscience and engineering data provides reasonable certainty that proved reserves can be economically producible from known formations under existing conditions and within a reasonable time, probable reserves involve less certainty than reserves with a higher classification due to less data to support their ultimate recovery. Probable reserves have not been discounted for the additional risk associated with future recovery. Prospective investors should be aware that as the categories of reserves decrease with certainty, the risk of recovering reserves at the PV-10 calculation increases. The reserves and net present worth discounted at 10% relating to the different categories of proved and probable have not been adjusted for risk due to their uncertainty of recovery and thus are not comparable and should not be summed into total amounts.
ITEM 2. PROPERTIES - continued
Reserve Estimation Process, Controls and Technologies
The reserve estimates, including PV-10 estimates, set forth above were prepared by Crest Engineering Services Inc. with respect to the Company’s Marcelina Creek Project in Texas, and PeTech Enterprises, Inc. for the Company’s properties in Oklahoma. A copy of their full reports with regard to our reserves is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this annual report on Form 10-K. These calculations were prepared using standard geological and engineering methods generally accepted by the petroleum industry and in accordance with SEC financial accounting and reporting standards.
We do not have any employees with specific reservoir engineering qualifications in the company. Our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer worked closely with Crest Engineering Services Inc. and PeTech Enterprises Inc. in connection with their preparation of our reserve estimates, including assessing the integrity, accuracy, and timeliness of the methods and assumptions used in this process.
CREST Engineering Services, Inc. (CREST) is an independent petroleum engineering company specializing in the evaluation and appraisal of oil and gas reserves. CREST has been employed as an independent provider of these services specifically to provide the appraisal on behalf of us. Neither CREST, nor any of its individual engineers or consultants, own an interest in either the Company, or any of the properties subject to this evaluation and does not anticipate any future ownership. Waterson Calhoun, P.E. is a petroleum engineer registered with the Texas State Board of Professional Engineers with over 20 years of industry experience providing evaluation services. Mr. Calhoun is a member of the Society of Petroleum Engineers and the Society of Petroleum Evaluation Engineers. Mr. Calhoun founded CREST Engineering Services Inc. in 1995 providing evaluation services on behalf of individuals, client companies and lending institutions.
PeTech Enterprises, Inc. (“PeTech”), who provided reserve estimates for our Oklahoma Properties, is a Texas based profitable, family owned oil and gas production and Investment Company that provides reservoir engineering, economics and valuation support to energy banks, energy companies and law firms as an expert witness. The company has been in business since 1982. Amiel David is the President of PeTech and the primary technical person in charge of the estimates of reserves and associated cash flow and economics on behalf of the company for the results presented in its reserves report to us. He has a PhD in Petroleum Engineering from Stanford University. He is a registered Professional Engineer in the state of Texas (PE #50970), granted in 1982, a member of the Society of Petroleum Engineers and a member of the Society of Petroleum Evaluation Engineers.
Proved Nonproducing Reserves
As of December 31, 2015, our proved nonproducing reserves totaled 40,170 barrels of oil equivalents compared to 1,311,733 as of December 31, 2014, a decrease of 1,271,563. These proved nonproducing reserves at December 31, 2015 were associated with our Marcelina Creek Field property (which decreased by 273,230) and our Hunton projects (which account for the decrease of 998,333). These numbers are taken from the third party reserves studies by CREST Engineering Services, Inc. and PeTech.
This decrease of 998,333 BOE in proved nonproducing reserves attributable to our Hunton projects comes from the third party engineering studies from PeTech of the Hunton in Oklahoma. The net reserves change associated with these properties is a decrease of approximately 481,000 Bbls of oil and a decrease of approximately 3,104 MMcf of gas, or 998,333 BOE calculated with a gas-oil equivalency factor of six.
With respect to our Marcelina Project, the decrease in proved nonproducing reserves of 273,230 BOE in Texas is due to a combination of factors. This reduction was based on analysis by CREST Engineering Services, Inc.
We made various investments and progress during 2015 to convert proved nonproducing reserves to proved developed reserves. Limitations on our ability to develop proved nonproducing reserves in 2015 were due to restraints on our capital availability and depressed industry conditions.
Our current drilling plans, subject to sufficient capital resources and the periodic evaluation of interim drilling results and other potential investment opportunities, include drilling substantially all of the Buda wells in our proved nonproducing reserves during 2016 and 2017. We do not currently have plans to drill the Eagle Ford shale wells in the next year. The area of the Marcelina Creek Field is an active area of Eagle Ford shale development, and we intend to actively explore our options with regard to these proved nonproducing locations and other potential Eagle Ford drilling locations on our acreage.
ITEM 2. PROPERTIES - continued
Production, Price, and Production Cost History
During the year ended December 31, 2015, we produced and sold 27,981 barrels of oil net to our interest at an average sale price of $46.03 per bbl. We produced and sold 113,229 MCF of gas net to our interest at an average sales price of $3.00 per MCF. Our average production cost including lease operating expenses and direct production taxes was $17.38 per bbl. Our depreciation, depletion, and amortization expense was $19.87 per bbl.
During the year ended December 31, 2014, we produced and sold 56,915 barrels of oil net to our interest at an average sale price of $90.58 per bbl. We produced and sold 170,094 MCF of gas net to our interest at an average sales price of $5.89 per MCF. Our average production cost including lease operating expenses and direct production taxes was $14.63 per BOE. Our depreciation, depletion, and amortization expense was $30.43 per BOE.
Our production was from properties concentrated in central Oklahoma and in southern Texas. Reserves from each of these areas comprise more than 15% of total reserves. For 2015, approximately 7,896 BOE was produced at Marcelina Creek and approximately 36,472 BOE in Oklahoma, or 17% from Marcelina Creek and 78% from Oklahoma.
Quarterly Revenue and Production by State for 2015 and 2014 are detailed as follows:
ITEM 2. PROPERTIES - continued
Drilling Activity and Productive Wells
Marcelina Creek Project - Texas
During the year ended December 31, 2010, the Company participated in drilling operations of one re-entry and horizontal extension to an existing well bore (50% working interest). This well was recompleted in 2012 as a successful producing oil well.
During the year ended December 31, 2011, the Company drilled one well (75% working interest). This well was successfully completed as an oil well.
During the year ended December 31, 2012, the Company participated in another re-entry and horizontal extension to the same well drilled in 2010 (50% working interest). This operation was successful and the well is currently a producing oil well. We also participated in a re-entry and horizontal extension of another well (40% working interest), the Coulter #1. This well is currently testing as described above. For 2012, in Marcelina Creek the Company had a total of three producing wells at year end
During the year ended December 31, 2013, the Company drilled one well in the Marcelina Project (75% working interest). This well was successfully completed as an oil well.
As of December 31, 2015, we had three productive wells in the Marcelina Creek Field (2.00 net wells) and one well in the Coulter Field (.40 net well). Net wells consist of the sum of our fractional working interests in these wells.
Central Oklahoma Projects
During the year ended December 31, 2013, the Company began participating in development wells in the Hunton Play. Two producing wells were acquired and three wells were drilled and completed in 2013. During 2014 the Company increased its participation by expanding its lease positions and drilling in the Cimarron, Chisholm Trail, Prairie Grove, and Viking AMI’s. As of December 31, 2014, 10 wells were producing in the Cimarron, 11 wells in the Chisholm Trail, one in Prairie Grove, and one in the Viking. One additional well in the Viking was completing at the end of 2014.
During the year ended December 31, 2015, the Company continued to produce the wells in Oklahoma but did not significantly expand development due to capital constraints and industry conditions. The production and leases in the Chisholm Trail AMI were sold in November, 2015 and the Company was actively seeking buyers for the Cimarron AMI as well. A sale of the Cimarron AMI is expected to close first quarter, 2016.
ITEM 2. PROPERTIES - continued
Combined Well Status
The following table summarizes drilling activity and Well Status at December 31, 2015:
ITEM 2. PROPERTIES - continued
Our acreage positions at December 31, 2015 are summarized as follows:
Marcelina Creek
The Marcelina Creek Project consists of 1,045 gross acres all of which are held by production.
Orogrande
On August 7, 2014, we entered into a Purchase Agreement with Hudspeth Oil Corporation (“Hudspeth”), McCabe Petroleum Corporation (“MPC”), and Greg McCabe. Mr. McCabe was the sole owner of both Hudspeth and MPC. Under the terms and conditions of the Purchase Agreement, at closing, we purchased 100% of the capital stock of Hudspeth which holds certain oil and gas assets, including a 100% working interest in 172,000 mostly contiguous acres in the Orogrande Basin in West Texas. This acreage is in the primary term under five-year leases that carry additional five-year extension provisions. As consideration, at closing we issued 868,750 shares of our common stock to Mr. McCabe and paid a total of $100,000 in geologic origination fees to third parties. Additionally, Mr. McCabe will have an optional 10% working interest back-in after payout and a reversionary interest if drilling obligations are not met, all under the terms and conditions of a participation and development agreement. Closing of the transactions contemplated by the Purchase Agreement occurred on September 23, 2014.
Of the 172,000 acres, 40,154 were scheduled for renewal in December, 2014. The Company renewed the leases for the 40,154 acres during second quarter, 2015. Prior to March 31, 2015, the Company had the obligation to begin drilling its first well in order to hold the acreage block. The well was permitted and spudded and drilling began by March 31.
The Company finalized an agreement to sell a 5% working interest in the Orogrande acreage on June 30, 2015 with an effective date of April 1, 2015. Sale proceeds were $500,000 which were received in April, 2015. In addition, the Company issued 250,000 three year warrants with an exercise price of $.50 to the purchaser.
ITEM 2. PROPERTIES - continued
On September 23, 2015, our subsidiary, Hudspeth Oil Corporation (“HOC”), entered into a Farmout Agreement by and between HOC, Pandora Energy, LP (“Pandora”), Founders Oil & Gas, LLC (“Founders”), McCabe Petroleum Corporation and Greg McCabe (McCabe Petroleum Corporation and Greg McCabe are parties to the Farmout Agreement for limited purposes) for the entire Orogrande Project in Hudspeth County, Texas. The Farmout Agreement provides for Founders to earn from HOC and Pandora (collectively, the “Farmor”) an undivided 50% of the leasehold interest in the Orogrande Project by Founder’s spending a minimum of $45 million on actual drilling operations on the Orogrande Project in the next two years. Founders is to pay Farmor a total cost reimbursement of $5,000,000 in multiple installments as follows: (1) $1,000,000 at the signing of the Farmout Agreement, the balance of which was received on September 24, 2015; (2) within 90 days from the closing, Founders will frac and complete the Rich A-11 No. 1 Well; and (3) within five days of the spudding of each of the next eight wells drilled by Founders, Founders will pay to Farmor $500,000 resulting in the payment of the remaining amount; provided that, in the event that within 90 days after the fracing of the Rich Well, Founders notifies Farmor of its election not to drill any additional wells, Founders shall have no further obligation to make further payment. Upon payment of the first $1,000,000, Farmor assigned to Founders an undivided 50% of the leasehold interest and a 37.5% net revenue interest in the leases subject to the terms of the Farmout Agreement (including obligations to re-assign to HOC and Pandora if the 50% interest in the entire Orogrande Project is not earned) and a proportionate share of the McCabe 10% BIAPO (back in after pay out) interest; provided, however, that for each well that Founders drills prior to earning the acreage, it will be assigned a 50% working interest in the wellbore and in the lease on which it sits.
Under a joint operating agreement (on A.A.P.L. Form 610 - 1989 Model Form Operating Agreement with COPAS 2005 Accounting Procedures) (“JOA”) also entered into on September 23, 2015, Founders Oil & Gas Operating, LLC is designated as operator of the leases. Any variance to the operating plan will be determined by a Development Committee, which committee will be made up of members from Founders and Farmor, or their designees, to discuss and recommend the location of the drill wells, data to be gathered and the form of same. As contemplated under the Farmout Agreement, starting within 90 days of the completion of the fracing on the Rich Well, and at all times subject to the 90 day continuous drilling clause, Founders has the option, but not the obligation, to retain the assigned interest as follows: (1) if Founders spends a minimum of $45 million on actual drilling operations while maintaining compliance with the continuous drilling clause, subject to reasonable delays resulting from reasonable Force Majeure conditions, Founders will have fulfilled its farmout obligations and will be entitled to retain the assigned interests. If Founders does not meet such obligations, it will reassign to Farmor the assigned interest except it will be entitled to retain its interest in the leases covering all wells drilled by Founders and the sections in which such wells are located. Additionally, Founders will resign as operator of the JOA as to all lands reassigned; and (2) Farmor will be carried in all drilling operations during the first two years and/or $45 million in drilling operations, whichever comes last, subject to Founders’ right to recoup certain expenses on “Gap Wells.” After three years and after Founders has earned its working interest, either party may elect to market the acreage as an entire block, including operatorship. Should an acceptable bid arise, and both parties agree, the block will be sold 100% working interest to that third party bidder. However, if only one party wants to accept the outside offer, the other party (the party who wishes not to sell) has the right to purchase the working interest from the selling party.
The Rich A-11 well that was drilled by Torchlight in second quarter, 2015 has been evaluated and numerous scientific tests were performed to provide key data for the field development thesis. During the testing process a poor cement bond was identified preventing a cost effective production test for the primary pay zones. Repair to the well bore necessary for a subsequent frac procedure was determined to be economically unfeasible. With the Rich A-11 designed as a test well rather than commercial target, a decision to begin plans for drilling the next well(s) with larger casing that utilized for future commercial production was made.
Torchlight Energy and Founders have elected to move forward on planning the next phase of drilling in the Orogrande Project. The project operator plans to permit three new wells starting with the University Founders B-19 #1 well. The new wells would be drilled vertically for test purposes and would have sufficient casing size to support lateral entry into any pay zone(s) encountered once the well is tested vertically. Torchlight and the project operator would then run a battery of tests on each well to gain information for future development of the field.
Central Oklahoma Projects
The production and leases in the Chisholm Trail AMI were sold in November, 2015 and the Company was actively seeking buyers for the Cimarron AMI as well, although the Cimarron is owned as of December 31, 2015. A sale of the Cimarron AMI is expected to close first quarter, 2016. The Company retains the acreage in the remaining three AMI’s and the Judy well in the Prairie Grove AMI as of December 31, 2015.
Ring Energy Project
In October 2013, we entered into a Joint Venture agreement with Ring Energy. The agreement called for us to provide for $6.2 million in drilling capital to, in effect, match Ring Energy’s expenditures for leasing. In exchange for this commitment, we would receive a 50% interest in each well bore drilled and the acreage unit it held, until we had spent $6.2 million. At such time, we would then receive a 50% Working Interest in the entire lease block consisting of 17,000 +/- acres. We were to provide $3.1 million in advance of the program commencing, which would cover approximately 5 wells to be drilled and completed. Once the initial five wells are completed, we and Ring would evaluate the program and the drilling activity and determine if another five wells are to be drilled. Should we continue with the program, we would then deposit another $3.1 million with Ring for drilling and completion of the next five wells.
We made the initial $3.1 million deposit and the first five well drilling program is currently underway. Well locations were selected and drilling operations commenced in March, 2014. Seven wells were drilled - three are producing, one can be converted to a salt water disposal well, one was not completed, and two were plugged and abandoned. 3-D seismic data has been acquired to assist the selection of future drill sites.
As of December 30, 2015, the Company had invested approximately $5,500,000 in the Ring Joint Venture.
ITEM 3.