Item 2. Properties
Our properties consist primarily of natural gas and oil leases in the following areas:
•
Marcellus Shale in West Virginia and central and southwestern Pennsylvania;
•
Hilltop area of East Texas; and
•
Powder River Basin in Wyoming and Montana.
Additional information concerning our interests and related natural gas and oil activities in these areas is described under “Item 1 - Business” of this Form 10-K.
Production, Prices and Operating Expenses
The following table presents information regarding production volumes, average sales prices received and selected data per Mcfe associated with our sales of natural gas, oil and NGLs for the periods indicated. Oil, condensate and NGLs are compared with natural gas in terms of cubic feet of natural gas equivalents. One barrel of oil, condensate or NGLs is the energy equivalent of six Mcf of natural gas.
_______________
(1)
Production costs include lease operating expense, insurance, gathering and workover expense and excludes ad valorem and severance taxes.
Drilling Activity
The following table shows our drilling activity for the periods indicated. In the table, “gross” refers to wells in which we have a working interest, and “net” refers to gross wells multiplied by our working interest in such wells.
On December 31, 2011, we had a total of 10 gross (4.5 net) operated wells and six gross (1.2 net) non-operated wells in the process of being drilled or awaiting fracture stimulation in the Marcellus Shale, one gross (0.4 net) non-operated well being drilled in the Hilltop area of East Texas and eight gross (2.8 net) non-operated wells being drilled in Wyoming.
Exploration and Development Acreage
The following table sets forth our ownership interest in undeveloped and developed acreage in the areas indicated where we own a working interest as of December 31, 2011. The term "gross" represents the total number of acres in which we own a working interest. The term "net" represents our proportionate working interest resulting from our ownership in gross acres.
_______________
(1)
We believe that substantially all of our Marcellus Shale acreage is prospective. The Marcellus West acreage reflects that Atinum has earned their full joint venture interest.
Undeveloped Acreage Expirations
The table below summarizes by year our undeveloped acreage scheduled to expire.
We have lease acreage that is generally subject to lease expiration if initial wells are not drilled within a specified period, generally not exceeding three to five years. As is customary in the natural gas and oil industry, we can retain our interest in undeveloped acreage by commencing drilling activity that establishes commercial production sufficient to maintain the leases or by payment of delay rentals during the primary term of such leases. Of the 10,245 net acres expiring in 2012, we are currently focusing on the expiring acreage in East Texas and Marcellus West, where approximately 7,031 acres and 1,478 acres, respectively, are scheduled to expire in 2012. We have already extended or are in the process of extending approximately 2,500
acres in East Texas. In Marcellus West, we anticipate drilling on the majority of the acreage before it expires. Our current plans in Marcellus East are to let approximately 1,623 acres scheduled for expiration in 2012 to expire. In the Powder River Basin area, 113 net acres are expiring in 2012. During 2010, we drilled 16 wells in shallower Devonian formations in the Appalachia area. These wells allow us to retain, for the life of production of our interest, certain undeveloped acreage above the Marcellus Shale for possible deeper drilling in the future. We do not expect to lose significant lease acreage in the Marcellus Shale as a result of our failure to drill or our reduction in drilling activities due to declines in natural gas prices. Based on our evaluation of current prospective economics, in 2012 we may try to renew expiring leases and, if not successful, the acreage will expire in East Texas. We may also allow additional acreage to expire in the future.
Productive Wells
The following table sets forth our working interest ownership in productive wells in the areas indicated as of December 31, 2011. The term "gross" represents the total number of wells in which we own a working interest. The term "net" represents our proportionate working interest resulting from our ownership in gross wells. Productive wells are wells that are currently capable of producing natural gas or oil. Wells that are completed in more than one producing horizon are counted as one well.
Natural Gas and Oil Reserves
Reserve Estimation
The SEC rules expand the definition of natural gas and oil producing activities to include the extraction of saleable hydrocarbons from oil sands, shale, coal beds or other nonrenewable natural resources that are intended to be upgraded into synthetic natural gas or oil and activities undertaken with a view to such extraction. The use of new technologies is now permitted in the determination of proved reserves if those technologies have been demonstrated empirically to lead to reliable conclusions about reserve volumes. Proved reserves must be estimated using the unweighted average of first-day-of-the-month commodity prices over the preceding 12-month period, rather than the end-of-period price, when estimating whether reserve quantities are economical to produce. Likewise, the unweighted 12-month average price is used to compute depreciation, depletion and amortization. Subject to limited exceptions, proved undeveloped reserves may only be booked if they relate to wells scheduled to be drilled within five years of the date of booking.
Third Party Review of Reserves Estimates
For the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, reserves estimates for the Hilltop Area of East Texas and the Powder River Basin of Wyoming and Montana shown herein have been independently evaluated by Netherland, Sewell & Associates, Inc. (“NSAI”), a worldwide leader of petroleum property analysis for industry and financial organizations and government agencies. Additionally, NSAI evaluated the reserves estimates for the Marcellus Shale for the year ended December 31, 2010. NSAI was founded in 1961 and performs consulting petroleum engineering services. A copy of NSAI’s summary reserve report is included as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 10-K. For the year ended December 31, 2011, reserves estimates for the Marcellus Shale shown herein have been independently evaluated by Wright & Company, Inc. ("Wright"), a national firm providing petroleum property analysis for industry and financial organizations with extensive experience in the Marcellus Shale. Wright was founded in 1988 and performs consulting petroleum engineering services. A copy of Wright's summary reserve report is included as Exhibit 99.2 to this Form 10-K.
Within NSAI, the technical persons primarily responsible for preparing the reserves estimates set forth in the NSAI reserve report incorporated herein are Mr. Dan Paul Smith and Mr. William (Bill) J. Knights. Mr. Smith has been practicing consulting petroleum engineering at NSAI since 1980. He is a Registered Professional Engineer in the State of Texas and has over 30 years of practical experience in petroleum engineering and in the estimation and evaluation of reserves. He graduated from Mississippi State University in 1973 with a Bachelor of Science Degree in Petroleum Engineering. Mr. Knights has been practicing consulting petroleum geology at NSAI since 1991. He is a Certified Petroleum Geologist and Geophysicist in the State of Texas and has over 30 years of practical experience in petroleum geosciences, with over 20 years experience in the
estimation and evaluation of reserves. He graduated from Texas Christian University in 1981 with a Bachelor of Science Degree in Geology and in 1984 with a Master of Science Degree in Geology. Both technical principals meet or exceed the requirements regarding qualifications, independence, objectivity and confidentiality set forth in the Standards Pertaining to the Estimating and Auditing of Oil and Gas Reserves Information promulgated by the Society of Petroleum Engineers; both are proficient in judiciously applying industry standard practices to engineering and geoscience evaluations as well as applying SEC and other industry reserves definitions and guidelines.
Within Wright, the technical person primarily responsible for preparing the reserves estimates set forth in the Wright reserve report incorporated herein is Mr. D. Randall Wright. Mr. Wright has been practicing consulting petroleum engineering at Wright since 1988, the year in which he founded the company. He is a Registered Professional Engineer in the State of Texas and has over 38 years of practical experience in petroleum engineering and in the estimation and evaluation of reserves. He has a Master of Science degree in Mechanical Engineering from Tennessee Technological University. The technical principal meets or exceeds the requirements regarding qualifications, independence, objectivity and confidentiality set forth in the Standards Pertaining to the Estimating and Auditing of Oil and Gas Reserves Information promulgated by the Society of Petroleum Engineers; he is proficient in judiciously applying industry standard practices to engineering and geoscience evaluations as well as applying SEC and other industry reserves definitions and guidelines.
Qualifications of Technical Persons and Internal Controls Over Reserves Estimates
The preparation of our reserve estimates are completed in accordance with our prescribed internal control procedures and are subject to management review. We maintain an internal technical team consisting of our Senior Reservoir Engineer and several geoscience professionals, who work closely with NSAI and Wright to ensure the integrity, accuracy and timeliness of data furnished to NSAI and Wright in their reserve review and estimation process. Throughout the year, our internal technical team meets regularly with representatives of NSAI and Wright to review properties and discuss methods and assumptions used in NSAI and Wright’s preparation of the year-end reserves estimates. We provide historical information to NSAI and Wright for our largest producing properties, including with respect to ownership interest, oil and gas production, well test data, commodity prices and operating and development costs. NSAI and Wright perform independent analysis, and differences are reviewed with our senior management. In some cases, additional meetings are held to review additional reserve work performed by our technical team related to any identified reserve differences. Historical variances between our internal reserves estimates and NSAI and Wright's estimates have been less than 5%. In addition, our Board of Directors has a reserves review committee, which is chaired by an independent director. The reserves review committee meets at least once a year and is specifically designated to review the year-end reserves reporting and the reserves estimation process, while our senior management reviews and approves any internally estimated significant changes to our proved reserves on a quarterly basis. The year-end NSAI and Wright reserve reports are reviewed by the reserves review committee, together with representatives of NSAI, Wright and our internal team.
Since 2006, all of our reserve estimates have been reviewed and approved by our Senior Reservoir Engineer, who reports directly to our Chief Financial Officer. Our Senior Reservoir Engineer attended Texas A&M University and graduated in 1978 with a Bachelor of Science degree in Reservoir Engineering and has been involved in evaluations and the estimation of reserves and resources for over 29 years. During the year, our technical team may also perform separate, detailed technical reviews of reserve estimates for significant acquisitions or for properties with problematic indicators such as excessively long lives, sudden changes in performance or changes in economic or operational conditions.
Technologies Used in Reserves Estimation
Proved reserves are those quantities of oil and natural gas, which, by analysis of geoscience and engineering data, can be estimated with reasonable certainty to be economically producible from a given date forward, from known reservoirs, and under existing economic conditions, operating methods and government regulations. The term “reasonable certainty” implies a high degree of confidence that the quantities of oil and/or natural gas actually recovered will equal or exceed the estimate. The SEC allows the use of techniques that have been proven effective by actual production from projects in the same reservoir or an analogous reservoir or by other evidence using reliable technology that establishes reasonable certainty. Reliable technology is a grouping of one or more technologies (including computational methods) that have been field tested and have been demonstrated to provide reasonably certain results with consistency and repeatability in the formation being evaluated or in an analogous formation. To achieve reasonable certainty, our technical team employs technologies that have been demonstrated to yield results with consistency and repeatability. The technologies and economic data used in the estimation of our proved reserves include, but are not limited to, empirical evidence through drilling results and well performance, well logs, geologic maps and available downhole and production data, seismic data, well test data and reservoir simulation modeling.
Estimated Proved Reserves
Our proved reserves information as of December 31, 2011 included in this Form 10-K was estimated by NSAI and Wright using standard engineering and geosciences procedures and methods used in the petroleum industry. The technical personnel responsible for preparing the reserve estimates at NSAI and Wright meet the requirements regarding qualifications, independence, objectivity and confidentiality set forth in the Standards Pertaining to the Estimating and Auditing of Oil and Gas Reserves Information promulgated by the Society of Petroleum Engineers.
In accordance with SEC regulations, estimates of our proved reserves and future net revenues as of December 31, 2011 were made using benchmark prices that are the 12-month unweighted arithmetic average of the first-day-of-the-month price for natural gas and oil (“SEC pricing”). Key natural gas prices utilized were the Henry Hub price of $4.12 per MMBtu, the Katy Hub price of $4.07 per MMBtu and the CIG price of $3.93 per MMBtu. NSAI utilized a West Texas Intermediate ("WTI") posted oil price of $92.71 per barrel, and Wright utilized a WTI spot oil price of $96.19 per barrel. These prices are held constant in accordance with SEC guidelines for the life of the wells included in the reserve reports but are adjusted by lease in accordance with sales contracts and for energy content, quality, transportation, compression and gathering fees and regional price differentials. Estimated quantities of proved reserves and future net revenues are affected by natural gas and oil prices, which have fluctuated significantly in recent years. All of our proved reserves are located onshore within the United States.
The following table summarizes our estimated proved reserves as of December 31, 2011:
________________
(1)
PV-10 represents the present value, discounted at 10% per annum, of estimated future net revenue before income tax of our estimated proved reserves. PV-10 is a non-U.S. GAAP financial measure because it excludes the effects of income taxes. We believe that PV-10 is a useful measure for evaluating the relative monetary significance of our oil and natural gas properties. Further, investors may use the measure as a basis for comparison of the relative size and value of our reserves to other companies. PV-10 should not be considered as an alternative to standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows as defined under U.S. GAAP. We presently have approximately $134.3 million of net operating loss carryforwards, $50.6 million of foreign tax credit carryforwards and $193.6 million of remaining property tax basis for Federal income tax purposes. Based on these carryforwards and current and future property tax basis, future income taxes discounted at 10% total $4.3 million, resulting in a standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows as of December 31, 2011 of $212.8 million.
Pricing Assumptions
In accordance with the SEC pricing guidelines, our December 31, 2011 report of estimated proved reserves and future net revenues were made using the 12-month unweighted arithmetic average of the first-day-of-the-month prices. These prices are held constant in accordance with SEC guidelines for the life of the wells included in the reserve report but are adjusted by lease in accordance with sales contracts and for energy content, quality, transportation, compression and gathering fees and regional price differentials.
The following table summarizes our proved reserves by geographic area as of December 31, 2011:
SEC Pricing Case Proved Reserves (1)
________________
(1)
Key natural gas prices utilized were the Henry Hub price of $4.12 per MMBtu, the Katy Hub price of $4.07 per MMBtu and the CIG price of $3.93 per MMBtu. NSAI utilized a WTI posting oil price of $92.71 per barrel and Wright utilized a WTI spot oil price of $96.19 per barrel.
(2)
PV-10 represents the present value, discounted at 10% per annum, of estimated future net revenue before income tax of our estimated proved reserves. PV-10 is a non-U.S. GAAP financial measure because it excludes the effects of income taxes. We believe that PV-10 is a useful measure for evaluating the relative monetary significance of our oil and natural gas properties. Further, investors may use the measure as a basis for comparison of the relative size and value of our reserves to other companies. PV-10 should not be considered as an alternative to standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows as defined under U.S. GAAP. We presently have approximately $134.3 million of net operating loss carryforwards, $50.6 million of foreign tax credit carryforwards and $193.6 million of remaining property tax basis for Federal income tax purposes. Based on these carryforwards and current and future property tax basis, future income taxes discounted at 10% total $4.3 million, resulting in a standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows as of December 31, 2011 of $212.8 million.
Proved Undeveloped Reserves (“PUDs”)
As of December 31, 2011, our PUDs totaled 41.2 Bcfe, representing a 390% increase from our PUDs as of December 31, 2010. All of our PUDs at year-end 2011 were associated with the Marcellus Shale. The December 31, 2011 PUDs consisted of 19 gross (7.5 net) Marcellus horizontal wells in Appalachia. The increase in PUD well locations in 2011 is due to the successful Marcellus Shale drilling program in 2011. During 2011, we did not convert any PUD reserves to proved developed reserves. The following table summarizes our PUD activity during the year ended December 31, 2011:
________________
(1)
The downward revision of previous estimates of natural gas is attributable to the decision to forgo the recording of an East Texas PUD location due to low natural gas prices which would have resulted in drilling beyond the five year maximum period from the date initially recorded as a PUD.
Estimated future development costs relating to the development of 2011 year-end PUDs is $43.9 million of which 2012 and 2013 expenditures are $40.8 million and $2.5 million, respectively. Under current SEC requirements, PUD reserves may only be booked if they related to wells scheduled to be drilled within five years of the original date of booking unless specific circumstances justify a longer time. All of our PUDs at December 31, 2011 are scheduled to be drilled by 2013, which is within five years from the date initially recorded as PUD reserves. We may be required to remove our PUDs if we do not drill those reserves within the required five year time frame.
Item 3.