ITEM 2.PROPERTIES.
Ownership of Coal Rights
On March 31, 2010, the Company, Future Gas Holdings, Ltd. (“Future Gas”) and JBM Energy Company, LLC (“JBM Energy”) entered into an Assignment and Assumption of Coal Agreement (the “Assignment and Assumption of Coal Agreement”) to transfer and assign all of the rights and obligations of Future Gas under a Coal Buy and Sell Agreement, dated as of February 4, 2010, by and between Future Gas and JBM Energy (the “Coal Buy and Sell Agreement”).
Pursuant to the Coal Buy and Sell Agreement, Future Gas agreed to purchase all coal mineral rights owned by JBM Energy in certain real property located in Judith Basin County, Montana, as described in the quit claim deed attached to the Coal Buy and Sell Agreement, for a purchase price of $1,950,000, with JBM Energy retaining a royalty interest of Twenty-Five Cents ($0.25) per ton on all coal when and as mined from the coal property. The purchase price of $1,950,000 was to be paid by Future Gas to JBM Energy on the following terms and schedules: Fifty Thousand U.S. Dollars ($50,000) upon execution of the Coal Buy and Sell Agreement and One Hundred Fifty Thousand U.S. Dollars ($150,000) on the closing date of the Coal Buy and Sell Agreement. The remaining balance of One Million Seven Hundred Fifty Thousand U.S. Dollars ($1,750,000) was to be paid by Future Gas executing and delivering to JBM on the closing date of the Coal Buy and Sell Agreement, a negotiable promissory note payable to JBM, bearing interest at the rate of five percent (5%) per annum. Payments under the Coal Buy and Sell Agreement and the promissory note were to be secured by a mortgage on the coal property and the other mineral property being conveyed by JBM Energy to Future Gas at closing. Pursuant to the Assignment and Assumption of Coal Agreement, on April 9, 2010, we executed a promissory note in favor of JBM Energy on the same terms described above (the “JBM Note”).
On March 26, 2012, we entered into an Amended and Restated Coal Buy Sell Agreement (the “Coal Amendment”), by and between the Company and JBM Energy, amending and restating the terms of the Coal Buy and Sell Agreement. The Coal Amendment extended the date upon which we must complete a reserve study and mine feasibility study from April 9, 2012 to April 9, 2013. In connection with the Coal Amendment, we also entered into an amended and restated JBM Note as of March 26, 2012, with a current principal balance of $1,350,000, an interest rate of 5% per annum. This note was replaced by a second amended and restated promissory note in favor of JBM Energy on December 11, 2012 (the “Amended JBM Note”). The current principal balance under the Amended JBM Note is $ 1,350,000, and we are required to make the following additional payments:
(a) $100,000 upon the earlier of (i) sixty (60) days following the effective date of the registration statement on Form S-1 which we are filing under that certain Amended and Restated Standby Equity Distribution Agreement, dated as of June 30, 2012, by and between the Company and YA Global Master SPV Ltd. (the “Amended SEDA”) and (ii) March 9, 2013.
(b) Commencing on April 9, 2013, the remaining principal balance of $1,250,000 shall be paid in twelve monthly installments of $100,000 each, plus accrued interest on the unpaid principal balance, with the final principal payment of $50,000 due on April 9, 2014.
(c) Interest payments are due on each of March 9, 2013 and April 9, 2013.
We have the right to prepay all or any part of the principal balance at any time without penalty. Upon repayment of the Amended JBM Note, a quit claim deed will be delivered to us conveying the coal mineral rights which are the subject of the Coal Amendment.
Ownership of Mineral Rights
On March 31, 2010, the Company, Mr. Russell Pace, Jr. (“Pace”) and Future Gas entered into an Assignment and Assumption of Mineral Agreement (the “Assignment and Assumption of Mineral Agreement”) to transfer and assign all of Future Gas’ rights and obligations under the Mineral Buy and Sell Agreement, dated February 4, 2010, by and between Pace and Future Gas (the “Mineral Buy and Sell Agreement”).
Pursuant to the Mineral Buy and Sell Agreement, Pace sold to Future Gas all of the oil, gas, iron ore and all other minerals of whatever nature, except coal, located in Judith Basin County, Montana, as described in the quit claim deed attached to the Mineral Buy and Sell Agreement, for a purchase price of $1,950,000, with Pace retaining a royalty interest equal to twenty percent (20%) of all royalties or other payments received by Future Gas as a result of any lease of the mineral property being conveyed to Future Gas in the Mineral Buy and Sell Agreement, or any portion thereof, and twenty percent (20%) of all net cash proceeds and/or other considerations received by Future Gas from the sale or other disposition of the mineral property being conveyed to Future Gas in the Mineral Buy and Sell Agreement or any portion thereof. The purchase price of $1,950,000 was to be paid by Future Gas executing and delivering to Pace on the closing date of the Mineral Buy and Sell Agreement a negotiable promissory note payable to Pace, bearing interest at the rate of five percent (5%) per annum. Payments under the Mineral Buy and Sell Agreement and the promissory note were to be secured by a mortgage on the coal property and the other mineral property being conveyed by Pace. Pursuant to the Assignment and Assumption of Mineral Agreement, on April 9, 2010, we executed a promissory note in favor of Pace on the same terms described above (the “Pace Note”).
On March 26, 2012, we entered into an Amended and Restated Mineral Buy Sell Agreement (the “Mineral Amendment”), by and between the Company and Pace, amending and restating the terms of the Mineral Buy and Sell Agreement. The Mineral Amendment extended the date upon which we must complete a reserve study and mine feasibility study from April 9, 2012 to April 9, 2013. In connection with the Mineral Amendment, we also entered into an amended and restated Pace Note as of March 26, 2012, with a current principal balance of $1,550,000 and an interest rate of 5% per annum. This promissory note was replaced by a second amended and restated promissory note in favor of Pace on December 11, 2012 (the “Amended Pace Note”). The current principal balance under the Amended Pace Note is $1,550,000, and we are required to make the following additional payments:
(a) $100,000 upon the earlier of (i) sixty (60) days following the effective date of the registration statement on Form S-1 which we are filing under the Amended SEDA and (ii) March 9, 2013.
(b) $200,000 upon the earlier of (i) ninety (90) days following the effective date of the registration statement on Form S-1 and (ii) March 9, 2013.
(c) Commencing on April 9, 2013, the remaining principal balance of $1,250,000 shall be paid in twelve monthly installments of $100,000 each, plus accrued interest on the unpaid principal balance, with the final principal payment of $50,000 due on April 9, 2014.
(d) Interest payments are due on each of March 9, 2013 and April 9, 2013.
We have the right to prepay all or any part of the principal balance at any time without penalty.
Upon repayment of the Amended Pace Note, a quit claim deed will be delivered to us conveying the mineral rights which are the subject of the Mineral Amendment.
Location and Access
The PACE Coal property, which comprises our sole coal and mineral rights, is located approximately 60 miles east of Great Falls, Montana and covers approximately 29,000 acres. The property is located in Townships 14, 15, 16 and 17 North, and in Ranges 11, 12, 13, 14 and 15 East. The property is situated to the southeast and east of the town of Stanford and surrounding the town of Windham, Montana. The property is situated in the Great Falls-Lewistown coalfield, long recognized by the Montana Bureau of Mines and Geology as having bituminous coal. The surface is owned by a small number of ranchers, some non-resident, who raise cattle, hay and some grain crops.
A main line of the Burlington Northern Santa Fe (BNSF) railroad runs through the property, as well as a major East-West highway, Route 87. Two electric transmission lines, a 230 KV and a 115 KV line, run through the south and northwest ends of the property, providing power for any future development and operating phases. Existing infrastructure includes a large interstate natural gas pipeline running east-west along Interstate 90, approximately 150 miles south of the property; Cenex crude oil pipeline running through the property to a refinery at Laurel, Montana; Conoco crude oil pipeline crossing the property; and other natural gas pipelines running approximately 140 and 60 miles from the property.
Below is a map showing the location of the property.
History of Property
A wholly-owned subsidiary of the Great Northern Railroad formerly operated the Lehigh Mine on a section of the Company’s property southwest of Windham, Montana between July 1915 and February 1921. While the operation was ultimately closed on account of the “general depression of business,” the mine did produce over 1.3 million tons of coal during its lifetime, and ended its run with a record of over 306,000 tons produced in its last year of operation, according to the Cottonwood Coal Company report located in Great Northern Railway files.
Thirty stratigraphic test wells were drilled by Mobil Oil Corporation around 1979 on the property to estimate the magnitude of the coal deposits. Cores were taken in nine of these wells with proximate and ultimate analyses performed as well as some float analyses and washability studies. These studies show the coal to be high volatile bituminous B. The test wells found coal thickness up to 15 feet with an average of about 8.6 feet.
Pace and JBM Energy acquired the PACE Coal property in October 1969 from Griffin Coal Mines Company by quit claim deed. We acquired our interests in the property in 2010 as described above. In August 2010, we retained Weir to prepare an exploration drilling program and to supervise its execution to evaluate the coal reserve potential on the property. The program’s aim is to place a significant portion of the coal holdings in the proven and probable reserve classification, with an ultimate goal of establishing enough resources to support a greater than 20-year mine life.
To date, the PACE Coal property in Judith Basin County, Montana is without known reserves and the proposed program is exploratory in nature.
Title Review
On November 21, 2008, Meadowlark Search, a land title search company based in East Helena, Montana, conducted a title search on all the coal and other mineral interests that were conveyed to Pace by quit claim deed dated March 1, 1965 and recorded on October 15, 1969 in Book 156, page 186, Judith Basin Clerk and Recorder’s Office by Giffen Coal Mines Company. Based on this search, Pace acquired title to 100% of all such coal and other mineral interests transferred, with the exception of 480 acres that may be owned by the federal government and 160.9 acres that may be owned by the State of Montana. Meadowlark Search did not attempt to resolve the identity of the correct owner of these conflicting interests. From the deed descriptions, Meadowlark Search calculated that Pace and JBM Energy have 28,591.67 acres of coal and other mineral interest rights, plus an additional 320 acres of all minerals except coal, subject to the exception of a total of 640.9 acres that may be owned by the federal government and the State of Montana.
Drilling Activities
The Company retained Weir International, Inc. (“Weir”) in 2010 to design and supervise our exploration drilling program in Judith Basin County. In addition, we retained Mission Engineering, Inc. to assist us with the prospecting permit application process with the Montana Department of Environmental Quality. In September 2010, Weir delivered the scope of work of the exploration drilling program to the Company. This exploration program was designed to determine the presence of mineable coal seams on the PACE Coal property and provide data that can be used to estimate the quantity and quality of potentially mineable reserves and resources. The exploration program was designed to provide information relative to coal seam thickness, depth of cover, expected top and bottom conditions and coal quality.
The exploration drilling program was planned in three phases. Phase I originally consisted of drilling nine holes, on wide centers, to confirm the potential of mineable coal in the designated mine block. All of the drill holes would be cored to obtain quality information for the coal seam. Phase I also included one drilling hole to evaluate the potential for coalbed methane. When actual drilling of Phase I occurred in 2011, nine drill locations were completed while five holes were cored. Our technical team decided to postpone for Phase III the hole to evaluate the potential for coalbed methane. Phase II originally consisted of drilling eleven holes that, when combined with the Phase I holes, would place a large percentage of the coal holdings in the designated mine block in the proven and probable reserve classifications. Seven of the 11 drill holes would be cored to increase the reliability of the coal quality information for the designated mine block. When actual drilling of Phase II occurred in 2011, eight drill locations were completed while three holes were cored. Phase III originally consists of drilling forty holes, 35 of which are required to place all of the reserves in the designated mine block in the proven and probable reserve classifications. Five holes would be drilled on Pace Coal-controlled properties outside of the designated mine block to determine coal reserve potential. Eight of the drill holes in Phase III within the designated mine block would be cored. Those eight core holes, combined with the core holes from Phase I and Phase II, would provide coal quality information on approximately one-mile spacing, within the designated mine block area. One drill hole outside the designated mine block would be cored to determine the coal quality. To date, only one drill hole of Phase III has been completed and cored. According to the original scope of work prepared by Weir, the results from the Phase I and Phase II drilling would be evaluated prior to conducting the Phase III drilling. It may be necessary to revise the location of some drill holes in Phase III, based on the results of the Phase I and Phase II drilling. The results from Phase I and Phase II would be utilized to determine the final number and location of the drill holes required for Phase III. In April 2012, our technical team at Weir designated 14 Phase III drill holes as priority drill holes. These priority drill holes are expected to further define mineralization, provide additional coal quality data, and provide information to determine if any remaining Phase III drill holes will require coring.
Preliminary Results
Preliminary laboratory results for five core samples corresponding to Phase I of the drilling program showed an energy content with a range of 11,462 and 13,081 Btu/lb measured on a moisture and ash free basis (“MAF Btu”). Sulfur content ranged from 2.0% to 3.7% on a dry basis while ash content ranged from 30.6% to 51.9% on a dry basis. Preliminary laboratory results for three core samples corresponding to Phase II of the drilling program showed an energy content with a range of 12,210 to 13,056 MAF Btu. Sulfur content ranged from 3.2% to 4.9% on a dry basis while ash content ranged from 30.2% to 43.9% on a dry basis. Preliminary laboratory results for one drill location corresponding to Phase III of the drilling program showed an energy content of 12,530 MAF Btu. Sulfur content and ash content showed an average of 3.7% and 35.4% on a dry basis, respectively. We instructed Standard Laboratories, Inc. in Casper, Wyoming to prepare a washability study, including float/sink analysis to be performed on the coal cores, according to ASTM standards. The washability study will determine the amount of ash and sulfur content that could be reduced from the coal seam in order to improve its quality. The following table summarizes the laboratory results for the core samples from nine drill locations analyzed to date.
(1) Thickness of the sample does not represent full seam thickness based on the geophysical log. There was an approximate 57.6% core recovery.
(2) Thickness of the sample does not represent full seam thickness based on the geophysical log. There was an approximate 43.6% core recovery.
Preliminary results from the first two phases of the exploration drilling program were encouraging in terms of coal thickness and high energy content; however, there can be no assurance that an economic coal and/or hydrocarbon reserve exists on the PACE Coal Project or on any other exploration projects we could eventually acquire. Even if we complete our proposed exploration programs and are successful in identifying the presence of coal and/or hydrocarbons, we will have to spend substantial funds on further drilling, engineering studies, environmental and mine feasibility studies before we will know if we have a commercially viable coal, oil and gas deposit or reserve.
Quality Assurance and Quality Control Protocols
To assure the adequacy of the sample collection, sample preparation and the analytical procedures used to develop our analytical results to date, we retained an experienced field geologist who was present during the first two phases of the drilling program. In addition to the general supervision of the project, the responsibility of the field geologist included, but was not limited to, the following: liaison among the Company, drilling contractors, geophysical logging contractor and contract coal quality laboratory personnel; log all drill cuttings and core samples; prepare core samples for laboratory analysis and transport samples from the field to a central location for shipment to the laboratory; maintain comprehensive records of drill holes, core logs, geophysical logs and daily activity; collect coal core from the designated hole for methane desorption testing and record results of the desorption tests; verify that all drill holes have been properly plugged and the drill sites reclaimed.
All recovered cores were logged by the field geologist and digital photographs taken of the cores, with graphical scales included in the photographs. The coal samples were placed in sealed boxes to maintain the integrity of the samples. Each sample was clearly identified, noting the depth of the top and bottom of the samples, along with the sample number. The samples were placed in core boxes, in stratigraphic order, with the boxes clearly marked on the outside to identify the intervals that were contained in the boxes.
All drill holes were geophysically logged by a reputable logging company, Century Wireline Services, familiar with logging coal, utilizing a standard coal suite of logs (i.e., natural gamma, gamma-gamma density, resistivity and caliper). This suite of logs permitted the determination of the depth and thickness of coal seams present in each drill hole. The geophysical logs from the rotary pilot holes were used to determine the intervals to be cored. Geophysical logs are invaluable for accurately determining the depth of the coal seam, coal seam thickness and presence of parting material within the coal seams. Also, the coal seam thickness from the geophysical log can be compared to the measured coal seam from the core holes to determine if core was lost. Copies of the logs were received in paper and digital format.
The commercial laboratory recommended and selected to analyze the samples was Standard Laboratories, Inc. of Casper, Wyoming, which is familiar with the analysis of coal seams in accordance with ASTM standards. A full proximate analysis and sample weight was performed on the coal seam as a raw sample. Partings that were encountered within the coal seam were included with the seam sample. A float/sink analysis has also been performed on the coal seam at a 1.70 specific gravity, according to ASTM standards.
Other Property
In addition to the coal and mineral rights described above, we maintain our corporate offices at 16 Market Square Center, 1400 16th Street Suite 400, Denver, CO 80202. The Company pays a monthly fee of $299 for the use of a virtual office at this address.
ITEM 3.