ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
New Mexico Beryllium Project - Overview
The New Mexico Beryllium Project consists of the Company’s interest in Socorro County and Sierra County, New Mexico described in this report as the Warm Springs area and the outlying hydrothermal areas. The New Mexico Beryllium Project covers an area of approximately 20,000 acres and is comprised of a private lease, state leases and unpatented mining claims. The map below shows the general location of the Warm Springs area in New Mexico.
Unpatented mining claims comprise the vast majority of the project, covering 18,240 acres or roughly 96% of the total acreage of the New Mexico Beryllium Project. Unpatented mining claims are governed by the General Mining Law of 1872 (“General Mining Law”) as amended, 30 U.S.C. §§ 21-161 (various sections), which allows the location of mining claims on public domain lands of the United States upon the discovery of a valuable mineral deposit and proper compliance with claim location requirements. A valid mining claim provides the holder with the right to conduct mining operations for the removal of locatable minerals, subject to compliance with the General Mining Law and New Mexico state law governing the staking and registration of mining claims, as well as compliance with various federal, state, and local exploration, operating, and environmental laws, regulations, and ordinances.
As the owner of the unpatented mining claims, we have the right to conduct mining operations on the lands, subject to the prior procurement of required exploration and operating permits and approvals, compliance with the terms and conditions of the claims, and compliance with applicable federal, state, and local laws, regulation and ordinances. Historically, the owner of an unpatented mining claim could, upon strict compliance with legal requirements, file a patent application to obtain full fee title to the surface and mineral rights with the claim; however, continuing Congressional moratoriums have precluded new mining claim patent applications since 1993.
As discussed below, our unpatented mining claims consist of lode claims and association placer claims. Lode claims are mining claims located on a classic vein, ledge, or other rock in place between definite walls. A lode claim is located by metes and bounds. The maximum length of a lode claim is 1,500 feet by 600 feet. Association placer claims are mining claims located upon sand or gravel. Association placer claims are located by legal subdivision and can be located up to a maximum 160 contiguous acres.
The following disclosure more fully discusses our specific mineral property interests comprising the New Mexico Beryllium Project and has been derived from various agreements to which the Company is a party, together with the Technical Report dated June 5, 2009 prepared by Fred Brown, CPG, Pr. Sci. Nat., and Tracy Armstrong, P. Geo., of P&E Mining Consultants Inc., each an independent qualified person within the meaning of National Instrument 43-101-Standards of Disclosure for Mineral Projects of the Canadian Securities Administrators (“NI 43-101”). NI 43-101 is designed to implement standards of disclosure for mineral properties of companies subject to the jurisdiction of the Canadian Securities Administrators. The Technical Report is available for inspection and review during normal business hours at our registered and records office and has been filed on SEDAR at www.sedar.com.
Cautionary Note to U.S. Investors: National Instrument 43-101 is promulgated under Canadian laws and regulations and uses definitions and standards that differ from those in the SEC’s Industry Guide 7 regarding disclosure on mineral properties. Accordingly, information contained in reports prepared pursuant to NI 43-101 containing descriptions of the Company’s mineralization may not be comparable to similar information that the Company can disclose in the reports it files with the SEC pursuant to the requirements of United States federal securities laws and the rules and regulations thereunder.
Warm Springs Area
Property Description and Tenure. The Warm Springs area consists of 680 acres located in Socorro County, New Mexico. The vast majority of this area, 520 acres, is privately owned by the Sullivan family and leased to us under the Sullivan Lease dated January 2, 2004. We became the lease holder under the Sullivan Lease and certain New Mexico State mining leases and the owner of various lode and association placer claims on October 1, 2007. On April 9, 2008, we executed an amendment to the Sullivan Lease in order to clarify certain provisions of the lease relating to the property description, term, and conduct of operations.
The Sullivan Lease is described as: All of Special Section 2, and access through the East ½ of Special Section 4, Township 8 South, Range 7 West, save and except that portion of the Real Estate conveyed previously to Commissioners of the Acequia de Canada Alamosa of Sierra County, New Mexico.
The Sullivan Lease provides us with the ability to conduct mining exploration and operations with respect to all minerals, including beryllium, in the Warm Springs area of the New Mexico Beryllium Project. The surface and water rights on the Warm Springs area are also owned by the Sullivan family and the Sullivan Lease allows us water rights and surface access to the leased property as necessary for mining and milling operations. In exchange, we are required to pay a gross production royalty to the Sullivans equal to 4% of the annual proceeds from the sale or disposition of minerals, metals and materials obtained from the leased property, and from any claims or leases we acquire within a one mile area of interest from the perimeter of the leased property, in the minimum amount of $12,000 per year. The $12,000 minimum annual gross production royalty payment is due on January 1st of each year for the balance of the lease.
In addition to the royalty, we are also obligated to pay all real property taxes assessed on the leased property, provide accountings to the Sullivan family with respect to monies received from the sale or disposition of ore from the leased property, purchase and maintain commercial general liability insurance and state industrial insurance, conduct our operations in a workmanlike manner, and protect the leased property from liens which result from our activities on the leased property. If we fail to satisfy any of these obligations under the Sullivan Lease, then we would be in breach of the lease, and the Sullivan family could, after providing notice to us and an opportunity to cure the defect, elect to terminate the Sullivan Lease. The Sullivan Lease provides for a term of 20 years and continues thereafter unless terminated by either party based on a default by the other of any of the obligations of the other under the lease.
We hold our interest in the remaining 160 acres of the Warm Springs area under an unpatented mining claim known as Bertrandite claim #45 which we acquired from GWE as part of the 133 unpatented mining claims included in the Acquired Property. This is an association placer claim situated to the south of the area covered by the Sullivan Lease. We acquired this claim in October 2007 as part of our acquisition from GWE.
Accessibility. The Warm Springs property is located approximately 50 miles northwest of the community of Elephant Butte, New Mexico. From Elephant Butte, travel is along the paved portion of state highway NM52 for 41 miles. The remaining nine miles are along the well-maintained unpaved portion of state highway NM52 to the Warm Springs property entrance. Property access is along seasonal four-wheel drive tracks.
Climate. The Warm Springs property is located in a semi-arid, high-desert climate approximately twenty miles north of Chloride/Winston, New Mexico. Chloride/Winston has an average annual temperature range between 18° F in January and 55° F in July. Average annual precipitation is 13 inches, and average annual snowfall is 11 inches.
Local Resources and Infrastructure. The Warm Springs property is currently undeveloped except for seasonal dirt access roads. However, the property is well situated with regard to surrounding infrastructure, with a power line crossing highway NM52 within seven miles of the property. Water in the area is typically sourced from local wells. New Mexico is home to a developed mineral industry, producing coal, uranium, silver, manganese, potash, salt, perlite, copper ore and tin concentrates. The nearby town of Elephant Butte is a small residential community with a population of approximately 1,300 serviced by a modern municipal airport. Albuquerque, a major urban center, lies approximately 170 miles to the north-northeast of the Warm Springs property, and the New Mexico Institute of Mining and Technology is located in nearby Socorro, New Mexico.
Physiography. The Warm Springs property lies in the foothills of the northern Sierra Cuchillo Mountains, just south of Monticello Canyon and north of Iron Mountain. Maximum local elevation is approximately 6,600 feet, with a vertical relief of 400 feet. Intermittent seasonal stream channels drain the property. Local vegetation is typical of semi-arid regions and includes juniper, cedar and pinion.
History. The Warm Springs property lies on the northern-most limit of the Church Rock mining district, which also encompasses numerous beryllium and tungsten deposits at Iron Mountain. Beryllium mineralization at Warm Springs was first reported by M. Howard Milligan in November 1961.
Eighteen exploration drill holes were completed in the 1960’s as part of a USBM project investigating mineralization in the northern Cuchillo Mountains. Drilling was centered on a bertrandite mineralized outcrop. Samples from seven trenches were also taken. The overall drilling depth was limited by the water table. Six drill holes penetrated the surface mineralization and intersected additional mineralization at depth. The deposit was also examined by the USBM with a portable beryllium detector, and additional samples were taken from shallow trenches in the bertrandite mineralized outcrop.
Subsequent to the USBM project, a reexamination of the property was completed by Hillard in 1969, who mapped a thick sequence of andesitic and latitic flows. Later sampling of non-magnetic concentrates in stream sediments yielded anomalous values of lead, molybdenum, zinc and copper.
No original source records of the sampling program or the USBM investigation were available for the Technical Report, except for information contained in Hillard (1969) and Meeves (1966). The location of the USBM drill holes and trenches were not able to be verified in the field by the authors of the Technical Report. The accuracy and validity of the historical results were therefore not established by the authors of the Technical Report.
A total of fourteen exploratory RC drill holes for a total of 7,576 feet were completed in 2001 and 2002 in the general vicinity of the bertrandite mineralized outcrop located by the USBM program. The Beryllium Group, LLC was in control of the project from 2001 to 2002. GWE was in control of the project from February 2004 to October 1, 2007. BE has been in control of the property since October 1, 2007.
The initial six drill holes were completed and the remaining eight drill holes were sealed with a concrete plug with the exception of BE20 and BE25, which were left as water wells for the property owner. All drilling was done with a reverse circulation air-rig with six-inch down-the-hole hammer and tri-cone bit as required. Drill hole collar locations were determined by Mr. David Tognoni using a Magellan SporTrak Pro handheld GPS unit. No drill-hole surveys were undertaken.
Regional Geology. The Warm Springs property lies within the eastern edge of the Datil-Mogollon volcanic field of southern New Mexico. The volcanic field consists of mafic to silicic extrusive units of Tertiary age and Quaternary basalts. The volcanic field is cut along its eastern margin by multiple north-striking normal faults which formed a series of eastward-tilted fault blocks in the Sierra Cuchillo. The Datil-Mogollon volcanic field is bordered on the east by the Rio Grande rift, where a series of rhyolitic ash-flow tuffs have been exposed. Beneath the ash-flow tuffs are latite conglomerates, mud-flow deposits and sandstones representing the alluvial apron which surrounded the Datil-Mogollon field prior to its ignimbrite climax. The base of the volcanic pile rests unconformably upon rocks ranging from late Eocene to Precambrian in age. Much of the area lies on the northeast flank of a major Laramide uplift from which the Mesozoic rocks were stripped by early Tertiary erosion. Basal volcanic rocks resting upon late Paleozoic limestones, quartzites, or shales on the uplift lap off the structure onto Eocene arkosic sediments which overlie Cretaceous sandstones and shales. Locally, Precambrian rocks generally consist of low-grade metasedimentary rocks, metavolcanic rocks, and intrusive rocks ranging from large granitic plutons to gabbroic stocks and diabase dikes.
Property Geology. Hillard (1969) identified several lithologies in the Warm Springs property area. Arranged in approximate stratigraphic order these are: gravel, dikes, flow-banded rhyolite, rhyolite, massive rhyolite, rhyolite tuff, sedimentary rocks, andesitic and latite flows, and latitic tuffs and coarse pyroclastics, as well as a quartz monzonite intrusive plug. Andesitic and latite flows are the most widespread volcanic unit in the area. The surficial geology is dominated by colluvium and Tertiary volcanics. James (1978) further suggests that the local high hills are underlain by a hypabyssal stock complex cut by a swarm of radial dykes. The area is highly faulted, situated on the eastern edge of the graben between the Sierra Cuchillo and the Black Range.
Deposit Types. Beryllium is a lithophile element (i.e. an element that tends to concentrate in silicate materials such as igneous rocks) concentrated in the residual phases of magmatic systems. Commercial beryllium mineralization typically occurs as bertrandite (Be4Si2O7(OH)2) which contains approximately 40% BeO, or helvite (Mn4Be3(SiO4)3S) containing approximately 14% BeO. Nonpegmatic bertrandite has been reported at Mt. Wheeler, Nevada; Lake George District, Colorado; Spor Mountain, Utah; and Aguachile, Mexico, among others. The principal source of commercial production of beryllium in the United States is the Spor Mountain deposit, Utah. Beryllium mineralization at Warm Springs is typical of volcanic-exhalative deposits.
Mineralization. The Warm Springs property hosts beryllium mineralization in the form of bertrandite associated with late-stage faulting of volcanic rocks and intense hydrothermal alteration. Hillard (1969) also reports the presence of alunite and montmorillinite. As reported by Hillard (1969), the surface exposure of the bertrandite mineralization occurs in altered rhyolite tuff along projected fault zones. The mineralized outcrop as identified by the USBM sampling program demarcates a zone of higher-grade bertrandite approximately 100 feet long and 30 feet wide, with additional historical drilling demonstrating mineralization to a depth of 190 feet. The historical USBM drill hole results indicate that mineralization is tightly confined to discrete, narrow zones. Hillard (1969) also reports a zone of weaker beryllium mineralization south of the main mineralized outcrop, which may be due to irregularities in the local fault geometry.
Griffitts and Alminas (1968) suggest that the bertrandite was introduced into faulted volcanic rocks, and is unrelated to local base-metal mineralization. The host rock for the mineralization is hydrothermally altered rhyolite-tuff agglomerate, and Hillard (1969) reports that local beryllium “ore” consists of an altered rhyolite tuff fault breccia with a montmorillonite matrix. Coatings of bertrandite on the fault breccia and spheres of radiating bertrandite crystals in the fine fault material indicate that beryllium mineralization occurred after faulting.
Exploration. We commenced exploration at our Warm Springs property in 2010. Our initial exploration efforts consisted of a phase one, 5-hole core drilling program designed to determine the boundaries of the beryllium mineralization and determined the extent and size of that mineralization.
The first drill hole (location DH5) was completed to a depth of 1,000 feet. Five-foot interval samples were submitted to ALS Mineral for assay. Hole DH5 intersected a beryllium mineralized zone in excess of 100 feet in thickness. Maximum grades in the mineralized zone exceeded 1% as BeO. Assay values for the beryllium mineralized zone of DH5 are reported in the table below:
Assay Results from DH5
________________
True widths have not yet been determined.
Assay samples from the second drill hole did not detect BeO in significant amounts. Results from holes 3 through 5 are still pending.
Since the results of the initial 5-hole program were inconclusive, we applied for, and were granted, a modification to our permit to allow permission to drill an additional 12 holes within the boundaries of the initial permit area. The specific target of the second phase of the program will be the area surrounding DH5. The holes in the second program will range in depth from 200 to 650 feet and will be spaced on a 75-foot grid around and extending to the north of DH5. We continue efforts to determine the boundaries, size and extent of the beryllium mineralization.
Outlying Hydrothermal Areas
Property Description and Tenure. The outlying hydrothermal areas consist of three state mining leases and 817 unpatented mining claims located in Socorro County and Sierra County, New Mexico. The outlying hydrothermal areas lie to the south and east of the Warm Springs area and total approximately 19,008 acres. We acquired the three state leases and 132 of the unpatented mining claims via our acquisition transaction with GWE. We staked the additional 690 unpatented mining claims in May 2008, 5 of which have subsequently been dropped.
The three state leases are comprised of State of New Mexico Mineral Lease Numbers HG 0059, HG 0060, and HG 0061 (collectively, the “State Leases”). The assignments from GWE to our Company were filed with, and approved by, the New Mexico Commissioner of Public Lands on September 6, 2007.
The State Leases cover an area of approximately 928 acres located in Socorro County, New Mexico as follows:
Accessibility. The two outlying hydrothermal areas are 42 miles Northwest of Truth or Consequences, NM and 35 miles North Northwest of Truth or Consequences, NM, respectively. These areas can be accessed using state highway NM 52 & NM 142 respectively from the Truth or Consequences, New Mexico airport. State highway NM 52 is a paved road and NM highway 142 is paved for the first 15 miles and the remainder is a graded gravel road.
The State Leases provide us with the ability to conduct exploration and mining operations to remove and process beryllium and associated minerals from the leased property, subject to the receipt of necessary permits. Each State Lease has a primary term of three years and requires an annual rental payment of $1.00 per acre. The term of each State Lease extends in perpetuity so long as minerals are produced or mined in paying quantities. The term can also be extended in the absence of mineral production for a secondary term of 2 years with an annual rent of $10.00 per acre, a tertiary term of 5 years with an annual rent of $3.00 per acre, and a quaternary term of 5 years with an annual rent of $10.00 in year 11 increasing by $10.00 per acre, per year to $50.00 per acre, per year in year 15. The State Leases also require us to pay the State of New Mexico royalties in the amount of 2% of the gross returns from minerals produced from the property less the actual and reasonable transportation and smelting or reduction costs, up to 50% of the gross returns.
The 132 unpatented mining claims we acquired from GWE cover an area of approximately 18,080 acres and consist of the following 20 lode claims and 112 association placer claims:
Some of these claims are located on property where both the surface estate and mineral estate are owned by the Federal Bureau of Land Management (the “BLM”), while other claims are located on property where the surface estate and mineral estate are separately owned. In the latter case, the surface estate has been transferred to private parties while ownership of the mineral estate, which serves as the basis for our claims, has been retained by the BLM. In either event, we believe we have the right to access the surface as necessary to conduct our exploration and mining operations on all 132 of these unpatented mining claims, subject to the receipt of necessary permits. However, with respect to the claims which are located on property where the surface and mineral estate are separately owned, we may elect to negotiate agreements with the private surface owners in order to more clearly define our rights and responsibilities concerning our exploration, mining, and reclamation activities.
In 2008, we staked the following additional 690 lode claims:
In July 2009, we disclaimed an interest in 5 of the lode claims, including BU #43, BU #111, BU #351, BU #482 and BU #484. The remaining 685 lode claims comprise approximately 13,700 acres, overlying certain of the association placer claims forming part of the Acquired Property. The BLM owns the surface and mineral estate with respect to these 685 lode claims. As part of our claims, we have the right to access the surface of such property to the extent necessary to conduct our exploration and mining operations on all 685 of these unpatented mining claims, subject to the receipt of necessary permits.
In November 2010, we staked 42 additional lode claims in Sierra County and 165 additional lode claims in Socorro County.
Maintenance Fees and Royalties
In order to maintain the unpatented claims on the Warm Springs area and the outlying hydrothermal areas, we are required to pay an annual maintenance fee of $125 to the BLM on or before August 31st of each calendar year, which may be adjusted annually. We are also required to make various filings with state and federal agencies. We are not required to pay royalty payments to the BLM from mining production on any of the unpatented claims.
In addition to royalty payments that may become due to the Sullivan family pursuant to the Sullivan Lease and the State of New Mexico pursuant to State Leases, we are also required to pay a 10% net profits royalty interest to various former owners of our properties and an additional 1% gross profit royalty interest to David Q. Tognoni, our president and chief executive officer. Should payments become due under these royalty interests, such payments are calculated and payable on a quarterly basis.
The net profits royalty interests require us to pay 10% of our net profits from mineral production from the Sullivan Lease, the State Leases, and the 133 unpatented mining claims acquired from GWE as well as from all mineral production from a three mile area of interest around the outside boundary of the Sullivan Lease, the State Leases, and the 133 unpatented mining claims acquired from GWE. The remaining 685 lode claims that we staked in 2008 are located within the three mile area of interest and therefore are subject to the net profits royalty interests, as well as the gross profits royalty interest discussed below. Net profits are determined by subtracting gross royalty payments, marketing costs, distribution costs, operating costs, taxes, interest, capital costs, and exploration costs from revenue generated from mineral production.
The gross profits royalty interest requires us to pay 1% of our gross profits from mineral production from the Sullivan Lease, the State Leases, and the 133 unpatented mining claims acquired from GWE as well as from all mineral production from a three mile area of interest around the outside boundary of the Sullivan Lease, the State Leases, and the 133 unpatented mining claims acquired from GWE. Gross profits are determined by subtracting marketing costs, distribution costs, taxes, and royalty payments (excluding the 10% net profit royalty interest granted to GWE and others) from revenue generated from mineral production.
ITEM 3.