Item 2. PROPERTIES -- Power Supply)). The cost of coal averaged about $49.54 per ton in 1997 which is equivalent to oil at $11.16 per barrel. Montaup coal is under contract, and coal prices have historically been very stable. Montaup also maintained an average inventory of Nos. 2 and 6 oil of 540 barrels and 30,040 barrels, respectively. These fuels are used for start-up and flame stabilization for Montaup's steam generating unit. The cost of Nos. 2 and 6 oil averaged $25.69 per barrel and $18.79 per barrel in 1997, respectively. Montaup also maintained an average inventory of jet oil of 2,816 barrels at an average cost per barrel of $27.11 during 1997 for its two peaking units at the Somerset Station.
Montaup has a two year purchase order effective through December 1998 with a coal producer. Barge and rail agreements for coal transportation are also in place through 1998. The 1997 year-end coal inventory of approximately 58,382 tons is all 0.6% to 0.7% sulfur coal which is compliant with Clean Air Act requirements.
Canal Electric Company (Canal), on behalf of itself, Montaup and others has a one year contract with a supplier for up to 100% of the fuel-oil requirements of Canal Unit Nos. 1 and 2 that expires in March of 1999. The current contracts permit up to 35% of fuel oil purchases in the spot market. Fuel prices are based on oil market posting at the time of delivery. For 1997, the cost of oil per barrel at Canal averaged $17.26. Additionally, Canal has a contract with a gas supplier for approximately 70% of Canal No. 2's daily gas requirements. Canal No. 2 completed its gas conversion and testing in September 1996. The unit is now able to burn gas, oil, or a blend of the two fuels. Economics, generation and supply will determine actual fuel type usage.
Montaup's costs of fossil and nuclear fuels for the years 1995 through 1997, together with the weighted average cost of all fuels, are set forth below: Mills* per kWh 1997 1996 1995
Nuclear . . . . . . . . . 5.7 5.0 6.3 Gas . . . . . . . 16.4 14.4 14.3 Coal . . . . . . . . 18.6 19.6 20.3 Oil . . . . . . . . . 31.0 37.7 30.2 All fuels . . . . . . . . . 19.2 16.7 16.7
*One Mill is 1/10 of one cent
OSP has two gas supply contracts which expire on September 30, 2011, for its two 250 mw generators. The cost of gas for 1997 averaged $1.45 per mmBtu or approximately 12.3 mills per kWh generated.
The owners (or lead participants) of the nuclear units in which Montaup has an interest have made, or expect to make, various arrangements for the acquisition of uranium concentrate, the conversion, enrichment, fabrication and utilization of nuclear fuel and the disposition of that fuel after use. The owners (or lead participants) of United States nuclear units have entered into contracts with the DOE for disposal of spent nuclear fuel in accordance with the NWPA. The NWPA requires (subject to various contingencies) that the federal government design, license, construct and operate a permanent repository for high level radioactive wastes and spent nuclear fuel and establish a prescribed fee for the disposal of such wastes and nuclear fuel. The NWPA specifies that the DOE provide for the disposal of such waste and spent nuclear fuel starting in 1998. Objections on environmental and other grounds have been asserted against proposals for storage as well as disposal of spent nuclear fuel. The DOE now estimates that a permanent disposal site for spent fuel will not be ready to accept fuel for storage or disposal until at least the year 2010. Montaup owns a 4.01% interest in Millstone 3 and a 2.9% interest in Seabrook I. Northeast Utilities, the operator of the units, indicates that Millstone 3 has sufficient on-site storage facilities which, with rack additions, can accommodate its spent fuel for the projected life of the unit. At the Seabrook Project, there is on-site storage capacity which, with rack additions, will be sufficient to at least the year 2011.
The Energy Policy Act of 1992 requires that a fund be created for the decommissioning and decontamination of the DOE uranium enrichment facilities. The fund will be financed in part by special assessments on nuclear power plants in which Montaup has an interest. These assessments are calculated based on the utilities' prior use of the government facilities and have been levied by the DOE, starting in September 1993, and will continue over 15 years. This cost is passed on to the joint owners or power buyers as an additional fuel charge on a monthly basis and is currently being recovered by Montaup through the contract termination charge.
In early 1998, Yankee Atomic, Maine Yankee, and Connecticut Yankee individually, as well as a number of other utilities filed suit in federal appeals court seeking a court order to require the Department of Energy (DOE) to immediately establish a program for the disposal of spent nuclear fuel. Yankee Atomic and Connecticut Yankee are also seeking damages in of approximately $70 million, and $90 million, respectively. Under the Federal Energy Policy Act of 1992 and Nuclear Waste Policy Act, the DOE was to provide for the disposal of radioactive wastes and spent nuclear fuel starting in 1998 and has collected funds from owners of nuclear facilities to do so. Management cannot predict the ultimate outcome of this issue.
Nuclear Power Issues
General:
Nuclear generating facilities, including those in service in which Montaup participates, as shown in the table under Item 2. PROPERTIES -- Power Supply, are subject to extensive regulation by the NRC. The NRC is empowered to authorize the siting, construction and operation of nuclear reactors after consideration of public health, safety, environmental and anti-trust matters.
The NRC has promulgated numerous requirements affecting safety systems, fire protection, emergency response planning and notification systems, and other aspects of nuclear plant construction, equipment and operation. These requirements have caused modifications to be made at some of the nuclear units in which Montaup has an interest. Montaup has been affected, to the extent of its proportionate share, by the costs of such modifications.
Nuclear units in the United States have been subject to widespread criticism and opposition. Some nuclear projects have been canceled following substantial construction delays and cost overruns as the result of licensing problems, unanticipated construction problems and other difficulties. Various groups have by litigation, legislation and participation in administrative proceedings sought to prohibit the completion and operation of nuclear units and the disposal of nuclear waste. In the event of cancellation or shutdown of any unit, the unit must be decontaminated of any residual radioactivity so as to satisfy NRC regulations which generally require that the property be releasable for unrestricted use. The cost of such decommissioning, depending on the circumstances, could substantially exceed the owners' investment at the time of cancellation.
Joint owners of nuclear projects are subject to the risk that one of their number may be unable or unwilling to finance its share of the project's costs, thus jeopardizing continuation of the project. Also, the continuing public controversy concerning nuclear power could affect the operating units in which Montaup has an interest. While management cannot predict the ultimate effect of such controversy, it is possible that it could result in the premature shutdown of one or more of the units.
The Price-Anderson Act provides, among other things, that the liability for damages resulting from a nuclear incident would not exceed an amount which at present is about $8.7 billion. Under the Price-Anderson Act, prior to operation of a nuclear reactor, the licensee is required to insure against this exposure by purchasing the maximum amount of liability insurance available from private sources (currently $200 million) and to maintain the insurance available under a mandatory industry-wide retrospective rating program. Should an individual licensee's liability for an incident exceed $200 million, the difference between such liability and the overall maximum liability, currently about $8.7 billion, will be made up by the retrospective rating program. Under such a program, each owner of an operating nuclear facility may be assessed a retrospective premium of up to a limit of $79.3 million (which shall be adjusted for inflation at least every five years) for each reactor owned in the event of any one nuclear incident occurring at any reactor in the United States, with provision for payment of such assessment to be made over time as necessary to limit the payment in any one year to no more than $10 million per reactor owned. With respect to operating nuclear facilities of which it is a part owner or from which it contracts (on terms reflecting such liability) to purchase power, Montaup would be obligated to pay its proportionate share of any such assessment.
Decommissioning:
Vermont Yankee, an operating nuclear generating company in which Montaup has an equity ownership interest (see Item 2. PROPERTIES -- Power Supply) has developed its estimate of the cost of decommissioning its unit and has received the approval of FERC to include charges for the estimated costs of decommissioning its unit in the cost of energy which it sells. From time to time, Vermont Yankee re-estimates the cost of decommissioning and applies to FERC for increased rates in response to increased decommissioning costs. Maine Yankee has filed a decommissioning financing plan under a Maine statute which requires the establishment of a decommissioning trust fund. That statute also provides that if the trust has insufficient funds to decommission the plant, the licensee (Maine Yankee) is responsible for the deficiency and, if the licensee is unable to provide the entire amount, the "owners" of the licensee are jointly and severally responsible for the remainder. The definition of "owner" under the statute includes Montaup and may include companies affiliated with Montaup. The applicability and effect of this statute cannot be determined at this time. Montaup would seek to recover through its rates any payments that might be required. (See "Connecticut Yankee" and "Maine Yankee" below.)
Montaup is recovering through rates its share of estimated decommissioning costs for Millstone 3 and Seabrook I. Montaup's share of the current estimate of total costs to decommission Millstone 3 is $21.9 million in 1997 dollars, and Seabrook I is $13.7 million in 1997 dollars. These figures are based on studies performed for the lead owners of the plants. In addition, pursuant to contractual arrangements with other nuclear generating facilities in which Montaup has an equity ownership interest or life of the unit entitlement, Montaup pays into decommissioning reserves. Such expenses are currently recoverable through rates.
Millstone 3:
Montaup has a 4.01% ownership interest in Millstone 3, an 1154-mw nuclear unit that is jointly owned by a number of New England utilities, including subsidiaries of Northeast Utilities (Northeast). Subsidiaries of Northeast are the lead participants in Millstone 3. On March 30, 1996, it was necessary to shut down the unit following an engineering evaluation which determined that four safety-related valves would not be able to perform their design function during certain postulated events.
The Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) has raised numerous issues with respect to Millstone 3 and certain of the other nuclear units in which Northeast and its subsidiaries, either individually or collectively, have the largest ownership shares, including Connecticut Yankee. (See "Connecticut Yankee" below.)
In October 1996, the NRC informed Northeast that it was establishing a Special Projects Office to oversee inspection and licensing activities at Millstone. The Special Projects Office is responsible for (1) licensing and inspection activities at Northeast's Connecticut plants, (2) oversight of an Independent Corrective Action Verification Program (ICAVP), (3) oversight of Northeast's corrective actions related to safety issues involving employee concerns, and (4) inspections necessary to implement NRC oversight of the plants' restart activities. Also, the NRC directed Northeast to submit a plan for disposition of safety issues raised by employees and retain an independent third-party to oversee implementation of this plan.
In March 1997, Northeast announced that Millstone 3 had been designated as the lead unit in the recovery process of the three Millstone nuclear units that are currently out of service. Millstone 3 is the largest of the three units currently out of service, and its return to service will most benefit the energy needs of the New England region.
On January 8, 1998, Northeast announced that Millstone 3 was "physically ready for restart" indicating that virtually all of the restart-required physical work had been completed. Northeast indicated that a small amount of systems work needs to be completed prior to restart. Various NRC and independent inspections are required prior to restarted. EUA cannot predict when the plant will be restarted.
While Millstone 3 is out of service, Montaup will incur incremental replacement power costs estimated at up to $1 million per month.
In August 1997, nine non-operating owners, including Montaup, who together own approximately 19.5% of Millstone 3, filed a demand for arbitration against Connecticut Light and Power (CL&P) and Western Massachusetts Electric Company (WMECO) as well as lawsuits against Northeast and its Trustees. CL&P and WMECO, owners of approximately 65% of Millstone 3, are Northeast subsidiaries that agreed to be responsible for the proper operation of the unit.
The non-operating owners of Millstone 3 claim that Northeast and its subsidiaries failed to comply with NRC regulations, failed to operate the facility in accordance with good utility operating practice and attempted to conceal their activities from the non-operating owners and the NRC. The arbitration and lawsuits seek to recover costs associated with replacement power and O&M costs resulting from the shutdown of Millstone 3. The non- operating owners conservatively estimate that their losses will exceed $200 million.
Montaup pays its share of Millstone 3's O&M expenses on a reservation of right basis. The fact that Montaup makes payment for these expenses is not an admission of financial responsibility for expenses incurred or to be incurred due to the outage.
EUA cannot predict the ultimate outcome of the NRC inquiries or legal proceedings brought against CL&P, WMECO and Northeast or the impact which they may have on Montaup and the EUA system.
Connecticut Yankee:
Connecticut Yankee, a 582-mw nuclear unit, was taken off-line in July 1996 because of issues related to certain containment air recirculation and service water systems. Montaup has a 4.5% equity ownership in Connecticut Yankee with a book value of $5.0 million at December 31, 1997.
In October 1996, Montaup, as one of the joint owners, participated in an economic evaluation of Connecticut Yankee which recommended permanently closing the unit and replacing its output with less expensive energy sources. In December 1996, the Board of Directors of Connecticut Yankee voted to retire the generating station. Connecticut Yankee certified to the NRC that it had permanently closed power generation operations and removed fuel from the reactor. Montaup's share of the total estimated costs for the permanent shutdown, decommissioning, and recovery of the investment in Connecticut Yankee is approximately $27.4 million and is included with Other Liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 1997. The recovery of this estimated amount, elements of which have been disputed by certain intervening parties, is subject to approval of FERC. Also, due to anticipated recoverability, a regulatory asset has been recorded for the same amount and is included with Other Assets. Montaup cannot predict the ultimate outcome of FERC's review.
See Fuel for Generation for a discussion of a Connecticut Yankee action against the DOE.
Maine Yankee:
On August 6, 1997, as the result of an economic evaluation, the Maine Yankee Board of Directors voted to permanently close that nuclear plant. Montaup has a 4.0% equity ownership in Maine Yankee with a book value of approximately $3.2 million at December 31, 1997. Montaup's share of the total estimated costs for the permanent shutdown, decommissioning, and recovery of the remaining investment in Maine Yankee, is approximately $35.4 million and is included with Other Liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheet at December 31, 1997. Also, due to anticipated recoverability, a regulatory asset has been recorded for the same amount and is included with Other Assets.
On August 7, 1997, Maine Yankee submitted to the NRC a certification that the plant had ceased operations permanently and a certification that the nuclear fuel had been permanently removed from the plant's reactor. On August 27, 1997, Maine Yankee submitted to the NRC its Post Shutdown Decommissioning Activities Report describing its plan for decommissioning the plant. On November 5, 1997, Maine Yankee submitted a rate filing to the FERC to provide for recovery of its costs during the decommissioning period. The filing provides for the investment in plant, nuclear fuel and associated facilities to continue to be recovered through October 2008. There are several intervenors in this FERC filing and Montaup cannot predict the outcome of FERC's review.
In November 1997, Maine Yankee and Entergy Nuclear, Inc. (Entergy) signed an agreement to renew the contract for Entergy to provide management services to Maine Yankee. Entergy will provide management services for the initial decommissioning of Maine Yankee activities through September 30, 1998.
Also, as a result of the August 1997 shutdown, Montaup and the other equity owners have been notified by the Secondary Purchasers that they will no longer make payments for purchased power to Maine Yankee. The Secondary Purchase Contracts are between the equity owners as a group and 30 municipalities throughout New England. Presently, the equity owners are making payments to Maine Yankee to cover the payments that would be made by the municipals.
On November 28, 1997, the Secondary Purchasers sent a Notice of Initiation of Arbitration to the equity owners of Maine Yankee. On December 15, 1997, the equity owners as a group filed at FERC a Complaint and Petition for Investigation, Contract Modification, and Declaratory Order. The equity owners are seeking an order from FERC declaring that the Secondary Purchasers remain responsible for payments due under the Purchase Contracts and directing the Secondary Purchasers to make such payments. The equity owners also seek a modification of the Secondary Purchase Contracts to extend the termination date or otherwise to ensure that the equity owners may fully recover from the Secondary Purchasers a share of the costs of shutting down and decommissioning the Maine Yankee plant that is proportionate to the Secondary Purchasers' entitlements to energy from the plant. Management does not believe that this contract issue will have a material effect on EUA's future operating results or financial position and cannot predict its ultimate outcome at this time.
See Fuel for Generation for a discussion of a Maine Yankee action against the DOE.
Yankee Atomic Electric Company (Yankee Atomic):
Montaup holds a 4.5% equity ownership in Yankee Atomic. In October 1997, Yankee Atomic announced that it had accepted a Duke Engineering and Services (DE&S) Letter of Intent to acquire Yankee Atomic's Nuclear Services Division. Yankee Atomic indicated it was seeking a purchaser with a long-term commitment to excellence in nuclear operations and support services that would continue to provide that level of service to its affiliated New England nuclear plants. Yankee Atomic's plan is to continue as a smaller organization responsible for the completion of the safe and effective decommissioning of the Yankee Nuclear Power Plant in Rowe, Massachusetts. The acquisition was completed on December 1, 1997.
See Fuel for Generation for a discussion of a Yankee Atomic action against the DOE.
General:
Recent actions by the NRC, some of which are cited above, indicate that the NRC has become more critical and active in its oversight of nuclear power plants. EUA is unable to predict at this time, what, if any, ramifications these NRC actions will have on any of the other nuclear power plants in which Montaup has an ownership interest or power contract.
Public Utility Regulation
Eastern Edison and Montaup are subject to regulation by the DTE with respect to the issuance of securities, the form of accounts, and in the case of Eastern Edison, rates to be charged, services to be provided, and other matters. Blackstone and Newport are subject to regulation in numerous respects by the RIPUC and the RIDPUC, including matters pertaining to financing, sales and transfers of utility properties, accounting, rates and service. In addition, by reason of its ownership of fractional interests in certain facilities located in other states, Montaup is subject to limited regulation in those states. (See Electric Utility Industry Restructuring.)
IPPs, including OSP in which EUA Ocean State has a 29.9% ownership interest, do not benefit from the PURPA exemptions and are subject to FERC regulation under the Federal Power Act as well as various other federal, state and local regulations.
The EUA System is subject to the jurisdiction of the SEC under the 1935 Act by virtue of which the SEC has certain powers of regulation, including jurisdiction over the issuance of securities, changes in the terms of outstanding securities, acquisition or sale of securities or utility assets or other interests in any business, intercompany loans and other intercompany transactions, payment of dividends under certain circumstances, and related matters. Eastern Edison is a holding company under the 1935 Act by reason of its ownership of securities of Montaup. As a subsidiary of EUA, a registered holding company, Eastern Edison is exempted from registering as a holding company by complying with the applicable rules thereunder.
The Retail Subsidiaries and Montaup are also subject to the jurisdiction of FERC under Parts II and III of the Federal Power Act. That jurisdiction includes, among other things, rates for sales for resale, interconnection of certain facilities, accounts, service, and property records.
In 1993, the DTE and RIPUC approved a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) between Eastern Edison, Blackstone, Newport and Montaup which established a framework for a coordinated, regional review of the resource planning and procurement process of those companies. It was based on the assumption that resource planning and procurement by a regional electric company may be implemented more effectively under a coordinated, consensual review process involving the EUA retail companies and the state public utility commissions to which the EUA retail companies are subject. Pursuant to the terms of the MOU, at least every two years Montaup and Eastern Edison were to file with the DTE and Blackstone and Newport were to file with the RIPUC an integrated resource plan concurrently. The MOU outlined a mechanism and a timetable by which the reviews by the two commissions would be coordinated and any inconsistencies among the decisions by the state commissions would be resolved.
In conjunction with its approval of the MOU, the DTE granted Eastern Edison and Montaup an exemption from the DTE's Integrated Resource Management regulations, but required them to plan, solicit and procure additional resources according to newly promulgated regional Integrated Regional Planning procedures consistent with the MOU. The Integrated Resource Management Plan of Blackstone and Newport meet the criteria of the RIPUC.
Implementation of the MOU has not had a material effect on the EUA System. The move to restructure the industry to a more competitive model may, however, impact the role of the states in reviewing utilities' resource planning and procurement activities. Retail customers' direct access to power suppliers and the limitation of distribution companies' power supply activities to standard offer and default services competitively procured from the market may substantially alter the practical effect of state regulation. As competition becomes more prevalent in the electric industry, it is anticipated that regulatory review of power supply will decrease accordingly.
See Rates with respect to regulation of rates charged to customers. See Environmental Regulation. See Fuel for Generation with respect to the disposal of spent nuclear fuel. See Environmental Regulation of Nuclear Power and see Nuclear Power Issues with respect to regulation of nuclear facilities by the NRC. See also Electric Utility Industry Restructuring.
Rates
Rates charged by Montaup (which sells power only for resale) are subject to the jurisdiction of FERC. The rates for services rendered by the Retail Subsidiaries for the most part are subject to approval by and are on file with the DTE in the case of Eastern Edison and with the RIPUC in the case of Blackstone and Newport. For the twelve months ended December 31, 1997, 61% of EUA's consolidated revenues were subject to the jurisdiction of FERC, 15% to that of the DTE and 13% to that of the RIPUC. The remaining 11% of consolidated revenues are not subject to jurisdiction of utility commissions. For the twelve months ended December 31, 1997, 79.9% of Eastern Edison's consolidated revenues were subject to the jurisdiction of the FERC and 20.1% to DTE. Additionally, rates charged by OSP are subject to the jurisdiction of FERC. All OSP (Unit 1 and Unit 2) power contracts have been approved by FERC. However, pursuant to the OSP unit power agreements, rate supplements are required to be filed annually subject to FERC approval. This process may result in rate increases or decreases to OSP power purchasers.
Recent general rate increases (reduction) for Montaup and the Retail Subsidiaries are as follows (In Thousands):
Applied For Effective (1) Return on Annual Annual Common Revenue Date Revenue Date Equity % Federal - Montaup See Electric Utility Industry Restructuring
Massachusetts None
Rhode Island - Blackstone
RIPUC - 2498 3,094 11/15/96(2) 2,821 1/1/97 RIPUC - 2498 2,265 11/15/97(3) 2,265 1/1/98
- Newport RIPUC - 2499 1,437 11/15/96(2) 1,425 1/1/97 RIPUC - 2499 1,031 11/15/97(3) 1,055 1/1/98
Notes: (1) Per final order or settlement agreement. (2) The revenue requirement represents the compliance with R.I.G.L. 39-1-27.4 to file performance based rates reflecting the change in the Consume Price Index for the most recent 2 months ended September 30, 1996. (3) The revenue requirement represents the compliance with R.I.G.L. 39-1-27.4 to file rates reflecting the change in the Consumer Price Index for the most recent 12 months ended September 30, 1997.
FERC Proceedings - Transmission:
Open-access transmission tariffs for point-to-point and local network service were filed with FERC by Montaup in February 1996 and became effective April 21, 1996, subject to refund, for a period of at least one year. The rates in the tariffs were the subject of a settlement agreement which was filed on July 9, 1996 to modify its terms and conditions in conformance with FERC orders No. 888 and No. 889, issued on April 24, 1996.
On December 31, 1996, Montaup filed revisions to its Open Access Transmission tariff necessary to comply with FERC's order on September 11, 1996, which dealt with use rights of High Voltage Direct Current (HVDC) interconnection transmission facilities with the Hydro Quebec system and on January 21, 1997, filed additional revisions to coincide with the NEPOOL Open Access Transmission filing.
On January 3, 1997, as required by FERC in Order No. 889, Montaup filed its Standards of Conduct Implementation Procedures detailing Montaup's compliance with the requirements of FERC's standards. Coincident with this filing, Montaup complied with OASIS's requirements as part of a region wide OASIS in NEPOOL.
On March 4, 1997, FERC issued Orders 888A and 889A which reaffirmed the legal and policy bases in which Orders 888 and 889 were grounded and addressed interventions that were filed in response to Orders 888 and 889. As a result, on July 14, 1997, Montaup filed revisions to its open access transmission service for compliance with FERC Order 888A. The filing incorporates all of the tariff amendments to date.
On June 4, 1997, as supplemented on July 14, 1997, Montaup filed with FERC in Docket No. ER97-3200-000 amendments to its open access transmission tariff to provide for unbundled retail transmission service. Montaup proposed to allow retail customers to obtain retail transmission service directly from Montaup or through Montaup's retail affiliates acting as the retail customers' agent. Montaup requested FERC to allow the tariff amendments to become effective for service to retail customers in Blackstone's and Newport's service areas on July 1, 1997. FERC accepted the amendment to become effective subject to refund on that date in an order issued September 12, 1997. FERC accepted the amendment subject to any modification that may be required as a result of other pending proceedings concerning Montaup's transmission tariff and ordered Montaup to make a compliance filing changing the amendments in certain limited respects. The compliance filing was made by Montaup on October 10, 1997.
On October 29, 1997 Montaup filed an Offer of Settlement for all non-rate issues in FERC Docket ER97-2338-000. This docket included the filing of unsigned network transmission service agreements and network operating agreements with Montaup's non-affiliated wholesale customers. The Offer of Settlement was accepted by FERC on October 31, 1997.
On October 31, 1997 Montaup filed an amendment to its open access transmission tariff to include retail transmission service to customers of the Pascoag Fire District. This filing was accepted by FERC subject to refund and became effective on January 1, 1998. Montaup has concluded settlement discussions with the Pascoag Fire District and has filed an Offer of Settlement with FERC.
On November 25, 1997 Montaup filed an amendment to its open access transmission tariff to include support payments made by Montaup for Pool Transmission Facilities (PTF). The impact of this filing in FERC Docket ER98-861-000 is to increase Montaup's annual transmission revenue requirement by approximately $1.8 million. On January 14, 1998 the Commission consolidated this filing with FERC Docket ER97-4691-000. Montaup has reached a settlement with the municipals and the FERC Staff in this docket and has filed and Offer Settlement with FERC.
On December 15, 1997 Montaup reached a settlement with its wholesale customers and FERC to resolve FERC Docket ER97-4691-000. This docket established a formula rate schedule for Montaup's annual transmission revenue requirement. Filing of the Settlement has been delayed by the Commission's decision on January 14, 1998 to consolidate FERC Docket ER98-861-000 into this proceeding.
FERC Proceedings - Supply:
Montaup submitted an informational filing of a Divestiture Plan on July 1, 1997 whereby Montaup would no longer be a subsidiary of Eastern Edison.
On October 29, 1997 Montaup filed settlement agreements in dockets ER97- 2800 and ER97-3121 among Montaup, Blackstone, Newport, RIDIV, RIPUC and the R.I. Attorney General; a settlement agreement among Montaup, the Division of Energy Resources of the Office of the Attorney General of Massachusetts and Eastern Edison; separate settlements between Montaup and the Middleborough Gas and Electric Department; Montaup and the Pascoag Fire District; and a settlement between Montaup and Taunton Municipal Lighting Plant. These settlements shorten the notice of termination from three years to 90 days. (See Electric Utility Industry Restructuring for further discussion of the termination of Montaup's all-requirements contracts with its affiliated customers and other electric utility industry restructuring issues.)
Massachusetts Proceedings:
On May 16, 1997 a restructuring Settlement Agreement was filed with the DTE outlining terms of a settlement of electric utility industry restructuring issues reached among Eastern Edison, Montaup the Massachusetts Attorney General, MADOER and several other signatories. The DTE held evidentiary hearings on the Settlement Agreement in July 1997, and issued a letter of conditional approval on October 3, 1997. Eastern made a compliance filing addressing specific concerns of the DTE on October 10, 1997 and final approval was expected within 30 days of that compliance filing. In light of pending electric utility industry restructuring legislation, the DTE did not act upon the compliance filing within the 30 days. On November 25, 1997 the Electric Industry Restructuring Act was signed into law and on December 5, 1997 DTE issued a notice seeking comments on whether the Settlement Agreement was in substantial compliance with the Act. Eastern Edison and others provided comments and on December 23, 1997 the DTE approved Eastern Edison's Settlement Agreement. (See Electric Utility Industry Restructuring for further discussion of settlement terms.) On December 31, 1997 Eastern made a partial compliance filing of unbundled rates and Terms and Conditions to facilitate the Settlement Agreement and received an order approving them on January 8, 1998. On February 9, 1998 Eastern made a second compliance filing of retail delivery rates and standard offer and default service. On February 25, 1998, Eastern Edison submitted revisions to its February 9, 1998 compliance filing and on February 27, 1998 the DTE approved the filing. Rates were effective March 1, 1998. Retail choice of electricity supplier started March 1, 1998.
On July 1, 1997, the EUA companies filed their Plan for Implementing Divestiture and Corporate Restructuring with the DTE, seeking approval of the plan for divestiture of generation assets, creation of a transmission affiliate, the transfer of control over transmission assets to that affiliate, and the various financing transactions necessary to accomplish restructuring. At the DTE's request, consideration of the plan was deferred until the third quarter of 1997, and is currently pending before the DTE in Docket DTE 97-105. The plan was updated in a supplemental filing on November 21, 1997.
Rhode Island Proceedings:
On December 18, 1996 the RIPUC initiated Docket No. 2509 to investigate utility company storm contingency funds. Both Blackstone and Newport are recovering through rates amounts for storm contingencies. A hearing was held on February 28, 1997 and a decision was reached in June 1997 directing Newport to use its 1996 Purchased Capacity Adjustment Clause refund from Montaup, approximately $1.2 million, to fund the Newport Storm Contingency fund. Stipulations filed by each of the companies and the RIDPUC outlining individual storm thresholds and deductibles for eligible storm fund coverage were also accepted.
The RIPUC opened Docket No. 2514 to investigate a restructuring plan filed on December 27, 1996 by Blackstone and Newport in compliance with the URA. The plan covered such issues as corporate restructuring, unbundled rates, terms and conditions, and performance based rates. In February 1997, Blackstone, Newport and Montaup reached a settlement with the RIDPUC and the Rhode Island Attorney General and subsequently filed a Memorandum of Understanding with the RIPUC outlining the terms of the settlement for implementation of their restructuring plan. A hearing on the MOU was held on March 20, 1997.
On September 4, 1997, the RIPUC issued an order approving a partial settlement of retail issues. This partial settlement approves specifically the Transmission Cost Adjustment Clause, Customer Terms and Conditions, Retail Delivery Rate Schedules and Terms and Conditions for Nonregulated Power Producers. A settlement agreement filed on June 9, 1997 defining Performance Standards under PBR was also approved. However, as explained above under Montaup's Open Access Transmission Tariff, as amended, in FERC Docket No. ER97- 3200-000, Montaup will directly, or indirectly through Blackstone and Newport, acting as Montaup's agents, bill retail choice customers for transmission service. Consequently, Blackstone and Newport amended their Retail Delivery Rate Schedules and Terms and Conditions for Electric Service by removing the transmission service charges and references thereto from these tariffs, and to cancel their Transmission Cost Adjustment Clauses as the need for the clauses no longer exists. The remaining retail issues were approved by the RIPUC on December 17, 1997.
On July 1, 1997 a Plan for Implementing Divestiture and Corporate Restructuring was filed. After holding hearings the plan was approved at an open meeting of the RIPUC on September 2, 1997, and by written order dated October 21, 1997. Montaup, Blackstone and Newport are required to report on the progress of the divestiture plan.
Also included in the settlement, approved at an open meeting held on December 17, 1997, is a stipulation to expand eligibility to the low income rate. It was also stipulated that Blackstone would sell its Pawtucket No. 2 Hydro Station and associated properties. The RIPUC issued its order December 31, 1997.
Blackstone and Newport made a Standard Offer and Last Resort Power Supply filing on November 7, 1997. By order of December 31, 1997 the Standard Offer filing was found not to comply with the URA since it was not subject to separate bid. However, interim generation services rates and the last resort service rates were approved for service on and after January 1, 1998.
Environmental Regulation
General:
The Retail Subsidiaries and Montaup and other companies owning generating units from which power is obtained are subject, like other electric utilities, to environmental and land use regulations at the federal, state and local levels. The EPA, and certain state and local authorities, have jurisdiction over releases of pollutants, contaminants and hazardous substances into the environment and have broad authority in connection therewith, including the ability to require installation of pollution control devices and remedial actions. In 1994, EUA instituted an environmental audit program for Montaup and the Retail Subsidiaries, designed to ensure compliance with environmental laws and regulations and to identify and reduce liability with respect to those requirements.
Preconstruction Reviews:
Federal, Massachusetts and Rhode Island legislation and regulations require the preparation of reports evaluating the environmental impact of large projects and of ways for limiting their adverse impact as a prerequisite to the granting of various government permits and licenses. Federal, Massachusetts and Rhode Island air quality regulations also require that plans for construction or modification of fossil fuel generating facilities (including procedures for operation and maintenance) receive prior approval from the MADEP or RIDEM. In addition, in Massachusetts, certain electric generation and transmission facilities will be permitted to be built only if they are consistent with a long-range forecast of energy demand filed by the utility concerned and approved by the Massachusetts Energy Facilities Siting Council. In Rhode Island, siting, construction and modification of major electric generating and transmission facilities must be approved by the Rhode Island Energy Facility Siting Board.
Generating facilities owned or operated by Montaup and Newport as well as those in which they have an interest, and are required to pay a share of the costs, are also subject, like other electric utilities, to regulation with regard to zoning, land use, and similar controls by various state and local authorities.
Solid and Hazardous Waste Regulation:
Federal, Massachusetts and Rhode Island legislation and regulations impose requirements on the generation, transportation, storage and disposal of hazardous and solid wastes. In Massachusetts, the state and some of the federal requirements are implemented and enforced by the MADEP, whereas in Rhode Island, RIDEM carries out these activities. Generating facilities owned or operated by Montaup and Newport, as well as those in which they have an interest and must pay a share of the costs, are subject to these requirements.
Superfund Requirements:
Remediation of contaminated sites is subject to federal and state legislation and regulation. At the federal level, the governing statute is the Comprehensive Environmental Responsibility, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980 (CERCLA), as amended by the Superfund Amendments and Reauthorization Act of 1986. In Massachusetts, the superfund statute is known as Chapter 21E, while in Rhode Island it is called the "Industrial Property Site Remediation and Reuse Act." In addition, certain sections of the Massachusetts and Rhode Island hazardous waste requirements are relevant to the reporting, study, and cleanup of site contamination. Such authorities impose liability for site contamination and spills and authorize response by government agencies. Under these provisions, joint and several liability may be imposed for cleanup costs upon, among others, the owners or operators of a facility where hazardous substances were disposed, the party who generated the substances, or any party who arranged for the disposition or transport of the substances. Due to the nature of the business of EUA's utility subsidiaries, certain materials are generated that may be classified as hazardous under CERCLA, Chapter 21E and Rhode Island law. As a rule, the subsidiaries employ licensed contractors to dispose of such materials. (See Item 3.