Item 2. PROPERTIES -- Power Supply). The cost of coal averaged about $49.50 per ton in 1998 which is equivalent to oil at $11.15 per barrel. Montaup coal is under contract, and coal prices have historically been very stable. Montaup also maintained an average inventory of Nos. 2 and 6 oil of 1,748 barrels and 60,066 barrels, respectively. These fuels are used for start-up and flame stabilization for Montaup's steam generating unit. The cost of Nos. 2 and 6 oil averaged $16.55 per barrel and $12.45 per barrel in 1998, respectively. Montaup also maintained an average inventory of jet oil of 2,132 barrels at an average cost per barrel of $20.75 during 1998 for its two peaking units at the Somerset Station.
Currently, Montaup has a one year purchase order effective through December 1999 with a coal producer. Barge and rail agreements for coal transportation are also in place through 1999. The 1998 year-end coal inventory of approximately 93,072 tons is all 0.6% to 0.7% sulfur coal which is compliant with Clean Air Act requirements. Montaup has an agreement to sell its Somerset Generating Station, expected to be completed in the first quarter of 1999.
Canal Electric Company (Canal), on behalf of itself, Montaup and others had a one year contract with a supplier for up to 100% of the fuel-oil requirements of Canal Unit Nos. 1 and 2 that expired in March of 1999. Those contracts permitted up to 50% of fuel oil purchases in the spot market. Fuel prices are based on oil market posting at the time of delivery. For 1998, the cost of oil per barrel at Canal averaged $12.90. Additionally, Canal had a contract in 1998 with a gas supplier of Canal No. 2's daily gas requirements from March through October 1998. On December 30, 1998, Montaup sold its 50% ownership interest in Canal 2 and has an agreement to transfer its obligations under a power purchase contract from Canal 1 expected to be effective in the first quarter of 1999.
Montaup's costs of fossil and nuclear fuels for the years 1996 through 1998, together with the weighted average cost of all fuels, are set forth below:
Mills* per kWh 1998 1997 1996
Nuclear . . . . . . . . . 5.0 5.7 5.0 Gas . . . . . . . . . 15.6 16.4 14.4 Coal . . . . . . . . . 18.9 18.6 19.6 Oil . . . . . . . . . 22.3 31.0 37.7 All fuels . . . . . . . . . 15.7 19.2 16.7
*One Mill is 1/10 of one cent
OSP has two gas supply contracts which expire on September 30, 2011, for its two 250 mw generators. The cost of gas for 1998 averaged $1.38 per mmBtu or approximately $11.5 mills per kWh generated.
The owners (or lead participants) of the nuclear units in which Montaup has an interest have made, or expect to make, various arrangements for the acquisition of uranium concentrate, the conversion, enrichment, fabrication and utilization of nuclear fuel and the disposition of that fuel after use. The owners (or lead participants) of United States nuclear units have entered into contracts with the DOE for disposal of spent nuclear fuel in accordance with the NWPA. The NWPA requires (subject to various contingencies) that the federal government design, license, construct and operate a permanent repository for high level radioactive wastes and spent nuclear fuel and establish a prescribed fee for the disposal of such wastes and nuclear fuel. The NWPA specifies that the DOE provide for the disposal of such waste and spent nuclear fuel starting in 1998. Objections on environmental and other grounds have been asserted against proposals for storage as well as disposal of spent nuclear fuel. The DOE now estimates that a permanent disposal site for spent fuel will not be ready to accept fuel for storage or disposal until at least the year 2010. Montaup currently owns a 4.01% interest in Millstone 3 and a 2.9% interest in Seabrook I. Montaup has an agreement to sell its 2.9% ownership interest in the Seabrook Nuclear Station, expected to be completed in the later part of 1999. Northeast Utilities, the operator of the units, indicates that Millstone 3 has sufficient on-site storage facilities which, with rack additions, can accommodate its spent fuel for the projected life of the unit. At the Seabrook Project, there is on-site storage capacity which, with rack additions, will be sufficient until at least the year 2011.
The Energy Policy Act of 1992 requires that a fund be created for the decommissioning and decontamination of the DOE uranium enrichment facilities. The fund will be financed in part by special assessments on nuclear power plants in which Montaup has an interest. These assessments are calculated based on the utilities' prior use of the government facilities and have been levied by the DOE, starting in September 1993, and will continue over 15 years. This cost is passed on to the joint owners or power buyers as an additional fuel charge on a monthly basis and is currently being recovered by Montaup through the contract termination charge.
In early 1998, Yankee Atomic, Maine Yankee and Connecticut Yankee, individually, as well as a number of other utilities, filed suit in federal appeals court seeking a court order to require the DOE to immediately establish a program for the disposal of spent nuclear fuel. Under the Nuclear Waste Policy Act of 1992, the DOE was to provide for the disposal of radioactive wastes and spent nuclear fuel starting in 1998 and has collected funds from owners of nuclear facilities to do so.
On February 19, 1998, Maine Yankee also filed a petition in the U.S. Court of Appeals seeking to compel the Department of Energy to remove and dispose of the spent fuel at the Maine Yankee site. Under their Standard Contract, the DOE had a deadline for beginning the removal process at all nuclear plants on January 31, 1998, which was not met. On May 5, 1998, the Court of Appeals denied several motions brought in the proceeding, including several motions for injunctive relief brought by the utility petitioners. In particular, the Court denied the requests to require the DOE to immediately establish a program for the disposal of spent nuclear fuel.
Also, Yankee Atomic, Connecticut Yankee, and Maine Yankee filed lawsuits against the DOE in the U.S. Court of Federal Claims seeking damages of $70 million, $90 million and $128 million, respectively, as a result of the DOE's refusal to accept the spent nuclear fuel. In late October and early November 1998, the U.S. Court of Federal Claims issued rulings with respect to Yankee Atomic, Maine Yankee, and Connecticut Yankee finding that the DOE was financially responsible for failing to accept spent nuclear fuel. These rulings clear the way for Yankee Atomic, Connecticut Yankee and Maine Yankee to pursue at trial their individual damage claims. Management cannot predict at this time the ultimate outcome of these actions.
Nuclear Power Issues
General:
Nuclear generating facilities, including those in service in which Montaup participates, as shown in the table under Item 2. PROPERTIES -- Power Supply, are subject to extensive regulation by the NRC. The NRC is empowered to authorize the siting, construction and operation of nuclear reactors after consideration of public health, safety, environmental and anti-trust matters.
The NRC has promulgated numerous requirements affecting safety systems, fire protection, emergency response planning and notification systems, and other aspects of nuclear plant construction, equipment and operation. These requirements have caused modifications to be made at some of the nuclear units in which Montaup has an interest. Montaup has been affected, to the extent of its proportionate share, by the costs of such modifications.
Nuclear units in the United States have been subject to widespread criticism and opposition. Some nuclear projects have been canceled following substantial construction delays and cost overruns as the result of licensing problems, unanticipated construction problems and other difficulties. Various groups have by litigation, legislation and participation in administrative proceedings sought to prohibit the completion and operation of nuclear units and the disposal of nuclear waste. In the event of cancellation or shutdown of any unit, the unit must be decontaminated of any residual radioactivity so as to satisfy NRC regulations which generally require that the property be releasable for unrestricted use. The cost of such decommissioning, depending on the circumstances, could substantially exceed the owners' investment at the time of cancellation.
Joint owners of nuclear projects are subject to the risk that one of their number may be unable or unwilling to finance its share of the project's costs, thus jeopardizing continuation of the project. Also, the continuing public controversy concerning nuclear power could affect the operating units in which Montaup has an interest. While management cannot predict the ultimate effect of such controversy, it is possible that it could result in the premature shutdown of one or more of the units.
The Price-Anderson Act provides, among other things, that the limit of liability for a nuclear incident would not exceed an amount which at present is about $9.9 billion. Under the Price-Anderson Act, prior to operation of a nuclear reactor, the facility is required to insure against this exposure by purchasing the maximum amount of liability insurance available from private sources currently $200 million and to maintain the insurance available under a mandatory industry-wide retrospective rating program. Should liability for an incident exceed $200 million, the difference between such liability and the overall maximum liability, currently about $9.7 billion, will be made up by the retrospective rating program. Under such a program, each operating nuclear facility may be assessed a retrospective premium of up to a limit of $88.1 million (which shall be adjusted for inflation at least every five years) for each reactor owned in the event of any one nuclear incident occurring at any reactor in the United States, with provision for payment of such assessment to be made over time as necessary to limit the payment in any one year to no more than $10 million per reactor owned. With respect to operating nuclear facilities of which it is a part owner or from which it contracts (on terms reflecting such liability) to purchase power, Montaup would be obligated to pay its proportionate share of any such assessment.
Decommissioning:
Vermont Yankee, an operating nuclear generating company in which Montaup has an equity ownership interest (see Item 2. PROPERTIES -- Power Supply) has developed its estimate of the cost of decommissioning its unit and has received the approval of FERC to include charges for the estimated costs of decommissioning its unit in the cost of energy which it sells. From time to time, Vermont Yankee re-estimates the cost of decommissioning and applies to FERC for increased rates in response to increased decommissioning costs. Maine Yankee has filed a decommissioning financing plan under a Maine statute which requires the establishment of a decommissioning trust fund. That statute also provides that if the trust has insufficient funds to decommission the plant, the licensee (Maine Yankee) is responsible for the deficiency and, if the licensee is unable to provide the entire amount, the "owners" of the licensee are jointly and severally responsible for the remainder. The definition of "owner" under the statute includes Montaup and may include companies affiliated with Montaup. The applicability and effect of this statute cannot be determined at this time. Montaup would seek to recover through its rates any payments that might be required. (See "Connecticut Yankee" and "Maine Yankee" below.)
Montaup is recovering through rates its share of estimated decommissioning costs for Millstone 3 and Seabrook I. Montaup's share of the current estimate of total costs to decommission Millstone 3 is $22.4 million in 1998 dollars, and Seabrook I is $14.4 million in 1998 dollars. These figures are based on studies performed for the lead owners of the plants. In addition, pursuant to contractual arrangements with other nuclear generating facilities in which Montaup has an equity ownership interest or life of the unit entitlement, Montaup pays into decommissioning reserves. Such expenses are currently recoverable through rates.
Millstone 3:
Montaup has a 4.01% ownership interest in Millstone 3, an 1154-mw nuclear unit that is jointly owned by a number of New England utilities, including subsidiaries of Northeast Utilities (Northeast). Subsidiaries of Northeast are the lead participants in Millstone 3. On March 30, 1996, it was necessary to shut down the unit following an engineering evaluation which determined that four safety-related valves would not be able to perform their design function during certain postulated events.
In October 1996, the NRC, which had raised numerous issues with respect to Millstone 3 and certain of the other nuclear units in which Northeast and its subsidiaries, who either individually or collectively have the largest ownership shares, informed Northeast that it was establishing a Special Projects Office to oversee inspection and licensing activities at Millstone. The Special Projects Office was responsible for (1) licensing and inspection activities at Northeast's Connecticut plants, (2) oversight of an Independent Corrective Action Verification Program, (3) oversight of Northeast's corrective actions related to safety issues involving employee concerns, and (4) inspections necessary to implement NRC oversight of the plants' restart activities. Also, the NRC directed Northeast to submit a plan for disposition of safety issues raised by employees and retain an independent third-party to oversee implementation of this plan.
On April 8, 1998, Northeast announced that Millstone 3 was ready for NRC inspection indicating that virtually all of the restart-required physical work had been completed. On June 29, 1998, the NRC authorized Northeast to begin restart activities of Millstone 3. The authorization was given after the NRC staff verified that several final technical and programmatic issues were resolved. Millstone 3 was restarted during the first week of July, and on July 14, 1998, Millstone 3 returned to full power operations. The NRC will continue to closely monitor Millstone 3's performance.
In August 1997, nine non-operating owners, including Montaup, who together own approximately 19.5% of Millstone 3, filed a demand for arbitration against Connecticut Light and Power (CL&P) and Western Massachusetts Electric Company (WMECO) as well as lawsuits against Northeast and its Trustees. CL&P and WMECO, owners of approximately 65% of Millstone 3, are Northeast subsidiaries that agreed to be responsible for the proper operation of the unit.
The non-operating owners of Millstone 3 claim that Northeast and its subsidiaries failed to comply with NRC regulations, failed to operate the facility in accordance with good utility operating practice and attempted to conceal their activities from the non-operating owners and the NRC. The arbitration and lawsuits seek to recover costs associated with replacement power and O&M costs resulting from the shutdown of Millstone 3. The non- operating owners conservatively estimate that their losses will exceed $200 million. Montaup's share of this estimate is approximately $8.0 million. In December 1997, Northeast filed a motion to dismiss the non-operating owners' claims, or alternatively to stay the pending lawsuit until after resolution of the arbitration case. These requests were denied in July 1998.
Montaup paid its share of Millstone 3's O&M expenses during the prolonged outage on a reservation of right basis. The fact that Montaup made payment for these expenses is not an admission of financial responsibility for expenses incurred during the outage.
EUA cannot predict the ultimate outcome of the NRC inquiries or legal proceedings brought against CL&P, WMECO and Northeast or the impact which they may have on Montaup and the EUA system.
Connecticut Yankee:
Connecticut Yankee, a 582-mw nuclear unit, was taken off-line in July 1996 because of issues related to certain containment air recirculation and service water systems. Montaup has a 4.5% equity ownership in Connecticut Yankee.
In October 1996, Montaup, as one of the joint owners, participated in an economic evaluation of Connecticut Yankee which recommended permanently closing the unit and replacing its output with less expensive energy sources. In December 1996, the Board of Directors of Connecticut Yankee voted to retire the generating station. Connecticut Yankee certified to the NRC that it had permanently closed power generation operations and removed fuel from the reactor. Montaup's share of the total estimated costs for the permanent shutdown, decommissioning, and recovery of the investment in Connecticut Yankee is approximately $23.8 million and is included with Other Liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 1998. The recovery of this estimated amount, elements of which have been disputed by certain intervening parties, is subject to approval of FERC. Also, due to anticipated recoverability, a regulatory asset has been recorded for the same amount and is included with Other Assets.
On August 31, 1998, a FERC law judge rejected Connecticut Yankee's plan to decommission the plant. The judge claimed that estimates of clean-up costs were flawed and certain restoration costs were not supported. The judge also said Connecticut Yankee could not pass on spent fuel storage costs to rate- payers. The judge recommended that Connecticut Yankee withdraw its decommissioning plan and submit a new plan which addresses the issues cited by him. FERC will review the judge's recommendations and issue a decision on this case in the coming months. If FERC concurs with the judge's recommendation, this may result in a write down of certain of Connecticut Yankee plant investments. Montaup cannot predict the ultimate outcome of FERC's review.
See Fuel for Generation for a discussion of a Connecticut Yankee action against the DOE.
Maine Yankee:
On August 6, 1997, as the result of an economic evaluation, the Maine Yankee Board of Directors voted to permanently close that nuclear plant. Montaup has a 4.0% equity ownership in Maine Yankee. Montaup's share of the total estimated costs for the permanent shutdown, decommissioning, and recovery of the remaining investment in Maine Yankee is approximately $31.0 million and is included with Other Liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 1998. Also, due to recoverability, a regulatory asset has been recorded for the same amount and is included with Other Assets.
On November 6, 1997, Maine Yankee submitted an estimate of its costs, including recovery of unamortized plant investment (including fuel), to the FERC reflecting the fact that the plant was no longer operating and had entered the decommissioning phase. On January 14, 1998, the FERC accepted the new rates, subject to refund, and amounts of Maine Yankee's collections for decommissioning. FERC also granted intervention requests and ordered a public hearing on the prudency of Maine Yankee's decision to shut down the plant and on the reasonableness of the proposed rate amendments. On January 19, 1999, Maine Yankee and the active intervening parties, including the Secondary Purchasers, filed an Offer of Settlement with FERC which was supported by FERC trial staff on February 8, 1999. Upon commission approval, this agreement will constitute full settlement of issues raised in this proceeding.
As a result of the August 1997 shutdown, Montaup and the other equity owners had been notified by the Secondary Purchasers that they would no longer make payments for purchased power to Maine Yankee. The Secondary Purchase Contracts are between the equity owners as a group and 30 municipalities throughout New England. At present, the equity owners are making payments to Maine Yankee to cover the payments that would be made by the municipals. Prior to shutdown, the municipals had been assigned 0.41% of Montaup's 4.0% share and Montaup had retained a 3.59% share.
On November 28, 1997, the Secondary Purchasers sent a Notice of Initiation of Arbitration to the equity owners of Maine Yankee. On December 15, 1997, the equity owners as a group filed at FERC a Complaint and Petition for Investigation, Contract Modification, and Declaratory Order. On April 7, 1998, a Maine judge denied the Secondary Purchasers' motion to compel arbitration and indicated the jurisdictional question should be first decided by FERC. On April 15, 1998, the Secondary Purchasers notified FERC of the judge's decision and asked for expedited action on the pending complaint against them for non- payment. A separately negotiated Settlement Agreement filed with FERC on February 5, 1999, upon approval, would resolve issues raised by the Secondary Purchasers by limiting the amount they will pay for decommissioning and settling other points of contention.
Management does not believe that these settlements, if approved, will have a material effect on EUA's future operating results or financial position.
On August 4, 1998, the Maine Yankee Board of directors selected Stone & Webster Engineering Corporation to execute a $250 million contract for the decommissioning and decontamination of Maine Yankee. The decommissioning plan includes an option for Stone & Webster to repower the Maine Yankee site with a gas-fired plant.
See Fuel for Generation for a discussion of a Maine Yankee action against the DOE.
NRC Oversight:
Recent actions by the NRC, some of which are cited above, indicate that the NRC has become more critical and active in its oversight of nuclear power plants. EUA is unable to predict at this time what, if any, ramifications these NRC actions will have on any of the other nuclear power plants in which Montaup has an ownership interest or power contract.
Public Utility Regulation
Eastern Edison and Montaup are subject to regulation by the DTE with respect to the issuance of securities, the form of accounts, and in the case of Eastern Edison, rates to be charged, services to be provided, and other matters. Blackstone and Newport are subject to regulation in numerous respects by the RIPUC and the RIDPUC, including matters pertaining to financing, sales and transfers of utility properties, accounting, rates and service. In addition, by reason of its ownership of fractional interests in certain facilities located in other states, Montaup is subject to limited regulation in those states.
IPPs, including OSP in which EUA Ocean State has a 29.9% ownership interest, do not benefit from the PURPA exemptions and are subject to FERC regulation under the Federal Power Act as well as various other federal, state and local regulations.
The EUA System is subject to the jurisdiction of the SEC under the 1935 Act by virtue of which the SEC has certain powers of regulation, including jurisdiction over the issuance of securities, changes in the terms of outstanding securities, acquisition or sale of securities or utility assets or other interests in any business, intercompany loans and other intercompany transactions, payment of dividends under certain circumstances, and related matters. Eastern Edison is a holding company under the 1935 Act by reason of its ownership of securities of Montaup. As a subsidiary of EUA, a registered holding company, Eastern Edison is exempted from registering as a holding company by complying with the applicable rules thereunder.
The Retail Subsidiaries and Montaup are also subject to the jurisdiction of FERC under Parts II and III of the Federal Power Act. That jurisdiction includes, among other things, rates for sales for resale, interconnection of certain facilities, accounts, service, and property records.
See Rates with respect to regulation of rates charged to customers. See Environmental Regulation. See Fuel for Generation with respect to the disposal of spent nuclear fuel. See Environmental Regulation of Nuclear Power and see Nuclear Power Issues with respect to regulation of nuclear facilities by the NRC. See also Electric Utility Industry Restructuring. Rates
Rates charged by Montaup (which sells power only for resale) are subject to the jurisdiction of FERC. The rates for services rendered by the Retail Subsidiaries for the most part are subject to approval by and are on file with the DTE in the case of Eastern Edison and with the RIPUC in the case of Blackstone and Newport. For the twelve months ended December 31, 1998, 60% of EUA's consolidated revenues were subject to the jurisdiction of FERC, 16% to that of the DTE and 13% to that of the RIPUC. The remaining 11% of consolidated revenues were generated from EUA Cogenex and EUA Energy Investment and are not subject to jurisdiction of utility commissions. For the twelve months ended December 31, 1998, 79.5% of Eastern Edison's consolidated revenues were subject to the jurisdiction of the FERC and 20.5% to DTE. Additionally, rates charged by OSP are subject to the jurisdiction of FERC. All OSP (Unit 1 and Unit 2) power contracts have been approved by FERC. However, pursuant to the OSP unit power agreements, rate supplements are required to be filed annually subject to FERC approval. This process may result in rate increases or decreases to OSP power purchasers.
Recent general rate increases for Montaup and the Retail Subsidiaries are as follows (In Thousands):
Applied For Effective (1) Annual Annual Revenue Date Revenue Date Federal - Montaup See Electric Utility Industry Restructuring
Massachusetts None
Rhode Island - Blackstone
RIPUC - 2498 3,094 11/15/96(2) 2,821 1/1/97 RIPUC - 2498 2,265 11/15/97(3) 2,265 1/1/98
- Newport RIPUC - 2499 1,437 11/15/96(2) 1,425 1/1/97 RIPUC - 2499 1,031 11/15/97(3) 1,055 1/1/98
Notes: (1) Per final order or settlement agreement. (2) The revenue requirement represents the compliance with R.I.G.L. 39-1-27.4 to file performance based rates reflecting the change in the Consumer Price Index for the most recent 12 months ended September 30, 1996. (3) The revenue requirement represents the compliance with R.I.G.L. 39-1-27.4 to file rates reflecting the change in the Consumer Price Index for the most recent 12 months ended September 30, 1997.
FERC Proceedings - Transmission:
On October 31, 1997 Montaup filed an amendment to its open access transmission tariff to include retail transmission service to customers of the Pascoag Fire District. This filing was accepted by FERC subject to refund and became effective on January 1, 1998. Montaup has concluded settlement discussions with the Pascoag Fire District and filed an Offer of Settlement on January 23, 1998.
On December 15, 1997 Montaup reached a settlement with its wholesale customers and FERC to resolve FERC Docket ER97-4691-000. This docket established a formula rate schedule for Montaup's annual transmission revenue requirement. Filing of the settlement has been delayed by the Commission's decision on January 14, 1998 to consolidate FERC Docket ER98-861-000 into this proceeding.
On January 20, 1998 Montaup revised its Network Transmission Agreements with its retail affiliates to eliminate a provision for an access charge to comply with a prior FERC order.
On November 25, 1997 Montaup filed an amendment to its open access transmission tariff to include support payments made by Montaup for Pool Transmission Facilities (PTF). The impact of this filing in FERC Docket ER98- 861-000 is to increase Montaup's annual transmission revenue requirement by approximately $1.8 million. On January 14, 1998 the Commission consolidated this filing with FERC Docket ER97-4691-000. This docket established a formula rate schedule for Montaup's annual transmission revenue requirement. Montaup reached a settlement with the municipals and the FERC Staff in these dockets and filed an Offer Settlement on all rate issues on March 6, 1998 with FERC and was accepted by FERC on June 25, 1998.
On March 26, 1998 Montaup filed a revision to Schedule 13 of its Open Access Transmission Tariff. This filing provides for the collection of Rhode Island Gross Receipts Tax. This filing was accepted by the FERC on April 24, 1998.
On September 21, 1998 Montaup filed an amendment to its Open Access Transmission Tariff. The amendment was precipitated by a FERC order on July 22, 1998 of NOATT. Three municipals intervened in Montaup's filing. On October 28, 1998, Montaup and the municipals agreed upon a settlement.
On December 14, 1998 Montaup filed revisions to its Standard of Conduct to comply with a FERC order on November 30, 1998.
FERC Proceedings - Supply:
On October 29, 1997 Montaup filed settlement agreements in Dockets ER97- 2800 and ER97-3121 among Montaup, Blackstone, Newport, RIDIV, RIPUC and the R.I. Attorney General; a settlement agreement among Montaup, the Division of Energy Resources of the Office of the Attorney General of Massachusetts and Eastern Edison; separate settlements between Montaup and the Middleborough Gas and Electric Department; Montaup and the Pascoag Fire District; and a settlement between Montaup and Taunton Municipal Lighting Plant. These settlements shorten the notice of termination from three years to 90 days. (See Electric Utility Industry Restructuring for further discussion of the termination of Montaup's all-requirements contracts with its affiliated customers and other electric utility industry restructuring issues.)
On August 7, 1998, Montaup petitioned FERC to approve the sale of its 50% interest in the Canal 2 generating facility to Southern Energy New England, LLC for $75 million. Approval was granted in an order issued by FERC on November 12, 1998.
On October 2, 1998, Montaup filed with FERC an agreement for the transfer of its OSP I and OSP II purchased power obligations to TransCanada Power Marketing LTD (TransCanada) in exchange for fixed monthly contributions from Montaup beginning in 1999 and ending December 31, 2007. TransCanada will assume all future OSP I and OSP II contractual obligations of Montaup less the fixed monthly contributions for the balance of the contracts periods. FERC accepted the agreement on October 29, 1998.
On November 30, 1998, Montaup petitioned FERC to approve the sales of its 160 mw Somerset Station to Somerset Power, LLC for approximately $55 million and its 2.63% interest in Wyman Station electric generating plant to FPL Energy Wyman IV LLC for approximately $2.4 million. This filing is currently pending before FERC.
On January 7, 1999, Montaup petitioned FERC to approve the sale of its 2.9% interest in the Seabrook nuclear generating facility to Great Bay Power Corporation for approximately $3.2 million. The agreement also provides that Montaup prefund its 2.9% share of the unit's decommissioning liability up to an agreed upon amount at the time of sale. Great Bay will assume all future operating and decommissioning obligations of the unit. This filing is currently pending before FERC.
On February 1, 1999, Montaup filed with FERC an agreement for the transfer of approximately 177 mw of its purchased power obligations to Constellation Power Source Inc. (Constellation) in exchange for fixed monthly contributions from Montaup beginning in 1999 and ending December 31, 2009. Constellation will assume all future Canal I, McNeil, Northeast Energy Associates, Blackstone Hydro Electric and Hydro Quebec Firm Energy contractual obligations of Montaup less the fixed monthly contribution for the balance of the contracts periods. This filing is currently pending before FERC.
On February 5, 1999, Montaup petitioned FERC for a declaratory order approving Montaup's Recovery of a proposed buyout of Montaup's obligations under the Pilgrim Nuclear Station Purchased Power Agreement with Boston Edison (BEC) and above market costs of a purchase power agreement with the station's prospective owner. The buyout agreement is in conjunction with BEC's plans to sell the unit to Entergy Nuclear Generating Co. (Entergy). Along with the buyout payment of $115.8 million, assuming a June 30, 1999 closing, Montaup has agreed to a short-term, fixed price purchased power contract with Entergy for declining shares of Pilgrim's output beginning with 11% in 1999 and ending with 5.5% in 2004. Entergy will assume all future operating and decommissioning obligations of the unit. This filing is currently being litigated.
On February 12, 1999, Montaup petitioned FERC to implement a RVC effective April 1, 1999. This filing seeks approval to lower Montaup's CTC to the Retail Subsidiaries as a result of Montaup's generation assets divestiture and other adjustments. Montaup is requesting to lower the CTC it bills from 3.04 cents per kWh to 2.10 per cents kWh for Eastern Edison and from 3.0 cents per kWh to 2.04 cents per kWh and 2.06 cents per kWh in the case of Blackstone and Newport, respectively. This filing is currently being litigated. See Electric Utility Industry Restructuring.
Rhode Island Proceedings:
On November 13, 1997, Blackstone and Newport filed a report on their annual return on equity for the twelve months ended September 30, 1997 as prescribed in the URA. These filings resulted in the refund of approximately $307,000 and $136,000 to customers of Blackstone and Newport, respectively. The annual return on equity reports for the twelve months ended December 31, 1998 were filed on February 16, 1999 resulting in approximately $300,000 and $438,000 being refunded to Blackstone and Newport customers, respectively.
On April 1, 1998, Blackstone and Newport filed their Annual Performance Standards Report in Compliance with Order 15383. This report presented Blackstone's and Newport's performance against each of the Performance Standards based on actual data for the twelve months ending December 31, 1997 resulting in revenue increases of $127,288 for Blackstone and $69,088 for Newport. These increases are being collected through a per-kilowatthour factor effective July 1, 1998 through June 30, 1999. The factor for Blackstone is $0.00010/kWh and the factor of Newport of $0.00012/kWh. Blackstone and Newport will be making their Annual Performance Standard Report filing for the twelve months ending December 31, 1998 in early 1999.
On April 15, 1998, Blackstone and Newport made a Standard Offer Service and Last Resort Service filing, docket No. 2716 with the RIPUC. The purpose of the filing was to comply with the URA by replacing the Interim Generation Service and Last Resort Service tariffs approved for service on and after January 1, 1998. The tariffs were approved in Order 15640 for consumption on and after June 1, 1998.
On October 30, 1998, Blackstone and Newport made a Standard Offer Service Tariff Advice Filing with the RIPUC, docket No. 2834. The purpose of this filing was to update the Companies' tariffs to reflect the change in Montaup's Standard Offer Rate effective January 1, 1999 and also to update the Companies' Last Resort Service rates. These rates were approved by the RIPUC in Order 15756, however, the Companies are required to procure Last Resort Service through a competitive solicitation once the NEPOOL energy markets are operating in early 1999. Effective January 1, 1999, Blackstone and Newport began billing the new Standard Offer Rate at an average of 3.5 cents per kilowatthour.
On March 1, 1999, Blackstone and Newport filed with the RIPUC to reduce their access charge from 2.8 cents per kilowatthour to 2.04 cents and 2.06 cents per kilowatthour, respectively. This filing will change their rates to reflect the residual value credit calculated from the divestiture of Montaup's generation assets which lowers the contract termination charge that Montaup charges Blackstone and Newport.
Massachusetts Proceedings:
On December 31, 1997, Eastern made a partial compliance filing of unbundled rates and Terms and Conditions to facilitate its Settlement Agreement and received an order approving them on January 8, 1998. On February 9, 1998, Eastern made a second compliance filing of retail delivery rates, standard offer service, and default service. On February 25, 1998, Eastern submitted revisions to its February 9, 1998 compliance filing and on February 27, 1998, the DTE approved the filing. Rates were effective March 1, 1998 coincident with retail choice of electricity supplier. On that date, Eastern Edison began billing an access charge of 3.04 cents per kilowatthour and a Standard Offer rate of 2.8 cents per kilowatthour.
On July 1, 1997, the EUA companies filed their Plan for Implementing Divestiture and Corporate Restructuring with the DTE, Docket DTE 97-105. The plan was updated in a supplemental filing on November 21, 1997.
On August 7, 1998, Montaup petitioned the DTE to approve the sale of its 50% interest in the Canal 2 generating facility to Southern Energy New England, LLC. This filing was docketed DTE 98-83 and consolidated with Docket DTE 98- 78, the ComEnergy companies' petition for sale of its generating assets. Approval of the sale was granted in an order issued by the DTE on October 30, 1998.
On December 4, 1998, Montaup petitioned the DTE to approve the sales of its 160 mw Somerset Station to Somerset Power, LLC and its 1.96% interest in Wyman Station electric generating plant to FPL Energy Wyman IV LLC. This filing is part of Docket 97-105 and is currently being litigated.
On January 9, 1999, Montaup petitioned the DTE to approve the sale of its 2.9% interest in the Seabrook nuclear generating facility to Great Bay Power Corporation. This has been docketed DTE 99-9 by the DTE and is currently being litigated.
On February 16, 1999, Eastern Edison petitioned the DTE to approve its guaranty of the obligations of Montaup pursuant to Montaup's purchase and sale agreement with Constellation Power Source. This has been docketed DTE 99-21 by the DTE and is scheduled for a hearing in March 1999.
On March 12, 1999, Eastern Edison made a filing with the DTE to reduce its access charge from 3.04 cents per kilowatthour to 2.10 cents per kilowatthour. This filing will change Eastern Edison's rates to reflect the residual value credit calculated from the divestiture of Montaup's generation assets which lowers the contract termination charge that Montaup charges Eastern Edison. This filing also requests an increase in Eastern Edison's Standard Offer Rate from the current 3.1 cents per kilowatthour, which became effective January 1, 1999, to 3.5 cents per kilowatthour. This filing is currently being litigated.
Environmental Regulation
General:
The Retail Subsidiaries and Montaup and other companies owning generating units from which power is obtained are subject, like other electric utilities, to environmental and land use regulations at the federal, state and local levels. The EPA, and certain state and local authorities, have jurisdiction over releases of pollutants, contaminants and hazardous substances into the environment and have broad authority in connection therewith, including the ability to require installation of pollution control devices and remedial actions. In 1994, EUA instituted an environmental audit program for Montaup and the Retail Subsidiaries, designed to ensure compliance with environmental laws and regulations and to identify and reduce liability with respect to those requirements.
Preconstruction Reviews:
Federal, Massachusetts and Rhode Island legislation and regulations require the preparation of reports evaluating the environmental impact of large projects and of ways for limiting their adverse impact as a prerequisite to the granting of various government permits and licenses. Federal, Massachusetts and Rhode Island air quality regulations also require that plans for construction or modification of fossil fuel generating facilities (including procedures for operation and maintenance) receive prior approval from the MADEP or RIDEM. In addition, in Massachusetts, certain electric generation and transmission facilities will be permitted to be built only if they are consistent with a long-range forecast of energy demand filed by the utility concerned and approved by the Massachusetts Energy Facilities Siting Council. In Rhode Island, siting, construction and modification of major electric generating and transmission facilities must be approved by the Rhode Island Energy Facility Siting Board.
Generating facilities owned or operated by Montaup and Newport as well as those in which they have an interest, and are required to pay a share of the costs, are also subject, like other electric utilities, to regulation with regard to zoning, land use, and similar controls by various state and local authorities.
Solid and Hazardous Waste Regulation:
Federal, Massachusetts and Rhode Island legislation and regulations impose requirements on the generation, transportation, storage and disposal of hazardous and solid wastes. In Massachusetts, the state and some of the federal requirements are implemented and enforced by the MADEP, whereas in Rhode Island, RIDEM carries out these activities. Generating facilities owned or operated by Montaup and Newport, as well as those in which they have an interest and must pay a share of the costs, are subject to these requirements.
Superfund Requirements:
Remediation of contaminated sites is subject to federal and state legislation and regulation. At the federal level, the governing statute is the Comprehensive Environmental Responsibility, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980 (CERCLA), as amended by the Superfund Amendments and Reauthorization Act of 1986. In Massachusetts, the superfund statute is known as Chapter 21E, while in Rhode Island it is called the "Industrial Property Site Remediation and Reuse Act." In addition, certain sections of the Massachusetts and Rhode Island hazardous waste requirements are relevant to the reporting, study, and cleanup of site contamination. Such authorities impose liability for site contamination and spills and authorize response by government agencies. Under these provisions, joint and several liability may be imposed for cleanup costs upon, among others, the owners or operators of a facility where hazardous substances were disposed, the party who generated the substances, or any party who arranged for the disposition or transport of the substances. Due to the nature of the business of EUA's utility subsidiaries, certain materials are generated that may be classified as hazardous under CERCLA, Chapter 21E and Rhode Island law. As a rule, the subsidiaries employ licensed contractors to dispose of such materials. (See Item 3.