Item 2. PROPERTIES -- Power Supply)). The cost of coal averaged about $49.90 per ton in 1996 which is equivalent to oil at $12.16 per barrel. This was the same as 1995. Montaup coal is under contract, and coal prices have historically been very stable. Montaup also maintained an average inventory of Nos. 2 and 6 oil of 2,102 barrels and 45,070 barrels, respectively. These fuels are used for start-up and flame stabilization for Montaup's steam generating unit. The cost of Nos. 2 and 6 oil averaged $22.27 per barrel and $17.19 per barrel in 1996, respectively. Montaup also maintained an average inventory of jet oil of 3,573 barrels at an average cost per barrel of $25.83 during 1996 for its two peaking units at the Somerset Station.
Montaup has a two year purchase order effective through December 1998 with a coal producer. Barge and rail agreements for coal transportation are also in place through 1998. The 1996 year-end coal inventory of approximately 82,000 tons is all 0.6% to 0.7% sulfur coal which is compliant with Clean Air Act requirements.
Canal Electric Company (Canal), on behalf of itself, Montaup and others has contracts with a supplier for up to 100% of the fuel-oil requirements of Canal Unit Nos. 1 and 2 for the period ending December 31, 1997 with an option of extending the contracts through March 31, 1998. The current contracts permit up to 35% of fuel oil purchases in the spot market. Fuel prices are based on oil market posting at the time of delivery. For 1996, the cost of oil per barrel at Canal averaged $18.67. Additionally, Canal has a contract with a gas supplier for approximately 70% of Canal 2's daily gas requirements. Canal 2 completed its gas conversion and testing in September 1996. The unit is now able to burn gas, oil, or a blend of the two fuels. Economics, generation and supply will determine actual fuel type usage.
Montaup's costs of fossil and nuclear fuels for the years 1994 through 1996, together with the weighted average cost of all fuels, are set forth below:
Mills* per kWh 1996 1995 1994
Nuclear . . . . . . . . . 5.0 6.3 6.1 Gas . . . . . . . . . 14.4 14.3 14.1 Coal . . . . . . . . . 19.6 20.3 20.9 Oil . . . . . . . . . 37.7 30.2 27.1 All fuels . . . . . . . . . 16.7 16.7 14.5
*One Mill is 1/10 of one cent
The rate schedules of Montaup and the Retail Subsidiaries are designed to pass on to customers the increases and decreases in fuel costs and the cost of purchased power, subject to review and approval by appropriate regulatory authorities (see Rates below).
OSP has two gas supply contracts which expire December 14, 2009 and September 29, 2010, respectively, for its two 250 mw generators. The cost of gas for 1996 averaged $1.20 per MBTU or approximately 10.0 mills per kWh generated.
The owners (or lead participants) of the nuclear units in which Montaup has an interest have made, or expect to make, various arrangements for the acquisition of uranium concentrate, the conversion, enrichment, fabrication and utilization of nuclear fuel and the disposition of that fuel after use. The owners (or lead participants) of United States nuclear units have entered into contracts with the DOE for disposal of spent nuclear fuel in accordance with the NWPA. The NWPA requires (subject to various contingencies) that the federal government design, license, construct and operate a permanent repository for high level radioactive wastes and spent nuclear fuel and establish a prescribed fee for the disposal of such wastes and nuclear fuel. The NWPA specifies that the DOE provide for the disposal of such waste and spent nuclear fuel starting in 1998. Objections on environmental and other grounds have been asserted against proposals for storage as well as disposal of spent nuclear fuel. The DOE now estimates that a permanent disposal site for spent fuel will not be ready to accept fuel for storage or disposal until as late as the year 2010. Montaup owns a 4.01% interest in Millstone III and a 2.9% interest in Seabrook I. Northeast Utilities, the operator of the units, indicates that Millstone III has sufficient on-site storage facilities which, with rack additions, can accommodate its spent fuel for the projected life of the unit. At the Seabrook Project, there is on-site storage capacity which, with rack additions, will be sufficient to at least the year 2011.
The Energy Policy Act of 1992 requires that a fund be created for the decommissioning and decontamination of the DOE uranium enrichment facilities. The fund will be financed in part by special assessments on nuclear power plants in which Montaup has an interest. These assessments are calculated based on the utilities' prior use of the government facilities and have been levied by the DOE, starting in September 1993, and will continue over 15 years. This cost is passed on to the joint owners or power buyers as an additional fuel charge on a monthly basis and is currently being recovered by Montaup through fuel rates and will be collected through the contract termination charge.
Nuclear Power Issues
General:
Nuclear generating facilities, including those in service in which Montaup participates, as shown in the table under Item 2. PROPERTIES -- Power Supply, are subject to extensive regulation by the NRC. The NRC is empowered to authorize the siting, construction and operation of nuclear reactors after consideration of public health, safety, environmental and anti-trust matters.
The NRC has promulgated numerous requirements affecting safety systems, fire protection, emergency response planning and notification systems, and other aspects of nuclear plant construction, equipment and operation. These requirements have caused modifications to be made at some of the nuclear units in which Montaup has an interest. Montaup has been affected, to the extent of its proportionate share, by the costs of such modifications.
Nuclear units in the United States have been subject to widespread criticism and opposition. Some nuclear projects have been cancelled following substantial construction delays and cost overruns as the result of licensing problems, unanticipated construction defects and other difficulties. Various groups have by litigation, legislation and participation in administrative proceedings sought to prohibit the completion and operation of nuclear units and the disposal of nuclear waste. In the event of cancellation or shutdown of any unit, NRC regulations require that it be decontaminated of any residual radioactivity sufficiently so that the property may be released for unrestricted use. The cost of such decommissioning, depending on the circumstances, could substantially exceed the owners' investment at the time of cancellation.
Joint owners of nuclear projects are subject to the risk that one of their number may be unable or unwilling to finance its share of the project's costs, thus jeopardizing continuation of the project. Also, the continuing public controversy concerning nuclear power could affect the operating units in which Montaup has an interest. While management cannot predict the ultimate effect of such controversy, it is possible that it could result in the premature shutdown of one or more of the units.
The Price-Anderson Act provides, among other things, that the liability for damages resulting from a nuclear incident would not exceed an amount which at present is about $8.7 billion. Under the Price-Anderson Act, prior to operation of a nuclear reactor, the licensee is required to insure against this exposure by purchasing the maximum amount of liability insurance available from private sources (currently $200 million) and to maintain the insurance available under a mandatory industry-wide retrospective rating program. Should an individual licensee's liability for an incident exceed $200 million, the difference between such liability and the overall maximum liability, currently about $8.7 billion, will be made up by the retrospective rating program. Under such a program, each owner of an operating nuclear facility may be assessed a retrospective premium of up to a limit of $79.3 million (which shall be adjusted for inflation at least every five years) for each reactor owned in the event of any one nuclear incident occurring at any reactor in the United States, with provision for payment of such assessment to be made over time as necessary to limit the payment in any one year to no more than $10 million per reactor owned. With respect to operating nuclear facilities of which it is a part owner or from which it contracts (on terms reflecting such liability) to purchase power, Montaup would be obligated to pay its proportionate share of any such assessment.
Decommissioning:
Both of the operating nuclear generating companies in which Montaup has an equity ownership interest (see Item 2. PROPERTIES -- Power Supply) have developed their estimates of the cost of decommissioning its unit and have received the approval of FERC to include charges for the estimated costs of decommissioning its unit in the cost of energy which it sells. From time to time, these companies re-estimate the cost of decommissioning and apply to FERC for increased rates in response to increased decommissioning costs. Maine Yankee has filed a decommissioning financing plan under a Maine statute which requires the establishment of a decommissioning trust fund. That statute also provides that if the trust has insufficient funds to decommission the plant, the licensee (Maine Yankee) is responsible for the deficiency and, if the licensee is unable to provide the entire amount, the "owners" of the licensee are jointly and severally responsible for the remainder. The definition of "owner" under the statute includes Montaup and may include companies affiliated with Montaup. The applicability and effect of this statute cannot be determined at this time. Montaup would seek to recover through its rates any payments that might be required (see "Yankee Atomic", and "Connecticut Yankee" below).
Montaup is recovering through rates its share of estimated decommissioning costs for Millstone III and Seabrook I. Montaup's share of the current estimate of total costs to decommission Millstone III is $18.6 million in 1996 dollars, and Seabrook I is $13.1 million in 1996 dollars. These figures are based on studies performed for the lead owners of the plants. In addition, pursuant to contractual arrangements with other nuclear generating facilities in which Montaup has an equity ownership interest or life of the unit entitlement, Montaup pays into decommissioning reserves. Such expenses are currently recoverable through rates.
Yankee Atomic:
On February 26, 1992, Yankee Atomic announced that it would permanently cease power operation of Yankee Rowe and began preparing for an orderly decommissioning of the facility. Montaup has a 4.5% equity ownership in Yankee Atomic with a book value of approximately $1.1 million at December 31, 1996. Under the terms of its purchased power contract with the facility, Montaup must pay its proportionate share of unrecovered costs and expenses incurred after the plant is retired. In December 1992, Yankee Atomic received FERC authorization to recover essentially all unrecovered assets and all costs incurred after the February 26, 1992 shutdown decision until the plant is decommissioned. Montaup's share of all unrecovered assets and the total estimated costs to decommission the unit aggregated approximately $7.8 million at December 31, 1996.
Connecticut Yankee:
Connecticut Yankee, a 582-mw nuclear unit, was taken off-line in July 1996 because of issues related to certain containment air recirculation and service water systems. Montaup has a 4.5% equity ownership in Connecticut Yankee with a book value of $4.8 million at December 31, 1996.
In October 1996, Montaup, as one of the joint owners, participated in an economic evaluation of Connecticut Yankee which recommended permanently closing the unit and replacing its output with less expensive energy sources. As a result of the analysis, work at the plant had slowed pending a final board decision. In December 1996, the Board of Directors voted to retire the generating station. Connecticut Yankee certified to the NRC that it had permanently closed power generation operations and removed fuel from the reactor. Connecticut Yankee has two years to submit its decommissioning plan to the NRC. The preliminary estimate of the sum of future payments for the permanent shutdown, decommissioning, and recovery of the remaining investment in Connecticut Yankee, is approximately $758 million. Montaup's share of the total estimated costs is $34.1 million.
Recent NRC Actions:
Millstone III
Montaup has a 4.01% ownership interest in Millstone III, an 1154-mw nuclear unit that is jointly owned by a number of New England utilities, including subsidiaries of Northeast Utilities (Northeast). Northeast is the lead participant in Millstone III, and on March 30, 1996, Northeast determined it was necessary to shut down the unit following an engineering evaluation which determined that four safety-related valves would not be able to perform their design function during certain postulated events.
The NRC has raised numerous issues with respect to Millstone III and certain of the other nuclear units in which Northeast and its subsidiaries, either individually or collectively, have the largest ownership shares, including Connecticut Yankee (see "Connecticut Yankee" above).
In July 1996 Northeast reported that it has been responding to a series of requests from the NRC seeking assurance that the Millstone III unit will be operated in accordance with the terms of its operating license and other NRC requirements and regulations and dealing with a series of issues that Northeast has identified in the course of these reviews. Providing these assurances and addressing these issues will be components of an Operational Readiness Plan (ORP) to be developed for the Millstone III unit. The ORP for Millstone III was submitted to the NRC on July 2, 1996 and is presently being implemented.
On October 18 1996, the NRC informed Northeast that it will establish a Special Projects Office to oversee inspection and licensing activities at Millstone. The Special Projects Office will be responsible for (1) licensing and inspection activities at Northeast's Connecticut plants, (2) oversight of an independent corrective action verification program; (3) oversight of Northeast's corrective actions related to safety issues involving employee concerns, and (4) inspections necessary to implement NRC oversight of the plants' restart activities.
On October 24, 1996 the NRC issued another order directing that prior to restart of Millstone III, Northeast submit a plan for disposition of safety issues raised by employees and retain an independent third-party to oversee implementation of this plan. This third-party oversight will continue until the situation is corrected. There is no estimate of how long this will take.
Northeast Management has indicated it cannot presently estimate the effect these efforts will have on the timing of restarts or what additional costs, if any, these developments may cause.
While Millstone III is out of service, Montaup will incur incremental replacement power costs estimated at $0.4 million to $0.8 million per month. Montaup bills its replacement power costs through its fuel adjustment clause, a wholesale tariff jurisdictional to the FERC. However, there is no comparable clause in Montaup's FERC-approved rates which at this time would permit Montaup to recover its share of the incremental operation and maintenance costs incurred by Northeast.
EUA cannot predict the ultimate outcome of the NRC inquiries or the impact which they may have on Montaup and the EUA system. Montaup is also evaluating its rights and obligations under the various agreements relating to the ownership and operation of Millstone III.
Maine Yankee
On June 7, 1996, the NRC commissioned an independent Safety Assessment Team to assess the conformance of the Maine Yankee Atomic Power Station to its design and licensing basis. Montaup holds a 4.0% ownership interest in the Maine Yankee Unit.
On October 7, 1996, the NRC released an Independent Safety Assessment (ISA) report. In evaluating the Plant's conformance to its licensing basis, the report concluded that Maine Yankee was in general conformance with its licensing basis although significant items of nonconformance were identified stemming from two closely related root causes: (1) economic pressure to be a low-cost energy provider had limited available resources to address corrective actions and some improvements and (2) a questioning culture was lacking, which had resulted in a failure to identify or promptly correct significant problems in areas perceived by Maine Yankee to be of low safety significance.
A letter to Maine Yankee from the Chair of the NRC, accompanying the ISA report directed Maine Yankee to provide to the NRC its plans for addressing the root causes of the deficiencies identified by the ISA.
In December, 1996 the unit was shut down for inspections and repairs to resolve cable-separation and associated issues. While the plant has been out of service, Maine Yankee, having previously detected indications of minor leakage in a small number of the plant's 38,000 fuel rods, used the opportunity to inspect the Plant's 217 fuel assemblies. As a result of the inspection, Maine Yankee determined that several fuel assemblies that contained leaking rods should be replaced and has commenced that process. On January 29, 1997 the NRC announced that it had placed the unit on its "watch list." The operator expects the Plant to remain out of service until the fuel-assembly replacement and a thorough inspection of the Plant's electrical cabling are completed and associated issues resolved, and restarting the Plant is approved by the NRC. The operator cannot now predict how long it will take to complete those processes.
In February 1997, Maine Yankee and Entergy Nuclear, Inc. signed a contract for Entergy to provide management services including plant operations at the Maine Yankee plant through September 1997. Maine Yankee and Entergy have been discussing the possibilities of a longer term contract.
General
Recent actions by the NRC, some of which are cited above, indicate that the NRC has become more critical and active in its oversight of nuclear power plants.
EUA is unable to predict at this time, what, if any, ramifications these NRC actions will have on any of the other nuclear power plants in which Montaup has an ownership interest or power contract.
Public Utility Regulation
Eastern Edison and Montaup are subject to regulation by the MDPU with respect to the issuance of securities, the form of accounts, and in the case of Eastern Edison, rates to be charged, services to be provided, and other matters. Blackstone and Newport are subject to regulation in numerous respects by the RIPUC and the RIDPUC, including matters pertaining to financing, sales and transfers of utility properties, accounting, rates and service. In addition, by reason of its ownership of fractional interests in certain facilities located in other states, Montaup is subject to limited regulation in those states. See Electric Utility Industry Restructuring.
IPPs, including OSP in which EUA Ocean State has a 29.9% ownership interest, do not benefit from the PURPA exemptions and are subject to FERC regulation under the Federal Power Act as well as various other federal, state and local regulations.
The EUA System is subject to the jurisdiction of the SEC under the 1935 Act by virtue of which the SEC has certain powers of regulation, including jurisdiction over the issuance of securities, changes in the terms of outstanding securities, acquisition or sale of securities or utility assets or other interests in any business, intercompany loans and other intercompany transactions, payment of dividends under certain circumstances, and related matters. Eastern Edison is a holding company under the 1935 Act by reason of its ownership of securities of Montaup. As a subsidiary of EUA, a registered holding Company, Eastern Edison is exempted from registering as a holding company by complying with the applicable rules thereunder.
The Retail Subsidiaries and Montaup are also subject to the jurisdiction of FERC under Parts II and III of the Federal Power Act. That jurisdiction includes, among other things, rates for sales for resale, interconnection of certain facilities, accounts, service, and property records.
The MDPU and RIPUC have approved a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) between Eastern Edison, Blackstone, Newport and Montaup. The MOU establishes a framework for a coordinated, regional review of the resource planning and procurement process of those companies. It is based on the assumption that resource planning and procurement by a regional electric company may be implemented more effectively under a coordinated, consensual review process involving the EUA retail companies and the state public utility commissions to which the EUA retail companies are subject. Pursuant to the terms of the MOU, at least every two years Montaup and Eastern Edison will file with the MDPU and Blackstone and Newport will file with the RIPUC an integrated resource plan concurrently. The MOU outlines a mechanism and a timetable by which the reviews by the two commissions will be coordinated and any inconsistencies among the decisions by the state commissions will be resolved.
In conjunction with its approval of the MOU, the MDPU granted Eastern Edison and Montaup an exemption from the MDPU's Integrated Resource Management regulations, but required them to plan, solicit and procure additional resources according to newly promulgated regional Integrated Regional Planning procedures consistent with the MOU. The Integrated Resource Management Plan of Blackstone and Newport meet the criteria of the RIPUC.
Implementation of the MOU is not expected to have a material effect on the EUA System. The move to restructure the industry to a more competitive model may, however, impact the role of the states in reviewing utilities' resource planning and procurement activities. Massachusetts is currently reviewing the need for its review of load forecasting and resource planning, recognizing that resource procurement is now a competitive function. As competition becomes more prevalent in the electric industry, it is anticipated that regulatory review will decrease accordingly.
See Rates with respect to regulation of rates charged to customers. See Environmental Regulation. See Fuel for Generation with respect to the disposal of spent nuclear fuel. See Environmental Regulation of Nuclear Power and see Nuclear Power Issues with respect to regulation of nuclear facilities by the NRC. See also Electric Utility Industry Restructuring.
Rates
Rates charged by Montaup (which sells power only for resale) are subject to the jurisdiction of FERC. The rates for services rendered by the Retail Subsidiaries for the most part are subject to approval by and are on file with the MDPU in the case of Eastern Edison and with the RIPUC in the case of Blackstone and Newport. For the 12 months ended December 31, 1996, 62% of EUA's consolidated revenues were subject to the jurisdiction of FERC, 15% to that of the MDPU and 12% to that of the RIPUC. The remaining 11% of consolidated revenues are not subject to jurisdiction of utility commissions. For the twelve months ended December 31, 1996, 80.6% of Eastern Edison's consolidated revenues were subject to the jurisdiction of the FERC and 19.4% to MDPU. Additionally, rates charged by OSP are subject to the jurisdiction of FERC. All OSP (Unit 1 and Unit 2) power contracts have been approved by FERC. However, pursuant to the OSP unit power agreements, rate supplements are required to be filed annually subject to FERC approval. This process may result in rate increases or decreases to OSP power purchasers.
Recent general rate increases (reduction) for Montaup and the Retail Subsidiaries are as follows (In Thousands):
FERC Proceedings:
On May 21, 1994 Montaup filed a rate application with FERC to reduce annual revenues by $10.1 million. This request was intended to match more closely Montaup's revenues with its decreasing cost of doing business resulting from, among other things, a reduced rate base, lower capital costs and successful cost control efforts. The application also included a request for recovery of all of Montaup's FAS106 expenses as provided in FERC's generic order of December 1992, including a five-year amortization of previously deferred FAS106 costs. Also incorporated in this filing was a request to make Newport an all requirements customer of Montaup. Settlement agreements were certified by FERC with all intervenors with an annual base rate reduction of approximately $14 million annually, (inclusive of the filed $10.1 million reduction) effective as of August 1994.
On February 20, 1996, Montaup filed an application with FERC for network and point-to-point transmission service tariffs. FERC required this tariff application before granting a concurrent application of Duke/Louis Dreyfus Energy Services (New England) L.L.C. for permission to charge market based rates.
On July 9, 1996 Montaup refiled the application to conform with FERC open access terms and conditions. On January 21, 1997 the application was refiled to conform with the NEPOOL open access tariff. FERC has not yet acted upon the filings.
Massachusetts Proceedings:
The MDPU has put all companies on notice that it expects them..."to consider mergers or acquisitions in order to further optimize least-cost planning efforts and better fulfill their obligations to serve." Thereafter, the MDPU instituted an investigation, which was concluded on August 3, 1994, for the purpose of establishing, among other things, guidelines and standards for acquisitions and mergers of utilities and evaluating proposals regarding the recovery of costs associated with such activities. It is not possible to predict what effects, if any, the MDPU proceeding will have on the EUA System.
In December 1994, the MDPU approved a request made by Eastern Edison to recover through a reconciling adjustment factor a portion of "lost base revenues." Lost base revenue represents amounts the company would have collected if it had not offered demand-side management and conservation and load management programs to its customers.
On September 20, 1994, the MDPU issued a notice of inquiry and order seeking comments on incentive regulation (MDPU 94-58). The inquiry was to focus on incentive regulation, sometimes referred to as performanced-based regulation, to replace in whole or in part its existing cost-of-service/rate- of-return regulatory framework. Comments were filed by Eastern Edison and other interested persons. On February 24, 1995, the MDPU issued an order relating to implementation of incentive regulation. In the order, the MDPU strongly encouraged all jurisdictional electric utilities to devise and propose incentive plans. The objective of incentive regulation is to "provide market- place benefits to consumers through (1) more efficient utility operations, (2) stronger utility incentives for better cost control, and (3) enhanced opportunities for lower rates." While no timetable was specified, the MDPU stated the largest utilities should commence the incentive plan design process as soon as possible. EUA cannot predict what effect, if any, the MDPU's order will have on the EUA System. However, Eastern Edison's December 23, 1996 settlement agreement with Massachusetts Department of Energy Resources and that State's Attorney General, expected to be formally submitted to the MDPU in March 1997, contains performance based regulation standards. (See Electric Utility Industry Restructuring under "Massachusetts Restructuring Settlement" above).
On February 10, 1995, the MDPU issued a notice of inquiry and order on electric industry restructuring (MDPU 95-30). The investigation was established to determine: (1) how a restructuring of the Massachusetts electric industry would promote competition and economic efficiency while expanding opportunities that would benefit consumers, (2) whether and how to extend to customers the option of choosing their own electric suppliers; (3) how such a restructuring could be implemented; and (4) the appropriate regulatory mechanisms to apply to a restructured electric industry.
After initial and second round comments were received, the MDPU held hearings and issued its order on August 16, 1995. The order facilitates increased competition by requiring investor-owned electric utilities to unbundle their rates, provide consumers with accurate price signals, and enable customer choice that allows consumers to purchase generation services separately from transmission and distribution services. The order provides for the recovery of net, non-mitigatable stranded costs that will result from the transition from a regulated to a competitive industry structure.
The order sets forth the MDPU's overall goals for a restructured industry, the essential characteristics of a restructured industry, as well as principles to be considered in the transition to a restructured industry. Given the complexity of the issues, the MDPU supported the multiple requests from reviewers for a period during which participants can negotiate settlements. The MDPU stated that consensus and settlements are more likely than litigation to advance the restructuring process, and directed each company to undertake negotiations with all interested participants to develop a plan for moving toward competition in generation and retail customer choice, to decide the amount and develop a mechanism for stranded cost recovery, and establish unbundled rates. A collaborative group representing the full spectrum of MDPU 95-30 participants has been meeting in Massachusetts to discuss these issues. The MDPU noted that while the concepts of competition and customer choice are fundamental to restructuring, and the basic principles will apply to all restructuring proposals, specific company corporate structures, service territories, rate structures and stranded costs may require individual consideration.
The MDPU established a specific schedule for restructuring proposals. Massachusetts Electric Company, Boston Edison Company, and Western Massachusetts Electric Company were required to file their settlements and proposals by February 16, 1996. The remaining electric utilities are required to file their settlements and proposals within three months of the issuance of MDPU orders related to the restructuring proposals of the former three companies. Companies are required to file the following information: (1) a plan for moving from the current regulated industry structure to a competitive generation market and to increased customer choice; (2) illustrative rates and supporting information that indicate unbundled charges for generation, distribution, transmission, and ancillary services; (3) an identifiable charge reflective of the level of stranded costs to be recovered with all necessary supporting information; and (4) a plan for incentive regulation in the transmission and distribution systems. Eastern Edison filed its restructuring plan on February 16, 1996 which was assigned MDPU Docket No. 96-24. A public hearing was held on March 6, 1996. See Electric Utility Industry Restructuring under "Massachusetts Restructuring Settlement" for a discussion of the December 23, 1996 settlement among Eastern Edison, Montaup, Massachusetts Department of Energy Resources and the Massachusetts Attorney General. A formal settlement plan under Docket No. 96-24 is expected to be filed with the MDPU in March 1997.
On December 30, 1996 the MDPU issued its Model Rules in Docket # 96-100, the second phase of its investigation of the restructuring of the electric utility industry in Massachusetts and proposed legislation for consideration by the Massachusetts Legislature that would provide the MDPU with the mandate to implement these rules. The MDPU has indicated that its overall goal is to develop an efficient industry structure and regulatory framework that minimizes costs to consumers while maintaining safe and reliable electric service with minimum impact on the environment. Consistent with the overall goal, the Model Rules provide for, among other things:
- customer choice of electricity supplier with local distribution companies guaranteeing default service including continuation of low income protections and discounts;
- independent central regional transmission system operator;
- non-discriminatory open access transmission;
- functional separation of distribution, generation and transmission;
- distribution services remain a regulated monopoly;
- commitment to significant environmental improvement;
- funding mechanism to provide financial support for renewable and emerging technologies and continuation of demand-side management programs;
- reasonable opportunity for recovery of stranded costs; and
- standards of conduct for distribution companies and their competitive affiliates.
While Eastern Edison believes that its December 23, 1996 agreement with the Attorney General and the Division of Energy Resources is consistent with the requirements of these Model Rules, it is of the opinion that the MDPU has the authority to approve the agreement without the need of additional legislation or officially promulgating these Model Rules. See Electric Utility Industry Restructuring, under "Massachusetts Restructuring Settlement," with respect to settlement negotiations.
Rhode Island Proceedings:
On April 7, 1992, the RIPUC initiated generic Docket No. 2045 pertaining to the FAS106 issue for all Rhode Island utility companies. On June 26, 1992, Newport and Blackstone filed proposed rate increases to reflect the impact of FAS106 of approximately $1.3 million and $2.7 million, respectively. An order was issued on December 11, 1992 granting recovery of a tax deductible amount of FAS106 phased into rates over a three-year period with the initial one-third to be recovered no earlier than the first fiscal year beginning after December 15, 1992, and the deferrals of the first two years recovered in rates over the seven-year period following the three-year phase-in. On December 21, 1992, Newport and Blackstone filed compliance rates representing phase one of the three-year phase-in. The Phase I revenue requirement, representing one third of the incremental FAS106 tax deductible amount for Blackstone and Newport was calculated to be $353,000 and $417,000, respectively. Phase II compliance was filed November 1, 1993. The revenue requirement, representing two thirds of the incremental FAS106 tax deductible expense for Blackstone and Newport was calculated to be $706,000 and $834,000, respectively. Phase III compliance was filed November 1, 1994. The revenue requirement, representing the full phase- in of the incremental FAS106 tax deductible expense for Blackstone and Newport were calculated to be $1,059,000 and $1,251,000, respectively. Phase IV compliance was filed on October 23, 1995, recovering deferred amounts over 7 years, 14.3% each year starting January 1, 1996. The RIPUC also ordered that all amounts recovered be placed in trusts permitted by the IRS which will maximize tax deductibility.
Also, on January 14, 1994, the RIPUC issued a written order establishing Docket No. 2167 for a Comprehensive Review of Newport's rate design. A prehearing conference was held on February 8, 1994 at which time a schedule for pre-filing testimony was established.
On May 20, 1994, Newport filed its Cost of Service Study (COSS) analysis of the rates of return by customer class and an alternative rate design proposal. The RIDPUC filed its recommendations with regard to cost allocation and rate design on June 23, 1994. The United States Navy, Newport's largest customer, filed its recommendations on June 24, 1994. On July 29, 1994 the Company filed a Stipulation and Settlement Agreement (SSA) which had been executed by the RIDPUC and TEC-RI. The parties signing the SSA agreed on certain rate class revenue changes. While the settling parties did not agree with the COSS techniques utilized by Newport, they agreed to accept the SSA rather than litigating with respect to what might be deemed appropriate study allocators and techniques. The rate class revenue changes generally reduce, although they do not eliminate, inequities in the class rate of return. Newport agreed to perform a new COSS to be submitted no later than July 1, 1996. At an open meeting on October 28, 1994, the RIPUC found that the SSA is reasonable and in the best interests of the ratepayers. Rates established in compliance with the RIPUC's October 28, 1994 finding, were effective January 1, 1995.
In December 1994, the United States Navy, filed a petition for a writ of certiorari with the Rhode Island Supreme Court to review the RIPUC's decision. A second motion to stay was filed by the Navy on December 21, 1995. On June 28, 1996 Newport filed its 1995 COSS and on July 8, 1996 the U.S. Navy filed a Motion for Expedited Hearing. The RIDPUC took the position that the RIPUC's order in Docket No. 2167 neither required nor set any timetable for additional rate changes. The RIDPUC also indicated that it took no position regarding either the merits of the COSS or the Navy's request for an expedited hearing. The RIDPUC, at the RIPUC's request reviewed the results of the COSS as well as the allocation methodologies employed. Additionally, the RIDPUC explored the propriety of the Navy's request in light of the filing of unbundled rates required to be made effective by the Restructuring Act of 1996. On February 3, 1997 the Navy filed a stipulation to withdraw the writ of certiori it had filed in December 1994.
On June 27, 1994 TEC-RI petitioned the RIDPUC to investigate the propriety of "the current bundled electric rates," and what might be required to transition "... from a fully regulated to a more competitive retail electric industry". A RIDPUC hearing officer was appointed on July 24, 1994 and Docket No. D-94-9 was established. Blackstone and Newport were parties to the proceeding.
Initial and reply comments were submitted to a comprehensive list of issues. Many of the comments addressed a broad restructuring of the electric utility industry. When the parties met on January 9, 1995, they decided that TEC-RI's proposal for a "cooperative collaborative process," including the RIDPUC as a party, rather than a litigated proceeding before the RIDPUC hearing officer, was appropriate. Hence, the Rhode Island Collaborative (Collaborative) was formed.
On May 12, 1995, the Collaborative submitted a Report and Set of Interdependent Principles to the RIPUC. The 17 Interdependent Principles represented the Collaborative's underpinnings for any restructuring proposal. The Collaborative requested that the RIPUC establish a docket and conduct a hearing to explore the settlement principles with a view to issuing an order indicating whether the principles "provide a suitable basis for further detailed negotiation by the parties, or in what respects they require modification" and setting a deadline for the submission of a more detailed proposal for restructuring.
The RIPUC responded to the Collaborative's request by creating Docket No. 2320, taking administrative notice of Docket No. D-94-9, and declaring that all parties to the Division docket would be treated as intervenors in this docket. The RIPUC conducted a technical conference on July 6, 1995 and a Public hearing on July 11, 1995. On July 19, 1995 three of the principles were modified to address concerns expressed by the RIPUC at the technical conference. On July 25, 1995, the Collaborative provided additional information on the principle concerning renewables, and requested that the RIPUC approve the principles in full.
On August 16, 1995, the RIPUC accepted the principles as modified, deleting the principle concerning renewables and adding a principle concerning negotiation. The Collaborative was directed to proceed with negotiations to quantify specific issues involving competition and open access as well as the other issues presented in the principles. A Collaborative Progress Report was filed in February, 1996. Blackstone and Newport have been active participants in the ongoing collaborative meetings. As a result of legislative actions and the passing of the URA, Docket No. 2320 was formally closed and the collaborative was disbanded.
In February 1997 the RIPUC initiated Docket No. 2509 to investigate utility company storm contingency funds. Both Blackstone and Newport are recovering through rates amounts for storm contingencies. A hearing was held on February 28, 1997. Management cannot predict the ultimate outcome of this investigation.
The RIPUC opened Docket No. 2514 to investigate the restructuring plan filed by Blackstone and Newport on December 27, 1996 in compliance with the URA. Hearings are scheduled to be held during April 1997. On February 28, 1997, Blackstone, Newport and Montaup reached settlement with the RIDPUC and the Rhode Island Attorney General with regard to implementation of a restructuring plan for Blackstone, Newport and Montaup. In addition to complying with the URA, the settlement provides for an immediate 10% rate reduction and a commitment by Montaup to file a plan by July 1, 1997 to divest all of its generating assets. Management cannot predict the ultimate outcome of this investigation. See Electric utility Industry Restructuring under "Rhode Island Utility Restructuring Act of 1996" for a discussion of the URA and settlement agreement.
Environmental Regulation
General:
The Retail Subsidiaries and Montaup and other companies owning generating units from which power is obtained are subject, like other electric utilities, to environmental and land use regulations at the federal, state and local levels. The EPA, and certain state and local authorities, have jurisdiction over releases of pollutants, contaminants and hazardous substances into the environment and have broad authority in connection therewith, including the ability to require installation of pollution control devices and remedial actions. In 1994, an environmental audit program designed to ensure compliance with environmental laws and regulations and to identify and reduce liability was instituted for Montaup and the Retail Subsidiaries.
Federal, Massachusetts and Rhode Island legislation requires consideration of reports evaluating environmental impact of large projects as a prerequisite to the granting of various permits and licenses with a view of limiting such impact. Federal, Massachusetts and Rhode Island air quality regulations also require that plans for construction or modification of fossil fuel generating facilities (including procedures for operation and maintenance) receive prior approval from the MADEP or RIDEM. In addition, in Massachusetts, certain electric generation and transmission facilities will be permitted to be built only if they are consistent with a long-range forecast filed by the utility concerned and approved by the Massachusetts Energy Facilities Siting Council. In Rhode Island, siting, construction and modification of major electric generating and transmission facilities must be approved by the Rhode Island Energy Facility Siting Board.
Generating facilities in which Montaup and Newport have an interest, and are required to pay a share of the costs, are also subject, like other electric utilities, to regulation with regard to zoning, land use, and similar controls by various state and local authorities.
The EPA and state and local authorities may, after appropriate proceedings, require modification of generating facilities for which construction permits or operating licenses have already been issued, or impose new conditions on such permits or licenses, and may require that the operation of a generating unit cease or that its level of operation be temporarily or permanently reduced. Such action may result in increases in capital costs and operating costs which may be substantial, in delays or cancellation of construction of planned facilities, or in modification or termination of operations of existing facilities.
Other activities of the EUA System from time to time are subject to the jurisdiction of various other local, state and federal regulatory agencies. It is not possible to predict with certainty what effects the above described statutes and regulations will have on the EUA System.
The EPA has issued regulations relating to the generation, transportation, storage and disposal of certain wastes under RCRA; in Massachusetts, the requirements are implemented and enforced by the MADEP, whereas in Rhode Island, RIDEM implements and enforces its own regulations under a state statute comparable to RCRA as well as pursuant to EPA authorization.
There is an extensive body of federal and state statutes governing environmental matters, including CERCLA, as amended by the Superfund Amendments and Reauthorization Act of 1986; in Massachusetts, Chapter 21E, and, in Rhode Island, the "Industrial Property Site Remediation and Reuse Act" (Brownfields Legislation) which permit, among other things, federal and state authorities to initiate legal action providing for liability, compensation, cleanup, and emergency response to the release or threatened release of hazardous substances into the environment and for the cleanup of inactive hazardous waste disposal sites which constitute substantial hazards. Under CERCLA, Chapter 21E, and the Rhode Island Brownfields Legislation, joint and several liability for cleanup costs may be imposed on, among others, the owners or operators of a facility where hazardous substances were disposed, the party who generated the substances, or any party who arranged for the disposition or transport of the substances. Due to the nature of the business of EUA's utility subsidiaries, certain materials are generated that may be classified as hazardous under CERCLA, Chapter 21E and Brownfields Legislation. As a rule, the subsidiaries employ licensed contractors to dispose of such materials. See Item 3.