ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
Our Offices
Our executive staff offices from corporate offices at Hochwachtstrasse 4, Steinhausen, CH 6312 which are our principal offices. The offices are provided by our controlling shareholder, Zentrum Energie Trust A.G. free of charge. Our telephone number is (41) 79- 237-6218.
Oil and Gas Properties
GLOSSARY OF TERMS
Terms used to describe our interests
“Developed acreage” means acreage which consists of leased acres spaced or assignable to productive wells.
“Development well” is a well drilled within the proved area of an oil or gas reservoir to the depth or stratigraphic horizon (rock layer or formation) noted to be productive for the purpose of extracting reserves.
“Dry hole” is an exploratory or development well found to be incapable of producing either oil or gas in sufficient quantities to justify completion.
“Exploratory well” is a well drilled to find and produce oil or gas in an unproved area, to find a new reservoir in a field previously found to be producing in another reservoir, or to extend a known reservoir.
“Gross acres” are the number of acres in which we own a working interest.
“Net acres” are the sum of fractional ownership working interests in gross acres (e.g., a 50% working interest in a lease covering 320 gross acres is equivalent to 160 net acres).
“Net well” is the sum of fractional ownership working interests in gross wells.
“Productive well” is an exploratory or a development well that is not a dry hole.
“Delineation test well or stratigraphic test well” drilled for purposes of obtaining core data and subsequently abandoned, and surface immediately reclaimed.
“Undeveloped acreage” means those leased acres on which wells have not been drilled or completed to a point that would permit the production of economic quantities of oil and gas, regardless of whether or not such acreage contains proved reserves.
Our Properties
We do not currently have title to any oil and gas properties, however, we hold an interest in an oil and gas company that holds oil and gas leases and we have a mineral rights agreement to acquire certain oil and gas leases as detailed below.
CEC North Star Properties
Land
We are a 30.56% shareholder in North Star. North Star has 73 sections comprised of 46,720 acres of oilsands leases in the Manning area of northwestern Alberta. We hold an indirect interest in this project by virtue of our ownership in North Star.
The following maps depict the North Star lands as located in the Province of Alberta and the North Star lands in relation to their locations in the township, as well as locations of both test wells and producing wells:
Table of Mineral Rights Held by CEC North Star Energy Ltd.
Reserves Reported to Other Agencies
We do not currently have any proved net oil or gas reserves. It is anticipated that within 6 to 9 months reserve reports can be commissioned for those wells which have been brought online and have maintained consistent production.
Production
We do not currently have any oil and gas production.
Productive Wells and Acreage
We do not currently have any oil or gas productive wells or developed acreage.
Undeveloped Acreage
North Star has 73 sections comprising 46,720 undeveloped net and gross acres of oilsands leases located in the sections, ranges and townships in the Manning area of northwestern Alberta as detailed able under Table of Mineral Rights Held. All oilsands leases have primary terms of 15 years. The current North Star leases have remaining primary terms between 10 to 14 years. A total of 1,280 acres expire on October 1, 2023, 23,040 acres expire on April 1, 2026, 12,160 acres expire on July 1, 2026, 3,840 acres expire on January 9, 2028 and the remaining acreage expires on August 1, 2028.
Once placed into production, the leases can be extended indefinitely or until deemed non-commercial and then the surface is reclaimed and mineral rights returned to the Crown.
Geology
Introduction
The exploration and attempted development of heavy oil in carbonate rocks in Alberta, Canada has been focused on Devonian-aged formations (particularly the Grosmont Formation). Laracina and OSUM, Shell, Husky, Sunshine, Athabasca and others have targeted the Grosmont Formation in the Athabasca region of Alberta.
There is now information in the form of public domain geological and engineering papers and government publications related to the potential of this heavy oil zone. The oil is extra heavy (API gravity range of 5 to 9 degrees), and the reservoir rocks are highly heterogeneous, consisting of fractured dolomites, low permeability dolomites and high porosity dolomites (termed “dolofudge”). The bitumen is commonly trapped at the Grosmont D and C erosional edges, commonly referred to as the “sweet spot.” Methods of bitumen extraction all involve secondary methods, such as steam, fire flooding and solvent. Less information exists about the heavy oil quality (i.e., API gravity and viscosity) and reservoir quality of Mississippian heavy oil carbonates.
Many of the oil and gas pools occur along subcrop or erosional edges also. Because significant subaerial erosion occurred during the late Carboniferous to Permian time, Mississippian rocks are unconformably overlain commonly by Mesozoic strata, such as in the Manning area of northern Alberta.
History of Exploration for Heavy Oil in the Manning Area
The Peace River area heavy oil development has been primarily by production from the Cretaceous Bluesky Formation for 20 years. The major operators in the area include Shell, Baytex, Murphy, PennWest and Koch. Oil is produced by both primary (pumping horizontal wells) and secondary methods (CSS or SAGD schemes). The oil is generally 11 oAPI with viscosity ranging from less than 10,000 centipoise to well over 100,000 centipoise.
The only known primary production of heavy oil from Mississippian carbonates in Alberta is from the fractured Pekisko Formation dolomites at Seal (Figure 1 below). Some of the best producing wells have cumulative oil production of up to approximately 250,000 barrels of oil. The API gravity of the oil is also typically 11 degrees. The wells are completed open hole with or without acid squeezes.
In March 2013, North Star drilled two exploratory delineation wells or stratigraphic test wells (drilled for purposes of obtaining core data and subsequently abandoned, and surface immediately reclaimed) targeting heavy oil in the Elkton Member (11-4-92-23W5) and the Bluesky/Gething Formation (8-12-91-22W5). Cores were obtained from the prospective zones of interest and submitted to AGAT Laboratories for porosity, permeability, oil saturation, and oil viscosity and API oil gravity analyses.
Based on the existing data from the public domain, three heavy oil play types have been identified on North Star lands in the Manning area:
1) Mississippian Elkton Member (Elkton) erosional edge carbonates,
2) Mississippian Debolt Formation (Debolt) erosional edge carbonates, and
3) Cretaceous Bluesky Formation (Bluesky) estuarine valley fill sandstones
During fiscal 2014 North Star completed two production test wells - one horizontal in the Elkton Member (9-4-92-23 W5) - currently suspended and one vertical in the Bluesky/Gething Formation (7-10-91-22 W5M) - subsequently abandoned/reclaimed, as well as a 4 mi sq 3D seismic program. In July 2014 North Star drilled a horizontal production well which has been put on production.
Bluesky Channel (Estuarine Valley Fill) Prospect
The Bluesky Formation is the major producing zone in the Peace River area of northern Alberta. It is a sandstone that was deposited in the Lower Cretaceous within a marginal marine environment. Major operators south of Manning include Shell, Baytex, PennWest, Koch and Murphy. The heavy oil and bitumen-filled sandstones are exploited by primary recovery multi leg horizontal wells and secondary steam methods such as CSS.
In the Manning area, a Bluesky deposit was identified by a combination of geological and seismic evaluation. Comparison of selected well logs from the south to the north Peace River Bluesky suggests petrophysical similarities, indicating potential for good porosity and heavy oil presence.
Oil Trapping and Seismic Evaluation
Heavy oil trapping in the Bluesky Formation is different than in the Elkton and Debolt. Oil is trapped statigraphically in porous sandstones with lateral and vertical seals (i.e., Wilrich shales) created by variations in lithology such as sandstones grading into sandy shales. Seismic evaluation is particularly instrumental in determining thick channel deposits such as those discovered south of Manning. Such channel deposits are characteristically 1.5 to 3 kilometers wide, trending in a north-south direction.
CEC Deadwood 8-12-91-22W5
This Bluesky test was drilled in March 2013 based on a positive seismic signature that suggested a deep valley fill cut and therefore a thick sandstone deposit. Forty-two meters of core were recovered over the Wilrich shales (caprock) and the Bluesky and underlying Shunda zone (bottom seal). The core was sent to AGAT Laboratories for porosity, permeability, oil saturation, and oil viscosity and oil API gravity analysis. The main goal of the drilled well was to determine the presence of oil, oil quality and where to subsequently shoot a 3-D seismic program should the well be considered successful.
Well Logging
The well was logged by Baker Hughes after the well was drilled and cored. Resistivity (induction), SP (spontaneous potential), sonic, neutron-density, Pe, gamma ray and caliper logs were run from surface casing to depth. Identified were the glauconitic sandstone between 424 to 427.5 m, the shaley, bioturbated sandstone and sandy shale zone between 427.5 to 443.5 m and the thick sandstone (may be Gething) between 443.5 to approximately 470 m.
An oil-water contact is indicated at approximately at 449.5 m (or 451.50 m in core). A sample for oil analysis was taken at approximately 445 m (447.44-447.68 m in core).
Core Description and Core Analysis
Core descriptions by AGAT Laboratories show that the overlying Wilrich shales are grey to earthy grey with fine, disseminated pyrite and traces of carbonaceous material and glauconite. The upper Bluesky interval consists of medium to dark brown oil-stained sandstone with excellent intergranular porosity, even to spotty brown oil staining and dull yellow to orange fluorescence. The middle Bluesky interval consists of both sandstone and shale with banded to spotty oil staining throughout, variably laminated and bioturbated with pyrite, carbonaceous material and occasional glauconite. The lower zone consists of dark brown oil-stained sandstone with excellent intergranular porosity, grading to spotty oil stain with depth.
A permeability-porosity crossplot shows that the Bluesky Formation at 8-12-91-22W5 has very good to excellent porosity, ranging from 25% to 35%, and good to excellent permeability ranging up to approximately 3 darcies.
Oil Saturation and Oil Quality
AGAT Core analysis of the upper Bluesky interval shows oil saturations ranging from 60% to 76% and bulk mass oil fractions from 0.073 to 0.131 which is very typical for producing Bluesky sandstones in the south.
AGAT Core analysis of the lower Bluesky interval shows oil saturations ranging from 55% to 79% in the oil zone, grading down to 27.5% in the water zone. Bulk mass oil fractions range from 0.074 to 0.119.
Only one sample was successfully analyzed for oil viscosity and API gravity. It was at 447.44-447.68 m in the lower Bluesky interval, approximately 23 m from the top. The results are indicating an API gravity of 10.73 degrees and a viscosity of 49,846 centipoise at 20 degrees Celsius.
The oil viscosity determined from the analysis of one sample from the 8-12-91-22W5 well indicates that is on the cusp of primary production. The upper Bluesky oil (23 m above) is likely lighter, but more work is required to determine its primary production potential. Furthermore, a 3-D seismic program is required to delineate the thick Bluesky channel sandstone geometry just north of the subject well.
Elkton Erosional Edge
Oil has been trapped up dip at the Elkton erosional edge where the Elkton Member (and also the Debolt Formation) is unconformably overlain by impermeable Wilrich Member shales (part of the Spirit River Formation) and thin Bluesky sandstones (see Figure 3 below, NE to SW cross-section). As indicated above, this is a common feature shown by Mississippian-aged, conventional oil and gas fields in Alberta.
Oil Trapping, Mapping Parameters and Seismic Evaluation
Similar oil pay cutoffs that have been used for the Grosmont heavy oil play were applied to well logs to delineate Elkton (and Debolt) pay. These cutoffs are 18% porosity and 100 ohm-meters resistivity and correlate well for mapping purposes to define the potential Elkton oil pool at Manning.
“Because Mississippian reservoirs are primarily associated with the subcrop, they are often difficult seismic targets. The target is frequently a structure, but the many different lithologies of the overlying beds can either mask or exaggerate the identification of the unconformity” (Reimer, D.A., 1989).
Seismic evaluation of three 2D lines purchased recently (i.e., trade seismic data) demonstrates the thinning of the Elkton near the mapped erosional edge. The geology of the Mississippian formations is relatively flat and continuous, and therefore reasonably predictable.
Regional Geology and Depositional Setting
At Manning, the Elkton occurs between approximately 420 to 470 m, a common depth for both primary and secondary heavy oil production in Alberta (e.g., Lloydminster, Cold Lake and Pelican Lake).
A petrographic study completed by AGAT Laboratories in December 2012 showed that the rock is a peloidal fossiliferous, high energy grainstones to packstone (limestone) with 20% visible (i.e., effective) porosity as interparticle, intraparticle and intercrystalline pores. Such limestones are common exploration targets because of their excellently preserved porosity and permeability. To produce such petrographic images, a cleaned core sample is mounted on a glass slide and then ground down to 30 microns in thickness where it can then transmit light for microscopic examination.
CEC Deadwood 11-4-92-23W5
The discovery well for the Elkton oil pool at Manning was drilled in March 2013 by North Star. Drilling and coring were completed in five days. The core was sent to AGAT Laboratories for porosity, permeability, oil saturation, oil viscosity and oil API gravity analysis. This well was the first ever drilled in Manning to test the heavy oil potential of the Elkton erosional edge play.
Well Logging
The well was logged by Baker Hughes after the well was drilled and cored. Resistivity (induction), SP (spontaneous potential), sonic, neutron-density, Pe, gamma ray and caliper logs were run from surface casing to depth. Neutron-density porosity ranges up to 30% and resistivity ranges as high as 400 ohm-meters. The suggested lithology is limestone with some chert and clay defining the Middle Elkton.
Core Description and Core Analysis
The AGAT report has figures representing the Upper, Middle and Lower Elkton core. The oil is very black, typical of heavy oil from the Peace River heavy oil deposits. Live black oil can be observed on the surfaces of the core sections. Also in places the occurrence of bubbles extruding from the oil. The whitish parts of the core represent chert or siliceous replacement and occasional vug filling.
The AGAT core descriptions indicate excellent pinpoint vuggy and intercrystalline porosity, even dark brown oil stain throughout and rare fractures. Of importance are the 3.1 m of lost core at the top where the highest permeability is recorded.
Thirteen core plug samples (drilled plugs measuring 25.4 mm in diameter) were selected for analysis. Traditional full diameter core analysis (measuring the full core pieces) was deemed impossible because of friability of the rock and very high oil saturation. In other words, should the large core pieces be subjected to cleaning by toluene, the experienced AGAT personnel believed that they would fall apart and be unusable for analysis. Therefore, it was decided that small diameter core plugs would be taken, put in Teflon sleeves, cleaned and then analyzed at a simulated overburden pressure of 1000 psi.
The AGAT report shows the porosity-permeability crossplot, indicating the highest permeability in the Upper Elkton corresponding to relatively coarse grained grainstones. Both the Middle and Lower Elkton units have lower permeability, corresponding to finer grained packstones. Of note is the very high, measured porosity between 27% and 33%.
Thin Section Petrography
The AGAT report further shows thin section photomicrographs of representative samples from the Upper, Middle and Lower Elkton. The reddish or pinkish color is a dye used to distinguish limestone from dolomite. The Upper Elkton consists of highly permeable and porous, peloidal bioclastic (fossiliferous) lime grainstones. Porosity (blue) occurs as interparticle, intraparticle (within grains as in Plate 3D), vuggy and intercrystalline pores. Many of the carbonate grains are recrystallized calcite, consisting of a typical Mississippian assemblage of bryozoans, forams, pelecypods, echinoids, corals and brachiopods.
The Middle Elkton consists of cherty, argillaceous lime packstones that are finer grained than the grainstones and have good porosity with a higher percentage of smaller pores. The clay and chert content in the Middle Elkton, likely occurring because of local depositional exposure, are responsible for the higher gamma ray and lower resistivity on well logs.
The Lower Elkton consists of bioclastic peloidal packstones with good porosity with occasional dolomite rhombs. Porosity consists of smaller-sized pores than in the grainstones, found within carbonate grains (intraparticle porosity) and between grains (interparticle porosity).
Oil Saturation and Oil Quality
Core analysis indicates that the Elkton has very high oil saturations between 70% and 85%, averaging approximately 78%. Bulk mass oil fractions range between 0.08 and 0.12, which are commonly observed for productive heavy oil reservoirs. The ubiquitous black color in core and the high porosity and resistivity observed in well logs support the abundant oil reported from core analysis.
Oil was extracted from core by centrifuge to obtain both viscosity and API oil gravity analysis. Analysis of a sample from the Upper Elkton shows a viscosity (at 20 degrees Celsius) of 9,335 centipoise and an API oil gravity of 14.49 degrees. Middle and Lower Elkton oil analyses show viscosities of 13,088 and 19,360 centipoise and API oil gravity of 13.62 and 13.07degrees respectively.
The results are shown in the AGAT report. These oil analyses suggest that the Elkton can be produced by primary methods. Vertical oil viscosity segregation within the Elkton is not as variable as in the Bluesky oil reservoirs south of Manning.
Debolt Erosional Edge
The Debolt Formation in the Manning area can be subdivided into Debolt A, Debolt B and Debolt C. Outside the Manning area, another unit, the Debolt D, adds to the overall thickness of the Debolt of approximately 90 m. The Debolt A unit overlies the Elkton Member, separated by an 8 to 13 m thick, relatively impermeable shaley carbonate to shale interval.
Previous operators have drilled wells in the Debolt Formation, testing its heavy oil potential..
Oil Trapping, Mapping Parameters and Seismic Evaluation
A cross-section that was shown previously (Figure 4) demonstrates the trapping mechanism of heavy oil in the Debolt at Manning. The up dip edge conforms to a zero isopach thickness where the Debolt A is eroded off, while the down dip zero edge reflects decreasing oil saturation.
The net pay area of the Debolt is smaller than the Elkton’s, and the structure is slightly lower (more down dip), perhaps suggesting that the oil quality may be slightly lower than the Elkton oil.
As indicated above, seismic modelling of the erosional edge at Manning completed by North Star suggests that the Debolt A can be mapped quite accurately, thereby aiding in optimal well placement and reserve area definition. The beneficial, preliminary use of older trade seismic indicates that a future 3-D seismic shoot would greatly benefit any full-scale field development.
Regional Geology and Depositional Setting
The Debolt Formation thickens to the south and west of Manning and ranges in depth from approximately 425 m at Manning to over 650 m west. The Debolt was deposited in a shoaling upward environment, but displays more horizontal laminations than the Elkton, suggesting deposition in a somewhat lower energy environment.
A petrographic study completed by AGAT in December 2012 on drill cuttings from previously drilled wells showed that the Debolt consists of slightly dolomitic, peloidal, bioclastic wackestones to packstones with variable vuggy and intercrystalline porosity. It’s encouraging to note that larger vugs (blue) occur at the drill cutting scale and that the vials containing the cuttings all smelled of hydrocarbon.
Drilling Activities
Two net wells have been drilled on the Manning Project during the Company’s fiscal year ended June 30, 2014. In September 2013 one horizontal well (9-4-92-23 W5) was licensed and drilled as a production test well for purposes of defining drilling and completion technology for the Elkton as this was the first horizontal well in this zone in the area. The well was put on test using temporary equipment until cold weather made operations difficult. The well is currently suspended. Several methods of production and completion/stimulations were tested. Subsequent to that work core was provided to Perm Inc for extensive simulation work using hot water and solvent drives. A second vertical test well (7-10-91-22 W5M) was drilled on the Bluesky channel previously identified using seismic and offset well logs. The well was drilled and completed to two bluesky zones. The well was put on test using temporary rental equipment and produced for about 6 weeks before the well sanded off. Core, gas, oil and water samples were sent to AGAT for analysis. The well was subsequently abandoned in July 2014 and the lease reclaimed. The well was drilled as a proof of concept testing the mobility of the oil/sand in the Bluesky Channels.
Present and Planned Activities
North Star has drilled its first primary production well 14-23-91-22 W5M on the Bluesky project as detailed above. The proposed activity plan for the next twelve months is expected to evolve from the initial well which was recently drilled. The North Star development strategy consists of conventional technologies based on primary recovery, initially using single vertical wells with single 1000+-meter horizontal wells at typically 160-meter spacing and an installed electric/hydraulic drive at surface with downhole progressive cavity pumps. Subsequent stages are expected to [soon?] use single vertical wells with 5 to 10 horizontal legs and single pumps to minimize capital and maximize recovery. Rental tanks and associated equipment will be used until the Central Processing Facility is built. Infill drilling will be executed to bring spacing down to typically 80 meters and increase incremental production based on 3D seismic. Licensing has started on the subsequent drilling programs. The Elkton Erosional Edge is expected to be developed using EOR technologies. An additional core will be taken fall 2014, which will be provided to Weatherford for extensive simulations to identify the two best development models. Those models will be tested in field tests in the second quarter of 2015 and a pilot application submitted to the regulator as soon as possible afterwards.
Delivery Commitments
We do not currently have any delivery commitments.
Trout Lake Property:
On January 22, 2013, the Company entered into an acquisition of mineral rights agreement to acquire the Mineral Rights known as the Trout Properties. The Trout Properties consists of 4 contiguous sections of P&NG leases. In February 2014 the terms of the mineral rights agreement were amended under mutual agreement with Zentrum so that the terms to earn a 50% interest in the Trout Lake Property are as follows:
·
Octagon and Zentrum will enter into a formal Farm-out and Operating Agreement;
·
Octagon will have the right to earn a fifty percent (50%) working interest in the Trout Properties;
·
A 3% Royalty of Gross Monthly Production to be paid to Zentrum;
·
Octagon will pay fifty percent (50%) of the drilling and completion costs of the first production well to be drilled on the Trout Properties at such location as may be agreed between the parties (the "Well");
·
Within six months of the successful completion and production of the Well, Octagon will pay to Zentrum a cash payment in the amount of$1,250,000.
Reserves Reported to Other Agencies
We do not currently have any proved net oil or gas reserves.
Production
We do not currently have any oil and gas production.
Productive Wells and Acreage
We do not currently have any oil or gas productive wells or developed acreage.
Undeveloped Acreage
We hold a total of 2,560 gross and net undeveloped acres under the following leases.
Legal Description
Title Document
Expiry
Pre Farm-out Working Interest
Encumbrances
Sec 4-89-3 W5M All Petroleum and Natural Gas
Alberta PNG 0511080381
Dated August 25, 2011
August 25, 2016
100%
Crown S/S Lessor
GORR 8% BPO;
3% APO
Sec 5-89-3 W5M All Petroleum and Natural Gas
Alberta PNG 0511080382
Dated August 25, 2011
August 25, 2016
100%
Crown S/S Lessor
GORR 8% BPO;
3% APO
Sec 6-89-3 W5M All Petroleum and Natural Gas
Alberta PNG 0511080383
Dated August 25, 2011
August 25, 2016
100%
Crown S/S Lessor
GORR 8% BPO;
3% APO
Sec 9-89-3 W5M All Petroleum and Natural Gas
Alberta PNG 0510070305
Dated July 8, 2010
July 8, 2015
100%
Crown S/S Lessor
GORR 8% BPO;
3% APO
Drilling Activities
There has been no drilling activity undertaken on these leases however an AFE for the proposed drilling of an initial well at 7-989-3 W5M has been received from joint venture partners and a drill site prepared.
Present Activities
The Company has received the Farm-out and Operating Agreements for signature and is currently evaluating the project. In order to earn its 50% working interest the Company must participate to proportionate share in the drilling of a well which must be completed no later than April 2015. The cash call in relation to the proposed drilling target totals CDN$998,647 (USD$935,869). In addition, to earn its working interest the Company will be required to pay to Zentrum, within six months of the successful completion and production of the Well, a cash payment in the amount of$1,250,000.
Delivery Commitments
We do not currently have any delivery commitments.
ITEM 3.