ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
Executive and Field Offices
Our headquarters are located at 539 El Paso Street, Sierra Blanca, Texas 79851. Our accounting functions are conducted by personnel in Galveston and Tyler, Texas, Denver, Colorado, all under the supervision of our CFO, Wm Chris Mathers.
Overview of the Round Top Rare Earth-Uranium-Beryllium Project
We are currently in the exploration stage and have not established that our Round Top Project contains Proven or Probable Reserves as defined under SEC Guide 7.
Description and Access
Round Top is a small mountain, one of a group of five that comprises the Sierra Blanca, located in Hudspeth County approximately eight miles northwest of the town of Sierra Blanca. The property is reached by truck on a private dirt road that turns north off Interstate 10 access road approximately one mile west of the town of Sierra Blanca. A railroad line is located approximately one to three miles from the Round Top Project and a spur line stops at a stone quarry within three miles of the Round Top Project.
On March 6, 2013, we purchased the surface lease at the Round Top Project, known as the West Lease, from the Foundation for $500,000 cash and 1,063,830 shares of our common stock. We also agreed to support the Foundation through an annual payment of $45,000 for ten years to support conservation efforts within the Rio Grande Basin and in particular engaging in stewardship of Lake Amistad, a large and well-known fishing lake near Del Rio, Texas. The West Lease comprises approximately 54,990 acres. Most importantly, the purchase of the surface lease gave us unrestricted surface access for the potential development and mining of our Round Top Project. As of the date of this filing the $45,000 payments due in June 2016 and 2017 have not been paid; consequently, we have expensed the value of the West Lease during fiscal 2017. We fully intend to continue with the evaluation of the mineral potential of the property, to ultimately mine the property, and to bring the lease current when funds are available. Expensing the value of the West Lease does not restrict our access to the mineral leases.
Figure 1 - Round Top Location Map
Acquisition and Ownership
Prospecting Permits
TMRC currently holds prospecting permits covering land in Hudspeth County. The prospecting permits allow for exploration activities on approximately 7,110 acres. Currently, TMRC has yet to complete drilling on lands identified within the permits due to the requirement of completing archeological studies. TMRC intends to complete archeological studies in all areas for future exploration. To date, all exploration work has occurred on areas with approved archeological assessments. A summary of the prospecting permits is listed in Table 1 below:
Table 1 TMRC Permit Numbers and Associated Acres
September 2011 Lease
On September 2, 2011, we entered into a new mining lease with the Texas General Land Office covering Sections 7 and 18 of Township 7, Block 71 and Section 12 of Block 72, covering approximately 860 acres at Round Top Mountain in Hudspeth County, Texas. The mining lease issued by the Texas General Land Office gives us the right to explore, produce, develop, mine, extract, mill, remove, and market beryllium, uranium, rare earth elements, all other base and precious metals, industrial minerals and construction materials and all other minerals excluding oil, gas, coal, lignite, sulfur, salt, and potash. The term of the lease is nineteen years from execution date of lease so long as minerals are produced in paying quantities.
Under the lease, we will pay the State of Texas a lease bonus of $142,518; $44,718 of which was paid upon the execution of the lease, and $97,800 which will be due when we submit a supplemental plan of operations to conduct mining. Upon the sale of minerals removed from Round Top, we will pay the State of Texas a $500,000 minimum advance royalty.
Thereafter, we will pay the State of Texas a production royalty equal to eight percent (8%) of the market value of uranium and other fissionable materials removed and sold from Round Top and six and one quarter percent (61/4%) of the market value of all other minerals removed and sold from Round Top.
Thereafter, assuming production of paying quantities has not been obtained, we may pay additional delay rental fees to extend the term of the lease for successive one (1) year periods pursuant to the following schedule:
In August 2017, we paid the State of Texas a delay rental of $67,077.
November 2011 Lease
On November 1, 2011, we entered into a mining lease with the State of Texas covering 90 acres, more or less, of land that we purchased in September 2011 near our Round Top site. The deed was recorded with Hudspeth County on September 16, 2011. Under the lease, we paid the State of Texas a lease bonus of $20,700 which was paid upon the execution of the lease. Upon the sale of minerals removed from Round Top, we will pay the State of Texas a $50,000 minimum advance royalty. Thereafter, we will pay the State of Texas a production royalty equal to eight percent (8%) of the market value of uranium and other fissionable materials removed and sold from Round Top and six and one quarter percent (61/4%) of the market value of all other minerals sold from Round Top. The term of the lease is nineteen years from execution date of lease so long as minerals are produced in paying quantities.
Thereafter, assuming production of paying quantities has not been obtained, we may pay additional delay rental fees to extend the term of the lease for successive one (1) year periods pursuant to the following schedule:
In October 2017, we paid the State of Texas a delay rental to extend the term of the lease in an amount equal to $6,750.
March 2013 Lease
On March 6, 2013, we purchased the surface lease at the Round Top Project, known as the West Lease, from the Southwest Wildlife and Range Foundation (the “Foundation”) for $500,000 cash and 1,063,830 shares of our common stock. We also agreed to support the Foundation through an annual payment of $45,000 for ten years to support conservation efforts within the Rio Grande Basin and in particular engaging in stewardship of Lake Amistad, a large and well-known fishing lake near Del Rio, Texas. The West Lease comprises approximately 54,990 acres. Most importantly, the purchase of the surface lease gave us unrestricted surface access for the potential development and mining of our Round Top Project. .As of the date of this filing the $45,000 payments due in June 2016 and 2017 have not been paid; consequently, we have expensed the value of the West Lease during fiscal 2017. We fully intend to continue with the evaluation of the mineral potential of the property, to ultimately mine the property, and to bring the lease current when funds are available. Expensing the value of the West Lease does not restrict our access to the mineral leases.
October 2014 Surface Option
In October 2014, we executed an agreement with the Texas General Land Office securing the option to purchase the surface rights covering the potential Round Top project mine and plant areas, and separately a lease to develop the water necessary for the potential Round Top project mine operations.
The option to purchase the surface rights covers approximately 5,670 acres over the mining lease and the additional acreage adequate to site all potential heap leaching and processing operations as currently anticipated by the Company. We may exercise the option for all or part of the option acreage at any time during the sixteen year primary term of the mineral lease. The option can be kept current by an annual payment of $10,000, which has not been paid as of the date of this filing. The purchase price will be the appraised value of the surface at the time of exercising the option.
The ground water lease secures our right to develop the ground water within a 13,120 acre lease area located approximately 4 miles from the Round Top deposit. The lease area contains five existing water wells. It is anticipated that all potential water needs for the Round Top project mine operations would be satisfied by the existing wells covered by this water lease. This lease has an annual minimum production payment of $5,000 prior to production of water for the operation, which has not been paid as of the date of this filing. After initiation of production we will pay $0.95 per thousand gallons or $20,000 annually, whichever is greater. This lease remains effective as long as the mineral lease is in effect.
Existing Infrastructure
The Round Top rare earth prospect was initially developed in the late 1980s as a beryllium resource. As a result, several pieces of equipment were present at the property when we acquired the lease, some of which we have repaired as described below. The previous operators had also built out several roads at the prospect site, which we believe are suitable for our current exploration plans.
There exists on the Round Top site a 1,115 foot, 10 foot by 10 foot decline from the surface into the Round Top prospect. There are steel sets every five feet, in some cases less, and the entire working is lagged with timber. There are “escape holes” at intervals to allow personnel to avoid equipment. The escape holes are all in good operating condition. There is also a 36 foot steel ventilation line in place that runs for approximately 75 feet into the prospect. There is a 125 hp axial plane ventilation fan in place. We have leveled the fan and rehabilitated the control panel, and have operated this ventilation system during the evaluation of the historic Cabot-Cyprus work. We intend to install a “soft start” motor starter switch for the vent fan in the future in order to be able to use a 100kw generator.
A bag house is also located on the property that will need its electronic controls rehabilitated and modernized and filters installed. There is a 6” Victaulic compressed air line extending from the compressor station outside to the faces. There are numerous valves at strategic locations underground. There is one 2’ steel Victaulic water line for drill water and an additional partly plastic Victaulic water line for dust suppression sprayers, which also has sprayers in place.
There is electric cable from the portal to the face and a switch box underground. Some additional switching gear will need to be installed at the portal. The mine portal has a sturdy locking steel door in place that we have reconditioned.
There is a 500 barrel (23,000 gal) water tank below the mine dump for water to be hauled in and stored. This tank appears to be in good shape. The water line from the tank to the mine portal is missing and will have to be replaced. The water system will need a submersible pump, switching gear and approximately 1000 ft of 2” poly line to render the water system serviceable.
The nearest population center to the Round Top Project is Sierra Blanca, Texas. The town of Sierra Blanca is approximately six miles to the southeast of the Round Top Project site. The population was 533 in 2000 and 510 during the 2007 census. Skilled mining labor and support could be found in El Paso, approximately 85 miles to the northeast.
A major rail line parallels Interstate 10 approximately three to four miles west and south of the mine site. Approximately three miles from the Project site is a commercial rock quarry in operation which produces ballast for the railroad. The rock quarry operation has a rail road spur which is approximately two to three miles from the Project.
Power is currently supplied to Sierra Blanca through El Paso Electric Services. El Paso Electric Services has approximately 1,643 megawatts of generating capacity. As the greater power needs of a floatation operation have been eliminated by the proposed heap leach mine plan the existing 69 kV is thought to be adequate to supply the envisioned heap leach operation.
Water for the project may be obtained from a well field approximately 3 miles east of the mine site. In October of 2014, we executed a lease with the Texas General Land Office to develop the water necessary for the potential Round Top project mine operations. The ground water lease secures our right to develop the ground water within a 13,120 acre lease area located approximately 4 miles from the Round Top deposit. The lease area contains five existing water wells. It is anticipated that all potential water needs for the Round Top project mine operations would be satisfied by the existing wells covered by this water lease. This lease has an annual minimum production payment of $5,000 prior to production of water for the operation, which has not been paid as of the date of this filing. After initiation of production we will pay $0.95 per thousand gallons or $20,000 annually, whichever is greater. This lease remains effective as long as the mineral lease is in effect.
This well field was originally developed to supply water for a proposed real estate project in the late 1970’s. One of the existing wells is reported to have pump tested 950 gallons per minute and another 450 gallons per minute. This water is high enough in total dissolved solids to not meet drinking water standards, thus there is no competition for its use. The quality of the water is expected to be adequate for process water needs and the water will require treatment to be potable.
Geology
The Round Top Project area lies within the Texas Lineament Zone or Trans-Pecos Trend. The lineament is a northwest trending structural zone where Laramide thrust faulting followed by basin and range normal faulting were active. Tertiary igneous activity is also associated with the lineament zone, both intrusive and extrusive.
Locally the project area is characterized by five Tertiary microgranite bodies that intruded Cretaceous sedimentary rocks. The microgranites occur as laccoliths, mushroom-shaped bodies emplaced at relatively shallow depths. At the current erosional levels, laccoliths form resistant peaks with relief up to 2,000 feet. The microgranites, which are called rhyolites in the literature, are enriched with various metals which may or not be economical to recover. The rare earth elements are located with-in the intrusive rhyolite body.
Tertiary Diorite which predate the microgranites are intruded the cretaceous section. The diorites occur as sills, five to 100 feet thick and less frequently as dikes and plugs. Sedimentary rocks exposed in the area are middle to upper Cretaceous limestones shales and sandstones. The limestone, where it is in contact with the microgranites, is the host for Beryllium and uranium mineralization.
The Round Top Project was initially developed in the late 1980’s as a beryllium resource. During the course of the beryllium exploration, approximately 200 drill holes penetrated varying thicknesses of the rhyolite volcanic rock that makes up the mass of Round Top Mountain and caps the beryllium-uranium deposits which occur in the underlying limestone; some 50 more holes were drilled on Little Round Top, Sierra Blanca and Little Blanca Mountains.
The Texas Bureau of Economic Geology, working with the project geologists, conducted an investigation of the rhyolite to better understand its rare metal content. This research shows that the rhyolite laccoliths at Sierra Blanca are enriched in a variety of REEs and other rare elements such as tantalum, niobium, thorium and lithium. They analyzed a series of samples from outcrop and drill holes and studied the geochemistry and mineralogy of the rhyolite. The results of their research were published in the GSA, Geological Society of America, Special Paper 246, 1990.
Mineralization
Round Top rhyolite is enriched in Heavy Rare Earth Elements (HREEs). Statistical review of the current data shows that an estimated 70% of the total REE’s grade being HREEs. REE mineralization occurs primarily as disseminated microcrystals of varieties of fluorite (such as yttrium-rich yttrofluorite) where HREEs have substituted for calcium, and as other REE-bearing accessory minerals. REE minerals occur mainly in vugs and as crystal coatings, suggesting late-stage crystallization from an incompatible element-rich fluid.
The Round Top rhyolite was divided into five different alteration phases based on the intensity of hematitic and hydrothermal alteration: red rhyolite, pink rhyolite, tan rhyolite; brown rhyolite and gray rhyolite. Hematitic alteration is a replacement of the magnetite by hematite and gives the rhyolite a red to pink color. Hydrothermal alteration was late and gives the rhyolite a tan to brown color. Mostly unaltered, gray rhyolite was also documented.
Initial geochemical testwork, presented in Section 13, suggests that the gray and pink rhyolite units have the highest REE content, averaging between 554 and 615 parts per million (ppm) total REE + Yttrium (Y). Red and tan rhyolites, which may be strongly vapor-phase altered, contain about 8% lower abundance of REE and the brown rhyolite, which may be altered hydrothermally or by groundwater, contains about 23% less REE than the gray and pink varieties.
Metallurgy
The Round Top Project rhyolite requires further evaluation of its mineralogical makeup and economic modeling to determine the appropriate course for potential future commercial development. However, the size of this rhyolite deposit, the high percentage (68-72%) of heavy rare earth elements to the total rare earth elements and the leaching characteristics of the host rock could make a heap leach mine a viable option at lower capital costs than the mine plan described in our current PEA released June 22 2012. The Preliminary Economic Assessment is mentioned here for informational purposes only and is not incorporated herein by reference.
On October 27, 2011, we announced that we had completed Phase I of its metallurgical testing and characterization. This mineralogical study reconfirmed that the rare earth minerals are finely disseminated throughout the rhyolite host rock. Based on the initial ore characterization, this testing reconfirms the simplistic rare earth element mineral associations, which suggests favorable metallurgical processing options. Phase II was focused on pre-concentration evaluation and other diagnostic testing including acid leaching of the rare earth minerals. The results of this testing is described in the PEA.
On May 8, 2013, we announced independent confirmation of potential favorable heap leach characteristics, based on coarse leach testing at an independent lab. The results are summarized below:
*
La=Lanthanum, Ce= Cerium, Pr= Praseodymium, Nd= Neodymium, Sm= Samarium, Eu= Europium, Gd= Gadolinium, Tb= Terbium, Dy=Dysprosium, Ho= Holmium, Er= Erbium, Tm= Thulium, Lu= Lutetium, Yb= Ytterbium, Y= Yttrium, Th=Thorium, U= Uranium, Be= Beryllium, Li= Lithium
A sieved 2 to 4 mm (~1/8th to 1/4 inch) fraction of the composite rhyolite sample being used for all metallurgical testing was submitted. This sample was leached in 14.7 gm/l (14.7% by wt) sulfuric acid at room temperature for two weeks.
On July 16, 2013, we announced the results of an independent heap leach scoping study static leach test which confirmed recoveries up to 79.9%. The test results indicated the following:
1. Comparison of the calculated heads and the assayed heads for the elements of interest are similar. Hence, it is reasonable to conclude that the minerals are fairly uniformly distributed in the deposit.
2. Extractions for Yttrium varied from 20.8 to 61.1% for the different sizes with a combined extraction of 48.6%. Extractions for Dysprosium varied from 23.8% t o57.7% with a combined extraction of 44.5%.
3. The highest extractions for all minerals of interest were in the 2 in X 1/2 in size fractions. The extractions dropped significantly in the minus 1/2in size fraction.
4. The acid consumption was reasonable for the coarse size fractions (>1/2 inch) and more than doubled for the minus 1/2inch material.
On September 30, 2013, we announced the results of preliminary column leach testing. Preliminary column leach testing of Round Top rhyolite crushed to 1/2 inch has yielded the following recoveries of the heavy rare earth elements (terbium and heavier) plus yttrium. These tests were run for 60 days with 7.5 wt. percent sulfuric acid. Recoveries of the heavy rare earth elements plus Yttrium were as follows:
While concurrent work on the froth floatation and agitated leaching of the concentrates yielded acceptable recoveries, the whole rock column leach testing indicates better overall recoveries at potentially lower capital and operating costs. This rock also shows other very favorable heap leach characteristics with ore slump of 0.18%, ore wt. loss of 2.25% and retained moisture of 6.4%.
Work will continue to optimize the recoveries of the heavy rare earth elements (HREE) and yttrium as well as potentially valuable by-products such as uranium, beryllium and lithium and the light rare earth elements (LREE).
Project Exploration History and Timeline
The Round Top rare earths and uranium-beryllium prospects were initially drilled in 1984 and 1985, during which time the ore body known as the “West End Ore Zone” was discovered by Cabot Corporation. In subsequent years, Cyprus Minerals Corporation took over the exploration activities. Cyprus drilled additional exploration holes and also put an adit into the ore zone where 1,115 feet of underground workings were driven. Cyprus developed the underground workings in order to obtain bulk samples for pilot plant testing and beryllium oxide concentrate generation. Cyprus ultimately put the project on hold as a result of poor beryllium market conditions. Cyprus eventually allowed the lease with the state of Texas to lapse.
In March 2011, the Company completed an analysis of 1,103 drill samples from the 1984-88 drilling program initially conducted on the Round Top Project by third party operators. All or a portion of forty-six out of an estimated two hundred fifty existing drill holes have been re-logged and re-analyzed. The rare earth element and other metals are consistent with the original study by the Texas Bureau of Geology that was published in the Geological Society of America, Special Paper 246 in 1990. This study first described the rare metal content of the large mass of intrusive igneous rock that makes up the body of Round Top Mountain, and is the basis for our interest in this deposit. The nine drill holes cited below were selected because they are widely distributed and roughly define an area approximately six thousand feet by four thousand feet within the approximate seven thousand foot known diameter of the intrusive rhyolite body. They intersected the entire body of the rhyolite.
On October 27, 2011, we announced favorable results of our Phase I metallurgical testing and characterization that reconfirmed that the rare earth minerals are finely disseminated throughout the rhyolite host rock at our Round Top Project.
On November 8, 2011, we announced that our supplementary operating plan to expand exploration activities at our Round Top Project had been approved by the Texas General Land Office (GLO); the expanded development and exploration drill plan now calls for an additional 40 drill holes and 4 diamond core holes for an estimated planned drilled footage of 20,000 feet.
On November 10, 2011, we announced that Gustavson Associates, LLC, a subsidiary of Walsh Environmental Scientists and Engineers and its parent company, Ecology and Environment, Inc. (NASDAQ: EEI) had been contracted to perform the scoping study at the Round Top Project. On June 15, 2012, we issued a press release regarding the results of our Preliminary Economic Assessment.
On June 22, 2012, we published our PEA for our Round Top Project, entitled “NI 43-101 Preliminary Economic Assessment Round Top Project, Sierra Blanca, Texas,” dated June 22, 2012, effective as of May 15, 2012.
On October 3, 2012, our management released updated economic projections related to various revisions to the proposed mine plan presented in the PEA.
Throughout 2013, management focused on developing metallurgical processes and refining the mine plan in anticipation of releasing an updated PEA.
On March 6, 2013, we purchased the surface lease at the Round Top Project, known as the West Lease, from the Foundation for $500,000 cash and 1,063,830 shares of our common stock. We also agreed to support the Foundation through an annual payment of $45,000 for ten years to support conservation efforts within the Rio Grande Basin and in particular engaging in stewardship of Lake Amistad, a large and well-known fishing lake near Del Rio, Texas. The West Lease comprises approximately 54,990 acres. Most importantly, purchase of the surface lease gave us unrestricted surface access for the potential development and mining of our Round Top Project. As of the date of this filing the $45,000 payments due in June 2016 and 2017 have not been paid; consequently, we have expensed the value of the West Lease during fiscal 2017. We fully intend to continue with the evaluation of the mineral potential of the property, to ultimately mine the property, and to bring the lease current when funds are available. Expensing the value of the West Lease does not restrict our access to the mineral leases.
On May 8, 2013, we released testing results by an independent laboratory of the leaching characteristic of the rhyolite at our Round Top Project, which demonstrates characteristics that may be favorable to heap leach mining at the Round Top Project. These leaching characteristics are described in greater detail below under the section heading “Properties - Round Top Project - Metallurgy”.
On September 30, 2013 we released the results on column leach testing by an independent laboratory and announced our intention to issue a revised PEA based on a heap leach operation designed to produce approximately 2,500 tons per year of heavy rare earth elements plus yttrium. The column leach testing results are described in greater detail below under the section heading “Properties - Round Top Project - Metallurgy”.
On December 23, 2013, we published a revised version of the June 2012 Preliminary Economic Assessment (the “Revised PEA”) based on a 20,000 tonne per day heap leach operation using a conventional element separation plant. The mineralized material estimate was recalculated to include uranium, niobium, tantalum and tin. The Revised PEA assesses the potential economic viability of the simplified and “scaled down” operation which we believe is a much better fit with the present rare earth market.
On June 22, 2017 we announced the establishment of American Mineral Reclamation LLC. This subsidiary has the mission to seek out and develop lower cost projects involving metals and mineral recovery and production from coal by-products, acid mine drainage waters and sludges, mine waste and tailings, industrial wastewater and recovery of strategic metals from scrap from various sources. In addition to REE and scandium we intend to include other important “tech” metals such as Lithium, Cobalt, Vanadium, Gallium and others as conditions dictate. We have executed a co-operation agreement to work jointly with Inventure Renewals.
Cautionary Note to Investors: The PEA and Revised PEA have been prepared in accordance with Canadian National Instrument 43-101 - Standards of Disclosure for Mineral Projects (“NI 43-101”) and the Canadian Institute of Mining, Metallurgy and Petroleum (the “CIM”) - CIM Definition Standards on Mineral Resources and Mineral Reserves, adopted by the CIM Council, as amended. The Company has voluntarily had the PEA and Revised PEA prepared in accordance with NI 43-101 but the Company is not subject to regulation by Canadian regulatory authorities and no Canadian regulatory authority has reviewed the PEA or Revised PEA or passed upon its accuracy or compliance with NI 43-101. The terms “mineral reserve”, “proven mineral reserve” and “probable mineral reserve” are Canadian mining terms as defined in accordance with NI 43-101. These definitions differ from the definitions in SEC Industry Guide 7 under the United States Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”). Under SEC Industry Guide 7 standards, a “final” or “bankable” feasibility study is required to report reserves, the three-year historical average price is used in any reserve or cash flow analysis to designate reserves and the primary environmental analysis or report must be filed with the appropriate governmental authority. In addition, the terms “mineral resource”, “measured mineral resource”, “indicated mineral resource” and “inferred mineral resource” are defined in NI 43-101; however, these terms are not defined terms under SEC Industry Guide 7 and are normally not permitted to be used in reports and registration statements filed with the SEC. Investors are cautioned not to assume that any part or all of mineral deposits in these categories will ever be converted into reserves. “Inferred mineral resources” have a great amount of uncertainty as to their existence, and great uncertainty as to their economic and legal feasibility. It cannot be assumed that all or any part of an inferred mineral resource will ever be upgraded to a higher category. Under Canadian rules, estimates of inferred mineral resources may not form the basis of feasibility or pre-feasibility studies, except in rare cases. Investors are cautioned not to assume that all or any part of an inferred mineral resource exists or is economically or legally mineable. Disclosure of “contained ounces” in a resource is permitted disclosure under Canadian regulations; however, the SEC normally only permits issuers to report mineralization that does not constitute “reserves” by SEC Industry Guide 7 standards as in place tonnage and grade without reference to unit measures. Accordingly, information in the PEA and Revised PEA contains descriptions of our mineral deposits that may not be comparable to similar information made public by United States companies subject to the reporting and disclosure requirements under the United States federal securities laws and the rules and regulations thereunder. Our project as described in the PEA and Revised PEA currently does not contain any known proven or probable ore reserves under SEC Industry Guide 7 reporting standards. U.S. investors are urged to consider closely the disclosure in the Registrant’s latest reports and registration statements filed with the SEC. U.S. Investors are cautioned not to assume that any defined resources in these categories will ever be converted into SEC Guide 7 compliant reserves.
Current and Planned Metallurgical Activities
Metallurgical research done leading to the publication of our Revised PEA of December 2013 has shown the possibility of heap leaching at the Round Top Project. This first step of “dissolving” the REE bearing mineral is the critical factor in the determination to develop REE projects. The type of solvent, its strength and other conditioning necessary to render the elements soluble is, in our opinion, what most affects the ultimate feasibility of a project. TMRC has been able to extract a high percentage of the REE and other elements from the mineralized rock at the Round Top Project, and test work to date also indicates it can be done easily and at projected low operating costs.
Process development was scheduled as follows:
Stage 1a. Treat the primary leach solution to remove the impurity elements and to produce a feedstock solution at concentrations and flow rate acceptable to feed the processing plant.
Stage 1b. Desktop study of the CAPEX and OPEX of the plant envisioned at Round Top.
Stage 2a. Bench scale production of high purity separated elements
Stage 2b. Optimize leach recoveries of REE and other elements by large scale column leach testing. Primary leach solution produced during this phase will be used to refine the CIX/CIC recoveries of the various heavy elements and to develop methods for recovering the “light” elements, lithium in particular, by a variety of techniques including evaporation “salt out” and membrane filtration.
Stage 2c. Pilot plant testing using trial leach pads with solutions to be processed at the Tuscaloosa facility of Inventure Renewals.
Stage 3. Publication of a bankable feasibility study of the CIX/CIC processing plant.
Results to Date
Stage 1a. The Round Top pregnant leach solution (PLS) obtained by leaching the crushed ore with dilute sulfuric acid extracts the rare earth elements at high recoveries but also recovers high concentrations of aluminum, calcium, magnesium, iron, potassium and sodium. The PLS produced from the leach operation is expected to be at flow rates on the order of 600 gallons per minute with concentrations of rare earth elements in the range of 1,000 to 3,500 parts per million (ppm). First experimental run produced a solution that averaged approximately 1,000 ppm (.1%) rare earth and approximately 30,000 ppm (3%) impurities, a ratio of 30:1 impurities to REE. The Stage 1a processing was able to change this ratio to approximately 0.3:1 impurities to REE. This level of impurity rejection greatly exceed our target expectations and we believe demonstrates that the Round Top PLS can be relatively easily and economically processed into a feedstock compatible with any type of refining plant.
We believe that accomplishing this step of directly extracting the REE from the PLS without prior treatment or conditioning has accomplished the most difficult part of process design.
Stage 1a. The desktop economic model is kept current by factoring in any project progress and any variation of product mix and price as the project develops.
Stage 2a. The bench-scale separation of the rare earth elements into groups was completed in May 2015, through the rejection of the low value rare earth elements lanthanum and cerium from the Stage 1a solution.
Stage 2b. In late 2015 TMRC (then TRER) applied for and was granted a contract from the Defense Logistics Agency (DLA), Broad Agency Announcement - 2016-2017-01 for bench scale IX and IC purification and separation of REE from primary leach solution derived from crushed Round Top rock, which was successfully completed in mid-2016. This DLA sponsored work has accomplished Stage 2, milestone 1. This work resulted in the production of 99.999+ yttrium, 99.99% ytterbium and 99.999+% of an undisclosed REE element.
Current Status of the Round Top Project
Metallurgical development at Round Top is suspended pending the acquisition of additional financing. When started, this work will complete Stage 2 and is designed to result in a bankable feasibility study.
Costs
At the end of fiscal year 2017 we had incurred exploration costs at the Round Top Project of approximately $11.8 million. In the fiscal year ending August 31, 2017 there have been minimal exploration costs.
At the present time based on our current understanding of the project, we estimate the funding need to complete Stage 3 of the Round Top Project to be approximately $6.5 million including Corporate G&A. This estimate may and probably will change as more data is acquired.
Metal Recovery Methods
There are two options for extracting the REE from the leach solution, solvent extraction (SX) and ion exchange (IX).
SX is widely used in the REE industry. SX is a process whereby the water/acid leach solution is mixed with a kerosene based solution containing the active organic agents (extractants) and then allowed to settle and separate into the water and oil phase. The extractants carried in the kerosene selectively remove the REE’s and other sought after elements from the water/acid solution leaving the impurities in the original solution. The economic elements move from the aqueous sulfuric acid leach solution into the kerosene solution and are then transferred from the kerosene solution back into an aqueous solution, this time a hydrochloric acid solution at higher concentrations. This process is repeated over and over until all the individual REE’s are separated into their purified individual oxides and then sold.
IX is a process whereby the leach solution is passed through a tank or column containing small beads of an ion exchange resin. The ion exchange resin has the active extracting agents embedded within the beads. The resin beads adsorb the metal ions of interest from the leach solution. When the beads are loaded to their maximum carrying capacity the loaded column is exchanged for a column containing fresh beads. The elements “loaded” on the resin are then stripped back into another aqueous solution, again hydrochloric acid, at high concentrations for further processing. The column with the “stripped” beads is then ready to be recycled back into the process. In the IX process the stripped beads are normally loaded with hydrogen ions which, when exchanged with the REEs in the PLS, does not affect the acidity of the solution, thus the acid is also recycled back into the process, further lowering the operational costs.
The aluminum, iron and other elements can be chemically precipitated and removed by raising the pH and adding other elements such as magnesium. The “cleaned” solution is then further refined by SX or IX methods. Precipitation has been successfully used to clean the Round Top solutions but it results in approximately a 20% loss of some of the REE via co-precipitation with the less desirable elements. TMRC consultants are confident with additional work these losses will be reduced to 15% or lower. A disadvantage of this procedure is that most or all of the acid is neutralized and lost. Developing a procedure to use SX or IX to remove the REEs directly from the PLS will improve overall recoveries, simplify the process and significantly improve the operational economics.
SX has the advantage of being the process used in other REE operations, thus there is a considerable base of knowledge and experience to be relied on. We believe it has some disadvantages, however. SX plants, while being simple in concept, consist of many repetitive stages which result in a relatively large operation with many steps which in turn require close control and supervision. They are both labor and capital intensive.
IX has the advantage of being simpler and the plants physically much smaller. IX also is more forgiving operationally because it is less sensitive to variations in flow rate and REE grade than SX. Both capital and operating costs are generally lower than equivalent SX plants. However, IX has not, to date, been applied to an REE operation.
Our joint venture with K-Tech has the goal of developing an IX process for REE operations. K-Tech has wide experience with continuous ion exchange and continuous ion chromatography separation of rare earth and other elements from phosphate leach solutions. Insofar as phosphate leach solutions are chemically similar to the primary leach solution produced from leaching Round Top rhyolite, the decision was made to test the Round Top PLS using K-Tech’s process.
The process itself can be summarized as follows: In the first step the raw, high volume, high impurity, low REE grade PLS from the leached rock is converted to a relatively clean, high-grade sulfate solution. This is accomplished by loading the PLS onto a strong cat-ionic resin which, in the case of the Round Top PLS produces about a 4.5 to 1 concentration over the PLS. The resin is then subjected to a “crowding” step whereby most of the impurity elements are forced off the resin, followed by a gradational elution step where the resin is regenerated by sequentially stronger sulfuric acid whereby almost all the remaining impurities are first removed by the weak acid and then the REE themselves removed by strong acid.
The next step, now in progress, will employ CIC to produce 3 high purity products, a light rare earth solution, a mid-range rare earth product solution, and a heavy rare earth solution consisting of the elements terbium and those heavier, plus yttrium. The solution from the first step is fed to and loaded onto the resin as an acid sulfate solution. Once loaded and washed, the column is eluted by a chelating solution which causes the individual REE, because of the small differences in their cation attraction properties, to separate and exit the column at different times. The 3 classes are determined by splitting the streams based on their exit times.
The third step, the element separation stage, consists of more precise and slower reiterations of step two where the elements are tapped individually as they exit the column. High purity is achieved by repeating the process through several columns. The only limitation in the purity is the number of times the process is repeated. All solutions are recirculated, so there is no process loss.
CIX/CIC technology holds promise of revolutionizing the processing and separation of rare earth elements from their ores and then individually. Lower capital and operating costs, simplicity and flexibility, smaller size, and potential for lessening environmental risk are the decisive features recommending this technology. CIX/CIC has a long and well-established track record in other extractive industries, and relies on readily available equipment, resins, and reagents. There is nothing proprietary or “tailor made” in either the equipment, resins, or reagents used in this process.
Work completed in December 2014 has shown that the dilute REE bearing sulfate leach solution can be efficiently treated to produce a purified solution exceeding specifications for feedstock for a separation plant employing either a solvent extraction (SX) or a continuous ion exchange process. We regard the successful completion of Phase 1 of Stage 1 a technological breakthrough in that we were able use conventional ion exchange procedures (CIX) employing readily available, mass produced ion exchange resin to produce the feedstock solution from an impure low grade leach solution. This was step one of a three step program whose objective is to produce 4-9’s (99.99%) pure separated rare earth elements in either oxide or carbonate form.
After the Stage 1 processing, accomplished in January 2015, separated the REE’s from the pregnant leach solution (PLS), resulting in a relatively pure, concentrated mixed rare earths feedstock solution at flow rates suitable for feeding to either a solvent extraction (SX) plant or, as planned by TMRC, to a CIC plant work continued to define stages 2 and three. Uranium in the sulfate feedstock solution was not detected by ICP-MS analysis, inferring that neither it nor the chemically similar thorium is captured in Stage 1 and does not enter the REE processing plant.
The first part of stage 2 refining was achieved in May 2015. This involved the splitting of the feedstock solution from Stage 1 into two parts: (a) a low value branch consisting of lanthanum and cerium that could be warehoused, or sold at a discount; and (b) a high value branch consisting of the remaining rare earths profile (plus yttrium),which can be further refined.
The overall bench procedure used was to (1) produce a pregnant leach solution (PLS) by irrigating crushed ore from the Round Top deposit with dilute sulfuric acid in columns set up in K-Tech’s testing facilities; (2) process this PLS in the initial CIX Stage 1 system to remove the rare earth elements (REEs) from the PLS; (3) feed the rare earth solution to the initial step within the stage 2 ion chromatography (IC) testing system for further rare earths isolation and impurity rejection; (4) further processing to separate the contained rare earths into separate selected groups. This operation is carried out so that the first step is to isolate the lanthanum and cerium.
Using this procedure, K-Tech has produced a mids/heavies steam with a lanthanum/cerium content of less than 8% of the total rare earths present. The rare earth elements that TMRC considers economically important, i.e. praseodymium, neodymium, gadolinium, terbium, dysprosium, and yttrium make up approximately 68% of this product stream. This low lanthanum/cerium solution could then be immediately treated to produce a marketable mids/heavies (M/H) rare earth concentrate for sale to other rare earth producers or consumers. Work continues to further improve the efficiency of this step.
Alternatively, the resulting praseodymium/neodymium plus mid and heavy product stream from the stage 2 system could then be further refined in Stage 2 and 3 to ultimately produce selected individual high purity rare earth oxides. Rare earths which are not separated to individual products could be stockpiled as a concentrate for possible future processing, based on developing market conditions, either as individual elemental products or as selected heavy rare earth mixtures.
Most importantly, the materials used in the K-Tech separation processes are non-toxic, non-flammable and readily available from multiple suppliers, in large quantities and at competitive prices, thus limiting single source risks and dependence on a sole supplier of critical materials needed for the process. The principal equipment used in the production process is also commercially available and does not require specialty engineering or manufacturing. TMRC’s confidence in K-Tech’s ability to scale the process up to full commercial volumes is supported by their wide experience in the application of these same materials and processing techniques in other large-scale industrial separation processes. These include food; fertilizer; industrial chemical; hydrometallurgical; bioprocessing; and other applications requiring continuous processing techniques using ion exchange and ion chromatography as the basis for component separations. This assertion will be borne out in subsequent pilot plant testing where much larger quantities of feedstock will be tested.
The K-Tech JV
The striking success of this process led TMRC to propose a processing joint venture to introduce this technology to the larger rare earth industry. In July TMRC and K-Tech signed a definitive joint venture agreement venture to develop, refine and market K-Tech’s Continuous Ion Exchange (CIX) and Continuous Ion Chromatography (CIC) technology as it applies mostly to the extraction of rare earth elements (REE) from native ores. The JV will license the technology to TMRC, as well as other rare earth production companies. Subject to agreement by TMRC, the JV may also elect to build and operate processing facilities to separate and purify mixed rare earth concentrates into individual purified rare earth oxides for other rare earth production companies in addition to TMRC.
On July 15, 2015, we entered into an operating agreement (“Operating Agreement”) with K-Tech, to formalize our joint venture company, Reetech, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company (the “Reetech”), for the purposes of developing, refining and marketing K-Tech’s CIX/CIC process pursuant to the February 24, 2015 letter of intent with K-Tech. Pursuant to the Operating Agreement, K-Tech holds an initial interest of 97.21% of Reetech for the contribution of its technology pursuant to a license to Reetech (the “Reetech License) and TMRC holds an initial interest of 2.79% pursuant to its contribution of cash payment of $391,000 to the prior development of the contributed Technology for the purposes of the joint venture. TMRC has the ability to earn a 49.9% interest in Reetech by contributing up to $7.0 million in cash contributions upon the satisfaction of certain development milestones. Reetech is governed by a board of managers comprised of three managers: one manager appointed by the Company, one manager appointed by K-Tech and one manager appointed by mutual agreement of the Company and K-Tech.
In connection with the execution of the Operating Agreement, K-Tech granted to Reetech the Reetech License. The Reetech License is a perpetual license regarding K-Tech’s CIX/CIC process within the field of use of the joint venture for the production of rare earths and other products of value. Additionally, in connection with the execution of the Operating Agreement, Reetech granted to TMRC a perpetual license to use the technology within the field of use of the Reetech License for the development and operation of TMRC’s projects, including the TMRC’s Round Top project (“TMRC License”). Use of the TMRC License granted to TMRC is contingent upon TMRC paying to Reetech a one-time fee of $5 million at startup of the initial processing plant.
On October 18, 2015, we entered into an amendment agreement (the “Amendment”), effective August 27, 2015, with K-Tech, regarding certain amendments to the Operating Agreement. Concurrently with the execution of the Amendment, TMRC, K-Tech and Reetech entered into amendments to the Reetech License and the TMRC License.
Pursuant to the Amendment, K-Tech has agreed to amend the Agreement to change the conditions upon which TMRC may earn its 49.9% membership percentage interest in Reetech through special capital contributions. The Amendment provides that TMRC may now earn additional membership percentage interests in Reetech, up to the maximum percentage interest of 49.9%, through both (i) the cash contributions towards development of the Technology upon the occurrence of certain development milestones (same as in the Agreement prior to Amendment) and (ii) by TMRC being the procuring cause of third-party business for Reetech, in which case TMRC will be credited with capital contributions on a dollar-for-dollar basis for the revenue generated by such third-party business. To be the “procuring cause” of business, Reetech and the third-party business client must have been brought together and the third-party business client must have become a client of Reetech as the result of the continuous efforts of TMRC.
In consideration of the expansion of TMRC’s right to earn additional membership percentage interests in Reetech, TMRC and K-Tech have further amended the Agreement to provide the following:
● The Amendment provides that until such time as TMRC has been credited with the cumulative contribution to Reetech of either (i) $2.0 million in capital contributions made by TMRC, (ii) $3.5 million in collected revenue from third-party business clients of which TMRC was the procuring cause (as defined in the Amendment), or (iii) a combination of (i) and (ii) that total $3.5 million, one manager shall be appointed by TMRC and the remaining two managers shall be appointed by K-Tech. Following such contribution conditions being met, the Agreement will revert back to its original manager appointment provisions.
● The Agreement has been amended to provide that until such time as TMRC shall have earned its 49.9% interest in Reetech, K-Tech shall supervise the business of Reetech and K-Tech shall be the sole recipient of any profits realized from the business of Reetech.
The Amended TMRC License amends the one-time license fee payable by TMRC to Reetech for the use of the technology within the field of use by TMRC for its projects. Under the Amended TMRC License, TMRC will pay a one-time fee of $5.0 million payable at plant start-up for the annual (calendar year) production of up to 3,000 metric tons of rare earth oxides. In the event that TMRC subsequently desires to produce more than 3,000 metric tons, TMRC agrees to pay Reetech an additional market-based license fee to be negotiated by TMRC and Reetech before TMRC exceeds the 3,000 metric ton annual limit.
The operating agreement between TMRC and K-Tech is still in effect, but due to the inactivity of our Round Top project, there has been no ongoing advancement under the operating agreement as of August 31, 2017.
Based on the success of this process, TMRC, in conjunction with its joint venture partner K-Tech Inc., submitted a proposal to the Defense Logistics Agency of the Department of Defense to employ CIX/CIC to conduct research to demonstrate, at the bench scale level, the ability to separate and refine yttrium (Y) oxide to a minimum of 99.999% purity, ytterbium (Yb) oxide to a minimum of 99.99% purity and an undisclosed oxide to a minimum of 99.999% purity, using continuous ion exchange (CIX) and continuous ion chromatography (CIC).
Northeast Pennsylvania REE and Scandium Project
On June 28, 2016 TMRC executed a Memorandum of understanding with Pagnotti Enterprises Inc. of Wilkes Barre, Pennsylvania, owners of the Jeddo Coal Co., whereby under specified terms TMRC could lease one or more of Jeddo’s deposits located in the anthracite region of northeast Pennsylvania. Research by the Department of Energy (DOE) has shown that these coal deposits and the sandstones and siltstones immediately associated with them contain anomalously high values of rare earth and of particular interest, Scandium. The DOE research to date has indicated that the rare earth can be efficiently extracted from pulverized rock using ammonium sulfate as the lixiviant. TMRC is in the process of preparing an application for a federal grant to design and construct a continuous ion exchange/continuous ion chromatography (CIX/CIC) pilot plant to be delivered to a designated project area in the Appalachian cold province. TMRC and its co-applicants, K-Tech, Inventure Renewables, of Tuscaloosa, Alabama and Penn State University are proposing to plan, develop, design and install the CIX/CIC pilot plant at one of the Jeddo Coal properties. The grant was awarded in March 2017 to a consortium consisting of Inventure Renewables, Penn State, K-Tech and TMRC with Inventure being the principal investigator in the consortium. Funding began in September 2017.
Under the terms of the Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) signed 28 June 2016, TMRC had a six month term to perform the necessary due diligence and to technically and economically evaluate the properties. Upon execution of the MOU TMRC and PEI had six months to draft and execute a formal lease agreement containing all the standard terms of mining lease agreements. Upon execution of a lease, TMRC will be obligated to pay a $5,000 per month rental or a 12% royalty whichever is greater. As of the date of this filing, no lease has been executed.
Fundamentals of the Scandium Market
Scandium, like yttrium, is not technically a rare earth element but shares their exceptional chemical properties. The useful properties of scandium (Sc) are well known but its wide use has been retarded by lack of supply. Currently almost all is supplied principally by Russia and also by China. Russia’s supply is a by-product of uranium mining and China’s is from the Bataou Iron mine along with rare earth.
Scandium excels in two uses: solid oxide fuel cells and high strength aluminum alloy. Solid oxide fuel cells (SOFC’s) can efficiently produce electricity using a mixture of zirconium oxide and scandium oxide as the solid electrolyte layer of the cell. This technology has been known for a long time but its use has been restricted by their high operating temperatures. The use of scandium oxide lowers the operating temperature of these cells to an operationally practical level.
The other, and at the present time, far more important, use of scandium is an alloy of aluminum. This technology originated in Russia (USSR at that time), owing to their source of Sc, where it was discovered that these alloys have high-strength, stress resistance, temperature resistance and have superior welding characteristics. The USSR employed these alloys in a number of military applications including the MIG 29 (while U.S. aerospace designers understood the superiority of scandium for high-stress fighter aircraft, the inability to reliably source scandium led the U.S. to use a heavier titanium alloy instead). Again, supply was the main drawback, even for the Soviets. Today, global production in the opaque scandium market is estimated to run between 400 kg of virgin scandium, to a high end of 10 metric tons. In terms of potential demand, as one study notes: “If only a tiny fraction (0.1%) of the annual aluminum market absorbed scandium in alloy at a 0.5% level, it would represent 350 tonnes ($700M) in global scandium demand.”
In recent years, Airbus has extensively researched these Sc-Al alloys and has expressed high interest in using it in their airframes if a reliable supply can be developed. The American aircraft industry uses an inferior titanium-aluminum alloy. Besides its superiority as a structural alloy, the Sc-Al alloy is capable of making effective armor plate.
There is a growing interest in Sc for these reasons and there is a general consensus that as soon as a reliable supply can be found, the Sc-Al alloy usage will rapidly grow. The technology is ready, only the supply is lacking.
Scandium Pricing
Current scandium pricing is approximately $2000 per kilogram. The preliminary economic analysis (PEA) is based on this price. Although the projected expansion of usage of scandium is driven by availability rather than price, there is a possibility that at some time in the future the scandium price will seek lower levels. Because of the extremely favorable operating conditions at the Upper Lehigh property we estimate that the “break even” price for Scandium is approximately $550 per kilogram.
The Department of Energy Grant
In September of 2016 the Department of energy issued a Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA) whereby they intended to grant up to $27.75 million for the siting of a pilot plant at a selected location within the Appalachian Coal fields. This grant was to be in two stages, the first for $1 million to establish the basic engineering parameters and the second of up to $22.75 million to commission the pilot plant. TMRC took the lead and assembled a team consisting of itself, K-Tech, Penn State University and Inventure Renewables of Tuscaloosa. Inventure is closely associated with K-Tech and shares officers and directors. Inventure was chosen as the lead investigator in the project because of its large, research oriented facility and its considerable experience in securing and executing grants of this nature. In December of 2016 the consortium was awarded the phase 1 grant and funds were disbursed in September of 2017. TMRC‘s role in the venture will be as a subcontractor and is not the direct recipient of the grant funds. TMRC has begun the work of collecting the metallurgical samples and the first of these samples were delivered to Penn State in early October 2017.
Establishment of American Mineral Reclamation LLC
On June 22, 2017 we announced the establishment of American Mineral Reclamation LLC. This subsidiary has the mission to seek out and develop lower cost projects with shorter development times involving metals and mineral recovery and production from coal by-products, acid mine drainage waters and sludges, mine waste and tailings, industrial wastewater and recovery of strategic metals from scrap from various sources. In addition to REE and scandium we intend to include other important “tech” metals such as Lithium, Cobalt, Vanadium, Gallium and others as conditions dictate. We have executed a co-operation agreement to work jointly with Inventure Renewals. As of August 31, 2017, no activity has taken place within this LLC.
ITEM 3.