ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
Executive and Field Offices
Our headquarters are located at 539 El Paso Street, Sierra Blanca, Texas 79851. The El Paso warehouse located at 11459 Pellicano Dr., El Paso, Texas was terminated in June 2013. We have moved our accounting functions to our former office in Tyler, Texas under the supervision of our largest current stockholder and former CFO, G. W. McDonald.
Overview of the Round Top Rare Earth-Uranium-Beryllium Project
We are currently in the exploration stage and have not established that our Round Top Project contains Proven or Probable Reserves as defined under SEC Guide 7.
Description and Access
Round Top is a small mountain, one of a group of five that comprises the Sierra Blanca, located in Hudspeth County approximately eight miles northwest of the town of Sierra Blanca. The property is reached by truck on a private dirt road that turns north off Interstate 10 access road approximately one mile west of the town of Sierra Blanca. A railroad line is located approximately one to three miles from the Round Top Project and a spur line stops at a stone quarry within three miles of the Round Top Project.
On March 6, 2013, we purchased the surface lease at the Round Top Project, known as the West Lease, from the Foundation for $500,000 cash and 1,063,830 shares of our common stock. We also agreed to support the Foundation through an annual payment of $45,000 for ten years to support conservation efforts within the Rio Grande Basin and in particular engaging in stewardship of Lake Amistad, a large and well-known fishing lake near Del Rio, Texas. The West Lease comprises approximately 54,990 acres and is fully paid until 2028, thereby having a lease value of approximately $1,364,852. Most importantly, purchase of the surface lease gave us unrestricted surface access for the potential development and mining of our Round Top Project.
Figure 1 - Round Top Location Map
Acquisition and Ownership
Prospecting Permits
TRER currently holds prospecting permits covering land in Hudspeth County. The prospecting permits allow for exploration activities on approximately 7,110 acres. Currently, TRER has yet to complete drilling on lands identified within the permits due to the requirement of completing archeological studies. TRER intends to complete archeological studies in all areas for future exploration. To date, all exploration work has occurred on areas with approved archeological assessments. A summary of the prospecting permits is listed in Table 1 below:
Table 1 TRER Permit Numbers and Associated Acres
TRER has approximately 7,110 acres under annual prospecting permits with the State of Texas. TRER entered into the prospecting permits on October 31, 2014 and all are renewable on or before the anniversary date at a cost $1.00 per acre
September 2011 Lease
On September 2, 2011, we entered into a new mining lease with the Texas General Land Office covering Sections 7 and 18 of Township 7, Block 71 and Section 12 of Block 72, covering approximately 860 acres at Round Top Mountain in Hudspeth County, Texas. The mining lease issued by the Texas General Land Office gives us the right to explore, produce, develop, mine, extract, mill, remove, and market beryllium, uranium, rare earth elements, all other base and precious metals, industrial minerals and construction materials and all other minerals excluding oil, gas, coal, lignite, sulfur, salt, and potash. The term of the lease is nineteen years so long as minerals are produced in paying quantities.
Under the lease, we will pay the State of Texas a lease bonus of $142,518; $44,718 of which was paid upon the execution of the lease, and $97,800 which will be due when we submit a supplemental plan of operations to conduct mining. Upon the sale of minerals removed from Round Top, we will pay the State of Texas a $500,000 minimum advance royalty.
Thereafter, we will pay the State of Texas a production royalty equal to eight percent (8%) of the market value of uranium and other fissionable materials removed and sold from Round Top and six and one quarter percent (61/4%) of the market value of all other minerals removed and sold from Round Top.
Thereafter, assuming production of paying quantities has not been obtained, we may pay additional delay rental fees to extend the term of the lease for successive one (1) year periods pursuant to the following schedule:
In August 2014 we paid the State of Texas a delay rental of $44,718.
October 2014 Surface Option
In October 2014, we executed an agreement with the Texas General Land Office securing the option to purchase the surface rights covering the potential Round Top project mine and plant areas.
The option to purchase the surface rights covers approximately 5,670 acres over the mining lease and the additional acreage adequate to site all potential heap leaching and processing operations as currently anticipated by the Company. We may exercise the option for all or part of the option acreage at any time during the sixteen year primary term of the mineral lease. The option can be kept current by an annual payment of $10,000. The purchase price will be the appraised value of the surface at the time of exercising the option.
November 2011 Lease
On November 1, 2011, we entered into a mining lease with the State of Texas covering 90 acres, more or less, of land that we purchased in September 2011 near our Round Top site. The deed was recorded with Hudspeth County on September 16, 2011. Under the lease, we paid the State of Texas a lease bonus of $20,700 which was paid upon the execution of the lease. Upon the sale of minerals removed from Round Top, we will pay the State of Texas a $50,000 minimum advance royalty. Thereafter, we will pay the State of Texas a production royalty equal to eight percent (8%) of the market value of uranium and other fissionable materials removed and sold from Round Top and six and one quarter percent (61/4%) of the market value of all other minerals sold from Round Top.
Thereafter, assuming production of paying quantities has not been obtained, we may pay additional delay rental fees to extend the term of the lease for successive one (1) year periods pursuant to the following schedule:
In August 2014 we paid the State of Texas a delay rental to extend the term of the lease in an amount equal to $4,500.
Geology
The Round Top Project area lies within the Texas Lineament Zone or Trans-Pecos Trend. The lineament is a northwest trending structural zone where Laramide thrust faulting followed by basin and range normal faulting were active. Tertiary igneous activity is also associated with the lineament zone, both intrusive and extrusive.
Locally the project area is characterized by five Tertiary microgranite bodies that intruded Cretaceous sedimentary rocks. The microgranites occur as laccoliths, mushroom-shaped bodies emplaced at relatively shallow depths. At the current erosional levels, laccoliths form resistant peaks with relief up to 2,000 feet. The microgranites, which are called rhyolites in the literature, are enriched with various metals which may or not be economical to recover. The rare earth elements are located with-in the intrusive rhyolite body.
Tertiary Diorite which predate the microgranites are intruded the cretaceous section. The diorites occur as sills, five to 100 feet thick and less frequently as dikes and plugs. Sedimentary rocks exposed in the area are middle to upper Cretaceous limestones shales and sandstones. The limestone, where it is in contact with the microgranites, is the host for Beryllium and uranium mineralization.
The Round Top Project was initially developed in the late 1980's as a beryllium resource. During the course of the beryllium exploration, approximately 200 drill holes penetrated varying thicknesses of the rhyolite volcanic rock that makes up the mass of Round Top Mountain and caps the beryllium-uranium deposits which occur in the underlying limestone; some 50 more holes were drilled on Little Round Top, Sierra Blanca and Little Blanca Mountains.
The Texas Bureau of Economic Geology, working with the project geologists, conducted an investigation of the rhyolite to better understand its rare metal content. This research shows that the rhyolite laccoliths at Sierra Blanca are enriched in a variety of REEs and other rare elements such as tantalum, niobium, thorium and lithium. They analyzed a series of samples from outcrop and drill holes and studied the geochemistry and mineralogy of the rhyolite. The results of their research were published in the GSA, Geological Society of America, Special Paper 246, 1990.
Mineralization
Round Top rhyolite is enriched in Heavy Rare Earth Elements (HREEs). Statistical review of the current data shows that an estimated 70% of the total REE’s grade being HREEs. REE mineralization occurs primarily as disseminated microcrystals of varieties of fluorite (such as yttrium-rich yttrofluorite) where HREEs have substituted for calcium, and as other REE-bearing accessory minerals. REE minerals occur mainly in vugs and as crystal coatings, suggesting late-stage crystallization from an incompatible element-rich fluid.
The Round Top rhyolite was divided into five different alteration phases based on the intensity of hematitic and hydrothermal alteration: red rhyolite, pink rhyolite, tan rhyolite; brown rhyolite and gray rhyolite. Hematitic alteration is a replacement of the magnetite by hematite and gives the rhyolite a red to pink color. Hydrothermal alteration was late and gives the rhyolite a tan to brown color. Mostly unaltered, gray rhyolite was also documented.
Initial geochemical testwork, presented in Section 13, suggests that the gray and pink rhyolite units have the highest REE content, averaging between 554 and 615 parts per million (ppm) total REE + Yttrium (Y). Red and tan rhyolites, which may be strongly vapor-phase altered, contain about 8% lower abundance of REE and the brown rhyolite, which may be altered hydrothermally or by groundwater, contains about 23% less REE than the gray and pink varieties.
Metallurgy
The Round Top Project rhyolite requires further evaluation of its mineralogical makeup and economic modeling to determine the appropriate course for potential future commercial development. However, the size of this rhyolite deposit, the high percentage (68-72%) of heavy rare earth elements to the total rare earth elements and the leaching characteristics of the host rock could make a heap leach mine a viable option at lower capital costs than the mine plan described in our current PEA released June 22 2012. The Preliminary Economic Assessment is mentioned here for informational purposes only and is not incorporated herein by reference.
On October 27, 2011, we announced that we had completed Phase I of its metallurgical testing and characterization. This mineralogical study reconfirmed that the rare earth minerals are finely disseminated throughout the rhyolite host rock. Based on the initial ore characterization, this testing reconfirms the simplistic rare earth element mineral associations, which suggests favorable metallurgical processing options. Phase II was focused on pre-concentration evaluation and other diagnostic testing including acid leaching of the rare earth minerals. The results of this testing is described in the PEA.
On May 8, 2013, we announced independent confirmation of potential favorable heap leach characteristics, based on coarse leach testing at an independent lab. The results are summarized below:
La
Ce
Pr
Nd
Sm
Eu
Gd
Tb
Dy
Ho
ppm
ppm
ppm
ppm
ppm
ppm
ppm
ppm
ppm
ppm
Ore Grade
12.2
34.8
11.1
0.6
11.5
3.77
30.7
7.98
Recovery 1
8.4
25.3
8.6
<0.4
9.5
3.20
25.3
6.37
Recovery 2
7.7
22.8
8.3
0.4
9.3
3.11
24.7
6.20
Average Recovery
18.5
8.05
24.05
8.45
9.4
3.155
25.0
6.285
% Recovery
60%
61%
66%
69%
76%
67%
82%
84%
81%
79%
Er
Tm
Lu
Yb
Y
Th
U
Be
Li
ppm
ppm
ppm
ppm
ppm
ppm
ppm
ppm
ppm
Ore Grade
33.8
7.37
9.12
183.5
40.7
32.2
Recovery 1
25.8
5.09
5.32
36.4
146.5
20.0
6.50
Recovery 2
25.1
5.04
5.33
36.5
143.9
21.5
4.80
Average Recovery
25.45
5.065
5.325
36.45
184.5
145.2
20.75
5.65
% Recovery
75%
69%
58%
64%
85%
79%
51%
18%
66%
*La=Lanthanum, Ce= Cerium, Pr= Praseodymium, Nd= Neodymium, Sm= Samarium, Eu= Europium, Gd= Gadolinium, Tb= Terbium, Dy=Dysprosium, Ho= Holmium, Er= Erbium, Tm= Thulium, Lu= Lutetium, Yb= Ytterbium, Y= Yttrium, Th=Thorium, U= Uranium, Be= Beryllium, Li= Lithium
A sieved 2 to 4 mm (~1/8th to 1/4 inch) fraction of the composite rhyolite sample being used for all metallurgical testing was submitted. This sample was leached in 14.7 gm/l (14.7% by wt) sulfuric acid at room temperature for two weeks.
On July 16, 2013, we announced the results of an independent heap leach scoping study static leach test which confirmed recoveries up to 79.9%. The test results indicated the following:
1.
Comparison of the calculated heads and the assayed heads for the elements of interest are similar. Hence, it is reasonable to conclude that the minerals are fairly uniformly distributed in the deposit.
2.
Extractions for Yttrium varied from 20.8 to 61.1% for the different sizes with a combined extraction of 48.6%. Extractions for Dysprosium varied from 23.8% to57.7% with a combined extraction of 44.5%.
3.
The highest extractions for all minerals of interest were in the ½ in X ¼ in size fractions. The extractions dropped significantly in the minus ¼ in size fraction.
4.
The acid consumption was reasonable for the coarse size fractions (>1/2 inch) and more than doubled for the minus ¼ inch material.
On September 30, 2013, we announced the results of preliminary column leach testing. Preliminary column leach testing of Round Top rhyolite crushed to 1/2 inch has yielded the following recoveries of the heavy rare earth elements (terbium and heavier) plus yttrium. These tests were run for 60 days with 7.5 wt. percent sulfuric acid. Recoveries of the heavy rare earth elements plus Yttrium were as follows:
Yttrium (Y):
91%
Dysprosium (Dy):
87%
Lutetium (Lu):
67%
Holmium (Ho):
86%
Erbium (Er):
83%
Thulium (Tm):
77%
Ytterbium (Yb):
74%
Terbium (Tb):
87%
While concurrent work on the froth floatation and agitated leaching of the concentrates yielded acceptable recoveries, the whole rock column leach testing indicates better overall recoveries at potentially lower capital and operating costs. This rock also shows other very favorable heap leach characteristics with ore slump of 0.18%, ore wt. loss of 2.25% and retained moisture of 6.4%.
Work will continue to optimize the recoveries of the heavy rare earth elements (HREE) and yttrium as well as potentially valuable by-products such as uranium, beryllium and lithium and the light rare earth elements (LREE).
Project Exploration History
The Round Top rare earths and uranium-beryllium prospects were initially drilled in 1984 and 1985, during which time the ore body known as the "West End Ore Zone" was discovered by Cabot Corporation. In subsequent years, Cyprus Minerals Corporation took over the exploration activities. Cyprus drilled additional exploration holes and also put an adit into the ore zone where 1,115 feet of underground workings were driven. Cyprus developed the underground workings in order to obtain bulk samples for pilot plant testing and beryllium oxide concentrate generation. Cyprus ultimately put the project on hold as a result of poor beryllium market conditions. Cyprus eventually allowed the lease with the state of Texas to lapse.
In March 2011, the Company completed an analysis of 1,103 drill samples from the 1984-88 drilling program initially conducted on the Round Top Project by third party operators. All or a portion of forty-six out of an estimated two hundred fifty existing drill holes have been re-logged and re-analyzed. The rare earth element and other metals are consistent with the original study by the Texas Bureau of Geology that was published in the Geological Society of America, Special Paper 246 in 1990. This study first described the rare metal content of the large mass of intrusive igneous rock that makes up the body of Round Top Mountain, and is the basis for our interest in this deposit. The nine drill holes cited below were selected because they are widely distributed and roughly define an area approximately six thousand feet by four thousand feet within the approximate seven thousand foot known diameter of the intrusive rhyolite body. They intersected the entire body of the rhyolite.
On October 27, 2011, we announced favorable results of our Phase I metallurgical testing and characterization that reconfirmed that the rare earth minerals are finely disseminated throughout the rhyolite host rock at our Round Top Project.
On November 8, 2011, we announced that our supplementary operating plan to expand exploration activities at our Round Top Project had been approved by the Texas General Land Office (GLO); the expanded development and exploration drill plan now calls for an additional 40 drill holes and 4 diamond core holes for an estimated planned drilled footage of 20,000 feet.
On November 10, 2011, we announced that Gustavson Associates, LLC, a subsidiary of Walsh Environmental Scientists and Engineers and its parent company, Ecology and Environment, Inc. (NASDAQ: EEI) had been contracted to perform the scoping study at the Round Top Project. On June 15, 2012, we issued a press release regarding the results of our Preliminary Economic Assessment.
On June 22, 2012, we published our PEA for our Round Top Project, entitled “NI 43-101 Preliminary Economic Assessment Round Top Project, Sierra Blanca, Texas,” dated June 22, 2012, effective as of May 15, 2012.
On October 3, 2012, our management released updated economic projections related to various revisions to the proposed mine plan presented in the PEA.
Throughout 2013, management focused on developing metallurgical processes and refining the mine plan in anticipation of releasing an updated PEA.
On March 6, 2013, we purchased the surface lease at the Round Top Project, known as the West Lease, from the Southwest Wildlife and Range Foundation (the “Foundation”) for $500,000 cash and 1,063,830 shares of our common stock. We also agreed to support the Foundation through an annual payment of $45,000 for ten years to support conservation efforts within the Rio Grande Basin and in particular engaging in stewardship of Lake Amistad, a large and well-known fishing lake near Del Rio, Texas. The West Lease comprises approximately 54,990 acres and is fully paid until 2028, thereby having a lease value of approximately $1,364,852. Most importantly, purchase of the surface lease gave us unrestricted surface access for the potential development and mining of our Round Top Project.
On May 8, 2013, we released testing results by an independent laboratory of the leaching characteristic of the rhyolite at our Round Top Project, which demonstrates characteristics that may be favorable to heap leach mining at the Round Top Project. These leaching characteristics are described in greater detail below under the section heading “Properties - Round Top Project - Metallurgy”.
On September 30, 2013 we released the results on column leach testing by an independent laboratory and announced our intention to issue a revised PEA based on a heap leach operation designed to produce approximately 2,500 tons per year of heavy rare earth elements plus yttrium. The column leach testing results are described in greater detail below under the section heading “Properties - Round Top Project - Metallurgy”.
On December 23, 2013, we published a revised version of the June 2012 Preliminary Economic Assessment (the “Revised PEA”) based on a 20,000 tonne per day heap leach operation using a conventional element separation plant. The mineralized material estimate was recalculated to include uranium, niobium, tantalum and tin. The Revised PEA assesses the potential economic viability of the simplified and "scaled down” operation which we believe is a much better fit with the present rare earth market.
On September 8, 2014, we announced that we had completed an internal analysis suggesting that there is a reasonable possibility to adapt a lower volume staged growth approach to development of our Round Top project. The analysis indicated that an operation designed to produce a selected group of separated REE products in the range of 350-450 tonnes per year range, could potentially yield favorable mine economics. The goal of the proposed staged approach would be to increase mining rates if and when our products gained acceptability. The analysis suggested that capital needs in the Revised PEA could be proportionally reduced in relation to the lower volume initial stage. We are currently conducting a more detailed analysis of the relative capital expenses and operating expenses requirements of a scaled down processing plant with both solvent extraction and ion exchange processes under evaluation. We believe the lower capital requirements of a staged startup could offset any marginal increase in unit operating costs.
Cautionary Note to Investors: The PEA and Revised PEA have been prepared in accordance with Canadian National Instrument 43-101 - Standards of Disclosure for Mineral Projects (“NI 43-101”) and the Canadian Institute of Mining, Metallurgy and Petroleum (the “CIM”) - CIM Definition Standards on Mineral Resources and Mineral Reserves, adopted by the CIM Council, as amended. The Company has voluntarily had the PEA and Revised PEA prepared in accordance with NI 43-101 but the Company is not subject to regulation by Canadian regulatory authorities and no Canadian regulatory authority has reviewed the PEA or Revised PEA or passed upon its accuracy or compliance with NI 43-101. The terms “mineral reserve”, “proven mineral reserve” and “probable mineral reserve” are Canadian mining terms as defined in accordance with NI 43-101. These definitions differ from the definitions in SEC Industry Guide 7 under the United States Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”). Under SEC Industry Guide 7 standards, a “final” or “bankable” feasibility study is required to report reserves, the three-year historical average price is used in any reserve or cash flow analysis to designate reserves and the primary environmental analysis or report must be filed with the appropriate governmental authority. In addition, the terms “mineral resource”, “measured mineral resource”, “indicated mineral resource” and “inferred mineral resource” are defined in NI 43-101; however, these terms are not defined terms under SEC Industry Guide 7 and are normally not permitted to be used in reports and registration statements filed with the SEC. Investors are cautioned not to assume that any part or all of mineral deposits in these categories will ever be converted into reserves. “Inferred mineral resources” have a great amount of uncertainty as to their existence, and great uncertainty as to their economic and legal feasibility. It cannot be assumed that all or any part of an inferred mineral resource will ever be upgraded to a higher category. Under Canadian rules, estimates of inferred mineral resources may not form the basis of feasibility or pre-feasibility studies, except in rare cases. Investors are cautioned not to assume that all or any part of an inferred mineral resource exists or is economically or legally mineable. Disclosure of “contained ounces” in a resource is permitted disclosure under Canadian regulations; however, the SEC normally only permits issuers to report mineralization that does not constitute “reserves” by SEC Industry Guide 7 standards as in place tonnage and grade without reference to unit measures. Accordingly, information in the PEA and Revised PEA contains descriptions of our mineral deposits that may not be comparable to similar information made public by United States companies subject to the reporting and disclosure requirements under the United States federal securities laws and the rules and regulations thereunder. Our project as described in the PEA and Revised PEA currently does not contain any known proven or probable ore reserves under SEC Industry Guide 7 reporting standards. U.S. investors are urged to consider closely the disclosure in the Registrant’s latest reports and registration statements filed with the SEC. U.S. Investors are cautioned not to assume that any defined resources in these categories will ever be converted into SEC Guide 7 compliant reserves.
Exploration and Engineering Costs
To date we have incurred exploration costs at the Round Top Project of approximately $10.5 million. In the fiscal year ending August 31, 2014 our total exploration costs were approximately $456,000. We anticipate that our exploration costs for the fiscal year ending August 31, 2015 will be approximately $682,000, which will consist primarily of metallurgical expenses. We expect that our current cash balance will not be enough to meet our exploration costs for the next fiscal year unless additional capital is raised.
Improvements, Equipment, Power and Water
The Round Top rare earth prospect was initially developed in the late 1980s as a beryllium resource. As a result, several pieces of equipment were present at the property when we acquired the lease, some of which we have repaired as described below. The previous operators had also built out several roads at the prospect site, which we believe are suitable for our current exploration plans.
There exists on the Round Top site a 1,115 foot, 10 foot by 10 foot decline from the surface into the Round Top prospect. There are steel sets every five feet, in some cases less, and the entire working is lagged with timber. There are “escape holes” at intervals to allow personnel to avoid equipment. The escape holes are all in good operating condition. There is also a 36 foot steel ventilation line in place that runs for approximately 75 feet into the prospect. There is a 125 hp axial plane ventilation fan in place. We have leveled the fan and rehabilitated the control panel, and have operated this ventilation system during the evaluation of the historic Cabot-Cyprus work. We intend to install a "soft start" motor starter switch for the vent fan in the future in order to be able to use a 100kw generator.
A bag house is also located on the property that will need its electronic controls rehabilitated and modernized and filters installed. There is a 6" Victaulic compressed air line extending from the compressor station outside to the faces. There are numerous valves at strategic locations underground. There is one 2' steel Victaulic water line for drill water and an additional partly plastic Victaulic water line for dust suppression sprayers, which also has sprayers in place.
There is electric cable from the portal to the face and a switch box underground. Some additional switching gear will need to be installed at the portal. The mine portal has a sturdy locking steel door in place that we have reconditioned.
There is a 500 barrel (23,000 gal) water tank below the mine dump for water to be hauled in and stored. This tank appears to be in good shape. The water line from the tank to the mine portal is missing and will have to be replaced. The water system will need a submersible pump, switching gear and approximately 1000 ft of 2” poly line to render the water system serviceable.
The nearest population center to the Round Top Project is Sierra Blanca, Texas. The town of Sierra Blanca is approximately six miles to the southeast of the Round Top Project site. The population was 533 in 2000 and 510 during the 2007 census. Skilled mining labor and support could be found in El Paso, approximately 85 miles to the northeast.
A major rail line parallels Interstate 10 approximately three to four miles west and south of the mine site. Approximately three miles from the Project site is a commercial rock quarry in operation which produces ballast for the railroad. The rock quarry operation has a rail road spur which is approximately two to three miles from the Project.
Power is currently supplied to Sierra Blanca through El Paso Electric Services. El Paso Electric Services has approximately 1,643 megawatts of generating capacity. As the greater power needs of a floatation operation have been eliminated by the proposed heap leach mine plan the existing 69 kV is thought to be adequate to supply the envisioned heap leach operation.
Water for the project may be obtained from a well field approximately 3 miles east of the mine site. In October of 2014, we executed a lease with the Texas General Land Office to develop the water necessary for the potential Round Top project mine operations. The ground water lease secures our right to develop the ground water within a 13,120 acre lease area located approximately 4 miles from the Round Top deposit. The lease area contains five existing water wells. It is anticipated that all potential water needs for the Round Top project mine operations would be satisfied by the existing wells covered by this water lease. This lease has an annual minimum production payment of $5,000 prior to production of water for the operation. After initiation of production we will pay $0.95 per thousand gallons or $20,000 annually, whichever is greater. This lease remains effective as long as the mineral lease is in effect.
This well field was originally developed to supply water for a proposed real estate project in the late 1970's. One of the existing wells is reported to have pump tested 950 gallons per minute and another 450 gallons per minute. This water is high enough in total dissolved solids to not meet drinking water standards, thus there is no competition for its use. The quality of the water is expected to be adequate for process water needs and the water will require treatment to be potable.
Current and Planned Metallurgical Activities
Metallurgical research done leading to the publication of our Revised PEA of December 2013 has shown the possibility of heap leaching at the Round Top Project. This first step of "dissolving" the REE bearing mineral is the critical factor in the determination to develop REE projects. The type of solvent, its strength and other conditioning necessary to render the elements soluble is, in our opinion, what most affects the ultimate feasibility of a project. TRER has been able to extract a high percentage of the REE and other elements from the mineralized rock at the Round Top Project, and test work to date also indicates it can be done easily and at projected low operating costs. We are now at the stage of solution concentration and purifying.
We propose to carry this project forward in three stages. Stage 1 will determine the most efficient process to remove the rare earth elements from the pregnant leach solution (pls). Stage 2 will be pilot plant scale testing to define the operating parameters, capital costs and operating cost of the removal of the rare earth from the pls and the process to produce the high purity separated rare earth products for sale. Stage 2 will also design the process to separate and purify such by-product and potential by-products as uranium, thorium, lithium and beryllium. Stage 3 will bring the project to full feasibility with completed engineering, design, tables of organization and equipment and the required permitting and regulatory approvals.
Stage 1
Stage 1 is referred to as the purification step and will be implemented in two parts:
(1) Bench scale evaluation of an ion exchange process.
(2) Bench scale evaluation of a solvent extraction process tailored to the deposit’s mineralogy.
Test work to date shows that the Round Top pregnant leach solution (pls) obtained by extracting the elements in the deposit’s rare earth bearing minerals will present as a dilute sulfuric acid solution containing the REE's and several other potentially economic by-product elements such as beryllium, lithium, potassium and uranium. This solution will also contain relatively high concentrations of aluminum, calcium, fluorine, iron and sodium. The objective of Stage 1 is to establish the most efficient way to process the REE from the pls to a more concentrated solution that will then become the feed stock for the element separation plant.
We believe that accomplishing this step of directly transferring the REE from the pls by either method, without prior treatment or conditioning, will have the potential to both improve recoveries and to materially lower the capital and operating costs of the Round Top Project as presented in the Revised PEA. Once the purification step has been designed, the elemental separation process, mine and heap leach design and other feasibility related tasks should be relatively straightforward.
Flow rates from the production leach field are expected to be relatively high, within the 400 to 1,500 gallon per minute range. Rare earth processing plants in use today require input solutions to be at relatively low flow rates in the 10 to 20 gallons per minute range and fairly high concentration of the rare earth elements, with a solution grade of approximately 90,000 to 150,000 ppm (9 to 15%). We refer to this transfer as the purification step.
Work to be done in Stage 1 will be the bench test work and a comparative analysis of the results to determine the most effective method of separating the REEs and other potentially valuable elements from the less desirable elements such as iron and aluminum. Both solvent extraction (SX) and ion exchange (IX) will be evaluated; the process that most efficiently affects this transfer will be selected for Stage 2 development. A variation could be to partially or completely precipitate the impurities prior to the SX/IX stage.
We believe that the development of an effective process to purify and concentrate the pls is the definitive step in assuring the viability of the Round Top Project. Once that has been done the elemental separation process is relatively straight forward, SX or IX can be utilized.
Stage 2
Stage 2 will build on the results of Stage 1 and will be the pilot plant scale testing of the process proven most effective by Stage 1. The objective of this Stage will be the work required to bring the processing plant into full feasibility with capital and operating costs estimated to an accuracy range of 10 -15%. Stage 2 will also develop the heap leach procedure and pls solution management to pre-feasibility level with capital and operating estimated to an accuracy of 25 - 35%. Environmental base line studies and initial co-ordination with the Texas regulatory agencies will be included in this stage.
Stage 3
Stage 3 will bring the Round Top Project to full feasibility level. Electrical power and water needs will be developed, final mine design and engineering and the heap leach system engineering will be completed. The geotechnical drilling, construction planning will be done and permitting will be in progress. Additional drilling to bring all of the rock included in the 20 year pit to a measured or indicated resourced category will be done if necessary.
Budget
Our estimated budget for these stages is as follows:
Stage 2 will cost approximately $4,747,000 to complete. Currently, we estimate that Stage 3, a full feasibility study, will require, approximately, an additional $11,280,000. We do not currently have the working capital to complete any of these stages. We anticipate that this financing will raise sufficient capital to finish Stage 1. Stage 2 and Stage 3 will require additional financing. We anticipate raising additional funds through private offering of our equity or debt securities, entering into strategic arrangements or partnerships with industry peers to develop to Round Top Project or through selling non-core assets.
Metal Recovery Methods
There are two options for extracting the REE from the leach solution, solvent extraction (SX) and ion exchange (IX).
SX is widely used in the REE industry and is utilized by Rhodia (the France based REE processor) and the Chinese plants. SX is a process whereby the water/acid leach solution is mixed with a kerosene based solution containing the active organic agents (extractants) and then allowed to settle and separate into the water and oil phase. The extractants carried in the kerosene selectively remove the REE's and other sought after elements from the water/acid solution leaving the impurities in the original solution. The economic elements move from the aqueous sulfuric acid leach solution into the kerosene solution and are then transferred from the kerosene solution back into an aqueous solution, this time a hydrochloric acid solution at higher concentrations. This process is repeated over and over until all the individual REE's are separated into their purified individual oxides and then sold.
IX is a process whereby the leach solution is passed through a tank or column containing small beads of an ion exchange resin. The ion exchange resin has the active extracting agents embedded within the beads. The resin beads adsorb the metal ions of interest from the leach solution. When the beads are loaded to their maximum carrying capacity the loaded column is exchanged for a column containing fresh beads. The elements "loaded" on the resin are then stripped back into another aqueous solution, again hydrochloric acid, at high concentrations for further processing. The column with the "stripped" beads is then ready to be recycled back into the process. In the IX process the stripped beads are normally loaded with hydrogen ions which, when exchanged with the REEs in the PLS, does not affect the acidity of the solution, thus the acid is also recycled back into the process, further lowering the operational costs.
The aluminum, iron and other elements can be chemically precipitated and removed by raising the pH and adding other elements such as magnesium. The "cleaned" solution is then further refined by SX or IX methods. Precipitation has been successfully used to clean the Round Top solutions but it results in ~ a 20% loss of some of the REE via co-precipitation with the less desirable elements. TRER consultants are confident with additional work these losses will be reduced to 15% or lower. A disadvantage of this procedure is that most or all of the acid is neutralized and lost. Developing a procedure to use SX or IX to remove the REEs directly from the PLS will improve overall recoveries, simplify the process and significantly improve the operational economics.
SX has the advantage of being the process used in other REE operations, thus there is a considerable base of knowledge and experience to be relied on. It has some disadvantages, however. SX plants, while being simple in concept, consist of many repetitive stages which result in a relatively large operation with many steps which in turn require close control and supervision. They are both labor and capital intensive.
IX has the advantage of being simpler and the plants physically much smaller. IX also is more forgiving operationally because it is less sensitive to variations in flow rate and REE grade than SX. Both capital and operating costs are lower than equivalent SX plants. Its sole disadvantage is that it has not, to date, been applied to an REE operation.
ITEM 3.