ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
Executive and Field Offices. Our headquarters are located at 539 El Paso Street, Sierra Blanca, Texas 79851. Our accounting functions are conducted by personnel in Galveston, Texas, and Denver, Colorado, all under the supervision of our chief executive officer.
Overview of the Round Top Rare Earth-Uranium-Beryllium Project. We are currently in the exploration stage and have not established that our Round Top Project contains Proven or Probable Reserves as defined under SEC Guide 7.
Description and Access
Round Top is a small mountain, one of a group of five that comprises the Sierra Blanca, located in Hudspeth County approximately eight miles northwest of the town of Sierra Blanca. The property is reached by truck on a private dirt road that turns north off Interstate 10 access road approximately one mile west of the town of Sierra Blanca. A railroad line is located approximately one to three miles from the Round Top Project and a spur line stops at a stone quarry within three miles of the Round Top Project.
In March 2013, we purchased the surface lease at the Round Top Project, known as the West Lease, from the Foundation for $500,000 and 1,063,830 shares of our Common Stock. We also agreed to support the Foundation through an annual payment of $45,000 for ten years to support conservation efforts within the Rio Grande Basin and in particular engaging in stewardship of Lake Amistad, a large and well-known fishing lake near Del Rio, Texas. The West Lease comprises approximately 54,990 acres. Most importantly, the purchase of the surface lease gave us unrestricted surface access for the potential development and mining of our Round Top Project.
Round Top Location Map
Acquisition and Ownership
Prospecting Permits
TMRC currently holds prospecting permits covering land in Hudspeth County. The prospecting permits allow for exploration activities on approximately 7,110 acres. Currently, TMRC has yet to complete drilling on lands identified within the permits due to the requirement of completing archeological studies. TMRC intends to complete archeological studies in all areas for future exploration. To date, all exploration work has occurred on areas with approved archeological assessments. A summary of the prospecting permits is listed in Table 1 below:
TMRC Permit Numbers and Associated Acres
Permit # Acres
M-114639
M-114640
M- 114641
M-114642
M-114643
M-114644
M-114645
M-115990
M-115991
M-115992
M-115993
M-115994
M-115995
September 2011 Lease
In September 2011, we entered into a new mining lease with the GLO covering Sections 7 and 18 of Township 7, Block 71 and Section 12 of Block 72, covering approximately 860 acres at Round Top Mountain in Hudspeth County, Texas. The mining lease issued by the GLO gives us the right to explore, produce, develop, mine, extract, mill, remove, and market beryllium, uranium, rare earth elements, all other base and precious metals, industrial minerals and construction materials and all other minerals excluding oil, gas, coal, lignite, sulfur, salt, and potash. The term of the lease is nineteen years from execution date of lease so long as minerals are produced in paying quantities.
Under the lease, we will pay the State of Texas a lease bonus of $142,518; $44,718 of which was paid upon the execution of the lease, and $97,800 which will be due when we submit a supplemental plan of operations to conduct mining. Upon the sale of minerals removed from Round Top, we will pay the State of Texas a $500,000 minimum advance royalty.
Thereafter, we will pay the State of Texas a production royalty equal to eight percent (8%) of the market value of uranium and other fissionable materials removed and sold from Round Top and six and one quarter percent (61/4%) of the market value of all other minerals removed and sold from Round Top.
Thereafter, assuming production of paying quantities has not been obtained, we may pay additional delay rental fees to extend the term of the lease for successive one (1) year periods pursuant to the following schedule:
In August 2019, we paid the State of Texas a delay rental of $67,077.
November 2011 Lease
In November 2011, we entered into a mining lease with the State of Texas covering 90 acres, more or less, of land that we purchased in September 2011 near our Round Top site. The deed was recorded with Hudspeth County on September 16, 2011. Under the lease, we paid the State of Texas a lease bonus of $20,700 which was paid upon the execution of the lease. Upon the sale of minerals removed from Round Top, we will pay the State of Texas a $50,000 minimum advance royalty. Thereafter, we will pay the State of Texas a production royalty equal to eight percent (8%) of the market value of uranium and other fissionable materials removed and sold from Round Top and six and one quarter percent (61/4%) of the market value of all other minerals sold from Round Top. The term of the lease is nineteen years from execution date of lease so long as minerals are produced in paying quantities.
Thereafter, assuming production of paying quantities has not been obtained, we may pay additional delay rental fees to extend the term of the lease for successive one (1) year periods pursuant to the following schedule:
In August 2019, we paid the State of Texas a delay rental to extend the term of the lease in an amount equal to $6,750.
March 2013 Lease
In March 2013, we purchased the surface lease at the Round Top Project, known as the West Lease, from the Foundation for $500,000 cash and 1,063,830 shares of our Common Stock. We also agreed to support the Foundation through an annual payment of $45,000 for ten years to support conservation efforts within the Rio Grande Basin and in particular engaging in stewardship of Lake Amistad, a large and well-known fishing lake near Del Rio, Texas. The West Lease comprises approximately 54,990 acres. The purchase of the surface lease provided unrestricted surface access for the potential development and mining of our Round Top Project.
October 2014 Surface Option and Water Lease
In October 2014, we announced that we had executed agreements with the GLO securing the option to purchase the surface rights covering the potential Round Top Project mine and plant areas and, separately, a lease to develop the water necessary for the potential Round Top Project mine operations. The option to purchase the surface rights covers approximately 5,670 acres over the mining lease and the additional acreage adequate to site all potential heap leaching and processing operations as currently anticipated by the Company. We may exercise the option for all or part of the option acreage at any time during the sixteen year primary term of the mineral lease. The option can be kept current by an annual payment of $10,000. The purchase price will be the appraised value of the surface at the time of exercising the option.
The ground water lease secures our right to develop the ground water within a 13,120 acre lease area located approximately 4 miles from the Round Top deposit. The lease area contains five existing water wells. It is anticipated that all potential water needs for the Round Top Project mine operations will be satisfied by the existing wells covered by this water lease. This lease has an annual minimum production payment of $5,000 prior to production of water for the operation. After initiation of production we will pay $0.95 per thousand gallons or $20,000 annually, whichever is greater. This lease remains effective as long as the mineral lease is in effect.
Existing Infrastructure
The Round Top rare earth prospect was initially developed in the late 1980s as a beryllium resource. As a result, several pieces of equipment were present at the property when we acquired the lease, some of which we have repaired as described below. The previous operators had also built out several roads at the prospect site, which we believe are suitable for our current exploration plans.
There exists on the Round Top site a 1,115 foot, 10 foot by 10 foot decline from the surface into the Round Top prospect. There are steel sets every five feet, in some cases less, and the entire working is lagged with timber. There are “escape holes” at intervals to allow personnel to avoid equipment. The escape holes are all in good operating condition. There is also a 36 foot steel ventilation line in place that runs for approximately 75 feet into the prospect. There is a 125 hp axial plane ventilation fan in place. We have leveled the fan and rehabilitated the control panel, and have operated this ventilation system during the evaluation of the historic Cabot-Cyprus work. We intend to install a “soft start” motor starter switch for the vent fan in the future in order to be able to use a 100kw generator.
A bag house is also located on the property that will need its electronic controls rehabilitated and modernized and filters installed. There is a 6” Victaulic compressed air line extending from the compressor station outside to the faces. There are numerous valves at strategic locations underground. There is one 2’ steel Victaulic water line for drill water and an additional partly plastic Victaulic water line for dust suppression sprayers, which also has sprayers in place.
There is electric cable from the portal to the face and a switch box underground. Some additional switching gear will need to be installed at the portal. The mine portal has a sturdy locking steel door in place that we have reconditioned.
There is a 500 barrel (23,000 gal) water tank below the mine dump for water to be hauled in and stored. This tank appears to be in good shape. The water line from the tank to the mine portal is missing and will have to be replaced. The water system will need a submersible pump, switching gear and approximately 1000 ft of 2” poly line to render the water system serviceable.
The nearest population center to the Round Top Project is Sierra Blanca, Texas. The town of Sierra Blanca is approximately six miles to the southeast of the Round Top Project site. The population was 533 in 2000 and 510 during the 2007 census. Skilled mining labor and support could be found in El Paso, approximately 85 miles to the northeast.
A major rail line parallels Interstate 10 approximately three to four miles west and south of the mine site. Approximately three miles from the Project site is a commercial rock quarry in operation which produces ballast for the railroad. The rock quarry operation has a rail road spur which is approximately two to three miles from the project.
Power is currently supplied to Sierra Blanca through El Paso Electric Services. El Paso Electric Services has approximately 1,643 megawatts of generating capacity. As the greater power needs of a floatation operation have been eliminated by the proposed heap leach mine plan the existing 69 kV is thought to be adequate to supply the envisioned heap leach operation.
Water for the project may be obtained from a well field approximately 3 miles east of the mine site. In October 2014, we executed a lease with the GLO to develop the water necessary for the potential Round Top Project mine operations. The ground water lease secures our right to develop the ground water within a 13,120 acre lease area located approximately 4 miles from the Round Top deposit. The lease area contains five existing water wells. It is anticipated that all potential water needs for the Round Top Project mine operations would be satisfied by the existing wells covered by this water lease. This lease has an annual minimum production payment of $5,000 prior to production of water for the operation, which has not been paid as of the date of this filing. After initiation of production we will pay $0.95 per thousand gallons or $20,000 annually, whichever is greater. This lease remains effective as long as the mineral lease is in effect.
This well field was originally developed to supply water for a proposed real estate project in the late 1970’s. One of the existing wells is reported to have pump tested 950 gallons per minute and another 450 gallons per minute. This water is high enough in total dissolved solids to not meet drinking water standards, thus there is no competition for its use. The quality of the water is believed to be adequate for process water needs and the water will require treatment to be potable.
Geology
The Round Top Project area lies within the Texas Lineament Zone or Trans-Pecos Trend. The lineament is a northwest trending structural zone where Laramide thrust faulting followed by basin and range normal faulting were active. Tertiary igneous activity is also associated with the lineament zone, both intrusive and extrusive.
Locally the project area is characterized by five Tertiary microgranite bodies that intruded Cretaceous sedimentary rocks. The microgranites occur as laccoliths, mushroom-shaped bodies emplaced at relatively shallow depths. At the current erosional levels, laccoliths form resistant peaks with relief up to 2,000 feet. The microgranites, which are called rhyolites in the literature, are enriched with various metals which may or not be economical to recover. The rare earth elements are located with-in the intrusive rhyolite body.
Tertiary Diorite which predate the microgranites are intruded the cretaceous section. The diorites occur as sills, five to 100 feet thick and less frequently as dikes and plugs. Sedimentary rocks exposed in the area are middle to upper Cretaceous limestones shales and sandstones. The limestone, where it is in contact with the microgranites, is the host for Beryllium and uranium mineralization.
The Round Top Project was initially developed in the late 1980’s as a beryllium resource. During the course of the beryllium exploration, approximately 200 drill holes penetrated varying thicknesses of the rhyolite volcanic rock that makes up the mass of Round Top Mountain and caps the beryllium-uranium deposits which occur in the underlying limestone; some 50 more holes were drilled on Little Round Top, Sierra Blanca and Little Blanca Mountains.
The Texas Bureau of Economic Geology, working with the project geologists, conducted an investigation of the rhyolite to better understand its rare metal content. This research shows that the rhyolite laccoliths at Sierra Blanca are enriched in a variety of REEs such as tantalum, niobium, thorium and lithium. They analyzed a series of samples from outcrop and drill holes and studied the geochemistry and mineralogy of the rhyolite. The results of their research were published in the GSA, Geological Society of America, Special Paper 246, 1990.
Mineralization
Round Top rhyolite is enriched in HREEs. Statistical review of the current data shows that an estimated 70% of the total REE’s grade being HREEs. REE mineralization occurs primarily as disseminated microcrystals of varieties of fluorite (such as yttrium-rich yttrofluorite) where HREEs have substituted for calcium, and as other REE-bearing accessory minerals. REE minerals occur mainly in vugs and as crystal coatings, suggesting late-stage crystallization from an incompatible element-rich fluid.
The Round Top rhyolite was divided into five different alteration phases based on the intensity of hematitic and hydrothermal alteration: red rhyolite, pink rhyolite, tan rhyolite; brown rhyolite and gray rhyolite. Hematitic alteration is a replacement of the magnetite by hematite and gives the rhyolite a red to pink color. Hydrothermal alteration was late and gives the rhyolite a tan to brown color. Mostly unaltered, gray rhyolite was also documented.
Initial geochemical testwork, presented in Section 13, suggests that the gray and pink rhyolite units have the highest REE content, averaging between 554 and 615 parts per million (ppm) total REE + Yttrium (Y). Red and tan rhyolites, which may be strongly vapor-phase altered, contain about 8% lower abundance of REE and the brown rhyolite, which may be altered hydrothermally or by groundwater, contains about 23% less REE than the gray and pink varieties.
Metallurgy
In September 2013, we completed the first phase of heap leach testing. The products recovered from the heap leaching are categorized as rare earth elements, tech metals and industrial/fertilizer products. The results are summarized below:
In December 2013 we published a PEA based on a 20,000 tonnes per day heap leaching operation. This PEA called for the marketing of rare earth elements and uranium only and used the prices existing at that time.
In April 2015 we completed the first stage of hydrometallurgical testing at K-Tech, Lakeland Florida, that demonstrated it was possible to use ion exchange to extract the rare earth elements and the uranium and thorium from the primary leach solution. These tests also indicated that ion exchange and ion chromatography would be the most efficient process for refining and purifying the various products.
In July 2016 we completed a contract awarded by the Department of Defense, Defense Logistic Agency to TMRC and K-Tech demonstrating the ability of ion exchange and ion chromatography to make high purity rare earth products from leached Round Top rhyolite.
On August 16 2019 we published an expanded and upgraded PEA that included the various by-product elements in the resource base. This PEA is based on using ion exchange and ion chromatography for the refining of the rare earth group of elements and other various elements and other processes for lithium and the industrial and fertilizer elements.
Project Exploration History and Timeline
The Round Top rare earths and uranium-beryllium prospects were initially drilled in 1984 and 1985, during which time the ore body known as the “West End Ore Zone” was discovered by Cabot Corporation. In subsequent years, Cyprus Minerals Corporation took over the exploration activities. Cyprus drilled additional exploration holes and also put an adit into the ore zone where 1,115 feet of underground workings were driven. Cyprus developed the underground workings in order to obtain bulk samples for pilot plant testing and beryllium oxide concentrate generation. Cyprus ultimately put the project on hold as a result of poor beryllium market conditions. Cyprus eventually allowed the lease with the state of Texas to lapse.
In March 2011, the Company completed an analysis of 1,103 drill samples from the 1984-88 drilling program initially conducted on the Round Top Project by third party operators. All or a portion of forty-six out of an estimated two hundred fifty existing drill holes have been re-logged and re-analyzed. The rare earth element and other metals are consistent with the original study by the Texas Bureau of Geology that was published in the Geological Society of America, Special Paper 246 in 1990. This study first described the rare metal content of the large mass of intrusive igneous rock that makes up the body of Round Top Mountain, and is the basis for our interest in this deposit. The nine drill holes cited below were selected because they are widely distributed and roughly define an area approximately six thousand feet by four thousand feet within the approximate seven thousand foot known diameter of the intrusive rhyolite body. They intersected the entire body of the rhyolite.
Costs
At the end of 2019 fiscal year, we had incurred exploration costs at the Round Top Project of approximately $13 million.
Morzev Agreement
In August 2018, the Company and Morzev entered into an agreement where Morzev has the exclusive right to earn and acquire a seventy percent (70%) interest, increasable to an eighty percent (80%) interest, in the Round Top Project from the Company by funding certain expenditures described below. In connection therewith, Morzev purchased 646,054 shares of Common Stock for $140,000.
In order to acquire and earn the 70% interest in the Round Top Project, Morzev must perform and complete the following:
(i)expend a total of $2,500,000 for mining operations on the Round Top Project within 12 - 18 months of August 2018 (inclusion of the $140,000 common stock purchase); and
(ii)fund what is remaining to complete a bank feasibility study on the Round Top Project, up to a maximum of $7,500,000, with the remaining amount to be contributed equally between Morzev and the Company.
If and when Morzev satisfies the earning requirements above, its beneficial interest in the Round Top Project will immediately increase to 70% and the Company’s interest in Round Top will immediately reduce to 30%. Upon Morzev earning a 70% interest in Round Top, the parties shall formalize a joint venture in respect of Round Top, with each party being required to contribute to future expenditures with respect to Round Top in proportion to their ownership and all budgets and timelines to be determined and agreed by a management committee established between the parties, consisting of 2 appointees of Morzev and Mr. Gorski. Additionally, the failure of a party to fund its proportionate expenditure request may result in dilution of an ownership interest.
Morzev shall have the option to acquire from the Company an additional 10 percent interest (10%) in the Round Top Project by:
(i)providing written notice to the Company within 180 days of the completion of the bankable feasibility study; and
(ii)paying to the Company $3,000,000.
The additional option is only relevant if Morzev earns a 70% interest in the Round Top Project.
Morzev presently serves as the project manager of Round Top, with responsibility to manage, supervise, direct, and control the mining operations with respect to Round Top.
On August 26, 2019, we executed an amended and restated option agreement whereby Morzev assigned its interest in the option to USA Rare Earth LLC, a Delaware Corporation.
ITEM 3.