Item 2. Description of Properties.
Corporate Office
The Company does not currently have physical office space. We currently maintain our corporate office on a shared basis at 7251 West Lake Mead Boulevard, Suite 300, Las Vegas, Nevada, 89128 pursuant to a one-year lease for monthly lease payments of $249. Management believes that our office space is suitable for our current needs.
Oil and Gas Property Interests
Oil and Gas Property Lease Information
The Company’s Southeast Alberta Property is comprised of ten “P&NG leases with the government of the province of Alberta, Canada. All of the interests in the leases were acquired through a public land sale process held on a regular basis by the provinces of Alberta. Upon being notified that it has submitted the highest bid for a specific land parcel the Company immediately pays the government the bid price and enters into a formal lease with the government. Each lease is for a 5 year term with a commencement date equal to the date of acquisition, requires minimum annual lease payments of CDN $3.50 (USD $3.57) per hectare, and grants the Company the right to explore for potential petroleum and natural gas opportunities on the respective lease. The leases are renewable if certain conditions are met. All leases require the payment of the first year’s minimum annual lease payments at the time of acquisition. . The P&NG leases are subject to royalties payable to the Alberta provincial government. The royalty is calculated using a revenue-less-cost formula. In years prior to the recovery of the project’s capital investment, the royalty is 1% of gross revenue. Once the project costs have been recovered, the royalty is the greater of 1% of gross revenue or 25% of net revenue.
The province of Alberta can sell oil or gas rights separately and can sell the rights to different geological formations which can occur at different depths at different times. As a result, there are producing gas wells on several sections of the Company’s Southeast Alberta Property but the Company does not have the rights to the gas from these wells as the Company has acquired different rights from the province. The data from the gas well are available to the public so the Company may make use of this data when assessing its properties. However, the existence of a producing gas well on any one of the Company’s properties does not mean that gas or oil exists within the land rights held by the Company.
Unconventional Tight Gas Sands Background
Canada has large deposits of natural gas in rock formations that are especially difficult and expensive to produce. The gas in these difficult-to-produce formations is often referred to as “unconventional”. Most commonly, the formations are low permeability, or “tight” sandstones and limestones, coal seams, organic shales, or interbedded combinations of these formations.
Unconventional gas is found in virtually all Canadian sedimentary basins with the gas resource estimated at over 60 trillion cubic metres, according to the Alberta Utilities Commission. Over the last several decades, new technologies have allowed it to be commercially developed. According to the Alberta Utilities Commission, between 20% and 30% of Canada's current natural gas production is unconventional and unconventional gas accounts for over 40% of gas production in the United States.
Significant tight gas production occurs in shallow gas plays in Alberta, and the deep basin of Alberta. Over the years there has been significant success in accessing natural gas locked in these tight gas reservoirs primarily through the application of horizontal drilling technology. As conventional sandstones and limestones continue to decline in production, we believe that these tight formations will become increasingly important as industry currently shows a high level of interest in this play.
Leaman Property
Acquisition of Interest
On April 14, 2011, the Company doing business in Alberta, Canada as TNGS Oil & Gas, Inc. entered into the General Conveyance Agreement with Huron, pursuant to which Huron conveyed to the Company a 6% working interest in the Assets in 800 acres of land located in the Leaman Property. In consideration for the Assets, the Company paid Huron an aggregate CDN $140,000. Including closing costs and taxes the Leaman Property was acquired for a total of USD $148,367. The Leaman Property consists of six oil wells with five currently in production. Of the five currently in production, the Company receives revenue form four of the wells as a fifth well is currently in penalty. The one well in penalty is a result of Huron not paying its share of capital costs to the well’s operator. Huron did not pay its share of costs as the well has had minimal production to date. The Company does not expect to receive any future revenue from the well in penalty. .
Description and Location of the Leaman Property
The Leaman Property consists of a 6% non-operated working interest in 800 acres of land in the Leaman area of Alberta, Canada. The Leaman Property is located 80 miles northwest of Edmonton. The Company’s rights include P&NG rights from the base of Nordegg to the Base of the Pekisko.
The following is a list of the lands acquired as part of the Leaman Property acquisition:
(1)
Company’s interest in the 02/6-31-57-9W5 and 11-31-57-9W5 wells is: 0% BPPO and 6.00% APPO
Facilities
Water Disposal Pipeline, Metering Equipment and facilities from 8-36-57-10W5 to 16-35-57-10W5 disposal well
3% working interest
16-35-57-10W5 disposal well
6% working interest
The wells on the Leaman Property are operated by Petrobakken Energy Ltd. (‘Petrobakken”). The Company sells the oil it receives from the Leaman Property directly to a third party and pays Petrobakken on a monthly basis for the well operating costs. Gas production has been minimal since the acquisition of Leaman by the Company
Reserves and Resources
GLJ Petroleum Consultants of Calgary, Alberta, Canada have prepared a reserve report on the Leaman Property as of March 31, 2011. The following is a summary of the reported results.
A copy of this report has been attached to this Form 10-K as exhibit 99.1.
The Company’s share of production from April 1, 2011 to August 31, 2011 was approximately 401 barrels of oil.
Southeast Alberta Properties
Map of the Southeast Alberta Properties. Red circles indicate the location of the Company’s interests.
Acquisition of Interests
On August 19, 2010 the Company acquired an interest in the August 2010 Lease. Including fees and closing costs the rights to the August 2010 Lease were acquired for an aggregate $13,099 and the purchase price included the first year’s aggregate annual lease payments of $842. The total area covered by the August 2010 Lease is 256 hectares.
Between September 2, 2010 and September 30, 2010 the Company entered into the September 2010 Leases. Including fees and closing costs the rights to the September 2010 Leases were acquired for an aggregate $76,850 and the purchase price included the first year’s aggregate annual lease payments of $5,360. The total area covered by the September 2010 Leases is 1,536 hectares.
On December 15, 2010 the Company acquired an interest in the December 2010 Lease). The rights to the December 2010 Lease were acquired for $9,484 and the purchase price included the first year’s annual lease payments of approximately $899. The total area covered by the December 2010 Lease is 256 hectares.
On January 12, 2011, the Company acquired an interest in the January 2011 Leases. The rights to the January 2011 Leases were acquired for an aggregate of $49,613 and the purchase price included the first year’s aggregate annual lease payments of approximately $2,724. The total area covered by the Company’s January 2011 Leases is 768 hectares.
Description and Location of the Southeast Alberta Properties
The Company has acquired the following leases:
Regional Geology
Alberta contains vast amounts of coal distributed throughout the southern plains, foothills, and mountains. Originally deposited in relatively flat-lying peat swamps, organic matter (peat) was buried by sediments derived from uplift (mountain building), in the west and gradually changed into coal with increasing heat and pressure of burial. Over time, the coals were uplifted and partially eroded away, resulting in the present distribution of coal across the plains. Coal-bearing strata dip gently westward toward the mountains where coals are folded and abruptly turn toward the surface to be exposed in the foothills.
Coal typically occurs within a coal zone as discrete seams and/or packages with several thin and thick seams interbedded with non-coaly rock layers or beds. A coal zone may be traceable over a large geographic area. Coal zones are found in strata ranging in age from Late Jurassic (approximately 145 million years old) to Tertiary (approximately 65 million years old).
The oldest and deepest coals of the Alberta plains belong to the Lower Cretaceous Mannville Group coals. The Mannville coals are widely distributed across the Alberta plains, are thick, continuous and contain some of the highest gas contents of any coals in the Alberta plains. Typically six or more seams with cumulative coal thickness ranging from 2 to 14 meters occur over a stratigraphic interval of 40 to 100 meters. The thickest coals extend from southeast Grande Prairie in a widening wedge between Edmonton and Calgary to the Coronation area with coals occurring at depths ranging from about 800 meters to 2800 meters.
Upper Cretaceous through Tertiary-aged coal also occurs across the plains with older coals being overlain by progressively younger rocks and coals. Three coal zones are recognized within the Upper Cretaceous Belly River Group located in Alberta: the McKay Coal Zone, near the base of the Belly River Group; the Taber Coal Zone, located in the middle; and the Lethbridge Coal Zone, at the top of the Belly River Group. Compared to the Mannville coals, the overall thin coals and restricted lateral continuity of the Belly River Group coal seams have resulted in limited exploration efforts in these coals.
The rank of coal in Alberta ranges from very low (lignite) to high (anthracite). Coal near the surface in the plains is generally of sub-bituminous rank with lignite occurring in the north and northeast part of the plains, and high volatile bituminous C in the northwest and southwest areas of the plains. Coal rank increases with burial depth. In the plains, coal rank increases towards the west as seams dip and become progressively deeper toward the mountains. With increasing depth also comes increasing overburden pressure, which may restrict permeability.
To date, coals with relatively low gas contents, but with favorable fracturing are being exploited for unconventional production in the south-central plains. Mannville coals are showing potentially favorable amounts of fracturing and high gas contents in some locations and are undergoing evaluation in the north central to central plains.
Exploration History and Geology of the Southeast Alberta Properties
Atlee- Buffalo
The Atlee-Buffalo land parcel is located in Section 6, Township 23, Range 8 West of the 4th Meridian and is approximately sixty miles north of Medicine Hat, Alberta, Canada. The land contains one abandoned well 6-6-23-8W4 which was drilled and the rig released on 1989-08-27 with total depth (TD) to the Banff formation of the Mississippian age. Shallow Milk River stringers run from 1090 to 1340 feet in depth. The Company owns all P&NG rights and there has been no production to date. The offset wells at 16-36-22-9W4 and 6-31-22-8W4 are producing from the Milk River formation at a current rate of 10 to15 and 25 to 30 mcf/d (thousand cubic feet per day) respectively. Regionally, production in the area has been from the Belly River, Colorado, Medicine Hat, and Second White Specks zones. This land parcel does not contain any assigned reserves or resources and the Company has not had any production from this land parcel.
Bow Island
The two Bow Island land parcels are located in Sections 23 and 25 both in Township 10, Range 10 West of the 4th Meridian and are approximately twenty miles southwest of Medicine Hat, Alberta, Canada. Section 23 contains one abandoned well while no wells have been drilled on section 25. The Company owns all P&NG rights and there has been no production from the lands to date. The abandoned well 7-23-10-10W4 was drilled and rig released on 1990-01-25 with TD in the Madison horizon.
The Bow Island formation, at 2486 to 2493 feet and from 2630 to 2650 feet, was identified as having potential production. The formation has been damaged and will require fracturing.
Regionally, production in the area has been from the Milk River, Medicine Hat and Second White Specks in the vicinity of the Company lands and as these are generally blanket sands and may be considered for future development. New drilling in the region has been to the Sawtooth formation. These land parcels do not contain any assigned reserves or resources and the Company has not had any production from these land parcels.
Eyremore
The two Eyremore land parcels are located in Sections 20 and 21 in Township 18 Range 17 West of the 4th Meridian and are approximately forty-eight miles north of Lethbridge, Alberta, Canada. The two land parcels contain a total of eight producing gas wells which are producing from above the base of the Mannville formation. These eight wells are not Company gas wells as the lands acquired by the Company contain P&NG rights below the base of the Mannville. All new wells that have their productive formation identified are producing from zones that are above the base of the Mannville. These land parcels do not contain any assigned reserves or resources and the Company has not had any production from these land parcels.
Retlaw
The Retlaw land parcel is located in Section 9 Township 14 Range 18 West of the 4th Meridian and is approximately thirty miles northeast of Lethbridge, Alberta, Canada. The Company acquired P&NG rights below the base of the Mannville. The section contains one abandoned and one producing gas well however neither well penetrates to the zones acquired. Regionally, production has been from the Mannville, Belly River, Arcs, Nisku, and Glaucautic zones. This land parcel does not contain any assigned reserves or resources and the Company has not had any production from this land parcel.
Taber
The Taber land parcel is located in Section 22 Township 9 Range 16 West of the 4th Meridian and is located approximately thirty miles east of Lethbridge, Alberta, Canada. The land has one abandoned well 5-22-9-16W4 which was drilled and rig released on 1942-11-22. The existing logs are too old to be useful. The Company owns all P&NG rights. Regionally, newly drilled wells are located in a major Mannville field to the west of the Company land and have had production from the Mannville and Sawtooth formations. This land parcel does not contain any assigned reserves or resources and the Company has not had any production from this land parcel.
Cessford
The Cessford land parcel is located in Section 30, Township 22, Range 11, West of the 4th Meridian and is approximately sixty-five miles north north-west of Medicine Hat. The land contains nine gas wells and one abandoned well. These nine wells are not Company gas wells as the Company owns all P&NG rights below the base of the Medicine Hat sandstone excepting NG in the Basal Colorado and the Blairmore. Section 30 production is from the Medicine Hat and the Milk River which the Company has no P&NG rights. The surrounding gas producers have no Cardium, Bakken or Glauconite production. This land parcel does not contain any assigned reserves or resources and the Company has not had any production from this land parcel.
Suffield
The two Suffield land parcels are located in Township 17 Range 8 and Township 18 Range 5 respectively, both West of the 4th Meridian. The Company holds P&NG rights below the base of the Second White Specs. The land parcels and the surrounding lands have production from the Medicine Hat, Milk River and Second White Specs. The Company has no P&NG rights in any of these formations. There appears to be no area evidence of Cardium, Bakken, Viking or Glauconite production. The land contains fifteen gas wells and one abandoned well but these fifteen wells are not Company gas wells as the rights to the gas are held by third parties. These land parcels do not contain any assigned reserves or resources and the Company has not had any production from these land parcels.
Current State of Exploration
The Company has not undertaken any drilling on its Southeast Alberta properties. There are abandoned wells on such properties drilled by former property owners. In addition, there are producing gas wells but all production from these wells is owned by other companies as the production is from zones whose rights have been leased by other enterprises. Drill log information from wells drilled on adjacent properties is publicly available. The Company is currently reviewing these data.
Geological Exploration Program
The Province of Alberta maintains a significant publicly-available database of drilling information from all wells drilled under leases issued by the provincial government. Companies who drill on government land in Alberta are required to submit their drill results to the province. Therefore, previous drilling undertaken on land adjacent to the Company’s holding, or drilling on the Company’s land by companies exploring for other resources (oil sands for example) are required to submit their drill log data to the Alberta government. As a result, there is a large database of drill results available to the public. The Company has only recently begun its initial review of the publicly available data to determine the potential of its properties for exploration. The Company intends to undertake a more comprehensive review of this drill log data from surrounding properties in order to gain a better understanding of the exploration potential of its properties. The Company does not currently have agreements in place with qualified geologists who can undertake this review.
The review of the data will include preparing detailed geological maps using existing drill log data with the aim of identifying potential drill targets and to obtain a better understanding of potential strategies for acquiring new land holdings. The Company will not undertake any drilling in 2011, as the on-going review of available information will take between twelve to eighteen months to complete commencing January 2011. Therefore, the Company is not expecting to undertake any drilling until at least 2012.
Saskatchewan Properties
Acquisition of Interests
On April 12, 2010 the Company acquired an interest in the “Saskatchewan Leases”.. Including fees and closing costs the rights to the Saskatchewan Leases were acquired for an aggregate $9,873 and the purchase price included the first year’s aggregate annual lease payments of $372. The total area covered by the Company’s portion of the Saskatchewan Leases is 132 hectares. The interests in the Saskatchewan Leases were acquired through a public land sale process held on a regular basis by the Saskatchewan provincial government. Upon being notified that it has submitted the highest bid for a specific land parcel the Company immediately pays the Alberta government the bid price and enters into a formal lease with the government. The term of the Saskatchewan Leases is for 5 years, requires minimum annual lease payments, and grants the Company the right to explore for potential petroleum and natural gas opportunities on the respective lease.
On February 16, 2011 the Company disposed of its Saskatchewan Leases to Westpoint Energy, Inc. (“Westpoint”) for total proceeds of $15,000 resulting in a gain of $4,572. The Company sold its interests in the Saskatchewan Leases as they are located in Saskatchewan while the majority of the Company’s other assets are located in Alberta where the Company is focusing its activities. The President and CEO of the Company is also the President and CEO of Westpoint. In addition, Jack Adams is a member of the Board of Directors of the Company and Westpoint.
Alberta Well Interest
Acquisition of Interest
On April 12, 2010 the Company executed the Sale and Conveyance Agreement with the Vendor for the acquisition of a 2.51255% working interest in an oil well located in Alberta, Canada. Under the Agreement the Company paid the Vendor $6,043 including taxes and closing costs. The underlying property lease is with the Alberta provincial government.
Description and Location of the Alberta Well Interest
The underlying lease with the Alberta government is Crown Lease 0587090167 and is located at Township 49, Range 15 W5M: 7 with the well known as Apex et al Peco 100/06-07-049-15W5/00 (the “Well”). The Well is located approximately 30 miles from Edson, Alberta, Canada.
Exploration History of the Alberta Well Interest
The Well was initially drilled in 1998 and re-entered by Apex Energy (Canada) Inc. (”Apex”) in November 2003. To date there has been only minimal production from the Well and currently the Well is not in production. Harness Petroleum Inc. (“Harness”) is the current operator of the Well.
Current State of Exploration
To date there has been only minimal production from the Well and currently the Well is not in production.
Geological Exploration Program
Harness is currently assessing the potential for future development of the Well.
Item 3.