ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
Our principal executive office occupies approximately 230 square feet in Grand Junction, CO for a monthly payment of $600 per month. Total rent payments for 2013 and 2012 at this location was $7,200. We believe that our facilities are adequate to meet our needs for the foreseeable future.
We are engaged in the acquisition and exploration of properties that may contain gold mineralization in the United States. Our target properties are those that have been the subject of historical exploration. We have acquired State Exploration Permits and Federal patented and unpatented mining claims in the states of Arizona and Nevada
for the purpose of exploration and potential development of gold on a total of approximately 13,400 acres. We plan to review opportunities and acquire additional mineral properties with current or historic precious and base metal mineralization with meaningful exploration potential.
Our properties do not have any reserves. We plan to conduct exploration programs on these properties with the objective of ascertaining whether any of our properties contain economic concentrations of precious and base metals that are prospective for mining.
Bullfrog Gold Project
(1) Location
The central part of the Bullfrog Mining District lies approximately 2-1/2 miles northwest of the town of Beatty, which is in southwestern Nevada (Figure 1). Beatty lies 116 miles northwest of Las Vegas, via U.S. Highway 95, and 93 miles south of Tonopah, also via U.S. Highway 95. The property is accessed by traveling 2 miles west from Beatty on Nevada Highway 374, which intersects the southern block of the Company’s claims. The remaining claims are accessed by traveling north for four miles on various improved and unimproved roads to the northern end of the Company’s claims.
Figure 1. Bullfrog Project Location Map
(2) Title & Holding Requirements
On September 29, 2011, Standard Gold entered into an Amended and Restated Agreement of Conveyance, Transfer and Assignment with Bullfrog Holdings, Inc. and NPX Metals, Inc., pursuant to which Standard Gold acquired 100% right, title and interest in and to certain mineral claims known as the “Bullfrog Project” in consideration for 923,077 shares of Standard Gold’s common stock which were issued to NPX Metals, Inc. and a 3% Net Smelter Royalty in the Bullfrog Project to Bullfrog Holdings, Inc. To retain the property, the Company must
pay the annual claim maintenance fees and file a Notice of Intent to Hold with the BLM and Nye County, Nevada. The Company must also pay the county taxes on the two patented properties.
(3) History
In 1904 the Original Bullfrog and Montgomery-Shoshone mines were discovered by local prospectors. Prospecting activity was widespread over the Bullfrog Hills, and encompassed a 200 square mile area but centered within a two mile radius around the town of Rhyolite and included part of the Company’s property. The Montgomery-Shoshone mine reportedly produced about 94,000 ounces of gold prior to its closure in 1911, but there was no significant production from the other mines during that time period. Mines in the district were sporadically worked from 1911 through 1941, but the Company has no production records of such limited activities.
The Company’s Providence lode mining claim designated by the Surveyor General as Survey No. 2470 was located in October 1904, surveyed in April 1906, patented in May 1906 and recorded in Nye County Nevada in June 1908. The unpatented Lucky Queen claim is immediately east and adjacent to the Providence patent and is believed to have been located in the same time period but was not patented.
With the rise of precious metal prices in the early 1970's, the Bullfrog District again underwent intense prospecting and exploration activity for gold as well as uranium. Companies exploring the area included Texas Gas Exploration, Inc., Phillips Uranium, Tenneco /Copper Range, U.S. Borax, Western States Minerals, Rayrock, St. Joe American and successors Bond, Lac and Barrick Minerals, Noranda, Angst Mining Company, Placer Dome, Lac-Sunshine Mining Company Joint Venture, Homestake, and others. In addition to these major companies, several junior mining companies and individuals were involved as prospectors, promoters and owners. These scientific investigations yielded a new deposit model for the gold deposits that were mined by others in the Bullfrog District. The identification and understanding of the detachment fault system led to significant changes in exploration program techniques, focus, and success.
In 1982 St. Joe American, Inc. initiated drilling in the Montgomery-Shoshone mine area. By 1986, sixty holes had been drilled and a mineral inventory was defined. Subsequent drilling outlined a reported 2.9 million ounces of gold equivalent in the Bullfrog deposit. A series of corporate takeovers transferred ownership from St. Joe, to Bond Gold, to Lac Minerals and eventually to Barrick Minerals. Production started in 1989 and recovered approximately 200,000 ounces of gold annually from a conventional, 8,000 ton/day cyanidation mill mainly fed from open pit operations and later supplemented with underground production. Barrick discontinued production operations in 1999 and completed reclamation in 2003. Thereafter several groups continued exploration on a limited basis on lands currently held by the Company, but no resources or reserves were ever defined by these companies on the Company’s lands.
(4) Property Status and Plans
The Montgomery-Shoshone open pit mine remains open for possible access to additional mineralization that may occur on the Company’s adjacent property, but the company has no rights or authority to use such existing access on lands owned by others. The Company has conducted limited field examinations on its property to date but has evaluated all relevant available information. An exploration program has been developed and is scheduled to begin in 2013. Our primary targets are deposits that may be mined by open pit methods while assessing secondary targets that have potential for underground mining. The Company’s claims and patents cover approximately 1,600 acres and are in good standing, but contain no known resources or reserves and no plant or equipment. Electric power is available within two to five miles of the Company’s property.
Upon receipt of BLM approval, drilling would start soon thereafter. The geological justifications for the proposed exploration program are:
· Our property is adjacent to an open pit mined in the late 1990’s and this area has significant potential for mineral extensions. It is noted that when previous production operations in the District were shut down , the price of gold was less than $350 per ounce compared to the current price near $1,300 per ounce. The previous operator also did not control the patent and Lucky Queen claim that are adjacent to the Montgomery-Shoshone open pit and five other claims in the area which are now part of the Company’s property.
· Several mineralized trends and structures occur on other areas of the Company’s property that further justify additional drilling, see Figure 1.
The exploration programs will be funded from debt and equity programs that the Company is currently working on. In the event sufficient funds are not obtained, the programs will be deferred accordingly.
The company has engaged Chip Allender to manage the exploration activities on the Bullfrog Project. Mr. Allender has 35 years of experience in the mining industry, has a BS in Geology from the Colorado State University, is a Registered Professional Geologist in Utah and Washington, is a member of the Society of Mining Engineers, is a Certified Professional Geologist (AIPG) and is recognized as a Qualified Person in Canada and a Competent Person under the European code.
The Company has not performed any drilling programs on the Bullfrog Project but will use comparable Quality Assurance/Quality Control (QA/QC) procedures and protocols as described under the Newsboy Project.
(5) Geology
The Bullfrog Hills, in which the Bullfrog Project is located, are characterized by a complex geologic environment. The Hills are composed of complexly folded and faulted Tertiary volcanic rocks overlying a basement core complex of Paleozoic sedimentary and metamorphic rocks. The geologic structure is distinguished by widespread detachment faulting associated with tectonic events that formed the Basin and Range Geomorphic Province. The Bullfrog area mineral deposits occupy dilatant zones caused by tension faulting associated with the large detachment fault underlying the area. This detachment displacement and tension faulting resulted in the fracturing of brittle volcanic rocks that then became a suitable conduit for the movement of mineralizing hydrothermal fluids. This fracturing and fluid movement allowed for the saturation of a large volume of rock with mineral bearing solutions. The structural framework of the area also shows that classic strike slip faulting associated with movement of the upper plate of the detachment fault caused north south tension fractures and additional dilatant zones. Much technical work has been completed by government as well as private entities in the district since the early 1970's. This work includes geophysics, airborne radiometric surveys, geologic mapping, drilling and geochemistry.
Newsboy Gold Project
(1) Location
The Newsboy Gold Project is located in the Vulture Mountains of Arizona and consists of approximately 7,160 acres of state and federal lands located 45 miles northwest of the City of Phoenix, Arizona in Maricopa County. The closest towns, Wickenburg and Morristown, are located 10 miles and 3 miles respectively from the site. The Project is accessed by traveling on paved and gravel roads for 3 miles due west of Morristown. This route includes an unimproved crossing of the Hassayampa River, which flows a few days per year after severe rain storms. The Newsboy Project is located close to several well-known historical gold mines including: the Vulture, Congress and Yarnell mines.
Figure 2. Newsboy Project Location Map
(2) Title & Holding Requirements
On August 30, 2011, Standard Gold entered into an Agreement of Conveyance, Transfer and Assignment with Aurum National Holdings Ltd. (“Aurum”), pursuant to which Standard Gold purchased an option held by Aurum under that certain Option to Purchase and Royalty Agreement dated as of August 13, 2009 and as amended on June 30, 2011, between Aurum and Southwest Exploration, Inc. (“Southwest”), which gave Aurum the option to purchase a 100% right, title and interest in and to certain mineral claims known as the “Newsboy Project”. In consideration for the assignment of the option, Standard Gold issued to Aurum and its designees an aggregate of 4,000,000 shares of its common stock.
On September 28, 2011, Standard Gold and Southwest entered into an Option to Purchase and Royalty Agreement pursuant to which Southwest granted to Standard Gold, the sole and immediate working right and option to earn a One Hundred Percent (100%) interest in and to the Newsboy Project property free and clear of all charges encumbrances and claims. In order to maintain the working right and option, Standard Gold is obligated to pay Southwest an aggregate of $3,425,000 of which $500,000 has previously been paid. The balance due to Southwest on September 30, 2011 of $2,925,000 of which a total of $950,000 has been paid as of December 31, 2013. The remaining payments are payable on the following schedule:
Upon the full payment of the balance of $1,975,000, the option will be considered automatically exercised and the Company will have earned a 100% interest in and to the Newsboy Project property free and clear of all liens and encumbrances. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company is obligated to pay a Net Smelter Royalty payment equal to two percent (2%) of the proceeds from the sale or other disposition from any purchaser of any mineral derived from the ore mined from the Newsboy Project property. To retain the property, the Company must also pay the annual claim maintenance fees and file a Notice of Intent to Hold with the Bureau of Land Management and Maricopa County. The Company must also make annual payments for the lands leased from the State of Arizona. Should the Company choose not to maintain the working right and option to the property, the Company can forego future payments to Southwest without penalty. A total of $500,000 was paid to Southwest as part of the option to purchase agreement by third parties, which converted into an aggregate of 1,250,000 Units in the 2011 Private Placement. These payments have been recorded as increases to mineral property on the balance sheet.
In addition to the above payments, $50,000 was paid to Southwest by a third party for additional direct costs of acquiring the mineral property which converted into an aggregate of 125,000 Units in the 2011 Private Placement. This payment is included as an increase to mineral property on the balance sheet.
(3) History
Recorded historic mining activity is limited to a mineralized breccia exposed in the central zone of the deposit. Miscellaneous workings dating from 1915 include adits, a raise, a winze, trenches and an irregular inclined shaft. From 1940 to 1941 an estimated 11,000 tons of ore was shipped as flux to smelters in Arizona. The average grade of this material was 0.07 ounces of gold and 8.1 ounces of silver per ton. Several smaller prospects consisting of shafts, adits and shallow pits (likely of limited production) are scattered throughout the Project.
During the 1980’s several junior mining companies conducted evaluation work on the Project. In 1985 a 22-hole (4,170 feet) rotary percussion drill program by the Checkmate Resources Ltd. /Little Bear Resources Ltd. joint venture (“CLB”). Subsequently, Westmont Mining Company (“Westmont” or “WMC”) recovered and assayed duplicate samples from the CLB holes. Westmont secured title to the Project and in 1987 began a program of geologic mapping, aerial photography and photogrammetry, rock chip sampling of outcrops and 83 reverse circulation drill holes totaling 19,080 feet. In 1989 Lupine Minerals Corporation (“LM”) secured a joint venture with Westmont and drilled 19 additional reverse circulation holes totaling 4,530 feet. By the end of 1989 a total of 102 holes (23,610 feet) had been drilled on the Project.
During 1990, Newsboy Gold Mining Company (“NGMC”), a 100% owned subsidiary of the Australian listed Pima Mining NL executed a purchase option on the Newsboy Project from Westmont. NGMC drilled 12 diamond core holes (1,681 feet), 40 reverse circulation holes (6,560 feet), conducted metallurgical test work, re-interpreted the geology and completed resource/reserve and mine planning studies. NGMC also completed the following studies in 1991 and 1992 in preparation for mining the Newsboy Project:
· Feasibility Study from Signet Engineering Pty Ltd. of Perth, Australia;
· Metallurgical Study from Kappes, Cassiday & Associates of Reno, Nevada;
· Resource and Reserve Calculation from Computer Aided Geoscience Pty. Ltd. of Sydney, Australia;
· Environmental Assessment from Fletcher Associates;
· Arizona Aquifer Protection by Lyntek Inc. Harding Lawson Associates, Water Resources Associates Inc.;
· Socioeconomic Impact of the Newsboy Gold Mine from the Western Economic Analysis Center;
· Mining Plan of Operations by Lyntek Inc. Harding Lawson Associates;
· Due Diligence Review of Newsboy Gold Project by Pincock, Allen & Holt Inc. (“PAH”); and,
· Newsboy Gold Project, Plan of Execution by Signet Engineering.
Prior to the Company’s exploration programs completed between 2011 and 2013, a total of 35,214 feet of drilling has been completed on the Newsboy Project over six programs at an expenditure of more than $7 million.
Metallurgical test work by Kappes, Cassiday and Associates (“KCA”) in 1991, has shown gold and silver recoveries on cyanide bottle roll tests of 82% and 19% respectively for mineral averaging 0.044 gold opt, ground to
80% passing 200 mesh and leached for 24 hours. Cyanide and lime consumptions were low, ranging from 0.07 to 0.38 pounds per ton for cyanide and 1.3 to 2.3 pounds per ton for hydrated lime. KCA concluded that “the ore is fairly clean and free of cyanicides”.
In 1991 a feasibility study was completed for a 600,000 ton per annum processing plant for the Newsboy Project. The report included design criteria for the Newsboy Project including metallurgical test work, equipment lists, mass balance flow sheet consistent with the design criteria, layouts, process description with proposed equipment and plant operation, infrastructure review, mine plan, development capital, operating costs and a project schedule. Historic in-pit reserves estimated in 1992 using data from 125 holes in the Main deposit area and a 0.023 gold opt cutoff were 1.3 million tons averaging 1.78 ppm gold and 40.1 ppm silver and containing 70,000 ounces of gold and 1.5 million ounces of silver. However, these estimates pre-date and are not compliant with current US and Canadian standards and should not be relied upon.
The feasibility study concluded that ore could be economically processed at a rate of 600,000 ton per annum at a mineable grade of 0.05 ounces of gold and 1.4 ounces of silver per ton at an average strip ratio of 3.6:1. Anticipated recoveries, based on the metallurgical studies, were projected at 90% for gold and 20% for silver for a proposed production rate of 27,000 ounces of gold and 168,000 ounces of silver per year. In 1993 NGMC was sold to Moneta Porcupine Mines. Moneta cored 8 holes and completed geophysical and geochemical programs, but abandoned the property in 1995 due to low gold prices and other considerations.
From September 2008 to August 2009 Southwest acquired the Newsboy Project by staking 44 lode claims (880 acres) and 12 placer claims (1,920 acres). Four separate state leases (1,520 acres) were also acquired. Southwest evaluated the geology, drilling, workings, survey control and access, and collected 33 samples. Of these samples, 10 assayed at or above the gold cut-off range of 0.8 ppm. In 2009 and 2010 an additional 46 lode claims were staked (920 acres).
(4) Property Status and Plans
The Company’s property contains no known reserves and no plant or equipment. Electric power is available approximately 3 miles from the Company’s property. The Company and its independent consultants have developed and completed four phases of exploration drilling to confirm and expand existing mineralized zones.
Each of the phased drill programs must justify the continuation of activities for subsequent phases. Continuing exploration and development after phase 4 is dependent on results and other technical and economic considerations and conditions.
The exploration programs are being funded from debt and equity financing that the Company has obtained. In the event sufficient funds are not obtained beyond the current debt and equity financing, the programs will be deferred accordingly.
Mr. Clive Bailey has been responsible for all the Newsboy programs since October 2011 and will continue to manage the programs on the Newsboy Project. Mr. Bailey has approximately 39 years of experience in the mining industry, has a BS in Geology from the Kent State University, is a Certified Professional Geologist (AIPG) and is s recognized as a Qualified Person in Canada.
The Company performs and abides by industry standard concerning QA/QC procedures and protocols. Below is a brief description of these procedures used during the drilling programs completed at the Newsboy Project:
1. All drilling in phases 1-3 was performed using reverse circulation methods. Drill cuttings were sampled at intervals of 5 feet and split in the field to typically produce 15-pound representative samples for further preparation and assaying. These samples were then bagged, tagged and secured under the management, direction, supervision and custody of Clive Bailey, the Company’s Consulting Geologist. Sample lots were transported to the Company’s office in Morristown and stored until Skyline Laboratories (“Skyline”) accepted custody upon loading on their truck for transport to a secure sample storage building at their laboratory in Tucson, Arizona,
2. All Company samples were analyzed using a 30 g fire assay (FA) with an atomic absorption spectroscopy (AAS) finish for gold. This technique has a lower detection limit of 0.005 ppm and an upper detection limit of 3.00 ppm. Samples with greater than 3.00 ppm gold were re-analyzed using a 30 g FA with a gravimetric finish. All samples were also analyzed using a5 g sample with a four acid digestion for silver and multi-element analysis using an Induced Coupled Plasma Emission spectroscopy (ICP-OES) instrument This technique has a lower detection limit of 1 ppm and an upper detection limit of 150 ppm. Samples with greater than 150 ppm silver were re-analyzed using a 30 g FA with a gravimetric finish.
3. Skyline crushed the entire sample to 75% passing - 10 mesh and then split 250 g for pulverization to 95% - 150 mesh. Cleaner sand was run through the crusher every 25 samples or at any color change in the sample as noticed by Skyline’s lab tech. Sand was run between every sample in the pulverizing step to preclude lingering contamination. Pulps were split again to separate a 30 g sample for FA/AAS for gold and a 5 g sample for multi-acid digestion and ICP-OES and multi element analysis.
4. All Newsboy samples from Phase 1-3 drilled by the Company were analyzed at Skyline. Skyline has ISO/IEC 17025:2005 certification for FA/AAS. ICP-OES and ICP-Mass Spectroscopy (MS).
5. QA/QC samples used by the company include blanks, standards and field duplicates. The inserts QA/QC samples at the following frequencies:
· One to two blanks per hole pending depth and observes mineralization. Blanks were inserted at the end of each mineralized sequence;
· One to two standards per hole. Two standards were inserted if a second mineralized zone was observed ( two standards were used as deemed appropriate - one being high grade and the other being low grade); and
· One duplicate sample for each 100 feet or 20 five-foot samples.
Blank material was a barren marble purchased from building material stores. The blank is uncertified but analysis continually showed it was below detection limits for gold and silver. Two certified standards were purchased from WCM Minerals Ltd (WCM) of Burnaby, British Columbia. In addition, Skyline performs their own internal controls to assure accuracy and precision of their results.
6.
Phase 4 drilling was performed with a track-mounted rotary air blast or percussion drill methods and equipment using similar QA/QC procedures as used for reverse circulation drilling in Phases 1-3.
7. The Company and its Consultants are of the opinion that the QA/QC program was appropriate for collecting, preparing and analyzing drill samples and were adequate for the purposes intended in the normal course for calculating resource and reserve estimates. Skyline’s assay certificates were also stamped by an assayer registered in the State of Arizona.
On February 4, 2014 SRK Consulting (SRK) of Denver, Colorado delivered a final technical report that is compliant with the current Canadian National Instrument 43-101 Standards of Disclosure for Mineral Projects. SRK Consulting is an independent, international consulting practice that offers services from exploration through feasibility, mine planning, and production to mine closure. Formed in 1974, SRK now employs more than 1,600 professionals internationally in over 50 offices on 6 continents.
Table 1 is SRK’s statement of mineral resources contained within a pit optimization shell in the Main deposit above a cutoff grade of 0.5 parts per million (ppm) gold. SRK generated 86 pit shells using Whittle™ pit-optimization software and the inputs and assumptions shown in Table 2, which are based on SRK’s experience with other projects and may not be supported by potential scoping studies. The effective date of the SRK report was November 1, 2013.
Table 1
Pit-Constrained Mineral Resource Statement in the Main Deposit
·Mineral Resources are not Mineral Reserves and do not have demonstrated economic viability. There is no certainty that all or any part of the Mineral Resources estimated will be converted into Mineral Reserves.
·Open pit resources stated as contained within a potentially economically minable pit shell, and a calculated internal cut-off grade of 0.5 ppm gold was used based on the following parameters: US$2.82/t mining cost, US$15.41/t processing cost, 88% gold and 18% silver recovery, G&A cost of US$2.67/t, 2% NSR and a US$1,500/oz value for gold and US$30/oz value for silver.
·Mineral resource tonnage and contained metal have been rounded to reflect the accuracy of the estimate, and numbers may not add due to rounding.
·Troy ounces have been calculated using the following method: tonnes (metric) x grade (ppm) / 31.1034. Tons or s. tons refer to US standard short tons.
Table 2
Economic & Technical Assumptions for Pit Optimization
Table 3 is a summary of measured, indicated and inferred resources within pit optimization shells using the 0.5 ppm gold cutoff and four additional cutoff grades:
Table 3
Pit-Constrained Mineral Resource Sensitivity in the Main Deposit
Five of the 86 pit shells are included in Table 4 to specifically show the pronounced increases in total tons, mineral tons, strip ratio and depths between pits 34 and 35 for a gold price difference of only $30 per ounce. These increases are due to significantly deeper overburden and downward faulting toward the southeast where Bullfrog’s drilling discovered deeper extensions of mineralization. Pit 36 is shown since it was used to report mineral resources. Pit 46 shows further increases in mineral tons at slightly lower grades and strip ratios than Pit 36.
Table 4
Results of Five Specific Whittle™ Pit Shells
Note: Tonnes and grades may not match mineral resource tables, as Whittle™ results are presented on a re-blocked model at an internal Whittle cut-off grade.
SRK estimated inferred resources in the shallow zone of the Queen of Sheba exploration target area at 259,000 short tons averaging 1.21 ppm gold and 4.0 ppm silver, based on data from 13 drill holes. The available data from drill holes and those qualified and used for resource estimations are summarized below:
Table 5
Drill Hole Data Base as of November 1, 2013
* Twin core holes for metallurgical testing have a minor area of influence.
In summary, exploration and drilling by the Company during the past two years has delineated a significant gold-silver resource at the Newsboy Project dominantly contained within a pit optimization shell in the Main deposit. Significant exploration targets at the Queen of Sheba and RUS areas of the property have also been further defined. The Project has an extensive data base that has now been converted from paper to electronic format and vetted by qualified third parties. SRK’s Technical Report may be viewed at Bullfrog’s website.
(5) Geology
The Newsboy Project is an epithermal gold deposit and is one of several gold deposits that occur within a broad mineral belt that sweeps across the southwestern half of Arizona. The Project area is located within the Basin and Range Province of Central Arizona. Tertiary volcanic and sedimentary sequences rest unconformably on Proterozoic metamorphic and granitic rocks. Middle Miocene faulting has dissected the tertiary sequences into a series of north-northwest homoclines that dip to the northeast.
The gold and silver mineralization at the Newsboy Project occurs in a shallow dipping, major brecciated shear zone referred to as the Newsboy Fault, which forms the local unconformable contact between the overlying brittle Tertiary volcanics and underlying Proterozoic metamorphic basement rocks. This contact is a shallow dipping, blanket-like breccia ranging from 50 feet to 120 feet thick. The deposit is cut by a series of northwest trending high angle faults, resulting in the Newsboy ore body being progressively down dropped to the east. The deposit is terminated on the west by one of these high angle faults, referred to as the “Wash Fault” but is open to the north, south and down dip.
Mineralization occurs in veins of white to light green banded quartz and is very low in sulphide minerals. The gold and silver appear to have been introduced into the breccia with silica by a series of low temperature epithermal pulses of mineralized fluids partially filled open spaced fractures. Extensive silicification accompanied mineralization and has been later overprinted by black, manganiferous calcite veining. The gold deposition is surrounded by intense oxidizing hydrothermal activity that has altered the rhyolitic rocks to various assemblages of quartz, alunite and kaolinite.
The Newsboy breccia mineralization is exposed in Wash Fault which marks the western boundary of the ore body. Elsewhere, Quaternary sediments, up to 60 feet in depth, cover the breccia.
Klondike Project
(1) Location
The central part of the Klondike claim block is located in the Alpha Mining District approximately 30 miles north from the town of Eureka in central Nevada (Figure 1). The property is accessed by traveling 3 miles north from Eureka on US Hwy 50, thence 30 miles north on Nevada Highway 278, thence east 2 miles along various dirt roads. The claim block is approximately 5 miles north -south and 1.5 miles east-west.
(2) Title & Holding Requirements
On June 11, 2012, Standard Gold and Arden Larson (“Larson”) entered into an Option to Purchase and Royalty Agreement pursuant to which Larson granted to Standard Gold, the sole and immediate working right and option to earn a One Hundred Percent (100%) interest in and to the Klondike Project property free and clear of all charges encumbrances and claims. In order to maintain the working right and option, Standard Gold is obligated to pay Larson an aggregate of $575,000 over a 10-year period plus net smelter royalties from the claims and an area of interest.
(3) History
The Alpha Mining District was organized about 1877 but no significant activity occurred until 1895. There is no record of production but tonnages were small. A second period of activity began with the discovery of the Old Whelan Mine, which was believed to have shipped to Salt Lake City, Utah. The Prince of Wales Mine produced copper sulfide ores from shallow workings during World War I. Since then the district has been idle but was evaluated in detail in 1977 by W. Van der Ley, a consulting geologist. During 2010 until mid-2012 Arden Larson, Geologist, investigated the property and staked the first 64 claims. Since then Standard Gold staked an additional 168 claims to cover most of the Alpha Mining District.
(4) Property Status and Plans
The Company’s property contains no known reserves and no plant or equipment. The Company and its independent consultants have developed a mapping and drilling program to explore several priority targets observed on the Klondike claims. The first phase of this program will focus on those targets having shallow high grade silver potential.
(5) Geology
The prospect pits, adits and shafts on the Klondike claims are located primarily in the lower elevations of the west side of the Sulphur springs Mountain range in Paleozoic lower plate carbonates and siliciclastics in NE trending fault breccia zones. The western part of the area may be a structural outlier from the main range front fault. This outlier is a much dissected faulted section of lower Paleozoic rocks in fault contact with the upper plate units of the Roberts Mountain Thrust. In addition to shallow silver, copper, lead, zinc and barite occurrences, the area also has a strong geochemical signature of molybdenum.
ITEM 3