Item 2. Properties
The Ruby Property
On September 27, 2010, the Company executed an option-to-purchase agreement with Ruby Development Company (“RDC”), a California partnership, for the acquisition of the Ruby Mine (the “Ruby”) in Sierra County, California. The purchase price is $2,500,000, which was to be paid in stages originally extending to December 30, 2012, and which has since been extended by amendment to December 30, 2015. Terms of the Ruby agreement provided for an initial option period of 5 months that expired on January 31, 2011, at which time we elected to extend the option for a second 5 month period, expiring on June 30, 2011. On June 1, 2011, the Company exercised its option to purchase the Ruby Mine and made a final option payment of $85,000 to open escrow. On July 1, 2011, escrow was closed and the acquisition of the Ruby Mine was completed. During the preceding option period and as of the closing date, the Company has made payments totaling $510,000 to RDC, consisting of $360,000 cash and 50,000 shares of common stock valued at $150,000. These payments were credited towards the purchase price, thereby reducing the outstanding principal due to $1,990,000. In addition, in compliance with the agreement dated September 27, 2010, as amended on January 26, 2011, the Company issued warrants to RDC that gives them the option, until December 31, 2015, of purchasing up to 10 million shares of stock at two cents ($0.02) per share, and in compliance with a second amendment to the Option Agreement dated April 22, 2011, the Company issued 5-year warrants granting RDC the right to purchase 2 million shares of the Company’s common stock at the exercise price of ten cents ($0.10) per share.
On the transaction closing date of July 1, 2011, the Company issued a promissory note to RDC for $1,990,000 plus 3% interest per annum. The note was due on or before December 30, 2012. Pursuant to an amendment executed on December 12, 2012, the note maturity was extended to June 30, 2013, and monthly mortgage payments in Q1 2013 were reduced to $10,000 per month. In consideration of said extension, the Company made a $50,000 principal payment on December 27, 2012. Monthly payments as of April 1, 2013, were set to increase to $85,000 per month. Upon receipt of the Company’s EB-5 funding, the Company has agreed to pay RDC at least 50% of the funding received until the note is paid off in full. During 2012 the Company issued an additional 2 million 5-year warrants to RDC in consideration for reducing the Company’s monthly mortgage payments on the Ruby Mine property. Said warrants give RDC the right to purchase up to 2 million shares of the Company’s common stock at the exercise price of nine cents ($0.09) per share. Pursuant to a subsequent amendment dated March 28, 2013, RDC agreed to extend the maturity date of the note to December 30, 2015, with interest due on the note through 2014 at 6% per annum, and shall increase to 8% per annum on January 1, 2015. Pursuant to an amendment dated November 19, 2013, the Company issued an additional 4 million 5-year warrants at an exercise price of $0.04 in consideration for a modification of the payment terms of the note that amortized a $1M payment previously due on December 30, 2013. Pursuant to said amendments, mortgage payments are now $20,000 per month due on the 1st of each month through December 30, 2015, and an additional $40,000 per month due on the 20th day of each month through December 30, 2015. In addition, pursuant to the November 19, 2013 modification agreement, the Company has agreed to extend the expiration of all 18 million total outstanding warrants issued in aggregate to RDC since September 27, 2010, until December 30, 2018. As of December 31, 2014, the outstanding balance due on the note is $1,697,055.
Upon the close of the transaction and the transfer of title, as previously set forth in the purchase agreement, the Company acquired all of the real and personal property associated with the Ruby Gold Mine, all of the shares of Ruby Gold, Inc., a private California corporation, and $171,618 in reclamation bonds securing the permits at the Ruby Mine. Subsequent to the close of the transaction, Ruby Gold, Inc. became a wholly-owned subsidiary of North Bay Resources Inc. The Company has also assumed the reclamation liabilities on the Ruby Mine, for which the $171,618 in reclamation bonds are pledged. In addition, a $2,500 liability from a pre-existing shareholder loan that was outstanding as of the closing date has been paid and extinguished. As of December 31, 2014, interest accrued to the Reclamation Bond has increased its current value to $173,200.
It is expected that the aggregate total of warrants related to this transaction will be dilutive to shareholders by adding up to 18 million shares onto our outstanding share total in the event that all the warrants are exercised. The actual dilution is dependent upon whether or not any of the warrants are exercised prior to their expiration dates.
Operational funding for the Ruby project of up to $7.5 million was initially expected to be provided through the federal EB-5 program (“EB-5”). As of the date of this report, the EB-5 funding remains pending, the Company has not received any funding through the EB-5 program, and there is no guarantee that it will be completed. Accordingly, given the length of time this process has been ongoing, as of the date of this report the Company has elected to proceed on its own by funding the project through revenue from claim sales and joint-ventures, loans, and stock sales. If revenue is not sufficient we believe we can rely on loans and our equity credit line established by way of our Securities Purchase Agreement with Tangiers, LP to meet our obligations.
The Ruby purchase agreement includes the subsurface mineral rights to 2 patented claims comprising 435 acres, and 59 unpatented claims comprising approximately 1,877 acres. All of the unpatented claims in the property package are in good standing through August 31, 2015 with both the BLM in Sacramento and Sierra County in Downieville, CA. Annual BLM claim fees are currently $16,275 per year. Sierra County property taxes are currently $26,220 per year. As of December 31, 2014 and the date of this report, all BLM fees and Sierra County property taxes have been paid and are current. The Ruby Mine is permitted(3) for underground exploration, small scale development and small scale production.
(1) The sum total of the acreage of the unpatented claims is 2,063 acres. However, as some placer claims overlap lode claims, the true acreage of the unpatented claim area is known to be approximately 1,877 acres, for a total property extent of approximately 2,312 acres including the subsurface patented claim area.
(2) September 1, 2015 represents the “Good Until” date of the Ruby unpatented claims. In order to maintain a mining claim in California in good standing, the claim holder must perform annual work having a minimum cost of $100 or, alternatively, pay to the U.S. Bureau of Land Management (”BLM”) an annual maintenance fee of $155. Patented claims have no “Good Until” date, and instead are only subject to local and state taxes. As of September 1, 2014, $16,275 was paid to maintain the unpatented claims, and $26,220 was paid in property taxes to maintain the unpatented and patented claims in good standing.
(3) The current Plan of Operations, effective as of 2001, was formally renewed by United States Forest Service in February 2011. The Plan of Operations is now effective through December 31, 2018. The Waste Discharge Order must be reviewed and approved by the Water Quality Control Board prior to the commencement of mining operations, along with the Annual Fee for Waste Discharge Requirements for 2015, which was paid to the State Water Resources Control Board in February 2015. The Reclamation Permit has been renewed through April 2018. In September 2011 the Company filed an updated Reclamation Plan with Sierra County and the California Department of Conservation Office of Mine Reclamation (“OMR”). This updated Reclamation Plan was formally approved in December, 2011, and is effective through April, 2018. A Reclamation Bond of $173,200 is also in place.
The Ruby Mine
The Ruby Mine is an underground placer and lode mine located between Downieville and Forest City, in Sierra County, California. It is in the Alleghany-Downieville mining district, situated in the Sierra Nevada foothills south of the Yuba River.
In June 2010, the Company retained Mr. C. Gary Clifton, P. Geo., to visit the Ruby Mine in the Sierra County area of California to inspect its infrastructure and general conditions, assess its mineralization, and determine its potential to resume economic mining operations. Mr. Clifton holds degrees in Geology and Geochemistry from Macquarie University in Sydney, Australia, with post-graduate studies in Geochemistry at UC Berkeley and Oregon State University. As a Registered Professional Geologist, Mr. Clifton has over 40 years of experience with several major mining and petroleum companies, and as an independent consultant in mining exploration and exploration management, mineral property evaluation, and mining geology. He has conducted and managed exploration and evaluation programs for a wide variety of mineral commodities in the United States, Australia, and the Middle East. Mr. Clifton is currently President of Western Resource Group LLC.
Mr. Clifton has no family or other relationship with any past or present Company officer, director, or affiliate, and he has no family or other relationship with any past or present principal or affiliate of Ruby Development Company. The Company has not issued nor is it obligated to issue any of its stock in connection with Mr. Clifton’s engagement, and to the best of our knowledge Mr. Clifton does not own any shares of the Company.
The following information has been reviewed for technical accuracy by Mr. C. Gary Clifton, P. Geo.
Location, Access, Physiography, and Climate
The Ruby Mine is located in southwestern Sierra County, in the northern part of the Sierra Nevada Foothills, Northern California. It lies approximately 25 air miles northeast of Grass Valley/Nevada City and is serviced by paved roads. Highway 49 passes through Downieville in the northern part of the area. The Pliocene Ridge road crosses the central part of the area and eventually merges with the Henness Pass road. There are paved spur roads to the town of Alleghany and the village of Forest City. The remaining few miles to the various mine sites are accessed by high quality, well maintained gravel roads.
The property is situated in the Sierra Nevada physiographic province and lies along the western slope of the Sierra Nevada Mountain range, at elevations varying from 2,500 feet in the canyons to more than 6,000 feet on the ridge crests. Regional physiographic conditions generally consist of gently to moderately rolling terrain, and steep sided plateaus with deeply incised streams and rivers.
The annual temperature varies between 10 and 100 degrees Fahrenheit. The annual precipitation varies between 50 and 70 inches, which falls principally as snow during the months of January, February and March.
Regional native vegetation typically includes pine, cedar and fir trees, manzanita, black oak, brush and native grasses. Commercial stands of second growth pine and Douglas Fir are sufficient to satisfy mine timber requirements, and there is ample water available. Rock Creek is the nearest year-round stream and water source to the site, which crosses the northern portion of the property generally east to west. The north fork of Oregon Creek (a seasonal drainage) also crosses the southern portion of the property from northeast to southwest.
Property Description
The Ruby Property covers approximately 2,312 acres, consisting of the subsurface mineral rights of two patented claims totaling approximately 435 acres and 59 unpatented claims containing approximately 1,877 acres. The mine encompasses at least four distinct underground river channels and three known lode gold veins.
The Ruby property comprises two contiguous claim groups; the Ruby and the Golden Bear (aka Carson Camp), both of which include lode and placer claims. The Ruby claims combine three past-producing gold mines, which are the Ruby, the Bald Mountain Extension, and the Wisconsin. The Golden Bear claims comprise several former producing mines as well, which are the Golden Bear, the Ireland, and the Cincinnati. Collectively, the Ruby and Golden Bear claims have produced in excess of 350,000 ounces of gold in a mining history dating from the 1850's.
The property covers one and one-half miles of strike length along the Eastern Melones Fault, the major structure along which many of the gold deposits of the Mother Lode are localized. The property also encompasses an estimated 4 miles of partially mined and unmined auriferous Tertiary channels. The Ruby is located on the northern extension of the historic Mother Lode system, as evidenced in the map below that shows the location of the Alleghany-Downieville mining district in relation to the overall Mother Lode.
The most recently active mining areas include the Ruby Portal and Lawry Shaft locations. Ruby Development Company maintains a Plan of Operations (dated February 1, 2001) for its mining operations on public lands in the Tahoe National Forest, administered by the United States Forest Service (USFS). As of the date of this report, the Plan of Operations has been approved for renewal through December 31, 2018. Current access roads to the site include Henness Pass Road, Sierra County Road 401, Forest Service Road 401-2, and Forest Service Road 30, along with a variety of small unimproved dirt connector roads. The site is primarily surrounded by public national forest lands administered by the USFS, with privately owned parcels adjacent to the northwest and northeast property boundaries. The privately owned parcels are designated for use as rural land, timberland, or mineral land.
History of Exploration, Development, and Production
Gold was originally discovered in the Alleghany-Downieville district in 1849, during the early days of the California Gold Rush. Since that time the district has produced at least 2.35 million ounces of lode gold from the vein deposits and at least 440,000 ounces of placer gold from the Tertiary channel deposits (not including an unknown amount of production from placer workings around Alleghany). Much of this production occurred intermittently, during relatively short periods of intense mining activity, separated by longer periods of minimal production when political and/or economic factors were unfavorable.
The history of the Ruby claim area dates from the 1850's, when placer gold occurrences were followed upstream from the North Yuba River to the headwaters of Slug Canyon where rich deposits of gold were discovered in a Tertiary gravel deposit. By the 1860's several mines were developing the gravels of a buried river system within the boundaries of the present Ruby property at the headwaters of nearby Rock Creek. These mines included the the Golden Bear and the Guatemala. The Ruby portal was collared in December, 1880 to access the central portion of this rich river system. Between 1880 and 1889 the Ruby Mine produced 86,500 ounces of gold from three buried river channels.
In the early 1930's, C.L. Best, the co-founder of Caterpillar Tractor, acquired the Ruby Mine, and developed the Black channel. Best Mines produced an estimated 58,000 ounces of gold from the gravels before the government forced closure under War Production Board Order L-208 in 1942. Economic mining operations ceased at this time and have not resumed since. C.L. Best saved 123 nuggets of $100 value or greater for a personal collection. That collection is presently on display at the Los Angeles County Museum of Natural History.
After the Second World War, the cost of labor and supplies rose rapidly, while the price of gold remained frozen at $35 an ounce. The mine was not re-opened by Best and it was sold after Best's death in 1951. The Ruby Development Company acquired a lease on the Ruby Mine in 1959 and bought the property outright in 1966. Lessees intermittently worked the gravels of the Black channel from the Lawry shaft until the mid-1970's.
In the late 1970's the Ruby Mine was leased to Alhambra Mines of Sparks, Nevada. During that same period, the Golden Lion Mining Corp. attempted to drive a decline to access the Cincinnati channel, which had previously been discovered in the quartz workings of the Cincinnati vein.
The Brush Creek Mining and Development Company, Inc. (“Brush Creek”) acquired the Ruby in 1990. From 1990 through 1995, Brush Creek rehabilitated and re-timbered approximately one and one-quarter miles of horizontal haulage tunnel supports and a 210 foot vertical shaft for access and mine safety, constructed a new wash plant and quartz mill, built underground roads for use by diesel loaders, installed a hoist and constructed a new sixty-foot steel head frame over the Lawry Shaft at the Ruby Mine, installed a complete underground ventilation system and electrical system at the Lawry Shaft, constructed a new waste water treatment system for use at the mill site, and modified and enlarged the structures at the mill site. According to their SEC filings, Brush Creek’s total investment in the Ruby was $4,554,575 as of June 30, 1997, including $2,251,714 of development costs, and $1,975,525 of mining equipment. Production during this period was limited. From December 1992 until July 1993 an estimated 7,300 tons of mineralized material was mined, resulting in the recovery of approximately 200 ounces of gold. Brush Creek stated that these preliminary results were too small to be a reliable representative sample of the expected placer grades. In 1994, approximately 400 tons were mined from the Lawry channel, at an average grade of 0.2 ounces per ton. By 1995, mining operations were suspended, and except for limited periods of sporadic activity over the next few years, the mine was put on care and maintenance. Brush Creek briefly resumed operations in 1998, driving a development tunnel in the south Lawry Shaft workings. Due to low metal prices, the property was eventually forfeited and returned to the Ruby Development Company, who has kept the property and permits under care and maintenance from 1998 to 2011 when the property was acquired by North Bay.
Plant, Equipment, Permits, and Site Infrastructure
Site inspections conducted during June and July, 2010 by C. Gary Clifton, a certified professional geologist (P.Geo.) retained by the Company as an independent consulting geologist to inspect and assess the Ruby Mine, and by management in September, 2010, confirmed that the Ruby is in excellent condition, and has been well maintained despite having not been operation since 1998. The equipment currently on-site at the Ruby was mostly purchased in the period between 1990 and 1995 when the mine was last in operation, and was therefore between 15 and 20 years old at the time of the initial inspection. The equipment, including the wash plant and mill facilities, has been confirmed to be in good working order, though some minor upgrades are expected to be needed.
The equipment, fixed assets, and infrastructure in place include a 1,000 yard per day placer wash plant, 50-ton per day quartz mill, 6,000 feet of tracked haulage, and related support equipment needed for underground mining operations. A second exit, the Lawry Shaft, almost 2 miles from the main portal, can provide natural ventilation for much of the underground workings. Surface buildings and facilities include a lumber mill, machine shops, offices, and accommodations. The property also features an excellent system of roads, is accessible via paved highway from Reno or Sacramento, has abundant water and timber available for mining purposes, and has PG&E power available on-site.
Permits in place include a Plan of Operations, a Phase I Environmental Site Assessment, a Water Order, and a Reclamation Plan secured by over $173,200 in Reclamation Bonds. The current Plan of Operations, effective as of 2001, was formally renewed by United States Forest Service in February 2011. The Plan of Operations is now effective through December 31, 2018. The Waste Discharge Order must be reviewed and approved by the Water Quality Control Board prior to the commencement of mining operations, along with the Annual Fee for Waste Discharge Requirements for 2015, which was paid to the State Water Resources Control Board in February 2015. The Reclamation Permit has been renewed through April 2018. In September 2011 the Company filed an updated Reclamation Plan with Sierra County and the California Department of Conservation Office of Mine Reclamation (“OMR”). This updated Reclamation Plan was formally approved in December, 2011, and is effective through April, 2018. A Reclamation Bond of $173,200 is also in place.
Skilled underground hard-rock and placer miners with considerable experience in the local ground conditions reside in the area and will provide a valuable resource in the present and future exploitation of the Ruby.
Initial Geological Assessment Work
The Ruby Mine is an underground mine that is known to have produced over 350,000 ounces of gold since the 1850’s, but which currently has no known estimates of proven reserves.
Geological assessment work carried out by Mr. Gary Clifton P.Geo., during the summer of 2010, including extensive research to evaluate the resource maps and data from Brush Creek Mining’s operations in the 1990’s and Alhambra Mines in the early 1980’s, has identified 3.03 miles of unmined channel and 0.95 miles of partially mined channel available for mining using the existing infrastructure. The following table provides the estimates of each channel surveyed by Mr. Clifton in July, 2010. In compiling the data, the Pilot Channel is considered the northern extension of the Black Channel and the Mt. Vernon Channel is a tributary. In addition, the stretch of Black Channel between the Big Bend and the Lawry Shaft is designated as partially mined, as is one-half of the stretch of the same channel between the Lawry Shaft and the mined portion of the Pilot Channel at the northern property boundary. All measurements are in feet.
Additional channels as well as lode deposits in quartz veins are known to exist on the property. These will require additional exploration and no attempt has been made as of yet to estimate the amount of gold they may contain.
During the 2010 summer program, 35 samples were collected by Mr. Clifton from the Lawry Shaft workings and sent to American Assay Laboratories Inc. in Sparks, NV for fire assay analysis. The samples, each weighing approximately 1 kilogram, were collected at 10-foot intervals at the gravel-bedrock interface at 5 locations (A through E) within tunnels and crosscuts. At location C, samples C9 through C12 returned several high values, including 45.5 grams (1.45 ounces) and 15.05 grams (0.48 ounces) per metric ton (tonne) gold, as per the table below. This represents a 30-foot wide zone of placer gold-enriched sediments in which 3 of the 4 samples are highly anomalous. This zone is considered mining width. Having delineated a 30-foot wide zone with a limited 35-sample set, we believe this indicates that gold-rich gravels are relatively abundant, easily identified, and present in existing workings ready to be exploited.
Regional Geology
The geology of the region consists of Mesozoic and Paleozoic metavolcanic rock, Paleozoic Calaveras Formation rocks (phyllite, schist, with thin beds of metachert), and Silurian slate with subordinate chert, conglomerate and sandstone. The Mesozoic era occurred between approximately 65 and 248 million years before present (MYBP). The Paleozoic era occurred between approximately 248 and 543 MYBP. The Silurian period was part of the Paleozoic era, and occurred between 417 and 443 MYBP.
Local Geology
The Alleghany-Downieville gold mining district is situated in the northern pan of the Sierra Foothills Metamorphic Belt, to the west of the Sierra Nevada Batholith. The district forms the northern continuation of the Mother Lode System, a major, north-northwesterly trending metallogenic province that extends for a distance of 160 miles and has produced over 125 million ounces of gold.
Most of the gold mines within the Mother Lode System are localized along the Melones Fault, a steep, easterly dipping crustal-scale suture that extends from Mariposa County in the south to Plumas County in the north. This structure marks the boundary between several tectonic terrains. In the northern part of the foothills belt, the structure defines the contact of continentally derived sediments of the Paleozoic Shoo Fly Complex to the east, with generally younger oceanic and volcanic island arc rocks of the Western Assemblage to the west. In the south, the structure marks the boundary between the Calaveras Complex, an Upper Paleozoic sedimentary sequence of deep water, oceanic affinity to the east with rocks of the Western Assemblage to the west.
Geology of the Ruby Property
The Ruby Property covers one and one-half miles of strike length along the Eastern Melones Fault, the major structure along which many of the gold deposits of the Mother Lode are localized. The property also encompasses an estimated 4 miles of unmined auriferous Tertiary channels. The Ruby is considered part of the northern extension of the historic Mother Lode system.
The locus of the Melones Fault coincides with a discontinuous zone of intensely sheared and variably altered serpentinite, commonly associated with more massive gabbroic rocks. These rocks are believed to represent part of an ophiolite suite. At the latitude of the Alleghany-Downieville district, the Melones Fault zone is up to 4 miles wide. At this location, the fault zone is occupied by a serpentinite-hosted melange of ophiolitic rocks, blueschist to greenschist-grade oceanic sediments and mafic volcanics, as well as complexly deformed, amphibolite-grade Paleozoic rocks
Mineralization and Deposit Type
The primary mineralization at the Ruby is gold. The primary deposit type consists of gold-bearing Tertiary-age channels, as exemplified by the Bald Mountain and Bald Mountain Extension channels, both of which have been among the most prolific gold producers in the Alleghany-Downieville district. Younger intervolcanic channels also formed rich placer gold deposits where the younger river system eroded and redeposited the auriferous gravels of the older channels. Examples of this type of younger channel include the Black channel in the vicinity of the Big Bend in the Ruby Mine and the Deep Rock Creek channel, which reworked extensive stretches of the Bald Mountain channel.
Distinct concentrations of placer gold have also been associated with the existence of quartz gold deposits. Some of the most productive quartz gold deposits in this area were discovered in the bedrocks while mining the placer channels. The quartz veins in this region typically extend to thousands of feet in depth, and are noted for rich shoots often containing spectacular pockets of Gold-in-Quartz. The Ruby is known to contain quartz vein deposits, as exemplified by the Wolf Vein near the Bald Mountain Channel.
Ruby Mine Mining Plan
The Ruby mining plan anticipates that much of the first season will be engaged in determining the exact locations of the targeted channels with exploration drifting (tunneling) and establishing mining headings in these channels.
Prior to the start of mining operations, the initial startup work has concentrated on rehabilitating the Ruby tunnel, renovating the Ruby Mill, improving the infrastructure, and getting Ruby facilities and equipment into good working order. The Company began rehabilitation of the Ruby tunnel in October, 2011. The initial phase of this work was completed in the third quarter of 2013 with the restoration of natural air flow throughout the extent of the Ruby tunnel and the reopening of the tunnel for a full mile to restore access to the Black Channel and the Big Bend mining targets. Mill renovation has been completed, and the wash plant is fully operational as of the date of this report. As of December 31, 2014, construction and renovation costs directly related to the Ruby tunnel rehab and excluding acquisition, depreciation, and regulatory expenses totaled $2,790,393.
The Pilot and Mount Vernon Channel targets are projected to lie in the near vicinity of the existing Lawry Shaft workings. Active exploration tunneling ("drifting") with air-powered slushers and trackless loaders ("LHD's") is expected to be underway shortly after mining operations begin and the Lawry Shaft section of the mine is fully rehabilitated. The rehabilitation of the Lawry Shaft is anticipated to begin in Q2, 2015 at an estimated cost of $500,000 over a 10 month period.
Construction of the 1,500 foot Deep Rock Creek Project access tunnel can also begin once full mining operations commence. This tunnel will be a tracked haulageway. The rate of progress will be determined by the amount of time required to complete the maintenance program in the Ruby tunnel beyond the "Daylight Turn" where the Deep Rock Creek Access Tunnel begins. This maintenance will also be required prior to constructing the Big Bend Bypass Raise to the Black Channel workings. This maintenance work was completed in the third quarter of 2013. Construction of the Big Bend Bypass Raise is currently in progress as of the date of this registration statement. The Company has commenced bulk sampling operations in the White Channel section of the Ruby tunnel. On June 9, 2014, a drilling program commenced to locate new channels and mining targets identified from recent geological mapping and a gravity survey. This effort has proven successful, as at least one new channel has been verified as of the date of this report. The cost of the drilling program was approximately $56,000. As of the date of this report, an estimated start date or budget for the Deep Rock Creek Project access tunnel has not been determined.
The mining plan anticipates a "herring bone" drift pattern for exploitation of the channels. A central tunnel (known as a "drift") will be driven following the gut (deepest part) of the channel. This drift will be continued until the end of the channel is reached and the length of the resource has been defined. Regularly spaced crosscuts (known as "crosscut drifts") will be driven out on each side of the central drift to determine the width of the channel.
The material mined from these drifts will be washed in the placer plant. Careful records of the gold recovery will also provide a grade for the material "blocked out" in this process, thereby developing a proven resource to be mined in the production phase of the mining plan.
The Ruby Mine typically experiences considerable snow fall, and a decrease in activity is planned for during the winter months. It is expected that the Ruby will operate year-round once the operation is well established.
As of December 31, 2014 and the date of this report, operations at the Ruby are on hold for the winter season, and are expected to resume in Q2, 2015.
Operational Considerations
The southern working area, the Deep Rock Creek Project, is accessible by the Ruby Tunnel, which is equipped with 30 lb. rail and 4" Victaulic steel compressed air pipe. The northern area, the Lawry Shaft Project, will be mined by LHD's from the existing tunnel system.
On the north end, entry to the mine is through the Lawry Shaft which has a steel headframe and a complete hoist house and hoisting facilities for men and materials. There are two LHD's with 1 yd. buckets underground. There is a 40 hp. fan and a secondary ventilation fan with fan line as well as water and compressed air lines and electrical service underground. Electricity in this area is provided by PG&E and a 150 kw diesel generator providing backup power. A 250 cfm electric compressor located on the surface provides compressed air.
The south end of the mine is accessible by a portal. Electricity is provided by 250 kw and 55 kw diesel generators and compressed air by a 750 cfm diesel compressor. There is a 40 hp. ventilation fan located underground, electric and diesel trammers, ore cars and flat cars. The site has a shop with an electric overhead hoist on a track and various tools, mill buildings, a 4,500 gallon diesel tank with containment basin under cover, a 1,000 yard-per-day placer gravel recovery plant and a 50 ton hard rock quartz recovery plant.
The north and south ends of the mine are connected underground, which facilitates natural ventilation and provides an exit at both ends.
The north end has a 2 story bunkhouse which can provide accommodations, a trailer which can also be used for accommodations, and an office. The adjacent cook shack will accommodate several more people. There is a 40' by 70' steel shop building on a concrete slab, a 10,000 gallon double-walled diesel tank, and other buildings. Electricity in this area is provided by PG&E.
The property contains Douglas fir trees which can be used for mine timber. The Forest Service has marked trees for cutting, and there is a bandsaw lumber mill on the property. Several thousand board feet of milled mine timbers are currently onsite.
The property is serviced throughout by a system of good dirt roads and oiled roads, with paved roads to the property from Highway 49. The property has a great deal of flat and useable areas available, and there is ample working room around the shops and other buildings.
The mine has rock drills, slushers and tuggers, additional fans and pumps, both air and electric powered, and much miscellaneous equipment, tools, and supplies. The mine also has a Peterbilt water truck, International flatbed truck, Oshkosh 4x4 dump truck, and Hyster equipment trailer. There is a large dump facility as well as ponds for water storage and ample process water that exits from the Ruby Tunnel.
Description of the Mining Process
Although the grades encountered in the ancient river channels of the Alleghany District are extremely high relative to most placer deposits elsewhere in the world, underground mining costs are also much higher than the cost of open pit or dredge methods employed in most present-day placer operations. This cost reality, together with the erratic distribution of the gold, requires that selective mining methods based on strict grade control be utilized in order to achieve a profitable operation.
A cost effective underground mining operation is accomplished by a two-phase process:
(a) Exploration occurs on the advance by drifting upstream or downstream along the axis of the channel, with crosscuts driven every fifty to one hundred feet. The muck from these workings is slushed to passes that lead to the main haulage level within the bedrock below the channels. This is accompanied by face and rib sampling and by bulk testing of the muck from the headings. Each round is quantitatively analyzed to map out the grade distribution of the gold. This work is followed by;
(b) Selective mining (“breasting”) during the retreat, using the drift as the main haulage-way and leaving pillars of lower grade material. This is facilitated by careful mine planning based on the geometry of the channel and the grade distribution ascertained from the exploration phase.
Description of the Recovery Process
The mined gravel (“muck”) is transported from the mine along the tracked haulageway to the mill and dumped into the ore bin directly above the gravity separation washing plant. The wash plant is a closed-circuit system which recycles the wash water. The gravel is scraped onto a feed belt which elevates and dumps the material into the scrubber (trommel -- a large, inclined metal cylinder). Water is added and the scrubber is rotated in a clockwise direction at twelve revolutions per minute to thoroughly wash the gravel. Retaining rings inside the scrubber catch the larger gold nuggets. The washed gravel is discharged through slots in the final section of the scrubber that serve as a sizing screen. All plus 3/4 inch material is rejected to the coarse material belt which moves the reject gravel to the stacker belt for transport.
The remaining minus 3/4 inch material and excess water falls onto the walking bottom sluice box. This sluice box is a gravity separation device which utilizes Hungarian riffles mounted on a moving rubber belt to trap all high specific gravity material. The riffle bed rotates up the grade through the sized material and water, cycling completely every twenty minutes while continually dumping the heavy concentrate into the live bottom sluice box.
All lighter material not trapped in the Hungarian riffles is washed off the discharge end of the walking bottom sluice box and over a 1/8 inch vibrating dewatering screen. The dry plus 1/8 inch, minus 3/4 inch material is vibrated onto a skid plate that loads directly onto the stacker belt for transport to the waste dump. The minus 1/8 inch material and water is discharged into the dewatering sand screw.
The live bottom sluice box utilizes a cam-operated jigging action within its bed to further concentrate, grade and separate all gold and other high specific gravity material. The trapped gold and heavy concentrate is cleaned from the box once a day and transported to the gold room for final cleanup.
The lighter material not concentrated within the bed is washed out of the live bottom sluice box with the excess water and discharged into the dewatering sand screw. The coarser material is dried by the dewatering sand screw and dumped onto the stacker belt. The finer waste material is discharged with the wash water to the primary settling pond. The wash water continues to the second settling pond from which it is pumped back to the scrubber at the head of the system. Water discharging from the tunnel is piped to the head of the system by gravity as needed for make up water.
A backhoe is used as required to bail the fine settled material from the primary settling pond to dry before transport to the waste dump.
QA/QC Protocols
The Company has not determined its QA/QC protocols as a matter of policy, and relies on its joint venture partners and outside consultants to provide these protocols on a project-specific basis.
Canadian Properties
Below is a description of the properties (or mining/mineral/placer claims) currently owned by the Company which are currently under contract for exploration and development with joint-venture partners, previously under contract with joint-venture partners, or else prospective for future joint-ventures. Our mining claims convey the mineral or placer rights for mining-related purposes only, and while our rights allow us to use the surface of a claim for mining and exploration activities, our claims do not convey any other surface, residential or recreational rights to the Company. Additionally, our right to extraction is not absolute, as any mechanized extraction work on claims in BC requires additional permits and possibly conversion of our claims to mining leases, the approval of which is not guaranteed.
For the year ended December 31, 2014, the Company paid the Province of British Columbia an aggregate of $39,520 USD in registration and claim maintenance fees to maintain our properties in good standing. For the year ended December 31, 2013, these fees totaled $35,028 USD. The increase is due to an increase in BC claim fees.
The Company actively manages its claims on a daily basis through the British Columbia MTO system, and at times elects to reduce costs by paying annual fees incrementally as permitted by BC regulations, allowing non-strategic claims to lapse, and occasionally reducing the aggregate size of a particular claim area or letting it lapse altogether to further reduce carrying costs. Therefore, the costs stated below to maintain a property in good standing is the maximum required on an annualized basis, and in many instances the actual realized expense may be less than indicated below.
Unless otherwise noted, all dollar amounts related to claim fees paid to the Province of British Columbia are in Canadian dollars (CDN).
Principal Canadian Properties
The following table shows the Company’s principal target properties in British Columbia, Canada, which in aggregate comprise 110 claims that cover 28,961 acres (11,725 hectares). The Company owns additional claims throughout British Columbia, but most of these others have not as yet been aggregated into identifiable properties, are currently not considered material, or are expected to expire on their termination dates and no longer held. As of December 31, 2014, our total holdings are 184 claims encompassing 30,330 acres (12,279 hectares). This is a snapshot in time, and the number may be quite different six months or one year from now. The Company has an active exploration program in place, which on a daily basis will add new claims, drop or reduce the size of others, and maintain the rest. All of our claims are under constant review, and may be decreased or further increased at any time, depending on the re-evaluation of our present holdings, and the availability of new opportunities in the future as other claims of merit become available for acquisition.
Properties are labeled as such when individual claims that are either contiguous with each other or in close proximity can be aggregated and identified with a known mineral or placer resource. As of December 31, 2014, the total cash cost to acquire the properties listed below is $16,311, consisting of $6,436 in staking fees paid to the Province of British Columbia, and $9,875 paid in 2006 to an individual to acquire the Monte Cristo. If every claim is maintained for the next year, the projected expense would be a minimum of $69,815, less $27,428 in exploration credits applied to the claims during 2014 for FY 2015, for a total of $42,387. In keeping with Company practices, some non-strategic claims may be allowed to lapse, and possibly re-staked afterwards, resulting in a considerable saving from the maximum projected annualized cost. As well, any of these properties that become the subject of options or joint-ventures with other companies will see their projected maintenance costs transferred to the prospective partner company for the duration of the contract. The table below shows the cash acquisition cost of each property and the annualized projected cost (or carrying cost) of maintaining the properties in good standing. All dollar amounts in this table are expressed in Canadian dollars, and the actual expense to the Company in terms of US dollars, when actually paid, can be as much as 10% lower or higher, depending on the foreign currency exchange rate on the day any payment is recorded.
*With the exception of the Monte Cristo which was acquired from another party, as described below, all of the Company’s properties in British Columbia were acquired as a result of the direct staking of located claims by Company personnel and payment of the statutory registration fees to the Province of British Columbia.
** If no work is performed by the anniversary date due, a claim may be maintained in good standing by paying a Cash In Lieu of Work Fee (“CIL”) to the Ministry of Mines equal to twice the annual minimum work requirement.
*** Exploration expenditures are applied to the claims when incurred to meet the annual work requirement and extend the good-until date of the claims for as much as 10 years into the future.
Prior to July 1, 2012, the registration fee for staking new claims in British Columbia was $0.40 per hectare for a mineral claim, and $2.00 per hectare for a placer claim. On July 1, 2012, registration fees for newly-staked claims were raised to $1.75 per hectare for a mineral claim, and $5.00 per hectare for a placer claim. The initial term of any claim staked in British Columbia is one year. As of July 1, 2012, this term may be extended for up to 10 years at a time by filing a statement of work showing minimum expenditures on a mineral claim of $5 per hectare per year for the first 2 years, $10 per hectare per year for years 3 and 4, $15 per hectare per year for years 5 and 6, and $20 per hectare per year for each year thereafter. For a placer claim, the minimum expenditure is $20 per hectare. If work is not performed on the subject claims, the registrant can pay a cash-in-lieu fee (“CIL”) to British Columbia equal to twice the minimum work expenditure due to maintain the claim in good standing.
The Company owns a 100% undivided interest in the mineral rights underlying these properties, the surface of which is owned, in most instances, by the Province of British Columbia, also known as Crown Land. Our registered claims convey to us the mineral rights for mining-related purposes only, and while our rights allow us to use the surface of a mineral claim for mining and exploration activities, our claims do not convey any residential or recreational rights to the Company.
All of the properties described below are without known proven or probable reserves, and are exploratory in nature.
Canadian Property Descriptions
Coronation Gold is located near Memphis Creek, 6 kilometres northeast of Slocan in southeastern British Columbia. The property covers 604 hectares (1,493 acres and includes five other past-producing mines; the Colorado, the Homestake, the V&M, the Sapphire, and the Senator mines.
British Columbia government records show that the primary mineralization on the Coronation claims consists of gold, silver, zinc, and lead. Past-production records on file in British Columbia for the Colorado, Homestake, V&M, and Senator mines are as follows:
Colorado: Intermittent mining for the periods 1904 to 1915 and 1967 to 1969 produced a total of 67 tonnes, yielding 2188 grams per tonne silver, 2.5 per cent lead, and 5.6 per cent zinc (Source: BC MINFILE 082FNW161).
Homestake: At the Homestake (formerly known as the Hamilton), intermittent production from 1903 to 1915 totaled 33 tonnes of ore, yielding 115,299 grams of silver, 93 grams of gold and 1921 kilograms of lead. Production as the Homestake from 1968 to 1971 totaled 330 tonnes, yielding 861,491 grams of silver, 7370 grams of gold, 440 kilograms of lead and 503 kilograms of zinc (Source: BC MINFILE 082FNW213).
V&M: At the V&M mine, which includes the Get There Eli vein, 11 tonnes ore shipped in 1901 is documented as yielding 124 grams of gold and 21,554 grams of silver. Production of about 9 tonnes of ore in 1938 from the Get There Eli yielded 124 grams of gold and 15,925 grams of silver. 3 tonnes of ore mined in 1955 from the V&M yielded 93 grams of gold, 12,338 grams of silver, 23 kilograms of lead and 8 kilograms of zinc. In 1988, Yukon Minerals Corporation conducted soil and rock sampling, and geological mapping in the area. A sample from the Get-There-Eli adit assayed 16.8 grams per tonne gold and 549 grams per tonne silver over 0.5 metre on a quartz-pyrite vein (Source: BC MINFILE 082FNW191)
Senator: The Senator mine, which includes the Midnight vein, produced 20 tonnes of ore in 1906 and 1907, yielding 43,420 grams of silver and 436 grams of gold. In 1939 and 1940, production totaled 13 tonnes of ore, yielding 187 grams of gold and 17,947 grams of silver. In 1988, Yukon Minerals Corporation conducted soil and rock sampling, and geological mapping in the area. A sample from the Senator adit assayed 6.1 grams per tonne gold and 1080 grams per tonne silver over 0.3 metre on a quartz-pyrite vein (Source: BC MINFILE 082FNW164).
The Coronation was the subject of a joint-venture with Lincoln Resources Inc. (“Lincoln”), a private Nevada corporation from August 6, 2009, until October 6, 2011, when it was terminated.
In July 2012 the Company conducted an exploration program at Coronation Gold under the supervision of Mr. Dan Oancea, P.Geo. Prospecting, sampling and a short geophysical survey were undertaken over two prospective parts of the property. Samples were collected from mineralized host rocks and vein materials. Seven of these samples were sent to ALS Chemex Labs in Vancouver for analysis, and the most significant assays have been reported as follows:
·
C05 (0.36 kg sample): 1.53 g/t gold, and 265 g/t silver;
·
C07 (0.10 kg sample): 25.9 grams g/t gold, and 2,590 g/t per tonne silver;
·
C08 (0.26 kg sample): 17.45 g/t gold, and 479 g/t per tonne silver.
The Company considers these results to be entirely consistent with previous assessments as well as the historical ore grades from the 6 past-producing mines on the property, all of which are in close proximity. Accordingly, we believe Coronation Gold to be a property of merit that justifies further follow up work. We intend to engage a new joint-venture partner to fund continued exploration. There is no guarantee the Company will be successful in this effort.
Fraser River Project is located along the Fraser River, 3 kilometres northwest of the village of Lytton in south-central British Columbia. The property covers 413 hectares (1,020 acres) on both sides of an area known as the Van Winkle Bar. As documented in British Columbia Open File 1986-7 and BC MINFILE 092ISW078, platinum and iridium are known to occur in the black sands of Van Winkle Bar.
In February 2009, the Company through our then-prospective joint venture partner, Mr. Bill Morgan, discovered visible gold during the first phase of test excavations 400 metres northwest of the Van Winkle Bar along an old river channel. Prior to this there were no substantive indications of gold mineralization in the Fraser River deposit.
One cubic yard of material (the approximate equivalent of 2 metric tons) was excavated, processed, reduced to 750 grams of concentrate, and divided into three 250 gram (0.25 kg) samples, These samples were sent to Acme Analytical Laboratories Ltd. in Vancouver, BC for analysis. Acme Analytical Laboratories Ltd., an ISO 9001:2000 company, follows a strict regime of internal Quality Assurance/Quality Control (QA/QC) protocols, including blanks, duplicates, and standard reference materials inserted in the sequences of client samples to provide a measure of background noise, accuracy and precision. The assay results showed the concentrate samples averaged 564 grams per tonne gold and 4.45 grams per tonne platinum, as per the following table:
Subsequent to the completion of the initial test phase, an outreach to the local Lytton First Nations council was rebuffed. Mr. Morgan subsequently withdrew from the project, and further work was suspended. Any further work is contingent on the approval of the Lytton First Nations by way of treaty agreements with the Province of British Columbia.
In October 2011, the Company signed a Memorandum of Understanding with PWC to engage in a joint-venture on the Company’s Fraser River Platinum project. Under the terms of the Memorandum of Understanding, a definitive agreement will be signed within 60 days of formal permit approval by the British Columbia Ministry of Mines and the local First Nations governments. On June 24, 2012, a mining permit was issued by the Ministry of Mines, and operations were initiated but a definitive agreement was never signed with PWC, and the Company continues to control 100% of the property.
During the first week of March, 2012, an exploration and soil sampling program on the Fraser River property was conducted under the supervision of Ms. Agathe Bernard, B.Sc. to further block out and assess the deposit area. The sampling occurred at the margins along a boulder area that runs north to south, with each sample consisting of 0.3 cubic yards of material. The samples were collected and shipped to ALS Labs in Vancouver for analysis, and the assay results received from the first 7 samples analyzed were as follows:
The Company notes that these samples were all unconcentrated, consisting only of raw in-place bank material. As such, these raw samples represent what would be expected from one bank cubic yard of gravel.
Pursuant to the issuance of a mining permit on June 24, 2012, the Company began operations at the Fraser River Project on October 23, 2012, to begin the excavation of test pits. Operations were suspended for the winter in December, 2012.
During 2013, the JV with PWC was terminated and the Company executed a definitive joint-venture agreement for mining operations at the Fraser River Project with Solid Holdings Ltd. (“Solid”), a private company domiciled in British Columbia and based in Houston, BC. The terms of the agreement call for Solid to provide all equipment, personnel, and related expenditures required to initiate and sustain mining operations at the Fraser River Project JV. The Company will be responsible for maintaining the property in good standing and securing the permits required for mining operations to proceed. The Company will retain 100% ownership of the property, and will be paid a 20% net smelter royalty (“NSR”) on all metals recovered from operations, with Solid retaining 100% of the net profits following payment of the aforementioned NSR. Solid will be deemed the project operator, and will be responsible for the day-to-day operations.
A new permit was subsequently applied for and was issued in July 2013. Operations are currently on hold pending completion of a Heritage Impact Assessment requested by the Province of British Columbia. This survey is expected to be completed in Q2 2014 at which time operations are expected to resume. There is no guarantee that mining operations at the Fraser River Project will be successful.
The Gold Hill Project is located due west of the village of Salmo in southeastern British Columbia, and presently covers 1,920 hectares.
With the exception of patented claims known as Crown Grants shown on the map below, the Company owns a 100% undivided interest in the mineral rights underlying the property, the surface of which is owned by the Province of British Columbia, also known as Crown Land. The green areas on the claims map are the patented claims (Crown Grants) that are owned by other parties and not part of the property.
The property is known to contain gold and silver mineralization as evidenced from the production records from the past-producing Gold Hill mine. Production records at the Gold Hill mine show a total of 19 tonnes of ore were mined in 1932, 1934, and 1942 from which 560 grams of gold and 1,027 grams of silver were recovered (Source: MINFILE 082FSW204).
In 2008, the Company entered into a joint-venture agreement with Hidalgo Mining International Inc. ("Hidalgo") to explore and develop the Gold Hill Project. This joint venture was terminated in October 2009.
The Company has no plans at the present time to explore the property independently, and intends to engage a new joint-venture partner to fund the project. There is no guarantee the Company will be successful in this effort.
Bouleau Creek Gold is a road-accessible property covering 1,900 hectares and is located 26 kilometres west of Vernon in southeastern British Columbia.
With the exception of tenures 578838 and 579151, the Bouleau Creek Property was acquired by the direct staking of claims by the Company and payment of the required registration fees to the Province of British Columbia. Tenures 578838 and 579151 were gifted to the Company by Speebo, Inc., a private company controlled by our Chief Executive Officer, Perry Leopold.
As documented in British Columbia MINFILE 082LSW069, Bouleau Creek features gold and silver mineralization over an area of approximately 1,000 by 600 metres. The northern portion of the property above Bouleau Creek includes the Siwash prospect, which is documented in BC MINFILE 082LSW046 as an area of gold and silver mineralization that extends over an area measuring 3,000 by 750 metres.
In October 2011, a Pilot HMC (“Heavy Mineral Concentrates”) Geochemical program of the Bouleau Creek Gold property was conducted on behalf of the Company by Billiken Gold Ltd of Enderby, BC. Over 2300 pounds of sample material were collected, and subsequently processed and cataloged into 36 samples. The samples were sent to ALS Chemex in Vancouver for analysis, who reported the following assay results:
*All of the samples were analyzed by conventional fire assay (Au-AA23), with the exception of sample NB-60. Due to the presence of visible gold, a metallic screen assay (Au-SCR21) was performed on sample NB-60, where the final prepared pulp is passed through a 100 micron (Tyler 150 mesh) stainless steel screen to separate the oversize fractions. Any +100 micron material remaining on the screen is retained and analyzed in its entirety by fire assay with gravimetric finish and reported as the Au(+)fraction result, which for sample NB-60 was reported as 95.6 grams per tonne gold. The Au(-)fraction (minus the oversize fractions) assayed 0.24 g/t gold, for a total of 0.77 g/t gold when all fractions were combined and averaged. Excluding the nugget effect from sample NB-60, the average fire assay of all 36 samples came in at 0.37 g/t gold.
A follow up HMC program in 2013 resulted in an expansion and further delineation of the alteration zone found in 2011, and the discovery of a completely new and previously undiscovered target area about 400 metres west of where sample NB-60 was taken. At least 5 samples (NB-106, NB-107, NB-126, NB-137, and NB-138) confirmed and further delineated the presence of highly anomalous gold particles in the soil upslope from both NB-60 and the large alteration zone discovered during the initial HMC program in 2011. The 2013 HMC project produced assays as high as 9.75 g/t (sample NB-137) from the original target area. New and very positive results downslope from the newly discovered alteration zone, about 400m west and upslope from NB-60, produced high gold values from three samples; NB-126 (8.0 g/t), NB-163 (2.29 g/t), and NB-164 (2.53 g/t). These samples were all taken very close together and point to this new target area upslope. Further sampling is planned for 2014 in an effort to locate the origin of this gold dispersal plume. The samples from the 2013 program were sent to ALS Chemex in Vancouver for analysis, who reported the following assay results:
On July 15, 2014, the Company executed a mineral property option agreement with Ximen Mining Corp. ("Ximen"), a Canadian issuer listed on the TSX Venture Exchange, pursuant to which Ximen may earn up to a 100% interest in the Registrant's “Brett West” and “Bouleau Creek” mineral claims (the “Brett West Claims”) in southeastern British Columbia. Under the terms of Agreement, Ximen may earn up to a 100% interest in the Brett West Claims by making aggregate payments to North Bay of USD $600,000, consisting of $300,000 in cash and issuing $300,000 in shares of Ximen common stock. Of the aggregate payments, $100,000 in cash and $100,000 in stock are due upon receipt of regulatory acceptance of the agreement by the TSX Venture Exchange, and equal payments of $50,000 cash and $50,000 in shares of Ximen stock are each due upon the 1st, 2nd, 3rd, and 4th 6-month anniversaries of the Agreement. This regulatory approval has been received, and the initial consideration has been paid, including 217,391 shares of Ximen common stock at a market value on issuance of $0.46 per share.
The Tulameen Platinum Project covers 231 hectares (571 acres) and is located along the Tulameen River in the Cascade Mountains of southwestern British Columbia, approximately 150 kilometres northeast of Vancouver.
As documented in BC MINFILE 092HNE128, this occurrence is hosted in the dunite-rich core of the Early Jurassic Tulameen Ultramafic Complex, a zoned Alaskan-type intrusive complex. Mineralization occurs in a serpentine breccia zone containing fragments of dunite/peridotite cemented by a matrix of serpentine. The zone is 180 metres long, up to 155 metres wide and lies mostly north of the river, on either side of the creek. Platinum occurs in elevated values in the breccia and in the surrounding dunite/peridotite.
In 2013 the Company undertook a prospecting survey designed as a reconnaissance study of the main rock types, mineralization, and of the mineral potential of the Tulameen ultramafic rocks. Assays returned values in line with the ones obtained by previous explorationists evidenced in the British Columbia MINFILE reports. Top values were 0.54 g/t platinum, 0.18 g/t gold, 0.195% copper, 0.138% nickel, 15.40% iron and 20.3% chromium. The samples were analyzed by ALS Chemex in Vancouver, as follows:
The 2013 program also revealed that the PGM mineralization hosted in the dunite is accompanied by olivine, an industrial mineral. Among its many uses, olivine is presently considered to have a strategic use in carbon dioxide (CO2) sequestration. It is therefore believed that the olivine industrial mineral potential of the project might be significant. Mining of the dunite rocks for olivine industrial mineral is believed to have a greater potential than mining for precious and base metals alone. The potential for mineral sequestration of carbon dioxide of the Tulameen dunite rocks could further improve the economics of a possible olivine mining project.
The 2013 survey concluded the mining of the olivine rich core of the Tulameen Ultramafic Complex has to be envisioned as a possible open pit mining operation that would include on-site processing of the rock (crushing, grinding, flotation and/or gravity concentration) as this could be the only viable solution for moving the project forward. The main product could be represented by olivine industrial mineral, while by-products could be represented by metals (PGM, chromite, magnetite). The tailings could be marketed for their CO2 sequestration potential. Drilling of the potentially economic zones has to be undertaken as a next step which is deemed necessary in understanding the characteristics of the unaltered dunite rocks and associated mineralization. If successful, mineral resources and reserves could be estimated and used in a Preliminary Economic Assessment (PEA) of the olivine-PGM deposit.
The Company is presently considering whether to further explore the property independently, or to engage a joint-venture partner to fund the project. There is no guarantee the Company will be successful in either of these efforts.
The Rachel Property is located approximately 17 kilometres northwest of the village Salmo in southeastern British Columbia, and covers 337 hectares (832 acres).
As documented in British Columbia government records, the Rachel is known to contain gold, silver and lead mineralization. In 1980, Kimberley Gold Mines removed 14 tonnes of ore from the adit, yielding an average assay of 66.64 grams per tonne gold, 271.5 grams per tonne silver, and 9.42 per cent lead (Source: MINFILE 082FSW299).
The Company has no plans at the present time to explore the property independently, and intends to engage a joint-venture partner to fund the project. There is no guarantee the Company will be successful in this effort.
The Monte Cristo Property is located in a wide section of the Lillooet River Valley, approximately 31 kilometers northwest of the north end of Harrison Lake in south-central British Columbia. It covers 333 hectares (820 acres).
The Company owns a 100% undivided interest in the placer rights underlying the property, the surface of which is owned by the Province of British Columbia, also known as Crown Land. Subsequent to the acquisition, British Columbia created a reserve that does not allow any further staking of placer claims. However, as our claims were pre-existing, our placer rights have been grandfathered and remain valid for as long as we continue to maintain the property in good standing. The property is also adjacent to an Indian reservation, and any exploration or mining work will require the approval of the local First Nations council.
The Monte Cristo Property was acquired in August 2006 by way of purchase from a private individual. Consideration paid was $9,750 USD cash and 130,000 shares of common stock, plus a 2% NSR.
As documented in BC MINFILEs 092GNE019 and 092GNE013, the mineralization of the property consists of precious metal bearing sands that cover a 400 to 800 meter wide section of the Lillooet River valley. These post-Pleistocene sands contain gold and platinum in submicron sized particles. In 1970, a 1.4 kilogram sample of sand, taken at least a meter below surface, assayed 2.47 grams per tonne gold, 4.80 grams per tonne silver, 2.77 grams per tonne platinum, and 2.71 grams per tonne palladium.
On February 14, 2012, an exploration and sampling program on the Monte Cristo property was conducted under the supervision of Ms. Agathe Bernard, B.Sc.. The initial goal of the work program was to verify the presence of submicron size metals in the sand material along the Lillooet River, which was previously indicated by work conducted in 1970 by G.L. Kirwin, B.Sc., and J.M. Ashton, P.Eng., as documented in BC Assessment Report 2589. Instead, the crew unexpectedly found an abundance of visible gold, with some particles as large as one millimeter.
The first 17 samples of black sand were concentrated on site using a Keen concentrator and reduced in volume by approximately 20 to 1000 times to concentrate the fine part of the sample. The concentration was supervised by Ms. Bernard, and the samples were sent to ALS Labs in Vancouver for analysis. The assay results are reported as follows:
* NSS is non-sufficient sample size
** As the samples were concentrated, only the very fine and heavy particulate were analyzed. This magnifies the values from real concentration 20 to 1000 times. The estimated diluted values indicate what would be expected from a raw bank cubic yard of material prior to concentration processing.
In January 2012, prior to the above described work program, the Company amended its aforementioned Memorandum of Understanding with PWC to include a joint-venture on the Monte Cristo property. As of the date of this prospectus, a definitive agreement has not yet been executed. Under the terms of the Memorandum of Understanding, a definitive agreement will be signed within 60 days of formal permit approval by the British Columbia Ministry of Mines and the local First Nations governments. Said permits have been applied for, but as of the date of this prospectus these milestones have not yet been achieved, and there is no guarantee that such approvals will be forthcoming, or that the joint-venture will be successful.
The Mt. Washington/Connie Hill Property is located on Vancouver Island, approximately 15 kilometres northwest of Courtenay in southwestern British Columbia, and presently covers 2,796 contiguous hectares (6,906 acres). The property extends from Constitution Hill and Wolf Lake southwest towards Mount Washington, and includes several zones of mineralization for 10 kilometres along Murex Creek to Mt. Washington, including the Lupus, Ideal, Murex, Oyster, and the southern portion of the Domineer deposits at Mount Washington.
As documented in British Columbia government records, the property is known to contain gold, silver zinc, copper, and lead mineralization. A sample of the zone material taken from the Lupus showing across 0.90 metres assayed 4.42 grams per tonne gold, 20.57 grams per tonne silver, 0.60% zinc, 0.15% copper, 1.59% lead and 0.01% arsenic (Source: MINFILE 092F 308).
The Murex zone is on the northeast slope of Mt. Washington, and represents an area of mineralization covering approximately 700 by 700 metres, with an estimated depth of 175 metres. It has been previously tested by a number of diamond-drill holes by several previous operators, with a 4 metre section of core assaying 4.08 per cent copper, 32.91 grams per tonne silver and 6.31 grams per tonne gold. A total of five zones have been identified within the Murex deposit, labeled Zones A, B, C, D, and E. Drilling on the Murex by Noranda in 1988 yielded significant intercepts, as follows (Sources: MINFILE 092F 206, BC Assessment Report 30010):
·
NMX-88-17 yielded 0.25m. @ 3.7 g/t gold, 46 g/t silver and 9.7% copper from 196.5 to 197.21 m. from a massive sulphide vein in Zone A
·
NMX-89-25 yielded 4.0 m. @ 6.5 g/t gold, 30 g/t silver and 4.1% copper from 29 to 33m., including: 1.0 m. @ 21 g/t gold, 71 g/t silver and 9.3% copper from 29 to 30 m. in a massive sulphide vein in basalt with pyrrhotite, chalcopyrite and pyrite
·
NMX-89-26 yielded 6.5 m. @ 0.23 g/t gold, 7.3 g/t silver and 1.1% copper from 16.2 to 22.7 m. in a siliceous basaltic breccia with pyrrhotite and chalcopyrite
The Oyster zone is situated approximately 3 km north of Mt. Washington. Drilling and sampling documented in a 2008 NI 43-101 Technical Report by the previous operator, Bluerock Resources, documents a 43 centimetre section of core that assayed 2.78 grams per tonne gold, 6.86 grams per tonne silver, and 0.07% copper (Sources: MINFILE 092F 365, BC Assessment Report 30010).
In 2013 the Company engaged Mr. Jacques Houle, P.Eng., to undertake a comprehensive study of the main rock types, mineralization and of the mineral potential of the Mount Washington property. This fieldwork included select outcrop grab sampling with highlights achieved at the following locations:
·
Oyster Breccia Area - 3 samples taken from three separate known mineralized sites documented in ARIS report 17193 yielded up to 1.39 g/t gold.
·
Lupus/Wolf Lake Area - 2 samples taken from three separate known mineralized sites documented in ARIS reports 27430 and 28405 yielded up to 16.4 g/t gold and 1.18% copper in 2 different samples.
·
Murex Breccia Area - 4 samples taken from four separate known mineralized sites documented in ARIS report 18391 and 7 select outcrop grab samples taken from areas of recently exposed or previously undocumented mineralized sites yielded up to 3.55 g/t gold, 0.749% copper and 0.026% molybdenum in 2 different samples.
The samples were analyzed by AGAT Laboratories in Ontario, as follows:
The Company is presently considering whether to further explore the property independently, or to engage a joint-venture partner to fund the project. There is no guarantee the Company will be successful in either of these efforts.
The Argo Gold Property is located 10 kilometres west of the south end of Tatlayako Lake, approximately 168 miles northwest of Vancouver, British Columbia. It covers 262 hectares (647 acres) and includes ten reverted crown grants.
The mineralized area of economic interest covers several square kilometres immediately south of Ottarasko Creek. The strike length is estimated as being at least 3 kilometres long, and is up to 300 metres in width. The target prospects are known as the Langara, the Standard, and the Argo.
As documented in British Columbia government records, the Argo property is known to contain gold and silver mineralization. On the Standard occurrence, mineralization is traceable for 75 metres over a width of 1 to 2 metres, with assays at 15 grams per tonne gold and 20.6 grams per tonne silver over 2 metres (Source: BC MINFILE 092N 037).
The Company has no plans at the present time to explore the property independently, and intends to engage a joint-venture partner to fund the project. There is no guarantee the Company will be successful in this effort.
The Loughborough Gold Property is located on the east side of Loughborough Inlet, approximately 140 miles northwest of Vancouver, British Columbia, and covers 288 hectares (711 acres).
The property is known to contain gold, silver, and copper mineralization. Production records at the past-producing Loughborough Gold mine from 1935 to 1939 show that 114 ounces of gold, 457 ounces of silver, and 185 pounds of copper were produced from 122 tons mined and milled (Source: MINFILE 092K 048).
The Company has no plans at the present time to explore the property independently, and intends to engage a joint-venture partner to fund the project. There is no guarantee the Company will be successful in this effort.
The Lynx Gold Property covers 622 hectares (1,536 acres) and is located approximately 75 miles southeast of Vernon in southeastern British Columbia.
The property is known to contain gold and silver mineralization. One drill intersection of the vein assayed 3.77 grams per tonne gold over 0.6 metres. Another intersection assayed 28.52 grams per tonne gold, 13.4 grams per tonne silver and 0.01 per cent copper across 1.07 metres (Source: MINFILE 082LSE055).
The Company has no plans at the present time to explore the property independently, and intends to engage a joint-venture partner to fund the project. There is no guarantee the Company will be successful in this effort.
Cherry Gold is a road-accessible property that covers 1,138 hectares (2,811 acres) located 9 kilometres east of Cherryville in southeastern British Columbia.
The property is known to contain gold, silver, and lead mineralization, as documented in BC MINFILE 082LSE063.
The Company has no plans at the present time to explore the property independently, and intends to engage a joint-venture partner to fund the project. There is no guarantee the Company will be successful in this effort.
Pine River Vanadium covers 330 hectares (815 acres) and is located in the Pine River Valley of north-central British Columbia, approximately 700 kilometres northeast of Vancouver and about 600 kilometres northwest of Edmonton, Alberta. While its location is remote, the property has excellent infrastructure with regard to both transportation and energy. A paved highway passes through and alongside the claims, which also runs parallel with the Pine River. The B.C. Railway crosses on the opposite side of the valley as does the Peace River Power transmission line. Natural gas and oil pipelines also follow the highway through the valley.
With the exception of tenures 623083, the Pine River Property was acquired by the direct staking of claims by the Company and payment of the required registration fees to the Province of British Columbia. Tenure 623083 was gifted to the Company by Speebo, Inc., a private company controlled by our Chief Executive Officer, Perry Leopold.
Sampling documented in BC MINFILE 093O 009 has defined a vanadium-bearing zone with a length of 200 metres and an estimated true width of 100 metres.
The Company has no plans at the present time to explore the property independently, and intends to engage a joint-venture partner to fund the project. There is no guarantee the Company will be successful in this effort.
New Eskay Creek is located in northwestern British Columbia, approximately 70 kilometres north of Stewart, and consists of 551 hectares (1,361 acres). Road access is provided by the Eskay Creek Mine Road, which extends from the Stewart-Cassiar Highway at Bob Quinn Lake and traverses through the western portion of the Company’s claims before it reaches the Eskay Creek Mine.
According to British Columbia government records documented in BC MINFILE 104B 008, the major geological structure at Eskay Creek is known to trend to the north-northeast. This trend runs through the New Eskay Creek property, which to date remains unexplored.
The Company has no plans at the present time to explore the property independently, and intends to engage a joint-venture partner to fund the project. There is no guarantee the Company will be successful in this effort.
Item 3.