Item 2. Properties
The Ruby Property
On September 27, 2010, the Company finalized an option-to-purchase agreement with Ruby Development Company (“RDC”), a California partnership, for the acquisition of the Ruby Mine (the “Ruby”) in Sierra County, California. The purchase price is $2,500,000, which is to be paid in stages extending to December 30, 2012.
Terms of the Ruby agreement provide for an initial option period of 5 months that expires on January 31, 2011, at which time we may elect to extend the option for a second 5 month period, expiring on June 30, 2011. The Company may exercise its right to purchase the Ruby at any time during the option period, but no later than June 30, 2011. The initial consideration of the option period is $50,000 cash and 10 million shares of common stock to be credited towards the purchase price at a value of $150,000. Four monthly option payments of $10,000 each, or $40,000 in total, became due as of October 1, 2010, with the October 1 payment deferred until December 31, 2010, by agreement, In addition, in compliance with the agreement, the Company issued warrants to RDC that gives RDC the option of purchasing up to 10 million shares of stock at an exercise price of $.02 initially exercisable until December 30, 2012. The Company has also agreed to reimburse RDC within 30 days of invoice for all claim fees, taxes, and permit expenses during the option period, and on October 1, 2010 a cash payment of $16,600 was paid to reimburse RDC for annual claim fees and taxes. The next payment for claim fees and taxes to the US Bureau of Land Management (BLM) and Sierra County is not due until August 31, 2011. Monthly option payments of $10,000 cash began on November 1, 2010, with the October option payment deferred until December 30, 2010, and $30,000 of the $40,000 due has been paid as of December 31, 2010. The remaining monthly payment due on January 1, 2011 for the first option period ending January 31, 2010 is $10,000, which has been accrued for as of December 31, 2010, and which was subsequently paid on January 3, 2011. The Company has also paid an additional $8,114 in permit expenses as of December 31, 2010. If the Company elects to renew the option for an additional 5 months, the agreement calls for a $50,000 cash payment to be made by February 1, 2011, followed by 4 monthly cash payments of $25,000 each. Subsequent to December 31, 2010, RDC and the Company agreed to amend the terms of the second option period. The amendment provides revised terms for the extension of the option from February 1, 2011 through June 30, 2011. The revised terms reduces the payment due on February 1, 2011 from $50,000 to $10,000, and reduces the payment due on March 1, 2011 from $25,000 to $10,000. As of the date of this report, the February 1, 2011 and the March 1, 2011 payments have been paid. The payment due on April 1, 2011 has been increased from $25,000 to $30,000, and the payments due on May 1, 2011 and June 1, 2011, respectively, have been increased from $25,000 to $50,000. In addition, the amendment extends term of the warrants included as consideration in the original agreement has been extended from December 30, 2012 to December 30, 2015. All other terms of the original agreement remain in effect. Upon exercise of the option to complete the purchase at any time on or before June 30, 2011, the Company will pay a minimum of $85,000 cash per month until the purchase price of $2,500,000 is paid in full by December 30, 2012. The aforementioned notwithstanding, the Company must exercise its option and initiate its purchase within 60 days following the effective date of the approval of North Bay’s EB-5 Regional Center by the United States Customs and Immigration Service ("USCIS"). As an additional acceleration of purchase payments, RDC shall have the option of being paid up to 50% of all EB-5 tranches within 15 days of receipt by the Company until the unpaid balance is paid in full. All option payments and the initial consideration of $50,000 cash and $150,000 in stock shall be applied in full toward the purchase price. Reimbursed expenses for claim fees, taxes, and permits do not apply towards the purchase price. Interest of 3% per annum shall accrue on the outstanding principal until paid in full. In addition, in compliance with the agreement, on September 27, 2010, as amended on January 26, 2011, the Company issued warrants to RDC that gives them the option, until December 30, 2015, of purchasing up to 10 million shares of stock at $.02. Upon the exercise of the option to purchase and the transfer of title, the Company will receive all of the real and personal property associated with the Ruby Gold Mine, and all of the shares of Ruby Gold, Inc., a private California corporation whose sole asset is $170,000 in reclamation bonds securing the permits at the Ruby Mine. In addition, it has been agreed that the Company must obtain a public liability insurance policy with coverage of at least $1 million before the Company can begin work at the Ruby.
This is an arms-length transaction, and there is no family or other relationship with any affiliate of Ruby Development Company with any officer, director, or affiliate of North Bay Resources Inc.
The initial consideration of $50,000 in cash has been funded by way of a Convertible Promissory Note Agreement ("the Note") dated September 27, 2010 with Tangiers Investors LP, ("Tangiers") pursuant to which the Company received $50,000 as a loan from Tangiers. The Note specifies that the funds may only be used to secure an option to purchase the Ruby Mine. The Note is convertible to common stock, in whole or in part, at any time and from time to time before maturity at the option of the holder at the greater of (a) $0.005 or (b) eighty percent (80%) of the lowest traded price of common stock for ten (10) trading days immediately preceding the conversion date. As further consideration, Tangiers shall be entitled to 1,500,000 cashless 5 year warrants exercisable at $0.05 per share in the event that the principal sum is paid back within 90 days, or 2,500,000 cashless 5 year warrants exercisable at $0.05 per share in the event the principal sum is not paid back within 90 days. As of December 31, 2010, this Note is still outstanding. In addition, Tangiers shall receive a 0.75% non-voting profit-sharing interest in the Ruby Project. The Note has a term of one year and accrues interest at a rate equal to 9.9% per year.
It is expected that the combined total of stock, warrants, and convertible debentures related to this transaction will be dilutive to shareholders by adding between 12.5 million and 32.5 million shares onto our outstanding share total, of which 10 million shares have been reserved to secure all of RDC’s warrants, 12.5 million shares have been reserved to secure the Note and the Lenders warrants, and 10 million shares have been issued to RDC. The actual dilution is dependent upon whether or not any of the warrants are exercised, and whether the Note is repaid in cash or converted to stock.
Operational funding for the project of up to $7.5 million is expected to be provided through the federal EB-5 program described below. It is expected that this funding will be non-dilutive, as no shares of Company stock will be issued to EB-5 investors. The EB-5 funding will be debt, which must be repaid from mining operations over five years and at an interest rate of no more than 6%. In the interim, and prior to the establishment of the Northern California Regional Center that makes EB-5 funding possible, if the Company has not generated enough revenue from claim sales and joint-ventures to meet our commitments, we believe we can rely on our equity credit line established by way of our Securities Purchase Agreement with Tangiers, LP to cover our acquisition costs.
The agreement includes the subsurface mineral rights to 2 patented claims comprising 435 acres, and 30 unpatented claims comprising approximately 1,320 acres. All of the unpatented claims in the property package are in good standing through August 31, 2011 with both the BLM in Sacramento and Sierra County in Downieville, CA. Annual BLM claim fees and taxes are currently $16,600 per year, and are paid and current. The Ruby Mine is permitted(3) for underground exploration, small scale development and small scale production.
(1) The sum total of the acreage of the unpatented claims is 1,506 acres. However, as some placer claims overlap lode claims, the true acreage of the unpatented claim area is known to be approximately 1,320 acres, for a total property extent of approximately 1,755 acres including the subsurface patented claim area.
(2) September 1, 2011 represents the “Good Until” date of the Ruby unpatented claims. In order to maintain a mining claim in California in good standing, the claim holder must perform annual work having a minimum cost of $100 or, alternatively, pay to the U.S. Bureau of Land Management (”BLM”) an annual maintenance fee of $140. Patented claims have no “Good Until” date, and instead are only subject to local and state taxes. As of September 1, 2010, $4,200 was paid to maintain the unpatented claims, and $12,400 was paid in property taxes to maintain the unpatented and patented claims in good standing.
(3) The current Plan of Operations, effective as of 2001, is undergoing review and renewal by the Forestry Service. The Waste Discharge Order must be reviewed and approved by the Water Quality Control Board prior to the commencement of mining operations, and the Annual Fee for Waste Discharge Requirements for 2011 ($6,577 paid in 2010) is payable to the State Water Resources Control Board in December 2010. The Reclamation Permit has been renewed through April 2018, and must be updated prior to commencement of mining operations to include a Revegetation Plan and to amend the Reclamation Plan to show the mill site and tailings, both of which are being done now. A Reclamation Bond of $170,000 is in place, and will be assumed by the Company upon transfer of title.
The Ruby Mine
The Ruby Mine is an underground placer and lode mine located between Downieville and Forest City, in Sierra County, California. It is in the Alleghany-Downieville mining district, situated in the Sierra Nevada foothills south of the Yuba River.
In June 2010, the Company retained Mr. C. Gary Clifton, P. Geo., to visit the Ruby Mine in the Sierra County area of California to inspect its infrastructure and general conditions, assess its mineralization, and determine its potential to resume economic mining operations. Mr. Clifton holds degrees in Geology and Geochemistry from Macquarie University in Sydney, Australia, with post-graduate studies in Geochemistry at UC Berkeley and Oregon State University. As a Registered Professional Geologist, Mr. Clifton has almost 40 years of experience with several major mining and petroleum companies, and as an independent consultant in mining exploration and exploration management, mineral property evaluation, and mining geology. He has conducted and managed exploration and evaluation programs for a wide variety of mineral commodities in the United States, Australia, and the Middle East. Mr. Clifton is currently President of Western Resource Group LLC, and is a Qualified Person as defined by National Instrument 43-101.
Mr. Clifton has no family or other relationship with any past or present Company officer, director, or affiliate, and he has no family or other relationship with any past or present principal or affiliate of Ruby Development Company. The Company has not issued nor is it obligated to issue any of its stock in connection with Mr. Clifton’s engagement, and to the best of our knowledge Mr. Clifton does not own any shares of the Company.
The following information has been reviewed for technical accuracy by Mr. C. Gary Clifton, P. Geo, and who is the Qualified Person as defined by National Instrument 43-101 for the Ruby Project.
Location, Access, Physiography, and Climate
The Ruby Mine is located in southwestern Sierra County, in the northern part of the Sierra Nevada Foothills, Northern California. It lies approximately 25 air miles northeast of Grass Valley/Nevada City and is serviced by paved roads. Highway 49 passes through Downieville in the northern part of the area. The Pliocene Ridge road crosses the central part of the area and eventually merges with the Henness Pass road. There are paved spur roads to the town of Alleghany and the village of Forest City. The remaining few miles to the various mine sites are accessed by high quality, well maintained gravel roads.
The property is situated in the Sierra Nevada physiographic province and lies along the western slope of the Sierra Nevada Mountain range, at elevations varying from 2,500 feet in the canyons to more than 6,000 feet on the ridge crests. Regional physiographic conditions generally consist of gently to moderately rolling terrain, and steep sided plateaus with deeply incised streams and rivers.
The annual temperature varies between 10 and 100 degrees Fahrenheit. The annual precipitation varies between 50 and 70 inches, which falls principally as snow during the months of January, February and March.
Regional native vegetation typically includes pine, cedar and fir trees, manzanita, black oak, brush and native grasses. Commercial stands of second growth pine and Douglas Fir are sufficient to satisfy mine timber requirements, and there is ample water available. Rock Creek is the nearest year-round stream and water source to the site, which crosses the northern portion of the property generally east to west. The north fork of Oregon Creek (a seasonal drainage) also crosses the southern portion of the property from northeast to southwest.
Property Description
The Ruby Property covers approximately 1,755 acres, consisting of the subsurface mineral rights of two patented claims totaling approximately 435 acres and 30 unpatented claims containing approximately 1,320 acres. The mine encompasses at least four distinct underground river channels and three known lode gold veins.
The Ruby property comprises two contiguous claim groups; the Ruby and the Golden Bear (aka Carson Camp), both of which include lode and placer claims. The Ruby claims combine three past-producing gold mines, which are the Ruby, the Bald Mountain Extension, and the Wisconsin. The Golden Bear claims comprise several former producing mines as well, which are the Golden Bear, the Ireland, and the Cincinnati. Collectively, the Ruby and Golden Bear claims have produced in excess of 250,000 ounces of gold in a mining history dating from the 1850's.
The property covers one and one-half miles of strike length along the Eastern Melones Fault, the major structure along which many of the gold deposits of the Mother Lode are localized. The property also encompasses an estimated 4 miles of partially mined and unmined auriferous Tertiary channels. The Ruby is located on the northern extension of the historic Mother Lode system, as evidenced in the map below that shows the location of the Alleghany-Downieville mining district in relation to the overall Mother Lode.
The most recently active mining areas include the Ruby Portal and Lawry Shaft locations. Ruby Development Company maintains a Plan of Operations (dated February 1, 2001) for its mining operations on public lands in the Tahoe National Forest, administered by the United States Forest Service (USFS). As of the date of this report, the Plan of Operations has been approved for renewal through December 31, 2018. Current access roads to the site include Henness Pass Road, Sierra County Road 401, Forest Service Road 401-2, and Forest Service Road 30, along with a variety of small unimproved dirt connector roads. The site is primarily surrounded by public national forest lands administered by the USFS, with privately owned parcels adjacent to the northwest and northeast property boundaries. The privately owned parcels are designated for use as rural land, timberland, or mineral land.
History of Exploration, Development, and Production
Gold was originally discovered in the Alleghany-Downieville district in 1849, during the early days of the California Gold Rush. Since that time the district has produced at least 2.35 million ounces of lode gold from the vein deposits and at least 440,000 ounces of placer gold from the Tertiary channel deposits (not including an unknown amount of production from placer workings around Alleghany). Much of this production occurred intermittently, during relatively short periods of intense mining activity, separated by longer periods of minimal production when political and/or economic factors were unfavorable.
The history of the Ruby claim area dates from the 1850's, when placer gold occurrences were followed upstream from the North Yuba River to the headwaters of Slug Canyon where rich deposits of gold were discovered in a Tertiary gravel deposit. By the 1860's several mines were developing the gravels of a buried river system within the boundaries of the present Ruby property at the headwaters of nearby Rock Creek. These mines included the the Golden Bear and the Guatemala. The Ruby portal was collared in December, 1880 to access the central portion of this rich river system. Between 1880 and 1889 the Ruby Mine produced 86,500 ounces of gold from three buried river channels.
In the early 1930's, C.L. Best, the co-founder of Caterpillar Tractor, acquired the Ruby Mine, and developed the Black channel. Best Mines produced an estimated 58,000 ounces of gold from the gravels before the government forced closure under War Production Board Order L-208. C.L. Best saved 123 nuggets of $100 value or greater for a personal collection. That collection is presently on display al the Los Angeles County Museum of Natural History.
After the Second World War, the cost of labor and supplies rose rapidly, while the price of gold remained frozen at $35 an ounce. The mine was not re-opened by Best and it was sold after Best's death in 1951. The Ruby Development Company acquired a lease on the Ruby Mine in 1959 and bought the property outright in 1966. Lessees intermittently worked the gravels of the Black channel from the Lawry shaft until the mid-1970's.
In the late 1970's the Ruby Mine was leased to Alhambra Mines of Sparks, Nevada. During that same period, the Golden Lion Mining Corp. attempted to drive a decline to access the Cincinnati channel, which had previously been discovered in the quartz workings of the Cincinnati vein.
The Brush Creek Mining and Development Company, Inc. (“Brush Creek”) acquired the Ruby in 1990. From 1990 through 1995, Brush Creek rehabilitated and re-timbered approximately one and one-quarter miles of horizontal haulage tunnel supports and a 210 foot vertical shaft for access and mine safety, constructed a new wash plant and quartz mill, built underground roads for use by diesel loaders, installed a hoist and constructed a new sixty-foot steel head frame over the Lawry Shaft at the Ruby Mine, installed a complete underground ventilation system and electrical system at the Lawry Shaft, constructed a new waste water treatment system for use at the mill site, and modified and enlarged the structures at the mill site. According to their SEC filings, Brush Creek’s total investment in the Ruby was $4,554,575 as of June 30, 1997, including $2,251,714 of development costs, and $1,975,525 of mining equipment. Production during this period was limited. From December 1992 until July 1993 an estimated 7,300 tons of mineralized material was mined, resulting in the recovery of approximately 200 ounces of gold. Brush Creek stated that these preliminary results were too small to be a reliable representative sample of the expected placer grades. In 1994, approximately 400 tons were mined from the Lawry channel, at an average grade of 0.2 ounces per ton. By 1995, mining operations were suspended, and except for limited periods of sporadic activity over the next few years, the mine was put on care and maintenance. Brush Creek briefly resumed operations in 1998, driving a development tunnel in the south Lawry Shaft workings. The property was eventually forfeited and returned to the Ruby Development Company, who has maintained the property and permits to the present day.
Plant, Equipment, Permits, and Site Infrastructure
Site inspections conducted during June and July, 2010 by C. Gary Clifton, a certified professional geologist (P.Geo.) retained by the Company as an independent consulting geologist to inspect and assess the Ruby Mine, and by management in September, 2010, confirmed that the Ruby is in excellent condition, and has been well maintained despite having not been operation since 1998. The equipment currently on-site at the Ruby was mostly purchased in the period between 1990 and 1995 when the mine was last in production, and is therefore between 15 and 20 years old. The equipment, including the wash plant and mill facilities, has been confirmed to be in good working order, though some minor upgrades are expected to be needed once operations resume.
The equipment, fixed assets, and infrastructure in place have been valued by RDC at an estimated $3.5 million, and include a 1,000 yard per day placer wash plant, 50-ton per day quartz mill, 6,000 feet of tracked haulage, and related support equipment needed for underground mining operations. A second exit, the Lawry Shaft, almost 2 miles from the main portal, can provide natural ventilation for much of the underground workings. Surface buildings and facilities include a lumber mill, machine shops, offices, and accommodations. The property also features an excellent system of roads, is accessible via paved highway from Reno or Sacramento, has abundant water and timber available for mining purposes, and has PG&E power available on-site.
Permits in place include a Plan of Operations, a Phase I Environmental Site Assessment, a Water Order, and a Reclamation Plan secured by over $170,000 in Reclamation Bonds. The current Plan of Operations, effective as of 2001, has been approved for renewal by the Forest Service through December 31, 2018. The Waste Discharge Order must be reviewed and approved by the Water Quality Control Board prior to the commencement of mining operations, and the Annual Fee for Waste Discharge Requirements for 2011 ($6,577 paid in 2010) was paid to the State Water Resources Control Board in December, 2010. The Reclamation Permit has been renewed through April 2018, and must be updated prior to commencement of mining operations to include a Revegetation Plan and to amend the Reclamation Plan to show the mill site and tailings, both of which have been completed as of December 31, 2010. A Reclamation Bond of $170,000 is in place, and will be assumed by the Company upon transfer of title.
Skilled underground hard-rock and placer miners with considerable experience in the local ground conditions reside in the area and will provide a valuable resource in the present and future development of the Ruby.
Recent Geological Assessment Work
The Ruby Mine is an underground mine that is known to have produced over 250,000 ounces of gold since the 1850’s, but which currently has no known estimates of proven reserves.
Geological assessment work carried out by Mr. Gary Clifton P.Geo., during the summer of 2010, including extensive research to evaluate the resource maps and data from Brush Creek Mining’s operations in the 1990’s and Alhambra Mines in the early 1980’s, has identified 3.03 miles of unmined channel and 0.95 miles of partially mined channel available for mining using the existing infrastructure. The following table provides the estimates of each channel surveyed by Mr. Clifton in July, 2010. In compiling the data, the Pilot Channel is considered the northern extension of the Black Channel and the Mt. Vernon Channel is a tributary. In addition, the stretch of Black Channel between the Big Bend and the Lawry Shaft is designated as partially mined, as is one-half of the stretch of the same channel between the Lawry Shaft and the mined portion of the Pilot Channel at the northern property boundary. All measurements are in feet.
Additional channels as well as lode deposits in quartz veins are known to exist on the property. These will require additional development and no attempt has been made as of yet to estimate the amount of gold they may contain.
During the 2010 summer program, 35 samples were collected by Mr. Clifton from the Lawry Shaft workings and sent to American Assay Laboratories Inc. in Sparks, NV for fire assay analysis. The samples, each weighing approximately 1 kilogram, were collected at 10-foot intervals at the gravel-bedrock interface at 5 locations (A through E) within tunnels and crosscuts. At location C, samples C9 through C12 returned several high values, including 45.5 grams (1.45 ounces) and 15.05 grams (0.48 ounces) per metric ton (tonne) gold, as per the table below. This represents a 30-foot wide zone of placer gold-enriched sediments in which 3 of the 4 samples are highly anomalous. This zone is considered mining width. Having delineated a 30-foot wide zone with a limited 35-sample set, we believe this indicates that gold-rich gravels are relatively abundant, easily identified, and present in existing workings ready to be exploited.
Regional Geology
The geology of the region consists of Mesozoic and Paleozoic metavolcanic rock, Paleozoic Calaveras Formation rocks (phyllite, schist, with thin beds of metachert), and Silurian slate with subordinate chert, conglomerate and sandstone. The Mesozoic era occurred between approximately 65 and 248 million years before present (MYBP). The Paleozoic era occurred between approximately 248 and 543 MYBP. The Silurian period was part of the Paleozoic era, and occurred between 417 and 443 MYBP.
Local Geology
The Alleghany-Downieville gold mining district is situated in the northern pan of the Sierra Foothills Metamorphic Belt, to the west of the Sierra Nevada Batholith. The district forms the northern continuation of the Mother Lode System, a major, north-northwesterly trending metallogenic province that extends for a distance of 160 miles and has produced over 125 million ounces of gold.
Most of the gold mines within the Mother Lode System are localized along the Melones Fault, a steep, easterly dipping crustal-scale suture that extends from Mariposa County in the south to Plumas County in the north. This structure marks the boundary between several tectonic terrains. In the northern part of the foothills belt, the structure defines the contact of continentally derived sediments of the Paleozoic Shoo Fly Complex to the east, with generally younger oceanic and volcanic island arc rocks of the Western Assemblage to the west. In the south, the structure marks the boundary between the Calaveras Complex, an Upper Paleozoic sedimentary sequence of deep water, oceanic affinity to the east with rocks of the Western Assemblage to the west.
Geology of the Ruby Property
The Ruby Property covers one and one-half miles of strike length along the Eastern Melones Fault, the major structure along which many of the gold deposits of the Mother Lode are localized. The property also encompasses an estimated 4 miles of unmined auriferous Tertiary channels. The Ruby is considered part of the northern extension of the historic Mother Lode system.
The locus of the Melones Fault coincides with a discontinuous zone of intensely sheared and variably altered serpentinite, commonly associated with more massive gabbroic rocks. These rocks are believed to represent part of an ophiolite suite. At the latitude of the Alleghany-Downieville district, the Melones Fault zone is up to 4 miles wide. At this location, the fault zone is occupied by a serpentinite-hosted melange of ophiolitic rocks, blueschist to greenschist-grade oceanic sediments and mafic volcanics, as well as complexly deformed, amphibolite-grade Paleozoic rocks.
Mineralization and Deposit Type
The primary mineralization at the Ruby is gold. The primary deposit type consists of gold-bearing Tertiary-age channels, as exemplified by the Bald Mountain and Bald Mountain Extension channels, both of which have been among the most prolific gold producers in the Alleghany-Downieville district. Younger intervolcanic channels also formed rich placer gold deposits where the younger river system eroded and redeposited the auriferous gravels of the older channels. Examples of this type of younger channel include the Black channel in the vicinity of the Big Bend in the Ruby Mine and the Deep Rock Creek channel, which reworked extensive stretches of the Bald Mountain channel.
Distinct concentrations of placer gold have also been associated with the existence of quartz gold deposits. Some of the most productive quartz gold deposits in this area were discovered in the bedrocks while mining the placer channels. The quartz veins in this region typically extend to thousands of feet in depth, and are noted for rich shoots often containing spectacular pockets of Gold-in-Quartz. The Ruby is known to contain quartz vein deposits, as exemplified by the Wolf Vein near the Bald Mountain Channel.
Ruby Mine Mining Plan
The Ruby mining plan anticipates that much of the first season will be engaged in determining the exact locations of the targeted channels with exploration drifting (tunneling) and establishing Development Headings in these channels.
The Deep Rock Creek Project will lag behind the Lawry Shaft Project since the new tunnel and winze will not be completed until late in Year 1.
The initial work in the first month will concentrate on getting the Ruby Mine facilities and equipment into good working order.
The Pilot and Mount Vernon Channel targets are projected to lie in the near vicinity of the existing Lawry Shaft workings, so active exploration tunneling ("drifting") with air-powered slushers and trackless loaders ("LHD's") is expected to be underway in the second month of activity.
Construction of the 1,500 foot Deep Rock Creek Project access tunnel can also begin very quickly. This tunnel will be a tracked haulageway. The rate of progress will be limited by the amount of time required by the maintenance program in the Ruby Tunnel beyond the "Daylight Turn" where the Deep Rock Creek Access Tunnel begins. This maintenance will be required prior to constructing the Big Bend Raise to the Black Channel workings.
A "herring bone" drift pattern is planned for development in the channels. A central tunnel (known as a "drift") will be driven following the gut (deepest part) of the channel. This drift will be continued until the end of the channel is reached and the length of the resource has been defined. Regularly spaced crosscuts (known as "crosscut drifts") will be driven out on each side of the central drift to determine the width of the channel.
The material mined from these development drifts will be washed in the placer plant. Careful records of the gold recovery will also provide a grade for the material "blocked out" in this process, thereby developing a proven resource to be mined in the production phase of the mining plan.
The Ruby Mine typically experiences considerable snow fall, and a decrease in activity is planned for during the winter months of Year 1. It is expected that the Ruby will operate year-round once the operation is well established.
Operational Considerations
The southern working area, the Deep Rock Creek Project, is accessible by the Ruby Tunnel, which is equipped with 30 lb. rail and 4" Victaulic steel compressed air pipe. The northern area, the Lawry Shaft Project, will be mined by LHD's from the existing tunnel system.
On the north end, entry to the mine is through the Lawry Shaft which has a steel headframe and a complete hoist house and hoisting facilities for men and materials. There are two LHD's with 1 yd. buckets underground. There is a 40 hp. fan and a secondary ventilation fan with fan line as well as water and compressed air lines and electrical service underground. Electricity in this area is provided by PG&E and a 150 kw diesel generator providing backup power. A 250 cfm electric compressor located on the surface provides compressed air.
The south end of the mine is accessible by a portal. Electricity is provided by 250 kw and 55 kw diesel generators and compressed air by a 750 cfm diesel compressor. There is a 40 hp. ventilation fan located underground, electric and diesel trammers, ore cars and flat cars. The site has a shop with an electric overhead hoist on a track and various tools, mill buildings, a 4,500 gallon diesel tank with containment basin under cover, a 1,000 yard-per-day placer gravel recovery plant and a 50 ton hard rock quartz recovery plant.
The north and south ends of the mine are connected underground, which facilitates ventilation and provides an exit at both ends.
The north end has a 2 story bunkhouse which can provide accommodations, a trailer which can also be used for accommodations, and an office. The adjacent cook shack will accommodate several more people. There is a 40' by 70' steel shop building on a concrete slab, a 10,000 gallon double-walled diesel tank, and other buildings. Electricity in this area is provided by PG&E.
The property contains Douglas fir trees which can be used for mine timber. The Forest Service has marked trees for cutting, and there is a bandsaw lumber mill on the property. Several thousand board feet of milled mine timbers are currently onsite.
The property is serviced throughout by a system of good dirt roads and oiled roads, with paved roads to the property from Highway 49. The property has a great deal of flat and useable areas available, and there is ample working room around the shops and other buildings.
The mine has rock drills, slushers and tuggers, additional fans and pumps, both air and electric powered, and much miscellaneous equipment, tools, and supplies. The mine also has a Peterbilt water truck, International flatbed truck, Oshkosh 4x4 dump truck, and Hyster equipment trailer. There is a large dump facility as well as ponds for water storage and ample process water that exits from the Ruby Tunnel.
Description of Mining Process
Although the grades encountered in the ancient river channels of the Alleghany District are extremely high relative to most placer deposits elsewhere in the world, underground mining costs are also much higher than the cost of open pit or dredge methods employed in most present-day placer operations. This cost reality, together with the erratic distribution of the gold, requires that selective mining methods based on strict grade control be utilized in order to achieve a profitable operation.
A cost effective underground mining operation is accomplished by a two-phase process:
(a) Development occurs on the advance by drifting upstream or downstream along the axis of the channel, with crosscuts driven every fifty to one hundred feet. The muck from these workings is slushed to passes that lead to the main haulage level within the bedrock below the channels. This production is accompanied by face and rib sampling and by bulk testing of the muck from the development headings. Each round is quantitatively analyzed to map out the grade distribution of the gold. This work is followed by;
(b) Selective mining--termed breasting-- during the retreat, using the drift as the main haulage-way and leaving pillars of lower grade material. This is facilitated by careful mine planning based on the geometry of the channel and the grade distribution ascertained from the development phase.
Description of the Recovery Process
The mined gravel (muck) is transported from the mine along the tracked haulageway to the mill and dumped into the ore bin directly above the gravity separation washing plant. The wash plant is a closed-circuit system which recycles the wash water. The gravel is scraped onto a feed belt which elevates and dumps the material into the scrubber (trommel -- a large, inclined metal cylinder). Water is added and the scrubber is rotated in a clockwise direction at twelve revolutions per minute to thoroughly wash the gravel. Retaining rings inside the scrubber catch the larger gold nuggets. The washed gravel is discharged through slots in the final section of the scrubber that serve as a sizing screen. All plus 3/4 inch material is rejected to the coarse material belt which moves the reject gravel to the stacker belt for transport.
The remaining minus 3/4 inch material and excess water falls onto the walking bottom sluice box. This sluice box is a gravity separation device which utilizes Hungarian riffles mounted on a moving rubber belt to trap all high specific gravity material. The riffle bed rotates up the grade through the sized material and water, cycling completely every twenty minutes while continually dumping the heavy concentrate into the live bottom sluice box.
All lighter material not trapped in the Hungarian riffles is washed off the discharge end of the walking bottom sluice box and over a 1/8 inch vibrating dewatering screen. The dry plus 1/8 inch, minus 3/4 inch material is vibrated onto a skid plate that loads directly onto the stacker belt for transport to the waste dump. The minus 1/8 inch material and water is discharged into the dewatering sand screw.
The live bottom sluice box utilizes a cam-operated jigging action within its bed to further concentrate, grade and separate all gold and other high specific gravity material. The trapped gold and heavy concentrate is cleaned from the box once a day and transported to the gold room for final cleanup.
The lighter material not concentrated within the bed is washed out of the live bottom sluice box with the excess water and discharged into the dewatering sand screw. The coarser material is dried by the dewatering sand screw and dumped onto the stacker belt. The finer waste material is discharged with the wash water to the primary settling pond. The wash water continues to the second settling pond from which it is pumped back to the scrubber at the head of the system. Water discharging from the tunnel is piped to the head of the system by gravity as needed for make up water.
A backhoe is used as required to bail the fine settled material from the primary settling pond to dry before transport to the waste dump.
QA/QC Protocols
The Company has not determined its QA/QC protocols as a matter of policy, and relies on its joint venture partners and outside consultants to provide these protocols on a project-specific basis.
Canadian Properties
Below is a description of the properties (or mining/mineral/placer claims) currently owned by the Company which are currently under contract for exploration and development with joint-venture partners, previously under contract with joint-venture partners, or else prospective for future joint-ventures. Our mining claims convey the mineral or placer rights for mining-related purposes only, and while our rights allow us to use the surface of a claim for mining and exploration activities, our claims do not convey any other surface, residential or recreational rights to the Company. Additionally, our right to extraction is not absolute, as any mechanized extraction work on claims in BC requires additional permits and possibly conversion of our claims to mining leases, the approval of which is not guaranteed.
For the year ended December 31, 2010, the Company paid the Province of British Columbia an aggregate of $45,917 USD in registration and claim maintenance fees to maintain our properties in good standing. For the year ended December 31, 2009, these fees totaled $38,121 USD.
The Company actively manages its claims on a daily basis through the British Columbia MTO system, and at times elects to reduce costs by paying annual fees incrementally as permitted by BC regulations, allowing non-strategic claims to lapse, and occasionally reducing the aggregate size of a particular claim area or letting it lapse altogether to further reduce carrying costs. Therefore, the costs stated below to maintain a property in good standing is the maximum required on an annualized basis, and in many instances the actual realized expense may be less than indicated below.
Unless otherwise noted, all dollar amounts related to claim fees paid to the Province of British Columbia are in Canadian dollars (CDN).
Principal Canadian Properties
The following table shows the Company’s principal target properties in British Columbia, Canada, which in aggregate comprise 135 claims that cover 46,922 acres (18,997 hectares). The Company owns additional claims throughout British Columbia, but most of these others have not as yet been aggregated into identifiable properties, are currently not considered material, or are expected to expire on their termination dates and no longer held. As of December 31, 2010, our total holdings are 290 claims encompassing 103,536 acres (41,918 hectares). This is a snapshot in time, and the number may be quite different six months or one year from now. The Company has a very active exploration program in place, which on a daily basis will add new claims, drop or reduce the size of others, and maintain the rest. The Company is comfortable with maintaining a stated minimum of 150 mineral and placer and 60,000 acres on an annualized basis. All of our claims are under constant review, and may be decreased or further increased at any time, depending on the constant re-evaluation of our present holdings, and the availability of new opportunities in the future as other claims of merit become available for acquisition.
Properties are labeled as such when individual claims that are either contiguous with each other or in close proximity can be aggregated and identified with a known mineral or placer resource. As of January 7, 2011, the total cost expensed to acquire and maintain these properties is $75,190, which includes $17,728 in total acquisition (staking) expenses. If every claim is maintained for the next year, the projected expense would be a maximum of $88,084. In keeping with Company practices, some non-strategic claims may be allowed to lapse, and possibly re-staked afterwards, resulting in a considerable saving from the maximum projected annualized cost. As well, any of these properties that become the subject of options or joint-ventures with other companies will see their projected maintenance costs transferred to the prospective partner company for the duration of the contract. The table below shows the total cost to-date of each property, the annualized projected cost of maintaining the properties, as well as the monthly expense and the expense per day when the Company elects to pay annualized fees incrementally. All dollar amounts in this table are expressed in Canadian dollars, and the actual expense to the Company in terms of US dollars, when actually paid, can be as much as 10% lower, depending on the foreign currency exchange rate on the day any payment is recorded.
The following list excludes an accounting of the Fawn Property. Silver Quest Resources Ltd., as part of our joint-venture agreement, has been designated as the property operator, and is solely responsible for all planning, budgeting, and expenditures related to ongoing exploration and claim maintenance. Details on the cost of acquisition and maintenance fees that would be due if the Company were still responsible for them are provided in the Fawn Property discussion in the section labeled “Property Descriptions”.
Canadian Property Descriptions
The Fawn Property is situated on the Nechako Plateau of central British Columbia, approximately 120 kilometres southwest of Vanderhoof and 180 kilometres west of Quesnel. The property covers 407 hectares (1,005 acres). It includes the Buck claims 6 kilometres to the east, and the Malaput E-W claims 3 kilometres to the southeast.
The Company owns a 100% undivided interest in the mineral rights underlying the property, the surface of which is owned by the Province of British Columbia, also known as Crown Land. Our registered claims convey to us the mineral rights for mining-related purposes only, and while our rights allow us to use the surface of a mineral claim for mining and exploration activities, our claims do not convey any residential or recreational rights to the Company. The property is without known reserves, and is exploratory in nature.
The Fawn Property was acquired by the direct staking of claims by the Company and payment of the required registration fees to the Province of British Columbia. The registration fees for the Fawn claims were $163, determined by the statutory fee of $0.40 per hectare for a mineral claim. The initial term of any claim staked in British Columbia is one year. This term may be extended for up to 10 years at a time by filing a statement of work showing minimum expenditures on a mineral claim of $4 per hectare per year for the first 3 years, and $8 per hectare per year for each year thereafter, plus a registration fee of $0.40 per hectare. Based on this formula, the minimum annual work commitment required to maintain the Fawn property in good standing is currently $1,791. In the event no work is performed by the anniversary date of each claim, the claims may be extended for up to one year at a time by paying the work commitment as a fee to the Province of British Columbia, which is referred to as Cash In Lieu Of Work (“CIL fee”). As of August 19, 2010, work expenditures by our JV partner, Silver Quest Resources Ltd., have been applied to the Fawn tenure 606724 to extend its good standing date through June 27, 2013, and work expenditures have been applied to the Buck tenures 598000 and 617183 to extend their good standing dates through December 10, 2011
Title to the property is conveyed by tenure number registered with British Columbia, the specifics of which are shown in the following table and claims map.
As documented in British Columbia government records (MINFILE), previous exploration by prior claim holders on the Fawn Property has consisted of soil geochemistry, magnetometric surveys, trenching and limited drilling. A total of 2,469 metres of drilling in 13 holes has been completed on the property with the best assays reported of 1.08 grams per tonne gold and 23.3 grams per tonne silver over 10.2 metres (Source: MINFILE 093F 043).
On the Buck claims, previous exploration consisting primarily of soil geochem and geophysics has outlined a 3,500 metre long silver-lead-zinc anomaly. A primary area of interest is known as the Christmas Cake showing, where a 45 centimetre chip sample has assayed 542 grams per tonne silver, 7.38% zinc, and 2.25% lead (Source: MINFILE 093F 050).
The Fawn Property is currently under a joint-venture agreement with Silver Quest Resources Ltd (TSX-V: SQI) (“Silver Quest”). Silver Quest may acquire a 75% interest in the Fawn property by making aggregate cash payments of $100,000, issuing 150,000 shares, and incurring $1,500,000 in exploration expenditures over four years. Of the aggregate payments and commitments due, $25,000 in cash and 50,000 shares are due upon receipt of regulatory acceptance by the TSX Venture Exchange (now effective), and $250,000 in exploration expenditures must be expended in the first 12 months. Upon completion of all of the terms of the agreement whereby Silver Quest acquires a 75% interest, a 75/25 joint-venture will be formed. If subsequent to the formation of the joint-venture the interest of either party is reduced by dilution to less than 10%, such party's interest will automatically be converted to a 2% net smelter return royalty (NSR). The other party may then purchase one half of the NSR at any time up to 90 days following the commencement of commercial production for $1,500,000. Prior to the signing of the Silver Quest JV agreement, the Fawn Property was unencumbered by any underlying agreements or royalties. Subsequent to the signing of the contract, the Company elected to receive the stock component of the consideration paid in cash instead of shares of Silver Quest. The net cash received from Silver Quest in 2009 was $35,780 USD. As of July 20, 2010, the Company has been advised that Silver Quest has begun a $2.2M work program on their Capoose Project, of which the Fawn property is adjacent to and considered within the overall scope of the 2010 Capoose work program. During August, 2010, work was been suspended due to extensive forest fires in central British Columbia, and work crews have been evacuated. Subsequently, on September 13, 2010 the Company agreed to an amendment to the October 15, 2009 agreement that extends the terms of the work commitment by one year, such that expenditures required in the first year of the agreement are extended until October 15, 2011, and further expenditures extended similarly by one year. In consideration of the amended agreement, North Bay is to receive an additional cash payment of $25,000 USD. A payment of $25,000 CDN was received on September 14, 2010. The difference in the currency conversion of $694 USD will be added on to the first anniversary payment of $25,000 CDN and the cash equivalent of 50,000 shares of Silver Quest stock due on October 15, 2010. The first anniversary payment was received on October 18, 2010, consisting of $65,000 CDN and $694 USD. After the effect of currency conversions and bank service charges, the Company received net proceeds of $63,400 USD. As of September 14, 2010, the total aggregate expenditures for the 2010 season prior to the suspension of work was not considered significant, resulting in the agreement to extend the work program another year. On June 25, 2010, Silver Quest applied enough work expenditures to the Fawn claim, tenure number 606724, that extends its “good standing” date through June 27, 2013. Work expenditures have also been applied to the Buck tenures 598000 and 617183 to extend their good standing dates through December 10, 2011. All dollar amounts unless otherwise noted are in Canadian dollars. The Company has not issued nor will it issue any of its own stock in connection with this joint-venture agreement, and to the best of our knowledge Silver Quest does not own any shares of the Company.
As per the joint-venture agreement currently in effect, Silver Quest has been designated as the property operator, and is solely responsible for all planning, budgeting, and expenditures related to ongoing exploration of the Fawn Property. The Company does not receive any funds directly with regard to contractual work commitments, and relies on Silver Quest to make the agreed expenditures independently.
Coronation Gold is located near Memphis Creek, 6 kilometres northeast of Slocan in southeastern British Columbia. The property covers 125 hectares (309 acres) and includes four past-producing mines; the Colorado, the Homestake, the V&M, and the Senator mines.
The Company owns a 100% undivided interest in the mineral rights underlying the property, the surface of which is owned by the Province of British Columbia, also known as Crown Land. Our registered claims convey to us the mineral rights for mining-related purposes only, and while our rights allow us to use the surface of a mineral claim for mining and exploration activities, our claims do not convey any residential or recreational rights to the Company. The property is without known reserves, and is exploratory in nature.
The Coronation Property was acquired by the direct staking of claims by the Company and payment of the required registration fees to the Province of British Columbia. The registration fees for the Coronation claims were $50, determined by the statutory fee of $0.40 per hectare for a mineral claim. The initial term of any claim staked in British Columbia is one year. This term may be extended for up to 10 years at a time by filing a statement of work showing minimum expenditures on a mineral claim of $4 per hectare per year for the first 3 years, and $8 per hectare per year for each year thereafter, plus a registration fee of $0.40 per hectare. Based on this formula, the minimum annual work commitment required to maintain the Coronation property in good standing is currently $550. In the event no work is performed by the anniversary date of each claim, the claims may be extended for up to one year at a time by paying the work commitment as a fee to the Province of British Columbia, which is referred to as Cash In Lieu Of Work (“CIL fee”).
Title to the property is conveyed by tenure number registered with British Columbia, the specifics of which are shown in the following table and claims map.
British Columbia government records show that the primary mineralization on the Coronation claims consists of gold, silver, zinc, and lead. Past-production records on file in British Columbia for the Colorado, Homestake, V&M, and Senator mines are as follows:
Colorado: Intermittent mining for the periods 1904 to 1915 and 1967 to 1969 produced a total of 67 tonnes, yielding 2188 grams per tonne silver, 2.5 per cent lead, and 5.6 per cent zinc (Source: BC MINFILE 082FNW161).
Homestake: At the Homestake (formerly known as the Hamilton), intermittent production from 1903 to 1915 totaled 33 tonnes of ore, yielding 115,299 grams of silver, 93 grams of gold and 1921 kilograms of lead. Production as the Homestake from 1968 to 1971 totaled 330 tonnes, yielding 861,491 grams of silver, 7370 grams of gold, 440 kilograms of lead and 503 kilograms of zinc (Source: BC MINFILE 082FNW213).
V&M: At the V&M mine, which includes the Get There Eli vein, 11 tonnes ore shipped in 1901 is documented as yielding 124 grams of gold and 21,554 grams of silver. Production of about 9 tonnes of ore in 1938 from the Get There Eli yielded 124 grams of gold and 15,925 grams of silver. 3 tonnes of ore mined in 1955 from the V&M yielded 93 grams of gold, 12,338 grams of silver, 23 kilograms of lead and 8 kilograms of zinc. In 1988, Yukon Minerals Corporation conducted soil and rock sampling, and geological mapping in the area. A sample from the Get-There-Eli adit assayed 16.8 grams per tonne gold and 549 grams per tonne silver over 0.5 metre on a quartz-pyrite vein (Source: BC MINFILE 082FNW191)
Senator: The Senator mine, which includes the Midnight vein, produced 20 tonnes of ore in 1906 and 1907, yielding 43,420 grams of silver and 436 grams of gold. In 1939 and 1940, production totaled 13 tonnes of ore, yielding 187 grams of gold and 17,947 grams of silver. In 1988, Yukon Minerals Corporation conducted soil and rock sampling, and geological mapping in the area. A sample from the Senator adit assayed 6.1 grams per tonne gold and 1080 grams per tonne silver over 0.3 metre on a quartz-pyrite vein (Source: BC MINFILE 082FNW164).
The Coronation is currently under a joint-venture agreement with Lincoln Resources Inc. (“Lincoln”), a private Nevada corporation. The agreement calls for Lincoln to commit up to $1.5 million over three years for exploration expenses, developmental drilling, and surface ore recovery, with a minimum expenditure of $250,000 during the first year. Upon completion of the work program and fulfillment of all the terms of the agreement, North Bay and Lincoln will each own 50% of the Coronation Gold Property, and will equally share any and all net revenue, including any near-term profits generated from surface ore recovery operations. It is expected that a portion of any profits will be re-invested in ongoing development work on the Coronation’s underground resources. In addition, North Bay has received an initial cash payment of $12,500 from Lincoln, less a $2,500 finder’s fee paid to an independent third party. On June 25, 2010, an amendment to the August 6, 2009 Coronation Gold JV agreement was agreed to. The amendment extends the terms of the work commitment by one year, such that expenditures required in the first year of the agreement are extended until August 6, 2011, and further expenditures extended similarly by one year. In consideration of the amended agreement, North Bay will receive an additional cash payment of $10,000 USD, with $5,000 due on or before August 6, 2010 and the balance due within 30 days thereafter. As of September 8, 2010, this $10,000 consideration has been paid in full, and in cash. No stock was issued by either party in connection with this agreement. In addition, the Company received $550 USD on June 23, 2010 from Lincoln to cover the annual claim maintenance fees on the property, as per the August 6, 2009 agreement. All dollar amounts unless otherwise noted are in Canadian dollars. Prior to the signing of the agreement, the Coronation Property was unencumbered by any underlying agreements or royalties. The Company has not issued nor will it issue any of its own stock in connection with this joint-venture agreement, and to the best of our knowledge Lincoln does not own any shares of the Company.
As per the joint-venture agreement currently in effect, Lincoln has been designated as the property operator, and is solely responsible for all planning, budgeting, and expenditures related to ongoing exploration of the Coronation Property. Other than re-imbursement of any outlays for claim maintenance fees to British Columbia, the Company does not receive any funds directly with regard to contractual work commitments, and relies on Lincoln to make the agreed expenditures independently. Lincoln has not yet announced their plans for the 2010-2011 field season.
Fraser River Platinum Property is located along the Fraser River, 3 kilometres northwest of the village of Lytton in south-central British Columbia. The property covers 248 hectares (610 acres) on both sides of an area known as the Van Winkle Bar. As documented in British Columbia Open File 1986-7 and BC MINFILE 092ISW078, platinum and iridium are known to occur in the black sands of Van Winkle Bar.
The Company owns a 100% undivided interest in the placer rights underlying the property, the surface of which is owned by the Province of British Columbia, also known as Crown Land. Our registered claims convey to us the placer rights for mining-related purposes only, and while our rights allow us to use the surface of a placer claim for mining and exploration activities, our claims do not convey any residential or recreational rights to the Company. The property is without known reserves, and is exploratory in nature.
The Fraser River Property was acquired by the direct staking of claims by the Company and payment of the required registration fees to the Province of British Columbia. The registration fees for the Fraser River placer claims were $496, determined by the statutory fee of $2.00 per hectare for a placer claim. The initial term of any claim staked in British Columbia is one year. This term may be extended for up to 10 years at a time by filing a statement of work showing minimum expenditures on a placer claim of $10 per hectare per year, plus a registration fee of $2.00 per hectare. Based on this formula, the minimum annual work commitment required to maintain the Fraser River property in good standing is currently $2,976. In the event no work is performed by the anniversary date of each claim, the claims may be extended for up to one year at a time by paying the work commitment as a fee to the Province of British Columbia, which is referred to as Cash In Lieu Of Work (“CIL fee”). The Company is currently responsible for the payment of all fees required to maintain this property in good standing.
Title to the property is conveyed by tenure number registered with British Columbia, as shown in the following table and claims map.
In February 2009, the Company through our prospective JV partner, Mr. Bill Morgan, discovered visible gold during the first phase of test excavations 400 metres northwest of the Van Winkle Bar along an old river channel. Prior to this there were no substantive indications of gold mineralization in the Fraser River deposit.
One cubic yard of material (the approximate equivalent of 2 metric tons) was excavated, processed, reduced to 750 grams of concentrate, and divided into three 250 gram (0.25 kg) samples, These samples were sent to Acme Analytical Laboratories Ltd. in Vancouver, BC for analysis. Acme Analytical Laboratories Ltd., an ISO 9001:2000 company, follows a strict regime of internal Quality Assurance/Quality Control (QA/QC) protocols, including blanks, duplicates, and standard reference materials inserted in the sequences of client samples to provide a measure of background noise, accuracy and precision. The assay results showed the concentrate samples averaged 564 grams per tonne gold and 4.45 grams per tonne platinum, as per the following table:
Subsequent to the completion of the initial test phase, an outreach to the local Lytton First Nations council was rebuffed. Mr. Morgan subsequently withdrew from the project, and further work was suspended. Any further work is contingent on the approval of the Lytton First Nations by way of treaty agreements with the Province of British Columbia. The Company has no plans at the present time to continue exploring the property independently, and intends to engage a joint-venture partner with local ties to the Lytton First Nations to fund and operate the project. There is no guarantee the Company will be successful in this effort.
The Silver Leaf Property is located near Speculator Creek, 8 kilometres east-northeast of Slocan in southeastern British Columbia, and covers 2,586 hectares (6,387 acres).
With the exception of patented claims known as Crown Grants shown on the map below, the Company owns a 100% undivided interest in the mineral rights underlying the property, the surface of which is owned by the Province of British Columbia. Our registered claims convey to us the mineral rights for mining-related purposes only, and while our rights allow us to use the surface of a mineral claim for mining and exploration activities, our claims do not convey any residential or recreational rights to the Company. The property is without known reserves, and is exploratory in nature.
The Silver Leaf Property was acquired by the direct staking of claims by the Company and payment of the required registration fees to the Province of British Columbia. The registration fees for the Silver Leaf claims were $1,034, determined by the statutory fee of $0.40 per hectare for a mineral claim. The initial term of any claim staked in British Columbia is one year. This term may be extended for up to 10 years at a time by filing a statement of work showing minimum expenditures on a mineral claim of $4 per hectare per year for the first 3 years, and $8 per hectare per year for each year thereafter, plus a registration fee of $0.40 per hectare. Based on this formula, the minimum annual work commitment required to maintain the Silver Leaf property in good standing is currently $11,378. In the event no work is performed by the anniversary date of each claim, the claims may be extended for up to one year at a time by paying the work commitment as a fee to the Province of British Columbia, which is referred to as Cash In Lieu Of Work (“CIL fee”). The Company is currently responsible for the payment of all fees required to maintain this property in good standing.
Title to the property is conveyed by tenure number registered with British Columbia, the specifics of which are shown in the following table and claims map. Note that the green areas on the claims map are patented claims (Crown Grants) that are owned by other parties and not part of the property.
The property is known to contain silver, lead, and zinc mineralization as evidenced from the production records from several past-producing mines on the property, notably the Hampton, Riverside, and Slocan Prince mines.
Production records at the Hampton mine show that intermittent production from 1900 to 1940 amounted to a total of 90 tonnes of ore grading 16,817 grams per tonne silver, 2 per cent lead and ancillary zinc (Source: MINFILE 082FNW143).
Production records at the Riverside mine show that in the period 1935 to 1937, production totaled 18 tonnes, yielding 27,619 grams of silver, 453 kilograms of lead and 419 kilograms of zinc (Source: MINFILE 082FNW144).
Production records at the Slocan Prince mine show total ore production up to 1970 amounted to 1,906 tonnes containing 7,045,304 grams of silver, 128,781 kilograms of lead and 11,852 kilograms of zinc (Source: MINFILE 082FNW140).
In 2008, the Company entered into a joint-venture agreement with Hidalgo Mining International Inc. ("Hidalgo") to explore and develop the Silver Leaf Property. Terms of the agreement called for Hidalgo to commit up to $1.25 million USD over three years for developmental drilling and surface ore recovery, and to make an initial payment to North Bay of $50,000 USD. In lieu of cash, the Company agreed to accept payment as 6,329,114 shares of HMIT stock. Hidalgo was also committed to maintain the claims in good standing by applying any work expenditures towards the claims, or else pay the required British Columbia Cash-in-Lieu fees. In October 2009, Hidalgo informed the Company that it could not meet its commitments, and the joint-venture was terminated. The Company has not issued any of its own stock in connection with this joint-venture, and to the best of our knowledge Hidalgo does not own any shares of the Company.
The Company has no plans at the present time to explore the property independently, and intends to engage a new joint-venture partner to fund the project. There is no guarantee the Company will be successful in this effort. Subsequent to December 31, 2010, the Company signed an agreement to sell the Silver Leaf, along with several other mineral claims in the Slocan district, to Yardley Mountain Gold Corp. This transaction is still pending, and an initial $10,000 deposit has been received.
The Gold Hill Project is located due west of the village of Salmo in southeastern British Columbia, and covers 2,932 hectares (7,242 acres).
With the exception of patented claims known as Crown Grants shown on the map below, the Company owns a 100% undivided interest in the mineral rights underlying the property, the surface of which is owned by the Province of British Columbia, also known as Crown Land. Our registered claims convey to us the mineral rights for mining-related purposes only, and while our rights allow us to use the surface of a mineral claim for mining and exploration activities, our claims do not convey any residential or recreational rights to the Company. The property is without known reserves, and is exploratory in nature.
The Gold Hill Property was acquired by the direct staking of claims by the Company and payment of the required registration fees to the Province of British Columbia. The registration fees for the Gold Hill claims were $1,173, determined by the statutory fee of $0.40 per hectare for a mineral claim. The initial term of any claim staked in British Columbia is one year. This term may be extended for up to 10 years at a time by filing a statement of work showing minimum expenditures on a mineral claim of $4 per hectare per year for the first 3 years, and $8 per hectare per year for each year thereafter, plus a registration fee of $0.40 per hectare. Based on this formula, the minimum annual work commitment required to maintain the Gold Hill property in good standing is currently $12,903. In the event no work is performed by the anniversary date of each claim, the claims may be extended for up to one year at a time by paying the work commitment as a fee to the Province of British Columbia, which is referred to as Cash In Lieu Of Work (“CIL fee”). The Company is currently responsible for the payment of all fees required to maintain this property in good standing.
Title to the property is conveyed by tenure number registered with British Columbia, the specifics of which are shown in the following table and claims map. Note that the green areas on the claims map are patented claims (Crown Grants) that are owned by other parties and not part of the property.
The property is known to contain gold and silver mineralization as evidenced from the production records from the past-producing Gold Hill mine. Production records at the Gold Hill mine show a total of 19 tonnes of ore were mined in 1932, 1934, and 1942 from which 560 grams of gold and 1,027 grams of silver were recovered (Source: MINFILE 082FSW204).
In 2008, the Company entered into a joint-venture agreement with Hidalgo Mining International Inc. ("Hidalgo") to explore and develop the Gold Hill Project. Terms of the agreement called for Hidalgo to commit up to $1.25 million USD over three years for developmental drilling and surface ore recovery. and to make an initial payment to North Bay of $50,000 USD. In lieu of cash, the Company agreed to accept payment as 3,546,100 shares of HMIT stock. Hidalgo was also committed to maintain the claims in good standing by applying any work expenditures towards the claims, or else pay the required British Columbia Cash-in-Lieu fees. In October 2009, Hidalgo informed the Company that it could not meet its commitments, and the joint-venture was terminated. The Company has not issued any of its own stock in connection with this joint-venture, and to the best of our knowledge Hidalgo does not own any shares of the Company.
The Company has no plans at the present time to explore the property independently, and intends to engage a new joint-venture partner to fund the project. There is no guarantee the Company will be successful in this effort.
Bouleau Creek Gold is a road-accessible property covering 950 hectares (2,347 acres) and is located 26 kilometres west of Vernon in southeastern British Columbia.
The Company owns a 100% undivided interest in the mineral rights underlying the property, the surface of which is owned by the Province of British Columbia, also known as Crown Land. Our registered claims convey to us the mineral rights for mining-related purposes only, and while our rights allow us to use the surface of a mineral claim for mining and exploration activities, our claims do not convey any residential or recreational rights to the Company. The property is without known reserves, and is exploratory in nature.
With the exception of tenures 578838 and 579151, the Bouleau Creek Property was acquired by the direct staking of claims by the Company and payment of the required registration fees to the Province of British Columbia. Tenures 578838 and 579151 were gifted to the Company by Speebo, Inc., a private company controlled by our Chief Executive Officer, Perry Leopold. The registration fees for the Bouleau Creek claims were $364, determined by the statutory fee of $0.40 per hectare for a mineral claim. The initial term of any claim staked in British Columbia is one year. This term may be extended for up to 10 years at a time by filing a statement of work showing minimum expenditures on a mineral claim of $4 per hectare per year for the first 3 years, and $8 per hectare per year for each year thereafter, plus a registration fee of $0.40 per hectare. Based on this formula, the minimum annual work commitment required to maintain the Bouleau Creek property in good standing is currently $4,180. In the event no work is performed by the anniversary date of each claim, the claims may be extended for up to one year at a time by paying the work commitment as a fee to the Province of British Columbia, which is referred to as Cash In Lieu Of Work (“CIL fee”). The Company is currently responsible for the payment of all fees required to maintain this property in good standing.
Title to the property is conveyed by tenure number registered with British Columbia, as shown in the following table and claims map.
As documented in British Columbia MINFILE 082LSW069, Bouleau Creek features gold and silver mineralization over an area of approximately 1,000 by 600 metres. The northern portion of the property above Bouleau Creek includes the Siwash prospect, which is documented in BC MINFILE 082LSW046 as an area of gold and silver mineralization that extends over an area measuring 3,000 by 750 metres.
The Company has no plans at the present time to explore the property independently, and intends to engage a joint-venture partner to fund the project. There is no guarantee the Company will be successful in this effort.
The Tulameen Platinum Project covers 231 hectares (571 acres) and is located along the Tulameen River in the Cascade Mountains of southwestern British Columbia, approximately 150 kilometres northeast of Vancouver.
The Company owns a 100% undivided interest in the mineral rights underlying the property, the surface of which is owned by the Province of British Columbia, also known as Crown Land. Our registered claims convey to us the mineral rights for mining-related purposes only, and while our rights allow us to use the surface of a mineral claim for mining and exploration activities, our claims do not convey any residential or recreational rights to the Company. The property is without known reserves, and is exploratory in nature.
The Tulameen Platinum Property was acquired by the direct staking of claims by the Company and payment of the required registration fees to the Province of British Columbia. The registration fees for the Tulameen Platinum claims were $92, determined by the statutory fee of $0.40 per hectare for a mineral claim. The initial term of any claim staked in British Columbia is one year. This term may be extended for up to 10 years at a time by filing a statement of work showing minimum expenditures on a mineral claim of $4 per hectare per year for the first 3 years, and $8 per hectare per year for each year thereafter, plus a registration fee of $0.40 per hectare. Based on this formula, the minimum annual work commitment required to maintain the Tulameen Platinum property in good standing is currently $1,016. In the event no work is performed by the anniversary date of each claim, the claims may be extended for up to one year at a time by paying the work commitment as a fee to the Province of British Columbia, which is referred to as Cash In Lieu Of Work (“CIL fee”). The Company is currently responsible for the payment of all fees required to maintain this property in good standing.
Title to the property is conveyed by tenure number registered with British Columbia, the specifics of which are shown in the following table and claims map.
As documented in BC MINFILE 092HNE128, this occurrence is hosted in the dunite-rich core of the Early Jurassic Tulameen Ultramafic Complex, a zoned Alaskan-type intrusive complex. Mineralization occurs in a serpentine breccia zone containing fragments of dunite/peridotite cemented by a matrix of serpentine. The zone is 180 metres long, up to 155 metres wide and lies mostly north of the river, on either side of the creek. Platinum occurs in elevated values in the breccia and in the surrounding dunite/peridotite.
The Company has no plans at the present time to explore the property independently, and intends to engage a joint-venture partner to fund the project. There is no guarantee the Company will be successful in this effort.
The Silver Cup Ridge Property is located approximately 70 kilometres southeast of Revelstoke in southeastern British Columbia. The property covers 883 hectares (2,181 acres).
The Company owns a 100% undivided interest in the mineral rights underlying the property, the surface of which is owned by the Province of British Columbia, also known as Crown Land. Our registered claims convey to us the mineral rights for mining-related purposes only, and while our rights allow us to use the surface of a mineral claim for mining and exploration activities, our claims do not convey any residential or recreational rights to the Company. The property is without known reserves, and is exploratory in nature.
The Silver Cup Ridge Property was acquired by the direct staking of claims by the Company and payment of the required registration fees to the Province of British Columbia. The registration fees for the Silver Cup Ridge claims were $353, determined by the statutory fee of $0.40 per hectare for a mineral claim. The initial term of any claim staked in British Columbia is one year. This term may be extended for up to 10 years at a time by filing a statement of work showing minimum expenditures on a mineral claim of $4 per hectare per year for the first 3 years, and $8 per hectare per year for each year thereafter, plus a registration fee of $0.40 per hectare. Based on this formula, the minimum annual work commitment required to maintain the Silver Cup Ridge property in good standing is currently $3,885. In the event no work is performed by the anniversary date of each claim, the claims may be extended for up to one year at a time by paying the work commitment as a fee to the Province of British Columbia, which is referred to as Cash In Lieu Of Work (“CIL fee”). The Company is currently responsible for the payment of all fees required to maintain this property in good standing.
Title to the property is conveyed by tenure number registered with British Columbia, the specifics of which are shown in the following table and claims map.
As documented in BC MINFILEs 082KNW116, 082KNW113, and 082KNW220, the Silver Cup Ridge property features gold, silver, copper, and lead mineralization over five separate prospects, the most notable being the Fays Peak Copper, Skyline, and Golden Crown occurrences.
The Company has no plans at the present time to explore the property independently, and intends to engage a joint-venture partner to fund the project. There is no guarantee the Company will be successful in this effort.
The Lardeau Creek Property covers 594 hectares (1,467 acres) and is located near the head of Lardeau Creek approximately 10 kilometres east of Trout Lake in southeastern British Columbia. The property is situated within the former Trout Lake Mining Division, a well known Kootenay Silver Camp, and is approximately 4 kilometres north of the Company's Silver Cup Ridge property.
The Company owns a 100% undivided interest in the mineral rights underlying the property, the surface of which is owned by the Province of British Columbia, also known as Crown Land. Our registered claims convey to us the mineral rights for mining-related purposes only, and while our rights allow us to use the surface of a mineral claim for mining and exploration activities, our claims do not convey any residential or recreational rights to the Company. The property is without known reserves, and is exploratory in nature.
The Lardeau Creek Property was acquired by the direct staking of claims by the Company and payment of the required registration fees to the Province of British Columbia. The registration fees for the Lardeau Creek claims were $238, determined by the statutory fee of $0.40 per hectare for a mineral claim. The initial term of any claim staked in British Columbia is one year. This term may be extended for up to 10 years at a time by filing a statement of work showing minimum expenditures on a mineral claim of $4 per hectare per year for the first 3 years, and $8 per hectare per year for each year thereafter, plus a registration fee of $0.40 per hectare. Based on this formula, the minimum annual work commitment required to maintain the Lardeau Creek property in good standing is currently $2,614. In the event no work is performed by the anniversary date of each claim, the claims may be extended for up to one year at a time by paying the work commitment as a fee to the Province of British Columbia, which is referred to as Cash In Lieu Of Work (“CIL fee”). The Company is currently responsible for the payment of all fees required to maintain this property in good standing.
Title to the property is conveyed by tenure number registered with British Columbia, the specifics of which are shown in the following table and claims map.
As documented in BC MINFILE 082KNW178 and related assessment reports, the Lardeau Creek Property features an ultramafic unit which in places hosts platinum mineralization, and a NW striking shear zone which hosts galena, sphalerite and pyrite as well as tetrahedrite.
The Company has no plans at the present time to explore the property independently, and intends to engage a joint-venture partner to fund the project. There is no guarantee the Company will be successful in this effort.
The Rachel Property is located approximately 17 kilometres northwest of the village Salmo in southeastern British Columbia, and covers 337 hectares (832 acres).
The Company owns a 100% undivided interest in the mineral rights underlying the property, the surface of which is owned by the Province of British Columbia, also known as Crown Land. Our registered claims convey to us the mineral rights for mining-related purposes only, and while our rights allow us to use the surface of a mineral claim for mining and exploration activities, our claims do not convey any residential or recreational rights to the Company. The property is without known reserves, and is exploratory in nature.
The Rachel Property was acquired by the direct staking of claims by the Company and payment of the required registration fees to the Province of British Columbia. The registration fees for the Rachel claims were $135, determined by the statutory fee of $0.40 per hectare for a mineral claim. The initial term of any claim staked in British Columbia is one year. This term may be extended for up to 10 years at a time by filing a statement of work showing minimum expenditures on a mineral claim of $4 per hectare per year for the first 3 years, and $8 per hectare per year for each year thereafter, plus a registration fee of $0.40 per hectare. Based on this formula, the minimum annual work commitment required to maintain the Rachel property in good standing is currently $1,483. In the event no work is performed by the anniversary date of each claim, the claims may be extended for up to one year at a time by paying the work commitment as a fee to the Province of British Columbia, which is referred to as Cash In Lieu Of Work (“CIL fee”). The Company is currently responsible for the payment of all fees required to maintain this property in good standing.
Title to the property is conveyed by tenure number registered with British Columbia, the specifics of which are shown in the following table and claims map.
As documented in British Columbia government records, the Rachel is known to contain gold, silver and lead mineralization. In 1980, Kimberley Gold Mines removed 14 tonnes of ore from the adit, yielding an average assay of 66.64 grams per tonne gold, 271.5 grams per tonne silver, and 9.42 per cent lead (Source: MINFILE 082FSW299).
The Company has no plans at the present time to explore the property independently, and intends to engage a joint-venture partner to fund the project. There is no guarantee the Company will be successful in this effort.
The Monte Cristo Property is located in a wide section of the Lillooet River Valley, approximately 31 kilometers northwest of the north end of Harrison Lake in south-central British Columbia. It covers 332 hectares (820 acres).
The Company owns a 100% undivided interest in the placer rights underlying the property, the surface of which is owned by the Province of British Columbia, also known as Crown Land. Our registered claims convey to us the placer rights for mining-related purposes only, and while our rights allow us to use the surface of a placer claim for mining and exploration activities, our claims do not convey any residential or recreational rights to the Company. The property is without known reserves, and is exploratory in nature. Subsequent to the acquisition, British Columbia created a reserve that does not allow any further staking of placer claims. However, as our claims were pre-existing, our placer rights have been grandfathered and remain valid for as long as we continue to maintain the property in good standing. The property is also adjacent to an Indian reservation, and any exploration or development work will require the approval of the local First Nations council.
The Monte Cristo Property was acquired in August 2006 by way of purchase from a private individual. Consideration paid was $9,750 USD cash and 130,000 shares of common stock, plus a 2% NSR. The claims may be maintained in good standing for up to 10 years at a time by filing a statement of work with the Province of British Columbia showing minimum expenditures on each placer claim of $10 per hectare per year, plus a registration fee of $2.00 per hectare. Based on this formula, the minimum annual work commitment required to maintain the Monte Cristo property in good standing is currently $3,984. In the event no work is performed by the anniversary date of each claim, the claims may be extended for up to one year at a time by paying the work commitment as a fee to the Province of British Columbia, which is referred to as Cash In Lieu Of Work (“CIL fee”). The Company is currently responsible for the payment of all fees required to maintain this property in good standing.
Title to the property is conveyed by tenure number registered with British Columbia, the specifics of which are shown in the following table and claims map.
As documented in BC MINFILEs 092GNE019 and 092GNE013, the mineralization of the property consists of precious metal bearing sands that cover a 400 to 800 meter wide section of the Lillooet River valley. These post-Pleistocene sands contain gold and platinum in submicron sized particles. In 1970, a 1.4 kilogram sample of sand, taken at least a meter below surface, assayed 2.47 grams per tonne gold, 4.80 grams per tonne silver, 2.77 grams per tonne platinum, and 2.71 grams per tonne palladium.
The Company has no plans at the present time to explore the property independently, and intends to engage a joint-venture partner to fund the project. There is no guarantee the Company will be successful in this effort.
The Connie Hill Property is located on Vancouver Island, approximately 15 kilometres northwest of Courtenay in southwestern British Columbia, and covers 1,627 hectares (4,019 acres).
The Company owns a 100% undivided interest in the mineral rights underlying the property, the surface of which is owned by the Province of British Columbia, also known as Crown Land. Our registered claims convey to us the mineral rights for mining-related purposes only, and while our rights allow us to use the surface of a mineral claim for mining and exploration activities, our claims do not convey any residential or recreational rights to the Company. The property is without known reserves, and is exploratory in nature.
The Connie Hill Property was acquired by the direct staking of claims by the Company and payment of the required registration fees to the Province of British Columbia. The registration fees for the Connie Hill claims were $651, determined by the statutory fee of $0.40 per hectare for a mineral claim. The initial term of any claim staked in British Columbia is one year. This term may be extended for up to 10 years at a time by filing a statement of work showing minimum expenditures on a mineral claim of $4 per hectare per year for the first 3 years, and $8 per hectare per year for each year thereafter, plus a registration fee of $0.40 per hectare. Based on this formula, the minimum annual work commitment required to maintain the Connie Hill property in good standing is currently $7,161. In the event no work is performed by the anniversary date of each claim, the claims may be extended for up to one year at a time by paying the work commitment as a fee to the Province of British Columbia, which is referred to as Cash In Lieu Of Work (“CIL fee”). The Company is currently responsible for the payment of all fees required to maintain this property in good standing.
Title to the property is conveyed by tenure number registered with British Columbia, the specifics of which are shown in the following table and claims map.
As documented in British Columbia government records, the property is known to contain gold, silver zinc, copper, and lead mineralization. A sample of the zone material taken from the Lupus showing (aka Connie Hill) across 0.90 metres assayed 4.42 grams per tonne gold, 20.57 grams per tonne silver, 0.60% zinc, 0.15% copper, 1.59% lead and 0.01% arsenic (Source: MINFILE 092F 308).
The Company has no plans at the present time to explore the property independently, and intends to engage a joint-venture partner to fund the project. There is no guarantee the Company will be successful in this effort.
The Argo Gold Property is located 10 kilometres west of the south end of Tatlayako Lake, approximately 168 miles northwest of Vancouver, British Columbia. It covers 463 hectares (1,144 acres) and includes ten reverted crown grants.
The mineralized area of economic interest covers several square kilometres immediately south of Ottarasko Creek. The strike length is estimated as being at least 3 kilometres long, and is up to 300 metres in width. The target prospects are known as the Langara, the Standard, and the Argo.
The Company owns a 100% undivided interest in the mineral rights underlying the property, the surface of which is owned by the Province of British Columbia, also known as Crown Land. Our registered claims convey to us the mineral rights for mining-related purposes only, and while our rights allow us to use the surface of a mineral claim for mining and exploration activities, our claims do not convey any residential or recreational rights to the Company. The property is without known reserves, and is exploratory in nature.
The Argo Property was acquired by the direct staking of claims by the Company and payment of the required registration fees to the Province of British Columbia. The registration fees for the Argo claims were $185, determined by the statutory fee of $0.40 per hectare for a mineral claim. The initial term of any claim staked in British Columbia is one year. This term may be extended for up to 10 years at a time by filing a statement of work showing minimum expenditures on a mineral claim of $4 per hectare per year for the first 3 years, and $8 per hectare per year for each year thereafter, plus a registration fee of $0.40 per hectare. Based on this formula, the minimum annual work commitment required to maintain the Argo property in good standing is currently $2,037. In the event no work is performed by the anniversary date of each claim, the claims may be extended for up to one year at a time by paying the work commitment as a fee to the Province of British Columbia, which is referred to as Cash In Lieu Of Work (“CIL fee”). The Company is currently responsible for the payment of all fees required to maintain this property in good standing.
Title to the property is conveyed by tenure number registered with British Columbia, the specifics of which are shown in the following table and claims map.
As documented in British Columbia government records, the Argo property is known to contain gold and silver mineralization. On the Standard occurrence, mineralization is traceable for 75 metres over a width of 1 to 2 metres, with assays at 15 grams per tonne gold and 20.6 grams per tonne silver over 2 metres (Source: BC MINFILE 092N 037).
The Company has no plans at the present time to explore the property independently, and intends to engage a joint-venture partner to fund the project. There is no guarantee the Company will be successful in this effort.
The North Star Silver Property is situated in the historic Slocan Silver mining camp, and is located 1.5 kilometres east of Slocan Lake and approximately 4 kilomtres south of the village of Silverton in southeastern British Columbia. It covers 333 hectares (823 acres), and encompasses 3 past-producing mines; the Freddy, Noonday, and Buster.
The Company owns a 100% undivided interest in the mineral rights underlying the property as shown on the map below. With the exception of any patented claims (known in British Columbia as Crown Grants), the surface of the tenure is owned by the Province of British Columbia. The active Crown Grants within our tenure have been excluded from the map below, so that the map only shows the area to which our mineral rights extend. Our registered claims convey to us these mineral rights for mining-related purposes only, and while our rights allow us to use the surface of a mineral claim for mining and exploration activities, our claims do not convey any residential or recreational rights to the Company. The property is without known reserves, and is exploratory in nature.
The North Star Property was acquired by the direct staking of claims by the Company and payment of the required registration fees to the Province of British Columbia. The registration fees for the North Star claims were $133, determined by the statutory fee of $0.40 per hectare for a mineral claim. The initial term of any claim staked in British Columbia is one year. This term may be extended for up to 10 years at a time by filing a statement of work showing minimum expenditures on a mineral claim of $4 per hectare per year for the first 3 years, and $8 per hectare per year for each year thereafter, plus a registration fee of $0.40 per hectare. Based on this formula, the minimum annual work commitment required to maintain the North Star property in good standing is currently $1,465. In the event no work is performed by the anniversary date of each claim, the claims may be extended for up to one year at a time by paying the work commitment as a fee to the Province of British Columbia, which is referred to as Cash In Lieu Of Work (“CIL fee”). Additional claims have been subsequently staked adjacent to the property, but tenure 574560 is considered the core holding that contains the property’s known mineralization. The Company is currently responsible for the payment of all fees required to maintain this property in good standing.
Title to the property is conveyed by tenure number 574560 registered with British Columbia, the specifics of which are shown in the following table and claims map.
Production records for the Freddy indicate 228 tonnes of ore mined between 1962 and 1973. This ore yielded 396,345 grams silver, 715 grams gold, 1,245 kilograms lead, and 1,023 kilograms zinc. (Source: MINFILE 082FNW209).
Production records indicate 2 tonnes of ore were mined from the Buster in 1935. This ore yielded 2,364 grams silver, 31 grams gold, 173 kilograms zinc and 150 kilograms lead. (Source: MINFILE 082FNW188).
Production records show that the Noonday produced 577 tonnes of ore intermittently from 1899 to 1980, with the bulk of production in the 1950s. From this ore, 1,531,885 grams silver, 93 grams gold, 240 kilograms cadmium, 105,159 kilograms lead and 13,861 kilograms zinc were recovered. Most of the production came from a single stope developed above the upper adit in 1899. (Source: MINFILE 082FNW068).
The Company has no plans at the present time to explore the property independently, and intends to engage a joint-venture partner to fund the project. There is no guarantee the Company will be successful in this effort. Subsequent to December 31, 2010, the Company signed an agreement to sell North Star Silver, along with several other mineral claims in the Slocan district, to Yardley Mountain Gold Corp. This transaction is still pending, and an initial $10,000 deposit has been received.
The Loughborough Gold Property is located on the east side of Loughborough Inlet, approximately 140 miles northwest of Vancouver, British Columbia, and covers 288 hectares (711 acres).
The Company owns a 100% undivided interest in the mineral rights underlying the property, the surface of which is owned by the Province of British Columbia, also known as Crown Land. Our registered claims convey to us the mineral rights for mining-related purposes only, and while our rights allow us to use the surface of a mineral claim for mining and exploration activities, our claims do not convey any residential or recreational rights to the Company. The property is without known reserves, and is exploratory in nature.
The Loughborough Property was acquired by the direct staking of claims by the Company and payment of the required registration fees to the Province of British Columbia. The registration fees for the Loughborough claims were $115, determined by the statutory fee of $0.40 per hectare for a mineral claim. The initial term of any claim staked in British Columbia is one year. This term may be extended for up to 10 years at a time by filing a statement of work showing minimum expenditures on a mineral claim of $4 per hectare per year for the first 3 years, and $8 per hectare per year for each year thereafter, plus a registration fee of $0.40 per hectare. Based on this formula, the minimum annual work commitment required to maintain the Loughborough property in good standing is currently $1,267. In the event no work is performed by the anniversary date of each claim, the claims may be extended for up to one year at a time by paying the work commitment as a fee to the Province of British Columbia, which is referred to as Cash In Lieu Of Work (“CIL fee”). The Company is currently responsible for the payment of all fees required to maintain this property in good standing.
Title to the property is conveyed by tenure number registered with British Columbia, the specifics of which are shown in the following table and claims map.
The property is known to contain gold, silver, and copper mineralization. Production records at the past-producing Loughborough Gold mine from 1935 to 1939 show that 114 ounces of gold, 457 ounces of silver, and 185 pounds of copper were produced from 122 tons mined and milled (Source: MINFILE 092K 048).
The Company has no plans at the present time to explore the property independently, and intends to engage a joint-venture partner to fund the project. There is no guarantee the Company will be successful in this effort.
The Lynx Gold Property covers 850 hectares (3,000 acres) and is located approximately 75 miles southeast of Vernon in southeastern British Columbia.
The Company owns a 100% undivided interest in the mineral rights underlying the property, the surface of which is owned by the Province of British Columbia, also known as Crown Land. Our registered claims convey to us the mineral rights for mining-related purposes only, and while our rights allow us to use the surface of a mineral claim for mining and exploration activities, our claims do not convey any residential or recreational rights to the Company. The property is without known reserves, and is exploratory in nature.
The Lynx Property was acquired by the direct staking of claims by the Company and payment of the required registration fees to the Province of British Columbia. The registration fees for the Lynx claims were $340, determined by the statutory fee of $0.40 per hectare for a mineral claim. The initial term of any claim staked in British Columbia is one year. This term may be extended for up to 10 years at a time by filing a statement of work showing minimum expenditures on a mineral claim of $4 per hectare per year for the first 3 years, and $8 per hectare per year for each year thereafter, plus a registration fee of $0.40 per hectare. Based on this formula, the minimum annual work commitment required to maintain the Lynx property in good standing is currently $3,740. In the event no work is performed by the anniversary date of each claim, the claims may be extended for up to one year at a time by paying the work commitment as a fee to the Province of British Columbia, which is referred to as Cash In Lieu Of Work (“CIL fee”). The Company is currently responsible for the payment of all fees required to maintain this property in good standing.
Title to the property is conveyed by tenure number registered with British Columbia, the specifics of which are shown in the following table and claims map.
The property is known to contain gold and silver mineralization. One drill intersection of the vein assayed 3.77 grams per tonne gold over 0.6 metres. Another intersection assayed 28.52 grams per tonne gold, 13.4 grams per tonne silver and 0.01 per cent copper across 1.07 metres (Source: MINFILE 082LSE055).
The Company has no plans at the present time to explore the property independently, and intends to engage a joint-venture partner to fund the project. There is no guarantee the Company will be successful in this effort.
Cherry Gold is a road-accessible property that covers 1200 hectares (2,964 acres) located 9 kilometres east of Cherryville in southeastern British Columbia.
The Company owns a 100% undivided interest in the mineral rights underlying the property, the surface of which is owned by the Province of British Columbia, also known as Crown Land. Our registered claims convey to us the mineral rights for mining-related purposes only, and while our rights allow us to use the surface of a mineral claim for mining and exploration activities, our claims do not convey any residential or recreational rights to the Company. The property is without known reserves, and is exploratory in nature.
The Cherry Gold Property was acquired by the direct staking of claims by the Company and payment of the required registration fees to the Province of British Columbia. The registration fees for the Cherry Gold claims were $480, determined by the statutory fee of $0.40 per hectare for a mineral claim. The initial term of any claim staked in British Columbia is one year. This term may be extended for up to 10 years at a time by filing a statement of work showing minimum expenditures on a mineral claim of $4 per hectare per year for the first 3 years, and $8 per hectare per year for each year thereafter, plus a registration fee of $0.40 per hectare. Based on this formula, the minimum annual work commitment required to maintain the Cherry Gold property in good standing is currently $5,280. In the event no work is performed by the anniversary date of each claim, the claims may be extended for up to one year at a time by paying the work commitment as a fee to the Province of British Columbia, which is referred to as Cash In Lieu Of Work (“CIL fee”). The Company is currently responsible for the payment of all fees required to maintain this property in good standing.
Title to the property is conveyed by tenure number registered with British Columbia, the specifics of which are shown in the following table and claims map.
The property is known to contain gold, silver, and lead mineralization, as documented in BC MINFILE 082LSE063.
The Company has no plans at the present time to explore the property independently, and intends to engage a joint-venture partner to fund the project. There is no guarantee the Company will be successful in this effort.
Pine River Vanadium covers 733 hectares (1,810 acres) and is located in the Pine River Valley of north-central British Columbia, approximately 700 kilometres northeast of Vancouver and about 600 kilometres northwest of Edmonton, Alberta. While its location is remote, the property has excellent infrastructure with regard to both transportation and energy. A paved highway passes through and alongside the claims, which also runs parallel with the Pine River. The B.C. Railway crosses on the opposite side of the valley as does the Peace River Power transmission line. Natural gas and oil pipelines also follow the highway through the valley.
The Company owns a 100% undivided interest in the mineral rights underlying the property, the surface of which is owned by the Province of British Columbia, also known as Crown Land. Our registered claims convey to us the mineral rights for mining-related purposes only, and while our rights allow us to use the surface of a mineral claim for mining and exploration activities, our claims do not convey any residential or recreational rights to the Company. The property is without known reserves, and is exploratory in nature.
With the exception of tenures 623083, the Pine River Property was acquired by the direct staking of claims by the Company and payment of the required registration fees to the Province of British Columbia. Tenure 623083 was gifted to the Company by Speebo, Inc., a private company controlled by our Chief Executive Officer, Perry Leopold. The registration fees for the Pine River claims were $293, determined by the statutory fee of $0.40 per hectare for a mineral claim. The initial term of any claim staked in British Columbia is one year. This term may be extended for up to 10 years at a time by filing a statement of work showing minimum expenditures on a mineral claim of $4 per hectare per year for the first 3 years, and $8 per hectare per year for each year thereafter, plus a registration fee of $0.40 per hectare. Based on this formula, the minimum annual work commitment required to maintain the Pine River property in good standing is currently $3,225. In the event no work is performed by the anniversary date of each claim, the claims may be extended for up to one year at a time by paying the work commitment as a fee to the Province of British Columbia, which is referred to as Cash In Lieu Of Work (“CIL fee”). The Company is currently responsible for the payment of all fees required to maintain this property in good standing.
Title to the property is conveyed by tenure number registered with British Columbia, the specifics of which are shown in the following table and claims map.
Sampling documented in BC MINFILE 093O 009 has defined a vanadium-bearing zone with a length of 200 metres and an estimated true width of 100 metres.
The Company has no plans at the present time to explore the property independently, and intends to engage a joint-venture partner to fund the project. There is no guarantee the Company will be successful in this effort.
New Eskay Creek is located in northwestern British Columbia, approximately 70 kilometres north of Stewart, and consists of 2,080 hectares (5,138 acres). Road access is provided by the Eskay Creek Mine Road, which extends from the Stewart-Cassiar Highway at Bob Quinn Lake and traverses through the western portion of the Company’s claims before it reaches the Eskay Creek Mine.
The Company owns a 100% undivided interest in the mineral rights underlying the property, the surface of which is owned by the Province of British Columbia, also known as Crown Land. Our registered claims convey to us the mineral rights for mining-related purposes only, and while our rights allow us to use the surface of a mineral claim for mining and exploration activities, our claims do not convey any residential or recreational rights to the Company. The property is without known reserves, and is exploratory in nature.
The New Eskay Creek Property was acquired by the direct staking of claims by the Company and payment of the required registration fees to the Province of British Columbia. Additional ground was subsequently acquired by way of an arms-length in-kind property swap with an adjacent claim holder in a verbal agreement that did not involve any payment of any kind by either party. The registration fees for the New Eskay Creek claims were $832, determined by the statutory fee of $0.40 per hectare for a mineral claim. The initial term of any claim staked in British Columbia is one year. This term may be extended for up to 10 years at a time by filing a statement of work showing minimum expenditures on a mineral claim of $4 per hectare per year for the first 3 years, and $8 per hectare per year for each year thereafter, plus a registration fee of $0.40 per hectare. Based on this formula, the minimum annual work commitment required to maintain the New Eskay Creek property in good standing is currently $9,152. In the event no work is performed by the anniversary date of each claim, the claims may be extended for up to one year at a time by paying the work commitment as a fee to the Province of British Columbia, which is referred to as Cash In Lieu Of Work (“CIL fee”). The Company is currently responsible for the payment of all fees required to maintain this property in good standing.
Title to the property is conveyed by tenure number registered with British Columbia, the specifics of which are shown in the following table and claims map.
According to British Columbia government records documented in BC MINFILE 104B 008, the major geological structure at Eskay Creek is known to trend to the north-northeast. This trend runs through the New Eskay Creek property, which to date remains unexplored.
The Company has no plans at the present time to explore the property independently, and intends to engage a joint-venture partner to fund the project. There is no guarantee the Company will be successful in this effort.
Truax Gold is a road-accessible property located near Gold Bridge and Bralorne in southwestern British Columbia, approximately 150 miles north of Vancouver. It extends over 2,225 hectares (5,496 acres) from Mt. Truax westward to within 3 miles of the historic Bralorne and Pioneer mines.
The Company owns a 100% undivided interest in the mineral rights underlying the property, the surface of which is owned by the Province of British Columbia, also known as Crown Land. Our registered claims convey to us the mineral rights for mining-related purposes only, and while our rights allow us to use the surface of a mineral claim for mining and exploration activities, our claims do not convey any residential or recreational rights to the Company. The property is without known reserves, and is exploratory in nature.
The Truax Property was acquired by the direct staking of claims by the Company and payment of the required registration fees to the Province of British Columbia. The registration fees for the Truax claims were $890, determined by the statutory fee of $0.40 per hectare for a mineral claim. The initial term of any claim staked in British Columbia is one year. This term may be extended for up to 10 years at a time by filing a statement of work showing minimum expenditures on a mineral claim of $4 per hectare per year for the first 3 years, and $8 per hectare per year for each year thereafter, plus a registration fee of $0.40 per hectare. Based on this formula, the minimum annual work commitment required to maintain the Truax property in good standing is currently $9,790. In the event no work is performed by the anniversary date of each claim, the claims may be extended for up to one year at a time by paying the work commitment as a fee to the Province of British Columbia, which is referred to as Cash In Lieu Of Work (“CIL fee”). The Company is currently responsible for the payment of all fees required to maintain this property in good standing.
Title to the property is conveyed by tenure number registered with British Columbia, the specifics of which are shown in the following table and claims map.
The property is known to contain gold and silver mineralization, as documented in BC MINFILE 092JNE060.
The Company has no plans at the present time to explore the property independently, and intends to engage a joint-venture partner to fund the project. There is no guarantee the Company will be successful in this effort.
Item 3.