Item 2. Properties
We make real estate investments directly through entities wholly-owned by the Operating Partnership, or indirectly through other entities. The following tables provide additional information regarding the 12 properties in which we owned interests as of December 31, 2011:
(1) We own a 100% interest in each of the properties through the Operating Partnership with the exception of the Brindleyplace Project. On December 31, 2011, the Company owned a 99.98% interest in the Operating Partnership as its sole general partner. Affiliates of Hines owned the remaining 0.02% interest in the Operating Partnership. We own a 60% interest in the Brindleyplace Project through our investment in the Brindleyplace JV.
(2) The estimated going-in capitalization rate is determined as of the date of acquisition by dividing the projected property revenues in excess of expenses for the first fiscal year following the date of acquisition by the net purchase price (excluding closing costs and taxes). Property revenues in excess of expenses includes all projected operating revenues (rental income, tenant reimbursements, parking and any other property-related income) less all projected operating expenses (property operating and maintenance expenses, property taxes, insurance and property management fees). The projected property revenues in excess of expenses includes assumptions which may not be indicative of the actual future performance of the property, and the actual economic performance of each property for our period of ownership may differ materially from the amounts used in calculating the estimated going-in capitalization rate. These include assumptions, with respect to each property, that in-place tenants will continue to perform under their lease agreements during the 12 months following our acquisition of the property. In addition, with respect to the Brindleyplace Project, Hock Plaza, Southpark, Fifty South Sixth, and Fisher Plaza these include assumptions concerning estimates of timing and rental rates related to re-leasing vacant space. They also concern assumptions, with respect to the Brindleyplace Project, that leases subject to rent reviews during the 12 months following our acquisition of the property will be adjusted to market rates.
(3) This amount was translated from British pounds, which we refer to as GBP, to U.S. dollars at a rate of $1.61 per GBP, based on the transaction date.
(4) This amount was translated from GBP to U.S. dollars at a rate of $1.52 per GBP, based on the transaction date.
(5) This amount represents the percentage leased assuming we own a 100% interest in each of these properties. The percentage leased based on our effective ownership interest in each property is 97%.
Other Real Estate Investments
In addition, we have the following other real estate investments as of December 31, 2011:
·
One Waterwall JV - 93% interest in a joint venture that was formed to invest in a multi-family development project in Houston, Texas. An affiliate of Hines owns the remaining 7% interest in this joint venture. The joint venture acquired the land in December 2011. Construction is expected to begin in June 2012 and be completed by March 2014, although there can be no assurances as to when construction will be completed.
·
Ashford at Brookhaven Development - $3.25 million loan commitment to a multi-family development project in Atlanta, Georgia, which is being developed by an affiliate of Hines. We are providing pre-construction financing to the project and has a $1.9 million loan receivable outstanding as of December 31, 2011. The project acquired the land in November 2011. Construction is expected to begin in July 2012 and be completed by December 2013, although there can be no assurances as to when construction will be completed.
·
Flagship Capital JV - 97% interest in a joint venture with Flagship Capital GP, which was formed to provide approximately $39.0 million of financing for real estate projects. The joint venture has a $2.9 million loan receivable outstanding as of December 31, 2011. Flagship Capital GP owns the remaining 3% interest in the joint venture.
Lease Expirations
The following table lists our pro-rata share of the scheduled lease expirations for each of the years ending December 31, 2012 through December 31, 2021 and thereafter for all of the properties in which we owned an interest as of December 31, 2011. The table also shows the approximate leasable square feet represented by the applicable lease expirations:
Market Concentration
The following table provides a summary of the market concentration of our portfolio based on our pro-rata share of the market value of each of the properties in which we owned interests as of December 31, 2011. The estimated value of each property is based on the net purchase price since all assets were recently acquired:
Industry Concentration
The following table provides a summary of the industry concentration of the tenants of the properties in which we owned interests based on our pro-rata share of their leased square footage as of December 31, 2011:
Our Significant Investments
Set forth below is certain additional information about our significant properties.
The Brindleyplace Project
In July 2010, we acquired five office buildings including ground-floor retail, restaurant and theatre space, and a 903-space multi-story parking garage, located in Birmingham, England, which we refer to as the Brindleyplace Project. Each of the properties was constructed from 1997-2000. British Telecom, a telecommunication firm, leased 133,084 square feet or approximately 24% of the rentable area of the Brindleyplace Project, under a lease that expired in January 2012 and was not renewed. The annual base rent under the lease was approximately £3.1 million ($4.7 million assuming a rate of $1.52 per GBP based on the transaction date). The Royal Bank of Scotland PLC, a global banking and financial services company, which we refer to herein as RBS, leases 93,713 square feet or approximately 17% of the rentable area of the Brindleyplace Project, under a lease that expires in December 2028. The annual base rent under the lease is currently approximately £2.6 million ($3.9 million assuming a rate of $1.52 per GBP based on the transaction date), but is subject to rent reviews every five years (rent reviews are negotiations between the tenant and landlord to bring the annual base rent under a lease to a market rental rate). Rent reviews cannot result in decreased annual rent. In addition, the lease has a termination option, which permits RBS to terminate the lease in June 2022 with twelve months notice. Deloitte LLP, a company that provides auditing, consulting, financial advisory, risk management and tax services, leases 58,094 square feet or approximately 10% of the rentable area of the Brindleyplace Project, under a lease that expires in February 2016. The annual base rent under the lease is currently approximately £1.5 million ($2.2 million assuming a rate of $1.52 per GBP based on the transaction date), but is subject to rent reviews every 5 years. The remaining space is leased to 29 tenants, none of which individually leases more than 10% of the rentable area of the Brindleyplace Project.
The Brindleyplace Project is owned by a consolidated joint venture, which we refer to herein as the Brindleyplace JV, which is owned 60% and 40%, respectively, by the Operating Partnership and MREF II MH SARL, a subsidiary of Moorfield Real Estate Fund II GP Ltd., which we refer to herein as Moorfield.
The Brindleyplace Project receives property management services from GVA Grimley Limited which is not affiliated with us, our sponsor or our affiliates.
In accordance with the terms of the secured mortgage facility agreement with Eurohypo AG, the Brindleyplace JV was required to escrow a reserve in the amount of £3.5 million ($5.4 million assuming a rate of $1.55 per GBP as of December 31, 2011) for the refurbishment of one of the buildings of the Brindleyplace Project. The refurbishment commenced in early 2012 and the reserve will be released in reimbursement of qualified costs related to the refurbishment. The reserve was fully funded by January 2012.
The following table shows the weighted average occupancy rate, expressed as a percentage of rentable square feet, and the average effective annual gross rent per leased square foot for the Brindleyplace Project during the past five years ended December 31:
____________
(1)
Average effective annual gross rent per leased square foot for each year is calculated by dividing such year’s accrual-basis total rent revenue (excluding operating expense recoveries) by the weighted average square footage under lease during such year. All GBP amounts were translated to USD using the corresponding yearly average exchange rate. For our period of ownership, these amounts are net of tenant allowances such as free rent. For periods prior to our ownership, we do not have the records available to us to be able to quantify the impact of tenant concessions, if any. To the extent there were concessions which were not considered in the amounts provided to us, the average effective annual gross rent per leased square foot amounts could be lower than those amounts disclosed above.
The following table lists, on an aggregate basis, the approximate leasable square feet for all of the scheduled lease expirations for each of the years ending December 31, 2012 through December 31, 2021 and thereafter for the Brindleyplace Project as of December 31, 2010.
____________
(1)
Assuming an exchange rate of $1.55 per GBP based on the exchange rate in effect on December 31, 2011.
Fifty South Sixth
Fifty South Sixth, a 29-story office building located in Minneapolis, Minnesota, was constructed in 2001. Two tenants, Dorsey & Whitney LLP and Deloitte LLP, individually lease more than 10% of the rentable area of the building, as described below:
•
Dorsey & Whitney LLP, an international law firm, leases 333,265 square feet or approximately 48% of the building’s rentable area, under a lease that expires in September 2016. The annual base rent under the lease is currently approximately $6.8 million, but is subject to rent escalations. In addition, the lease provides the tenant with an option to terminate the lease prior to its expiration if the tenant gives notice six months in advance of the termination date and makes a payment equal to unamortized leasing costs.
•
Deloitte LLP, an auditing, consulting, financial advisory, risk management and tax services company, leases 142,788 square feet or approximately 20% of the building’s rentable area, under a lease that expires in June 2024. The annual base rent under the lease is currently approximately $3.1 million, but is subject to rent escalations. In addition, the lease has a termination option which permits the tenant to terminate the lease if notice is given by December 31, 2019 and the tenant makes a payment equal to six months gross rent plus unamortized leasing costs.
The remaining space is leased to 31 tenants, none of which leases more than 10% of the rentable area of Fifty South Sixth.
The following table shows the weighted average occupancy rate, expressed as a percentage of rentable square feet, and the average effective annual gross rent per leased square foot, for Fifty South Sixth during the past five years ended December 31:
____________
(1)
Average effective annual gross rent per leased square foot for each year is calculated by dividing such year’s accrual-basis total rent revenue (including operating expense recoveries) by the weighted average square footage under lease during such year. For our period of ownership, these amounts are net of tenant allowances such as free rent. For periods prior to our ownership, we do not have the records available to us to be able to quantify the impact of tenant concessions, if any. To the extent there were concessions which were not considered in the amounts provided to us, the average effective annual gross rent per leased square foot amounts could be lower than those amounts disclosed above.
The following table lists, on an aggregate basis, the approximate leasable square feet for all of the scheduled lease expirations for the years ending December 31, 2012 through 2021 and thereafter for Fifty South Sixth as of December 31, 2011.
Stonecutter Court
On March 11, 2011, a subsidiary of the Operating Partnership acquired all of the share capital of Sofina Properties Limited, which we refer to herein as Sofina, for the sole purpose of acquiring Stonecutter Court, a core office building with two adjacent, ancillary buildings located in London, United Kingdom. The Seller, Shalati Investments Limited, is not affiliated with us or our affiliates.
Stonecutter Court was constructed in 1995. Deloitte LLP, an auditing, consulting, financial advisory, risk management and tax services company, leases approximately 140,000 square feet or 92% of Stonecutter Court’s net rentable area, under a lease that expires in April 2019. The annual base rent under the lease is currently £6.2 million ($10.0 million assuming a rate of $1.61 per GBP based on the transaction date), but is subject to a rent review in November 2015. In the United Kingdom, a landlord has the right in accordance with the lease to review the rent at various intervals throughout the lease. The new rental rate is determined through this rent review process and will be the greater of the amount payable (excluding any rental abatements) immediately prior to the review date or the open market rent as agreed by both parties. The remaining space is leased to two tenants, neither of which individually leases more than 10% of the rentable area of the complex.
The following table shows the weighted average occupancy rate, expressed as a percentage of rentable square feet, and the average effective annual gross rent per leased square foot, for Stonecutter Court during the past five years ended December 31:
____________
(1)
Average effective annual gross rent per leased square foot for each year is calculated by dividing such year’s accrual basis total rent revenue (excluding operating expense recoveries) by the weighted average square footage under lease during such year. All GBP amounts were translated to USD using the corresponding yearly average exchange rate. For periods prior to our ownership, we do not have the records available to us to be able to quantify the impact of tenant concessions, if any. To the extent there were concessions which were not considered in the amounts provided to us, the average effective annual gross rent per leased square foot amounts could be lower than those amounts disclosed above.
The following table lists, on an aggregate basis, the approximate leasable square feet for all of the scheduled lease expirations for each of the years ending December 31, 2012 through 2021 and thereafter for Stonecutter Court.
____________
(1)
Assuming an exchange rate of $1.61 per GBP based on the exchange rate in effect on the transaction date of Stonecutter Court.
Fisher Plaza
On December 15, 2011, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Operating Partnership acquired Fisher Plaza, a two-building office complex located in Seattle, Washington. The seller, Fisher Media Services Company, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Fisher Communications, Inc., or Fisher, is not affiliated with us or our affiliates. Fisher Plaza has a variety of companies as tenants, including media and communications companies which in total aggregate to 27 tenants. Both Fisher and Internap Network Services Corporation individually lease more than 10% of the rentable area of the complex, as described below:
●
In connection with the sale, Fisher, a communications and local media company, entered into a lease of 120,969 square feet or approximately 41% of the buildings' net rentable area, that expires in December 2023. The annual base rent under the lease is currently $3.4 million and is subject to rent escalations. In addition, the lease provides Fisher with three, five-year renewal options. Fisher also has the right to reduce up to 20% of its leased net rentable area effective on January 1, 2016 and again on January 1, 2021 by delivering prior written notice and making a payment in an amount equal to six months of rent related to the terminated area. In no event can the aggregate reduction exceed 20% of Fisher's leased net rentable area.
●
Internap Network Services Corporation, a provider of IT infrastructure services, leases 35,609 square feet or approximately 12% of the buildings' net rentable area, under a lease that expires in February 2019. The annual base rent under the lease, excluding common area maintenance charges, is currently $3.5 million and is subject to annual rent escalations. In addition, the lease provides the tenant with an option to extend the lease for five years.
The remaining space is leased to 25 tenants, none of which leases more than 10% of the rentable area of Fisher Plaza.
The following table shows the weighted average occupancy rate, expressed as a percentage of rentable square feet, and the average effective annual gross rent per leased square foot, for Fisher Plaza during the past five years ended December 31:
(1) Average effective annual gross rent per leased square foot for each year is calculated by dividing such year’s accrual-basis total rent revenue (including operating expense recoveries) by the weighted average square footage under lease during such year. For periods prior to our ownership, we do not have the records available to us to be able to quantify the impact of tenant concessions, if any. To the extent there were concessions which were not considered in the amounts provided to us, the average effective annual gross rent per leased square foot amounts could be lower than those amounts disclosed above.
The following table lists, on an aggregate basis, the approximate leasable square feet for all of the scheduled lease expirations for each of the years ending December 31, 2012 through 2021 for Fisher Plaza. The table below includes the Fisher lease which was executed upon closing.
*These leases relate to tenants that lease communication equipment such as cages, cabinets and racks. 
Probable Acquisitions
Poland Logistics Portfolio
On December 22, 2011, wholly-owned subsidiaries of the Operating Partnership entered into a series of five related contracts with affiliates of ProLogis European Holdings (listed below) to acquire the following five separate logistics facilities in Poland: ProLogis Park Warsaw I, located in Warsaw, Poland; ProLogis Park Warsaw III, located in Warsaw, Poland; ProLogis Park Bedzin I, located in Upper Silesia, Poland; ProLogis Park Sosnowiec, located in Upper Silesia, Poland; and ProLogis Park Wroclaw II, located in Wroclaw, Poland. We refer to these five properties collectively as the "Poland Logistics Portfolio."
The sellers of the Poland Logistics Portfolio are: ProLogis Poland XCI s.a.r.l., ProLogis Poland XXXIX sp. z o.o., ProLogis Poland XCII sp. z o.o., ProLogis Poland XXI sp. z o.o., and ProLogis Poland XXIX sp. z o.o. None of the sellers are affiliated with us or our affiliates.
Each of the Poland Logistics Portfolio properties was constructed between 1995 and 2009. The Poland Logistics Portfolio consists of 2,270,056 square feet of rentable area that is 93.4% leased. Fagor Mastercook, Carrefour, and ABC Data individually lease more than 10% of the Poland Logistics Portfolio (as described below). The remaining space is leased to 23 tenants, none of which individually lease more than 10% of the rentable area of the Poland Logistics Portfolio.
●
Fagor Mastercook, a manufacturer of components for household appliances and other goods, leases approximately 497,045 square feet, or approximately 22% of the Poland Logistics Portfolio net rentable area, under a lease that expires in October 2019. The annual base rent under the lease is currently €1.7 million ($2.3 million using a rate of $1.3091 per Euro as of the contract date). The lease provides the tenant with two, five-year renewals unless either party informs the other with their intent not to extend nine months before the lease expiration.
●
Carrefour, a food retailer, leases approximately 492,750 square feet, or approximately 22% of the Poland Logistics Portfolio's net rentable area, under a lease that expires in October 2018. The annual base rent under the lease is currently €2.2 million ($2.9 million using a rate of $1.3091 per Euro as of the contract date). The lease provides the tenant with a termination option in March 2015 provided that written notice is given 12 months in advance of the termination date.
●
ABC Data, a distributor of software and hardware products, leases approximately 389,869 square feet, or approximately 17% of the Poland Logistics Portfolio's net rentable area under two leases that expire in July 2017 (covering 259,830 square feet of space) and October 2014 (covering 130,039 square feet of space). The combined annual base rent under both leases is currently €1.8 million ($2.4 million using a rate of $1.3091 per Euro as of the contract date). The lease (covering 130,039 square feet of space) provides the tenant with a termination option in April 2013 by providing written notice and a termination fee of €201,576 ($263,883 using a rate of $1.3091 per Euro as of the contract date). In addition, this lease provides the tenant with a three-year extension unless the tenant informs us with its intent not to extend six months before their lease expiration. Additionally, the lease (covering the 259,830 square feet of space) provides the tenant with an indefinite number of automatic five-year renewals unless the tenant informs us with their intent not to extend six months before its lease expiration.
The total contract purchase price for the Poland Logistics Portfolio is €118.4 million (approximately $155.0 million based on a rate of $1.3091 per Euro as of the contract date), exclusive of transaction costs and working capital reserves. We expect to fund the acquisition using proceeds from the Offering and debt financing. We have paid $23.5 million in earnest money deposits. We expect the closing of this acquisition to on or about March 29, 2012, subject to completing a number of customary closing conditions, which include obtaining customary regulatory approvals. There is no guarantee that this acquisition will be consummated, and, if we elect not to close on this acquisition, we could forfeit our earnest money deposits. On March 19, 2012, we executed a Bridge Loan Agreement to provide temporary financing for this acquisition. See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Recent Developments and Subsequent Events.”
In connection with this acquisition, we expect to pay the Advisor $3.1 million in acquisition fees.
The following table shows the weighted average occupancy rate, expressed as a percentage of rentable square feet, and the average effective annual gross rent per leased square foot, for the Poland Logistics Portfolio during the past five years ended December 31:
(1) Average effective annual gross rent per leased square foot for each year is calculated by dividing such year’s accrual-basis total rent revenue (including operating expense recoveries) by the weighted average square footage under lease during such year. For periods prior to our ownership, we do not have the records available to us to be able to quantify the impact of tenant concessions, if any. To the extent there were concessions which were not considered in the amounts provided to us, the average effective annual gross rent per leased square foot amounts could be lower than those amounts disclosed above. All Euro amounts were translated to USD using the corresponding yearly average exchange rate.
The following table lists, on an aggregate basis, the approximate leasable square feet for all of the scheduled lease expirations for each of the years ending December 31, 2012 through 2021 and thereafter for the Poland Logistics Portfolio.
(1)
Based on a rate of $1.3091 per Euro as of the contract date.
144 Montague
On February 20, 2012, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Operating Partnership, entered into a contract with Empirica Management Limited to acquire 144 Montague, an office building located in Brisbane, Australia. 144 Montague consists of 158,681 square feet of rentable area that is 100% leased to Ausenco Limited under a lease that expires in October 2021. The contract purchase price for 144 Montague is expected to be approximately $88.1 million Australian dollars ("AUD") ($94.9 million assuming a rate of $1.08 per AUD based on the transaction date), exclusive of transaction costs and working capital reserves and we expect to fund the acquisition using proceeds from our current public offering and debt financing. We expect the closing of this acquisition to occur on or before April 16, 2012, subject to completing a number of closing conditions. We funded nonrefundable deposits totaling $4.4 million AUD ($4.7 million using a rate of $1.08 per AUD as of the transaction date). There is no guarantee that this acquisition will be consummated, and, if we elect not to close on the acquisition of 144 Montague we could forfeit our earnest money deposits.
Item 3.