ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
Introduction
The New Dawn property is a gold prospect located in the northern Tuscarora Mountains in Elko County, Nevada, at the southwest edge of the Tuscarora mining district, approximately 45 miles northwest of the town of Elko. On August 11, 2008, we entered into a lease agreement with Altair Minerals, Inc. to explore and, if warranted, develop the New Dawn property. Altair Minerals, Inc. owns the four claims comprising the New Dawn property. The terms of this lease agreement provide for annual property payments, payment and recordation of annual maintenance fees to the Bureau of Land Management and to Elko County, and net smelter return royalties. The recommendations contained herein are for a two-stage exploration program to define, and then test prospective areas of alteration and gold mineralization. Our officers and directors have not visited the New Dawn Property. We have relied on the findings of the geological report prepared for the Company concerning this property. We believe that this is standard procedure in the mining industry.
Pursuant to a mining lease agreement dated August 11, 2008, with Altair Minerals, Inc. for the mining rights to the New Dawn Property, we were required to make the following advanced royalty payments :
i. $5,000 upon the execution of the agreement, to hold the property for one year from the effective date;
ii. $10,000 due on the first anniversary of the agreement;
iii. $15,000 due on the second anniversary of the agreement;
iv. $25,000 on the third anniversary of the agreement; and
v. $25,000 on each subsequent anniversary of the agreement.
We paid the $5,000 advanced royalty payment due upon execution of the agreement but we did not have the necessary funds to make the $10,000 advanced royalty payment on the first anniversary of the agreement. We were able to enter into a series of amendments to the lease whereby we made reduced payments and the term of the lease was extended for an additional six months from the time of the payment. As a result, the following advanced royalty payments replaced the amounts due under the original agreement, and the lease was extended as follows;
If we fail to reach an agreement with the owner of the property before May 15, 2013, we could lose our rights to explore the mining property.
Upon commencing of production of minerals, we are obligated to pay a royalty on production to the landowner equal to 4% of net smelter returns. We have the right to purchase up to 2 of the 4 royalty points, by paying Altair $1,000,000 for the first royalty percentage point, and $2,000,000 for the second royalty percentage point.
Property Acquisition Details
See above.
Property Description and Location
Area and Location
The New Dawn property is located in Elko County, in the Tuscarora Mountains of north-central Nevada, at approximately 41° 17’ North Latitude, 116° 20’ West Longitude. The property is about 45 miles northwest of the town of Elko. Elko is the seat of Elko County and lies on Interstate Highway I-80 about halfway between Reno, Nevada, and the Salt Lake City, Utah. The New Dawn property area is included within the Mt. Blitzen U.S. Geological Survey (1:24,000) 7 ½ minute quadrangle topographic map. The New Dawn property is located in Section 4 of Township 39 North, Range 50 East, Mount Diablo Base and Meridian. The property is comprised of four unpatented lode mining claims, with each claim covering approximately 20 acres. There are no known environmental concerns or parks designated for any area contained within the claims. The property has no encumbrances. As advanced exploration proceeds, there may be bonding requirements for reclamation.
Claims and Title
The New Dawn property is comprised of the following four unpatented lode mining claims:
The claims were staked using a GPS unit (with <10 ft accuracy), but have not been legally surveyed. Public lands in the area of the New Dawn property are administered by the U.S. Department of Interior, Bureau of Land Management (“BLM”), under the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976. All claims are subject to an annual maintenance fee of $125.00 per claim, payable to the BLM and due by noon September 1 of each year. In addition, an annual Notice of Intent to Hold and fee of approximately $8.50 per claim is payable to the Elko County Recorder’s Office.
Based on an examination of Certificates of Location and Notices of Intent to Hold on file at the Elko County Recorder’s Office in Elko, Nevada, and at the BLM Nevada State Office in Reno, Nevada, these ND claims were properly recorded. Their 2009 - 2013 annual maintenance fees have been paid, and the claims are now in good standing until noon September 1, 2013, at which time the 2014 annual maintenance fees are due and payable.
The four unpatented lode mining claims comprising the New Dawn property are registered in the name of and are owned by Altair Minerals, Inc., a privately held Nevada corporation. Braeden Valley Mines Inc. has the right to explore and, if warranted, develop the New Dawn Property under the terms of an existing lease agreement.
Environmental Liabilities
There are no open audits, shafts or deep trenches on the New Dawn Property, and thus no mining or exploration associated safety hazards exist at this time. There are no known prospect pits, and to the best of our knowledge, there are no environmental liabilities known to exist on the New Dawn Property that can be attributed to or become the responsibility of either Altair Minerals, Inc. or Braeden Valley Mines Inc. Any exploration a development project proposed under present conditions will inevitably face environmentally driven hurdles.
Permits
The BLM is responsible for the surface and subsurface mineral estate on federal lands. At the time of this writing, no Notice of Intent to Operate, no Plan of Operation has been filed with the BLM. Permitting for the proposed two phases of work on these properties is not anticipated to cause any problems or serous delays, as all of the planned work would involve physical disturbance of less than five acres or more involve a more stringent permitting process.
Accessibility, Climate, Local Resources, Infrastructure and Topography
From Reno, Nevada, access to the New Dawn property is by Interstate Freeway I-80 east for about 280 miles to Elko (Exit 301 on I-80), then north to paved State Highway 225 for about 26 miles, then northwest on paved State Highway 226, and then turning off to the west onto the county maintained gravel road SSR 18 that heads toward the historic mining town of Tuscarora. After about 6 miles this gravel road turns due south. After heading due south about 1 mile, turn onto a secondary gravel road heading due west for about 4 miles past the Quarter Circle S Ranch and along the north side of McCann Creek. Take the west fork onto a dirt track that heads northwest and then curves to the southwest then southeast, and eventually heads south along a ridge top, passing through the New Dawn property after about 2.5 miles.
The climate in this part of Nevada is typical of the high desert country of the American southwest, with hot summers, cold winters and generally dry conditions. Temperature variations recorded for the area extend from a minimum of -40° F to a maximum of 108° F, with average temperatures of 16° F in winter and 84° F in summer (Western Regional Climate Center). This is semi-arid desert, with an average annual precipitation of 12.5 inches. Heavy snowfall can be expected in the higher ranges, but the climate should not be an impediment to mining, especially if the operations were underground. Mining at open pits elsewhere in Nevada, in roughly similar conditions, is continued year round. Physical exploration work could be conducted on the New Dawn property year round, except during early spring when the frozen ground is melting and the unimproved dirt roads become muddy and difficult to travel.
Vegetation in this part of Nevada is generally confined to grasses and sagebrush, with local stands of willows, trembling aspen and some cottonwoods in valley bottoms, and local areas with dwarf juniper and pines. The property area includes summer grazing leases for cattle from local ranches. Most of the access roads are officially designated as ranch access roads, meaning that there are few restrictions on their use. But it is imperative to respect ranchers’ rights, especially, to keep gates closed where requested to do so.
Water is relatively short supply, however there is probably sufficient water in McCann Creek for drilling, although it may be necessary to truck water if a diamond drill is employed. Grid electrical power is not available on the New Dawn property, although it does extend to the Quarter Circle S Ranch about 4 miles to the east.
The New Dawn property is in moderately steep terrain, on a north-south trending ridge of the northern Tuscarora Mountains, with Mount Blitzen (el. 8130 ft) located about five miles to the northeast. The north-south trending ridge is between the headwaters of Berry and Lewis Creeks. Within the New Dawn property, elevations range from 7480 ft at the ridge top, sloping down to 6920 ft in the eastern gullies draining into Berry Creek, and sloping down to 7200 ft in the western gullies draining into Lewis Creek. Further to the east, Berry Creek joins McCann Creek, which eventually joins the South Fork of the Owyhee River. Further to the west, Lewis Creek joins other creeks that eventually drain into the Humboldt River.
Elko is located on the Humboldt River, which has I-80 and a transcontinental railway along its course through northern Nevada. Elko is the county seat, and has a regional airport with helicopter services available. Numerous drilling companies operate out of Elko. And in general, Elko is the service centre for large mining operations in the Carlin trend and the Jerritt Canyon district. Given all the mining activity in the Elko region, it is anticipated that sufficient infrastructure and manpower would be available locally to support a mining operation at the New Dawn property.
Geological Setting
Regional Geology
The hilly terrains and the middle level plain contain crystalline hard rocks such as charnockites, granite gneiss, khondalites, leptynites, metamorphic gneisses with detached occurrences of crystalline limestone, iron ore, quartzo-feldspathic veins and basic intrusives such as dolerites and anorthosites. Coastal zones contain sedimentary limestones, clay, laterites, heavy mineral sands and silica sands. The hill ranges are sporadically capped with laterites and bauxites of residual nature. Gypsum and phosphatic nodules occur as sedimentary veins in rocks of the cretaceous age. Gypsum of secondary replacement occurs in some of the areas adjoining the foot hills of the Western Ghats. Lignite occurs as sedimentary beds of tertiary age. The Black Granite and other hard rocks are amenable for high polish. These granites occur in most of the districts except the coastal area.
As described by Teal and Jackson (2002), Bonham (1986), Roberts (1986), and others, regional stratigraphic and isotopic data indicate that during the Cambrian through Early Mississippian, most of eastern Nevada was situated along a stable paleo-continental margin. During this period, a westward-thickening and deepening wedge of sediments was deposited across the paleo-continental shelf and oceanic basin. The sedimentary facies of this Cordilleran geosynclines graded from eastern shallow water (miogeoclinal) carbonates, to deep water (eugeoclinal) fine-grained siliciclastics.
During the Late Devonian through Middle Mississippian, tectonic activity associated with the Antier orogeny resulted in large-scale uplift, folding and thrusting of the eugeoclinical siliceous rocks eastward over the miogenoclinal carbonate rocks, along the Roberts Mountain thrust fault system. The leading edge of the overriding thrust plate formed the emergent Antler highland, from which coarse siliceous clastic sediment eroding from the upper-plate was she eastward into the adjacent foreland basin.
Local terminology refers to three major Palaeozoic tectonostratigraphic rocks sequences: the eastern or carbonate autochthonous assemblage (PzZc), i.e., the lower plate rocks characterized by limestone and dolomite, with minor shale and quaztzite: the western or siliceous allochthonous assemblage (IPzs), i.e., the upper plate rocks characterized by chert and dark shale, with grey quartzite, greywacke, and minor mafic volcanic and limestone; and the overlap assemblage (uPzc), i.e., the foreland basin rocks characterized by coarser clastic flysch.
Teritiary rocks in northern Nevada include volcanic rocks ranging from silicic tuffs to basalt flows. Silicic tuffs predominate in the older, mid-Eocene to mid-Miocene. Teritiary volcanic (Tvl). The New Dawn property is located within a fault-bounced wedge of Palaeozoic IPzs rocks, within the Eocene Tuscarora volcanic field, which is included in Tvl. The Tuscarora volcanic field consists of andesitic to rhyolitic tuffs and flows that erupted from several volcanic centres; these igneous rocks intruded and locally covered sequences of upper and lower plate Palaeozoic sediments.
Local and Property Geology
Three of the regional rock units outcrop in the immediate vicinity of the New Dawn property: 1) upper plate Palaeozoic rocks IPzs; 2) Tertiary volcanic Tvl; and 3) contemporaneous and younger dikes TMzi. In addition, there are unconsolidated 4) Quaternary surficial deposits Qa. As mapped by Henry and Boden (1998), these regional units are locally subdivided and described as follows:
1) The Palaeozoic (Ordovician - Devonian) rocks are locally distinguished into a siltstone-dominated assemblage Pzs and a chert-dominated assemblage Pzc. These rocks outcrop as a fault-bounded wedge in the Tuscarora volcanic field. These are the rocks exposed at the New Dawn property, where they are strongly deformed, with folds and thrusts striking east-northeast and mostly dipping northwest.
2) In the area of the New Dawn property, the Tertiary (Eocene) volcanic are lavas, tuffs and volcaniclastic sediments of the Pleasant Valley volcanic complex, part of the Tuscarora volcanic field. Local sources for these volcanic rocks include a probable psyclastic vent located in the upper part of Pleasant Valley volcanic complex, part of the Tuscarora volcanic field.
The rock unit exposed within the boundaries of the New Dawn property is Pzs, which includes Paleozoic petroliferous (oil-bearing) carbonate (limestone) sediments interpreted as being the lowermost unit of the upper plate rocks which are immediately above the Roberts Mountain thrust. It is the immediately underlying lower plate Palaeozoic petrliferous carbonate sediments that host most of the Carlin-type deposits of the Carlin trend.
Moreover, many of these deposits are associated with altered and locally mineralized Eocene porphyritic dikes.
Mineralization and Alteration
Alteration can be observed on the New Dawn property in a northeast trending zone associated with the porphyritic rhyolite dike that outcrops less than 1000ft to the north. This alteration zone crosses with the ridge between the headwaters of Lewis and Berry Creeks and is approximately 8000 ft long and 1500 ft wide, and it is recognizable on Land Sat Thermatic Mapper images.
As described by Henry and Boden (1998, p. 18 and p. 20)
“Quartz-barite veins occur along northeast-striking faults in the ridge between the headwaters of Lewis and Berry Creeks. Struhsacker (1992) reported that one vein lies in the footwall of a 65-85 degree northwest-dipping, finely porphyritic rhyolite dike (Tmrf) that cuts the Palaeozoic rocks. The dike is bleached and mildly argillized, and the vein contains as much as 2 ppm Au and 200 ppm Ag long with high As and Sb (Struhsacker, 1992).”
“Stuhsacker, E.M., 1992, Tuscarora project, Elko County, Nevada: Prospect Summaries: Unpublished Consulting Report for Corona Gold, 21 p. plus figures and plates.”
This mineralization is indicative of an epithermal system, which may represent the top of a hydrothermal plume of mineralizing fluids. However, at this point in time there is no indication of metallic constituents on the New Dawn property.
Deposit Types
The deposit being sought at the New Dawn property is a Carlin-type gold deposit, and especially a Meikle-type deposit, i.e., deep, higher grade, structurally controlled, and dike associated, hosted in underlying lower plate Palaeozoic sediments. This is a blind target, whose surface expression is believed to be the alteration halo in the Palaeozoic rocks of the New Dawn property. These rocks are the lowermost unit of the upper plate, and their alteration at the New Dawn property is associated with an altered and locally mineralized Eocene porphyritic rhyolite dike that outcrops to the north of the property.
Carlin-type gold deposits are among the most important being mined at present anywhere in the world. These are sedimentary rock-hosted, disseminated gold deposits, with high Au/Ag ratios, that occur mainly in moderately folded silty carbonate host rocks; the adjacent faults are sometimes intruded by Eocene porphyritic dikes, that are sericitically altered or silicified (Ressel, et al., 2000a). Total production from the Carlin trend, since the original mine began operation in 1964, has now exceeded 60 million troy ounces. Clearly, these deposits are worthwhile and attractive targets.
The contour map of district gold endowment and regional structures of northern Nevada suggests that the most prospective area for finding such blind targets would be north of the Carlin District, e,g, the Tuscarora district. The Tuscarora district contains the New Dawn property in a fault-bounded wedge of the lowermost upper plate Palaeozoic sediments, thus the underlying prospective lower plate rocks are within reasonable distance from the surface (<2,500 ft) at the New Dawn property.
Exploration
Apart from reviewing the available scientific literature, to date Braeden Valley Mines Inc. has not carried out any exploration work on these the New Dawn property, nor on any adjacent or other properties within the district.
Drilling Summary
We have not carried out any drilling on the property, nor on adjacent properties.
Sampling Method, Sample Preparation and Data Verification
During examination of the New Dawn property, several rock specimens from altered outcrop were collected. These specimens were collected for comparison purposes and to characterize the altered rocks.
No samples were collected from the New Dawn property for assaying.
Mineral Processing and Metallurgical Testing
No metallurgical test work has been conducted on the property by us.
Mineral Resource Estimate
There are at present no mineral resources defined on the New Dawn property.
Other Relevant Data and Information
There are at present no plans for production from the subject property. All work contemplated at this time is purely of an exploration nature.
The initial stage of the proposed exploration work on the New Dawn property is largely of a preliminary nature, involving geological, structural and alteration mapping, geochemistry and geophysics. Where appropriate, reverse circulation and/or core drilling would follow such work.
Interpretation and Conclusions
The target concept the New Dawn property is as follows: Alteration in upper plate Paleozoic sediments, locally associated with an Eocene porphyritic dike and with epithermal gold-arsenic dominated, Eocene-aged, precious metal mineralization , may represent the top of a mineralizing hydrothermal plume that had the potential to form a high-grade Carlin-type (e.g. Meikle) deposit within lower plate sediments at depth.
Recommendations
The objective is to define a deep drilling target that may lead to the discovery of Carlin-type gold mineralization hosted in lower plate Palaeozoic sediments. It is believed that geologic, structural, stratigraphic, geochemical and geophysical studies at the New Dawn property may define such a target at a depth of 2,500 feet. We believe the property is of sufficient merit to warrant the exploration work recommended herein. We intend to conduct exploration work on this property in two phases, with advancement to the second phase only upon successful completion of the first.
PHASE 1
1. If possible, obtain the data collected during previous exploration campaigns from their respective operators. Establish the provenance of this data, verify it, and if suitable, digitize and transfer all available exploration data onto a base map.
2. Carry out lithologic, structural, and alteration mapping with particular focus on the Eocene rhyolite dike and the adjacent Palaeozoic rocks.
3. Carry out geochemical soil and rock-chip sampling. Analyses should include gold, its pathfinder elements (As, Sb, Hg, Tl), and elements associated with oilfield/basin brines (i.e., B, Br, F, l, Pb, Zn, V).
4. Conduct a CSAMT (Controlled Source Audio-frequency Magneto Tellurics) geophysical survey along profiles across the entire property, and if possible, on the newly staked claims.
5. Review results of Phase 1 work, and, if warranted, select and prioritize targets for drilling.
Contingent on a review of the results of Phase 1 and approval by an independent qualified person, the project should continue to Phase 2.
PHASE 2
1. Drill targets identified by the Phase 1 work.
2. Sample and assay all drill core or cuttings obtained from altered rocks (both Palaeozoic and Eocene).
3. Review results of Phase 2 work, and, where warranted, select targets for further drilling.
ITEM 3.