ITEM 2. PROPERTIES.
The Company does not own any real estate. We are currently subleasing our office and warehouse facility at 670 E. Parkridge, Suite 112, Corona, California 92879 for $3,000 a month. The property is owned by one of our Directors, Frederick Feck. This is a written lease and runs month to month. The space consists of approximately 3,500 square feet. We occupied this warehouse facility from March 1, 2009, until September 30, 2009, on a rent free basis. Since October 1, 2009, we have occupied this warehouse facility under a verbal lease for $3,000 per month. Our board of directors believes this new rental arrangement is fair to the Company. SEE "CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS."
ITEM. 3 LEGAL PROCEEDINGS.
We have no legal matters pending against us. On August 15, 2011 we filed a collection action against Nature's Lighting for their failure to pay for product purchased from us. The amount owed to us is $39,000 plus legal fees and costs. On January 30, 2012 we were successful in obtaining a default judgment and now are proceeding to collect the balance owed to us.
We are not currently defendants in any legal proceedings. .
ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES.
Not applicable
PART II
ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES.
Our common stock is not currently traded or quoted on any national exchange. Our stock is quoted on the OTCBB market under the symbol "CGHA."
Our common stock is considered a "penny stock." The application of the "penny stock" rules to our common stock could limit the trading and liquidity of the common stock, adversely affect the market price of our common stock and increase your transaction costs to sell those shares. The Commission has adopted regulations which generally define a "penny stock" to be any equity security that has a market price (as defined) of less than $5.00 per share or an exercise price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions.
HOLDERS
As of March 28, 2013, there were approximately 176 shareholders of record of the Company's Common Stock and one shareholder of record of the Company's Series A Preferred Stock.
DIVIDENDS
The Company has not declared any cash dividends with respect to its common stock or preferred stock during the last two fiscal years and does not intend to declare dividends in the foreseeable future. There are no material restrictions limiting or that are likely to limit the Company's ability to pay dividends on its outstanding securities.
RECENT ISSUANCES OF UNREGISTERED SECURITIES
During the three month period ended March 31, 2012, a total of 21,500 shares of common stock were issued for services rendered and valued at the aggregate amount of $11,825.
During the three month period ended June 30, 2012, a total of 181,818 shares of common stock were issued, at $.55 per share, from the sales of our stock through a Private Placement Offering.
During the three month period ended September 30, 2012, a total of 400,000 shares of common stock and warrants were issued, at $.50 per share, from the sales of our stock and warrants through a Private Placement Offering. In addition, 18,182 shares of common stock were issued in exchange for the source code provided by one of the Company's engineers.
During the three month period ended December 31, 2012, a total of 122,502 shares of common stock and warrants were issued for services rendered, at $.55 per share.
In January 2013, 33,334 shares of common stock were issued to Directors Eisenberg, Katz, Brain and Adams each, for a total of 133,336 shares for services rendered during 2012, at $.55 per share. In addition, George Adams converted $67,322 of his line of credit at the rate of $.25/share for a total of 269,288 shares of common stock.
The above shares were issued in reliance on the exemption from registration requirements of the 33 Act provided by Section 4(2) and Regulation D, Rule 506 promulgated thereunder, as the issuance of the stock did not involve a public offering of securities based on the following:
* the investors represented to us that they were acquiring the securities for their own account for investment and not for the account of any other person and not with a view to or for distribution, assignment or resale in connection with any distribution within the meaning of the 33 Act; * we provided each investor with written disclosure prior to sale that the securities have not been registered under the 33 Act and, therefore, cannot be resold unless they are registered under the 33 Act or unless an exemption from registration is available; * the investors agreed not to sell or otherwise transfer the purchased securities unless they are registered under the 33 Act and any applicable state laws, or an exemption or exemptions from such registration are available;
* each investor had knowledge and experience in financial and other business matters such that he, she or it was capable of evaluating the merits and risks of an investment in us; * each investor was given information and access to all of our documents, records, books, officers and directors, our executive offices in Irvine, California and our warehouse facility in Corona, California, pertaining to the investment and was provided the opportunity to ask questions and receive answers regarding the terms and conditions of the offering and to obtain any additional information that we possesses or were able to acquire without unreasonable effort and expense; * each investor had no need for liquidity in their investment in us and could afford the complete loss of their investment in us; * we did not employ any advertisement, article, notice or other communication published in any newspaper, magazine or similar media or broadcast over television or radio; * we did not conduct, hold or participate in any seminar or meeting whose attendees had been invited by any general solicitation or general advertising; * we placed a legend on each certificate or other document that evidences the securities stating that the securities have not been registered under the 33 Act and setting forth or referring to the restrictions on transferability and sale of the securities; * we placed stop transfer instructions in our stock transfer records; * we sold securities to less than 35 individuals who were not "accredited investors" as defined in Rule 501 of Regulation D promulgated under the 33 Act; * no underwriter was involved in the offering and the only registered broker-dealer involved in the offering was Dave Broderick/WBB Securities to whom we paid commissions in the amount of $31,938; and * we made independent determinations that such persons were sophisticated or accredited investors and that they were capable of analyzing the merits and risks of their investment in us, that they understood the speculative nature of their investment in us and that they could lose their entire investment in us.
ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES
None.
ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA.
Not applicable.
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATION.
CAUTIONARY FORWARD - LOOKING STATEMENT
The following discussion should be read in conjunction with our financial statements and related notes.
Certain matters discussed herein may contain forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties. Such risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, the following:
* the volatile and competitive nature of our industry, * the uncertainties surrounding the rapidly evolving markets in which we compete, * the uncertainties surrounding technological change of the industry, * our dependence on its intellectual property rights, * the success of marketing efforts by third parties, * the changing demands of customers and * the arrangements with present and future customers and third parties.
Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize or should any of the underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results of current and future operations may vary materially from those anticipated. SEE ALSO the disclosures under "Cautionary Statement" following the Table of Contents in this Annual Report.
THE FOLLOWING DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF THE RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION OF CIRALIGHT GLOBAL, INC., FOR YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2012, 2011 AND 2010, AND FOR THE PERIOD FROM FEBRUARY 26, 2009 (INCEPTION) TO DECEMBER 31, 2009, SHOULD BE READ IN CONJUNCTION WITH THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, AND THE NOTES TO THOSE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS THAT ARE INCLUDED IN PART IV, ITEM 15 ELSEWHERE IN THIS FILING. REFERENCES TO "WE," "OUR," OR "US" IN THIS SECTION REFERS TO THE COMPANY AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES. OUR DISCUSSION INCLUDES FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS BASED UPON CURRENT EXPECTATIONS THAT INVOLVE RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES, SUCH AS OUR PLANS, OBJECTIVES, EXPECTATIONS AND INTENTIONS. ACTUAL RESULTS AND THE TIMING OF EVENTS COULD DIFFER MATERIALLY FROM THOSE ANTICIPATED IN THESE FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS AS A RESULT OF A NUMBER OF FACTORS, INCLUDING THOSE SET FORTH UNDER THE RISK FACTORS, FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS AND BUSINESS SECTIONS IN THIS PROSPECTUS. WE USE WORDS SUCH AS "ANTICIPATE," "ESTIMATE," "PLAN," "PROJECT," "CONTINUING," "ONGOING," "EXPECT," "BELIEVE," "INTEND," "MAY," "WILL," "SHOULD," "COULD," AND SIMILAR EXPRESSIONS TO IDENTIFY FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS.
OVERVIEW
Ciralight manufactures patented SunTracker(TM) lighting solutions that enable commercial and industrial buildings to utilize sunlight to illuminate indoor spaces. The SunTracker(TM) unit utilizes a solar powered GPS controller and mirrors to direct sunlight through a skylight diffuser. The result is a self contained, completely sustainable lighting solution that can offer up to 10.5 hours of free indoor light.
Using Sun-tracking technology allows our skylights to illuminate buildings longer and more effectively than traditional skylights. Furthermore, the natural diffused light is high quality, more conducive to retail, educational, and industrial purposes. SunTracker(TM) skylights provide the illumination of a 1,000 watt metal halide light fixture.
These units are entirely Solar Powered so they do not require any electricity or electrical hookup. Smart SunTrackers(TM) are designed with two heat traps so they prevent the heat gain associated with traditional skylights.
We add between one and three new dealers for our patented, SunTracker(TM) each week. Denver-based AIA Industries, Inc., a leader in custom manufacture of quality plastic and structural glass skylights for residential and commercial applications, distributes Ciralight's SunTracker(TM). This is significant because AIA makes their own custom line of skylights and decided to become a dealer for Ciralight because they believe that our SunTracker(TM) technology is the future of eco-friendly, energy-saving, natural light for businesses and homes.
We entered into a strategic dealership agreement with Progressive Roofing, a four-state, 8-office design/build and maintenance company responsible for such projects as the Phoenix Cardinals Stadium in Glendale, AZ, the Palo Verde Nuclear Plant in Tonopah, NV, Hartsfield Airport, Atlanta, GA, the Westin Casuarina Resort in Grand Cayman, Bahamas, and many more trophy buildings. Progressive has locations in California, Nevada, New Mexico and Texas, all
sunshine states, and for which installations of our Smart Skylights(TM) make the most sense.
Mexico City-based, The Global Industry Solution, SA, is an authorized Ciralight Global dealer for Mexico, who joined our other international dealerships in Spain, El Salvador, Canada, South Korea, Turkey, Europe, Israel and Denmark. We are currently in negotiations with companies in Japan, Indonesia, Brazil, Columbia, China, Bolivia, Chili, and Poland.
The emphasis on energy-efficient "Green" buildings, maintenance and sustainability make our Smart Skylights(TM) a very desirable addition when architects and builders are planning new construction.
We are making good progress towards introducing our Smart Skylights(TM) for homes, which, like our commercial Smart Skylights(TM), will be eligible to receive federal, state and local tax credits and utility incentives as an Energy Saving Green product. Our home Smart Skylights(TM) will deliver the same energy saving benefits as our commercial Smart Skylights(TM), such as improved lighting and improved health due to more natural light and reduced household utility costs. Our 4'x8' SunTracker(TM) , will begin shipping within weeks and we are presently receiving orders for this new popular addition to our product line.
We have completed new installations at the Columbus Zoo in Ohio, Market of Choice in Corvallis, Oregon, Fanshawe College and Northern College in Canada, LG facilities in Turkey, and Sahurita High School Gym and Riverside Elementary School in Arizona. Next week we are shipping 48 of our Smart Skylights(TM), for a new Whole Foods Market in Austin Texas and 27 for BD Biosciences in Northern California. We continue to progress on dialogue we have had in the last few months with such potential customers as the U.S. Army Corp of Engineers, City of Los Angeles Mayor's Office, City of Los Angeles Building & Safety Department, California Institute of Technology, American Honda Motor Co., U.S. Naval Facilities Command, Toyota Motor Sales USA, Parsons Construction Co., Turner Construction Company, Los Angeles Community Colleges District, Los Angeles Unified School District, NASA, University of Alabama, Los Angeles County, and others.
Every year, Ciralight Global promotes our SunTrackers(TM) at trade shows and conventions to potential new customers. In 2012 we exhibited at numerous conventions and energy shows including; The Equine Affaire in Tennessee (February 2012); Lightfair International in Las Vegas, NV (May 2012); BEX-Asia in Singapore (September 2012); and USGBC's Greenbuild 2012 in San Francisco, CA (November 2012).
These trade shows give Ciralight the opportunity to meet decision makers in the sustainable and green building industry. As we continue exhibiting at these shows, it's evident that people are looking for new energy efficiency solutions and are enthusiastic about our SunTracker(TM) products.
Throughout the year, Ciralight continued to grow our influential network of distributors and dealers who independently push the marketing and sales of our Ciralight SunTrackers(TM) around the world. We have over one hundred (100) Dealers worldwide, and the number continues to grow. Our approach is systematic and methodical, as we build the infrastructure necessary to achieve our significant long term growth and sales goals.
One of our most significant contracts signed during 2011 was with ABM Industries. ABM Industries is one of the largest facility management companies in the United States. ABM is currently training their nationwide team of 14,600 + facility engineers on the details of our SunTracker(TM) skylights and will begin recommending our SunTrackers(TM) as an energy saving solution for the buildings they manage and maintain.
Ciralight Global has established distribution through Europe, South America, Central America, North America and portions of Asia. In 2012, we will continue our efforts to build a broad infrastructure of international distribution as well as strategic relationships that in time, prove its value with significant sales. Our goals involve having distribution on every continent and in every country. Ciralight has spent this time to train, educate, and assist our new dealers and distributors in marketing our products in their territories.
Our SunTrackers(TM) are an exceptional energy saving product, but, as with any product, they require time to be specified into a building and ultimately installed. The building industry sales cycle is often 9-12 months or more. As we
introduce our product to new dealers in new markets, it requires time to educate and train their teams about our products and how to market our SunTrackers(TM) effectively.
Once a customer decides they want to purchase our SunTrackers(TM), their architect will draw up their plans; the plans must be approved by the local agencies, and then construction begins. Often, we find that a new customer will install a few SunTrackers(TM) as a test before eventually committing to a full order. So it can be a lengthy sales process, yet we are seeing the rewards.
As awareness of the SunTracker(TM) has spread, so has the diversity of our installation sites. SunTrackers(TM) were recently installed at the Amsterdam International Airport, at Supermarkets in Turkey, at Hawker Centers in Singapore, at two Colleges in Canada, and at a warehouse in Indonesia. This past year our SunTrackers(TM) were also installed at three different Google sites, a General Electric facility in Georgia, a Walgreens in Arizona, a West Marine in Hawaii, and at numerous Eaton Corporation facilities. The New Year will start strong with our first installation of 80 4'x8' SunTrackers(TM) for Caterpillar at their Belgium Headquarters.
In January 2011, Ciralight received the prestigious Green Mark certification from the Singapore Green Building Council endorsed by the government of Singapore.
GreenTree Products Asia Pte, LTD., Ciralight's exclusive distributor for Singapore, Malaysia and portions of Indonesia, secured the Singapore Green Building Council certification. The certification is based on the SunTrackers capability to bring abundant, consistent natural sunlight into building interiors throughout the day; and Ciralight Global's commitment to environmental practices throughout their own operations
The Green Mark Certification allows Singapore building owners that install Ciralight SunTrackers to benefit from incentive programs and grants set up by the Singapore government to encourage green-mindedness. As importantly, installation of the Ciralight SunTrackers can help property owners obtain a BCA Green Mark for their building, a meaningful distinction in the Singapore real estate market.
Installations of Ciralight SunTrackers have been completed at Indonesian warehouses, Singapore Hawker Centers, at the Singapore International Airport and at one of the island's largest food companies. With the Green Mark certification, 2012 looks to be a prominent year for GreenTree Products Asia and Ciralight SunTrackers. Ciralight SunTrackers(TM) have also been installed throughout world by Whole Foods, Staples, Office Depot, Boeing, Google, Caterpillar, LG, IKEA, Walgreens, Ace Hardware, Eaton, Fresh & Easy, Frito Lay, Patagonia and more.
We renamed our products as of January 1st, 2011. Our products are no longer referred to as SunTrackerOne, SunTrackerTwo, and SunTrackerThree. Instead, our 4'x4' SunTracker is now called the SunTracker 400 and our 4'x8' SunTracker is now called the SunTracker 800. When our smaller model for homes and classrooms is released, it will be called the SunTracker 200. These new model names are simple, intuitive, and reinforce the brand name and image.
We were incorporated in the state of Nevada on February 26, 2009, under the name "Ciralight West, Inc." On March 13, 2009, we changed our name to "Ciralight Global, Inc." In April 2009, we entered into an Exchange of Stock for Assets Agreement with Mr. George Adams, Sr. to acquire certain assets including, but not limited to, a United States patent, patent applications pending in Canada, Europe, Mexico and the United States, artwork, trademarks, equipment, furniture, databases, technical drawings, promotional materials, trade names and inventory parts and marketing rights related to the SunTracker One(TM) and SunTracker Two(TM) daylighting products previously owned and distributed by Ciralight, Inc., a Utah corporation, such assets having been foreclosed on by Mr. Adams, who was the secured creditor of Ciralight, Inc. We did not acquire any equity securities, debts, liabilities or financial obligations of Ciralight, Inc., the Prior Company. Ciralight, Inc. is a predecessor to Ciralight Global, Inc., although we have no affiliation, contractual or otherwise, with Ciralight, Inc. or any of its employees, officers or directors. Ciralight, Inc. ceased operations on January 27, 2009.
In April 2009, we acquired all of the above described assets from Mr. Adams, except for the United States and Canada patents and the patent applications pending in Europe and Mexico, in exchange for 3,200,000 shares of our common stock and 1,000,000 shares of our Series A Preferred Stock. In December 2009, we acquired the United States and Canada patents and the patent applications pending in Europe and Mexico from Mr. Adams in exchange for the
issuance by us of an additional 400,000 shares of our common stock and a convertible promissory note in the amount of $250,000. The promissory note we issued to Mr. Adams is convertible into shares of our common stock at a conversion rate of one share per $.25 of outstanding principal and interest. As a result of this transaction, Mr. Adams is our largest shareholder and has voting control over us.
As described in the above paragraphs, Ciralight, Inc. is a predecessor to Ciralight Global, Inc., since the major portion of the business and assets of Ciralight, Inc. were acquired by Ciralight Global, Inc. in a series of related successions in each of which the acquiring person or entity acquired the major portion of the business and assets of Ciralight, Inc.
In order to provide working capital, Ciralight Global, Inc. sold common stock through a private placement that raised $1,300,000 with the sale of 5,200,000 shares at a price of $0.25 per share from April 30, 2009 to January 15, 2010. During the third and fourth quarters of 2010, the Company sold common stock through a private placement that raised $222,000 with the sale of 444,000 shares at a price of $0.50 per share. During 2011, the Company sold common stock through a private placement that raised $475,680 with the sale of 951,360 shares at a price of $0.50 per share. During the second and third quarters of 2012, the Company sold common stock through private placement that raised $100,000 with the sale of 181,818 shares at a price of $0.55 per share and raised $200,000 with the sale of 400,000 shares at a price of $0.50 per share, respectively.
RISKS, UNCERTAINTIES AND TRENDS RELATING TO THE COMPANY AND INDUSTRY
The industrial lighting industry is intensely competitive. We have numerous competitors in the United States and elsewhere. Several of these competitors have already successfully marketed and commercialized products that compete with our products. Our success is dependent up our ability to effectively and profitably produce, market and sell our products. Our business strategy and success is dependent on the skills and knowledge of our management team and consultants. The marketability and profitability of our products is subject to unknown economic conditions, which could significantly impact our business, financial condition, the marketability of our products and our profitability. We are vulnerable to the current economic crisis which may negatively affect our profitability. Our success depends, in part, on the quality of our products.
Our SunTracker(TM) products provide natural daylighting that is a key component in many current construction and existing structures. SunTrackers(TM) are maintenance free, powered by the sun and completely self-contained. We are currently marketing our SunTracker(TM) products to warehouse owners, roofing companies, shopping centers, schools and military installations in the United States. We are working on establishing sales in Canada, Mexico and overseas. The market for advanced skylights is growing year over year due to pressures on building owners, tenants, schools and government agencies to reduce energy consumption and expense. The "green" movement, carbon footprint ideology and other environmental initiatives should provide increased growth in our market segment.
CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES
Our management's discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based on our condensed financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements as well as the reported net sales and expenses during the reporting periods. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates and assumptions. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other factors that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying value of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions.
While our significant accounting policies are more fully described in Note 3 to our financial statements, we believe that the following accounting policies are the most critical to aid the reader in fully understanding and evaluating this discussion and analysis:
BASIS OF PRESENTATION - The accompanying financial statements have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles for financial information and have been prepared pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission for smaller reporting companies.
REVENUE RECOGNITION - Revenue on our skylights and parts are recognized when the units or parts ship to the customer, the amount is fixed and determined to be collectible, and no further obligation exists.
INCOME TAXES - The Company accounts for income taxes in accordance with Accounting Standards Codification 740, INCOME TAXES ("ASC 740"). Deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on the temporary differences between the financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities, applying enacted statutory tax rates in effect for the year in which the differences are expected to reverse. A valuation allowance is recorded when it is more likely than not that some or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized.
The Company uses a two-step approach to recognizing and measuring uncertain tax positions accounted for in accordance with ASC 740. The first step is to evaluate the tax position for recognition by determining if the weight of available evidence indicates that it is more likely than not that the position will be sustained on audit, including resolution of related appeals or litigation processes, if any. The second step is to measure the tax benefit as the largest amount that is more likely than not to be realized upon settlement. The Company will classify the liability for unrecognized tax benefits as current to the extent that the Company anticipates payment (or receipt) of cash within one year. There were no significant matters determined to be unrecognized tax benefits taken or expected to be taken in a tax return that have been recorded on the Company's consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011.
The Company recognizes interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits in the tax provision. As of and for the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, there were no interest or penalties related to income taxes that have been accrued or recognized.
INVENTORIES - Inventories, consisting primarily of finished skylight units and parts for sale, are recorded using the average cost method. Inventory acquired from the prior company was booked at the historical cost of the prior company.
EARNINGS PER SHARE - Earnings per share is computed in accordance with the provisions of Financial Accounting Standards (FASB) Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) Topic 260. Basic net income (loss) per share is computed using the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding during the period. Diluted earnings per share is computed using the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding during the period, as adjusted for the dilutive effect of the Company's outstanding convertible preferred shares using the "if converted" method and dilutive potential common shares. Potentially dilutive securities include warrants, convertible preferred stock, restricted shares, and contingently issuable shares.
STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION - The Company accounts for stock-based compensation under the provisions of FASB ASC 718, which requires the Company to measure the stock-based compensation costs of share-based compensation arrangements based on the grant date fair value and generally recognizes the costs in the financial statements over the employee's requisite service period. Stock-based compensation expense for all stock-based compensation awards granted was based on the grant date fair value estimated in accordance with the provisions of FASB ASC 718.
SHIPPING AND HANDLING COSTS - The Company includes shipping and handling costs that are billed to our customers in revenue and the actual costs incurred for shipping and handling are included in cost of goods sold in accordance with the provisions of FASB ASC 605-45-45-20. The related costs are considered necessary to complete the revenue cycle.
WARRANTY COSTS - Commencing April 1, 2009, the Company provided a five-year warranty covering the labor and materials associated with its installations. Effective September 1, 2009, the Company changed the coverage to ten years in the U.S. The Company's "advanced skylights" are warranted by the manufacturer for 10 years, generally. The Company (at its option) will repair, replace or give credit for the original purchase price on any of its products or parts. An accrual for a loss contingency has been made, since warranty expenses to date
have been consistent and a reasonable estimate of future expenses can be made, in accordance with FASB ASC 460-10-50-8 (c).
COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS) - FASB ASC Topic 220 establishes standards for reporting comprehensive income (loss) and its components in a financial statement that is displayed with the same prominence as other financial statements. Comprehensive income (loss), as defined, includes all changes in equity during the period from non-owner sources, such as foreign currency translation adjustments.
RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS
In 2011, the FASB issued two ASUs which amend guidance for the presentation of comprehensive income. The amended guidance requires an entity to present components of net income and other comprehensive income in one continuous statement, referred to as the statement of comprehensive income, or in two separate, but consecutive statements. The current option to report other comprehensive income and its components in the statement of stockholders' equity will be eliminated. Although the new guidance changes the presentation of comprehensive income, there are no changes to the components that are recognized in net income or other comprehensive income under existing guidance. These ASUs are effective for us as of Q1 2012 and retrospective application will be required. These ASUs will change our financial statement presentation of comprehensive income but will not impact our net income, financial position, or cash flows.
In 2011, the FASB issued an ASU which intended to reduce complexity and costs by allowing an entity the option to make a qualitative evaluation about the likelihood of goodwill impairment to determine whether it should calculate the fair value of a reporting unit. The ASU also expands upon the examples of events and circumstances that an entity should consider between annual impairment tests in determining whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. The ASU is effective for us in Q1 2012, with early adoption permitted. We do not expect adoption to have an impact on our consolidated financial statements.
In 2012 the FASB issued ASU 2012-02, Intangibles--Goodwill and Other (Topic 350): Testing Indefinite-Lived Intangible Assets for Impairment. This ASU gives an entity the option to first assess qualitative factors to determine whether it is necessary to perform the quantitative impairment test for indefinite-lived intangible assets other than goodwill. The amendments are effective for annual and interim impairment tests performed for fiscal years beginning after September 15, 2012. This ASU has affected our tests for impairment of intangible assets.
In 2012 the FASB issued ASU 2012-04, Technical Corrections and Improvements. This ASU makes certain incremental improvements to U.S. GAAP, including, among other revisions, conforming amendments that identify when the use of fair value should be linked to the definition of fair value in ASC 820. The majority of the amendments in ASU 2012-04 were effective upon issuance on October 1, 2012, for both public entities and nonpublic entities. For public entities, the more substantive amendments that are subject to transition guidance are effective for fiscal periods beginning after December 15, 2012. We do not expect adoption to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS OF THE COMPANY
COMPARISON OF THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2012 AND 2011
SALES. Net sales decreased slightly (6%) from $1,111,343 in 2011 to $1,043,778 in 2012. This decrease in sales was due to an interruption in our product supply due to the transition by the company that manufacturers our GPS Controller which closed its factory near Houston, where they were making our product, to their factory in Phoenix. As a result of this transition, the company did not receive any new product from July 1, 2012 until August 30, 2012. Due to this interruption and concerns over production errors made by the manufacturer, in mid-September Ciralight terminated its relationship with the manufacturer and elected to move production of its GPS Controllers to a new supplier. The new manufacturer came up to full production at the end of the fourth quarter and we were able to fill backorders that had accumulated. With the backorder of sales largely fulfilled in the fourth quarter our 2012 annual sales were almost level with 2011 annual sales.
Sales and demand for our products again have been increasing. This is a result of our sales and marketing efforts, including greater visibility, customer outreach, customer acceptance, and demonstrated return on investment.
COST OF SALES. Cost of sales increased 7% from $849,184 in 2011 to $908,398 in 2012. Cost of sales as a percentage of net sales increased from 76% in 2011 to 87% in 2012. The increase in our cost of sales is due to the production errors made by the manufacturer of our GPS Controllers, resulting in a recall of shipped product and necessary warranty replacements. Ciralight has terminated its relationship with this manufacturer and has a new supplier, which came fully on-line at the end of December 2012.
Cost of sales also consists of the cost of our products with related shipping and warranty costs. The Company continues to monitor business operations in the ongoing effort to decrease its cost of sales. These include stricter controls over the movement of inventory to reduce losses, damage, and waste, making improvements to the products in order to reduce warranty work, implementing cost effective shipping options available through better pre-planning and scheduling, managing inventory levels by scheduling production to match demand forecasts, changing to more quality oriented suppliers, negotiating more favorable manufacturing agreements, and implementing cost reducing design changes.
GROSS PROFIT. Gross profit decreased 48% from $262,159 in 2011 to $135,380 in 2012. Gross profit as a percentage of net sales decreased from 24% for 2011 to 13% in 2012. This decrease in gross profit was due to an interruption in our product supply due to the transition by the company that manufacturers our GPS Controller which closed its factory near Houston, where they were making our product, to their factory in Phoenix. Subsequent production errors made by the manufacturer caused Ciralight to terminate its relationship with the manufacturer in mid-September and move production of its GPS Controllers to a new supplier.
OPERATING EXPENSES. Our operating expenses consist of research and development expenses, selling and marketing expenses and general and administrative expenses. Operating expenses increased 4% from $1,162,541 in 2011 to $1,203,631 in 2012. Operating expenses as a percentage of net sales increased from 105% in 2011 to 115% in 2012.
Research and development expenses increased 68% from $37,262 in 2011 to $62,559 in 2012. Research and development as a percentage of net sales decreased from 3% in 2011 to 6% in 2012. This increase was a result of the process needed to resolve the cause of product failure of the GPS Controllers, which cause was determined to be production errors made on the part of the then-manufacturer.
Selling and marketing expenses decreased 25% from $240,547 in 2011 to $180,924 in 2012. Selling and marketing expense as a percentage of net sales decreased from 22% for 2011 to 17% for 2012.
During 2011, our marketing efforts focused on exhibiting and presenting our patented product line and the introduction of the SunTracker Three(TM). In addition to our marketing strategy with architects and builders planning new construction with the emphasis on energy-efficient "Green" buildings, we have progressed towards introducing our SunTrackers(TM) for homes. In 2012, our marketing efforts were somewhat curtailed during the transition by the company that manufacturers our GPS Controller closing its factory near Houston, where they were making our product, to their factory in Phoenix, resulting in Ciralight not receiving any new product for sale from July 1, 2012 until August 30, 2012. This interruption and the subsequent concerns over production errors made by the manufacturer caused the Company to have an insufficient amount of product to market and sell.
General and administrative expenses increased 9% from $884,732 in 2011 to $960,148 in 2012. General and administrative expenses as a percentage of net sales increased from 80% in 2011 to 92% in 2012. This increase was due to the addition of direct sales staff and compensation to the Board of Directors which increased from two members to six members.
INCOME TAXES. Management has decided not to recognize the tax benefit for the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011.
LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES
CASH FLOWS - COMPARISON OF THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2012 AND 2011
Net cash used in operating activities was $542,802 for 2012 and resulted primarily from a net loss of $1,104,813 partially offset by increases in other payables and decreases in prepayments, deposits, deferred revenue and notes receivable. Net cash used in operating activities was $644,845 for 2011 and resulted primarily from a net loss of $927,072 partially offset by increases in other payables and decreases in prepayments, deposits and notes receivable.
Net cash flow used in investing activities was $26,581 for 2012, used primarily in the purchase of tooling for a component in the GPS Controller, and for software Source Code. Net cash flow used in investing activities was $4,262 for 2011, used primarily in the purchase of a computer system and tooling for the Pinion Gear component in the GPS Controller.
Net cash provided by financing activities was $553,000 for 2012 and resulted primarily from the sale of common stock for $300,000 and net related-party advances of $263,000. Net cash provided by financing activities was $543,442 for 2011 and resulted primarily from the sale of common stock for $475,680 and related party advances of $100,000.
CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS AND OFF-BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS
CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS
We have certain fixed contractual obligations and commitments that include future estimated payments. Changes in our business needs, cancellation provisions, changing interest rates, and other factors may result in actual payments differing from the estimates. We cannot provide certainty regarding the timing and amounts of payments. We have presented below a summary of the most significant assumptions used in our determination of amounts presented in the tables, in order to assist in the review of this information within the context of our consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows.
The following table summarizes our contractual obligations as of December 31, 2012, and the effect these obligations are expected to have on our liquidity and cash flows in future periods.
Payments Due by Period
ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURE ABOUT MARKET RISK.
Not applicable.
ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA.
Our financial statements and supplementary data may be found beginning at page.
ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE.
Not applicable.
ITEM 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES.
EVALUATION OF DISCLOSURE CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES
As of the end of the period covered by this report, we carried out an evaluation, under the supervision and with the participation of our principal executive officer of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures. Based on this evaluation, our principal executive officer concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and Rule 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934) were effective.
CHANGES IN INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING
Our management evaluated our internal control over financial reporting and there have been no changes during the fiscal quarter ended December 31, 2012 that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.
MANAGEMENT'S REPORT ON INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING
Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. Our internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. Our management assessed the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2012. In making this assessment, it used the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) in Internal Control--Integrated Framework. Based on our assessment, we have concluded that, as of December 31, 2012:
TIMELY RECONCILIATION OF ACCOUNTS
During the December 31, 2012 and December 31, 2011 audits, our auditors proposed eight and eleven adjusting journal entries, respectively to the trial balance initially submitted to them by the Company. This large number of journal entries suggests that the Company's financial records are not properly reconciled at year end. It is a further indication that the Company's controls are not operating effectively to ensure that accounts are reconciled on a timely basis.
ACCOUNTING EXPERTISE
During the 2012 interim review engagements, as well as the December 31 , 2012 audit, our auditors noted that the Company currently lacks the sufficient internal SEC filing and accounting expertise necessary to prepare financial statements that include the appropriate information and disclosures required by the SEC. The Company has utilized the services of outside accounting professionals during prior engagements, which provided some support related to these filings. However, during the December 31, 2012 audit, the Company did not utilize the services of outside professionals and the Company currently lacks sufficient internal financial reporting expertise.
ITEM 9B. OTHER INFORMATION.
Not applicable.
PART III
ITEM 10. DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE.
Our executive officers are elected by the board of directors and serve at the discretion of the board. All of the current directors serve until the next annual shareholders' meeting or until their successors have been duly elected and qualified. The following table sets forth certain information regarding our current directors and executive officers:
Name Age Position Director Since ---- --- -------- -------------- Terry S. Adams 52 Chairman of the Board and Director April 2012
Jeffrey S. Brain 52 President, Chief Executive Officer, April 2009 Chief Operating Officer, Treasurer and Director
Larry Eisenberg 60 Director April 2012
Frederick Feck 81 Corporate Secretary and Director April 2009
Richard Katz 61 Director April 2012
William "Smokey" 72 Director May 2012 Robinson Jr.
Certain biographical information of our directors and officers is set forth below.
TERRY SCOT ADAMS, CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD
Terry S. Adams is a Director and Executive Vice President of SA Recycling. Originally started by Terry's Father in 1973, as a small junk yard with a handful of employees, SA Recycling currently operates over 50 facilities in California, Arizona, Nevada and Mexico. The list of facilities includes two deep water ports and four automobile shredding plants. SA Recycling has approximately 1,500 employees and will process and recycle more than three million tons of steel this year, accounting for almost 10% of all scrap metal exported from the U.S. Mr. Adams has worked for SA Recycling for the past 30 years.
Mr. Adams' many roles in the SA Recycling have included: shredder operator, design engineer, plant manager, regulatory compliance officer, and in his current capacity he is involved in acquisitions and strategic planning.
Over the past thirty years Mr. Adams has developed an extensive background and expertise in the recycling, processing, shredding, and management of all types of metals and waste streams, including hazardous, reactive, and radioactive materials. In 1993, Mr. Adams helped form the first lithium recycling company and was the chief design engineer for the world's first lithium battery recycling plant located in Trail, British Columbia. That company, Toxco, Inc. has grown into one of the largest battery recyclers in the U.S. and is currently building a new Department of Energy sponsored facility at one of its plants in Ohio. When completed in 2012, this plant will be the first dedicated electric vehicle battery recycling operation in the U.S. Mr. Adams served as President of Toxco, Inc. from 1999 to 2011, and is currently Chairman of the Board of Toxco, Inc.
Mr. Adams is also on the Board of Directors of the following non-profit organizations: Foundation Board Children's Hospital Orange County (CHOC), Executive Board member Orange County Council, Boy Scouts of America, and USC Viterbi (Engineering) Board of Councilors.
Mr. Adams holds a Bachelor of Science in Mechanical Engineering from USC (1981) and a Masters in Business Administration from Cal State Fullerton (1985)
Mr. Adams has been married to his wife Leslie for 25 years and has son and a daughter.
JEFFREY BRAIN, PRESIDENT, CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER, CHIEF OPERATING OFFICER AND DIRECTOR
Since March 15, 2009, until the present time, Jeff has been involved in the formation and operation of the Company and currently serves us in the capacities of President, Chief Executive Officer, Chief Operating Officer, Chief Financial Officer and as a director. Jeff is a successful entrepreneur, recognized civic leader and government strategist. Jeff served as Chief Operating Officer of the Smokey Robinson Food Company from October 2003 until November 2008. Jeff took the company from startup to national distribution in just 18 months. Prior to joining Smokey Robinson Food Company, Jeff was the Founder and President of Valley Vote, Inc., one of the largest government reform organizations in U.S. history. Jeff presided over a Board of Directors of 100 of Los Angeles' top community and business leaders, directed 2,000 volunteers and a team of professional consultants and attorneys.
As President of Valley Vote, Inc., Jeff was responsible for preparing a $1.1 billion dollar budget and a public service plan to provide police, fire, transportation, parks, utilities, etc. for a city that would be the sixth largest city in the U.S. He also managed all the business functions, including media relations, public speaking, community outreach, budgeting, government structure and public service planning, message development, legislative development and he oversaw the day-to-day administrative staff and operations.
Prior to forming Valley Vote, Jeff founded Jeff Brain's Real Estate Network, a full service real-estate brokerage and consulting firm based in Los Angeles. Before launching his entrepreneurial ventures, Jeff held the position of Assistant Vice President at Eastern Pacific, a real estate development company. In this role, Jeff was responsible for analyzing, budgeting and syndicating multi-million dollar real estate development projects and managed the Accounting Department. Jeff also served as the Director of Acquisition and Finance at Triangle Investments, Inc., where he was responsible for real estate acquisitions, project analysis, syndications and management.
Jeff has a Bachelor of Science degree in Finance as well as a Bachelor of Science Degree in Accounting, both from the California State University of Northridge.
LARRY EISENBERG, DIRECTOR
Since March 2011, Larry Eisenberg is Principal of Sustainable Strategies Today. Sustainable Strategies Today helps clients across the nation implement sustainable design and renewable energy solutions, working as a strategic advisor and owner's representative.
From August 2003 until March 2011, Mr. Eisenberg served as the Executive Director of Facilities Planning and Development for the Los Angeles Community College District, the largest community college district in the nation. Serving more than 36 cities in Los Angeles County and covering nearly 900 square miles, the nine colleges of the LACCD have been educating and training the region's diverse workforce since 1969.
As the Executive Director, Mr. Eisenberg oversaw all planning, facilities development, maintenance and real estate activities at the District. Mr. Eisenberg directed the District's award -winning $6 billion Sustainable Building Program, one of the nation's largest "green" construction and renewable energy efforts. The program was established to modernize the LACCD's nine colleges, focusing on sustainability by embracing nationally recognized environmental
standards and guidelines. By the time the construction and renewable energy efforts are complete, the District is expected to have 85 new buildings that meet the U.S. Green Building Council's LEED (Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design) standards with nearly 20 of them being certified as LEED Platinum. In addition, a significant share of the District's energy requirements will be met with renewable energy.
Mr. Eisenberg has extensive experience with major construction projects and is an expert on sustainable building practices. He has published numerous articles on a variety of construction -related topics and on innovative public/private partnerships in building projects. Mr. Eisenberg is a sought after speaker, regularly serving as a keynote speaker at meetings and conferences around the country on topics of sustainable design, renewable energy, and building construction practices.
Mr. Eisenberg serves on the sustainability advisory committee for several national organizations, including the American College and University Presidents Climate Commitment, the Association for the Advancement of Sustainability in Higher Education, and the National Association of College and University Budget Officers. Mr. Eisenberg received a bachelor's degree in urban studies from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and a master's degree in public affairs from the LBJ School of Public Affairs at the University of Texas at Austin. He was born and raised in California's San Fernando Valley and attended North Hollywood High School. Mr. Eisenberg is married and has one son.
FREDERICK FECK, CORPORATE SECRETARY AND DIRECTOR
Mr. Feck is a Director of the Company and our Corporate Secretary. Mr. Feck has been in the real estate development and construction industry from 1960 until the present time. Mr. Feck developed the first true condominium with Fee Title to cubical air space in California. After the passage of the Medicare bill in late 1965, Mr. Feck entered the health care field syndicating and developing convalescent hospitals. Mr. Feck acted as a general partner in the syndication of a 204 bed convalescent hospital known as The Rio Hondo Convalescent Hospital in Montebello, California. In 1970, Mr. Feck co-founded Environmental Communities, Inc., to manufacture mobile and modular homes from a facility in Corona, California. Mr. Feck sold his interest in 1972 and moved to San Diego County. Mr. Feck formed Calco West, Inc. and was engaged in the development and construction of single family tract homes. Mr. Feck also formed Calco West Realty, Inc. in 1976, a general real estate operation with six offices and a Real Estate School in the North San Diego County area. The company was sold to its employees in 1981. Mr. Feck then formed Calco West Financial Corporation in 1981 for the management of commercial and residential real estate, primarily his own. Mr. Feck was also one of the original founders of the San Marcos National Bank in 1981 and served on its Board of Directors for a period of 14 years. Mr. Feck was born in Maine, attended the University of Maine for two years, moved to California in 1950 and attended Northrop Aeronautical Institute in Los Angeles from which he graduated in 1952 as an aeronautical engineer. He worked for Northrop Aircraft Company on the N-69 Guided Missile Program for two years before going into the service. Mr. Feck served as a pilot in the United States Air Force for five years. Mr. Feck is licensed in California as a general contractor and a real estate broker and also holds a commercial pilot's license.
RICHARD KATZ, DIRECTOR
Since January 1997, Richard Katz has been the owner of a successful public policy and government relations firm based in Los Angeles, Richard Katz Consulting, Inc. ("RKC"). RKC offers a wide variety of services, including strategic advice, message development, negotiations/mediation and government relations strategies. RKC brings a vast knowledge of all levels of government and can guide clients through the maze of both bureaucratic and regulatory concerns. In addition, they can develop, direct and implement a communications strategy to specific stakeholders. Targeting interest groups and helping clients gain entry into organizations, stakeholders and corporations through their vast contacts and decades of relationships is their specialty.
Mr. Katz was California's lead negotiator for the landmark Colorado River Agreement between the State of California, the Federal Government, four California Water Agencies, and the six Colorado River Basin States, furthering his expertise as a negotiator on issues of statewide significance. Mr. Katz had already played a pivotal role in renegotiating $30 Billion worth of California's
Energy contracts and developing California's Transportation Blueprint for the 21st Century, which the voters approved as Proposition III in 1990.
Shortly after his election in June of 2005, Los Angeles Mayor Antonio Villaraigosa appointed Mr. Katz to serve with him on the Governing Board of the Metropolitan Transportation Authority. After the horrific Metrolink accident in 2008, the Mayor appointed Mr. Katz to the Metrolink Board, where he now serves as Chair.
In January 2003, Governor Davis appointed Mr. Katz his Senior Advisor on Energy and Water issues. In 2001, Mr. Katz was appointed to the State Water Resources Control Board, confirmed by the Senate and served for six years, occupying the water quality seat.
Mr. Katz was first elected to the California State Assembly in 1980 and served continuously for 16 years. As Democratic Leader in 1995, Mr. Katz led the Democratic Party back to majority status by winning 43 seats in the 1996 elections. California's term limits law prohibited Mr. Katz from seeking re-election.
For 10 years, Mr. Katz served as Chair of the powerful Assembly Transportation Committee. Katz authored Proposition 111, a 10-year Transportation Blueprint passed by the voters. He created the Congestion Management Plan, requiring cities and counties to measure and mitigate impacts of land use decisions on their streets, highways and transit systems. Mr. Katz also spearheaded numerous investigations of governmental waste.
In addition to serving as Chair of the Transportation Committee, Mr. Katz worked in policy areas including education, environment, criminal justice and consumer issues. Some of his accomplishments include laws he wrote dealing with prison reform, groundwater protection, computer education, a $100 million school bus replacement program, Mono Lake restoration and landmark water market legislation.
Mr. Katz was Chair of Angelinos for Better Classrooms, which led the successful 1997 campaign to pass a $2.4 billion L.A. school bond. Mr. Katz currently serves on the Management Committee and Board of the Economic Alliance of the San Fernando Valley and the Boards of Heal the Bay, Valley Presbyterian Hospital, The Children's Community School, Project Grad and the West Coast Sports Medicine Foundation.
WILLIAM ("SMOKEY") ROBINSON JR., DIRECTOR
Smokey Robinson has had a 50 year career in music.
Once pronounced by Bob Dylan as America's "greatest living poet," acclaimed singer-songwriter Smokey Robinson's career spans over 4 decades of hits. He has received numerous awards including the Grammy Living Legend Award, NARAS Lifetime Achievement Award, Honorary Doctorate (Howard University), Kennedy Center Honors and the National Medal of Arts Award from the President of the United States. He has also been inducted into the Rock `n' Roll Hall of Fame and the Songwriters' Hall of Fame.
Born and raised in Detroit, Michigan, Robinson founded The Miracles while still in high school. The group was Berry Gordy's first vocal group, and it was at Robinson's suggestion that Gordy started the Motown Record dynasty. Their single of Robinson's "Shop Around" became Motown's first #1 hit on the R&B singles chart. In the years following, Robinson continued to pen hits for the group including "You've Really Got a Hold on Me," "Ooo Baby Baby," "The Tracks of My Tears," "Going to a Go-Go," "More Love," "Tears of a Clown" (co-written with Stevie Wonder), and "I Second That Emotion."
The Miracles dominated the R&B scene throughout the 1960's and early 70's and Robinson became Vice President of Motown Records serving as in-house producer, talent scout and songwriter.
In addition to writing hits for the Miracles, Robinson wrote and produced hits for other Motown greats including The Temptations, Mary Wells, Brenda Holloway, Marvin Gaye and others. "The Way You Do the Things You Do," "My Girl,"
"Get Ready," "You Beat Me to the Punch," "Don't Mess with Bill," "Ain't That Peculiar," and "My Guy" are just a few of his songwriting triumphs during those years.
John Lennon of The Beatles made countless remarks regarding Robinson's influence on his music. The Beatles had recorded Robinson and The Miracles' "You've Really Got A Hold On Me" in 1963 and in 1982 another popular British group, The Rolling Stones covered the Robinson and the Miracles' hit "Going To A Go-Go."
He later turned to a solo career where he continued his tradition of hit making with "Just to See Her," "Quiet Storm," "Cruisin'," and "Being with You," among others.
He remained Vice President of Motown records until the sale of the company, shaping the label's success with friend and mentor Berry Gordy. Following his tenure at Motown, he continued his impressive touring career and released several successful solo albums.
During the course of his 50-year career in music, Robinson has accumulated more than 4,000 songs to his credit and continues to thrill sold-out audiences around the world with his high tenor voice, impeccable timing, and profound sense of lyric. Never resting on his laurels, Smokey Robinson remains a beloved icon in our musical heritage.
COMMITTEES OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
We do not currently have an audit committee or a compensation committee.
COMPENSATION OF DIRECTORS
Our directors receive compensation in the form of common stock and stock options.
DIRECTORSHIPS
During the past five years, none of our directors or persons nominated or chosen to become directors held any other directorship in any company with a class of securities registered pursuant to Section 12 of the 1934 Act or subject to the requirements of Section 15(d) of such Act or any other company registered as an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940.
OTHER SIGNIFICANT EMPLOYEES
No other significant employees exist.
FAMILY RELATIONSHIPS
No family relationship exists between or among any of our officers and directors. However, one of our Directors, Terry S. Adams, is the son of George Adams, Sr., our largest shareholder, and another one of our Directors, Frederick Feck, is the brother-in-law of George Adams, Sr.
INVOLVEMENT IN CERTAIN LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
Except as described below, during the past ten years, no present director, executive officer or person nominated to become a director or an executive officer of Ciralight:
(1) had a petition under the federal bankruptcy laws or any state insolvency law filed by or against, or a receiver, fiscal agent or similar officer appointed by a court for the business or property of such person, or any partnership in which he was a general partner at or within two years before the time of such filing, or any corporation or business association of which he was an executive officer at or within two years before the time of such filing;
(2) was convicted in a criminal proceeding or subject to a pending criminal proceeding (excluding traffic violations and other minor offenses); (3) was subject to any order, judgment or decree, not subsequently reversed, suspended or vacated, of any court of competent jurisdiction, permanently or temporarily enjoining him from or otherwise limiting his involvement in any of the following activities:
(i) acting as a futures commission merchant, introducing broker, commodity trading advisor, commodity pool operator, floor broker, leverage transaction merchant, any other person regulated by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, or an associated person of any of the foregoing, or as an investment adviser, underwriter, broker or dealer in securities, or as an affiliated person, director or employee of any investment company, bank, savings and loan association or insurance company, or engaging in or continuing any conduct or practice in connection with such activity; (ii) engaging in any type of business practice; or (iii)engaging in any activity in connection with the purchase or sale of any security or commodity or in connection with any violation of federal or state securities laws or federal commodities laws; or
(4) was the subject of any order, judgment or decree, not subsequently reversed, suspended or vacated, of an federal or state authority barring, suspending or otherwise limiting for more than 60 days the right of such person to engage in any activity described in paragraph (3) (i), above, or to be associated with persons engaged in any such activity; or (5) was found by a court of competent jurisdiction (in a civil action), the Securities and Exchange Commission or the Commodity Futures Trading Commission to have violated a federal or state securities or commodities law, and for which the judgment has not been reversed, suspended or vacated; (6) was found by a court of competent jurisdiction in a civil action or by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission to have violated any Federal commodities law, and the judgment in such civil action or finding by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission has not been subsequently reversed, suspended or vacated; (7) was the subject of, or a party to, any Federal or State judicial or administrative order, judgment, decree, or finding, not subsequently reversed, suspended or vacated, relating to any alleged violation of:
(i.) Any Federal or State securities or commodities law or regulation; or (ii.)Any law or regulation respecting financial institutions or insurance companies including, but not limited to, a temporary or permanent injunction, order of disgorgement or restitution, civil money penalty or temporary or permanent cease-and-desist order, or removal or prohibition order; or (iii.) Any law or regulation prohibiting mail or wire fraud or fraud in connection with any business entity; or
(8) was the subject of, or a party to, any sanction or order, not subsequently reversed, suspended or vacated, of any self-regulatory organization (as defined in Section 3(a)(26) of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(26)), and registered entity (as defined in Section 1(a)(29) of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C.1(a)(29)), or any equivalent exchange, association, entity or organization that has disciplinary authority over its members or persons associated with a member.
CODE OF BUSINESS CONDUCT AND ETHICS
On December 14, 2009, we adopted a Code of Business Conduct and Ethics applicable to our officers, including our principal executive officer, principal financial officer, principal accounting officer or controller and any other persons performing similar functions. Our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics was designed to deter wrongdoing and promote honest and ethical conduct, full, fair and accurate disclosure, compliance with laws, prompt internal reporting and accountability to adherence to our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics. Our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics is posted on our website at http://www.ciralightglobal.com. Our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics will be provided free of charge by us to interested parties upon request. Requests should be made in writing and directed to the Ciralight at the following address: 670 E. Parkridge, Suite 112, Corona, California 92879
ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION.
The following table sets forth the aggregate compensation paid by the Company to our executive officers and directors of the Company for services rendered during the periods indicated. Jeffrey Bain was appointed President and Chief Executive Officer on March 19, 2010.
SUMMARY COMPENSATION TABLE
---------- (1) The amounts listed in this column for 2010 reflect the fair value of certain stock options granted to Messrs. Brain and Feck during 2010. On December 30, 2010, the Company's Board of Directors approved and adopted the Company's 2010 Employee and Consultant Stock Incentive Plan ("Plan") and reserved a total of 800,000 shares of common stock for issuance pursuant to the Plan. On December 30, 2010, the Board of Directors granted a total of 605,000 options at an exercise price of $.425 per share, exercisable over five years from the date of grant. 275,000 stock options were granted to the Company's President, Jeffrey Brain, for achieving certain milestones and for serving on the Board of Directors. 100,000 stock options were granted to Frederick Feck, a Director of the Company, for serving on the Board of Directors in 2010. The fair values were determined in accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Codification Topic 718, Share-Based Payments (FASB ASC 718). (2) The amounts listed in this column for 2011 reflect the fair value of certain stock options granted to Messrs. Brain and Feck in January 2012, for services rendered during 2011. In January 2012, the Company's Board of Directors approved and adopted the Company's 2012 Employee and Consultant Stock Incentive Plan ("Plan") and reserved a total of 621,500 shares of common stock for issuance pursuant to the Plan. In January 2012, the Board of Directors granted a total of 200,000 options to members of our Board of Directors at an exercise price of $.4675 per share, exercisable over five years from the date of grant. 100,000 stock options were granted to the Jeffrey S. Brain and 100,000 stock options were granted to Frederick Feck for serving on the Board of Directors in 2011. The fair values were determined in accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Codification Topic 718, Share-Based Payments (FASB ASC 718). (3) During 2012 the Directors of the Board received compensation in the form of common stock and stock options for their service. The common stock and stock options commenced on May 1, 2012 for all the Directors including Terry Adams, Jeff Brain, Fred Feck, Larry Eisenberg, Richard Katz, and William Robinson Jr. The Director receives 4,167 shares per month. Based on the stock value this is $2,292 per month. Plus each Director receives 4,167 stock options with the right to buy the stock at $.4675 per share good for 5 years. Jeff Brain and Fred Feck received options for the period of January 1, 2012 through April 30, 2012. During this period they were the only Board Members. Vacancies on the Board were filled as of May 1, 2012. The fair values were determined in accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Codification Topic 718, Share-Based Payments (FASB ASC 718). (4) Includes (i) $17,818 in health and dental insurance premiums paid by the Company for Mr. Brain and his dependents; (ii) $9,108 as an automobile allowance from the Company; and (iii) $1,000 is royalty payments assigned to Mr. Brain by our majority shareholder, George Adams, Sr. See CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE. (5) In January 2012, the Board of Directors granted 7,500 shares of restricted common stock to Mr. Brain for services rendered in 2011 as our Chief Executive Officer. The fair value of these shares was determined to be $4,125 in accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Codification Topic 718, Share-Based Payments (FASB ASC 718). (6) Includes (i) $20,542 in health and dental insurance premiums paid by the Company for Mr. Brain and his dependents; (ii) $9,108 as an automobile allowance from the Company; and (iii) $5,000 is royalty payments assigned to Mr. Brain by our majority shareholder, George Adams, Sr., less $3,000 of such royalty payments assigned by Mr. Brain to Jacqui Matsumoto, one of our employees. See CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE. (7) Includes (i) $14,256 in health insurance benefits paid by the Company for Mr. Brain and his dependents; (ii) $1,518 as an automobile allowance from the Company; and (iii) $25,860 is royalty payments assigned to Mr. Brain by our majority shareholder, George Adams, Sr. See CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE.
(8) Represents rental payments to Mr. Feck in the amount of $3,000 per month for the lease of our Corona, California warehouse facility from January 1, 2010 through December 31, 2012, on a verbal month to month lease. (9) William Robinson Jr. also known as Smokey Robinson received common stock as compensation for his marketing and promotion work on behalf of the company. Mr. Robinson received 4,167 shares of common stock per month for his services. This is estimated based on the stock value to be worth $2,292 per month. The fair values were determined in accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Codification Topic 718, Share-Based Payments (FASB ASC 718).
EMPLOYMENT CONTRACTS
We do not have any employment agreements with our employees or officers.
COMPENSATION DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
We have prepared the following Compensation Discussion and Analysis to provide you with information that we believe is necessary to understand our executive compensation policies and decisions as they relate to the compensation of our named executive officers.
We have six members on our board of directors and do not currently have a compensation committee. We intend to form and constitute a compensation committee of our board of directors now that the Board has been expanded to six members.
The primary objectives of the compensation committee with respect to executive compensation will be to (i) attract and retain the best possible executive talent available to us; (ii) motivate our executive officers to enhance our growth and profitability and increase shareholder value; and (iii) reward superior performance and contributions to the achievement of corporate objectives.
The focus of our executive pay strategy will be to tie short-term and long-term cash and equity incentives to the achievement of measurable corporate and individual performance objectives or benchmarks and to align executive compensation with the creation and enhancement of shareholder value. In order to achieve these objectives, our compensation committee will be tasked with developing and maintaining a transparent compensation plan that will tie a substantial portion of our executives' overall compensation to our sales, operational efficiencies and profitability.
Our board of directors has not set any performance objectives or benchmarks for 2012, as it intends for those objectives and benchmarks to be determined by the compensation committee once it is constituted and then approved by the board. However, we anticipate that compensation benefits will include competitive salaries, bonuses (cash and equity based), health insurance and stock option plans.
When constituted, our compensation committee will meet at least quarterly to assess the cost and effectiveness of each executive benefit and the performance of our executive officers in light of our revenues, expenses and profits.
SHARE-BASED COMPENSATION PLAN
On January 1, 2012, the Company's Board of Directors approved and adopted the Company's 2012 Employee and Consultant Stock Incentive Plan ("Plan") and reserved a total of 621,500 shares of common stock for issuance pursuant to the Plan. The purpose of this Plan is to provide incentives to attract, retain and motivate eligible persons whose present and potential contributions are important to the success of the Company by offering them an opportunity to participate in the Company's future performance through awards of Options, Restricted Stock and Stock Bonuses.
PLAN INFORMATION
Stock options exercisable into an aggregate of 1,419,568 shares of the Company's common stock were outstanding on March 28, 2013, of which 1,419,568 were vested as of March 28, 2013. Stock options exercisable into an aggregate of 440,668 shares of the Company's common stock were granted and vested during fiscal year 2012 for services performed during the 2012 fiscal year. The Black-Scholes option-pricing model was used to estimate the option fair values, in accordance with the provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 148, "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation -- Transition and Disclosure." This option-pricing model requires a number of assumptions, of which the most significant are, expected stock price volatility, the expected pre-vesting forfeiture rate and the expected option term (the amount of time from the grant date until the options are exercised or expire). Since the Company's stock does not have an extended history of stock prices or volatility, expected volatility and average contractual life variables were estimated utilizing a weighted average of comparable published volatilities and contractual lives based on industry comparables. Expected pre-vesting forfeitures were estimated based on expected employee turnover. The fair value of options granted during the year ended December 31, 2012, was estimated as of the grant date using the Black-Scholes option pricing model with the following assumptions: a dividend yield of zero percent, an expected volatility of between 70.1% and 71.0%, a risk-free interest rate of 0.89% and a remaining contractual life of between 1.0 and 5.0 years. The fair value of options granted during the year ended December 31, 2011 was estimated as of the grant date using the Black-Scholes option pricing model with the following assumptions: a dividend yield of zero percent, an expected volatility of between 70.1% and 74.4%, a risk-free interest rate of 0.89% and a remaining contractual life of between 1.0 and 5.0 years.
AGGREGATE OPTION/SAR EXERCISES AND FISCAL YEAR-END OPTION/SAR VALUE TABLE
There have been no exercises of stock options or SARs by our directors or executive officers.
LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PLAN AWARDS
There have been no long-term incentive plan awards made by the company.
REPRICING OPTIONS
We have not re-priced any stock options.
ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS.
The following tables set forth the ownership of our common stock and preferred stock by (a) each person known by us to be the beneficial owner of more than 5% of our outstanding common stock and preferred stock; and (b) by all of named officers and our directors and by all of our named executive officers and directors as a group. To the best of our knowledge, the persons named have sole voting and investment power with respect to such shares and are beneficial owners of the shares indicated in the tables, except as otherwise noted by footnote.
The information presented below regarding beneficial ownership of our voting securities has been presented in accordance with the rules of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and is not necessarily indicative of ownership for any other purpose. Under these rules, a person is deemed to be a "beneficial owner" of a security if that person has or shares the power to vote or direct the voting of the security or the power to dispose or direct the disposition of the security. A person is deemed to own beneficially any security as to which such person has the right to acquire sole or shared voting or investment power within 60 days through the conversion or exercise of any convertible security, warrant, option or other right. More than one person may be deemed to be a beneficial owner of the same securities. The percentage of beneficial ownership by any person as of a particular date is calculated by dividing the number of shares beneficially owned by such person, which includes the number of shares as to which such person has the right to acquire voting or investment power within 60 days, by the sum of the number of shares outstanding as of such date plus the number of shares as to which such person has the right to acquire voting or investment power within 60 days. Consequently, the denominator used for calculating such percentage may be different for each beneficial owner. Except as otherwise indicated below, we believe that the beneficial owners of our common stock listed below have sole voting and investment power with respect to the shares shown.
(a) Security ownership of certain beneficial owners:
Name and Address of Amount and Nature of Percent Title of Class Beneficial Owner Beneficial Ownership of Class -------------- ---------------- -------------------- -------- Common Stock George Adams, Sr. 4,823,224(1) 30.98% 3200 E. Frontera Street Anaheim, California 92806
Common Stock Jeffrey S. Brain 1,376,663(2) 8.90% 670 E. Parkridge, Suite 112 Corona, California 92879
Common Stock Frederick Feck 920,002(3) 5.95% 670 E. Parkridge, Suite 112 Corona, California 92879
---------- (1) In addition to the 4,823,224 shares owned of record and beneficially by Mr. Adams, Mr. Adams owns 1,000,000 shares of Series A Preferred Stock. The combination of common stock and the voting rights for the Series A Preferred Stock result in Mr. Adams having the right to cast 51% of all votes in the election of our directors and on any acquisition or merger transaction in which we may become involved in the future. (2) These shares are registered in the name of Bayport Holding Company, LLC, Jeffrey S. Brain's 100% owned, personal holding company. Mr. Brain is the indirect beneficial owner of, and has sole dispositive and voting power over, these shares. Of these shares, 934,955 of these shares represent common stock issued and options to purchase 441,668 shares of common stock that are exercisable within the next 60 days.
(3) Includes options to purchase 266,668 shares of common stock that are exercisable within the next 60 days.
Name and Address of Amount and Nature of Percent Title of Class Beneficial Owner Beneficial Ownership of Class -------------- ---------------- -------------------- -------- Series A George Adams, Sr. 5,000,000 (1) 100.00% Preferred Stock 3200 E. Frontera Street Anaheim, California 92806
---------- (1) In addition to the 1,000,000 shares of Series A Preferred Stock owned of record and beneficially by Mr. Adams, Mr. Adams owns 4,823,224 shares of common stock. The combination of common stock and the voting rights for the Series A Preferred Stock result in Mr. Adams having the right to cast 51% of all votes in the election of our directors and on any acquisition or merger transaction in which we may become involved in the future.
(b) Security ownership of management:
Name and Address of Percent Title of Class Beneficial Owner Beneficial Ownership of Class -------------- ---------------- -------------------- -------- Common Stock Jeffrey S. Brain 1,376,663(1) 8.90% Common Stock Frederick Feck 920,002(2) 5.95% Common Stock Terry Adams 580,700(3) 3.75% Common Stock Larry Eisenberg 66,668(4) .43% Common Stock Richard Katz 66,668(5) .43% Common Stock William Robinson Jr. 137,002(6) .89% Common Stock All officers and directors 3,231,703 20.96% as a group (6 persons)
---------- (1) Includes 934,745 shares registered in the name of Bayport Holding Company, LLC, Jeffrey S. Brain's 100% owned, personal holding company. Mr. Brain is the indirect beneficial owner of, and has sole dispositive and voting power over, these shares, plus 250 shares in the name of Jeffrey S. Brain. Of these shares, 934,995 shares represent common stock issued or purchased and options to purchase 441,668 shares of common stock that are exercisable within the next 60 days. (2) Includes 593,334 shares of common stock plus options to purchase 266,668 shares of common stock that are exercisable within the next 60 days. (3) Includes 447,366 shares of common Stock and options to purchase 233,334 shares of common stock that are exercisable within the next 60 days. In addition Terry Adams has a note that is convertible to stock if the principle balance is not paid. The balance as of April 9, 2013, is $275,000 and the note is convertible at $.10 per share. (4) Includes 33,334 shares of common Stock and options to purchase 33,334 shares of common stock that are exercisable within the next 60 days. (5) Includes 33,334 shares of common Stock and options to purchase 33,334 shares of common stock that are exercisable within the next 60 days. (6) Includes 97,668 shares of common Stock and options to purchase 33,334 shares of common stock that are exercisable within the next 60 days.
(c) Changes in control:
We are not aware of any arrangements, including any pledge by any person of our securities, the operation of which may at a subsequent date result in a change in control of the Company.
SECTION 16(A) COMPLIANCE
Section 16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 requires the Company's executive officers, directors and persons who own more than ten percent of the Company's Common Stock, to file initial reports of beneficial ownership on Form 3, changes in beneficial ownership on Form 4 and an annual statement of beneficial ownership on Form 5, with the SEC. Such executive officers, directors and greater than ten percent shareholders are required by SEC rules to furnish the Company with copies of all such forms that they have filed.
Based on its review of the copies of such form filed with the SEC electronically, received by the Company and representations from certain reporting persons, the Company believes that for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2012, and up through the quarterly period ending March 31, 2013, all the officers, directors and more than 10% beneficial owners have filed all reports required under the above described filing requirements, except for Directors Adams, Katz, Eisenberg and Robinson due to an administrative oversight.
ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE.
Although we have not adopted formal procedures for the review, approval or ratification of transactions with related persons, we adhere to a general policy that such transactions should only be entered into if they are on terms that, on the whole, are no more favorable, or no less favorable, than those available from unaffiliated third parties and their approval is in accordance with applicable law. Such transactions require the approval of our board of directors.
ITEM 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES.
HJ Associates and Consultants, LLP was the Company's independent auditor for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2012.
AUDIT FEES. During the fiscal year ended December 31, 2012, the aggregate fees billed by the Company's auditors for services rendered for the audit of our annual financial statements and the review of the financial statements included in our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and for services provided in connection with the statutory and regulatory filings or engagements for 2012, was $50,000. During the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011, the aggregate fees billed by the Company's auditors for services rendered for the audit of our annual financial statements and the review of the financial statements included in our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and for services provided in connection with the statutory and regulatory filings or engagements for 2011, was $50,000.
AUDIT-RELATED FEES. During the fiscal year ended December 31, 2012, the aggregate fees billed by the Company's auditors for audit-related services was $0. During the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011, the aggregate fees billed by the Company's auditors for services related to amendments to our Form S-1 registration statement reviews was $6,470.
TAX FEES. Our auditors provided tax preparation services of $1,580 and $1,260 during the fiscal years ended December 31, 2012, and 2011, respectively.
ALL OTHER FEES. No other fees were billed to the Company by our auditors during the fiscal years ended December 31, 2012, and 2011.
PRE-APPROVAL POLICIES AND PROCEDURES. The Board of Directors is responsible for appointing, setting compensation, and overseeing the work of the independent auditor. The Board has no established policy regarding pre-approval of any audit or permissible non-audit services provided by the independent auditor.
ITEM 15. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES.
(a) (1) Financial Statements
Financial statements for Ciralight Global, Inc. listed in the Index to Financial Statements and Supplementary Data on page are filed as part of this Annual Report.
(a) (2) Financial Statement Schedule
Financial Statement Schedule for Ciralight Global, Inc. listed in the Index to Financial Statements and Supplementary Data on page are filed as part of this Annual Report.
(a) (3) See the "Index to Exhibits" set forth below.
(b) See Exhibit Index below for exhibits required by Item 601 of Regulation S-K
EXHIBIT INDEX
List of Exhibits attached or incorporated by reference pursuant to Item 601 of Regulation S-K
3(i).1* Articles of Incorporation of Ciralight West, Inc. filed February 26, 2009, with the Secretary of
3(i).2* Certificate of Amendment to the Articles of Incorporation filed on March 13, 2009, with the Secretary of State of Nevada(changing name to Ciralight Global, Inc.).
3(i).3* Certificate of Amendment to the Articles of Incorporation filed on April 22, 2009, with the Secretary of State of Nevada.
3(ii)* By-Laws of Ciralight Global, Inc.
4.1* Certificate of Designation of Series A Preferred Stock filed on July 22, 2009, with the Secretary of State of Nevada
4.2** 2010 Employee and Consultant Stock Incentive Plan
4.3*** 2012 Employee and Consultant Stock Incentive Plan
10.1* Exchange of Stock for Assets Agreement dated as of April 1, 2009, by and between Ciralight Global, Inc. and George Adams, Sr.
10.2* Amendment to Exchange of Stock for Assets Agreement by and between Ciralight Global,Inc. and George Adams, Sr. dated December 15, 2009.
10.3* Assignment of Issued United States Patent and Pending United States Patent Application dated December 17, 2009
10.4* Domestic Non-Exclusive Dealer Agreement(undated and unsigned prototype)
10.5* Domestic Non-Exclusive Distribution Agreement(undated and unsigned prototype)
10.6* Domestic Non-Exclusive Dealer Agreement by and between Ciralight Global, Inc. and Globalight Energy Solutions, LLC dated as of December 1, 2009
10.7* Domestic Non-Exclusive Dealer Agreement by and between Ciralight Global, Inc. and Chaparral Green Energy Solutions, LLC dated as of January 1, 2010
10.8* Domestic Non-Exclusive Dealer Agreement dated December 1, 2009, by and between Ciralight Global, Inc. and Green Tech Design-Build, Inc.
10.9* International Distribution Agreement dated January 15, 2010, by and between Ciralight Global, Inc. and ZEEV Shimon & Sons, Ltd.
10.10* International Dealership Agreement dated June 18, 2009, by and between Ciralight Global, Inc. and RSB Construction LTD.
10.11* Domestic Non-Exclusive Dealer Agreement dated April 1, 2010, by and between Ciralight Global, Inc. and J-MACS Consulting, LLC.
10.12* Domestic Non-Exclusive Dealer Agreement dated April 15, 2010, by and between Ciralight Global, Inc. and The Energy Solutions Group Worldwide, LLC.
10.13* Domestic Non-Exclusive Dealer Agreement dated April 15, 2010, by and between Ciralight Global, Inc. and Kemper & Associates, Inc., d/b/a Total Roofing & Reconstruction.
10.14* Domestic Non-Exclusive Dealer Agreement dated December 1, 2009, by and between Ciralight Global, Inc. and Eco-Smart, Inc.
10.15* Commercial Lease Agreement dated April 1, 2010, by and between Ciralight Global, Inc. and Frederick Feck.
10.16* Material Liability Agreement dated September 3, 2009, by and between Ciralight Global, Inc. and Suntron Corporation.
10.17* Material Terms and Conditions of Verbal Office Lease for Executive Offices in Irvine, California.
10.18* Material Terms and Conditions of Verbal Office Lease for Warehouse/Offices in Corona, California
14* Code of Business Conduct and Ethics
21***** Subsidiaries.
31.1**** Certification of Principal Executive Officer Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350
31.2**** Certification of Principal Financial Officer Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350
32.1**** 906 Certification of Principal Executive Officer
32.2**** 906 Certification of Principal Financial Officer
101**** Interactive data files pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T.
---------- * Incorporated by reference from the Company's Form S-1 registration statement filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (File No. 333-165638) that went effective on July 29, 2010. ** Incorporated by reference Exhibit 99.1 of the Company's Form 8-K Current Report filed with the Commission on January 6, 2010. *** Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 of the Company's Post-effective Amendment No. 1 to Form S-8 registration statement filed with the Commission on February 14, 2012. **** Filed herewith.
SIGNATURES
In accordance with Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
Ciralight Global, Inc.
Dated: April 16, 2013 /s/ Jeffrey S. Brain -------------------------------------- By: Jeffrey S. Brain Its: President and Chief Executive Officer
In accordance with the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.
Dated: April 16, 2013 /s/ Jeffrey S. Brain -------------------------------------- By: Jeffrey S. Brain Its: President, Chief Executive Officer and Director (Principal Executive Officer) (Principal Financial Officer) (Principal Accounting Officer)
Dated: April 16, 2013 /s/ Terry S. Adams -------------------------------------- By: Terry S. Adams Its:Chairman of the Board and Director
Dated: April 16, 2013 /s/ Frederick Feck -------------------------------------- By: Frederick Feck Its: Corporate Secretary and Director
Dated: April 16, 2013 /s/ Larry Eisenberg -------------------------------------- By: Larry Eisenberg Its: Director
Dated: April 16, 2013 /s/ Richard Katz -------------------------------------- By: Richard Katz Its: Director
Dated: April 16, 2013 /s/ William Robinson, Jr. -------------------------------------- By: William Robinson, Jr. Its: Director
CIRALIGHT GLOBAL, INC.
Page Number ------
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2012 and 2011
Statements of Operations for the years ended December 31, 2012 and December 31, 2011
Statement of Changes in Stockholder's Equity (Deficit) for the years ended December 31, 2012 and December 31, 2011
Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended December 31, 2012 and December 31, 2011
Notes to Financial Statements
REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM
To the Board of Directors Ciralight Global, Inc. Corona, California
We have audited the accompanying balance sheets of Ciralight Global, Inc. as of December 31, 2012 and 2011, and the related statements of operations, stockholders' equity (deficit), and cash flows for the years then ended. These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. The Company is not required to have, nor were we engaged to perform, an audit of its internal control over financial reporting. Our audits included consideration of internal control over financial reporting as a basis for designing audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Company's internal control over financial reporting. Accordingly, we express no such opinion. An audit also includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Ciralight Global, Inc. as of December 31, 2012 and 2011, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for the years then ended, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.
/s/ HJ Associates & Consultants, LLP ---------------------------------------------- HJ Associates & Consultants, LLP Salt Lake City, Utah April 16, 2013
CIRALIGHT GLOBAL, INC BALANCE SHEETS
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.
CIRALIGHT GLOBAL, INC STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.
CIRALIGHT GLOBAL, INC STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDER'S EQUITY (DEFICIT)
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.
CIRALIGHT GLOBAL, INC STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.
CIRALIGHT GLOBAL, INC. NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
1. Background and Basis of Presentation:
Ciralight Global, Inc. (the "Company") was incorporated in the State of Nevada on February 26, 2009. The Company is in the business of designing, developing, and distributing proprietary advanced day lighting systems for traditional non-residential markets that benefit from natural lighting.
In April 2009, we entered into an Exchange of Stock for Assets Agreement with Mr. George Adams, Sr. ("Adams Agreement") to acquire certain assets including, but not limited to, a U.S. patent, patent applications pending in Canada, Europe, Mexico and the United States, artwork, trademarks, equipment, furniture, databases, technical drawings, promotional materials, trade names and inventory parts and marketing rights related to the SunTracker One(TM) and SunTracker Two(TM) daylighting products previously owned and distributed by Ciralight, Inc., a Utah corporation, such assets having been foreclosed on by Mr. Adams, who was the secured creditor of Ciralight, Inc. Ciralight, Inc. is a predecessor to the Company, although we have no affiliation, contractual or otherwise, with Ciralight, Inc. or any of its employees, officers or directors.
Ciralight, Inc., the company whose assets were foreclosed on by Mr. Adams, was also in the business of designing, developing, and distributing proprietary advanced day lighting systems for traditional non-residential markets that benefit from natural lighting. Ciralight, Inc. ceased operations on March 14, 2009, following the foreclosure by Mr. Adams. Since the acquisition of the assets was through a foreclosure, the former company and its officers remain liable for the Ciralight Inc.'s debts and the Company has no financial responsibility for those debts. None of the employees or management of Ciralight Inc. are involved in the Company. The business operations of our Company are located in Corona, California and the Company operates with four employees, the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer / Chief Operations Officer, a warehouse manager and an executive assistant.
In April 2009, we acquired all of the above described assets from Mr. Adams, except for the U.S. patent, the patent application pending in Canada (which was granted subsequent February 26, 2013), and the patent applications pending in Europe, Mexico and the United States, in exchange for 3,200,000 shares of our common stock and 1,000,000 shares of our Series A Preferred Stock. On December 15, 2009, we acquired the U.S. patent and patent applications pending in Canada (granted February 26, 2013), Europe, Mexico and the United States from Mr. Adams in exchange for the issuance by us of an additional 400,000 shares of our common stock and a convertible promissory note in the amount of $250,000. The note is convertible into shares of our common stock at a conversion rate of one share per $.25 of outstanding principal and interest. As a result of this transaction, Mr. Adams is our largest shareholder.
We currently own United States Letters Patent No. 7,430,077 for "Solar Tracking Reflector System for Structure Lighting," which issued on September 30, 2008, and which we acquired in December 2009. This patent covers our three mirror system that is included in our SunTracker One product and expires on May 25, 2027. We also own United States Patent Application No. 12/323,935 for "Solar Tracking Reflector System for Structure Lighting," which was filed on November 26, 2008, and acquired by us in December 2009. Our U.S. patent application covers our "one or more" mirror system and, therefore covers both our SunTracker One(TM) product (which has three mirrors) and our SunTracker Two(TM) product (which has one mirror). On June 14, 2010, the United States Patent and Trademark Office allowed our U.S. Patent Application by issuing a Notice of Allowance and Notice of Allowability. Our application has entered the issue process and should issue in due course.
We currently have one European patent application pending before the European Patent Office (European Patent Application No. 07797814.6). The European Patent Office has approved the patent for issuance and Ciralight Global is in the process of validating the European Patent in the desired European Countries. On March 8, 2013 our Canadian patent application pending before the Canadian Intellectual Property Office (Canadian Patent Application No. 2,667,258) was
approved for our one mirror or more design.. On June 25, 2010, our Mexican patent application before the Mexican Institute of Industrial Property (Mexican Patent Application No. MX/a/2008/015119) was approved for our one mirror or more design. We do not have any products that are not covered by our US, Canadian or Mexican Patents or our European patent applications.
Except for our U.S., Canadian and Mexico patents and our patent applications pending in Europe, we have no other patent rights.
In addition, we are in the process of registering various trademarks for which we have common law rights. We also own certain trade secrets and formulae.
Reclassifications
Certain balances in prior year financial statements have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation.
2. Liquidity and Operations:
The Company had net losses of $1,104,813, and $927,072 for the years ended December 31, 2012, and December 31, 2011, respectively.
As of December 31, 2012, the Company had cash of approximately $88,696 made up of $81,060 in available cash and $7,636 in restricted cash. In addition, the Company had accounts receivable of approximately $244,325, inventory on hand at a cost valuation of approximately $128,543, all fully paid for, and accounts payable of approximately $235,586. The revolving line of credit consists of advances from related parties and amounted to $563,000 as of December 31, 2012. The Company finalized an agreement with the Adams family in which the Company will grant one stock option for each dollar loaned by the Adams family for the maximum amount borrowed by the Company against the line of credit. The agreement is for a term of one year and the options will have an exercise price of $.50 per option, will be exercisable over five years and will vest quarterly, based on the amount of credit line outstanding at the end of each calendar quarter. In addition, the interest rate agreed upon is 2% over the treasury rate on the outstanding amount of the credit line.
The Company has experienced losses primarily attributable to research, development, marketing and other costs associated with the strategic plan to develop as a world class supplier of sustainable lighting technologies. Cash flows from operations have not been sufficient to meet our obligations. Therefore, we have had to raise funds through several financing transactions. At least until we reach breakeven volume in sales and develop and/or acquire the capability to manufacture and sell our products profitably, we will need to continue to rely on cash from external financing sources. Our operations during the year ended December 31, 2012 were financed by product sales contracts, common stock issuances, as well as from working capital reserves. At fiscal year end, the Company had $88,696 of cash and cash equivalents and short term investments. On March 23, 2012, the company obtained an additional $500,000 line of credit to meet operational and working capital needs.
In addition the company was recently approved by the XM Bank (by the Dept. Of Commerce) to insure and finance transactions for international Distributors and Dealers. This provides up to $270,000 in financing. Under this XM Bank program, the company will receive 90% of an international sale at the time the order ships thus improving the company's cash flow. The international Distributor and Dealer then have 90 days, instead of 21 days, to pay back the XM Bank which is a good incentive for our Distributors and Dealers to sell more product. When the Distributor or Dealer pays back XM Bank, the balance of the order is remitted to the Company. In addition, the Company will continue to obtain working capital by accessing capital markets. Management believes that with the additional line of credit that there is sufficient liquidity to carry on operations for the next twelve months. However, there can be no assurance that management will be able to fully deliver on its business plans.
3. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies:
Concentration of Cash Risk
The Company maintains its cash accounts primarily with banks located in California. The total cash balances are insured by the FDIC up to $250,000 per bank. At times, the amount of the Company's cash and cash equivalent exceeds the balance insured by the FDIC.
Cash and Cash Equivalents Policy - The company considers all highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less to be cash equivalents.
Accounts Receivable - The Company's accounts receivable are unsecured and the Company is at risk to the extent such amounts become uncollectible. Management continually monitors accounts receivable balances and provides for an allowance for doubtful accounts at the time collection becomes questionable based on payment history or age of the receivable. The Company sells products and services generally on terms of receiving a 50% deposit prior to shipment and the remaining 50% within 21 days of date of shipment. The Company charges nominal financing fees on late payments. Accounts receivable are charged to the allowance for bad debts when the Company has exhausted all reasonable means of collection. At December 31, 2012, Management deemed that an allowance of $23,425 should be recorded based on expected collections.
Inventory - Inventory consists of finished units, parts and packaging materials and is stated at lower of historical cost or current cost. Management will establish a reserve for damaged and discontinued inventory when determined necessary. At December 31, 2012 no reserve was required.
Property and Equipment - Property and equipment are stated at historical cost, which consists of the net book value of the assets carried on the prior company's books. Depreciation is computed over the estimated useful lives of the assets using the straight-line method generally over a 3- to 5-year period. Leasehold improvements will be amortized on the straight-line method over the life of the related lease. Expenditures for ordinary maintenance and repairs are charged to expense as incurred. Upon retirement or disposal of assets, the cost and accumulated depreciation are eliminated from the account and any gain or loss is reflected in the statement of operations. Depreciation expense for property and equipment is recorded as either cost of goods sold or general and administrative expense, depending on the use of the assets.
Stock Offering Costs - During 2010 and 2011, the Company recorded the organizational costs associated with the private placement offering as additional paid in capital and expensed the costs associated with taking the company public.
Impairment of Long Lived Assets - The Company evaluates its long-lived assets for impairment, in accordance with FASB ASC 360-10, when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the related carrying amount may not be recoverable. Impairment is considered to exist if the total estimated future cash flow on an undiscounted basis is less than the carrying amount of the related assets. An impairment loss is measured and recorded based on the discounted estimated future cash flows. Changes in significant assumptions underlying future cash flow estimates or fair values of assets may have a material effect on the Company's financial position and results of operations. No such impairment was indicated at December 31, 2012.
Shipping and Handling Costs - The Company includes shipping and handling costs that are billed to our customers in revenue and the actual costs incurred for shipping and handling are included in costs of goods sold in accordance with the provisions of FASB ASC 605-45-45-20. The related costs are considered necessary to complete the revenue cycle.
Revenue Recognition - The Company recognizes revenue from product sales when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, shipment has occurred, the seller's price to the buyer is fixed or determinable and collectability is reasonably assured.
Warranty Costs - Commencing April 1, 2009, the Company provided a five-year warranty covering the labor and materials associated with its installations. Effective September 1, 2009, the Company changed the coverage to ten years in the U.S. The Company's "advanced skylights" are warranted by the manufacturer for 10 years, generally. The Company (at its option) will repair, replace or give credit for the original purchase price on any of its products or parts. An accrual for a loss contingency has been made, since warranty expenses to date have been consistent and a reasonable estimate of future expenses can be made, in accordance with FASB ASC 460-10-50-8 (c)).
Changes in the liability for product warranty were as follows:
Product Warranty -------- Liability at December 31, 2010 $ 9,476 Settlements made during the period -- Change in liability for warranties issued during the period -- Change in liability for preexisting warranties -- ---------
Liability at December 31, 2011 $ 9,476 =========
Settlements made during the period $ (73,725) Change in liability for warranties issued during the period 101,599 Change in liability for preexisting warranties -- ---------
Liability at December 31, 2012 $ 37,350 =========
Research and Development Expenses - Research and development expenses are charged to operations in the period incurred. The amounts expensed for the years ended December 31, 2012, and 2011 were $62,559, and $37,262, respectively.
Selling and Marketing Expenses - Selling and marketing expenses are expensed as incurred. These expenses were $180,924, and $240,547, respectively, for the years ended December 31, 2012, and December 31, 2011 and consisted of the following:
2012 2011 -------- -------- Booth rental and advertising fees $ 20,564 $ 26,827 Event staffing, travel and shipping 27,295 53,943 Marketing consultants and materials 54,045 69,167 Royalty fees 15,720 22,140 Commissions 42,576 63,210 Sales support, recruitment and travel 20,724 5,260 -------- --------
Total Selling and Marketing Expenses $180,924 $240,547 ======== ========
The Adams Agreement described in Note 1 above, also granted Mr. Adams a royalty fee of $20.00 for each SunTracker One(TM) and SunTracker Two(TM) unit or any future units that are based on the patent rights we acquired from him. The maximum royalty fees payable under the Adams Agreement is $2,000,000 based on the sale of 100,000 units. At December 31, 2012, accrued royalties in the net amount after any royalty payments of $50,044, related to our sale of 2,552 units, is reflected on our financial statements.
General and Administrative Expenses - General and administrative expenses are expensed as incurred. These expenses were $960,148, and $884,732, respectively, for the years ended December 31, 2012 and December 31, 2011 and consisted of the following:
2012 2011 -------- -------- Computer and internet $ 11,036 $ 17,723 Insurance 67,148 60,554 Membership fees 6,025 4,452 Payroll and compensation 594,474 486,407 Accounting fees 80,420 94,227 Legal fees 50,757 39,111 Consulting fees 14,560 40,987 Rent and occupancy expenses 9,019 12,823 Warehouse expenses 60,743 65,022 Travel expenses 14,615 19,800 Office and administrative expenses 29,606 17,730 Bad debt expense 21,745 25,896 -------- --------
Total General & Administrative Expenses $960,148 $884,732 ======== ========
Concentrations of Credit Risk - Credit risk represents the accounting loss that would be recognized at the reporting date if counterparties failed completely to perform as contracted. Concentrations of credit risk (whether on or off balance sheet) that arise from financial instruments exist for groups of customers or counterparties when they have similar economic characteristics that would cause their ability to meet contractual obligations to be similarly affected by changes in economic or other conditions.
Financial instruments potentially subjecting the Company to concentrations of credit risk consist principally of accounts receivable. As of December 31, 2012, the top four distributors had balances representing 49% or more of the Company's accounts receivable.
Earnings Per share - Earnings per share is calculated by dividing the net profit for the year by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the financial year held by the company.
2012 2011 ----------- ----------- Net loss from operations $(1,104,813) $ (927,072) Basic loss per share $ (.08) $ (.07) Weighted average shares used in per share calculation 14,580,027 13,947,917
Use of Estimates - The preparation of the financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the balance sheet and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting period. Significant estimates include the Company's debt discount, and share-based compensation expense. Actual results could differ from these estimates.
Stock-Based Compensation - The Company accounts for stock-based compensation under the provisions of FASB ASC 718 (Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123 (revised 2004), "SHARE-BASED PAYMENT"), which requires the Company to measure the stock-based compensation costs of share-based
compensation arrangements based on the grant date fair value and generally recognizes the costs in the financial statements over the employee's requisite service period. Stock-based compensation expense for all stock-based compensation awards granted was based on the grant date fair value estimated in accordance with the provisions of FASB ASC 718.
The Company measures compensation expense for its non-employee stock-based compensation under FASB ASC 505-10 and 50, "Accounting for Equity Instruments that are Issued to Other Than Employees for Acquiring, or in Conjunction with Selling, Goods or Services". The fair value of the option issued is used to measure the transaction, as this is more reliable than the fair value of the services received. The fair value is measured at the value of the Company's common stock on the date that the commitment for performance by the counterparty has been reached or the counterparty's performance is complete. The fair value of the equity instrument is charged directly to compensation expense and additional paid-in capital.
The Company recognizes stock compensation expense by recording employee stock-based compensation using the fair value recognition provisions of Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC") Topic 718 ("ASC 718") using the modified prospective transition method, and recording non-employee stock-based compensation expense in accordance with ASC Topic 505.
Income Taxes - The Company accounts for its income taxes under the provisions of FASB-ASC-10 "Accounting for Income Taxes." This statement requires the use of the asset and liability method of accounting for deferred income taxes. Deferred income taxes reflect the net tax effects of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for income tax reporting purposes, at the applicable enacted tax rates. The Company provides a valuation allowance against its deferred tax assets when the future realizability of the assets is no longer considered to be more likely than not.
Convertible Notes Payable - The Company accounts for its convertible notes payable under the provisions of FASB ASC 470 (Staff Position No. APB 14-1 "Accounting for Convertible Debt Instruments that may be Settled in Cash upon Conversion (including partial cash settlement"). FASB ASC 470 clarifies that convertible debt instruments that may be settled in cash upon conversion (including partial cash settlement) are not addressed by FASB ASC 470-20-65-1 (paragraph 12 of APB Opinion No. 14, "Accounting for Convertible Debt and Debt Issued with Stock Purchase Warrants"). Additionally, FASB ASC 470 specifies that issuers of such instruments should separately account for the liability and equity components in a manner that will reflect the entity's nonconvertible debt borrowing rate when interest cost is recognized in subsequent periods.
The Company accounts for uncertain tax positions in accordance with FASB ASC 740-10, 30 and 270, "Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes." The application of income tax law is inherently complex. As such, the Company is required to make certain assumptions and judgments regarding its income tax positions and the likelihood whether such tax positions would be sustained if challenged. Interest and penalties related to uncertain tax provisions are recorded as a component of the provision for income taxes. Interpretations and guidance surrounding income tax laws and regulations change over time. As such, changes in the Company's assumptions and judgments can materially affect amounts recognized in the Company's consolidated balance sheets and statement of operations.
4. Balance Sheet Information:
Cash consisted of the following at December 31,
2012 2011 -------- -------- Checking account $ 80,973 $ 87,292 Savings accounts 7,636 8,435 Petty cash 87 1,716 -------- --------
Total Cash and cash equivalents $ 88,696 $ 97,443 ======== ========
Notes receivable - related party - As of December 31, 2010, the Company held a note receivable from the former President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company, with an original balance of $69,865. This note accrued interest at an annual rate of 8% from the effective date of January 15, 2010. Certain terms of this note receivable were amended and replaced on March 18, 2010, with the following terms: The Company was granted a security interest in and to 329,647 shares of Company common stock owned by the former President and CEO as collateral for the repayment of the note receivable and the note receivable is due and payable on November 1, 2010. The balance of the note, including accrued interest, at December 31, 2010 was $75,454. On January 3, 2011, the Company recorded the satisfaction for the full amount of principal and accrued interest due on the note receivable.
Inventory consisted of the following at December 31,
2012 2011 -------- -------- Finished units and components $125,715 $190,084 Packaging crates and materials 2,828 7,535 -------- --------
Total Inventory $128,543 $197,619 ======== ========
Prepaid expenses and other current assets consist of the following at December 31,
2012 2011 -------- -------- Purchase order prepaid deposits $ 17,687 $ 11,930 Prepaid expenses 11,278 4,160 Employee Advances 1,625 -- -------- --------
Total Prepayments and deposits $ 30,590 $ 16,090 ======== ========
Purchase order prepaid deposits represent the prepayment required under the agreements with several suppliers of our inventory components.
Property and equipment are stated at cost, net of accumulated depreciation. Expenditures for maintenance and repairs are expensed as incurred; additions, renewals and betterments are capitalized. Depreciation of property and equipment is provided using the straight-line method with estimated lives ranging from 3 to 5 years as presented in the following schedule.
Property and equipment consist of the following at December 31:
2012 2011 -------- -------- Furniture and equipment $ 15,384 $ 10,513 Vehicles 2,771 2,771 Tooling costs 24,683 24,683 Convention display 1,817 1,817 -------- -------- Property and equipment 44,655 39,784 -------- -------- Less Accumulated depreciation (35,907) (32,856) -------- --------
Total Property and equipment, net $ 8,748 $ 6,928 ======== ========
Depreciation expense for the annual periods ended December 31, 2012, and 2011 was $3,051, and $7,359, respectively, and was recorded as cost of goods sold. The use of the above property and equipment determines if the depreciation is recorded as cost of goods sold or as general and administrative expenses.
Intangible assets are stated at cost, net of accumulated amortization. Amortization of intangible assets is provided using the straight-line method with estimated lives of 20 years as follows at December 31,
2012 2011 -------- -------- Patent and patent applications $ 52,303 $ 30,593 Source Code 22,422 -- Less Accumulated amortization (7,299) (3,395) -------- --------
Total Intangible assets, net $ 67,426 $ 27,198 ======== ========
Amortization expense for the annual periods ended December 31, 2012, and 2011 was $3,904, and $1,663, respectively, was related to the Company's patent rights and was recorded as cost of goods sold.
Organizational Costs - The Company's startup and organizational expenses were expensed as legal and accounting fees under general and administrative expenses.
Advances payable-related party - On December 30, 2010, Terry Adams advanced the Company $200,000 for short term working capital purposes and in 2011, Mr. Adams advanced an additional $100,000 to the Company. George Adams advanced the company $90,000 during the first quarter of 2012. This was partially offset by a repayment of $50,000 to Terry Adams on February 1, 2012. Terry Adams advanced the company $90,000 during the second quarter of 2012. In addition, Fred Feck executed a note for $33,000 on June 30, 2012, in exchange for rent for the warehouse occupied by the Company. During the third quarter of 2012 George Adams advanced the Company $15,000 and Terry Adams advance the Company $25,000. During the fourth quarter of 2012 Terry Adams advanced the Company $60,000. At December 31, 2012, the Advances Payable - Related Party balance was $563,000. Related accrued interest of $30,877 is included in the Other Payables amount on the Company's financial statements.
On March 23, 2012, the company entered into a revolving line of credit with the Adams family, a related party, in the amount of up to $500,000. The line of credit is for a period of six months at an interest rate of prime plus 2%. In the event that the loan balance is not fully repaid at the end of the six month term, then the outstanding balance plus accrued interest may be convertible to common stock at the option of the creditors at the rate of $0.10 per share. The principle balance owed as of December 31, 2012 was $530,000. The Adams family has verbally extended the term of the line of credit on an indefinite basis month to month with interest accruing on the outstanding balance.
Other Payables - The Company had Other Payables consisting of the following at December 31,
Other Payables 2012 2011 -------- -------- Accrued warranty expense $ 37,350 $ 9,476 Accrued compensation 36,768 8,950 Litigated Accounts Payable 66,747 -- Accrued Sales Tax 2,714 -- -------- --------
Total Other payables $143,579 $ 18,426 ======== ========
Other Payables - Related Party 2012 2011 -------- -------- Royalty Fees - Related Party $ 50,044 $ 35,389 Accrued Compensation - Related Party 36,667 107,916 Accrued Interest - Related Party 30,877 8,508 -------- --------
Total Other Payables - Related Party $117,588 $151,813 ======== ========
Royalty Fees Payable - The Adams Agreement described in Note 1 above, granted Mr. Adams a royalty fee of $20.00 for each SunTracker One(TM) and SunTracker Two(TM) unit or any future units that are based on the patent rights we acquired from him. The maximum royalty fees payable under the Adams Agreement is $2,000,000 based on the sale of 100,000 units. At December 31, 2012 and 2011, accrued royalties totaled $50,044 and $35,389, respectively.
Deferred Revenue - Shipments that were staged and ready for shipment were recorded as deferred revenue. Upon shipment to customers, the sale will be recorded as revenue. Deferred Revenue totaled $94,278 at December 31, 2012 and $30,932 at December 31, 2011.
5. Stockholders' Equity:
Common stock:
The Company is authorized to issue up to 50,000,000 shares of common stock with a par value of $0.001, under terms and conditions established by the Board of Directors.
The Company had 15,066,569 issued and outstanding common stock shares as of December 31, 2012. Details of the issued and outstanding common stock shares are shown below.
Common stock shares issued as of December 31, 2012 are as follows:
Amount of Shares Description Issued ----------- ---------- Stock issued for acquisition of assets 3,618,182 Stock issued for legal services (founder's shares) 240,000 Stock issued for consulting services (founder's shares) 240,000 Stock issued as compensation (founder's shares) 1,242,502 Stock issued to private offering subscribers 7,177,178 Stock issued for compensation and services rendered 743,358 Stock issued for conversion of note payable 1,803,349 Stock issued for exercise of stock options 2,000 ----------
Total common stock shares issued 15,066,569 ==========
During the three month period ended March 31, 2011, a total of 56,000 shares of common stock at $.50 per share were issued, consisting of 6,000 shares from sales of our stock through a Private Placement Offering and 50,000 shares for engineering and promotional services rendered.
During the three month period ended June 30, 2011, a total of 669,000 shares of common stock were issued, consisting of 667,000 shares, at $.50 per share, from sales of our stock through a Private Placement Offering and 2,000 shares from the exercise of stock options at $.75 per share.
During the three month period ended September 30, 2011, a total of 278,360 shares Of common stock were issued at $.50 per share, from sales of our stock through a Private Placement Offering.
During the three month period ended December 31, 2011, a total of 30,000 shares of common stock were issued for marketing services rendered and valued at the aggregate amount of $15,000.
During the three month period ended March 31, 2012, a total of 21,500 shares of common stock were issued for services rendered and valued at the aggregate amount of $11,825.
During the three month period ended June 30, 2012, a total of 181,818 shares of common stock were issued, at $.55 per share, from the sales of our stock through a Private Placement Offering.
During the three month period ended September 30, 2012, a total of 400,000 shares of common stock and warrants were issued, at $.50 per share, from the sales of our stock and warrants through a Private Placement Offering. In addition, 18,182 shares of common stock were issued in exchange for the source code provided by one of the Company's engineers.
During the three month period ended December 31, 2012, a total of 122,502 shares of common stock and warrants were issued for services rendered, at $.55 per share.
Preferred stock:
The Company is authorized to issue 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock, par value $0.001 per share. Currently, we have 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock issued and outstanding. As part of the purchase contract for the acquisition of assets, we issued 1,000,000 shares of Series A Preferred Stock to the seller of those assets, Mr. George Adams, Sr. The Series A Preferred Stock has the following rights and references:
Voting Rights: As long as the holder of our Series A Preferred Stock owns all 1,000,000 shares of the Company's Series A Preferred Stock and at least 3,200,000 shares of the Company's common stock, such holder shall have the right to vote 51% of the total votes necessary for the election of directors and for any acquisition or merger transaction.
Redemption Rights: The Company will have the right to redeem shares of the Series A Preferred Stock by paying Mr. Adams $1.00 per share. Such redemption may occur any time the Company has money legally available for such redemption.
Shares Issued: 1,000,000 shares have been issued to George Adams, Sr. No other shares of preferred stock shall be issued by the Company that would grant the holder(s) equal or superior rights to the Series A Preferred Stock.
6. Stock Options and Warrants:
On August 31, 2012, the Company issued 400,000 warrants with an exercise price of $.50. These were the only warrants issued in 2012, making 400,000 warrants the total amount issued as of December 31, 2012.
In January 2010, we entered into a stock option agreement with an individual in recognition of his past activities in the development of the products manufactured by the Company. The individual has the option to purchase up to 75,900 shares of common stock at $.75 per share. The option expires the sooner of one year after October 19, 2010, the effective date of the Company's registration statement or five years from the date of the stock option agreement.
On December 30, 2010, the Company's Board of Directors approved and adopted the Company's 2010 Employee and Consultant Stock Incentive Plan ("Plan") and reserved a total of 800,000 shares of common stock for issuance pursuant to the Plan. The purpose of this Plan is to provide incentives to attract, retain and motivate eligible persons whose present and potential contributions are important to the success of the Company by offering them an opportunity to participate in the Company's future performance through awards of Options, Restricted Stock and Stock Bonuses.
On December 30, 2010, the Board of Directors granted a total of 605,000 options at an exercise price of $.425 per share, exercisable over five years from the date of grant. We entered into eight stock option agreements with five individuals in recognition of various services performed for the Company. The individuals have the option to purchase a certain amount of shares of common stock at $.425 per share. The options expire on December 15, 2015. Jeffrey S. Brain, the Company's President, Chief Executive Officer and Director, entered into four stock option agreements relating to assisting the Company with its registration process and becoming a publicly traded Company, entering into a certain contract with a major customer and for serving on the Company's board of directors. Mr. Brain was granted options to purchase an aggregate of 275,000 shares of common stock. Frederick Feck, the Company's Corporate Secretary and Director, entered into a stock option agreement for serving on the Company's board of directors and was granted options to purchase 100,000 shares of common stock. Jacqui Matsumoto, a Company employee, entered into a stock option agreement for significant contributions to the Company and was granted options to purchase 30,000 shares of common stock. David E. Wise, the Company's corporate securities counsel, entered into a stock option agreement for legal services to the Company and was granted options to purchase 100,000 shares of common stock. Terry Adams, a Company founder and investor, entered into a stock option agreement for significant contributions to the Company and was granted options to purchase 100,000 shares of common stock.
Stock options exercisable into an aggregate of 978,900 shares of the Company's common stock were outstanding on December 31, 2011, of which 580,900 were vested on the date granted and 100,000 are scheduled to vest during 2012. No options were exercised during the year ended December 31, 2010. The Black-Scholes option-pricing model was used to estimate the option fair values , in accordance with the provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 148, "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation -- Transition and Disclosure." This option-pricing model requires a number of assumptions, of which the most significant are, expected stock price volatility, the expected pre-vesting forfeiture rate and the expected option term (the amount of time from the grant date until the options are exercised or expire). Since the Company's stock is not yet trading nor does it have an extended history of stock prices or volatility, expected volatility and average contractual life variables were estimated utilizing a weighted average of comparable published volatilities and contractual lives based on industry comparables. Expected pre-vesting forfeitures were estimated based on expected employee turnover. The fair value of options granted during the year ended December 31, 2012, was estimated as of the grant date using the Black-Scholes option pricing model with the following assumptions: a dividend yield of zero percent, an expected volatility of between 70.1% and 71.0%, a risk-free interest rate of 0.89% and a remaining contractual life of between 1.0 and 5.0 years. The fair value of options granted during the year ended December 31, 2011 was estimated as of the grant date using the Black-Scholes option pricing model with the following assumptions: a dividend yield of zero percent, an expected volatility of between 70.5% and 71.5%, a risk-free interest rate of 0% and a remaining contractual life of between 1.0 and 5.0 years.
In April 2011, in consideration of the Adams agreeing to offer the Company advances up to $300,000, the Company agreed to grant the Adams 300,000 stock options at an exercise price of $.50 per option that will be exercisable over five years. The options will vest over one year at 75,000 options per quarter. In addition, 2,000 stock options were exercised at $.75 per option during April 2011.
On January 1, 2012, the Board of Directors granted a total of 400,000 options at an exercise price of $0.47 per share, exercisable over five years from the date of grant. We entered into stock option agreements with three individuals in recognition of serving on the Company's board during 2011. The individuals have the option to purchase shares of common stock at $0.47 per share, which expires on December 31, 2016. Jeffrey S. Brain, the Company's President, Chief Executive Officer and Director, Frederick Feck, the Company's Corporate Secretary and Director and Terry Adams, Company Director, were each granted options to purchase 100,000 shares of common stock. In addition, David E. Wise, the Company's corporate securities counsel, entered into a stock option agreement for legal services to be performed for the Company during 2012. Mr. Wise was granted options to purchase 100,000 shares of common stock. For services rendered, on May 1, 2012, Jarett Fenton was granted options to purchase 24,000 shares of common stock and on July 1, 2012, Eugene Daunis was granted options to purchase 50,000 shares of common stock.
The following table summarizes the activity of stock options for the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011:
Weighted Number of Average Shares Exercise Outstanding Price ----------- ----- Balance, December 31, 2010 680,900 $ 0.46 Options granted 300,000 0.50 Options exercised (2,000) 0.75 Options forfeited or expired -- -- ---------- ------- Balance, December 31, 2011 978,900 0.47 Options granted 374,000 0.47 Options exercised -- -- Options forfeited or expired -- -- ---------- -------
Balance, December 31, 2012 1,352,900 $ 0.46 ========== =======
The weighted average fair values of options granted during the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011 were $0.21 and $0.15 per option, respectively. The values recorded for the outstanding exercisable options at December 31, 2012 and 2011 were $123,031 and $34,440, respectively.
7. Commitments and Contingencies:
The Company, as of December 31, 2012 has no additional financial commitments that would represent long term commitments on behalf of the Company.
Operating Leases -- The Company has not entered into any long term leases. The Company is currently leasing approximately 3,500 square feet of warehouse space in Corona, California, on a verbal month to month basis from one of our Directors, Frederick Feck. Commencing October 1, 2009, the Company paid $3,000 per month for the Corona, California warehouse space. For business office space, the Company has chosen to share space with iCapital to reduce its administrative cost by sharing costs, avoiding setup costs for phones, internet, furnishings, etc as well as office staffing. Commencing May 1, 2009, the Company paid $3,000 per month for the office space which is located in Irvine, California on a verbal month to month lease. Commencing April 1, 2010, we began renting an executive suite in Corona, California for $150 a month on a month to month basis and terminated the arrangement and rental payments for the executive offices in Irvine, California.
In February 2010, we entered into an eighteen month services agreement with a construction data company regarding Smart BIM; the construction and maintenance of databases relating to customers, sales leads and marketing strategies. Before the first payment was made, SmartBim sold their BIM operation to a third party. We determined that the organizational changes that the contractor made in their operation made the contract non viable. We terminated the agreement on September, 20 2011 in favor of a one-time payment to the contractor of $2,660.
The Company, as of December 31, 2012 has no additional financial commitments that would represent long term commitments on behalf of the Company.
Capital Leases - The Company has not entered into any kind of capital leases for furnishings, equipment or for any other purposes.
Prepaid Inventory - Our agreements with several of our inventory component suppliers generally provide that between 50% and 60% of the purchase order price is due upon the placement of an order, with the remaining balance due upon completion and shipment of the order, normally within 30 days. Purchase order prepaid deposits are included in the balance sheet as Prepaid expenses and other
current assets. As of December 31, 2012, purchase order prepaid deposits totaled $17,687 with primarily four of our major suppliers.
8. Related Party Transactions:
As described in Note 7, above, the Company leases warehouse space from one of our directors, Frederick Feck.
In January 2010, we entered into a nonexclusive distributorship agreement with Chaparral Green Energy Solutions, LLC, an entity in which our securities attorney, David E. Wise, Esq., owns a 50% equity interest. This non-exclusive dealer agreement with the Company is to sell products in Texas and is on the same terms, conditions and pricing as other dealer agreements. Thus, Mr. Wise's company will not receive any beneficial or special treatment over our other dealers or distributors.
The terms and conditions of the dealer agreement with Chaparral Green Energy Solutions, LLC are the same as for the other dealer and distributorship agreements. Therefore, the agreement with Chaparral Green Energy Solutions, LLC does not contain preferential or more favorable terms or conditions than agreements with our other dealers or distributors.
In January 2010, we also entered into nonexclusive dealer agreements with both Green Tech Design-Build, Inc., an entity located in Salt lake City, Utah, and Eco-Smart, Inc., an entity located in Sarasota, Florida. In addition, we entered into an exclusive international distribution agreement with Zeev Shimon & Sons, Ltd., an entity located in Petah-Tikva, Israel.
During the first quarter of 2011, Terry Adams and George Adams, Sr. each advanced the Company $100,000 for short term working capital purposes, as represented by the advances payable-related parties amount of $200,000 at June 30, 2011. In December 2011, Terry Adams and George Adams, Sr. advanced the Company $50,000 each for a total of $100,000 for short term working capital purposes. The Adam's have agreed to advance the Company up to $300,000 at an interest rate of two percent over the prime interest rate. On April 1, 2011, in consideration of the Adams agreeing to offer the Company advances of up to $300,000, the Company agreed to grant the Adams 300,000 stock options at an exercise price of $.50 per option that will be exercisable over five years. The options will vest over one year at 75,000 options per quarter. In addition, 2,000 stock options were exercised at $.75 per option during April, 2011.
On January 1, 2012, the Board of Directors granted a total of 400,000 options at an exercise price of $0.47 per share, exercisable over five years from the date of grant. The Company entered into stock option agreements with three individuals in recognition of serving on the Company's board during 2011. The individuals have the option to purchase shares of common stock at $0.47 per share, which expires on December 31, 2016. Jeffrey S. Brain, the Company's President, Chief Executive Officer and Director, Frederick Feck, the Company's Corporate Secretary and Director and Terry Adams, Company Director, were each granted options to purchase 100,000 shares of common stock. In addition, David E. Wise, the Company's corporate securities counsel, entered into a stock option agreement for legal services to be performed for the Company during 2012. Mr. Wise was granted options to purchase 100,000 shares of common stock.
On June 25, 2012 the Board of Directors approved a compensation plan that would grant each Director 50,000 options for each year of service. The options accrue monthly and are issued quarterly with an exercise price of 85% of the stock value. The options expire five years after being issued. The Board of Directors compensation plan commenced May 1, 2012. The financial statements include options granted to the Board of Directors for May through September 2012 as of September 30, 2012 with an exercise price of $.4675 per share and expiring September 30, 2017. In addition, the Board granted 24,000 options to Jarett Fenton as a bonus with an exercise price of $.4675 on May 1, 2012. The options expire April 30, 2017.
9. Share Based Compensation
In January 2010, 352,941 common stock shares at $.25 per share, with an aggregate value of $88,235, were issued as compensation and for services rendered in order to satisfy the anti-dilution rights. The Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer of the Company were each due $30,000 in aggregate compensation resulting from $3,000 per month accrued for each of them from March through December 2009. In addition, the Chief Financial Officer was due additional compensation of $29,876 for the period from February 26, 2009 (inception) to December 31, 2009. Our board of directors granted anti-dilution rights to Jeffrey Brain, iCapital Finance, Inc. (a company owned by Randall Letcavage, our former Chief Executive Officer, and his business partner, Rosemary Nguyen), Randall Letcavage and David E. Wise, our securities counsel. These anti-dilution rights entitled Jeffrey Brain, iCapital Finance, Inc., Randall Letcavage and David E. Wise to acquire additional shares of our common stock at $.25 per share in order to maintain their original percentage ownership in the our common stock. The rights entitled the holders to acquire additional shares as a result of the private offering conducted by the Company. The anti-dilution rights agreement entitled the holders to acquire their additional shares prior to March 31, 2010, at the same share price of $.25 that subscribers were purchasing stock for in the private offering. The holders, other than iCapital Finance, exercised their rights during December 2009. iCapital Finance did not exercise their dilution rights which remained on the company balance sheet in the form of common stock payable in the amount of $17,647. In the fourth quarter of 2011, After appropriate consideration by management and counsel, the company has determined that these rights no longer exist and has consequently extinguished the debt, resulting in an associated gain of $17,647.
Starting May, 2012, shares were issued to the Board of Directors for their services and to Smokey Robinson for his services related to Marketing and Public Relations. Each of the six Board Members receives 50,000 common stock shares per year with the shares accrued monthly and issued quarterly. In addition, Smokey receives 50,000 shares for his marketing and public relation services. These are also accrued monthly and issued quarterly.
10. Income Taxes:
Deferred taxes are provided on a liability method whereby deferred tax assets are recognized for deductible temporary differences and operating loss and tax credit carry forwards and deferred tax liabilities are recognized for taxable temporary differences. Temporary differences are the differences between the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and their tax bases. Deferred tax assets are reduced by a valuation allowance when, in the opinion of management, it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are adjusted for the effects of changes in tax laws and rates on the date of enactment.
Net deferred tax liabilities consist of the following components as of December 31, 2012 and 2011:
2012 2011 ------------ ------------ Deferred tax assets NOL carryover $ 1,342,000 $ 941,200 Accrued expenses-related party 34,000 59,000 Research and Development credit 12,900 2,500 Depreciation (2,700) 800 Contribution carryforward 3,600 -- Allowance for Doubtful Accounts 9,800 -- Deferred tax liabilities -- -- Valuation allowance (1,399,600) (1,003,500) ------------ ------------
Net deferred tax asset $ -- $ -- ============ ============
The income tax provision differs from the amount of income tax determined by applying the U.S. federal income tax rate to pretax income from continuing operations for the years ended December 31, 2012, and 2011 due to the following:
2012 2011 ---------- ---------- Book Income $ (464,000) $ (361,500) Depreciation 200 1,400 Gain in extinguishment of debt -- 6,900 Accrued expenses-related party (29,800) 52,000 Stock and options for services and contributed rent 128,900 21,700 Meals & Entertainment (1,500) 200 Allowance for Doubtful Accounts 9,800 -- R&D Credit 6,300 -- Non-Deductible Expenses 2,800 -- Valuation allowance 347,300 279,300 ---------- ----------
$ -- $ -- ========== ==========
At December 31, 2012, the Company had net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $3,195,000 that may be offset against future taxable income from the year 2013 through 2032. No tax benefit has been reported in the December 31, 2012 consolidated financial statements, since the potential tax benefit is offset by a valuation allowance of the same amount.
Due to the change in ownership provisions of the Tax Reform Act of 1986, net operating loss carryforwards for Federal income tax reporting purposes are subject to annual limitations. Should a change in ownership occur, net operating loss carryforwards may be limited as to use in future years.
11. Legal Matters:
We have no legal matters pending against us. On August 15, 2011 we filed a collection action against Nature's Lighting for their failure to pay for product purchased from us. The amount owed to us is $39,000 plus legal fees and costs. On January 30, 2012 we were successful in obtaining a default judgment and now are proceeding to collect the balance owed to us.
12. Change in Officers and Directors:
On March 19, 2010, a majority of Company Directors resolved to accept Randall Letcavage's resignation as of March 18, 2010, appointed Jeffrey Brain to serve as the Company's Chief Executive Officer and President in addition to his existing positions of Chief Operating officer and Chief Financial Officer. In May 2012, the Board added Terry Adams, Larry Eisenberg, Richard Katz and William "Smokey" Robinson Jr. to the Board of Directors. Terry Adams was appointed by the Board to serve as the Chairman of the Board. At the June 25, 2012 Shareholder meeting all of the Board of Directors were elected to new terms. The Board thereafter confirmed the officers to be Terry Adams, as Chairman of the Board, Jeff Brain as CEO, President and Chief Operating Officer
13. Major Customers
Major customers are defined as those customers whose annual revenue is greater to or equal to 10% of annual revenue. Net sales for the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011 include sales to the following major customers, together with the receivables due from those customers:
Sales ----- Year Ended December 31, Customer 2012 2011 -------- ---- ---- Customer A $ -- $398,612 Customer B $ -- $173,829 Customer C $154,049 $ --
Accounts Receivable, as of -------------------------- December 31, Customer 2012 2011 -------- ---- ---- Customer A $ 47,310 $ 57,873 Customer B $ -- $ 45,807 Customer C $ -- $ --
14. Subsequent Events:
The Company has performed an evaluation of subsequent events pursuant to ASC 855 and is not aware of any subsequent events which would require recognition or disclosure in the financial statements other than as follows:
In January 2013, 33,334 shares of common stock were issued to Directors Eisenberg, Katz, Brain and Adams each, for a total of 133,336 shares for services rendered, at $.55 per share. In addition, George Adams converted $67,322 of his line of credit at the rate of $.25/share for a total of 269,288 shares of common stock.