Item 2. Properties.
The Underlying Properties
The Underlying Properties consist of the working interests owned by ECA and the Private Investors in the Marcellus Shale formation in Greene County, Pennsylvania arising under leases and farmout agreements related to properties from which the PDP Royalty Interest and the PUD Royalty Interest were conveyed. There are in excess of 100 potential drilling locations for the PUD Wells within the AMI. As of December 31, 2010 the total gas reserves attributable to the Trust interests were 102.4 Bcf. This amount includes 42.5 BCF of proved developed reserves and 59.9 BCF of proved undeveloped reserves. ECA is currently the operator of all of the wells subject to the PDP Royalty Interest. The reserves attributable to the Royalties include the reserves that are expected to be produced from the Marcellus Shale formation during the 20-year period in which the Trust owns the royalty interests as well as the residual interest in the reserves that the Trust will sell on or shortly following the Termination Date.
As of December 31, 2010, the Underlying Properties include 19 gross (19.5 net as calculated under the Development Agreement) productive gas wells which encompass approximately 1,520 gross (1,560 net as calculated under the Development Agreement) productive acres. Currently, the Underlying Properties include approximately 9,300 acres of which ECA owns substantially all of the working interests.
The Underlying PUD Properties
The underlying PUD properties consist of all of the working interests in proved undeveloped gas properties in the AMI held by ECA. The interests of ECA in the gas properties to which the underlying PUD properties relate consist of working interests of approximately 100%. The conveyance related to the PUD Royalty Interest, however, provides that the proceeds from the PUD Wells will be calculated on the basis that the underlying PUD Wells are only burdened by interests that in total would not exceed 12.5% of the revenues from such properties, regardless of whether the other interest owners are actually entitled to a greater percentage of revenues from such properties. The AMI is located in Greene County, Pennsylvania, which is in southwestern Pennsylvania and consists of approximately 121 square miles.
The PUD Royalty Interest entitles the Trust to receive an undivided 50% interest in the proceeds from the sale of future production of natural gas resulting from the drilling of the PUD Wells. As ECA drills the PUD Wells, the Trustee is required to release the Drilling Support Lien.
ECA has agreed not to drill and complete, and will not permit any other person within its control to drill and complete, any well in the Marcellus Shale formation on the lease acreage included within the AMI described above for its own account until such time as ECA has met its commitment to drill the PUD Wells. Upon the Trustee's complete release of the Drilling Support Lien, ECA will further agree not to drill and complete, and will not permit any other person within its control to drill and complete, any well in the Marcellus Shale formation on the lease acreage that will have a perforated segment that will be within 500 feet of any perforated interval of any PUD or Producing Well.
In the conveyance documents for the PUD Royalty Interest, ECA expressly excepted and reserved all right, title and interest in and to any well and appurtenant production facilities not expressly conveyed to the Trust. The PDP Royalty Interest is included within the AMI and those properties will remain subject to the terms and conditions of the PDP Royalty Interest conveyance documents.
The PUD Royalty Interest conveyances further provide that the Trust's PUD Royalty Interest will be applicable to any additional acreage leased or acquired by any other means by ECA within the AMI until the drilling obligation of ECA to the Trust is met. Subject to the terms of the PUD Royalty Interest, ECA, in its sole discretion, may add such additional acreage to the Trust, and may exchange acreage for other acreage in the AMI, provided the aggregate acreage attributable to additional leases and the exchange leases shall not exceed five percent of the acreage currently subject to the PUD Royalty Interest. No assurance can be given, however, that any development well will produce in commercial quantities or that the characteristics of any development well will match the characteristics of ECA's existing wells or ECA's historical drilling success rate. ECA operates all of the Producing Wells and has agreed to operate not less than 90% of the PUD Wells during the subordination period.
Natural Gas Reserves
Ryder Scott estimated natural gas reserves attributable to the Royalties as of December 31, 2010. Numerous uncertainties are inherent in estimating reserve volumes and values, and the estimates are subject to change as additional information becomes available. The reserves actually recovered and the timing of production of the reserves may vary significantly from the original estimates.
Proved reserves of the royalty interests. The following table, effective as of December 31, 2010, contains certain estimated proved reserves, estimated future net cash flows and the discounted present value thereof attributable to the Royalties, in each case derived from the reserve report. The reserve report was prepared by Ryder Scott in accordance with criteria established by the SEC. In accordance with the SEC's rules, the reserves presented below were determined using the twelve month unweighted arithmetic average of the first-day-of-the-month price for the period from January 1, 2010 through December 31, 2010, without giving effect to any derivative transactions, and were held constant for the life of the properties. This yielded a price for natural gas of $4.65 per Mcf. Proved reserve quantities attributable to the Royalties are calculated by multiplying the gross reserves less fuel usage and line loss for each property by the royalty interest assigned to the Trust in each property. The net revenues attributable to the Trust's reserves are net of the Trust's obligation to reimburse ECA for the post-production costs. The reserves and cash flows attributable to the Trust's interests include only the reserves attributable to the Underlying Properties that are expected to be produced within the 20-year period in which the Trust owns the royalty interest as well as the 50% residual interest in the reserves that the Trust will own on the Termination Date. A summary of the reserve report is included as Appendix A to this report.
(1)The present values of future net cash flows for the Royalties were determined using a discount rate of 10% per annum.
(2)Includes reserves currently behind pipe in wells which are in the process of being completed.
Information concerning historical changes in net proved reserves attributable to the Royalties, and the calculation of the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows related thereto, is contained in the unaudited supplemental information contained elsewhere in this report. The Trust has not filed reserve estimates covering the Royalties with any other federal authority or agency.
The Reserve Report
Technologies. The reserve report was prepared using decline curve analysis to determine the reserves of individual Producing Wells. After estimating the reserves of each proved developed well, it was determined that a reasonable level of certainty exists with respect to the reserves which can be expected from any individual undeveloped well in the field. The consistency of reserves attributable to the Producing Wells, which cover a wide area of the AMI, further supports proved undeveloped classification.
Also, a 3-D seismic survey was shot and interpreted across substantially all of the AMI and has been used to confirm the consistency of important reservoir properties throughout the AMI. Seismic interpretation has been used to support ECA's belief of a consistency of Marcellus Shale formation thickness across the AMI, which is further substantiated by electric log and mudlog data from wells drilled on the Underlying Properties and adjacent wells drilled by third-party operators. Also, ECA has recently begun using seismic analysis of structural features on the Underlying Properties to optimally place PUD Wells within the acreage. By observing faults and other structural features within the
acreage, ECA is able to place PUD Wells so that they will have the longest lateral length possible while staying in the Marcellus Shale formation by avoiding significant faults. The location of these faults also confirms the number of potential proved undeveloped locations on the acreage and indicates that the PUD locations will be able to be drilled without crossing significant faults or encountering structural features, such as steeply dipping beds near faults, which could limit lateral length. Electric logs and other geologic and engineering data gathered from proved developed wells and vertical Marcellus Shale wells ECA has previously drilled across the AMI further support the consistency of the Marcellus Shale reservoir throughout the AMI. Finally, ECA regularly trades geologic, engineering, and operations data with other operators in the area surrounding the AMI. This technical and production data further supports the consistency of the Marcellus Shale in and around the AMI.
While a number of PUD Wells within the Underlying Properties are not direct offsets of other producing wells, both ECA and Ryder Scott, as independent petroleum engineers, were reasonably certain that all of the undrilled wells could be classified as PUD Wells because of the consistency of the Marcellus Shale formation across the AMI. As noted above, 3-D seismic data has been used to target PUD Well placement so as to avoid encountering significant faults or structural features. Data from both ECA and offset operators with which ECA has exchanged technical data demonstrate a consistency in this resource play over an area much larger than the AMI. In addition, direct measurement from other producing wells has also been used to confirm consistency in reservoir properties such as total organic content, vitrinite reflectance, porosity, thickness, and stratigraphic conformity. Most importantly, production from other producing wells confirms that horizontal Marcellus Shale wells across the AMI have similar performance with respect to initial production, decline curve shape, and estimated ultimate recovery.
Internal Controls. Ryder Scott, the independent petroleum engineering consultant, estimated, in accordance with appropriate engineering, geologic, and evaluation principles and techniques that are in accordance with practices generally accepted in the petroleum industry, and definitions and guidelines established by the SEC, all of the proved reserve information in this report. These reserves estimation methods and techniques are widely taught in university petroleum curricula and throughout the industry's ongoing training programs. Although these appropriate engineering, geologic, and evaluation principles and techniques that are in accordance with practices generally accepted in the petroleum industry are based upon established scientific concepts, the application of such principles involves extensive judgment and is subject to changes in existing knowledge and technology, economic conditions and applicable statutory and regulatory provisions. These same industry wide applied techniques are used in determining our estimated reserve quantities. The technical persons responsible for preparing the reserves estimates presented herein meet the requirements regarding qualifications, independence, objectivity and confidentiality set forth in the Society of Petroleum Engineers' Standards Pertaining to the Estimating and Auditing of Oil and Gas Reserves Information. ECA's internal control over its reserve reporting process is designed to result in accurate and reliable estimates in compliance with applicable regulations and guidance. Internal reserve preparation is performed by staff reservoir engineers and geoscientists before review by the Senior Reservoir Engineer and finally the Vice President of Eastern Operations. These individuals consult regularly with Ryder Scott during the reserve estimation process to review properties, assumptions, and any new data available. Additionally, ECA's senior management reviewed and approved all Ryder Scott reserve reports contained herein.
ECA's reserves are first estimated by a Staff Reservoir Engineer before being reviewed by the Senior Reservoir Engineer. The Senior Reservoir Engineer has a Bachelor of Science in Petroleum Engineering. He has over 3 years of oil and gas industry experience in reservoir Engineering. During that time, he has focused on reserves estimates and project economics.
ECA's Vice President of Eastern Operations is the primary technical person responsible for overseeing the reserve reporting process. This individual has a Bachelor of Science degree in Chemical Engineering with Masters of Petroleum Engineering coursework along with a Master of Business
Administration degree. He has worked in drilling, completions, production, and reservoir engineering along with acquisitions during his career and is a member of the Society of Petroleum Engineers. He has over six years of experience in reserve evaluation.
Material Changes. Since the March 31, 2010 reserve report, ECA completed the six Producing Wells which were in the process of being completed and were noted in the March 31, 2010 reserves as "currently behind pipe in existing wells". Also during this time, ECA drilled and completed the first five PUD wells, which have since been classified as proved developed. Finally, ECA drilled three additional PUD Wells which were included in proved developed reserves as of December 31, 2010, and were completed but awaiting initial production.
Well Locations
ECA has over 100 locations within the AMI and may drill some of the PUD Wells on units that encompass land controlled by third-party operators in order to maximize recovery in the field and also maximize the lateral length of each PUD Well drilled. If ECA drills one or more PUD Wells in which it controls less than 100% working interest, it will be obligated to drill additional PUD Wells above the 52 planned for the Trust in order to make the total number of net (equivalent) PUD Wells equal 52, provided that ECA may be required to drill fewer gross development wells due to lateral length from any well or wells exceeding 2,500 feet. For instance, if ECA drilled one well in which it controlled 50% working interest, and it was drilled to a horizontal lateral length of 2,500 feet, this well would only count as one-half of a PUD Well. In order to compensate for this, ECA would be obligated to drill an additional PUD Well with a horizontal lateral length of 2,500 feet and a 50% working interest so that the Trust still received in total 52 equivalent wells.
Sale and Abandonment of Underlying Properties
ECA and any transferee will have the right to abandon its interest in any well or property comprising a portion of the Underlying Properties if, in its opinion, such well or property ceases to produce or is not capable of producing in commercially paying quantities. To reduce or eliminate the potential conflict of interest between ECA and the Trust in determining whether a well is capable of producing in commercially paying quantities, ECA is required under the applicable conveyance to act as a reasonably prudent operator in the AMI under the same or similar circumstances would act if it were acting with respect to its own properties, disregarding the existence of the royalty interests as a burden affecting such property.
After completion of its drilling obligation, ECA generally may sell all or a portion of its interests in the Underlying Properties, subject to and burdened by the Royalties, without the consent of the Trust unitholders. In addition, ECA may, without the consent of the Trust unitholders, require the Trust to release royalty interests with an aggregate value to the Trust not to exceed $5.0 million during any 12-month period. These releases will be made only in connection with a sale by ECA of the Underlying Properties and are conditioned upon the Trust receiving an amount equal to the fair value to the Trust of such royalty interests. ECA operates all of the Producing Wells and will operate not less than 90% of the PUD Wells during the subordination period. Any net sales proceeds paid to the Trust are distributable to Trust unitholders for the quarter in which they are received. ECA has not identified for sale any of the Underlying Properties.
Title to Properties
The Underlying Properties are subject to certain burdens that are described in more detail below. To the extent that these burdens and obligations affect ECA's rights to production and the value of production from the Underlying Properties, they have been taken into account in calculating the Trust's interests and in estimating the size and the value of the reserves attributable to the Royalties.
ECA acquired its interests in the Underlying Properties through a variety of means, including through the acquisition of oil and gas leases by ECA directly from the mineral owner, through assignments of oil and gas leases to ECA by the lessee who originally obtained the leases from the mineral owner, through farmout agreements that grant ECA the right to earn interests in the properties covered by such agreements by drilling wells, and through acquisitions of other oil and gas interests by ECA.
ECA's interests in the gas properties comprising the Underlying Properties are typically subject, in one degree or another, to one or more of the following:
•royalties and other burdens, express and implied, under gas leases;
•production payments and similar interests and other burdens created by ECA or its predecessors in title;
•a variety of contractual obligations arising under operating agreements, farmout agreements, production sales contracts and other agreements that may affect the properties or their titles;
•liens that arise in the normal course of operations, such as those for unpaid taxes, statutory liens securing unpaid suppliers and contractors and contractual liens under operating agreements that are not yet delinquent or, if delinquent, are being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings;
•pooling, unitization and communitization agreements, declarations and orders;
•easements, restrictions, rights-of-way and other matters that commonly affect property;
•conventional rights of reassignment that obligate ECA to reassign all or part of a property to a third party if ECA intends to release or abandon such property; and
•rights reserved to or vested in the appropriate governmental agency or authority to control or regulate the Underlying Properties and the royalty interests therein.
ECA believes that the burdens and obligations affecting the Underlying Properties and the royalty interests are conventional in the industry for similar properties. ECA also believes that the burdens and obligations do not, in the aggregate, materially interfere with the use of the Underlying Properties and will not materially adversely affect the value of the Royalties.
ECA believes that its title to the Underlying Properties, and the Trust's title to the Royalties, is good and defensible in accordance with standards generally accepted in the oil and gas industry, subject to such exceptions as are not so material as to detract substantially from the use or value of such properties or Royalties. Consistent with industry practice, ECA has not obtained a preliminary title review of the PUD Wells. Prior to drilling a PUD Well, ECA intends to obtain a preliminary title review to ensure there are no obvious defects in title to the well. Frequently, as a result of such examination, certain curative work must be done to correct defects in the marketability of title. The conveyance related to the PUD Royalty Interest obligates ECA to conduct a more thorough title examination of the drill site tract prior to drilling any of the PUD Wells. ECA will not be relieved of its obligation to drill a well if such title examination prior to drilling reveals a title defect preventing ECA from drilling in such drill site.
It is unclear under Pennsylvania law whether the Royalties would be treated as real property interests. Nevertheless, ECA has recorded the conveyances of the Royalties in the real property records of Pennsylvania in accordance with local recording acts. ECA has granted to the Trust the Royalty Interest Lien to provide protection to the Trust, in the event of a bankruptcy of ECA, against the risk that the Royalties were not considered real property interests.
Description of the Royalties
The Royalties were conveyed to the Trust by ECA by means of conveyance instruments that have been recorded in the appropriate real property records in Greene County, Pennsylvania where the gas properties to which the Underlying Properties relate are located. The PDP Royalty Interest burdens the existing working interests owned by ECA in the Producing Wells. ECA has an average working interest of approximately 93% in these wells.
The PUD Royalty Interest initially burdened 50% of all of the interests of ECA in the Marcellus Shale formation in the AMI. ECA's interests in the gas properties to which the PUD Wells relate consist of an average working interest of 100%. The conveyance related to the PUD Royalty Interest, however, provides that the proceeds from the PUD Wells will be calculated on the basis that the PUD Wells are only burdened by interests that in total would not exceed 12.5%. In the event that ECA's interest in any of the wells subject to the PUD Royalty Interest that are drilled is subject to burdens in excess of a 12.5%, such burdens will be fully allocated against ECA's retained interest in such well, the net effect of which is that the Trust will receive payments with respect to the PUD Royalty Interest as if the burdens effecting the PUD Wells were in total 12.5% (proportionately reduced).
Generally, the percentage of production proceeds to be received by the Trust with respect to a well will equal the product of (i) the percentage of proceeds to which the Trust is entitled under the terms of the conveyances (90% for the Producing Wells and 50% for the PUD Wells) multiplied by (ii) ECA's net revenue interest in the well. ECA on average owns an 81.53% net revenue interest in the Producing Wells. Therefore, the Trust is entitled to receive on average 73.37% of the proceeds of production from the Producing Wells. With respect to a PUD Well, the conveyance related to the PUD Royalty Interest provides that the proceeds from the PUD Wells will be calculated on the basis that the underlying PUD Wells are burdened only by interests that in total would not exceed 12.5% of the revenues from such properties, regardless of whether the royalty interest owners are actually entitled to a greater percentage of revenues from such properties. As the applicable net revenue interest of a well is calculated by multiplying ECA's percentage working interest in such well by the unburdened interest percentage (87.5%), assuming ECA owns a 100% working interest in a PUD Well, such well would have a minimum 87.5% net revenue interest. Accordingly, the Trust would be entitled to 43.75% of the production proceeds from such well.
Pursuant to the Development Agreement, ECA will satisfy its drilling obligation only when it has drilled 52 equivalent wells. The proved undeveloped reserves included in the reserve report represent the reserves assigned to undeveloped locations that ECA anticipates drilling. However, under the conveyances, ECA is obligated to act as a reasonably prudent operator in the AMI under the same or similar circumstances as it would if it were acting with respect to its own properties, disregarding the existence of the royalty interests as burdens affecting such properties. Accordingly, there may be situations where ECA will be obligated to drill on one or more of the over 100 potential drilling locations within the AMI, including the 52 drilling locations identified in the reserve report, that are not those identified locations underlying the reserve report.
Based on extensive geologic and engineering data from the Producing Wells and vertical Marcellus Shale wells in the AMI, as well as 3-D seismic testing within the region, ECA believes that the Marcellus Shale formation has demonstrated consistency in formation thickness and other important characteristics across the AMI. When combined with the fact that ECA is obligated to operate as a reasonably prudent operator with respect to the PUD Wells, ECA believes that a deviation from the 52 identified drilling locations underlying the reserve report would not occur absent a reasonable belief that (i) such deviation would not result in production at least equal to that of the location deviated from, and (ii) not materially reduce the anticipated reserves attributable to the 52 equivalent wells forming the PUD Wells. To the extent ECA's working interest in a PUD Well is less than 100%, the Trust's share of proceeds would be proportionately reduced. Pursuant to the Development Agreement,
however, ECA will only satisfy its drilling obligation when it has drilled 52 equivalent wells. Therefore, any reduction in production proceeds attributable to a PUD Well caused by ECA having less than a 100% working interest in the well will be offset by the requirement to drill additional wells. An equivalent PUD Well is calculated by multiplying the working interest held by ECA by the horizontal lateral length of the well relative to 2,500 feet. PUD Wells drilled horizontally in the Marcellus Shale formation with a horizontal lateral distance (measured from the midpoint of the curve to the end of the lateral) of less than 2,500 feet will count as a fractional well in proportion to total lateral length divided by 2,500 feet. In the event ECA commences drilling of a PUD Well but fails to drill beyond the mid-point of the curve, such well will not count as a fractional well. PUD Wells with a horizontal lateral distance of greater than 2,500 feet (subject to a maximum of 3,500 feet) will count as one well plus a fractional well equal to the length drilled in excess of 2,500 (up to 3,500 feet) feet divided by 2,500 feet. Accordingly, for example, if ECA drilled one well in which it has a 50% working interest, and such well was drilled to a horizontal lateral length of 2,500 feet, such well would count for purposes of the Development Agreement as only 0.50 PUD Wells. In order to compensate for this, ECA would be obligated to drill an additional 0.50 PUD Wells. Such additional 0.50 PUD Wells could be achieved, for example, by drilling an additional PUD Well with a horizontal lateral length of 3,000 feet (or 500 feet longer than the 2,500 foot base lateral length) in which ECA holds a 41.7% working interest, or by drilling an additional PUD Well with a horizontal lateral length of 2,000 feet (or 500 feet shorter than the 2,500 foot base lateral length) in which ECA holds a 62.5% working interest. ECA believes that longer laterals will produce more reserves both in the near term and ultimately. Consequently, longer lateral distances achieved should provide incremental benefit to the Trust. The maximum credit ECA can earn toward the 52 well requirement under the Development Agreement by drilling a single actual well is 1.4 wells, calculated as described above.
PDP Royalty Interest. The conveyances creating the PDP Royalty Interest entitle the Trust to receive an amount of cash for each calendar quarter equal to 90% of the proceeds (exclusive of any production or development costs but after deducting post-production costs and any applicable taxes) from the sale of estimated natural gas production attributable to the Producing Wells regardless of whether such amounts have actually been received by ECA from the purchases of the natural gas produced. Proceeds from the sale of natural gas production attributable to the Producing Wells in any calendar quarter means:
•amount calculated based on estimated production volumes attributable to the Producing Wells;
in each case, after deducting the Trust's proportionate share of:
•any taxes levied on the severance or production of the natural gas produced from the Producing Wells and any property taxes attributable to the natural gas production attributable to the Producing Wells; and
•post-production costs, which will generally consist of costs incurred to gather, compress, transport, process, treat, dehydrate and market the natural gas produced. Any charge payable to ECA for such post-production costs on its Greene County Gathering System will be limited to $0.52 per MMBtu of gas gathered until ECA has fulfilled its drilling obligation. Thereafter, ECA may increase this Post-Production Service Fee to the extent it is necessary to recover certain capital expenditures in ECA's Greene County Gathering System. Additionally, the Trust will be charged for the cost of fuel used in the compression process, including equivalent electricity charges in instances when electric compressors are used.
Proceeds payable to the Trust from the sale of natural gas production attributable to the Producing Wells in any calendar quarter will not be subject to any deductions for any expenses attributable to exploration, drilling, development, operating, maintenance or any other costs incident to the production of natural gas production attributable to the Producing Wells, including any costs to plug and abandon a Producing Well.
PUD Royalty Interest. The conveyance creating the PUD Royalty Interest entitles the Trust to receive an amount of cash for each calendar quarter equal to 50% of the proceeds (after deducting post-production costs and any applicable taxes) from the sale of estimated natural gas production attributable to the PUD Wells regardless of whether such amounts have actually been received by ECA from the purchase of the natural gas produced. Proceeds from the sale of natural gas production, if any, attributable to the PUD Wells in any calendar quarter means:
•for any calendar quarter commencing on or after April 1, 2010, the amount calculated based on estimated production volumes attributable to the PUD Wells:
in each case after deducting the Trust's proportionate share of:
•any taxes levied on the severance or production of the natural gas produced from the PUD Wells and any property taxes attributable to the gas produced from the PUD Wells; and
•post-production costs, which will generally consist of costs incurred to gather, compress, transport, process, treat, dehydrate and market the natural gas produced. Any charge payable to ECA for such post-production charges on its Greene County Gathering System will be limited to $0.52 per MMBtu of gas gathered until ECA has fulfilled its drilling obligation. Thereafter, ECA may increase this Post-Production Services Fee to the extent necessary to recover certain capital expenditures in ECA's Greene County Gathering System. Additionally, the Trust will be charged for the cost of fuel used in the compression process, including equivalent electricity charges in instances when electric compressors are used.
Proceeds, if any, payable to the Trust from the sale of natural gas production attributable to the PUD Wells in any calendar quarter:
•will be determined on the basis that ECA's working interest with respect to the PUD Wells is not subject to burdens (landowner's royalties and other similar interests) in excess of 12.5% of the proceeds from gas production attributable to ECA's interest; and
•will not be subject to any deductions for any expenses attributable to exploration, drilling, development, operating, maintenance or any other costs incident to the production of natural gas production attributable to the underlying PUD properties, including any costs to plug and abandon a well included in the underlying PUD properties.
Royalty Interest Lien
Under the laws of Pennsylvania, it is not clear that the Royalties conveyed by ECA to the Trust would be treated as real property interests. Therefore, ECA has granted to the Trust the Royalty Interest Lien to provide protection to the Trust, exercisable in the event of a bankruptcy of ECA, against the risk that the Royalties were not considered real property interests. More specifically, the Royalty Interest Lien is a lien in the Subject Interest and the Subject Gas, to the extent and only to the extent that such Subject Interest and Subject Gas pertains to Gas in, under and that may be produced, saved or sold from the Marcellus Shale formation from the wellbore of the Producing Wells and the PUD Wells, sufficient to cause the Trust to receive a volume of Trust Gas calculated in accordance with the provisions of the conveyances of the royalty interests. Capitalized terms used in the preceding sentence and not otherwise defined in this report shall have the following meanings:
"Gas" means natural gas and all other gaseous hydrocarbons, excluding condensate, butane, and other liquid and liquefiable components that are actually removed from the Gas stream by separation, processing, or other means.
"Subject Gas" means Gas from the Marcellus Shale formation from any Producing Well or PUD Well.
"Subject Interest" means ECA's undivided interests in the AMI, as lessee under Gas leases, as an owner of the Subject Gas (or the right to extract such Gas), or otherwise, by virtue of which undivided interests ECA has the right to conduct exploration and Gas production operations on the AMI.
"Trust Gas" means that percentage of Gas to which the Trust is entitled, calculated in accordance with the provisions of the conveyances of the Royalties.
The Royalty Interest Lien does not include ECA's retained interest in the PUD and Producing Wells and the AMI or other interest of ECA in the AMI, and ECA has the right to lien, mortgage, sell or otherwise encumber the ECA retained interest subject to the Royalty Interest Lien.
ECA has recorded the conveyances of the Royalties and a Mortgage/Fixture Filing in the real estate records of Greene County, Pennsylvania and has filed a corresponding UCC-1 Financing Statement in the Office of the Secretary of State of West Virginia and the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.
The conveyances also provide that if ECA's interest with respect to the PDP properties is greater than what was warranted to the Trust in the conveyances, ECA will have the right to offset against amounts owed to the Trust, the difference between what the Trust actually receives from PDP Royalty Interest and what the Trust should have received from the PDP Royalty Interest had ECA's interest been the amount warranted.
Additional Provisions
If a controversy arises as to the sales price of any production, then for purposes of determining gross proceeds:
•amounts withheld or placed in escrow by a purchaser are not considered to be received by the owner of the underlying property until actually collected;
•amounts received by the owner of the underlying property and promptly deposited with a nonaffiliated escrow agent will not be considered to have been received until disbursed to it by the escrow agent; and
•amounts received by the owner of the underlying property and not deposited with an escrow agent will be considered to have been received.
The Trustee is not obligated to return any cash received from the Royalties. However, any overpayments made to the Trust by ECA due to adjustments to prior calculations of proceeds or otherwise will reduce future amounts payable to the Trust until ECA recovers the overpayments.
The conveyances generally permit ECA to sell, without the consent or approval of the Trust unitholders, all or any part of its interest in the Underlying Properties, if the Underlying Properties are sold, subject to and burdened by the Royalties. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the conveyances provide that ECA may not sell any of the Underlying Properties subject to the PUD Royalty Interest until it has satisfied its obligation to drill PUD Wells pursuant to the terms of the Development Agreement. The Trust unitholders are not entitled to any proceeds of any sale of ECA's interest in the Underlying Properties that remains subject to and burdened by the Royalties. Following any such sale, the proceeds attributable to the transferred property will be calculated pursuant to the conveyances as described in this report, and paid by the purchaser or transferee to the Trust.
Subject to the terms of the conveyances, ECA may at its option at any time prior to the completion of its drilling obligation, cause the Trust to exchange leased acreage subject to the Royalties, free and clear of such Royalties, for other leased acreage within the AMI (as defined in the conveyances). Such leased acreage exchanged to the Trust shall then be subject to the Royalties as set forth in the conveyances.
Additionally, the conveyances provide that, in the event ECA acquires any additional leases in the AMI prior to the completion of its drilling obligation, ECA may at its option make such additional lease subject to the Royalties. In no event may any additional lease become subject to the Royalties, or any exchange of acreage be effected, unless ECA certifies to the Trust that, among other things, all of the aggregate acreage attributable to the additional leases and exchange leases shall not exceed five percent of the acreage subject to the Royalties.
ECA or any transferee of an Underlying Property will have the right to abandon any well or property if it reasonably believes the well or property ceases to produce or is not capable of producing in commercially paying quantities. In making such decisions, ECA or any transferee of an Underlying Property is required under the applicable conveyance to act as a reasonably prudent operator in the AMI under the same or similar circumstances would act if it were acting with respect to its own properties, disregarding the existence of the royalty interests as burdens affecting such property. Upon termination of the lease, that portion of the royalty interests relating to the abandoned property will be extinguished.
ECA may, without the consent of the Trust unitholders, require the Trust to release royalty interests with an aggregate value to the Trust up to $5.0 million during any twelve month period. These releases will be made only in connection with a sale by ECA of the Underlying Properties and are conditioned upon the Trust receiving an amount equal to the fair value to the Trust of such royalty interests.
ECA must maintain books and records sufficient to determine the amounts payable for the Royalties to the Trust. Quarterly and annually, ECA must deliver to the Trustee a statement of the computation of the proceeds for each computation period as well as quarterly drilling and production results.
Item 3.