ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
We own the land on which Greektown Casino (including the Expanded Complex) is located through Greektown LLC, except with respect to a portion of the Expanded Complex known as the St. Mary’s School Building which we lease from Allen Vigneron, Roman Catholic Archbishop of the Archdiocese of Detroit. We also own various parking lots and garages that we own through Greektown LLC, Contract Builders or Realty Equity. We believe that all of our current facilities are in good condition and are suitable and adequate for the purposes for which they are used.
In the past, we have also entered into non-cancelable operating leases, primarily for office and for warehouse space, equipment and vehicles; certain of these leases include escalation clauses relating to the Consumer Price Index, utilities, taxes and other operating expenses. However, the Company did not enter into any of these agreements for the year ended December 31, 2011.
We lease certain portions of our owned facilities to third parties under operating leases, primarily for retail use. Rental income under these leases for the year ended December 31, 2011 was $0.5 million.
ITEM 3, LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
As part of the bankruptcy reorganization process, the Company engaged Moelis & Company, LLC (“Moelis”) to act as investment banker. The Moelis engagement letter provides for a success fee if certain requirements are met. Moelis asserted an administrative claim for fees and expenses totaling approximately $12.9 million, of which approximately $3 million was paid prior to the effective date of the reorganization. The Company believes such amount substantially exceeds the amount to which Moelis is entitled under its engagement letter. The Company has filed an objection to Moelis’s administrative claim, and a hearing on that matter before the United States Bankruptcy Court for the Eastern District of Michigan is pending.
The Company requested a ruling from the Michigan Department of Treasury regarding certain potential tax liabilities under the Michigan Business Tax (principally related to the survival of certain Michigan tax attributes such as net operating loss carryforwards and the tax basis of assets) arising from the June 30, 2010 restructuring transactions. The Company failed to receive a favorable ruling. In response, the Company has asked the Bankruptcy Court to issue a determination as to these matters. A hearing on the Company’s request for a determination was held on March 21, 2011, at which time the Bankruptcy Court requested that the parties submit further briefing. Such briefing was submitted and the Bankruptcy Court has not yet ruled.
The Company is a defendant in various other pending litigations. In management’s opinion, the ultimate outcome of such litigation will not have a material adverse effect on the results of operations or the financial position of the Company.
ITEM 4. REMOVED AND RESERVED
PART II
ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT’S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES
Market Information
No established public trading market exists for the Company’s common equity. There are no current plans, proposals, arrangements or understandings with any person with regard to the development of a trading market in the Company’s equity.
Holders
As of December 31, 2011, the Company had one, zero, seventeen, three, one, and two holders of record of its Series A-1 Common Stock, Series A-2 Common Stock, Series A-1 Preferred Stock, Series A-2 Preferred Stock, Series A-1 Preferred Warrants, and Series A-2 Preferred Warrants, respectively.
Dividends
We have never paid a dividend and do not anticipate paying one in the foreseeable future. The Company may not pay any dividends unless such dividends are approved by, and issued in compliance with the regulations and restrictions imposed by the MGCB.
For information relating to Stock Based Compensation, see Part III, Item 12 - Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management.
For additional information relating to Common Stock, Preferred Stock, and Preferred Warrants, see Part III, Item 8 - Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.
ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
Not applicable.
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements, and the accompanying notes presented in Item 8 of this report. Except for historical information, the discussion in this section contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Although we believe that the expectations reflected in these forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot assure you that these expectations will prove to be correct. These forward-looking statements are subject to certain known and unknown risks and uncertainties, as well as assumptions that could cause actual results to differ materially from those reflected in these forward-looking statements. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements contained in this report, which reflect management’s opinions only as of the date hereof.
Background and Overview
Greektown Superholdings was incorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware on March 17, 2010. Greektown Superholdings was formed to hold, directly and indirectly through Greektown Sub, all outstanding membership interests of Greektown LLC, as of the Effective Date of its emergence from bankruptcy protection. For periods prior to the Effective Date, Greektown LLC is sometimes referred to herein as the “Predecessor.” Through Greektown LLC, we own and operate Greektown Casino which opened in November 2000 within the downtown area of the city of Detroit. In February 2009, Greektown Casino completed its Expanded Complex at a cost of approximately $336.3 million. Greektown Casino is one of only three commercial casinos licensed to operate in state of Michigan and our Expanded Complex offers a full range of gaming, dining and entertainment alternatives, including:
· approximately 100,000 square-feet of gaming space with 2,700 slot machines and 63 table games, including an approximately 12,500 square-foot salon dedicated to high-limit gaming and the largest live poker room in the Metro Detroit Gaming Market;
· approximately 2,810 attached and 1,750 unattached parking spaces, including over 600 parking spaces for valet parking services;
· 10,000 square feet of convention space;
· a 400-room hotel;
· four restaurants, including a 180-seat “International Buffet”;
· several food outlets on the gaming floor; and
· seven bars and three entertainment facilities.
Access to Greektown Casino is facilitated by a nearby off-ramp from Interstate 375 and six interstate highways passing through the downtown of the city of Detroit. We estimate that Greektown Casino attracts approximately 17,700 patrons per day on average, and we believe a significant number of these patrons make regular visits to our property. Our players club, known as “Club Greektown,” is a membership/loyalty program that attracts customers by offering incentives to frequent casino visitors. As of December 31, 2011, the Company had approximately 1.2 million people in our database for Club Greektown. We believe the gaming market in the Detroit area, which consists of Detroit Commercial Casinos; together with the commercial casino in Windsor, Ontario (the “Metro Detroit Gaming Market”) is primarily a “drive-to” gaming market, with over 95% of our patrons residing within 100 miles of Greektown Casino.
The following significant factors and trends should be considered in analyzing our operating performance:
Business Strategy: Our business strategy is designed to increase our market share and profitability through strengthening our relationship with current guests, attracting new customers, and improving access to our property.
We renovated substantial portions of the casino in 2011 to improve the quality of the gaming and entertainment experience. In particular, we reconfigured our table games area to drive greater excitement and traffic, and improve operational efficiencies. We also introduced two new casino bars, Asteria and The Fringe, which offer video poker as well as an expansive beverage assortment. Asteria also offers a flexible entertainment space and a quick-service food outlet. Numerous other improvements were made in 2011, including a revamped first floor promotions area, cage, and club booth, all designed to enhance the physical appeal of our property.
In 2012, our focus is on engaging a broader customer base through higher levels of service and a wider range of amenities. To that end, our renovation efforts will continue throughout the year, although with comparatively less impact on the gaming floor than in 2011. Furthermore, we began construction on an 850 space valet parking garage facility in early 2012. The facility is expected to open during the first quarter of 2013, subject to obtaining the required financing and regulatory approvals. This project will increase the convenience with which our guests can access our property, as well as expand the parking capacity in and around our facility.
Our strategy also improves our ability to address the current and future competitive environment, which includes the possibility of new land-based casinos as well as the introduction of Internet gaming.
Economic Downturn: Our business has been and may continue to be adversely affected by the economic downturn recently experienced in the United States, and more particularly in the Detroit metropolitan area, as we are highly dependent on discretionary spending by our patrons. Factors such as increased unemployment, population decline, the housing and credit market crises, perceived or actual decline in disposable consumer income and wealth, the recent global economic recession and changes in consumer confidence in the economy may continue to reduce customer demand for the leisure activities we offer and may continue to adversely affect our business. More specifically, the economic downturn has impacted the automotive industry in the United States as much as, if not more than, other similarly situated sectors of the U.S. economy. As many of the manufacturers of automobiles and automobile parts and components are based in city of Detroit or the Detroit metropolitan area, we believe that our geographic location may be susceptible to continuing volatility in the automotive industry. However, in 2011, the automotive industry, as well as the broader economy, has begun showing signs of improvement.
· Competition: As we face significant competition principally from two other casinos in the city of Detroit, MGM Detroit and MotorCity, as well as Caesars Windsor, which is located directly across the Detroit River from Detroit. MGM Detroit, MotorCity, and Caesars Windsor may each have greater name recognition and financial, marketing and other resources than we do, and all three casinos completed major renovations/expansion projects in the past several years that have the potential to greatly increase their respective market share of the Metro Detroit Gaming Market. The Metro Detroit Gaming Market experienced an overall gross gaming revenue increase in 2011 of approximately $46.5 million or 3.4%, as compared to 2010.
In addition, we compete with other gaming facilities throughout the state of Michigan and surrounding states as well as nationwide, including casinos located on Native American reservations and other land-based casinos. Twenty one Native American-owned casinos are currently operating in western, central and northern Michigan, the closest of which is 113 miles from Greektown.
We also compete, to some extent, with other forms of gaming on both a local and national level, including state of Michigan-sponsored lotteries, Internet gaming, on- and off-track wagering, card parlors, and charity casinos. The expansion of legalized gaming to new jurisdictions throughout the United States also has increased competition faced by us and will continue to do so in the future. Additionally, if gaming facilities in our markets were purchased by entities with more recognized brand names and capital, or if gaming were legalized in jurisdictions near our property where gaming currently is not permitted, we would face additional competition.
On November 3, 2009, a casino initiative passed in the state of Ohio authorizing casino-style gaming at four locations within the state: Cincinnati, Cleveland, Columbus and Toledo. We anticipate that they will compete with the Detroit Casinos, particularly the Toledo casino, which is in close proximity to the city of Detroit and southern Michigan and whose construction began in August 2010 with an expected opening date in the first half of 2012.
The Department of Justice (“DOJ”) under the current federal administration had originally expressed the view that the U.S. Wire Act of 1961 applied to all forms of Internet gambling, and therefore all Internet gambling was illegal under the existing law. However, the DOJ has since concluded that the Wire Act of 1961 is limited only to sports betting. The Unlawful Internet Gambling Enforcement Act (“UIGEA”) was passed into law in 2006. The UIGEA attacks the payment mechanisms used to place bets, and pay off winners, through the thousands of offshore online gambling sites currently in operation. The statute makes it illegal for banks, credit card companies or similar institutions to collect on a debt incurred through an online gambling site. However, the UIGEA did not update the federal Wire Act of 1961 to specifically apply to all forms of online gambling. Therefore, during the 111th Congress (2009-2010), several bills pertaining to Internet gambling were introduced. Additionally, in 2011 the Internet Gambling Prohibition, Poker Consumer Protection, and Strengthening UIGEA Act of 2011 (H.R. 2236) bill was introduced. The bill calls for the legalization and federal regulation of online poker. Should online poker or other forms of internet gambling become legal in the United States, it would not only increase the level of competition we face but also increase the number of gaming opportunities.
Business Seasonality: Our gaming operations are affected by the weather. We have experienced downturns in customer volume during the summer months and increases in volume during winter months, although we do experience lower volume during winter storms. These seasonal and adverse weather conditions in the Detroit metropolitan area may discourage potential customers from visiting us. We believe we have also experienced downturns in customer volume as a consequence of nearby road repairs and construction, which generally occur in the spring, summer and fall, as well as during various sporting or entertainment events simultaneously taking place within the downtown area of the city of Detroit.
Key Financial Statement Terms
Revenues
Our gross revenues are derived from casino, food, beverage, hotel, and other revenues. Our largest component of revenues is casino revenues, which represented approximately 89.9%, 90.1%, and 90.3% of our total gross revenues for the year ended December 31, 2011, six months ended December 31, 2010, and the six months ended June 30, 2010, respectively. Gross casino revenues are comprised of revenues from our slot and table games, which are calculated as the difference between the amount wagered and the amount paid to customers.
The club point redemption expenses associated with our “Club Greektown” membership/loyalty program are also reflected as a reduction of gross casino revenues. In accordance with the Revenue Recognition topic of the FASB ASC applicable to instances where consideration is given by a vendor to a customer, we expense the cash value of points earned by Club Greektown members and recognize a related liability for any unredeemed points.
The following table reflects the composition of gross casino revenues for the year ended December 31, 2011, six months ended December 31, 2010, and six months ended June 30, 2010 (in thousands).
Other principal components of our revenues are our food and beverage, and hotel revenue, each of which is affected by customer volume and price. The following table reflects food and beverage, and hotel revenues for the year ended December 31, 2011, six months ended December 31, 2010, and six months ended June 30, 2010 (in thousands).
Promotional Allowances
Our gross revenues are reduced by promotional allowances to arrive at net revenues. Promotional allowances consist of the retail value of food, beverage and other complimentary items furnished to customers without charge.
Direct Operating Expenses
Direct operating expenses are those that directly relate to our gaming, food and beverage, and hotel operations. The following table illustrates the composition of direct operating expenses and their relationships to net revenues for the year ended December 31, 2011, six months ended December 31, 2010, and six months ended June 30, 2010 (in thousands).
Casino expenses. Casino expenses consist of employee compensation (labor, taxes, and benefits), surveillance costs, gaming supplies, slot participation, casino promotions (including mailing and other ancillary costs), as well as on-site hosting of our casino customers.
Gaming taxes. Gaming taxes include gaming taxes paid to the state of Michigan, city of Detroit, and municipal service fees paid to the city of Detroit.
Food and beverage. Food and beverage expenses relate to labor, taxes, and benefits, cost of sales, and operating supplies.
Hotel. Hotel expenses consist primarily of employee compensation and related expenses, as well as facilities-related expenses, such as maintenance and utilities.
Depreciation and amortization. Depreciation and amortization expenses consist primarily of the depreciation expense related to our gaming buildings and improvements, our gaming equipment and furnishings, our non-gaming buildings and improvements, and our non-gaming office furniture and equipment.
Indirect Operating Expenses
Indirect operating expenses consist predominantly of general overhead expenses that support our overall business, including marketing, advertising and entertainment, non-hotel facilities expenses, and other general and administrative expenses. The following table illustrates the composition of indirect operating expenses and their relationships to net revenues for the year ended December 31, 2011, six months ended December 31, 2010, and six months ended June 30, 2010 (in thousands).
Marketing, advertising and entertainment. Marketing, advertising and entertainment expenses primarily reflect the costs of mass media advertising, including television, radio and billboards.
Facilities. Facility expenses consist of cleaning and maintaining our non-hotel properties, valet parking, the Private Branch Exchange (PBX) department and wardrobe department, the payroll and benefits to support these activities and casino utilities.
General and administrative. General and administrative expenses include the costs of insurance, property taxes, regulatory fees paid to support the MGCB, board management fees of the successor, bonuses paid under union contracts, leases associated with various parking lots, rent, professional fees, donations, and various employee costs relating to executives, security, compliance, finance, purchasing, human resources and information technology departments.
Other indirect operating expenses. Other indirect operating expenses are primarily costs associated with maintaining the various retail parking spaces and garages, including utilities and maintenance, related to rental income.
Reorganization Expenses
Reorganization expenses consist predominantly of gains from the settlement of liabilities subject to compromise net of fees paid to restructuring professionals, as well as other costs directly associated with the bankruptcy process. The following table illustrates the composition of reorganization expenses and the total net (loss) gain on reorganization items and fresh start accounting adjustments to net revenues for the year ended December 31, 2011, six months ended December 31, 2010, and six months ended June 30, 2010 (in thousands).
Other Expenses
Other expenses consist primarily of interest on our indebtedness, the amortization of deferred financing costs, and accretion of discounts on our senior notes. The following table illustrates the components of other expense and their relationships to net revenues for the year ended December 31, 2011, six months ended December 31, 2010, and six months ended June 30, 2010 (in thousands).
Provision for Income Taxes
The provision for income taxes reflects our current and deferred provisions, which are considered income taxes under the Income Taxes topic of the FASB ASC. The following table illustrates the components of the provision for income taxes and their relationships to net revenues for year ended December 31, 2011, six months ended December 31, 2010, and six months ended June 30, 2010 (in thousands).
Refer to Note 2- Summary of Significant Accounting Policies to the Consolidated Financial Statements and Note 10 “Income taxes” presented in Item 8 “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this report.
Results of Operations
Periods Ended December 31, 2011 Compared to December 31, 2010
Overview. The year ended December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010 are not directly comparable, as the Effective Date of the Plan of reorganization occurred on June 30, 2010, and the results presented for the six month period ended June 30, 2010 are of the Predecessor.
Net revenues. Net revenues for the year ended December 31, 2011, six months ended December 31, 2010, and six months ended June 30, 2010, were approximately $333.4 million, $164.7 million, and $172.9 million, respectively. Net revenues are impacted by the general economic condition of the region, the seasonality of our business, sporting and entertainment events simultaneously taking place within the downtown of the city of Detroit, short-term disruptions related to Casino renovations, and our ability to attract customers within the Detroit Commercial Market. Casino revenue represented 89.9%, 90.1%, and 90.3% of gross revenues for the year ended December 31, 2011, six months ended December 31, 2010, and six months ended June 30, 2010, respectively. Promotional allowances as a percentage of gross revenue were 13.7%, 11.7%, and 12.0% for the year ended December 31, 2011, six months ended December 31, 2010, and six months ended June 30, 2010, respectively, resulting from enhanced promotional offers to our patrons in order to gain market share in light of enhanced competitive conditions in the Detroit Commercial Market.
Direct operating expenses. Direct operating expenses as a percentage of net revenue were 66.1%, 68.3%, and 61.0% for the year ended December 31, 2011, six months ended December 31, 2010, and six months ended June 30, 2010, respectively. The following is a discussion of the principal drivers of trends in direct operating expenses:
· Casino expenses. Casino expenses as a percentage of net revenue were 24.1%, 26.0%, and 25.6% for the year ended December 31, 2011, six months ended December 31, 2010, and six months ended June 30, 2010, respectively. The decrease in casino expenses as a percentage of net revenue during the successor period of 2011, as compared to the 2010 periods, primarily relates to decreases in slot participation and progressive expenses, and other casino-related expenses.
· Gaming taxes. Gaming taxes as a percentage of net revenue were 22.5%, 21.9%, and 22.3% for the year ended December 31, 2011, six months ended December 31, 2010, and six months ended June 30, 2010, respectively. Gaming taxes as a percentage of gross casino revenue remained consistent at approximately 21.6% during the successor period of 2011, as compared to the periods of 2010.
· Food and beverage expenses. Food and beverage expenses as a percentage of net revenue were 5.6%, 5.4%, and 4.5% for the year ended December 31, 2011, six months ended December 31, 2010, and six months ended June 30, 2010, respectively. The increase in food and beverage expenses during the successor period of 2011 and six months ended December 31, 2010, as compared to the six month period ended June 30, 2010 was primarily due to increases in payroll compensation expenses, as union employees received a pay rate increase under the terms of the old collective bargaining agreements in the fourth quarter of 2010.
· Hotel expenses. Hotel expenses as a percentage of net revenue were 2.7%, 2.7% and 2.5% for the year ended December 31, 2011, six months ended December 31, 2010, and six months ended June 30, 2010, respectively. The increase in hotel expenses as a percentage of net revenue during the year ended December 31, 2011 and six months ended December 31, 2010, as compared to six months ended June 30, 2010 was primarily due to an increases in payroll compensation expenses, as union employees received a pay rate increase under the terms of the old collective bargaining agreements in the fourth quarter of 2010.
· Depreciation and amortization expense. Depreciation and amortization expense as a percentage of net revenue was 11.2%, 12.3%, and 6.1% for the year ended December 31, 2011, six months ended December 31, 2010, and six months ended June 30, 2010, respectively. The increase in depreciation and amortization expenses during the year ended December 31, 2011 and six months ended December 31, 2010, as compared to the six months ended June 30, 2010 was primarily related to the revaluation of property, buildings, and equipment and the recording of certain definite lived intangible assets (rated player relationships), as a result of the Company’s adoption of fresh start accounting upon emergence from bankruptcy on June 30, 2010.
Indirect operating expenses. Indirect operating expenses as a percentage of net revenue were 22.5%, 19.8%, and 20.5% for the year ended December 31, 2011, six months ended December 31, 2010, and six months ended June 30, 2010, respectively. The following is a discussion of the principal drivers of trends in indirect operating expenses:
· Marketing, advertising and entertainment. Marketing, advertising and entertainment expenses as a percentage of net revenue were 2.5%, 1.9%, and 2.4% for the ended December 31, 2011, six months ended December 31, 2010, and six months ended June 30, 2010, respectively. The increase during the year ended December 31, 2011, as compared to six months ended December 31, 2010 and six months ended June 30, 2010 was primarily related to increased customer outreach efforts.
· Facilities. Facilities expenses as a percentage of net revenue were 6.1%, 6.1%, and 5.6% for the year ended December 31, 2011, six months ended December 31, 2010, and six months ended June 30, 2010, respectively. The increase in facilities expenses as a percentage of net revenue during the 2011 and 2010 periods, as compared to the 2010 period was primarily related to an increase in payroll expense, as union employees received a pay rate increase under the terms of the old collective bargaining agreements in the fourth quarter of 2010, and an increase in repair and maintenance expense.
· General and administrative. General and administrative expenses as a percentage of net revenue were 13.8%, 11.7%, and 12.4% for the year ended December 31, 2011, six months ended December 31, 2010, and six months ended June 30, 2010, respectively. The increase in general and administrative expenses as a percentage of net revenue during year ended December 31, 2011, as compared to the 2010 periods, is primarily related to the Company being awarded a reduction of property taxes for prior periods for approximately $3.4 million during the six months ended December 31, 2010, thus reducing the general and administrative expense for that period. Additionally, the increase is related to expenses resulting from the DCC ratification bonuses, board fees, and professional fees (which include legal fees associated with legal proceedings, the land transaction with Wayne County, compliance and disclosure requirements arising from our status as a public registrant, as well as Michigan gaming laws, and labor agreement negotiations involving the Company and the DCC).
· Other. Other indirect operating remained relatively consistent during the year ended December 31, 2011, six months ended December 31, 2010, and six months ended June 30, 2010.
Net (loss) gain on Chapter 11 related reorganization items from fresh start adjustments. The decrease in Net gain on Chapter 11 related reorganization items from fresh start accounting adjustments during the year ended December 31, 2011 and six months ended December 31, 2010, as compared to the six months ended June 30, 2010, was primarily related to the $130.9 million discharge of liabilities subject to compromise and a $190.0 million revaluation of assets and liabilities, which were significant one time gains and were recorded within the predecessor period.
Other expenses. Other expenses as a percentage of net revenue were 17.1%, 17.4%, and 23.1% for the year ended December 31, 2011, six months ended December 31, 2010, and six months ended June 30, 2010, respectively. The following is a discussion of the principal drivers of trends in other expenses:
· Interest expense. Interest expense as a percentage of net revenue was 15.0%, 15.4%, and 21.7% for the year ended December 31, 2011, six months ended December 31, 2010, and six months ended June 30, 2010, respectively. Interest expense as a percentage of net revenue decreased during the year ended December 31, 2011 and six months ended December 31, 2010, as compared to the six months ended June 30, 2010. The decrease was primarily due to the Company’s reduction in the debt balance outstanding, in connection with the emergence from bankruptcy on June 30, 2010.
· Amortization of finance fees and accretion of discount on senior notes. Amortization of finance fees and accretion of discount on senior notes as a percentage of net revenue was 2.1%, 2.0%, and 1.2% for the year ended December 31, 2011, six months ended December 31, 2010, and six months ended June 30, 2010, respectively. The increase in amortization of finance fees and accretion of discount on senior notes during the year ended December 31, 2011 and six months ended December 31, 2010, as compared to the six months ended June 30, 2010 was primarily related to amortization of financing fees incurred in connection with the issuance of the Exit Financing and the accretion of original issuance discount in relation to the Senior Secured Notes Series A and B, due in 2015.
Provision for income taxes. Provision for income taxes as a percentage of net revenue was -1.4%, -3.2%, and -1.5% for the year ended December 31, 2011, six months ended December 31, 2010, and six months ended June 30, 2010, respectively. The decrease as a percentage of net revenue in the provision for income taxes during the year ended December 31, 2011, as compared to the six months ended December 31, 2010 and six months ended June 30, 2010, was primarily related to state of Michigan tax reform. The MBT was eliminated, effective January 1, 2012, and deferred taxes related to the MBT were adjusted in the second quarter of 2011.
Other
The DCC union which represents the majority of our employees ratified a four year labor agreement with the Company on October 24, 2011. The Ratified Agreement provides for the following: In the first year of the Ratified Agreement, a first lump sum ratification payment (“Payment”) of $2,500 and $2,000 will be made to full time and part time employees, respectively. The payments were paid in the fourth quarter of 2011. In the third year (after October 17, 2013) of the Ratified Agreement, a second payment of $1,000 and $800 will be made to full time and part time employees, respectively. The payments will be paid in the fourth quarter of 2013. In the fourth year of the Ratified Agreement (after October 17, 2014) full time and part time employees are to receive a 2% increase on their base wage or $0.30 cents per hour, whichever is greater.
Liquidity and Capital Resources
Overview
Our cash requirements are for working capital, obligations under the Development Agreement, gaming taxes, debt service, and the improvement of our facilities.
Cash and cash equivalents were $50.8 million as of December 31, 2011. The Company’s cash position was favorably impacted by the consummation of a land transaction with Wayne County in 2011 (the “Land Exchange”). The Company exchanged a 7.2 acre parcel of the land for a 1.1 acre parcel plus cash consideration. Net cash consideration received by the Company was approximately $10.7 million.
The Company’s only borrowings under the Revolving Loan were for approximately $14.0 million and occurred in the first quarter of 2011. The borrowings were used to fund operating expenses, including the semi-annual interest payment under the Senior Secured Notes of approximately $25.1 million. The borrowings were subsequently repaid with cash generated from operating activities during the first quarter of 2011. At December 31, 2011, the Company had $29.1 million of available borrowings under our Revolving Loan ($30.0 million of commitment less outstanding letters of credit of approximately $0.9 million).
The Company’s capital expenditures for the year ending December 31, 2011 were approximately $15.7 million, including spending related to the completion of numerous renovations, including the Super Pit table games area, The Fringe video poker and sports bar, the new first floor promotions area, cage, and club booth, the new Asteria bar/lounge, casino operations, information technology, new valet parking facility, and other facilities. For the year ending December 31, 2012, capital expenditures are projected to be approximately $44 million, including expenditures on our new valet parking facility, estimated to be approximately $26 million. The amount and nature of our projected 2012 capital expenditures are subject to obtaining the required financing and regulatory approvals.
Subsequent to year end, the Company entered into an agreement to purchase property at a cost of $1.7 million related to the valet parking garage facility.
At December 31, 2011 and 2010 the face amount of the outstanding debt was $385 million, due in 2015. During the year ended December 31, 2011, six months ended December 31, 2010, and six months ended June 30, 2010, interest expense was $50.2 million, $25.4 million, and $37.5 million, respectively. Upon emerging from bankruptcy on June 30, 2010, and based on the Plan, a series of restructuring transactions were executed, as such, the Company’s debt structure was amended, refer to Item 1 - “Business.”
Our cash flows for the year ended December 31, 2011, six months ended December 31, 2010, and six months June 30, 2010 consisted of the following (in thousands):
Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities. Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2011 decreased by approximately $12.2 million, as compared to the six months ended December 31, 2010. The decrease in operating cash flows was primarily due to a $10.0 million payment made in 2011 in relation to the unsecured distribution liability established in connection with emergence from bankruptcy, accrued expenses and other liabilities of $22.9 million (including interest payments made in relation to the Senior Secured Notes), and a state of Michigan gaming tax refund of $5.7 million received in 2010. The decrease was offset by the collection of a property tax refund receivable of $3.5 million, and a note receivable of $2.0 million in 2011.
Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2011 increased by approximately $51.3 million, as compared to the six months ended June 30, 2010. The increase in operating cash flows was primarily due to payments made for Chapter 11 reorganization costs of $14.6 million, payments for accrued paid-in-kind (“PIK”) interest of $27.8 million, and a settlement with the city of Detroit for $13.5 million in 2010.
Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities. Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities for the year ended December 31, 2011 increased by approximately $15.0 million, as compared to the six months ended December 31, 2010. The increase in investing activities was primarily due to the change in restricted cash of $5.0 million and proceeds from the disposition of real estate and property of $10.7 million in relation to the Land Exchange, partially offset by capital expenditures of $15.7 million in 2011.
Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities for the year ended December 31, 2011 increased by approximately $6.1 million, as compared to the six months ended June 30, 2010. The increase in investing activities was primarily due to the change in restricted cash of $5.0 million, and proceeds from the disposition of real estate and property of $10.7 million in relation to the Land Exchange, partially offset by capital expenditures of $15.7 million in 2011.
Net cash (used in) provided by financing activities. Net cash (used in) provided by financing activities for the year ended December 31, 2011 decreased by approximately $1.2 million, as compared to the six months ended December 31, 2010. In 2010, the Company paid approximately $1.3 million on notes of $1.0 million, and financing fees paid of $0.3 million. There were no significant financing activities in 2011.
Net cash (used in) provided by financing activities for the year ended December 31, 2011 decreased $24.7 million, as compared to the six months ended June 30, 2010. The decrease was primarily related to the reorganization of the Company’s capital structure on June 30, 2010, which resulted in a decrease of proceeds from borrowings on long-term notes payable of $362.6 million, proceeds from the issuance of stockholders equity of $196.0 million, offset by payments on long term debt of $516 million, payments on notes payable of $0.9 million, and financing fees paid of $16.6 million, which did not occur in the successor period.
Purchase Agreement; Indenture; Notes
On June 25, 2010, the Company entered into a purchase agreement (the “Purchase Agreement”), by and between the Company and Goldman, Sachs & Co. (the “Initial Purchaser”), pursuant to which the Company agreed to issue and sell, and the Initial Purchaser agreed to purchase, $280.2 million principal amount of its Series A 13% Senior Secured Notes due 2015 (the Series A Notes) and $104.8 million principal amount of its Series B 13% Senior Secured Notes due 2015 (the Series B Notes and, together with the Series A Notes, the “Notes”), which are guaranteed (the “Guarantees”) by substantially all of the Company’s domestic subsidiaries (the Guarantors and, together with the Company’s, the “Obligors”), which subsidiaries executed a joinder to the Purchase Agreement on June 30, 2010.
On the Effective Date, the Company consummated the issuance and sale of the Senior Secured Notes under the Purchase Agreement in a private placement to qualified institutional buyers in the United States in reliance on Rule 144A under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”), and outside the United States in reliance on Regulation S under the Securities Act.
The Senior Secured Notes were issued pursuant to an indenture, dated as of June 30, 2010 (the “Indenture”), among the Company, the Guarantors, and Wilmington Trust FSB, as trustee.
Maturity: The Senior Secured Notes mature on July 1, 2015, and bear interest at a rate of 13.0% per annum. Interest on the Senior Secured Notes is payable semi-annually on January 1 and July 1 of each year, beginning on January 1, 2011. Interest is computed on the basis of a 360-day year comprised of twelve 30-day months.
The Company paid approximately $18.3 million and $6.8 million in interest payments in relation to the Series A and Series B Notes, respectively on January 1, 2011. Additionally, the Company paid approximately $18.2 and $6.8 million in interest payments in relation to the Series A and Series B Notes, respectively on July 1, 2011. Furthermore, subsequent to year end the Company paid approximately $18.2 million and $6.8 million in interest payments in relation to the Series A and Series B Notes, respectively; refer to Item 8 - “Financial and Supplementary Data.”
Guarantees: The obligations of the Obligors under the Senior Secured Notes are fully and unconditionally guaranteed, jointly and severally, on a second-priority senior secured basis by all of the Company’s current and future domestic subsidiaries, subject to certain exceptions.
Security: The Senior Secured Notes and the related Guarantees are secured by a second-priority lien on (i) substantially all of the properties and assets of the Company and each Guarantor, whether now owned or hereafter acquired, except certain excluded assets and (ii) a pledge of all the capital stock of all the subsidiaries of the Company, subject to certain limitations (in each case subject to certain permitted prior liens and liens securing certain permitted priority lien debt, including borrowings under the Company’s revolving credit facility described below).
Optional Redemption: At any time prior to January 1, 2013, the Company may on any one or more occasions redeem all or a part of the Senior Secured Notes, upon not less than 30 nor more than 60 days’ notice, at a redemption price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the Senior Secured Notes redeemed, plus a specified premium as of, and accrued and unpaid interest and special interest, if any, to the date of redemption, subject to the rights of holders of Senior Secured Notes on the relevant record date to receive interest due on the relevant interest payment date. On or after January 1, 2013, the Company may redeem some or all of the Senior Secured Notes at any time at the redemption prices specified in the Indenture plus accrued and unpaid interest and special interest, if any, to the applicable redemption date.
Mandatory Redemption: The Senior Secured Notes are subject to mandatory disposition or redemption following certain determinations by applicable gaming regulatory authorities. The Senior Secured Notes are subject to mandatory redemption, at 103% of their principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest and special interest, if the Company has consolidated excess cash flow, as defined in the Indenture, for any fiscal year commencing with the fiscal year beginning on the date of the Indenture and ending December 31, 2011. No excess cash flow payments were required to be made by the Company for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011.
If the Company experiences certain change of control events, the Company must offer to repurchase the Senior Secured Notes at 101% of their principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest and special interest, if any, to the applicable repurchase date. If the Company sells assets or experiences certain events of loss under certain circumstances and does not use the proceeds for specified purposes, the Company must offer to repurchase the Senior Secured Notes at 100% of their principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest and special interest, if any, to the applicable repurchase date.
Covenants: The Indenture contains covenants limiting the ability of Greektown Superholdings and/or its direct and indirect subsidiaries to, among other things, (i) engage in businesses other than the operation of Greektown Casino; (ii) incur or guarantee additional indebtedness; (iii) create liens; (iv) make certain investments; (v) pay dividends on or make payments in respect of capital stock; (vi) consolidate or merge with other companies; (vii) sell certain assets; (viii) enter into transactions with affiliates; (ix) agree to negative pledge clauses and (x) enter into sales and leasebacks. Failure to comply with these covenants could result in a default under the Indenture unless Greektown Superholdings obtains a waiver of, or otherwise mitigates, the default.
Events of Default: The Indenture for the Senior Secured Notes contains events of default, including (i) failure to pay principal, interest, fees or other amounts when due; (ii) breach of any covenants which are not cured within a stated cure period; (iii) default under certain other indebtedness; (iv) becoming subject to certain judgments; (v) failure to keep liens or security interests valid; (vi) certain events of bankruptcy or insolvency; (vii) impairment of any collateral to the loans; (viii) ceasing to own the casino complex; or (ix) loss of gaming or certain other licenses, or the legal authority to conduct gaming activities. A default could result in an acceleration of the amounts outstanding under the Senior Secured Notes.
Revolving Credit Agreement
On the Effective Date, the Company entered into a Credit Agreement with Comerica Bank for the Revolving Loan. On July 6, 2011, the Company and Comerica Bank agreed to certain modifications to the Credit Agreement (as so amended, the “Credit Agreement”).
General: The Credit Agreement provides for the Revolving Loan, which expires on December 30, 2013. The Revolving Loan is a revolving credit facility in an aggregate principal amount of up to $30 million (including $5 million for the issuance of standby letters of credit). The maximum expiration of individual letters of credit is twelve months after the issuance thereof or, if earlier, the maturity of the Revolving Loan.
Security and Guarantees: The Revolving Loan is secured by a perfected first priority lien and security interest on all the assets of the Company and all its direct and indirect subsidiaries, excluding, among other things, the Company’s gaming license. Additionally, effective July 2011, a requirement for a 45 day annual revolver “clean up period” was added to the Credit Agreement during which the Company will be required to maintain a zero balance under the revolver for a period of 45 consecutive days.
Interest and Fees: Borrowings under the Revolving Loan initially bear interest at an annual rate of LIBOR plus 2.50%, or the higher of Comerica Bank’s prime reference rate and 3.25%. Upon the Trappers Mortgage Release (as defined below), the Revolving Loan will bear interest at an annual rate of LIBOR plus 1.75% (if the Leverage Ratio (as defined below) is less than 4 to 1) or 2.25% (if the Leverage Ratio is greater than or equal to 4 to 1) or at an annual rate of (a) the higher of (i) Comerica Bank’s prime reference rate and (ii) 2.50% minus (b) 0.50% (if the Leverage Ratio is greater than or equal to 4 to 1) or 1% (if the Leverage Ratio is less than 4 to 1). There is a facility fee of 0.50% per annum on the aggregate revolving credit commitment amount payable quarterly in arrears commencing on July 1, 2010 (in respect of the prior fiscal quarter or portion thereof), and on the first day of each fiscal quarter thereafter. There is also a non-refundable letter of credit fee of 3.50% per annum on the face amount of each letter of credit payable quarterly in advance.
“Leverage Ratio” means as of the last day of any fiscal quarter of the Company, the ratio of an amount equal to, on a consolidated basis, the sum of all of the funded debt of the Company and its subsidiaries as of such date, excluding all subordinated debt, to EBITDA (as defined below) for the four fiscal quarters then ending. Adjustments to the interest rate and the applicable letter of credit fee rate are implemented quarterly based on the Leverage Ratio.
Prepayment: The Revolving Loan requires mandatory prepayments in an amount equal to (i) 100% of the net proceeds of the permitted sale of assets (subject to certain exclusions and permitted reinvestments), (ii) 100% of the net proceeds of any recovery from insurance arising from an event of loss (subject to certain exclusions and permitted reinvestments), and (iii) 100% of the net proceeds for the issuance of any debt or equity securities (subject to certain exclusions). Except with respect to certain asset sales, mandatory prepayments do not reduce revolving credit commitments.
Certain Covenants: The Credit Agreement contains a number of covenants that, among other things, restrict, subject to certain exceptions and materiality thresholds, the ability of the Company and its subsidiaries to sell assets and property, incur additional indebtedness, create liens on assets, make investments, loans, guarantees or advances, make distributions, dividends or payments on account of, or purchase, redeem or otherwise acquire, any of the Company’s capital stock, prepay certain indebtedness, engage in acquisitions, mergers or consolidations, engage in transactions with affiliates, amend agreements governing the Company’s indebtedness, including the Senior Secured Notes, make capital expenditures, enter into negative pledges, change the fiscal year and change the Company’s or any subsidiary’s name, jurisdiction of incorporation, or the location at which any Collateral is stored. The Company has also agreed to complete the Trappers Mortgage Release by June 30, 2012.
In addition, the Credit Agreement contains financial covenants pursuant to which the Company must achieve specified minimum earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (“EBITDA”) levels during twelve month periods ending on applicable test dates, and as of each fiscal year end, a Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio of not less than 1.05 to 1 (on a trailing twelve month basis).
“Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio” means EBITDA divided by Fixed Charges.
“Fixed Charges” means for any period, the sum, without duplication, of (i) all cash Interest Expense paid or payable in respect of such period on the Funded Debt of Borrower and its Subsidiaries on a Consolidated basis, plus (ii) all installments of principal or other sums paid or due and payable during such period by Borrower or any of its Consolidated Subsidiaries with respect to Funded Debt (other than the Advances and the original principal payment made with respect to Permitted Refinancing Indebtedness), plus (iii) all Income Taxes paid or payable in cash during such period, plus (iv) all Restricted Payments paid or payable in cash in respect of such period by Borrower (other than dividends on Capital Stock of the Borrower that were accrued and not paid), plus (v) all unfinanced Capital Expenditures of Borrower and its Consolidated Subsidiaries for such period (except certain excluded Capital Expenditures), plus (vi) all capitalized rent and lease expense of Borrower and its Consolidated Subsidiaries for such period, all as determined in accordance with GAAP.
“EBITDA” means Net Income for the applicable period plus, without duplication and only to the extent deducted in determining Net Income, (i) depreciation and amortization expense for such period, (ii) Interest Expense, whether paid or accrued, for such period, (iii) all Income Taxes for such period, (iv) reasonable legal, accounting, consulting, advisory and other out-of-pocket expenses incurred in connection with on-going bankruptcy court proceedings related to the bankruptcy of Greektown Holdings, L.L.C., and (v) for any fiscal quarter ending on or before June 30, 2012, specified non-recurring expenses may be added back to EBITDA.
Event of Default: The Revolving Loan contains certain events of default, including failure to make required payments; breaches of covenants which are not cured within a stated cure period or any representations and warranties in any material adverse respect; defaults under certain other indebtedness; certain judgments against the Company for the payment of money; failure to keep any material provision of any loan document valid, binding and enforceable; a change of control; an event of bankruptcy or insolvency; loss of the Company’s gaming licenses to the extent such loss is reasonably likely to cause a material adverse effect; the Company becomes the subject of certain enforcement actions if such enforcement action has not been dismissed or terminated within 60 days after commencement; or the Company becomes prohibited from conducting gaming activities for a period of greater than thirty consecutive days. A default could result in, among other things, a termination of the revolving credit commitment and acceleration of amounts outstanding under the Revolving Loan.
Trappers Mortgage Release: A small parcel of real property underlying a portion of our casino operations (the “Trappers Parcel”) is encumbered by mortgages which secure indebtedness owed to Greektown LLC and third parties. While the Company believes that these third party liens are discharged pursuant to the terms of the Plan, the liens established by these mortgages were not removed from the title record or insured by the title company prior to the Effective Date. Historical subordination agreements from the third parties holding such mortgages exist whereby such parties have agreed not to exercise remedies until Casino has exercised such remedies under a mortgage in favor of Casino on the same parcel.
Further, the Company and its subsidiaries have agreed to collaterally assign the mortgage in favor of the Company as well as a mortgage under which a pre-bankruptcy affiliate of the Company is the borrower (but as to which the Company is also the beneficiary of a collateral assignment to secure the mortgage in favor of us) to the lenders under the Revolving Loan on a first-priority basis and to the holders of the Senior Secured Notes on a second-priority basis. However, if the subordination agreements and the collateral assignment of the mortgage in favor of the Company and under which the Company’s pre-bankruptcy affiliate is the borrower were determined not to be enforceable, such mortgages could be deemed to have a higher priority than the mortgage on such property that the Company is granting to holders of the notes. In the event that the holders of such mortgages are able to exercise their rights under such mortgages, they would be entitled, among other remedies, to foreclose such liens which could result in the Company’s loss of title to such property. The Company has covenanted to resolve the issue by June 30, 2012.
As of December 31, 2011, the Company had approximately $0.9 million of letters of credit outstanding.
FUTURE CASH FLOWS
Contractual Obligations and Commercial Commitments
As of December 31, 2011, the Company had the following contractual obligations and commercial commitments:
(1) With respect to principal amortization, Greektown Superholdings will be required to redeem the Senior Secured Notes in an amount equal to 50% of Consolidated Excess Cash Flow (defined in the definitive documentation as EBITDA less capital expenditures, less cash interest expense, less cash tax expense) for each fiscal year. All such Consolidated Excess Cash Flow redemption payments are to be made at 103% of principal being repaid. We did not include anticipated principal amortization based on Consolidated Excess Cash Flow in this schedule as these amounts are conditioned on Greektown Superholdings achieving future EBITDA figures that are not determinable at this time. Rather, all principal amortization for purposes of this calculation is assumed to take place upon expiration of the Senior Secured Notes five years from the Effective Date.
(2) For the purposes of this calculation, interest payments were calculated by applying an interest rate of 13%, which is the rate of the Senior Secured Notes.
(3) For purposes of this calculation, we have assumed that no amounts have been drawn down against the $30 million commitment amount and there is no amortization payments required with respect to the Revolving Loan. We did not include anticipated interest on the Revolving Loan in this schedule as interest payments are based on amounts outstanding under the Revolving Loan which may vary and, therefore, such interest payments are not determinable at this time.
(4) The Development Agreement requires us to pay the city of Detroit a daily fee in the amount of 1% of adjusted gross receipts, which will increase to 2% of adjusted gross receipts if our adjusted gross receipts exceed $400 million in any calendar year, beginning on the day such receipts are reached and continuing thereafter. We have not included these amounts in the table as the payments are conditioned on future adjusted gross receipts that are not determinable at this time. In addition, if and when the $400 million gross receipt number is satisfied, we will be required to pay a one-time fee of $4 million to the city of Detroit, which we did not include in the table above as we cannot determine whether we will exceed the $400 million in adjusted gross receipts for any particular year.
(5) We lease a portion of the Expanded Complex known as the St. Mary’s School Building. In accordance with the provisions of the Leases topic of the FASB ASC, we account for this lease as a capital lease. The amounts listed reflect the minimum contractual lease payments under the lease agreement.
(6) The DCC ratified a four year labor agreement with the Company on October 24, 2011. The Ratified Agreement provides for the following: In the first year of the Ratified Agreement, a first lump sum ratification payment (“Payment”) of $2,500 and $2,000 will be made to full time and part time employees, respectively. The payments were paid in the fourth quarter of 2011. In the third year (after October 17, 2013) of the Ratified Agreement, a second payment of $1,000 and $800 will be made to full time and part time employees, respectively. The payments will be paid in the fourth quarter of 2013.
The Company expects that cash flow from operations together with our unused borrowing capacity under the Revolving Credit Facility will be sufficient to meet our obligations and commitments.
Inflation
We believe that general inflation had no significant impact on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows during the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010. Absent changes in competitive and economic conditions in Detroit or specific events affecting the hotel and casino industry generally, we do not expect that inflation will have a significant impact on our operations in the future. Changes in specific prices, such as fuel and transportation prices, relative to the general rate of inflation may have a material adverse effect on the hotel and casino industry in general and, therefore, our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.
Critical Accounting Policies, Judgments and Estimates
Our discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations is based upon our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (“GAAP”). The preparation of these consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates, judgments and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and the related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates.
An accounting policy is considered to be critical if it requires an accounting estimate to be made based on assumptions about matters that are highly uncertain at the time the estimate is made, and if different estimates that reasonably could have been used, or changes in the accounting estimate that are reasonably likely to occur, could materially impact the consolidated financial statements. We believe that the following critical accounting policies reflect the more significant estimates and assumptions used in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements.
Management has discussed the development and selection of these critical accounting estimates with the Audit Committee of our Board. In addition, there are other items within our financial statements that require estimation, but are not deemed critical as defined above. Changes in estimates used in these and other items could have a material impact on our financial statements.
We believe our application of accounting policies, and the estimates inherently required by the policies, are reasonable. These accounting policies and estimates are constantly reevaluated and adjustments are made when facts and circumstances dictate a change. Refer to Note 2- Summary of Significant Accounting Policies to the Consolidated Financial Statements presented in Item 8 of this report.
Net Revenues
The Company recognizes as casino revenues the net win from gaming activities, which is the difference between gaming wins and losses. Revenues from food and beverage and hotel operations are recognized at the time of sale or upon the provision of service. In accordance with the Revenue Recognition topic of the FASB ASC applied to circumstances where consideration is given by a vendor to a customer, the retail value of food, beverage, and other complimentary items furnished to customers without charge is included in revenues and then deducted as promotional allowances to arrive at net revenues.
Allowance for Doubtful Casino Accounts Receivable
Our gaming receivables consist predominantly of gaming markers issued to casino patrons on the gaming floor. We maintain strict controls over the issuance of markers and the collection of outstanding markers from patrons who fail to pay within a timely manner. Our methods of collection include the mailing of statements and delinquency notices, personal contacts through independent collection agencies and civil litigation.
We record an allowance for doubtful casino accounts receivable that represents our best estimate of the amount of probable credit losses in our existing accounts receivable. We assess the amount of the allowance on a quarterly basis based on historical write-off experience and review of returned gaming markers, past-due balances and individual collection analysis. Account balances are charged off against the allowance after all reasonable means of collection have been exhausted and the potential for recovery is considered remote.
Impairment or Disposal of Long-lived Assets
The Company accounts for long-lived assets in accordance with the provisions of the Property, Plant, and Equipment topic of the FASB ASC. The Property, Plant, and Equipment topic of the FASB ASC requires that long-lived assets be reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. Recoverability of assets to be held and used is measured by a comparison of the carrying amount of an asset to future net cash flows expected to be generated by the asset. If the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its estimated undiscounted future cash flows, an impairment charge is recognized in the amount by which the carrying amount of the asset exceeds the fair value of the asset. Assets to be disposed of are reported at the lower of the carrying amount or fair value, less costs to sell. No events or changes in circumstances indicated that the carrying amount of the assets will not be recoverable. No impairment was recorded during the year ended December 31, 2011.
Goodwill and Intangible Assets
Goodwill represents the excess of reorganization value over fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed in fresh start accounting. In accordance with accounting guidance related to goodwill and other intangible assets, the Company tests for impairment of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets annually in the fourth quarter and in certain situations between those annual dates, if interim indicators of impairment arise. For the year ended December 31, 2011, no impairment was recorded, based on the Company’s annual impairment testing procedures.
Goodwill is tested for impairment using a discounted cash flow model based on the estimated future results of the Company, discounted using the market participant-based, weighted-average cost of capital, and market indicators of terminal year capitalization rates.
Indefinite-lived intangible assets are not subject to amortization but are tested for impairment annually in the fourth quarter, by comparing the estimated fair value of the indefinite-life intangible asset to the carrying values using a discounted cash flow approach. Intangible assets with a definite life are amortized over their useful life, which is the period over which the asset is expected to contribute directly or indirectly to future cash flows. Management periodically assesses the amortization period of intangible assets with definite lives based upon estimated future cash flows from related operations.
Inherent in the calculation of the fair value of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets are various estimates. Future cash flow estimates are, by their nature, subjective, and actual results may differ materially from the Company’s estimates.
If the Company’s ongoing estimates of future cash flows are not met, the Company may have to record impairment charges in future accounting periods.
The Company’s estimates of cash flows are based on the current regulatory, political, and economic climates; recent operating information; and forecasts of the properties where it conducts operations. These estimates could be negatively impacted by changes in federal, state, or local regulations; economic downturns; or other events affecting various forms of travel and access to the Company’s properties.
Financing Fees
The Company capitalizes certain financing costs in accordance with the Debt topic of the FASB ASC. Accordingly, we begin capitalizing finance costs when activities in relation to the procurement of financing begin, and cease capitalization when all financing activities are substantially complete. Financing fees are amortized using the effective interest rate method.
Stock-Based Compensation Expense
Stock-based compensation cost is estimated at the grant date based on the fair value of the award and is expensed ratably over the service period of the award. The Company did not record stock-based compensation expense for the six months ended June 30, 2010, as there was no stock-based compensation plan in place at that time, but recorded a stock-based compensation expense for the successor year ended December 31, 2011, and six months ended December 31, 2010. The Company accounts for its stock-based compensation in accordance with FASB ASC Topic 718.
The weighted-average fair value of the stock-based awards was calculated based on the Black- Scholes option pricing method. The weighted-average fair value was approximately $90 for the successor six months ended December 31, 2011. The assumptions used in calculating the fair value of stock-based awards represent our best estimates, but these estimates involve inherent uncertainties and the application of management judgment. As a result, if factors change and we use different assumptions, our stock-based compensation expense could be materially different in the future.
Contingencies
We accrue for contingent obligations, including legal costs, when the obligation is probable and the amount can be reasonably estimated. As facts concerning contingencies become known we reassess our position and make appropriate adjustments to the financial statements. Estimates that are particularly sensitive to future changes include those related to tax, legal, and other regulatory matters that are subject to change as events evolve and additional information becomes available. Refer to Note 12 - Commitments and Contingencies of the Consolidated Financial Statements as of December 31, 2011 as presented in Item 8 of this report.
Income Taxes
We use the asset and liability method to account for income taxes. Under this method, deferred income taxes are determined based on the differences between the tax basis of assets and liabilities and their reported amounts in the consolidated financial statements which will result in taxable or deductible amounts in future years and are measured using the currently enacted tax rates and laws. A valuation allowance is provided to reduce net deferred tax assets to the amount that, based on available evidence, is more likely than not to be realized.
Our estimate of the potential outcome for any uncertain tax issue is highly judgmental. We believe we have adequately provided for any reasonable and foreseeable outcome related to uncertain tax matters. We have recorded an estimated income tax contingency related to certain potential taxes that could be assessed in connection with the enactment of the Plan. The Company records potential penalties on uncertain positions. Once the Company has asserted a position, interest is recorded on uncertain tax positions subsequent to the passage of the filing deadline. Included in the tax contingency are accrued penalties and interest.
Recently adopted accounting pronouncements
The following are accounting standards adopted or issued recently that were evaluated for potential impact on the Company.
The Financial Accounting Standards Board (the “FASB”) issued Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) No. 2010-06, Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures (Topic 820): Improving Disclosures about Fair Value Measurements. The guidance clarifies and extends the disclosure requirements about recurring and nonrecurring fair value measurements. The Standard is effective for reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2009. The Company adopted ASU No. 2010-06 recently. The adoption of this Topic did not have a material impact on the consolidated financial statements.
The FASB issued ASU No. 2011-08, Testing Goodwill for Impairment (Topic 350) which allows companies the option to perform a qualitative assessment to determine whether it is more likely than not (a likelihood of more than 50 percent) that the fair value of its reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. However, if a company concludes otherwise, then it would proceed to the current two-step approach to the annual test. Entities are permitted to apply guidance for annual and interim impairment tests performed as of a date before September 15, 2011, provided financial statements for the most recent annual or interim period have not been issued. The adoption of this standard will not have an effect on the Company’s consolidated financial statements.
Pursuant to the guidance in the recently issued AICPA Audit and Accounting Gaming Guide, participation agreements entered into by gaming entities are typically considered to be operating leases. Accordingly, the income statement classification of the fees paid pursuant to these arrangements is required to be an expense rather than contra revenue. As a result for the year ended December 31, 2011, six months ended December 31, 2010, and six months ended June 30, 2010, the Company reclassified certain amounts paid under slot participation agreements from a reduction in casino revenue to casino expense.
The FASB issued ASU No. 2010-16, Entertainment-Casinos (Topic 924), Accruals for Casino Jackpot Liabilities. The guidance clarifies that an entity should not accrue jackpot liabilities (or portions thereof) before a jackpot is won if the entity can avoid paying that jackpot. Jackpots should be accrued and charged to revenue when an entity has the obligation to pay the jackpot. This guidance applies to both base jackpots and the incremental portion of progressive jackpots. The guidance is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning on or after December 15, 2010. The adoption of this standard did not have an effect on the Company’s consolidated financial statements.
ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK
Market risk is the risk of loss arising from adverse changes in market rates and prices, such as interest rates, foreign exchange and commodity prices. We do not believe we are subject to material risk from adverse changes in foreign exchange or commodity prices. We are subject to market risk from adverse changes in interest rates.
Borrowings under the Revolving Loan bear interest at a variable rate, as discussed in the “Liquidity and Capital Resources” section above. If interest rates were to increase, interest expense with respect to the Revolving Loan borrowings would increase; however, the extent of such increase cannot be determined at this time.
We do no enter into derivative contracts for trading or speculative purposes, but we may enter into derivatives, particularly interest rate swaps, to reduce interest rate exposure arising from our borrowings under the Revolving Loan.
ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
Contents
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
Audited Consolidated Financial Statements
Consolidated Balance Sheets
53-54
Consolidated Statements of Operations
Consolidated Statements of Shareholders’ Equity
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
The Board of Directors and Members of Greektown Superholdings, Inc.
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Greektown Superholdings, Inc. (Successor) as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, and the related consolidated statements of operations, shareholders’ equity, and cash flows for the year ended December 31, 2011, the six months ended December 31, 2010, and of Greektown Holdings, LLC (Predecessor) for the six months ended June 30, 2010. These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company’s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. We were not engaged to perform an audit of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting. Our audits included consideration of internal control over financial reporting as a basis for designing audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting. Accordingly, we express no such opinion. An audit also includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of Greektown Superholdings, Inc. (Successor) as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, and the consolidated results of its operations and its cash flows the year ended December 31, 2011, the six months ended December 31, 2010 (Successor), and of Greektown Holdings, LLC (Predecessor) for the six months ended June 30, 2010, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.
As discussed in Notes 1 and 3 to the consolidated financial statements, on January 22, 2010, the United States Bankruptcy Court for the Eastern District of Michigan entered an order confirming the plan of reorganization, which became effective on June 30, 2010. Accordingly, the accompanying consolidated financial statements have been prepared in conformity with Accounting Standards Codification 852-10, Reorganizations, for the Successor Company as a new entity with assets, liabilities and a capital structure having carrying amounts not comparable with prior periods.
/s/ Ernst & Young LLP
Detroit, Michigan
March 30, 2012
Greektown Superholdings, Inc.
Consolidated Balance Sheets
(In thousands, except share and per share data)
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements.
Greektown Superholdings, Inc.
Consolidated Balance Sheets
(In thousands, except share and per share data)
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements.
Greektown Superholdings, Inc.
Consolidated Statements of Operations
(In thousands, except share and per share data)
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements.
Greektown Superholdings, Inc.
Consolidated Statements of Shareholders’ Equity
(In thousands)
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements.
Greektown Superholdings, Inc.
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
(In Thousands)
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements.
Note 1. Organization, Background & Bankruptcy Consideration
Organization
Greektown Holdings, L.L.C. (“Greektown Holdings”) was formed in September 2005 as a limited liability company owned by Kewadin Greektown Casino, L.L.C. (“Kewadin Greektown”), which was 100% owned by the Sault Ste. Marie Tribe of Chippewa Indians (the “Tribe”) and Monroe Partners, L.L.C. (“Monroe”). Greektown Holdings owns Greektown Casino, L.L.C. (“Greektown LLC”), which is engaged in the operation of a hotel and casino gaming facility known as Greektown Casino Hotel (“Greektown Casino”) located in the downtown of the City of Detroit that opened November 10, 2000 under a license granted by the Michigan Gaming Control Board (“MGCB”) and a Development Agreement with the City of Detroit.
On May 29, 2008, Greektown Holdings, together with its direct and indirect subsidiaries and certain affiliates, filed voluntary petitions to reorganize their businesses under Chapter 11 of the United States Bankruptcy Code in the United States Bankruptcy Court for the Eastern District of Michigan. As contemplated by a plan of reorganization (the “Plan”) approved by the Bankruptcy Court, Greektown Superholdings, Inc. (“Greektown Superholdings,” and together with its subsidiaries “we,” “our,” “us,” “the Company,” or “Greektown,” unless the context otherwise required) was incorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware on March 17, 2010. The Plan was confirmed on January 22, 2010 and became effective on June 30, 2010 (the” Effective Date”). Since that date Greektown Superholdings and its wholly-owned subsidiary, Greektown Newco Sub, Inc. (the “Greektown Sub”), have held 50% of the outstanding membership interests of Greektown Holdings. Greektown Superholdings is a holding company that has no other operating assets. Through its direct and indirect ownership of Greektown Holdings, Greektown Superholdings owns and operates Greektown Casino. Greektown LLC also holds all the ownership interest in Contract Builders Corporation (“Contract Builders”) and Realty Equity Company, Inc. (“Realty Equity”), each of which owns real estate near Greektown Casino. The assets of Trappers GC Partners, LLC (“Trappers”) were transferred to Greektown Casino and Trappers has been dissolved pursuant to the Plan. Unless otherwise indicated or the context otherwise requires, the following discussion describes the business and operations of Greektown Superholdings after the Effective Date. Greektown Superholdings’ corporate headquarters are located at 555 East Lafayette, Detroit, Michigan 48226.
On the Effective Date, Greektown Superholdings issued $385 million in 13% Senior Secured Notes (the “Senior Secured Notes”) and entered into a $30 million revolving credit facility with Comerica Bank (the “Revolving Loan” and, together with the Senior Secured Notes, the “Exit Financing”). On the Effective Date, the proceeds of the Rights Offering, the proceeds of the direct purchase of Preferred Stock, and the proceeds from the sale of the Senior Secured Notes were used to pay all outstanding borrowings under our DIP financing facility (the “DIP Facility”), to repay the pre-petition secured claims, and to make other payments required upon exit from bankruptcy. The proceeds from the sale of the Senior Secured Notes remaining after the foregoing payments were made, as well as the Revolving Loan, were used to provide ongoing liquidity to conduct our operations.
Note 2. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies
Presentation and Basis of Accounting
The accompanying consolidated financial statements present the financial position of Greektown Supherholdings, Inc. and its wholly owned subsidiaries as the successor entity as of December 31, 2011 and 2010. The accompanying consolidated statements of operations and cash flows are included for the year ended December 31, 2011, and six months ended December 31, 2010, and the predecessor for the six months ended June 30, 2010.
Use of Estimates
The preparation of the consolidated financial statements in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles requires management of the Company to make estimates and assumptions relating to the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial statements, and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the period. Significant items subject to such estimates and assumptions include the carrying amount of property, building, and equipment, valuation allowances for receivables, tax obligations and certain other accrued liabilities. Actual results could differ from those estimates.
Casino Revenues
Greektown Casino recognizes as casino revenues the net win from gaming activities, which is the difference between gaming wins and losses. Revenues from food and beverage and hotel operations are recognized at the time of sale or upon the provision of service.
Promotional Allowances
The retail value of food, beverage, and other complimentary items furnished to customers without charge is included in revenues and then deducted as promotional allowances. The costs of providing such promotional allowances are included in casino expenses as follows (in thousands):
Cash and Cash Equivalents
The Company considers all highly liquid investment instruments with original maturities of three months or less to be cash equivalents.
Restricted Cash
The terms of the Litigation Trust required the Company to fund $10.0 million in four equal quarterly installments of $2.5 million commencing on September 30, 2010. The Company has fulfilled its obligation under the Litigation Trust and has transferred an aggregate of $10.0 million to the trustee as of December 31, 2011.
Certificates of Deposit
Certificates of deposit represent cash deposits with original maturities in excess of three months.
Note 2. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (continued)
Accounts and Notes Receivable and Allowance for Doubtful Accounts
Accounts receivable - gaming consist primarily of gaming markers issued to casino patrons on the gaming floor. A marker is a voucher for a specified amount of dollars negotiable solely within Greektown Casino. Markers are recorded at issued value and do not bear interest. The allowance for doubtful accounts is the Company’s best estimate of the amount of probable credit losses in the Company’s existing accounts receivable. The Company determines the allowance based on historical write-off experience and review of returned gaming markers, past-due balances, and individual collection analysis. Account balances are charged off against the allowance after all reasonable means of collection have been exhausted and the potential for recovery is considered remote. The Company does not have any off-balance-sheet credit exposure related to its customers.
The note receivable balance represented a balance owed from a patron, which was evidenced by an unsecured promissory note with a principal balance of $2.0 million as of December 31, 2010. The note was due on demand at an interest rate of 6% per annum. The Company had not recognized interest on the note based on its collectability analysis. The Company collected the amounts outstanding under the note receivable during the year ended December 31, 2011.
Inventories
Inventories, consisting of food and beverage items, are stated at the lower of cost or market. Cost is determined by the first-in, first-out method. As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, inventories totaled approximately $0.4 million.
Deposits
Deposits consist of a workman’s compensation insurance deposit for the permanent casino construction. Deposits totaled approximately $1.6 million as of December 31, 2011 and approximately $3.8 million as of December 31, 2010.
Property, Building, and Equipment
Property, building, and equipment are stated at cost and are depreciated using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the assets. Expenditures for repairs and maintenance are charged to expense as incurred and approximated $1.3 million, $0.5 million and $0.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2011, six months ended December 31, 2010, and six months ended June 30, 2010, respectively.
The Company adjusted property, building, and equipment to fair market value upon emerging from bankruptcy on June 30, 2010.
Financing Fees
The Company incurred certain financing costs in order to secure financing for its emergence from bankruptcy at June 30, 2010. These costs were capitalized and are being amortized over the term of the respective financing agreements.
Gross financing fees capitalized totaled $16.7 million and $16.5 million as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Net capitalized financing fees totaled $11.6 million and $14.9 million as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The amortization of these fees were $3.4 million, $1.7 million, and $2.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2011, six months ended December 31, 2010, and six months ended June 30, 2010, respectively.
Note 2. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (continued)
Goodwill and Intangible Assets
Goodwill represents the excess of reorganization value over fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed in fresh start accounting at June 30, 2010. In accordance with accounting guidance related to goodwill and other intangible assets, the Company tests for impairment of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets annually in the fourth quarter and in certain situations between those annual dates, if interim indicators of impairment arise. Goodwill was not impaired for the year ended December 31, 2011, as determined by Company’s fourth quarter goodwill testing procedures. Goodwill is tested for impairment using a discounted cash flow model based on the estimated future results of the Company, discounted using the market participant-based, weighted-average cost of capital, and market indicators of terminal year capitalization rates (see Note 6).
Indefinite-lived intangible assets are not subject to amortization but are tested for impairment annually in the fourth quarter, by comparing the estimated fair value of the indefinite-life intangible asset to the carrying values using a discounted cash flow approach. Indefinite-lived intangible assets were not impaired for the year ended December 31, 2011, as determined by Company’s fourth quarter testing procedures. Intangible assets with a definite life are amortized over their useful life, which is the period over which the asset is expected to contribute directly or indirectly to future cash flows. Management periodically assesses the amortization period of intangible assets with definite lives based upon estimated future cash flows from related operations and tests for impairment when indicators arise.
Inherent in the calculation of the fair value of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets are various estimates. Future cash flow estimates are, by their nature, subjective, and actual results may differ materially from the Company’s estimates. If the Company’s ongoing estimates of future cash flows are not met, the Company may have to record impairment charges in future accounting periods. The Company’s estimates of cash flows are based on the current regulatory, political, and economic climates; recent operating information; and forecasts of the properties where it conducts operations. These estimates could be negatively impacted by changes in federal, state, or local regulations; economic downturns; or other events affecting various forms of travel and access to the Company’s properties.
Stock-Based Compensation
Stock-based compensation awards are determined based on the grant date fair value of the award and are expensed ratably over the service period of the award. Total stock-based compensation expense recognized under all share-based arrangements for the year ended December 31, 2011 and six months ended December 31, 2010 was $0.6 million and $0.2 million, respectively. The Company did not record a stock-based compensation expense for the six months ended June 30, 2010, as there was no stock-based compensation plan in place at that time (See Note 13).
Earnings per Share
Basic loss per common share (“EPS”) is computed by dividing the net loss available to common shareholders by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding for the period. Diluted EPS reflects the potential dilution from securities that could share in the earnings of the Company. Anti-dilutive securities are excluded from the calculation of diluted EPS (See Note 14).
Reserve for Club Greektown
Greektown Casino sponsors a players club (“Club Greektown”) for its repeat customers. Members of the club earn points for playing the Company’s electronic video and table games.
Club Greektown members may redeem points for cash, and may also earn special coupons or awards. The Company estimates the cash value of points earned by club members and recognizes a related liability for any unredeemed points. The cash value of points earned, and reflected as a direct reduction in casino revenue totaled $6.6 million, $3.2 million, and $3.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2011, six months ended December 31, 2010, and six months ended June 30, 2010, respectively.
Note 2. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (continued)
Advertising Expense
The Company expenses costs associated with advertising and promotion as incurred. Advertising and promotion expenses were approximately $7.5 million, $2.8 million and $3.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2011, six months ended December 31, 2010, and six months ended June 30, 2010, respectively.
Income and Other Taxes
The provision for income taxes is computed using the asset and liability method, under which deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the expected future tax consequences of temporary differences between the financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities, and for operating losses and tax credit carryforwards. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using the currently enacted tax rates that apply to taxable income in effect for the years in which those tax assets are expected to be realized or settled. The Company records a valuation allowance to reduce deferred tax assets to the amount that is believed more likely than not to be realized.
The Company recorded income taxes for the Michigan Business Tax (“MBT”), which is considered an income tax under the provisions of the income taxes topic of the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”). The MBT had a gross receipts tax component and an income tax component for the year ended December 31, 2011, the six months ended December 31, 2010, and the six months ended June 30, 2010. Based on state of Michigan tax reform, the MBT has been eliminated effective January 1, 2012 and deferred taxes related to the MBT were adjusted in 2011. In lieu of the MBT, the state of Michigan has enacted a six percent corporate income tax. The Company did not record a state deferred income tax benefit, as a valuation allowance was recorded at the federal and state level for the entire deferred asset amount. The Company is in a full valuation allowance and has not recorded a benefit on its losses during the period ended December 31, 2011. The Company recognizes the tax benefit from an uncertain tax position only if it is more likely than not the tax position will be sustained on examination by the taxing authorities, based on the technical merits of the position. The tax benefits recognized in the financial statements from such positions are then measured based on the largest benefit that has a greater than 50% likelihood of being realized upon settlement.
The Company recognizes interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits within the income current tax expense.
Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets
The Company accounts for long-lived assets in accordance with the provisions of the Property, Plant, and Equipment topic of the FASB ASC, which requires that long-lived assets be reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. Recoverability of assets to be held and used is measured by a comparison of the carrying amount of an asset to future net undiscounted cash flows expected to be generated by the asset. If the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its estimated future cash flows, an impairment charge is recognized in the amount by which the carrying amount of the asset exceeds the fair value of the asset. Assets to be disposed of are reported at the lower of the carrying amount or fair value, less costs to sell. No events or changes in circumstances indicated that the carrying amount of the assets will not be recoverable. No impairment was recorded during the year ended December 31, 2011, six months ended December 31, 2010, and six months ended June 30, 2010 (See Note 5).
Fair Value of Financial Instruments
The carrying amount of cash and cash equivalents, certificates of deposit, accounts receivable, and accounts payable approximates fair value because of the short-term maturity of these instruments. As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, the gross fair value of the senior secured notes was approximately $399.4 million and $431.2 million, respectively as determined by the Company, using available market information. In addition, the fair value of the capital lease obligation approximates its carrying value, as determined by the Company, using available market information.
Note 2. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (continued)
Concentrations of Risk
As of December 31, 2011 and 2010 approximately 1,290, and 1,700, respectively, of the Company’s employees were covered by collective bargaining agreements, including a majority of the Company’s hourly staff. In October 2011, the Company entered into a four year agreement with Detroit Casino Council (“DCC”). The DCC union represents the majority of our employees. We consider our relationship with our employees and the labor unions to be good.
During the three months ended December 31, 2011, the Company paid $3.7 million in lump sum payments in lieu of compensation increases in accordance with the Ratification Agreement. At December 31, 2011, the Company had $3.4 million recorded as a prepaid asset for such payments.
During the year ended December 31, 2011 and 2010 approximately 95% of the Company’s patrons came from within a 100-mile radius of the Company’s Detroit, Michigan property.
Reclassification
Certain items in the 2010 financial statements have been reclassified to conform to the 2011 presentation.
Pursuant to the guidance in the recently issued AICPA Audit and Accounting Gaming Guide, participation agreements entered into by gaming entities are typically considered to be operating leases. Accordingly, the statement of operations classification of the fees paid pursuant to these arrangements is required to be an expense rather than contra revenue. As a result, for the six months ended December 31, 2010 and the six months ended June 30, 2010, the Company reclassified $3.7 million and $3.9 million, respectively, paid under slot participation agreements from a reduction in casino revenue to a casino expense.
Recently adopted accounting pronouncements
The following are accounting standards adopted or issued recently that were evaluated for potential impact on the Company.
The Financial Accounting Standards Board (the “FASB”) issued Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) No. 2010-06, Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures (Topic 820): Improving Disclosures about Fair Value Measurements. The guidance clarifies and extends the disclosure requirements about recurring and nonrecurring fair value measurements. The Standard is effective for reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2009. The Company recently adopted ASU No. 2010-06. The adoption of this Topic did not have a material impact on the consolidated financial statements.
The FASB issued ASU No. 2011-08, Testing Goodwill for Impairment (Topic 350) which allows companies the option to perform a qualitative assessment to determine whether it is more likely than not (a likelihood of more than 50 percent) that the fair value of its reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. However, if a company concludes otherwise, then it would proceed to the current two-step approach to the annual test. Entities are permitted to apply guidance for annual and interim impairment tests performed before September 15, 2011, provided that financial statements for the most recent annual or interim period have not been issued. The adoption of this standard did not have an effect on the Company’s consolidated financial statements.
The FASB issued ASU No. 2010-16, Entertainment-Casinos (Topic 924), Accruals for Casino Jackpot Liabilities. The guidance clarifies that an entity should not accrue jackpot liabilities (or portions thereof) before a jackpot is won if the entity can avoid paying that jackpot. Jackpots should be accrued and charged to revenue when an entity has the obligation to pay the jackpot. This guidance applies to both base jackpots and the incremental portion of progressive jackpots. The guidance is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning on or after December 15, 2010. The adoption of this standard did not have an effect on the Company’s consolidated financial statements.
Recent Accounting Pronouncements
A variety of proposed or otherwise potential accounting standards are currently under consideration by standard setting organizations and certain regulatory agencies. Because of the tentative and preliminary nature of such proposed standards, the Company has not yet determined the effect, if any, that the implementation of such proposed standards would have on its consolidated financial statements.
Note 3. Emergence from Chapter 11
Fresh Start Consolidated Balance Sheet
In accordance with the Reorganizations topic of the FASB ASC 852, the Company adopted fresh-start reporting upon the Effective Date. The Company was required to apply the provisions of fresh-start reporting to its financial statements because the reorganization value of the assets on the emerging entity immediately before the date of confirmation was less than the total of all post-petition liabilities and allowed claims, and the holders of the existing voting shares of the Predecessor’s common stock immediately before confirmation received less than 50 percent of the voting shares of the emerging entity. Fresh-start reporting is required on the date on which the plan of reorganization is confirmed by the Bankruptcy Court, but should not be applied until all material conditions to the Plan are satisfied. All material conditions to the Plan were satisfied on June 30, 2010, the Effective Date.
Fresh-start reporting generally requires resetting the historical net book value of assets and liabilities to fair value by allocating the entity’s enterprise value as set forth in the Plan to its assets and liabilities pursuant to accounting guidance related to business combinations as of the Effective Date. As set forth in the disclosure statement relating to the Plan that was confirmed by the Bankruptcy Court on December 4, 2009, the enterprise value was estimated to be in the range of $626.7 million to $696.2 million, with a mid-point estimate of $662.7 million, based on financial projections. The enterprise value was estimated using various valuation methods, including (i) a calculation of the present value of projected free cash flows and a terminal value, using a range of discount rates (the “Discounted Cash Flow Analysis”); (ii) a comparison of the financial data of the reorganized Debtors with comparable publicly traded gaming companies (the “Comparable Companies Analysis”); and (iii) an analysis of comparable valuations indicated by precedent mergers and acquisitions transactions in the gaming industry (the “Precedent Transactions Analysis”).
The enterprise value using the Discounted Cash Flow Analysis was determined using the Predecessor’s financial projections for the periods through 2013. The four year compounded annual growth rate used in the projections was 2.7%. These financial projections were provided in the Plan disclosure statement and included anticipated changes associated with the Company’s reorganization plans, general market conditions, as well as other pertinent economic factors. The discount rate applied was in the range of 11% which was calculated using a weighted average cost of capital analysis based on comparable statistics of the Company’s peer group. The present value of all cash flows after 2013 were calculated using terminal values which were calculated by applying exit multiples ranging from 7.0x to 8.0x the 2013 financial projections which was then discounted in the range of 11%. Exit multiples ranging from 7.0x to 8.0x were based upon comparable company EBITDA multiples of the Company’s peer group.
Based upon an evaluation of relevant factors used in determining the range of enterprise value, including an assessment of the Company’s expected future cash flow projections, the Company concluded that the midpoint enterprise value estimate of $662.7 million should be used for fresh start reporting purposes, as it most closely approximated fair value.
In accordance with fresh start reporting, at June 30, 2010, the Company’s enterprise value was allocated to existing assets using the measurement guidance provided in accounting guidance related to business combinations. In addition, liabilities, other than deferred taxes, were recorded at the present value of amounts estimated to be paid. Finally, the Predecessor’s accumulated deficit was eliminated and the Company’s new debt and equity were recorded at fair value in accordance with the Plan. Deferred taxes have been determined in accordance with accounting guidance related to income taxes.
Estimates of fair value represent the Company’s best estimates, which are based on industry data and trends and by reference to relevant market rates and transactions, and discounted cash flow valuation methods, among other factors. The determination of the fair value of assets and liabilities is subject to significant estimation and assumptions and there can be no assurance that the estimates, assumptions and values reflected in the valuations will be realized and actual results could vary materially.
Note 3. Emergence from Chapter 11 (continued)
Reorganization items and fresh start adjustments
Reorganization items and fresh start adjustments represent amounts incurred as a direct result of the Chapter 11 cases, the consummation of the Plan and the adoption of fresh start accounting, and were comprised of the following for the year ended December 31, 2011, six months ended December 31, 2010, and six months ended June 30, 2010 (in thousands):
Professional fees include financial advisory, consulting, tax, legal, real estate and valuation services, among other items, that are directly associated with the Chapter 11 reorganization process.
Note 4. Property Tax Refund Receivable
During the successor six months ended December 31, 2010, the Company and the city of Detroit entered into a settlement agreement to reduce the property tax basis and provide a retroactive reduction to the property tax basis resulting in a refund receivable for previously paid property taxes of approximately $3.5 million. The Company received full payment from the city of Detroit in 2011.
Note 5. Property, Building, and Equipment
Property, building, and equipment and related depreciable lives as of December 31, 2011 and 2010 were as follows (in thousands):
Depreciation expense includes the amortization related to the asset under capital lease obligation. Depreciation expense was $23.5 million, $13.3 million, $10.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2011 six months ended December 31, 2010, and six months ended June 30, 2010, respectively.
Note 6. Goodwill & Intangible Assets
Goodwill represents the excess of the reorganization value of the Company over the fair value of tangible and identified intangible net assets upon emergence from bankruptcy at June 30, 2010 The Company recorded goodwill of $110.3 million upon the application of fresh start reporting.
Other identifiable intangible assets consist of the following (in thousands):
Amortization expense related to the rated player relationships intangible asset for the year ended December 31, 2011 and six months ended December 31, 2010 was approximately $13.8 million and $6.9 million, respectively. Annual amortization expense for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2013 and 2014, is estimated to be approximately $13.8 million for each of the respective years, and approximately $6.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2015.
Upon the Effective Date, in connection with fresh start reporting, the Company recognized Greektown Casino’s trade names, rated player relationships and casino development rights under the Development Agreement at estimated fair value as set forth in the table above. Intangible assets related to Greektown Casino were valued by valuation professionals who used income and cost based methods, as appropriate. The Greektown trade name was valued based on the relief from royalty method, which is a function of projected revenue, the royalty rate that would hypothetically be charged by a licensor of an asset to an unrelated licensee and a discount rate.
The royalty rate was based on factors such as age, market competition, absolute and relative profitability, market share and prevailing rates from similar assets to reach a 1% royalty rate. The discount rate applied was 12.5%, based on the weighted average cost of capital of the properties benefiting from the trade name.
Note 6. Goodwill & Intangible Assets (continued)
Casino development rights were valued based on the Greenfield method, which is a function of the cost to build a new casino operation , taking into consideration the build out period, and projected cash flows attributable to the casino once operational and adjusted to present value using a market participant discount rate.
The Company complies with the provisions of the Intangible Assets - Goodwill and Other topic of the FASB ASC, which provides guidance on how identifiable intangible assets should be accounted for upon acquisition and subsequent to their initial financial statement recognition. This topic requires that identifiable intangible assets with indefinite lives be capitalized and tested for impairment at least annually by comparing the fair values of those assets with their recorded amounts. Accordingly, the Company performs its impairment test in the fourth quarter of each year by comparing the assets’ estimated fair value to the related carrying value as of that date. The assets were not impaired for the year ended December 31, 2011, as determined by Company’s fourth quarter testing procedures.
Note 7. Debt
Exit Facility
Purchase Agreement; Indenture; Notes
On June 25, 2010, the Company entered into a purchase agreement (the “Purchase Agreement”), by and between the Company and Goldman, Sachs & Co. (the “Initial Purchaser”), pursuant to which the Company agreed to issue and sell, and the Initial Purchaser agreed to purchase, $280.2 million principal amount of its Series A 13% Senior Secured Notes due 2015 (the Series A Notes) and $104.8 million principal amount of its Series B 13% Senior Secured Notes due 2015 (the Series B Notes and, together with the Series A Notes, the “Notes”), which are guaranteed (the “Guarantees”) by substantially all of the Company’s domestic subsidiaries (the Guarantors and, together with the Company’s, the “Obligors”), which subsidiaries executed a joinder to the Purchase Agreement on June 30, 2010.
On the Effective Date, the Company consummated the issuance and sale of the Senior Secured Notes under the Purchase Agreement in a private placement to qualified institutional buyers in the United States in reliance on Rule 144A under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”), and outside the United States in reliance on Regulation S under the Securities Act.
The Senior Secured Notes were issued pursuant to an indenture, dated as of June 30, 2010 (the “Indenture”), among the Company, the Guarantors, and Wilmington Trust FSB, as trustee.
Maturity: The Senior Secured Notes mature on July 1, 2015, and bear interest at a rate of 13.0% per annum. Interest on the New Senior Secured Notes is payable semi-annually on January 1 and July 1 of each year, beginning on January 1, 2011. Interest is computed on the basis of a 360-day year comprised of twelve 30-day months.
Guarantees: The obligations of the Obligors under the Senior Secured Notes are fully and unconditionally guaranteed, jointly and severally, on a second-priority senior secured basis by all of the Company’s current and future domestic subsidiaries, subject to certain exceptions.
Security: The Senior Secured Notes and the related Guarantees are secured by a second-priority lien on (i) substantially all of the properties and assets of the Company and each Guarantor, whether now owned or hereafter acquired, except certain excluded assets and (ii) a pledge of all the capital stock of all the subsidiaries of the Company, subject to certain limitations (in each case subject to certain permitted prior liens and liens securing certain permitted priority lien debt, including borrowings under the Company’s revolving credit facility described below).
Optional Redemption: At any time prior to January 1, 2013, the Company may on any one or more occasions redeem all or a part of the Senior Secured Notes, upon not less than 30 or more than 60 days’ notice, at a redemption price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the Senior Secured Notes redeemed, plus a specified premium as of, and accrued and unpaid interest and special interest, if any, to the date of redemption, subject to the rights of holders of Senior Secured Notes on the relevant record date to receive interest due on the relevant interest payment date. On or after January 1, 2013, the Company may redeem some or all of the Senior Secured Notes at any time at the redemption prices specified in the Indenture plus accrued and unpaid interest and special interest, if any, to the applicable redemption date.
Mandatory Redemption: The Senior Secured Notes are subject to mandatory disposition or redemption following certain determinations by applicable gaming regulatory authorities.
Note 7. Debt (continued)
The Senior Secured Notes are subject to mandatory redemption, at 103% of their principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest and special interest, if the Company has consolidated excess cash flow, as defined in the Indenture, for any fiscal year commencing with the fiscal year beginning on the date of the Indenture and ending December 31, 2011. No excess cash flow payments were required to be made by the Company or are due as of December 31, 2011.
If the Company experiences certain change of control events, the Company must offer to repurchase the Senior Secured Notes at 101% of their principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest and special interest, if any, to the applicable repurchase date. If the Company sells assets or experiences certain events of loss under certain circumstances and does not use the proceeds for specified purposes, the Company must offer to repurchase the Senior Secured Notes at 100% of their principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest and special interest, if any, to the applicable repurchase date.
Covenants: The Indenture contains covenants limiting the ability of Greektown Superholdings and/or it’s direct and indirect subsidiaries to, among other things, (i) engage in businesses other than the operation of Greektown Casino; (ii) incur or guarantee additional indebtedness; (iii) create liens; (iv) make certain investments; (v) pay dividends on or make payments in respect of capital stock; (vi) consolidate or merge with other companies; (vii) sell certain assets; (viii) enter into transactions with affiliates; (ix) agree to negative pledge clauses and (x) enter into sales and leasebacks. Failure to comply with these covenants could result in a default under the Indenture unless Greektown Superholdings obtains a waiver of, or otherwise mitigates, the default.
Events of Default: The Indenture for the Senior Secured Notes contains events of default, including (i) failure to pay principal, interest, fees or other amounts when due; (ii) breach of any covenants which are not cured within a stated cure period; (iii) default under certain other indebtedness; (iv) becoming subject to certain judgments; (v) failure to keep liens or security interests valid; (vi) certain events of bankruptcy or insolvency; (vii) impairment of any collateral to the loans; (viii) ceasing to own the casino complex; or (ix) loss of gaming or certain other licenses or the legal authority to conduct gaming activities. A default could result in an acceleration of the amounts outstanding under the Senior Secured Notes.
Revolving Credit Agreement
On the Effective Date, the Company entered into a Credit Agreement with Comerica Bank for the Revolving Loan. On July 6, 2011, the Company together with Comerica Bank agreed to certain modifications to the Credit Agreement (as so amended, the “Credit Agreement”).
General: The Credit Agreement provides for the Revolving Loan, which expires on December 30, 2013. The Revolving Loan is a revolving credit facility in an aggregate principal amount of up to $30 million (including $5 million for the issuance of standby letters of credit). The maximum expiration of individual letters of credit is twelve months after the issuance thereof or, if earlier, the maturity of the Revolving Loan.
Security and Guarantees: The Revolving Loan is secured by a perfected first priority lien and security interest on all the assets of the Company and all its direct and indirect subsidiaries, excluding, among other things, the Company’s gaming license. Additionally, effective July 2011, a requirement for a 45 day annual revolver “clean up period” was added to the Credit Agreement, during which the Company will be required to maintain a zero outstanding balance for 45 consecutive days.
Interest and Fees: Borrowings under the Revolving Loan initially bear interest at an annual rate of LIBOR plus 2.50%, or the higher of Comerica Bank’s prime reference rate and 3.25%. Upon the Trappers Mortgage Release (as defined below), the Revolving Loan will bear interest at an annual rate of LIBOR plus 1.75% (if the Leverage Ratio (as defined below) is less than 4 to 1) or 2.25% (if the Leverage Ratio is greater than or equal to 4 to 1) or at an annual rate of (a) the higher of (i) Comerica Bank’s prime reference rate and (ii) 2.50% minus (b) 0.50% (if the Leverage Ratio is greater than or equal to 4 to 1) or 1% (if the Leverage Ratio is less than 4 to 1). There is a facility fee of 0.50% per annum on the aggregate revolving credit commitment amount payable quarterly in arrears commencing on July 1, 2010 (in respect of the prior fiscal quarter or portion thereof), and on the first day of each fiscal quarter thereafter. There is also a non-refundable letter of credit fee of 3.50% per annum on the face amount of each letter of credit payable quarterly in advance.
“Leverage Ratio” means as of the last day of any fiscal quarter of the Company, the ratio of an amount equal to, on a consolidated basis, the sum of all of the funded debt of the Company and its subsidiaries as of such date, excluding all subordinated debt, to EBITDA (as defined below) for the four fiscal quarters then ending. Adjustments to the interest rate and the applicable letter of credit fee rate are implemented quarterly based on the Leverage Ratio.
Prepayment: The Revolving Loan requires mandatory prepayments in an amount equal to (i) 100% of the net proceeds of the permitted sale of assets (subject to certain exclusions and permitted reinvestments), (ii) 100% of the net proceeds of any recovery from insurance arising from an event of loss (subject to certain exclusions and permitted reinvestments), and (iii) 100% of the net proceeds for the issuance of any debt or equity securities (subject to certain exclusions). Except with respect to certain asset sales, mandatory prepayments do not reduce revolving credit commitments.
Note 7. Debt (continued)
Certain Covenants: The Credit Agreement contains a number of covenants that, among other things, restrict, subject to certain exceptions and materiality thresholds, the ability of the Company and its subsidiaries to sell assets and property, incur additional indebtedness, create liens on assets, make investments, loans, guarantees or advances, make distributions, dividends or payments on account of, or purchase, redeem or otherwise acquire, any of the Company’s capital stock, prepay certain indebtedness, engage in acquisitions, mergers or consolidations, engage in transactions with affiliates, amend agreements governing the Company’s indebtedness, including the New Senior Secured Notes, make capital expenditures, enter into negative pledges, change the fiscal year and change the Company’s or any subsidiaries name, jurisdiction of incorporation, or the location at which any Collateral is stored. The Company has also agreed to complete the Trappers Mortgage Release by June 30, 2012.
In addition, the Credit Agreement contains financial covenants pursuant to which the Company must achieve specified minimum earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (“EBITDA”) levels during twelve month periods ending on applicable test dates, and as of each fiscal year end, a Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio of not less than 1.05 to 1 (on a trailing twelve month basis).
“Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio” means EBITDA divided by Fixed Charges.
“Fixed Charges” means for any period, the sum, without duplication, of (i) all cash Interest Expense paid or payable in respect of such period on the Funded Debt of Borrower and its Subsidiaries on a Consolidated basis, plus (ii) all installments of principal or other sums paid or due and payable during such period by Borrower or any of its Consolidated Subsidiaries with respect to Funded Debt (other than the Advances and the original principal payment made with respect to Permitted Refinancing Indebtedness), plus (iii) all Income Taxes paid or payable in cash during such period, plus (iv) all Restricted Payments paid or payable in cash in respect of such period by Borrower (other than dividends on Capital Stock of the Borrower that were accrued and not paid), plus (v) all unfinanced Capital Expenditures of Borrower and its Consolidated Subsidiaries for such period (except certain excluded Capital Expenditures), plus (vi) all capitalized rent and lease expense of Borrower and its Consolidated Subsidiaries for such period, all as determined in accordance with GAAP.
“EBITDA” means Net Income for the applicable period plus, without duplication and only to the extent deducted in determining Net Income, (i) depreciation and amortization expense for such period, (ii) Interest Expense, whether paid or accrued, for such period, (iii) all Income Taxes for such period, (iv) reasonable legal, accounting, consulting, advisory and other out-of-pocket expenses incurred in connection with on-going bankruptcy court proceedings related to the bankruptcy of Greektown Holdings, L.L.C., and (v) for any fiscal quarter ending on or before June 30, 2012, specified non-recurring expenses may be added back to EBITDA.
Event of Default: The Revolving Loan contains certain events of default, including failure to make required payments; breaches of covenants which are not cured within a stated cure period or any representations and warranties in any material adverse respect; defaults under certain other indebtedness; certain judgments against the Company for the payment of money; failure to keep any material provision of any loan document valid, binding and enforceable; a change of control; an event of bankruptcy or insolvency; loss of the Company’s gaming licenses to the extent such loss is reasonably likely to cause a material adverse effect; the Company becomes the subject of certain enforcement actions if such enforcement action has not been dismissed or terminated within 60 days after commencement; or the Company becomes prohibited from conducting gaming activities for a period of greater than thirty consecutive days. A default could result in, among other things, a termination of the revolving credit commitment and acceleration of amounts outstanding under the Revolving Loan.
Trappers Mortgage Release: A small parcel of real property underlying a portion of our casino operations (the “Trappers Parcel”) is encumbered by mortgages which secure indebtedness owed to Greektown LLC and third parties. While the Company believes that these third party liens are discharged pursuant to the terms of the Plan, the liens established by these mortgages were not removed from the title record or insured by the title company prior to the Effective Date. Historical subordination agreements from the third parties holding such mortgages exist whereby such parties have agreed not to exercise remedies until Casino has exercised such remedies under a mortgage in favor of Casino on the same parcel.
Further, the Company and its subsidiaries have agreed to collaterally assign the mortgage in favor of the Company as well as a mortgage under which a pre-bankruptcy affiliate of the Company is the borrower (but as to which the Company is also the beneficiary of a collateral assignment to secure the mortgage in favor of us) to the lenders under the Revolving Loan on a first-priority basis and to the holders of the Senior Secured Notes on a second-priority basis. However, if the subordination agreements and the collateral assignment of the mortgage in favor of the Company and under which the Company’s pre-bankruptcy affiliate is the borrower were determined not to be enforceable, such mortgages could be deemed to have a higher priority than the mortgage on such property that the Company is granting to holders of the notes. In the event that the holders of such mortgages are able to exercise their rights under such mortgages, they would be entitled, among other remedies, to foreclose such liens which could result in the Company’s loss of title to such property. The Company has covenanted to resolve the issue by June 30, 2012.
As of December 31, 2011, the Company had approximately $0.9 million of letters of credit outstanding.
Note 8. Shareholders’ Equity
Common Stock
Greektown Superholdings is authorized to issue 5 million shares of Common Stock, of which 142,423 shares were issued and outstanding as of December 31, 2011 and 7,843 unvested restricted shares have been granted. A total of 4,354,935 shares of Greektown Superholdings’ Common Stock are designated as Series A-1 Common Stock, par value $0.01 per share (the “Series A-1 Common Stock”), and a total of 645,065 shares of Greektown Superholdings’ Common Stock are designated as Series A-2 Common Stock, par value $0.01 per share (the “Series A-2 Common Stock”). Each share of Series A-1 Common Stock represents the same economic interest in Greektown Superholdings as each share of Series A-2 Common Stock and such shares differ only with respect to voting rights as set forth below.
Preferred Stock
Greektown Superholdings is authorized to issue 2,333,333 shares of Preferred Stock. A total of 1,688,268 shares of Greektown Superholdings’ Preferred Stock are designated as a series known as Series A-1 Convertible Preferred Stock, par value $0.01 per share (the “Series A-1 Preferred Stock”), of which 1,463,535 were issued and outstanding as of December 31, 2011. A total of 645,065 shares of Greektown Superholdings’ Preferred Stock are designated as a series known as Series A-2 Participating Convertible Preferred Stock, par value $0.01 per share (the “Series A-2 Preferred Stock”; together with the Series A-1 Preferred Stock, the “Series A Preferred Stock”), of which 162,255 shares were issued and outstanding as of December 31, 2011. A holder’s shares of Series A Preferred Stock are voluntarily convertible at the election of such holder at any time after December 31, 2010 and all shares of Series A Preferred Stock are mandatorily convertible upon the vote or written consent of 66 2/3% of the then outstanding shares of Series A Preferred Stock (with each holder of Series A-1 Preferred Stock and each holder of Series A-2 Preferred Stock entitled to cast one vote with respect to each share of Series A-1 Preferred Stock or Series A-2 Preferred Stock held by such holder) voting together as a single class. Each share of Series A-1 Preferred is convertible into the lesser of (i) such number of fully paid and nonassessable shares of Series A-1 Common Stock as is determined by dividing (A) the sum of $100 per share of Series A Preferred Stock plus an amount equal to the aggregate amount of accrued but unpaid dividends per share of Series A Preferred Stock whether or not declared and subject to certain adjustments (the “Series A Reference Price”) by (B) the Series A Conversion Price (defined below) in effect at the time of conversion, and (ii) the maximum number of shares of Series A-1 Common Stock that can be issued to such holder in accordance with the Certificate of Incorporation of Greektown Superholdings and in compliance with the requirements of the MGCB. Each share of Series A-2 Preferred Stock is convertible into the lesser of (i) such number of fully paid and nonassessable shares of Series A-2 Common Stock as is determined by dividing the Series A Reference Price by the Series A Conversion Price in effect at the time of conversion and (ii) the maximum number of shares of Series A-2 Common Stock that can be issued to such holder in accordance with the Certificate of Incorporation and in compliance with the requirements of the MGCB. The “Series A Conversion Price” means an amount initially equal to $100 but which is subject to adjustment for stock splits, combinations, certain dividends and distributions and with respect to mergers, reorganizations and similar transactions as set forth in the Certificate of Incorporation. Each share of Series A-1 Preferred Stock represents the same economic interest in Greektown Superholdings as each share of Series A-2 Preferred Stock and such shares differ only with respect to voting rights as set forth below.
Note 8. Shareholders’ Equity (continued)
Summary of Stock Terms
Issuance of Additional Stock. The Board does not have the right to (i) authorize additional shares of Common Stock without the vote of the holders of shares of capital stock of Greektown Superholdings representing a majority of the votes represented by all outstanding shares of capital stock (on an as-converted basis) of Greektown Superholdings entitled to vote, voting together as a single class, (ii) authorize or issue additional shares of Common Stock or Preferred Stock if such authorization or issuance would adversely affect (A) the Series A-1 Preferred Stock in a manner different than it would affect the Series A-2 Preferred Stock without the separate consent of a majority of the outstanding shares of Series A-1 Preferred Stock and (B) the Series A-2 Preferred Stock in a manner different than it would affect the Series A-1 Preferred Stock without the separate consent of a majority of the outstanding shares of Series A-2 Preferred Stock or (iii) cause Greektown Superholdings to issue or sell to any person (including holders of shares of capital stock and affiliates of holders of shares of capital stock) more than five percent (5%) of any Common Stock, Preferred Stock or other voting securities, voting interests or equity interests of Greektown Superholdings except in accordance with the provisions of the Michigan Gaming Act and the rules promulgated there under. Greektown Superholdings may not issue any class of non-voting equity securities unless and solely to the extent permitted by section 1123(a)(6) of the title 11 of the Bankruptcy Code; provided, however that such restriction (A) will have no further force and effect beyond that required under section 1123(a)(6) of the Bankruptcy Code; (B) will have such force and effect, if any, only for so long as section 1123(a)(6) of the Bankruptcy Code is in effect and applicable to Greektown Superholdings; and (C) in all events may be amended or eliminated in accordance with applicable law from time to time in effect.
Transfer Restrictions. No stockholder may transfer its shares of Common Stock, Preferred Stock or other voting securities, voting interests or equity interests of Greektown Superholdings unless such transfer is in accordance with the Michigan Gaming Act and the rules promulgated there under.
Voting Rights. The holders of Series A-1 Common Stock are entitled to ten (10) votes for each outstanding share of Series A-1 Common Stock. The holders of Series A-2 Common Stock are entitled to one (1) vote for each outstanding share of Series A-2 Common Stock; provided, however, that, except as otherwise required by law, holders of Common Stock are not entitled to vote on any amendment to the Certificate of Incorporation that relates solely to the terms of one or more outstanding series of Preferred Stock if the holders of such affected series are entitled, either separately or together with the holders of one or more other such series, to vote thereon pursuant to the Certificate of Incorporation or pursuant to the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware. Except as provided below, the holders of Series A-1 Preferred Stock are entitled a number of votes equal to ten (10) times the number of shares of Series A-1 Common Stock into which such share of Series A-1 Preferred Stock is then convertible. Except as provided below, the holders of Series A-2 Preferred Stock are entitled to a number of votes equal to one (1) times the number of shares of Series A-2 Common Stock into which such share of Series A-2 Preferred Stock is then convertible. Except as provided by law and as set forth below, holders of Series A-1 Preferred Stock and holders of Series A-2 Preferred Stock will vote together with the holders of Common Stock as a single class. The approval of a majority of the votes of Series A-1 Preferred Stock are required in order to amend, alter or repeal any provision of the Certificate of Incorporation or Bylaws of Greektown Superholdings if such amendment, alteration or repeal would adversely affect the Series A-1 Preferred Stock in a manner different than it would affect the Series A-2 Preferred Stock. The approval of a majority of the votes of Series A-2 Preferred Stock are required in order to amend, alter or repeal any provision of the Certificate of Incorporation or Bylaws of Greektown Superholdings if such amendment, alteration or repeal would adversely affect the Series A-2 Preferred Stock in a manner different than it would affect the Series A-2 Preferred Stock. Any of the rights, powers, preferences and other terms of the Series A Preferred Stock set forth in the Certificate of Incorporation may be waived on behalf of all holders of Series A Preferred Stock by the affirmative written consent or vote of the holders of sixty six and two thirds percent (66 2/3%) of the shares of Series A Preferred Stock then outstanding (with each holder of Series A-1 Preferred Stock and each holder of Series A-2 Preferred Stock entitled to cast one vote with respect to each share of Series A-1 Preferred Stock or Series A-2 Preferred Stock held by such holder) voting together as a single class.
Note 8. Shareholders’ Equity (Successor) (continued)
Dividends. Each share of Series A Preferred Stock (including unissued shares) accrues dividends on a daily basis at the rate equal to 7.5% per annum of the Series A Reference Price (whether or not declared), subject to appropriate adjustment in the event of any stock dividend, stock split, combination or other similar recapitalization with respect to the Series A Preferred Stock. Such dividends are cumulative; provided, however, that such dividends should be payable only when, as, and if declared by the Board and for so long as Greektown Superholdings is subject to the jurisdiction of the MGCB, Greektown Superholdings may not pay any dividends unless such dividends are approved by, and issued in compliance with the regulations and restrictions imposed by, the MGCB. Greektown Superholdings may not declare, pay or set aside any dividends on shares of any other class or series of capital stock of Greektown Superholdings (other than dividends on shares of Common Stock payable in shares of Common Stock) unless the holders of the Series A Preferred Stock then outstanding will first receive, or simultaneously receive, a dividend equal to (i) the amount of accrued but unpaid dividends with respect to each share of Series A Preferred Stock plus (ii) either (A) in the case of a dividend on Common Stock or any class or series of capital stock convertible into Common Stock, the amount that would have been payable with respect to each share of Series A Preferred Stock if such share had been converted to Common Stock on the record date for payment of such dividend or (B) in the case of a dividend on any class or series of capital stock that is not convertible into Common Stock, an amount determined by (x) dividing the amount of the dividend payable on each share of such class or series of capital stock by the original issuance price of each share of such class or series of capital stock and (y) multiplying such fraction by the Series A Reference Price; provided that, if Greektown Superholdings declares, pays or sets aside, on the same date, a dividend on more than one class or series of capital stock, the holders of Series A Preferred Stock will receive an amount calculated based on the dividend on the class or series of capital stock that would result in the highest Series A Preferred Stock dividend.
Distributions. All distributions to the shareholders of Greektown Superholdings upon a voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of Greektown Superholdings, if any, will be made in accordance with the order and priority set forth in the Certificate of Incorporation.
Warrants to Purchase Series A Preferred Stock
On the effective date, Greektown Superholdings issued warrants to purchase Series A-1 Preferred Stock and warrants to purchase Series A-2 Preferred Stock, in each case, at an initial purchase price per share equal to $0.01 (the “Warrant Shares”) which price will be adjusted as set forth in the Warrant to Purchase Series A Convertible Preferred Stock (the “Warrant”), which will be used for both warrants to purchase the Series A-1 Preferred Stock and warrants to purchase the Series A-2 Preferred Stock. Greektown Superholdings entered into such warrants with any Put Party and/or holder of Old Senior Notes who elected to purchase Preferred Stock representing more than 4.9% of the capital stock of Greektown Superholdings as of the Effective Date, or if such party that qualified as an “Institutional Investor” under Michigan gaming law elected to purchase more than 14.9% of the capital stock of Greektown Superholdings as of the Effective Date.
Voting Rights. The holders of Warrants have no voting rights prior to exercise of the Warrant.
Dividends. The holder of a Warrant is entitled to receive any and all dividends and other distributions paid to the holders of shares of Series A Preferred Stock in accordance with the Certificate of Incorporation. However, such dividends or distributions are payable only upon exercise of the Warrant. In accordance with the Certificate of Incorporation, from the date on which Greektown Superholdings first issues Series A Preferred Stock, each Warrant Share (including unissued Warrant Shares) will accrue dividends on a daily basis at the rate equal to 7.5% per annum of the Series A Reference Price (whether or not declared), subject to appropriate adjustment in the event of any stock dividend, stock split, combination or other similar recapitalization with respect to the Series A Preferred Stock.
Early Termination. In the event of any capital reorganization, or any reclassification of the capital stock of Greektown Superholdings (other than a change in par value or from par value to no par value or no par value to par value or as a result of a stock dividend or subdivision, split-up or combination of shares), or the consolidation or merger of Greektown Superholdings with or into another corporation (other than a merger solely to effect a reincorporation of Greektown Superholdings into another state), or the sale, lease, transfer, exclusive license or other disposition in a single transaction or series of related transactions of all or substantially all of its assets to any other person and such transaction results in a liquidation, dissolution or winding up of Greektown Superholdings pursuant to Section B.3 of Article 4 of Greektown Superholdings’ Certificate of Incorporation, at any time prior to the earlier of the expiration of a Warrant or the exercise in full of a Warrant, each holder of a Warrant will be entitled to receive, subject to the consummation of such event, the cash, securities and other property that such holder would have received in respect of the Warrant Shares had such holder exercised its Warrant immediately prior to the effective time of such event less an amount equal to (i) the number of Warrant Shares then subject to the applicable Warrant multiplied by (ii) the purchase price per share of such Warrant in effect at the time of such event.
Limitations on Exercise. The exercise of each Warrant and the issuance of the Warrant Shares by Greektown Superholdings upon such exercise are subject to Article Twelve of the Certificate of Incorporation which prohibits the issuance of shares of capital stock of Greektown Superholdings in certain circumstances.
Note 9. Leases
The Company leases certain portions of its owned or leased facilities under noncancelable operating leases. Rental income was $0.5 million, $0.3 million, and $0.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2011, six months ended December 31, 2010, and six months ended June 30, 2010, respectively.
Future minimum rental payments required under non-cancelable leases with initial or remaining lease terms in excess of one year and lease and sublease income as of December 31, 2011 are as follows (in thousands):
Certain leases include escalation clauses relating to the consumer price index, utilities, taxes, and other operating expenses. The Company will receive additional rental income in future years based on those factors that cannot be estimated currently.
Note 10. Income Taxes
Income taxes
The Company’s income tax provision consists of the following (in thousands):
Included in other accrued income taxes is an estimated income tax contingency of $8.9 million related to certain potential taxes that could be assessed in connection with the enactment of the Plan. The Company records potential penalties on uncertain positions when the Company expects to assert a position. Interest is recorded on uncertain tax positions subsequent to the passage of the filing deadline. Included in the tax contingency is $1.8 million of accrued penalties and interest.
Note 10. Income Taxes (continued)
A reconciliation of the change in our estimated income tax contingency as follows (in thousands):
The Company files state of Michigan and federal income tax returns, and is no longer subject to state and local income tax examinations by the tax authorities for years before 2007. At December 31, 2011 and 2010, there is approximately $8.9 million of unrecognized tax benefits that if recognized would affect the annual effective tax rate.
Deferred tax
Deferred income taxes result from temporary differences between the recognition of income and expenses for financial statement and income tax purposes. Temporary differences and net operating loss carryforwards, which give rise to the net deferred tax liability position, as of December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010 (in thousands), are as follows:
Deferred Tax Asset
Deferred Tax Liability
The Company has a full valuation allowance at December 31, 2011, as it is not expected that the deferred tax assets will be realized. The net change in valuation allowance during the year ended December 31, 2011 was an increase of $12.7 million. The Company generated a net operating loss carryforward of approximately $32 million which expires in 2031 and 2032.
.
Note 10. Income Taxes (continued)
Tax rate reconciliation - Income (loss) before provisions for income taxes
The Company’s effective tax rate reconciliation for the year ended December 31, 2011, six months ended December 31, 2010, and six months ended June 30, 2010 is as follows:
The predecessor was organized as a partnership and federal income taxes were not applicable.
Note 11. Gaming Taxes and Fees
Under the provisions of the Michigan Gaming Control and Revenue Act (the Act), casino licensees are subject to the following gaming taxes and fees on an ongoing basis:
• An annual licensing fee;
• An annual assessment fee payment, together with the Detroit Commercial Casinos, of all MGCB regulatory and enforcement costs. The Company prepaid $10.2 million for its portion of the fiscal 2012 annual assessment in 2011; the fiscal 2011 annual assessment was paid in 2010.
• A wagering tax, calculated based on adjusted gross gaming receipts, payable daily, of 19%.
• A municipal services fee payment; an amount equal to the greater of 1.25% of adjusted gross gaming receipts or $4.0 million annually.
These gaming taxes and fees are in addition to the taxes, fees, and assessments customarily paid by business entities conducting business in the state of Michigan and the city of Detroit. The Company recorded $74.9 million, $36.1 million, and $38.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2011, six months ended December 31, 2010, and six months ended June 30, 2010, respectively.
The Company is required to pay a daily fee to the city of Detroit in the amount of 1% of adjusted gross receipts, increasing to 2% of adjusted gross receipts if adjusted gross receipts exceed $400 million in any one calendar year. Additionally, if and when adjusted gross receipts exceed $400 million, the Company will be required to pay $4 million to the city of Detroit. The Company’s adjusted gross receipts did not exceed $400 million during the calendar year ended 2011 or 2010.
Note 12. Commitments and Contingencies
The Company is a defendant in various pending litigation. In management’s opinion, the ultimate outcome of such litigation will not have a material adverse effect on the results of operations or the financial position of the Company.
Under the Revised Development Agreement, should a triggering event, as defined, occur, the Company must sell its assets, business, and operations as a going concern at their fair market value to a developer named by the city of Detroit. The Company noted that for the year ended December 31, 2011, no triggering event has occurred. As part of the bankruptcy reorganization process, the Company engaged Moelis & Company, LLC (“Moelis”) to act as investment banker. The Moelis engagement letter provides for a success fee if certain requirements are met. Moelis asserted on administrative claim for fees and expenses totaling approximately $12.9 million, of which approximately $3 million was paid prior to the effective date of the reorganization. The Company believes such amount substantially exceeds the amount to which Moelis is entitled under its engagement letter. The Company has filed an objection to Moelis’s administrative claim, and scheduling of a hearing on that matter before the United States Bankruptcy Court for the Eastern District of Michigan is pending.
The Company requested a ruling from the Michigan Department of Treasury regarding certain potential tax liabilities under the Michigan Business Tax (principally related to the survival of certain Michigan tax attributes such as net operating loss carryforwards and the tax basis of assets) arising from the June 30, 2010 restructuring transactions. The Company failed to receive a favorable ruling. In response, the Company has asked the Bankruptcy Court to issue a determination as to these matters. A hearing on the Company’s request for a determination was held on March 21, 2011, at which time the Bankruptcy Court requested that the parties submit further briefing. Such briefing was submitted and the Bankruptcy Court has not yet ruled.
Certain parties to contracts entered into prior to the commencement of the Debtors’ bankruptcy proceedings have asserted claims alleging that the Company assumed those contracts and is responsible for amounts necessary to cure prepetition defaults under such contracts.
Certain of such claims have been withdrawn. There are currently additional claims that may still be asserted. The amounts of such claims are estimated at approximately $0.0 million and $0.6 million, as of year ended December 31, 2011, and 2010, respectively.
Note 13. Stock Based Compensation
Certain members of the Company’s executive team are eligible to receive restricted share units under the terms of the Company’s restricted share unit program. On July 1, 2011 under the terms of the restricted share unit program, the Company’s President and Chief Executive Officer was granted 7,000 restricted share units, of which 2,333 restricted share units vest on each of the first two anniversaries of the grant date and the remaining 2,334 restricted share units vest on June 15, 2014. The units will be settled as shares of Series A-1 Common Stock within 30 days of the final vesting date, subject to acceleration in the event of a change of control, or certain other circumstances. On July 1, 2011, the Company’s Executive Chairman was granted 1,333 restricted share units, of which the total 1,333 restricted share units vested on December 31, 2011. Additionally, on October 1, 2011, the Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer was granted 3,000 restricted share units, of which 1,000 restricted share units vest on each of the three anniversaries of the grant date.
All annual retainers to the board of directors will be paid half in cash and half in restricted shares of Series A-1 Common Stock, vesting in quarterly increments over a one year period. Each director may elect annually to receive all or part of the equity portion of the award in cash. Such cash payments will be made when the equity would have vested.
The director compensation program provides that each member of the Company’s Board of Directors is entitled to receive restricted shares of the Company’s Series A-1 Common Stock. In addition to the annual retainer, upon joining the Company’s Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board became entitled to $275,000 of such stock; the Vice Chairman of the Board became entitled to $150,000 of such stock, and all other directors are entitled to $125,000 of such stock. All such restricted shares will vest in three equal annual installments.
The Company accounts for its stock based compensation in accordance with ASC Topic 718. Stock based compensation expense for the year ended December 31, 2011, and six months ended December 31, 2010 totaled $0.6 million and $0.2 million, respectively.
The weighted-average fair value at the grant date of restricted stock and restricted share units granted during the year ended December 31, 2011 was approximately $90.
Note 13. Stock Based Compensation (continued)
The following table summarizes the Company’s unvested restricted share and restricted share units stock activity.
Note 14. Earnings per Share
EPS is computed by dividing the net loss available to common stockholders by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding for the period. Diluted EPS reflects the potential dilution that could occur if certain restrictions lapse on restricted stock awards and preferred stock and warrants are converted to common stock. Anti-dilutive securities are excluded from diluted EPS.
The following is a reconciliation of the number of shares used in the basic and diluted EPS computations for the year ended December 31, 2011 and six months ended December 31, 2010 (in thousands, except per share data):
Due to the Company’s net loss for the year ended December 31, 2011 and the six months ended December 31, 2010, the dilutive effect of restricted share units, convertible preferred stock, and warrants were not included in the computation of EPS, as their inclusion would have been anti-dilutive.
Note 15. 401(k) Plan
Employees of the Company can participate in a 401(k) Plan. For union employees, the Company makes contributions to the 401(k) Plan based on years of service. The total payments made and expense recognized under the 401 (k) Plan by the Company were $2.1 million, $1.0 million, and $0.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2011, six months ended December 31, 2010, and six months ended June 30, 2010.
Note 16. Fair Value Measurements
The Fair Value Measurements topic of the FASB ASC establishes a framework for measuring fair value. That framework provides a fair value hierarchy that prioritizes the inputs to valuation techniques used to measure fair value. The hierarchy gives the highest priority to unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities (level 1 measurements) and the lowest priority to unobservable inputs (level 3 measurements). The three levels of the fair value hierarchy under this guidance are described below:
Level 1: Inputs to the valuation methodology are unadjusted quoted prices for identical assets or liabilities in active markets that the Company has the ability to access.
Level 2: Inputs to the valuation methodology include:
· Quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities in active markets;
· Quoted prices for identical or similar assets or liabilities in inactive markets;
· Inputs other than quoted prices that are observable for the asset or liability;
· Inputs that are derived principally from or corroborated by observable market data by correlation or other means.
Level 3: Inputs to the valuation methodology are unobservable and significant to the fair value measurement.
The assets and liabilities fair value measurement level within the fair value hierarchy is based on the lowest level of any input that is significant to the fair value measurement. The valuation methodologies for these can be found at Note 2.
Valuation techniques used are designed to maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs. The methods described above may produce a fair value calculation that may not be indicative of net realizable value or reflective of future fair values.
Note 17. Michigan Gaming Control Board Covenant
On June 28, 2010, the MGCB approved Greektown’s new ownership structure, capitalization and management. The MGCB’s approval order (the “Order”) provides that the Company must demonstrate its continuing financial viability for so long as any indebtedness is outstanding under the Revolving Loan and the Notes by complying with a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio maintenance covenant and a limitation on certain restricted payments.
Minimum Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio
The Order requires the Company and its subsidiaries to maintain a ratio of EBITDA to Fixed Charges (each as defined below) on the last day of each calendar quarter of not less than:
(1)	1.00 to 1.00 (until March 31, 2011); and
(2)	1.05 to 1.00 (after March 31, 2011).
The fixed charge coverage ratio will be measured from the Effective Date until the applicable determination date for all fiscal quarters ending on or before March 31, 2011 and on a trailing twelve month basis thereafter.
The Order defines the ratio as the ratio of:
(1)	EBITDA for the measurement period then ending to
(2)	Fixed Charges for the measurement period.
Note 17. Michigan Gaming Control Board Covenant (continued)
For purposes of the Order:
“EBITDA” means, for any period of determination, net income for the applicable period plus, without duplication and only to the extent deducted in determining net income:
(1)	depreciation and amortization expense for such period;
(2)	interest expense, whether paid or accrued, for such period;
(3)	all income taxes for such period; and
(4) 	for any fiscal quarter ending on or before June 30, 2011, specified non-recurring expenses for such period.
“Fixed Charges” means, for any period, the sum, without duplication, of:
(1)	all cash interest expense on funded debt paid or payable in respect of such period; plus
(2)	all installments of principal with respect to funded debt, including excess cash flow recapture payments, or other sums paid or due and payable during such period by the Company with respect to all of its funded debt (other than the repayment of advances under a revolving credit facility and payments of principal in connection with any refinancing of any funded debt); plus
(3)	all preferred dividends paid in cash for such period; plus
(4)	all unfinanced capital expenditures for such period; plus
(5)	all capitalized rent and lease expense for such period.
The Company will be permitted to cure any anticipated non-compliance with this ratio with capital raised in an offering of equity securities. The Company may add to EBITDA the net proceeds of any offering of equity securities of the Company or its subsidiaries consummated before the date that a financial audit must be delivered to the MGCB for the applicable period with respect to which the fixed charge coverage ratio is measured under the order to make up the amount of any shortfall in the minimum fixed charge coverage ratio for the applicable period. Any equity proceeds exceeding those necessary to make up the shortfall will be available to make up shortfalls in the minimum fixed charge coverage ratio for any subsequent periods.
Limitation on Certain Restricted Payments
The MGCB order also prohibits the Company from making any distributions or pay any dividends on account of the Company’s capital stock without the prior written approval of the MGCB, other than repurchases, redemptions or other acquisitions for value of any of the Company’s preferred stock or common stock held by any current or former officer, director or employee of the Company or its subsidiaries pursuant to any equity subscription agreement, stock option agreement, shareholders agreement or similar agreement, not to exceed $1.5 million in any twelve month period.
Note 18. Subsequent Events
On January 3, 2012, the Company paid its semi-annual interest payment of $25.0 million on the Senior Secured Notes.
On February 8, 2012, the Company entered into an agreement to purchase property at a cost of $1.7 million. The property will be used in connection with an 850 car valet parking garage facility that the Company is expecting to open within the first quarter of 2013, subject to obtaining the required financing and regulatory approvals.
ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
None.
ITEM 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES
Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures
As required by Rule 13a-15 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), the Company carried out an evaluation under the supervision and with the participation of the Company’s management, including our President (Chief Executive Officer) and Senior Vice President (Chief Financial Officer), of the effectiveness of the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures as of December 31, 2011. In designing and evaluating the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures, the Company and its management recognize that there are inherent limitations to the effectiveness of any system of disclosure controls and procedures, including the possibility of human error and the circumvention or overriding of the controls and procedures. Accordingly, even effective disclosure controls and procedures can only provide reasonable assurance of achieving their desired control objectives. Additionally, in evaluating and implementing possible controls and procedures, the Company’s management was required to apply its reasonable judgment. Based upon the required evaluation, our President (Chief Executive Officer) and Senior Vice President (Chief Financial Officer) concluded that as of December 31, 2011, the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures were effective at the reasonable assurance level to ensure that information required to be disclosed by the Company in the reports it files or submits under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the Securities and Exchange Commission’s rules and forms, and procedures also were effective in ensuring that information required to be disclosed by the Company in the reports it files or submits under the Exchange Act is accumulated and communicated to its management, including the President (Chief Executive Officer) and Senior Vice President (Chief Financial Officer) as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.
Internal Control over Financial Reporting
In connection with the filing of this Form 10-K, management evaluated, under the supervision and with the participation of the Company’s President (Chief Executive Officer) and Senior Vice President (Chief Financial Officer), the effectiveness of the design and operation of the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures as of December 31, 2011. Based upon that evaluation, the Company’s President (Chief Executive Officer) and Senior Vice President (Chief Financial Officer) concluded that the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of December 31, 2011.
Changes in Internal Control over Financial Reporting
There was no change in the Company’s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the year ended December 31, 2011 that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company’s internal control over financial reporting.
Item 9B. Other Information
None
PART III
Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance.
The information required by this item is set forth in our definitive proxy statement for the 2012 Annual Meeting of Stockholders and is incorporated herein by reference to such proxy statement.
Item 11. Executive Compensation.
The information required by this item is set forth in our definitive proxy statement for the 2012 Annual Meeting of Stockholders and is incorporated herein by reference to such proxy statement.
Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters.
The information required by this item is set forth in our definitive proxy statement for the 2012 Annual Meeting of Stockholders and is incorporated herein by reference to such proxy statement.
Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence.
The information required by this item is set forth in our definitive proxy statement for the 2012 Annual Meeting of Stockholders and is incorporated herein by reference to such proxy statement.
Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services.
The information required by this item is set forth in our definitive proxy statement for the 2012 Annual Meeting of Stockholders and is incorporated herein by reference to such proxy statement.
PART IV
Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules.
(a)(1) Financial Statements. The financial statements filed as part of this report are listed on the Index to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
(a)(2) Financial Statement Schedules. Schedules are omitted because they are not applicable or the required information is shown in the consolidated financial statements or notes thereto.
(a)(3) Exhibits. Reference is made to the Exhibit Index. The exhibits are included, or incorporated by reference, in the Annual Report on Form 10-K and are numbered in accordance with Item 601 of Regulation S-K.
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
Signature
Title
Date
/s/ Michael Puggi
President and Chief Executive Officer
March 30, 2012
Michael Puggi
/s/ Glen Tomaszewski
Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
March 30, 2012
Glen Tomaszewski
/s/ George Boyer
Executive Chairman of the Board and Director
March 30, 2012
George Boyer
/s/ Freman Hendrix
Vice Chairman of the Board and Director
March 30, 2012
Freman Hendrix
/s/ John L. Bitove
Director
March 30, 2012
John L. Bitove
/s/ Michael E. Duggan
Director
March 30, 2012
Mike Duggan
/s/ Benjamin C. Duster IV
Director
March 30, 2012
Benjamin C. Duster IV
/s/ Yvette E. Landau
Director
March 30, 2012
Yvette E. Landau
/s/ Darrell Burks
Director
March 30, 2012
Darrell Burks
EXHIBIT INDEX
10.17
Pledge and Security Agreement, dated June 30, 2010, by and among Greektown Superholdings, Inc., Greektown Newco Sub, Inc., Greektown Holdings, L.L.C., Greektown Casino, L.L.C., Realty Equity Company Inc., Contract Builders Corporation and Comerica Bank.*****
10.18
Pledge and Security Agreement, dated June 30, 2010, by and among Greektown Superholdings, Inc., Greektown Newco Sub, Inc., Greektown Holdings, L.L.C., Greektown Casino, L.L.C., Realty Equity Company Inc., Contract Builders Corporation and Wilmington Trust FSB.*****
10.19
Credit Agreement, dated June 30, 2010, by and between Greektown Superholdings, Inc. and Comerica Bank.**
10.20
Form of Indemnification Agreement, entered into by and between Greektown Superholdings, Inc. and each of the members of the Board of Directors. ******
16.1
KPMG Letter dated March 31, 2010.*
21.1
List of Subsidiaries of Greektown Superholdings, Inc.*
23.1
Consent of Ernst & Young LLP, independent registered public accounting firm.
31.1
Certification Pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a).
31.2
Certification Pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a).
32.1
Certification Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as Adopted Pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
32.2
Certification Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as Adopted Pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
* Previously filed with Form 10
** Previously filed with Form 8-K on July 2, 2010
*** Previously filed with Amendment No. 1 to Form 10
**** Previously filed with Amendment No. 2 to Form 10
***** Previously filed with Form S-4 on September 17,
****** Previously filed with Amendment No. 3 to Form S-4 on December 15, 2010