Item 2. Properties.
The Underlying Properties
The Underlying Properties consist of the working interests owned by ECA and the Private Investors in the Marcellus Shale formation in Greene County, Pennsylvania arising under leases and Farmout agreements related to properties from which the PDP Royalty Interest and the PUD Royalty Interest were conveyed. As of December 31, 2013 the total gas reserves attributable to the Trust interests were 60.5 Bcf. ECA continues to be the operator of all of the wells subject to the Royalty Interests although, as of January 1, 2013, it is no longer contractually obligated to the Trust to remain so. The reserves attributable to the Royalty Interests include the reserves that are expected to be produced from the Marcellus Shale formation during the remaining portion of the 20-year period in
which the Trust owns the Royalty Interests as well as the residual interest in the reserves that the Trust will sell on or shortly following the Termination Date.
Natural Gas Reserves
Ryder Scott estimated natural gas reserves attributable to the Royalty Interests as of December 31, 2013. Numerous uncertainties are inherent in estimating reserve volumes and values, and the estimates are subject to change as additional information becomes available. The reserves actually recovered and the timing of production of the reserves may vary significantly from the estimates.
Proved reserves of the Royalty Interests. The following table sets forth, certain estimated Proved reserves, estimated future net cash flows and the discounted present value thereof attributable to the Royalty Interests, as of December 31, 2013, in each case derived from the Ryder Scott reserve report. The reserve report was prepared by Ryder Scott in accordance with criteria established by the SEC. In accordance with the SEC's rules, the reserves presented below were determined using the twelve month unweighted arithmetic average of the first-day-of-the-month price for the period from January 1, 2013 through December 31, 2013, without giving effect to any derivative transactions, and were held constant for the life of the properties. This yielded a price for natural gas of $3.70 per Mcf. The net revenues attributable to the Trust's reserves are net of the Trust's obligation to reimburse ECA for the post-production costs. The reserves and cash flows attributable to the Trust's interests include only the reserves attributable to the Underlying Properties that are expected to be produced within the remaining portion of the 20-year period in which the Trust owns the Royalty Interests as well as the residual interest in the reserves that the Trust will own on the Termination Date. A summary of the Ryder Scott reserve report dated December 11, 2013 is included as Appendix A to this report.
(1)The present values of future net cash flows for the Royalty Interests were determined using a discount rate of 10% per annum.
Information concerning historical changes in net Proved reserves attributable to the Royalty Interests, and the calculation of the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows related thereto, is contained in the unaudited supplemental information contained elsewhere in this report. The Trust has not filed reserve estimates covering the Royalty Interests with any other federal authority or agency.
The Reserve Report
Technologies. The reserve report was prepared using decline curve analysis to determine the reserves of individual Producing Wells.
Internal Controls. Ryder Scott, the independent petroleum engineering consultant, estimated, in accordance with appropriate engineering, geologic, and evaluation principles and techniques that are in accordance with practices generally accepted in the petroleum industry, and definitions and guidelines established by the SEC, all of the proved reserve information in this report. These reserves estimation methods and techniques are widely taught in university petroleum curricula and throughout the industry's ongoing training programs. Although these appropriate engineering, geologic, and evaluation principles and techniques that are in accordance with practices generally accepted in the petroleum
industry are based upon established scientific concepts, the application of such principles involves extensive judgment and is subject to changes in existing knowledge and technology, economic conditions and applicable statutory and regulatory provisions. These same industry wide applied techniques are used in determining our estimated reserve quantities. The technical persons responsible for preparing the reserves estimates presented herein meet the requirements regarding qualifications, independence, objectivity and confidentiality set forth in the Society of Petroleum Engineers' Standards Pertaining to the Estimating and Auditing of Oil and Gas Reserves Information. ECA's internal control over its reserve reporting process is designed to result in accurate and reliable estimates in compliance with applicable regulations and guidance. Internal reserve preparation is performed by staff reservoir engineers and geoscientists before review by the Reservoir Engineering Manager and finally the Chief Operating Officer. These individuals consult regularly with Ryder Scott during the reserve estimation process to review properties, assumptions, and any new data available. Additionally, ECA's senior management reviewed and approved all Ryder Scott reserve reports contained herein.
ECA's reserves are estimated by the Reservoir Engineering Manager. The Reservoir Engineering Manager has a Bachelor of Science degree in Petroleum Engineering. He has over six years of oil and gas industry experience in Reservoir Engineering. During that time, he has focused on reserves estimates and project economics.
ECA's Chief Operating Officer is the primary technical person responsible for overseeing the reserve reporting process. This individual has a Bachelor of Science degree in Chemical Engineering with Masters of Petroleum Engineering coursework along with a Master of Business Administration degree. He has worked in drilling, completions, production, and reservoir engineering along with acquisitions during his career and is a member of the Society of Petroleum Engineers. He has over ten years of experience in reserve evaluation.
Sale and Abandonment of Underlying Properties
ECA and any transferee will have the right to abandon its interest in any well or property comprising a portion of the Underlying Properties if, in its opinion, such well or property ceases to produce or is not capable of producing in commercially paying quantities. To reduce or eliminate the potential conflict of interest between ECA and the Trust in determining whether a well is capable of producing in commercially paying quantities, ECA is required under the applicable conveyance to act as a reasonably prudent operator in the AMI under the same or similar circumstances would act if it were acting with respect to its own properties, disregarding the existence of the royalty interests as a burden affecting such property.
ECA generally may sell all or a portion of its interests in the Underlying Properties, subject to and burdened by the Royalty Interests, without the consent of the Trust unitholders. In addition, ECA may, without the consent of the Trust unitholders, require the Trust to release Royalty Interests with an aggregate value to the Trust not to exceed $5.0 million during any 12-month period. These releases will be made only in connection with a sale by ECA of the Underlying Properties and are conditioned upon the Trust receiving an amount equal to the fair value to the Trust of such Royalty Interests. ECA operates all of the wells subject to the Royalty Interests. ECA continues to be the operator of all of the wells subject to the Royalty Interests although, as of January 1, 2013, it is no longer contractually obligated to the Trust to remain so. Any net sales proceeds paid to the Trust are distributable to Trust unitholders for the quarter in which they are received. ECA has not identified for sale any of the Underlying Properties.
Title to Properties
The Underlying Properties are subject to certain burdens that are described in more detail below. To the extent that these burdens and obligations affect ECA's rights to production and the value of
production from the Underlying Properties, they have been taken into account in calculating the Trust's interests and in estimating the size and the value of the reserves attributable to the Royalty Interests.
ECA acquired its interests in the Underlying Properties through a variety of means, including through the acquisition of oil and gas leases by ECA directly from the mineral owner, through assignments of oil and gas leases to ECA by the lessee who originally obtained the leases from the mineral owner, through Farmout agreements that grant ECA the right to earn interests in the properties covered by such agreements by drilling wells, and through acquisitions of other oil and gas interests by ECA.
ECA's interests in the gas properties comprising the Underlying Properties are typically subject, in one degree or another, to one or more of the following:
•royalties and other burdens, express and implied, under gas leases;
•production payments and similar interests and other burdens created by ECA or its predecessors in title;
•a variety of contractual obligations arising under operating agreements, Farmout agreements, production sales contracts and other agreements that may affect the properties or their titles;
•liens that arise in the normal course of operations, such as those for unpaid taxes, statutory liens securing unpaid suppliers and contractors and contractual liens under operating agreements that are not yet delinquent or, if delinquent, are being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings;
•pooling, unitization and communitization agreements, declarations and orders;
•easements, restrictions, rights-of-way and other matters that commonly affect property;
•conventional rights of reassignment that obligate ECA to reassign all or part of a property to a third party if ECA intends to release or abandon such property; and
•rights reserved to or vested in the appropriate governmental agency or authority to control or regulate the Underlying Properties and the Royalty Interests therein.
ECA believes that the burdens and obligations affecting the Underlying Properties and the Royalty Interests are conventional in the industry for similar properties. ECA also believes that the burdens and obligations do not, in the aggregate, materially interfere with the use of the Underlying Properties and will not materially adversely affect the value of the Royalty Interests.
ECA believes that its title to the Underlying Properties, and the Trust's title to the Royalty Interests, is good and defensible in accordance with standards generally accepted in the oil and gas industry, subject to such exceptions as are not so material as to detract substantially from the use or value of such properties or Royalty Interests. Prior to drilling a PUD Well, ECA obtained a preliminary title review to ensure there were no obvious defects in title to the well. The conveyance related to the PUD Royalty Interest obligated ECA to conduct a more thorough title examination of the drill site tract prior to drilling any of the PUD Wells.
It is unclear under Pennsylvania law whether the Royalty Interests would be treated as real property interests. Nevertheless, ECA has recorded the conveyances of the Royalty Interests in the real property records of Pennsylvania in accordance with local recording acts. ECA also has granted to the Trust the Royalty Interest Lien to provide protection to the Trust, in the event of a bankruptcy of ECA, against the risk that the Royalty Interests were not considered real property interests.
Description of the Royalty Interests
The Royalty Interests were conveyed to the Trust by ECA by means of conveyance instruments that have been recorded in the appropriate real property records in Greene County, Pennsylvania where the gas properties to which the Underlying Properties relate are located. The PDP Royalty Interest burdens the existing working interests owned by ECA in the Producing Wells. ECA has an average working interest of approximately 93% in these wells.
The PUD Royalty Interest initially burdened 50% of all of the interests of ECA in the Marcellus Shale formation in the AMI. ECA's interests in the gas properties to which the PUD Wells relate consist of an average working interest of 100%. The conveyance related to the PUD Royalty Interest, however, provided that the proceeds from the PUD Wells would be calculated on the basis that the PUD Wells were only burdened by interests that in total would not exceed 12.5%. In the event that ECA's interest in any of the wells subject to the PUD Royalty Interest that are drilled is subject to burdens in excess of 12.5%, such burdens will be fully allocated against ECA's retained interest in such well, the net effect of which is that the Trust will receive payments with respect to the PUD Royalty Interest as if the burdens affecting the PUD Wells were in total 12.5% (proportionately reduced).
Generally, the percentage of production proceeds received by the Trust with respect to a well equals the product of (i) the percentage of proceeds to which the Trust is entitled under the terms of the conveyances (90% for the Producing Wells and 50% for the PUD Wells) multiplied by (ii) ECA's net revenue interest in the well. ECA on average owns an 81.53% net revenue interest in the Producing Wells. Therefore, the Trust is entitled to receive on average 73.37% of the proceeds of production from the Producing Wells. With respect to the PUD Wells, the conveyance related to the PUD Royalty Interest provides that the proceeds from the PUD Wells will be calculated on the basis that the underlying PUD Wells are burdened only by interests that in total would not exceed 12.5% of the revenues from such properties, regardless of whether the royalty interest owners are actually entitled to a greater percentage of revenues from such properties. As an example, assuming ECA owns a 100% working interest in a PUD Well, the applicable net revenue interest is calculated by multiplying ECA's percentage working interest in the 100% working interest well by the unburdened interest percentage (87.5%), and such well would have a minimum 87.5% net revenue interest. Accordingly, the Trust is entitled to a minimum of 43.75% of the production proceeds from the well provided in this example. To the extent ECA's working interest in a PUD Well is less than 100%, the Trust's share of proceeds would be proportionately reduced.
PDP Royalty Interest. The conveyances creating the PDP Royalty Interest entitle the Trust to receive an amount of cash for each calendar quarter equal to 90% of the proceeds (exclusive of any production or development costs but after deducting post-production costs and any applicable taxes) from the sale of estimated natural gas production attributable to the Producing Wells regardless of whether such amounts have actually been received by ECA from the purchases of the natural gas produced. Proceeds from the sale of natural gas production attributable to the Producing Wells in any calendar quarter means:
•the amount calculated based on estimated production volumes attributable to the Producing Wells;
in each case, after deducting the Trust's proportionate share of:
•any taxes levied on the severance or production of the natural gas produced from the Producing Wells and any property taxes attributable to the natural gas production attributable to the Producing Wells; and
•post-production costs, which generally consist of costs incurred to gather, compress, transport, process, treat, dehydrate and market the natural gas produced. Charges payable to ECA for such post-production costs on the Greene County Gathering System were limited to $0.52 per
MMBtu of gas gathered until ECA fulfilled its drilling obligation, after which ECA may increase the Post-Production Service Fee to the extent it is necessary to recover certain capital expenditures in the Greene County Gathering System. Additionally, the Trust is charged for the cost of fuel used in the compression process, including equivalent electricity charges in instances when electric compressors are used.
Proceeds payable to the Trust from the sale of natural gas production attributable to the Producing Wells in any calendar quarter are not subject to any deductions for any expenses attributable to exploration, drilling, development, operating, maintenance or any other costs incident to the production of natural gas production attributable to the Producing Wells, including any costs to plug and abandon a Producing Well.
PUD Royalty Interest. The conveyance creating the PUD Royalty Interest entitles the Trust to receive an amount of cash for each calendar quarter equal to 50% of the proceeds (after deducting post-production costs and any applicable taxes) from the sale of estimated natural gas production attributable to the PUD Wells regardless of whether such amounts have actually been received by ECA from the purchase of the natural gas produced. Proceeds from the sale of natural gas production, if any, attributable to the PUD Wells in any calendar quarter means:
•for any calendar quarter commencing on or after April 1, 2010, the amount calculated based on estimated production volumes attributable to the PUD Wells:
in each case after deducting the Trust's proportionate share of:
•any taxes levied on the severance or production of the natural gas produced from the PUD Wells and any property taxes attributable to the gas produced from the PUD Wells; and
•post-production costs, which generally consist of costs incurred to gather, compress, transport, process, treat, dehydrate and market the natural gas produced. Charges payable to ECA for such post-production charges on the Greene County Gathering System were limited to $0.52 per MMBtu of gas gathered until ECA has fulfilled its drilling obligation, after which ECA may increase the Post-Production Services Fee to the extent necessary to recover certain capital expenditures in the Greene County Gathering System. Additionally, the Trust is charged for the cost of fuel used in the compression process, including equivalent electricity charges in instances when electric compressors are used.
Proceeds, if any, payable to the Trust from the sale of natural gas production attributable to the PUD Wells in any calendar quarter:
•are determined on the basis that ECA's working interest with respect to the PUD Wells is not subject to burdens (landowner's royalties and other similar interests) in excess of 12.5% of the proceeds from gas production attributable to ECA's interest; and
•are be subject to any deductions for any expenses attributable to exploration, drilling, development, operating, maintenance or any other costs incident to the production of natural gas production attributable to the underlying PUD properties, including any costs to plug and abandon a well included in the underlying PUD properties.
Royalty Interest Lien
Under the laws of Pennsylvania, it is not clear that the Royalty Interests conveyed by ECA to the Trust would be treated as real property interests. Therefore, ECA has granted to the Trust a lien (the "Royalty Interest Lien") to provide protection to the Trust, exercisable in the event of a bankruptcy of ECA, against the risk that the Royalty Interests were not considered real property interests. More specifically, the Royalty Interest Lien is a lien in the Subject Interest and the Subject Gas, to the extent and only to the extent that such Subject Interest and Subject Gas pertains to Gas in, under and that
may be produced, saved or sold from the Marcellus Shale formation from the wellbore of the Producing Wells and the PUD Wells, sufficient to cause the Trust to receive a volume of Trust Gas calculated in accordance with the provisions of the conveyances of the Royalty Interests.
The Royalty Interest Lien does not include ECA's retained interest in the PUD and Producing Wells and the AMI or other interest of ECA in the AMI, and ECA has the right to lien, mortgage, sell or otherwise encumber the ECA retained interest subject to the Royalty Interest Lien.
ECA has recorded the conveyances of the Royalty Interests and a Mortgage/Fixture Filing in the real estate records of Greene County, Pennsylvania and has filed a corresponding UCC-1 Financing Statement in the Office of the Secretary of State of West Virginia and the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.
The conveyances also provide that if ECA's interest with respect to the PDP properties is greater than what was warranted to the Trust in the conveyances, ECA will have the right to offset against amounts owed to the Trust, the difference between what the Trust actually receives from PDP Royalty Interest and what the Trust should have received from the PDP Royalty Interest had ECA's interest been the amount warranted.
Additional Provisions
If a controversy arises as to the sales price of any production, then for purposes of determining gross proceeds:
•amounts withheld or placed in escrow by a purchaser are not considered to be received by the owner of the underlying property until actually collected;
•amounts received by the owner of the underlying property and promptly deposited with a nonaffiliated escrow agent will not be considered to have been received until disbursed to it by the escrow agent; and
•amounts received by the owner of the underlying property and not deposited with an escrow agent will be considered to have been received.
The Trustee is not obligated to return any cash received from the Royalty Interests. However, any overpayments made to the Trust by ECA due to adjustments to prior calculations of proceeds or otherwise will reduce future amounts payable to the Trust until ECA recovers the overpayments.
The conveyances generally permit ECA to sell, without the consent or approval of the Trust unitholders, all or any part of its interest in the Underlying Properties, if the Underlying Properties are sold, subject to and burdened by the Royalty Interests. The Trust unitholders are not entitled to any proceeds of any sale of ECA's interest in the Underlying Properties that remains subject to and burdened by the Royalty Interests. Following any such sale, the proceeds attributable to the transferred property will be calculated pursuant to the conveyances as described in this report, and paid by the purchaser or transferee to the Trust.
ECA or any transferee of an Underlying Property will have the right to abandon any well or property if it reasonably believes the well or property ceases to produce or is not capable of producing in commercially paying quantities. In making such decisions, ECA or any transferee of an Underlying Property is required under the applicable conveyance to act as a reasonably prudent operator in the AMI under the same or similar circumstances would act if it were acting with respect to its own properties, disregarding the existence of the Royalty Interests as burdens affecting such property. Upon termination of the lease, that portion of the Royalty Interests relating to the abandoned property will be extinguished.
ECA may, without the consent of the Trust unitholders, require the Trust to release Royalty Interests with an aggregate value to the Trust up to $5.0 million during any twelve month period. These releases will be made only in connection with a sale by ECA of the Underlying Properties and are conditioned upon the Trust receiving an amount equal to the fair value to the Trust of such Royalty Interests.
ECA must maintain books and records sufficient to determine the amounts payable for the Royalty Interests to the Trust. Quarterly and annually, ECA must deliver to the Trustee a statement of the computation of the proceeds for each computation period as well as quarterly drilling and production results.
Item 3.