ITEM 2. PROPERTIES.
Mountain Pass, California
Background
Molybdenum Corporation of America began rare earths mining operations at the Mountain Pass facility in 1952. Rare earths production at the Mountain Pass facility, as well as milling and separation processes, continued under Unocal Corporation, which purchased Molybdenum Corporation of America in 1977, until 1998. In 1998, most rare earths separation operations at the Mountain Pass facility were suspended, primarily due to leaks in a wastewater pipeline that transported waste salt water to evaporation ponds on the Ivanpah dry lake bed. Mining and milling operations continued until 2002 when those operations were also placed on standby due to softening prices for rare earths, a lack of additional tailings disposal capacity and delays in obtaining permits required for the new paste tailings storage facility. Unocal Corporation thereafter sold or otherwise disposed of substantially all of the mining equipment at the Mountain Pass facility (e.g., loaders, haul trucks, etc.) prior to being acquired by Chevron Corporation in 2005. Rare earths separation operations resumed at the Mountain Pass facility in 2007 when Chevron Mining Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of Chevron Corporation, reactivated a portion of the plant using stockpiled rare earth concentrates as a feedstock. Since 2007, the operation has produced a range of rare earth products, including products containing Lanthanum, Cerium, Neodymium and Praseodymium. On September 30, 2008, we acquired the Mountain Pass, California rare earths deposit and associated assets from Chevron Mining Inc. through Rare Earth Acquisitions LLC (which was later renamed Molycorp Minerals, LLC). The acquisition by us excluded certain assets and liabilities, including certain liabilities related to environmental and employment matters, that were retained by Chevron Corporation. Active mining at Mountain Pass recommenced in December of 2010, for the first time since 2002.
The Property
At the Mountain Pass facility, we own an open-pit mine containing one of the world's most fully developed rare earth elements deposit outside of China. In addition to the mine, the facility includes overburden stockpiles, a crusher and mill/flotation plant, mineral recovery plants, tailings storage areas and on-site evaporation ponds, as well as laboratory facilities to support research and development activities, offices, warehouses and support infrastructures.
Our Mountain Pass facility is located approximately 60 miles southwest of Las Vegas, Nevada near Mountain Pass, San Bernardino County, California. The facility straddles Interstate 15 and may be accessed by existing hard-surface roads, which we use to transport products to our customers using commercial vehicles. The facility consists of approximately 2,222 acres of fee land, of which approximately 809 acres are currently in use (e.g., existing buildings, infrastructure or active disturbance). The lands surrounding our Mountain Pass facility are mostly public lands managed by the Bureau of Land Management and the National Park Service. In addition to the 2,222 acres we hold in fee, we also hold 527 unpatented lode and mineral mining claims and mill sites under the provisions of The Mining Law of 1872. We acquired mineral rights for our permitted mine operations at our Mountain Pass facility with the purchase of the Mountain Pass, California rare earths deposit and associated assets from Chevron Mining Inc. in 2008. Our mineral rights, surface rights and mining claims are currently not subject to royalties or encumbrances, although we are responsible for making annual maintenance and tax payments on our unpatented mill sites and on our mining claims, and we pay taxes on our fee land. These mining claims and mill sites could provide land for mining, ancillary facilities and expansion capacity around our Mountain Pass facility.
We hold conditional use and minor use permits from the County of San Bernardino, which currently allow continued operations of our Mountain Pass facility through 2042. With the exception of certain building permits, we have secured all permits necessary to allow construction and operations at our Mountain Pass facility, including permits to operate specific facilities or operating units from the Lahontan Regional Water Quality Control Board and the Mojave Desert Air Quality Management District.
Rare Earths Reserves and Non-Reserve Deposits
The REEs deposit at our Mountain Pass facility is located within an uplifted block of Precambrian metamorphic and igneous rocks that are bounded to the south and east by basin-fill deposits in California's Ivanpah Valley. The two main groups of rocks in the Mountain Pass area are Early Proterozoic metamorphic rocks and Middle Proterozoic ultrapotassic rocks and carbonatites. The carbonatites hosts REEs mineralization and have been divided by geologists at Mountain Pass into six types:
•Bastnasite sövite (Bastnasite-barite sövite);
•Bastnasite beforsite (Bastnasite-barite) sövite;
•Bastnasite dolosövite Bastnasite-barite dolomitic sövite;
•White sövite (White bastnasite-barite sövite);
•Parisite sövite (Parisite sövite); and
•Monazitic sövite (Monazite-bearing carbonatite).
Mineralization occurs entirely within the carbonatitic portion of the currently drilled geologic sections, although grade distribution internal to this mineralized zone is variable. Higher grade zones (>10% REO by weight) tend to occur in lenses parallel to the hanging wall/foot wall contacts, both down dip and along strike. Continuity of mineralization internal to the carbonatite zone is well defined both along strike and down dip.
The currently defined zone of rare earth mineralization exhibits a strike length of approximately 2,750 ft (850 m) in a north-northwest direction. The down dip measurement of the mineralization is unknown due to limited amount of deep drill holes from surface. The true thickness of the >3.0% REO zone ranges between 15 to 250 ft (5 to 75 m).
The percentage of each rare earth material contained in the Mountain Pass facility bastnasite ore is estimated to be as follows:
SEC Guidelines
The SEC has established guidelines contained in Industry Guide 7 that set forth technical, legal and economic criteria for determining whether our ore reserves can be classified as proven and probable.
"Reserves" are defined by the SEC Industry Guide 7 as that part of a mineral deposit that could be economically and legally extracted or produced at the time of the reserve determination. SEC Industry Guide 7 divides reserves between "proven reserves" and "probable reserves," which are defined as follows:
•
"proven reserves" are reserves for which:
◦
quantity is computed from dimensions revealed in outcrops, trenches, workings or drill holes; grade and/or quality are computed from the results of detailed sampling; and
◦
the sites for inspection sampling and measurement are spaced so closely and the geologic character is so well defined that size, shape, depth and mineral content of reserves are well-established.
•
"probable reserves" are reserves for which quantity and grade and/or quality are computed from information similar to that used for proven reserves, but the sites for inspection, sampling, and measurement are farther apart or are otherwise less adequately spaced. The degree of assurance, although lower than that for proven reserves, is high enough to assume continuity between points of observation.
Methodology
Our Mountain Pass facility has been subject to drilling since the beginning of mining operations in 1952. We also maintain detailed geologic logs, on-site assay records and databases and geologic cross-sections. When estimating proven and probable reserves, however, we rely on the interpretations made during prior mining campaigns at our Mountain Pass facility, the U.S. Geological Survey and various consulting companies, including SRK Consulting (U.S.), Inc., or SRK Consulting, to identify the regional and mine area geology and hydrogeology, regional and local structure, deposit geology, current pit slope stability conditions and REE recoveries.
Proven Reserves. SRK Consulting compiled a drill hole database from prior and new drilling at our Mountain Pass facility. To be classified as proven reserves, block model blocks were estimated using a minimum of two drillholes, which are at
a maximum average distance of 50ft. The sample data for proven ore reserves consists of survey data, lithologic data and assay results.
Probable Reserves. Probable ore reserves are based on longer projections and the maximum distance between drill holes is 200 feet. Statistical modeling and the established continuity of the bastnasite ore body as determined from results of over 50 years of mining activity to date support our technical confidence in estimates of tonnage and grade over this projection distance. Where appropriate, projections for the probable ore reserve determination are constrained by any known or anticipated restrictive geologic features.
While we believe that a cut-off grade below 5.0% is economically viable, SRK Consulting decided to base the mining cut-off calculation on a grade of 5.0% REO given historical performance at the Mountain Pass mine.
The proven and probable ore reserves are then modeled as a long-term mine plan and additional factors including recoveries, metal prices, mine operating costs and capital estimates are applied to determine the overall economics of the ore reserves.
Results
We and SRK Consulting estimated proven reserves as of January 2012 of 26.3 million pounds of REO contained in 0.156 million tons of ore, with an average ore grade of 8.45%, and probable reserves of 2.91 billion pounds of REO contained in 18.267 million tons of ore, with an average ore grade of 7.98%, in each case using a cut-off grade of 5.0% REO, at our Mountain Pass mine. This compares with a previous 2010 estimate of proven reserves of 88.0 million pounds of REO contained in 0.480 million tons of ore, with an average ore grade of 9.38%, and probable reserves of 2.12 billion pounds of REO contained in 13.1 million tons of ore, with an average ore grade of 8.20%, in each case using a cut-off grade of 5.0%. The reduction in the proven reserves estimation and the increase in the probable reserves estimation, from the 2010 to the 2012 study is primarily due to the use of additional drilling data combined with the advantage of performing the new study from a deeper observation point at the bottom of the mine pit. The January 2012 reserve estimation includes an expanded pit boundary. The expansion of the ultimate pit boundary and the associated increase in the size of the overburden stockpiles will require the modification of our existing mining permits after 2021. Based on our estimated reserves and design annual production capacity of approximately 19,050 mt of REO, our expected mine life is in excess of 30 years. SRK Consulting made the following assumptions to arrive to the January 2012 estimates:
•
full mining recovery;
•
mine reserves are diluted;
•
historic cut-off grade of 5.0% REO;
•
metallurgical recovery factor of 65% for the mill facility and 90% for the chemical plant, and 94.1% oxide recovery;
•
January 4, 2012 surface topography for volume control of reserves;
•
historic three-year average commodity prices;
•
strip ratio 12.25%; and
•
rounded values to the nearest significant number.
Pricing values shown in the following table were used by SRK Consulting in the estimate of our reserves. The prices reflect a combination of three-year trailing averages for REO and metals based on information from (i) Metal-Pages, (ii) IMCOA and Roskill market studies from 2009 and (iii) alloy pricing formulas.
_______________________________________________________________________________
(1)
Prices for certain rare earth products have increased, while some have decreased from those used by SRK Consulting in its engineering study.
The prices set forth in the following table, are primarily based on information from Metal-Pages and alloy pricing formulas as of December 31, 2014.
_______________________________________________________________________________
(a)
Molycorp average market price estimates.
There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities and qualities of REO reserves and non-reserve REO deposits and costs to mine recoverable reserves, including many factors beyond our control. We will periodically evaluate our REO reserve and non-reserve REO estimates. This will typically be done in conjunction with expanded, phased drilling programs. Cores are analyzed by geologists to determine mineral types and to identify geological anomalies. Samples along the length of the core are logged and analyzed for total rare earths content, rare earths distribution and mineralogy. This data is entered into a master database and statistically analyzed. The resulting information is used to enhance the mine plan. We also gain information from blast hole cuttings. The estimates of REO reserves and non-reserve REO deposits as to both quantity and quality will also be updated to reflect new drilling or other data received. Estimates of economically recoverable REO reserves, however, necessarily depend upon a number of variable factors and assumptions, all of which may vary considerably from actual results, such as:
•
geological and mining conditions and/or effects from prior mining that may not be fully identified by available data or that may differ from experience;
•
assumptions concerning future prices of rare earth products, operating costs, mining technology improvements, development costs and reclamation costs; and
•
assumptions concerning future effects of regulation, including the issuance of required permits and taxes by governmental agencies.
Actual REO tonnage recovered from identified REO reserve and non-reserve REO deposit areas and revenues and expenditures with respect to the same may vary materially from estimates. These estimates may not accurately reflect our actual REO reserves or non-reserve REO deposits. Any inaccuracy in our estimates related to our REO reserves and non-reserve REO deposits could result in lower than expected revenues and higher than expected costs.
The following table reconciles our proven and probable reserves over the three-year period ended December 31, 2014:
Annual Production Data
From January 1, 2012 through June 25, 2012, 100% of production was also from historical stockpiled material; from June 26, 2012 through July 30, 2012, 91.7% came from stockpiled material and 8.3% from new material; from July 31, 2012 through September, 27, 2012, 50% came from stockpiled material and 50% from new material; and from September 28, 2012 through December 31, 2012, 100% came from new material.
The new flotation plant, which was commissioned in the second quarter of 2012, had a recovery rate of approximately 47% in 2012, 50.2% in 2013 and 48.8% in 2014. The 2012 recovery rate represents start-up conditions.
The following table presents statistics for our mining through flotation processes for the three-year period ended December 31, 2014. Tonnages are accurate to within + or - 5% for all stockpile surveys and belt scale totalizers.
Molycorp Silmet
Our Molycorp Silmet facility consists of various manufacturing, research and administration buildings located on 67 acres of land in Estonia, approximately 200 kilometers from Tallinn, the Estonian capital. At Molycorp Silmet, we transform REEs into rare earth products and have a longstanding experience in the manufacturing of Niobium and Tantalum rare metal products. As of December 31, 2014, we have the capacity to produce up to 3,000 mt of rare earth products and up to 700 mt of rare metals per year. The main equipment we utilize for our production at Molycorp Silmet include electron beam furnaces, shaft furnaces for aluminothermy reduction, rotary tube furnaces, REO and rare metals solvent extraction lines, and various precipitation tanks. Molycorp Silmet is certified in ISO 9001:2000, ISO 14001:2004 and OHSAS 18001. In January 2014, our Molycorp Silmet facility received a certification by the EICC that its purchases of Tantalum comply with the CFS program assessment protocol through July 2015. Molycorp Silmet is also a member of iTRi’s iTSCi initiative for the responsible purchasing of non-conflict raw materials.
MMA
The MMA facility includes various manufacturing, research, and administration buildings situated on seven acres of land in Tolleson, Arizona, which is just south of Interstate 10 about 15 miles west of Phoenix, Arizona's Sky Harbor Airport. At our MMA facility, we utilize vacuum induction melting furnaces to produce a wide variety of rare earth alloys, complex custom-made alloys, and non-rare earth products containing exotic alloys, such as Ni-based and Co-based superalloys and experimental binary and ternary alloys for universities and governmental agencies. Our MMA facility has the installed capacity to produce approximately 1,350 tons of ingot cast alloys and 750 tons of strip cast alloys per year. MMA is ISO 9001:2008, ISO 14001:2004 and OHSAS 18001 certified.
Molycorp Magnequench (Tianjin)
Molycorp Magnequench (Tianjin) Co., Ltd., or MQTJ, is a magnetic powder manufacturing and alloy production plant situated on approximately 15 acres of land about 90 kilometers south-east of Beijing. The magnetic powder manufacturing facility utilizes 12 proprietary, highly sophisticated meltspinning machines, or jet casters. The MQTJ facility is ISO/TS16949:2009, ISO 9001:2008, ISO 14001:2004, ISO/IEC 27001, OHSAS18001:2007 and QC080000:2005 certified.
Molycorp Magnequench (Korat)
Molycorp Magnequench (Korat) Co. Ltd., or MQK, is a magnetic powder and alloy manufacturing facility situated on approximately six acres of land about 250 kilometers northeast of Bangkok. In 2006, the facility changed its name from Advanced Magnetic Materials (Thailand) Co., Ltd. , or AMMT, to Magnequench (Korat) Co., Ltd. Prior to the AMR-Magnequench merger in 2005, this facility manufactured magnetic powders using a process that was similar but not identical to that used by MQTJ. Subsequent to the AMR-Magnequench merger, it was determined that this facility be retrofitted to produce magnetic powder of the same specifications as MQTJ. The retrofit, involving the replacement of existing jet casters at MQK with Magnequench jet casters, was completed in early 2007 and commercial production commenced. The MQK facility is ISO 9001:2008, ISO 14001:2004, OHSAS18001:2007, IECQ HSPM QC 080000:2012, and Underwriters Laboratories, or UL, Product RoHS certified. MQK plans to be certified for ISO5001:2011 in 2015 and ISO/TS16949:2009 in 2016.
Molycorp Zibo
Our Molycorp Zibo facility is a rare earths and zirconium processing plant located approximately 21 kilometers from the center of Zibo, an industrial center in Shandong Province, China. The plant site consists of 18 buildings on 15 acres. Molycorp Zibo refines a light mixed rare earth carbonates and/or chloride feed, manufactures light rare earths of high purity, and produces a line of high quality zirconium products and mixed oxides. Molycorp Zibo has received certifications in: ISO9001:2008, ISO14001:2004 and OHSAS18001:2007.
Molycorp Jiangyin
Our Molycorp Jiangyin facility is a rare earths processing plant, located approximately 150 kilometers from Shanghai, in the city of Jiangyin, Jiangsu Province, China. The plant consists of 25 buildings on approximately 20 acres. Molycorp Jiangyin refines ion adsorption clay concentrates to produce a range of heavy rare earth products which are sold to customers in high-tech industries in international and Chinese markets, which manufacture products such as permanent magnets, electronic components, display phosphors and optical glass. Molycorp Jiangyin received certifications for ISO 9001:2008, ISO14001:2004 and OHSAS18001:2007.
Molycorp Peterborough
Located in Peterborough, Ontario, Canada approximately 140 kilometers northeast of Toronto, the plant site consists of one building on approximately 1.7 acres. The plant is a hydrometallurgical plant recovering Gallium and Indium rare metals from low grade manufacturers waste and residue.
Molycorp Blanding
Located in Blanding, Utah, approximately 500 kilometers southeast of Salt Lake City and accessible by highway, the plant site consists of three buildings on approximately 40 acres. Here, furnace technology is utilized to recover Gallium from high purity Gallium arsenide scrap. Purities for this secondary Gallium rare metal are in the 4N to 8N range. The facility also: (i) upgrades primary gallium from various global producers into the 6N to 8N purity range; (ii) produces Gallium nitrate and; (iii) produces Gallium oxide. It is ISO9001:2000 certified and completed a surveillance audit in January 2010 meeting its ISO 9001:2008 qualifications.
Molycorp Rare Metals Oklahoma
Located in Quapaw, Oklahoma, the plant site consists of three buildings on five acres of land. The facility, formerly known as Gallium Compounds, is recognized as a leading manufacturer of Gallium tri-chloride. We own 80 percent of this production facility with the remaining 20 percent owned by the founders of Gallium Compounds.
Molycorp Hyeongok
Located in the Hyeongok Industrial Zone, this is our Gallium tri-chloride production facility located in the Republic of Korea. This manufacturing facility is strategically situated in the heartland of Korea’s booming LED industry. This plant supplies Asian markets as well as serves as a back-up for the plant located in Quapaw, Oklahoma.
Buss & Buss Facility
Located in Sagard, Germany and approximately 300 kilometers north of Berlin, Germany, this joint venture facility recycles Tantalum scrap using primarily a pyrometallurgical process to produce Tantalum metal. This plant also recycles rhenium from superalloys, producing both catalyst grade and high purity Rhenium metal pellets. The plant site consists of two attached buildings on approximately 1.1 acres. We own 50.1% of the joint venture that owns this facility, with the remainder owned by one of the founders.
Corporate Offices
We lease the office space for our corporate offices in Greenwood Village, Colorado, Toronto - Ontario, Canada and Beijing, China. Those leases expire in November 2016, August 2017 and July 2015, respectively, all subject to renewal options.
ITEM 3.