ITEM 2. PROPERTIES.
Our Molycorp Mountain Pass Facility
At the Molycorp Mountain Pass facility, we own an open-pit mine containing one of the world's most fully developed rare earth deposits outside of China. In addition to the mine, our Molycorp Mountain Pass facility includes associated crushing, milling, flotation and separation facilities. These facilities are not currently in full operation, and are being modernized or refurbished in connection with Project Phoenix Phase 1 and Project Phoenix Phase 2. Our Molycorp Mountain Pass facility is located approximately 60 miles southwest of Las Vegas, Nevada near Mountain Pass, San Bernardino County, California. Our Molycorp Mountain Pass facility straddles Interstate 15 and may be accessed by existing hard-surface roads, which we use to transport products from our Molycorp Mountain Pass facility to our customers using commercial vehicles.
Molybdenum Corporation of America began REO mining operations at the Molycorp Mountain Pass facility in 1952. REO production at the Molycorp Mountain Pass facility, as well as milling and separation processes, continued under Unocal Corporation, which purchased Molybdenum Corporation of America in 1977, until 1998. In 1998, most rare earth separation operations were suspended, primarily due to leaks in a wastewater pipeline that transported waste salt water to evaporation ponds on the Ivanpah dry lake bed. Mining and milling operations continued until 2002 when those operations were also placed on standby due to softening prices for REOs, a lack of additional tailings disposal capacity and delays in obtaining permits required for the new paste tailings storage facility. Unocal Corporation thereafter sold or otherwise disposed of substantially all of the mining equipment at the Molycorp Mountain Pass facility (e.g., shovels, haul trucks, etc.) prior to being acquired by Chevron Corporation in 2005. Rare earth separation operations resumed in 2007 when Chevron Mining Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of Chevron Corporation, reactivated a portion of the plant using stockpiled rare earth concentrates as a feedstock. Since 2007, the operation has produced lanthanum, cerium and mixed neodymium and praseodymium products. On September 30, 2008, we acquired the Mountain Pass, California rare earth deposit and associated assets from Chevron Mining Inc. through Rare Earth Acquisitions LLC (which was later renamed Molycorp Minerals, LLC). The acquisition by us excluded certain assets and liabilities, including certain liabilities related to environmental and employment matters, that were retained by Chevron Corporation.
We hold conditional and minor use permits from the County of San Bernardino, along with an approved mine reclamation plan, which allow continued operations of our Molycorp Mountain Pass facility through 2042. Since our acquisition of the Molycorp Mountain Pass facility in 2008, we have processed and sold approximately 5,100 mt of REOs from stockpiled feedstocks.
We recommenced mining operations in December 2010 and are preparing to recommence milling operations, which we expect to occur early in 2012, although there can be no assurance.
Our Molycorp Mountain Pass facility consists of approximately 2,222 acres of fee land, of which approximately 805 acres are currently in use (e.g., existing buildings, infrastructure or active disturbance). The lands surrounding our Molycorp Mountain Pass facility are mostly public lands managed by the Bureau of Land Management and the National Park Service. In addition to the 2,222 acres we hold in fee, we also hold 489 unpatented lode and mineral mining claims and mill sites under the provisions of The Mining Law of 1872. We acquired our mineral rights at our Molycorp Mountain Pass facility with the purchase of the Mountain Pass, California rare earth deposit and associated assets from Chevron Mining Inc. in 2008. Our mineral rights, surface rights and mining claims are not subject to royalties or encumbrances, although we are responsible for making annual maintenance and tax payments on our unpatented mill sites. These mining claims and mill sites could provide land for mining, ancillary facilities and expansion capacity around our Molycorp Mountain Pass facility.
Our Molycorp Mountain Pass facility includes an open-pit mine, overburden stockpiles, a crusher and mill/flotation plant, a separation plant, a mineral recovery plant tailings storage areas and on-site evaporation ponds, as well as laboratory facilities to support research and development activities, offices, warehouses and support buildings. The majority of the physical plant and equipment we acquired at Molycorp Mountain Pass is over 20 years old, substantially all of which is being replaced as part of Project Phoenix Phase 1 and Project Phoenix Phase 2. We expect to expand the open-pit mine both laterally to the west, southwest and north as well as deepening vertically. Overburden stockpiles have been designed and permitted to the west and north of the mining operation, and will provide storage capacity sufficient to accommodate the remaining overburden material for the existing permitted life of the mine.
In connection with Project Phoenix Phase 1 and Project Phoenix Phase 2, we are building new facilities, including the construction of a control lab, additional warehousing and raw material storage facilities. We also have decided to build a new mill instead of refurbishing our existing mill. The new mill will be sized for daily production of up to 2,000 mt. All the new design changes are allowed under our current operating permits. We are also building a new paste tailings operation and new roads at our Molycorp Mountain Pass facility. The construction of the paste tailings operation, which consists of a paste tailings filter plant and paste tailings storage facility, is authorized by our San Bernardino County conditional use permit and an operating permit issued by the Lahontan Regional Water Quality Control Board, and we began its construction during the second quarter of 2010. Although the operating cost of the paste tailings operation is expected to be greater than it would be for a conventional tailings pond, which is the method prior owners used at the Molycorp Mountain Pass facility, we expect that the increased water recycling and reduced environmental risks associated with the paste tailings facility will ultimately mitigate that additional cost.
The total cost of the property, plant and equipment at our Molycorp Mountain Pass facility, net of applicable accumulated amortization and depreciation, as of December 31, 2011 was $465.1 million.
Following the completion of Project Phoenix Phase 1, we expect to have the ability to mine, crush, mill and separate 2,000 tons of rare earth ore per day to produce individual REOs that meet or exceed industry standards for purity.
Our facilities currently rely on electricity provided by Southern California Edison. Due to its position on the regional electric grid, our Molycorp Mountain Pass facility can experience power shortages during peak periods. Instability in electrical supply in past years has caused sporadic outages and brownouts. Such outages and brownouts have had a negative impact on our production. In connection with our initial modernization and expansion efforts at the Molycorp Mountain Pass facility, we are building a new 24 megawatt co-generation power plant that will use natural gas to provide
reliable electricity and steam to our facilities to allow us to achieve our anticipated annual production rate of approximately 19,050 mt of REO. The completion of the co-generation power plant is dependent on several factors, including obtaining the permits required to build and operate the co-generation power plant. Following the completion of the co-generation power plant, we expect it to provide 100% of our production power requirements to achieve an annual production rate of 19,050 mt of REO and 83% of our overall power requirements. In connection with Project Phoenix Phase 2, we will add two additional turbines to the co-generation power plan to increase the plant's capacity to 49 megawatts, which will allow us to achieve an annual production rate of approximately 40,000 mt of REO. At an annual production rate of 40,000 mt of REO per year, we expect the co-generation power plant to provide 100% of our production power requirements and 91% of our overall power requirements.
With the exception of certain building permits and the permit requirements under Title V of the Clean Air Act, which we will need to obtain as a result of the anticipated increased emissions from the planned co-generation plant and other combustion sources at our Molycorp Mountain Pass facility, we have secured all permits necessary to allow construction and operation of Project Phoenix Phase 1 and Project Phoenix Phase 2 at our Molycorp Mountain Pass facility, including permits to operate from the Lahontan Regional Water Quality Control Board and the Mojave Desert Air Quality Management District. In connection with our planned expansion, we will be required to obtain permit modifications and additional permits for new and replacement processing facilities and utilities, including the chlor-alkali plant, and also may be required to prepare a risk management plan in connection with the presence of ammonia at the planned co-generation power plant and chlorine in certain rare earth separations units.
The REE deposit at our Molycorp Mountain Pass facility is located within an uplifted block of Precambrian metamorphic and igneous rocks that are bounded to the south and east by basin-fill deposits in California's Ivanpah Valley. The two main groups of rocks in the Mountain Pass area are Early Proterozoic high-grade metamorphic rocks and Middle Proterozoic ultrapotassic rocks and monazitic carbonatites, which carbonatites are associated with higher levels of REEs. The currently defined zone of REE mineralization exhibits a strike length of approximately 2,750 feet in a north-northwest direction and extends for approximately 7,000 feet down dip from surface. The true thickness
of the greater than 3.0% REO zone ranges from 15 feet to 250 feet. The percentage of each rare earth material contained in the Molycorp Mountain Pass facility bastnasite ore is estimated to be as follows:
Rare Earth Reserves and Non-Reserve Deposits
As of February 6, 2010, SRK Consulting, an independent consulting firm that we retained to assess our reserves, estimated total proven reserves of 88.0 million pounds of REO contained in 0.480 million tons of ore, with an average ore grade of 9.38%, and probable reserves based on historic and estimated recoveries of 2.12 billion pounds of REO contained in 13.108 million tons of ore, with an average ore grade of 8.20%, in each case using a cut-off grade of 5.0% REO. As a result of increased REE prices during the three-year period ended December 31, 2011, the estimated economic cut-off grade for the deposit is less than the 5% cut-off grade initially applied by SRK Consulting. In addition to REE pricing, the cut-off grade calculation includes other technical inputs such as process recovery and operating cost information. Our ongoing testing effort during 2012 will finalize the operating cost estimate for oxide production. Following completion of the operating cost review, updated process costs and recoveries will be reflected in the proven and probable reserve statement. Accordingly, as of December 31, 2011, our estimated proven and probable reserves remain 88.0 million pounds of REO and 2.12 billion pounds of REO, respectively. As of December 31, 2011, we began mining of fresh ore for use in the new plant, below the de minimis amount that would require accounting for the depletion of our mineral reserve.
SEC Guidelines
The SEC has established guidelines contained in Industry Guide 7 that set forth technical, legal and economic criteria for determining whether our ore reserves can be classified as proven and probable.
"Reserves" are defined by the SEC Industry Guide 7 as that part of a mineral deposit that could be economically and legally extracted or produced at the time of the reserve determination. SEC Industry Guide 7 divides reserves between "proven reserves" and "probable reserves," which are defined as follows:
•"proven reserves" are reserves for which:
•quantity is computed from dimensions revealed in outcrops, trenches, workings or drill holes; grade and/or quality are computed from the results of detailed sampling; and
•the sites for inspection sampling and measurement are spaced so closely and the geologic character is so well defined that size, shape, depth and mineral content of reserves are well-established.
•"probable reserves" are reserves for which quantity and grade and/or quality are computed from information similar to that used for proven reserves, but the sites for inspection, sampling, and measurement are farther apart or are otherwise less adequately spaced. The degree of assurance, although lower than that for proven reserves, is high enough to assume continuity between points of observation.
Methodology
Our Molycorp Mountain Pass facility has been subject to extensive drilling since the beginning of mining operations in 1952. We also maintain detailed geologic logs, on-site assay records and databases and geologic cross-sections. In addition, we have recently expanded our on-site exploratory drilling program to confirm the existence and extent of bastnasite, monazite and other rare earth phosphate mineral occurrences in unexplored areas of our Molycorp Mountain Pass facility. When estimating proven and probable reserves, however, we rely on the interpretations made during prior mining campaigns at our Molycorp Mountain Pass facility, the U.S. Geological Survey and various consulting companies, including SRK Consulting, to identify the regional and mine area geology and hydrogeology, regional and local structure, deposit geology, current pit slope stability conditions and REE recoveries.
Proven Reserves. SRK Consulting compiled a drill hole database from prior drilling at our Molycorp Mountain Pass facility. The majority of core samples in the deposit area analyzed by SRK Consulting range from 50 feet to 250 feet along the strike of the ore body and 150 feet to 350 feet down dip. The sample data for proven ore reserves consists of survey data, lithologic data and assay results.
Probable Reserves. Probable ore reserves are based on longer projections and the maximum distance between drill holes is 200 feet. Statistical modeling and the established continuity of the bastnasite ore body as determined from results of over 50 years of mining activity to date support our technical confidence in estimates of tonnage and grade over this projection distance. Where appropriate, projections for the probable ore reserve determination are constrained by any known or anticipated restrictive geologic features.
While we believe that a cut-off grade below 5.0% is economically viable, SRK Consulting decided to base the mining cut-off calculation on a grade of 5.0% REO given historical performance at the Molycorp Mountain Pass mine.
The proven and probable ore reserves are then modeled as a long-term mine plan and additional factors including recoveries, metal prices, mine operating costs and capital estimates are applied to determine the overall economics of the ore reserves.
Results
Proven and probable reserves at the Molycorp Mountain Pass facility as of December 31, 2011 are estimated to be approximately 88.0 million pounds of REO contained in 0.480 million tons of ore, with an average ore grade of 9.38%, and 2.12 billion pounds of REO contained in 13.108 million tons of ore, with an average ore grade of 8.20%, respectively, in each case, using a cut-off grade of 5.0%. We base our REO reserve estimates and non-reserve REO deposit information on engineering, economic and geological data assembled and analyzed by SRK Consulting, which includes various engineers and geologists. Our estimates of REO reserves and non-reserve REO deposits as to both quantity and quality will be regularly updated to reflect new drilling or other data received.
The following table provides information as of February 6, 2010 on the amount of our proven and probable REO reserves, which was used to calculate our estimated proven and probable reserves as of December 31, 2011.
In making the estimate above, SRK Consulting:
•assumed we have a 100% working interest in the Molycorp Mountain Pass facility;
•assumed full mining recovery;
•assumed that mine reserves are fully diluted;
•assumed a historic cut-off grade of 5.0% REO within the pit design;
•assumed a metallurgical recovery factor of 65% for the mill facility and 93% for the extraction and separation facilities;
•used the 1997 surface topography for volume control of reserves;
•used the historic three-year average commodity prices set forth in table below; and
•rounded values to the nearest significant number.
Pricing values shown in the following table were used by SRK Consulting in the estimate of our reserves. The prices reflect a combination of three-year trailing averages for REOs and metals based on information from (i) Metal-Pages, (ii) IMCOA and Roskill market studies from 2009 and (iii) alloy pricing formulas
(1)Prices for certain rare earth products have increased from those used by SRK Consulting in its engineering study. The prices set forth in the following table, are primarily based on information from Metal-Pages and alloy pricing formulas as of December 31, 2011.
(a)Molycorp market price estimates
Although SRK Consulting assumed pricing levels consistent with those estimated by Roskill, a 38% decrease in average REE prices from such levels, holding all other variables constant, would not materially reduce reserve estimates.
There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities and qualities of REO reserves and non-reserve REO deposits and costs to mine recoverable reserves, including many factors beyond our control. We will regularly evaluate our REO reserve and non-reserve REO estimates. This will typically be done in conjunction with expanded, phased drilling programs. Cores are analyzed by geologists to determine mineral types and to identify geological anomalies. Samples along the length of the core are logged and analyzed for total rare earth content, rare earth distribution and mineralogy. This data is entered into a master database and statistically analyzed. The resulting information is used to enhance the mine plan. We also gain information from blast hole cuttings. The estimates of REO reserves and non-reserve REO deposits as to both quantity and quality will also be updated to reflect new drilling or other data received. Estimates of economically recoverable REO reserves, however, necessarily depend upon a number of variable factors and assumptions, all of which may vary considerably from actual results, such as:
•geological and mining conditions and/or effects from prior mining that may not be fully identified by available data or that may differ from experience;
•assumptions concerning future prices of rare earth products, operating costs, mining technology improvements, development costs and reclamation costs; and
•assumptions concerning future effects of regulation, including the issuance of required permits and taxes by governmental agencies.
Actual REO tonnage recovered from identified REO reserve and non-reserve REO deposit areas and revenues and expenditures with respect to the same may vary materially from estimates. These estimates may not accurately reflect our actual REO reserves or non-reserve REO deposits. Any inaccuracy in our estimates related to our REO reserves and non-reserve REO deposits could result in lower than expected revenues and higher than expected costs.
Engineering Study
SRK Consulting prepared an engineering study to determine, among other things, the size of the underlying ore body and a mine plan for the restart of the Molycorp Mountain Pass mine and the refurbishment of the processing facilities in connection with Project Phoenix Phase 1. As originally envisioned, the restart plan includes integrated off-site facilities for production of metals and rare earth magnet alloys. SRK Consulting designed the mine plan to ensure an annual production rate of approximately 19,050 mt of REO.
Subsequent to the original engineering study, we proceeded with additional detailed engineering and process testwork for the project. While substantive elements of the engineering design remain fixed in terms of function, our ongoing testing effort during 2012 will finalize the operating cost estimate for oxide production. Following completion of the operating cost review, updated process costs and recoveries will be reflected in the proven and probable reserve statement. At the present time, as a result of increased REE prices, the estimated economic cut-off grade for the deposit is less than the 5% cut-off grade applied by SRK Consulting. Due to the differential between the estimated economic cut-off grade and 5.0% "hard" cut-off grade, there is a margin for operating cost variation without a material adjustment in the proven and probable reserve estimate.
We approved the following changes to the original engineering study. These changes are provided for clarity and do not have a material impact on the proven and probable reserve estimate:
•We conducted additional drilling and exploration work between December 2009 and April 2010 with a primary focus on in-fill drilling and a secondary focus on condemnation. We plan to conduct additional drilling and exploration work in 2012.
•We are constructing a new mill, rather than refurbishing the existing mill prior to the start of full-scale production. With this change, SRK Consulting revised the mine plan to reflect improved access to ore in the southwest and south portion of the open pit. Fundamental production criteria remained unchanged (e.g., 5.0% REO cut-off grade, 19,050 mt REO per year, and overall recovery of 60%); therefore, there is no material change in the mine production schedule.
•We changed the location of the extraction and separations facilities, as well as related infrastructure, from the northwest portion of our property to immediately southeast of the existing process facilities. While the location of these facilities has changed, the production process has not.
•Project planning during the development phase will be performed by us and Eichleay Engineers of California, a consulting firm specializing in project delivery.
We will authorize SRK Consulting to revise the engineering study and to make material adjustments, if any, to the reserve statement following completion of the updated operating cost review and testwork related to process recoveries.
SRK Consulting prepared its engineering study in connection with Project Phoenix Phase 1, but has not yet reviewed Project Phoenix Phase 2 or prepared a revised engineering study to reflect and potential impact of Project Phoenix Phase 2 on capital costs, operating expenses, mine life or reserve estimates. SRK Consulting has preliminarily indicated, however, that doubling the amount of production pursuant to Project Phoenix Phase 2 would reduce the current mine life by half, assuming no additional exploration, no realization of anticipated improvements in recoveries, and all other factors such as cut-off grade remain constant.
Our Molycorp Sillamäe Facility
Our Molycorp Sillamäe facility consists of various manufacturing, research and administration buildings located on 67 acres of land at 2 Kesk Street, Sillamäe, Estonia, 200 kilometers from Tallinn, the Estonian capital. The property is held in fee and is not subject to any major encumbrances or restrictions. At our Molycorp Sillamäe facility, we transform REE's into rare earth oxides and rare earth metals and, as of December 31, 2011, have the capacity to produce 3,000 mt of REO equivalent products per year. At Molycorp Sillamäe we also have a longstanding experience in the manufacturing of niobium and tantalum rare metals. The main equipment we utilized for our production at Molycorp Sillamäe include electron beam furnaces, vacuum induction melting furnaces, shaft furnaces for aluminothermy reduction, rotary tube furnaces, REOs and rare metals solvent extraction lines, and various precipitation tanks.
Our Molycorp Tolleson Facility
Our Molycorp Tolleson facility includes various manufacturing, research, and administration buildings situated on seven acres of land at 8220 West Harrison Street, Tolleson, Arizona, which is just south of Interstate 10 about 15 miles west of Phoenix, Arizona's Sky Harbor Airport. The property is held in fee and is not subject to any major encumbrances or restrictions. At our Molycorp Tolleson facility, we utilize vacuum induction melting furnaces to produce a wide variety of rare earth alloys, complex custom-made alloys, and non-rare earth products containing exotic alloys, such as Ni-based
and Co-based superalloys and experimental binary and ternary alloys for universities and governmental agencies. As of December 31, 2011, our Molycorp Tolleson facility has the installed capacity to produce approximately 1,350 tons of ingot cast alloys and 750 tons of strip cast alloys per year.
Corporate Headquarters
We also lease our executive office space at 5619 Denver Tech Center Parkway, Greenwood Village, Colorado. The leases for Suite 1000, Suite 1005, Suite 1100 and Suite 1150 expire November 2016, subject to renewal options.
ITEM 3.