Item 2.
Properties
Our property consists of office space located at 7695 SW 104th St., Suite 210, Miami, FL 33156. We use such space for no charge to our company from Irma Colon-Alonso. Currently, this space is sufficient to meet our needs; however, once we expand our business to a significant degree, we will have to find a larger space. We do not currently own any real estate.
On May 12, 2011, our company entered into a Participation Agreement (the "Buckeye Participation Agreement") with Buckeye Exploration Company ("Buckeye"). Pursuant to the terms and conditions of the Buckeye Participation Agreement, our company purchased a six percent (6%) working interest (the “Helen Working Interest”) in that certain well, known as the Helen Morrison #1 Well, which is located in the Southwest Otoe Prospect in Noble County, Oklahoma. In exchange for the Helen Working Interest, our company paid a purchase price of thirty two thousand six hundred seventy dollars ($32,670) to Buckeye.
On May 31, 2011, our company, entered into a Participation Agreement (the "Premier Participation Agreement") with Premier Operating Company ("Premier"). Pursuant to the terms and conditions of the Premier Participation Agreement, our company purchased a one percent (1%) working interest (the “Marlow Working Interest”) in that certain West Marlow Hoxbar Unit located in Stephens County, Oklahoma. In exchange for the Marlow Working Interest, our company paid a purchase price of forty nine thousand five hundred dollars ($49,500) to Premier.
Helen Morrison #1 Well - Noble County, Oklahoma
On May 12, 2011, our company entered into a Participation Agreement (the "Buckeye Participation Agreement") with Buckeye Exploration Company ("Buckeye"). Pursuant to the terms and conditions of the Buckeye Participation Agreement, our company purchased a six percent (6%) working interest in that certain well, known as the Helen Morrison #1 Well (the “Helen Well”), which is located in the Southwest Otoe Prospect in Noble County, Oklahoma. In exchange for the working interest, our company paid a purchase price of thirty two thousand six hundred seventy dollars ($32,670) to Buckeye. In addition, the Buckeye Participation Agreement provides that our company shall have the right of first refusal to purchase the same percentage working interest, or more, in any subsequent off-set wells, if any additional interests in the Southwest Otoe Prospect become available in the future.
Buckeye shall serve as the operator of the Helen Well and we will share a portion of the ongoing costs of its exploration and development, in a proportion equal to our working interest. According to Buckeye’s Operating Agreement, Buckeye shall commence drilling of the Helen Well on May 16, 2011 and shall continue the drilling of the well to a total depth of 5,000 +/- feet.
Location of the Helen Well
The Helen Well is situated in S/2 NW/4 and SW/4 of Section 24, Township 22 North, Range 1 West of Noble County, Oklahoma.
The above photograph is a picture of the Helen Well.
Drilling Operations on the Helen Well
On June 28, 2011, drilling of the Helen Well commenced and the well was drilled to a total depth of 309 feet.
On June 29, 2011, the well was drilled to a total depth of 1,757 feet, the pump pressure was 600 pounds per square inch (PSI), and the drill revolutions per minute (RPM) was 100. At 1,757 feet deep, a deviation survey was conducted and the deviation measured at 1 ¾ degrees off vertical. The total drill weight was approximately 24,000 - 26,000 lbs.
On June 30, 2011, the well was drilled to a total depth of 3,031 feet, with a maximum pump pressure and drill RPM of 800 PSI and 100, respectively. A deviation survey at this depth revealed a deviation measurement of 1 degree off vertical. The total drill weight was approximately 18,000 - 20,000 lbs.
On July 1, 2011, the well was drilled to a total depth of 3,654 feet, with a maximum pump pressure and drill RPM of 900 PSI and 80, respectively. The total drill weight was approximately 28,000 - 30,000 lbs. The total dead weight of drill string in the ground was 90,000 lbs.
On July 2, 2011, the well was drilled to a total depth of 4,200 feet, with a maximum pump pressure and drill RPM of 900 PSI and 65, respectively. The total drill weight was approximately 32,000 - 36,000 lbs. The total dead weight of drill string in the ground was 97,000 lbs. The mud weight was at 9.2+ and the viscosity was 41.
On July 3, 2011, the well was drilled to a total depth of 4,350 feet. Drilling continued thereafter at a slowed rate.
On July 4, 2011, drilling continued at a slowed rate and the well was drilled to a total depth of 4,720 feet.
Buckeye’s Geological Report dated July 12, 2011 - Drilling Summary of Helen Well
Buckeye prepared a Geological Report, dated July 12, 2011, of the drilling activities on the Helen Well, summarized as follows:
The Helen Well was drilled over a ten (10) day period that consisted of very hot and dry weather. The actual drilling, along with all phases of the operation, went relatively smooth without any unforeseen surprises. The results of Buckeye’s findings from the drilling were generally consistent with their original predictions.
Most notably, the highly anticipated Mississippi Reef formation inside of the Helen Well was present in its entirety in the expected structural position. Buckeye anticipates perforating the entire forty-four (44) feet of gross thickness of the Mississippi in which all of the best samples of oil shows occurred. The bottom thirty (30) feet of the formation appeared to have the best porosity and permeability. The bottom section is expected to produce the most oil, due to those findings. Water saturation for the entire forty-four (44) feet of the zone was surprisingly low.
The Avant Lime, found at (3,189) feet below the surface, and the Middle Oswego Lime formation, drilled in at (4,186) feet below the surface, each have a history of natural gas production in the immediate East Polo Field area. However, these natural gas zones, which are secondary in nature to the Mississippi, were not tested at that time. Buckeye intends to explore the oil rich zones for production now while the oil prices are at such a premium and natural gas prices are consistently lagging behind. Further, Buckeye intends to promptly begin the completion process on the Mississippi Reef (4,742’ to 4,786’) below surface, with forty four (44) net feet of perforations.
West Marlow Hoxbar Unit - Stephens County, Oklahoma
On May 31, 2011, our company entered into a Participation Agreement (the "Premier Participation Agreement") with Premier Operating Company ("Premier"). Pursuant to the terms and conditions of the Premier Participation Agreement, our company shall purchase a one percent (1%) working interest in that certain West Marlow Hoxbar Unit (the “West Marlow Hoxbar Unit”) located in Stephens County, Oklahoma. In exchange for the working interest, our company shall pay a purchase price of forty nine thousand five hundred dollars ($49,500) to Premier. Premier shall serve as the operator of the West Marlow Hoxbar Unit and we will share a portion of the ongoing costs of its exploration and development, in a proportion equal to our working interest.
Location of the West Marlow Hoxbar Unit
The West Marlow Hoxbar Unit is located in Sections 16, 17, 20 and 21 of Township 2 North, Range 8 West of Stephens County, Oklahoma.
The above photograph is a picture of the West Marlow Hoxbar Unit.
Drilling Operations on the West Marlow Hoxbar Unit
As of the date of this Report, we do not have any data on the drilling operations on the West Marlow Hoxbar Unit.
Principal Products and Services
We are currently an exploration stage company focused on the acquisition, development and production of oil and gas properties. We do not currently offer any products or services for sale.
Patents, Trademarks and Licenses, Franchises, Concessions, Royalty Agreements or Labor Contracts
We presently do not utilize patents, licenses, franchises, concessions, royalty agreements or labor contracts in connection with our business.
Future Oil and Gas Interests
If we are successful in generating revenues from our current working interests in oil and gas properties, we intend to acquire working interests in additional wells within the same project area, subject to obtaining additional financing. Our search for oil and gas leases or working interests in leases will be directed towards small and medium-sized oil and natural gas production companies and properties.
We are looking for low risk interests and properties which have the following qualities:
·
At least developmental drilling in proven producing areas;
·
High performance of other wells in the area;
·
Good geological and engineering reports;
·
Diversified package of wells to be drilled (at least two wells in the project);
·
Significant additional production capacity through developmental drilling, recompletions and workovers;
·
Further developmental potential; and
·
In some cases, ability to assume operatorship or appointment of a known operator with relevant experience in the area.
The Oil and Gas Industry
The United States ranks as the third highest oil producing country in the world and ranks first as the country with the highest consumption of oil. The United States ranks as the second highest natural gas producing country in the world and ranks first as the country with the highest consumption of natural gas. (U.S. Energy Information Administration. 2009. Retrieved on July 22, 2011 from and publicly available at: http://www.eia.gov/countries/index.cfm?view=production).
Currently, oil and natural gas fuel more than 97 percent of America’s vehicles, whether on land, sea, or in the air. Oil and natural gas are also key components in the vast majority of all manufactured goods. Whether it’s surgical equipment, fertilizers, phones, CDs, paints or fuels, the oil and natural gas industry supports our day-to-day safety, mobility, health and lifestyle. (Energy Tomorrow. Retrieved on July 22, 2011 from and publicly available at: http://energytomorrow.org/issues/oil-and-gas-101/petroleum-products/).
Further, the demand for oil and gas is expected to significantly rise. The U.S. will require 21 percent more energy in 2035 than in 2009 with more than half of the energy demand expected to be met by oil and natural gas. Today, oil accounts for 37 percent of our energy use with the lion’s share of it fueling 94 percent of our transportation energy needs. Although ethanol and other biofuels are expected to grow rapidly in the future and steadily displace some oil use, the U.S. Energy Information Administration forecasts oil will continue to account for the largest share of our energy needs filling 33 percent of total energy demand and 85 percent of our transportation needs in 2035. (“Energizing America. Facts for Addressing Energy Policy.” energyAPI. May 2, 2011. Retrieved on July 22, 2011 from and publicly available at http://www.api.org/aboutoilgas/upload/truth_primer4.pdf.)
Future U.S. Energy Demand: The U.S. will require 21 percent more energy in 2035 than in 2009.
(Calculated in Quadrillion British Thermal Units “BTU”).
Source: “Energizing America. Facts for Addressing Energy Policy.” energyAPI. May 2, 2011.
Retrieved on July 22, 2011 from and publicly available at http://www.api.org/aboutoilgas/upload/truth_primer4.pdf.
Globally, the demand for energy has also hit all time highs and countries such as China and India are driving this demand. India and China will account for 45 percent of the increase in global primary energy demand by 2030, with both countries more than doubling their energy use over that period (“The World’s 10 Biggest Oil Consumers.” Rediff Business. March 12, 2010. Retrieved on July 22, 2011 from and publicly available at: http://business.rediff.com/slide-show/2010/mar/12/slide-show-1-worlds-10-biggest-oil-consumers.htm#contentTop). As the population density increases, the demand for oil and gas will rise. Of course, the price history of oil and gas is not one of constant increase, and every investor should be aware of this.
Recent forecasts by the U.S. Energy Information Administration estimate that sustaining a 3.2 percent rate of annual growth in the global economy from 2007 to 2035 (measured in purchasing power parity) will require an expansion of about 24.5 million barrels per day in global oil supplies. That is an increase equivalent to nearly doubling the current consumption of North America. The growth in demand for natural gas worldwide is expected to be even larger, increasing by 45 percent from 2007 to 2035. Despite significant growth of renewables and improvements in energy efficiency, more than half of the world’s energy demand will be met in 2035 by oil and natural gas, as is the case today. (“Energizing America. Facts for Addressing Energy Policy.” energyAPI. May 2, 2011. Retrieved on July 22, 2011 from and publicly available at http://www.api.org/aboutoilgas/upload/truth_primer4.pdf.)
Future Global Energy Demand: The World will require 49 percent more energy in 2035 than in 2007.
(Calculated in Quadrillion British Thermal Units “BTU”).
Source: “Energizing America. Facts for Addressing Energy Policy.” energyAPI. May 2, 2011.
Retrieved on July 22, 2011 from and publicly available at http://www.api.org/aboutoilgas/upload/truth_primer4.pdf.
There are significant risks associated with direct investing in oil and gas projects. However, we believe that direct investments in oil & gas can provide high potential returns and cash flow. There have been many new discoveries in oil and gas developmental technology, including faster drilling speeds, greater access to resources, better completion techniques and even turn-key drilling commitments for drilling deeper than 20,000 feet. Oil and gas prices are now sufficiently high enough to warrant drilling deeper and spending more money to do it. Ten or more years ago, oil drilling was very risky, largely due to the probability of hitting a dry well. However, technology has come a long way since then. The latest techniques include the use of satellite mapping and horizontal drilling. This enables producers to locate and drill more effectively, thus reducing cost.
Significant oil and gas discoveries that are announced today often result from investments begun by companies as far back as a decade or more ago. Since the year 2000, our industry invested over 2 trillion dollars in U.S. capital projects to meet the growing demand for oil and natural gas. The worldwide economic downturn, along with lower oil and natural gas prices and tight credit markets, caused some oil and natural gas producers to cut their capital budget plans in 2009. However, investments have since rebounded. (“Energizing America. Facts for Addressing Energy Policy.” energyAPI. May 2, 2011. Retrieved on July 22, 2011 from and publicly available at http://www.api.org/aboutoilgas/upload/truth_primer4.pdf.)
Competition
The oil and gas industry is highly competitive. We compete with other companies for financing and for the acquisition of new interests in oil and gas properties. Almost all of the companies with whom we compete have greater financial and technical resources than those available to us. Accordingly, these competitors may be able to spend greater amounts on acquiring interests in oil and gas properties of merit. In addition, they may be able to afford more geological and other technical expertise in the targeting of new oil and gas interests. This competition could result in competitors having working interests in oil and gas properties of greater quality and production potential.
Governmental Regulation
General
The production and sale of oil and gas is subject to regulation by federal, state, and local authorities. In most areas there are statutory provisions regulating the production of oil and natural gas, pursuant to which administrative agencies may promulgate rules in connection with the operation and production of wells, ascertain and determine the reasonable market demand of oil and gas, and adjust allowable rates of production with respect thereto.
The sale of liquid hydrocarbons was subject to federal regulation under the Energy Policy and Conservation Act of 1975, which amended various acts, including the Emergency Petroleum Allocation Act of 1973. These regulations and controls included mandatory restrictions upon the prices at which most domestic crude oil and various petroleum products could be sold. All price controls and restrictions on the sale of crude oil at the wellhead have been withdrawn. It is possible, however, that such controls may be reimposed in the future but when, if ever, such re-imposition might occur and the effect thereof cannot be predicted.
The sale of certain categories of natural gas in interstate commerce is subject to regulation under the Natural Gas Act and the Natural Gas Policy Act of 1978 (“NGPA”). Under the NGPA, a comprehensive set of statutory ceiling prices applies to all first sales of natural gas unless the gas is specifically exempt from regulation (i.e., unless the gas is “deregulated”). Administration and enforcement of the NGPA ceiling prices are delegated to the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (“FERC”). In June 1986, FERC issued Order No. 451, which, in general, is designed to provide a higher NGPA ceiling price for certain vintages of old gas. It is possible that the leaseholders of our oil and gas properties may in the future acquire significant amounts of natural gas subject to NGPA price regulations and/or FERC Order No. 451.
Legislation affecting the oil and natural gas industry is under constant review for amendment and expansion. Many departments and agencies, both federal and state, are authorized by statute to issue and have issued rules and regulations binding on the oil and natural gas industry and its individual participants. The failure to comply with such rules and regulations can result in large penalties.
The regulatory burden on this industry could increase the operating expenses of the operators of the oil and gas properties in which we have working interests and therefore, affect our profitability. However, we do not believe that these regulations will have a significant negative impact on our limited operations with respect to our oil and gas interests.
Regulation of Drilling and Production
The drilling and production operations of the oil and gas properties in which we have working interests are subject to regulation under a wide range of state and federal statutes, rules, orders and regulations. Among other matters, these statutes and regulations govern:
·
the amounts and types of substances and materials that may be released into the environment;
·
the discharge and disposition of waste materials;
·
the reclamation and abandonment of wells and facility sites; and
·
the remediation of contaminated sites.
In order to comply with these statutes and regulations, the leaseholders of the oil and gas properties in which we hold working interests were required to obtain permits for drilling operations, drilling bonds, and reports concerning operations. Failure to comply with these statutes and regulations could result in substantial fines or penalties being imposed upon the leaseholders, which in turn could negatively affect our profitability.
Environmental Regulations
The drilling and production operations of oil and gas properties are affected by various federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations, including the Oil Pollution Act of 1990, Federal Water Pollution Control Act, and Toxic Substances Control Act. The Comprehensive Environmental, Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (“CERCLA”) and comparable state statutes impose strict, joint and several liability on owners and operators of sites and on persons who dispose of or arrange for the disposal of “hazardous substances” found at such sites. It is not uncommon for neighboring land owners and other third parties to file claims for personal injury and property damage allegedly caused by hazardous substances released into the environment. The Federal Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (“RCRA”) and comparable state statutes govern the disposal of “solid waste” and “hazardous waste” and authorize the imposition of substantial fines and penalties for noncompliance. Although CERCLA currently excludes petroleum from its definition of “hazardous substance,” state laws affecting our operations may impose clean-up liability relating to petroleum and petroleum related products. In addition, although RCRA classifies certain oil field wastes as “non-hazardous,” such exploration and production wastes could be reclassified as hazardous wastes thereby making such wastes subject to more stringent handling and disposal requirements.
Generally, environmental laws and regulations govern the discharge of materials into the environment or the disposal of waste materials, or otherwise relate to the protection of the environment. In particular, the following activities are subject to stringent environmental regulations:
·
drilling;
·
development and production operations;
·
activities in connection with storage and transportation of oil and other liquid hydrocarbons; and
·
use of facilities for treating, processing or otherwise handling hydrocarbons and wastes.
Violations are subject to reporting requirements, civil penalties and criminal sanctions. Compliance with existing regulations increases the overall costs of business for the leaseholders and operators of the oil and gas properties as well as for us, as we bear a portion of these expenses. The increased costs cannot be easily determined. Such areas affected include:
·
unit production expenses primarily related to the control and limitation of air emissions and the disposal of produced water;
·
capital costs to drill exploration and development wells resulting from expenses primarily related to the management and disposal of drilling fluids and other oil and natural gas exploration wastes; and
·
capital costs to construct, maintain and upgrade equipment and facilities and remediate, plug, and abandon inactive well sites and pits.
Environmental regulations historically have been subject to frequent change by regulatory authorities. Therefore, we are unable to predict the ongoing cost of compliance with these laws and regulations or the future impact of such regulations. However, we do not believe that changes to these regulations will have a significant negative effect upon our oil and gas interests.
Employees
We have no employees, other than Douglas E. Forest, our president, chief executive officer, chief financial officer, treasurer, and director and Irma N. Colón-Alonso, our secretary and director.
Productive Wells
See below production data as at February 29, 2012:
For the fiscal year
ended
February 29, 2012
For the fiscal year
ended
February 28, 2011
Production Data:
Natural gas (Mcf)
21.4
N/A
Oil (Bbls)
42.8
N/A
Average Prices:
Natural gas (per Mcf)
$3.03
N/A
Oil (per Bbl)
$97.12
N/A
Productive Wells
The following table summarizes information at February 29, 2012, relating to the productive wells in which we owned a working interest as of that date. Productive wells consist of producing wells and wells capable of production, but specifically exclude wells drilled and cased during the fiscal year that have yet to be tested for completion (e.g., all of the operated wells drilled by our company during this year have been cased in preparation for completion, but no operations have been initiated that would allow these wells to be productive). Gross wells are the total number of producing wells in which we have an interest, and net wells are the sum of our fractional working interests in the gross wells.
Supplemental Information on Oil Producing Properties (Unaudited)
Supplemental Reserve Information
The information set forth below on our proved oil reserves is presented pursuant to the disclosure requirements of Accounting Standards Codification Topic 932 - Extractive Activities - Oil and Gas (“ASC 932”). The Company emphasizes that reserve estimates are inherently imprecise. Our reserve estimates were generally based upon extrapolation of historical production trends, analogy to similar properties and volumetric calculations. Accordingly, these estimates are expected to change and such changes could be material and occur in the near term as future information becomes available.
The Company retained the service of an independent petroleum consultant Ramsey Property Management, LLC, to estimate its proved oil reserves at February 29, 2012.
The following table sets forth a summary of changes in estimated reserves for 2012 and 2011:
Standardized Measure of Discounted Future Net Cash Flow Relating to Proved Oil Reserves
The following information has been developed utilizing procedures prescribed by ASC 932 and based on oil reserve and production volumes estimated by the Company’s independent reserve engineers. It may be useful for certain comparison purposes but should not be solely relied upon in evaluating the Company or its performance. Further, information contained in the following table should not be considered as representative of realistic assessments of future cash flows nor should the Standardized Measure of Discounted Future Net Cash Flows be viewed as representative of the current value of the Company.
The future cash flows presented below are computed by applying the average prices for the first day of the twelve months ended February 29, 2012 to year-end quantities of proved oil reserves. Future production and development costs are computed by estimating the expenditures to be incurred in producing the Company’s proved reserves based on year-end costs and assuming continuation of existing economic conditions. It is expected that material revisions to some estimates of oil and natural gas reserves may occur in the future, development and production of the reserves may occur in periods other than those assumed, and actual prices realized and costs incurred may vary significantly from those used.
Management does not rely upon the following information in making investment and operating decisions. Such decision are based upon a wide range of factors, including estimates of proved reserves, and varying price and cost assumptions are considered more representative of a range of possible economic conditions that may be anticipated.
The following table sets forth our future net cash flows relating to proved oil reserves based on the standardized measure prescribed in ASC 932:
1.
Oil revenues are based on average twelve-month prices preceding 2/29/12 ($92.23 per barrel). There is no consideration of risks associated with future production of proved reserves.
2.
Based on economic conditions at year-end, and does not include administrative, general, or financing costs.
3.
The future income tax rate for the period covered under these properties (approximately 13 years) is assumed to be zero due to tax loss carryforwards.
Changes in Standardized Measure of Discounted Future Cash Flows
The following table sets forth the principal sources of change in the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows:
Capitalized Costs Related to Oil Producing Activities
The following table sets forth the capitalized costs relating to the Company’s oil and natural gas producing activities:
Costs Incurred in Oil and Gas Property Acquisition, Exploration and Development Activities
Costs incurred in connection with crude oil and natural gas acquisition, exploration and development are as follows:
Results of Operations
The Company’s results of operations related to oil activities are set forth below. The following table includes revenues and expenses associated directly with our oil producing activities. It does not include any interest costs, general and administrative costs or provision for income taxes due to the net operating loss carry-forward, and therefore, is not necessarily indicative of the contribution to consolidated net operating results of our oil operations.
Item 3.