ITEM 2: PROPERTIES
Real Properties and Facilities
Office Building: We own a 1,850 square foot office building, purchased in August 2005, for $175,000. This building is currently used as office space. The building is located at 299 East 950 South, Orem, Utah.
Business Building: On May 22, 2008, we acquired certain real property in the Vernal, Utah, area, for use by our majority-owned subsidiary, EnShale, as office facilities. The property was purchased for $317,900 and is comprised of approximately 2,000 square feet of finished interior, with an additional 1,500 available to be finished.
Industrial Property: On March 11, 2009 we purchased an industrial parcel of real property in Vernal, Utah, which is strategically located for our planned EnShale operations and has all utilities readily available. This property is used for our oil shale demonstration and testing plant. We purchased 5.01 acres at a total price of $140,000.
Royalty Properties
Carlin Trend Royalty
Leeville Mine: This property is located in Eureka County, Nevada, Sections 1, 2, 10, 11, and 12 of Township 35 North, Range 50 East, Mount Diablo Meridian, Lynn Mining District and is accessed via improved paved roads. The property is currently being mined by Newmont, and we receive a continuing 1% gross smelter return royalty. The Leeville claims are owned by Newmont, and we retain a royalty interest. The total claim responsibility for these claims lies with Newmont. Reserve estimates on this property, according to data published by Newmont are 2.9 million ounces.
Bullion Monarch Mining has claimed that this 1% royalty as defined in the May 10, 1979, Leeville/East Ore Mine Agreement also applies to an area of interest that contains the Sections and Townships listed below approximately encompassing the area eight (8) miles in a northerly direction, eight (8) miles in a southerly direction, eight (8) miles in an easterly direction and eight (8) miles in a westerly direction from Section 10, Township 35 North, Range 50 East, M.D.B. & M., Eureka County, Nevada. See Part I, Item 3, regarding our litigation with Newmont and Barrick Gold Strike. We believe the following accurately describes this area of interest, more or less.
Township 34 North, Range 49 East Sections 1-5, 8-17, and 20-24
Township 35 North, Range 49 East Sections 1-5, 8-17, and 32-36
Township 36 North, Range 49 East Sections 1-5, 8-17, 20-29 and 32-36
Township 37 North, Range 49 East Sections 32-36
Township 34 North, Range 50 East Sections 1-24
Township 35 North, Range 50 East Sections All
Township 36 North, Range 50 East Sections All
Township 37 North, Range 50 East Sections 31-36
Township 34 North, Range 51 East Sections 3-10 and 15-22
Township 35 North, Range 51 East Sections 3-10, 15-22 and 27-34
Township 36 North, Range 51 East Sections 3-10, 15-22 and 27-34
Township 37 North, Range 51 East Sections 31-34
East Ore Body Mine: This property is located in Eureka County, Nevada, Sections 1, 2, 10, 11, and 12 of Township 35 North, Range 50 East, Mount Diablo Meridian, Lynn Mining District and is accessed via improved paved roads. The property is currently being mined by Newmont, and we are receiving a continuing 1% gross smelter return royalty. The East Ore Body Mine claims are owned by Newmont, and we retain a royalty interest. The total claim responsibility for these claims lies with Newmont. Reserve estimates on this property, if any, are not available to us. We have claimed that this 1% royalty as defined in the May 10th 1979 Leeville/East Ore Mine Agreement also applies to an area of interest that contains the Sections and Townships listed below approximately encompassing the area eight (8) miles in a northerly direction, eight (8) miles in a southerly direction, eight (8) miles in an easterly direction and eight (8) miles in a westerly direction from Section 10, Township 35 North, Range 50 East, M.D.B. & M., Eureka County, Nevada. See Part I, Item 3, regarding our litigation with Newmont and Barrick Gold Strike. We believe the following accurately describes this area of interest, more or less.
Township 34 North, Range 49 East Sections 1-5, 8-17, and 20-24
Township 35 North, Range 49 East Sections 1-5, 8-17, and 32-36
Township 36 North, Range 49 East Sections 1-5, 8-17, 20-29 and 32-36
Township 37 North, Range 49 East Sections 32-36
Township 34 North, Range 50 East Sections 1-24
Township 35 North, Range 50 East Sections All
Township 36 North, Range 50 East Sections All
Township 37 North, Range 50 East Sections 31-36
Township 34 North, Range 51 East Sections 3-10 and 15-22
Township 35 North, Range 51 East Sections 3-10, 15-22 and 27-34
Township 36 North, Range 51 East Sections 3-10, 15-22 and 27-34
Township 37 North, Range 51 East Sections 31-34
Nevada map with the Leeville Mine, East Ore Body Mine, North Pipeline property and Maggie Creek property locations
Locations of the Leeville Mine, East Ore Mine, North Pipeline property and Maggie Creek property in Central Nevada
Location of Leeville Mine, East Ore Body Mine
Leeville Mine, East Ore Body Mine BLM map
North Pipeline: This property is located in Lander County, Nevada, Township 29 North, Range 47 East, Mount Diablo Meridian, Section 9, more particularly described as the E ½; E ½ of the NW ¼ of Section 9, Township 29, Range 47, and is accessed via improved paved roads. We have a royalty agreement with Nevada Rae Gold, Inc. on our North Pipeline property, pursuant to a contract entered into in September of 2003 for the mining rights of the surface gravel. The contract calls for a guaranteed annual advanced royalty of $20,000 minimum per year. The production royalty is $0.50 per yard of ore processed or 4% of net profits, whichever is greater. We have retained all rights to the hard rock minerals in the North Pipeline Property.
North Pipeline is a real property interest and not a mining claim of any kind, patented or unpatented. We purchased this property according to the laws of the State of Nevada. We hold the surface and underground mineral rights to this real property, and pay annual taxes to Lander County, Nevada, presently in the amount of approximately $258.
Maggie Creek: This property is located in Eureka County, Nevada, seven miles north of Carlin, Nevada on unpatented claims located in sections 12 and 14, township 33 North, Range 51 East, Mount Diablo Meridian, Lynn Mining District. This property is accessed via improved paved roads. This property is not currently in operation, but adjacent to this property is Newmont’s Gold Quarry mine, which is a producing gold mine. Our interest in this property is future three-percent (3%) royalty income from operations performed by others mining this property. Since we have only a royalty interest in this property, we do not have the right to conduct mining operations. The total claim responsibility for these claims lies with Newmont. Reserve estimates on this property, if any, are not available to us.
Golden Ibex Property: This property consists of 13 patented mining claims located approximately 10 miles west of Sumpter and 40 miles southeast of Baker City in Southeastern Oregon, in the heart of the Blue Mountain Gold belt, which has been long known for precious metal production. The Company currently owns a 1% NSR royalty interest and a 2.4% equity position in Golden Ibex. Golden Ibex has committed US$500,000 to exploration in the first year. Bullion is not currently collecting any royalties on the Golden Ibex Property.
Exploration Properties
Niquelandia: The Niquelandia bauxite project is located at 14° 27' 0” South, 48° 27' 0” West, just north of the town of Niquelandia in the state of Goiás, Brazil. The town of Niquelandia has a population of about 40,000 and is located approximately 200 km northwest of Brasilia, the federal capital of Brazil. The city changed its name to Niquelândia in 1943 after a world class nickel deposit was discovered by a prospector looking for gold in the region. It the largest municipality in the state and is an important producer of minerals. Other mining towns of Tupiracaba, Indaianopolis, and Barro Alto are in the area. Access to the Niquelândia Project area is readily available on asphalt state road GO 237. State road GO 538 is a well maintained improved dirt road that runs along the western portion of the Project to Indaianopolis. State road BR 414 runs east of the Project.
The Niquelândia Project is comprised of 9 mineral exploration permits totalling approximately 16,488.3 hectares. The permits are shown to have been published on June 1, 2010. Under Brazilian law, once the permit has been published the holder has three years to complete exploration upon which the license can be renewed for up to three more years, for a total of six years, at the discretion of the Departamento Nacional de Prodacao Mineral (“DNPM”) as long as work is done on the property and the taxes are paid. After six years, a permit holder either gives up the property or obtains a mining license.
Bauxite mineralization is the primary focus for the Niquelândia Project’s exploration permits. However surrounding this area are numerous published permits for: nickel exploration to the north and southwest; and gold to the west and the southeast; and aluminum due east (by Companhia Brasileira de Aluminio). The property comprises the western portion of a prominent local teardrop-shaped topographic feature. Nickel laterite deposits are located along the eastern portion of this topographic high.
Niquelandia - General Location Map
The Niquelândia Project is comprised of 9 mineral leases totalling 16,488.3 hectares. A third party has recently transferred all exploration rights for the Niquelândia bauxite property to Dourave Brazil. By agreement, and registered with DNPM as of February 16, 2011, Dourave Brazil has obtained the right to explore on and eventually purchase the property. Niquelândia Project infrastructure is uncommonly good. The proximity to paved roads and electrical power is excellent. An airport, with a paved, lighted runway over 5,000 feet long (that is well maintained but not legal for night flight), is located to the southeast of the property. Cell phone, internet and telephone access are available. A ready workforce is available. Mine equipment, repair and support are available locally.
The Niquelândia complex, a large layered intrusion occurring in Central Goiás, Brazil, consists of an upper and lower layered sequence, separated by a high T shear zone containing abundant crustal xenoliths and lenses. The upper sequence is bordered by the volcano-sedimentary Proterozoic Indaianopolis sequence, and the lower sequence is in tectonic contact with the terrains of the Archean basement.
The area of interest covered by the Niquelândia Project is predominately within what has been called the Serra dos Borges Unit (“SBU”), which has an estimated thickness of 4-6 km and consists of interlayered “gabbroic” rocks (gabbro, gabbronorite, olivine gabbro) and “anorthositic” rocks (anorthosite leucotroctolite, leucogabbro, leucogabbronorite). Although invariably interlayered, the “gabbroic” rocks predominate at the base of the unit, whereas the “anorthositic” rocks predominate at the top.
Analysis and mapping of surface geological features, including locations of gabbro and anorthosite, has been undertaken to a limited extent.
Dourave geologists have mapped three separate target exploration zones:
·
Southern Zone
·
Central Zone
·
Northern Zone
The total area of the three target zones is 63 km2. The southern zone has an area of 15.5 km2. The central zone has an area of 33.2 km2. The northern zone has an area of 14.2 km2.
Surface sampling has been performed in several locations. The following section details the sample locations and assay results.
Figure B
Verified Bauxite Occurrences
Lateritic weathering of the upper sequence anorthosites is abundant throughout the property. The anorthosites are course-grain and display varying amounts of mafic minerals (pyroxene and olivine) within the plagioclase matrix. These variations affect the texture of the anorthosite and can be classified as spotted, mottled or banded anorthosite. The highest grades of aluminum oxide (~60%) appear to be associated with weathered pure anorthosite, with a “crust” of bauxite forming around a pure anorthosite core. These weathered anorthosites range from cobble to boulder in size and are usually present within lateritic clay matrices.
Extensive bauxite profiles were also observed as unconsolidated clay matrix. It is possible that these bauxite-clay profiles are a result of more frequent weathering due to persistent drainage or runoff. It is possible that higher grade, weathered pure anorthosite will be found below these bauxite clays. Massive muscovite mica deposits were also observed at two locations in the central/southern zone. These massive aluminum phyllosilicate mica deposits are thought by Bullion’s geologist to be most likely a result of feldspathic alteration.
A two stage exploration program is to be instituted. Given the large size of the concession and the widespread nature of the deposit, a campaign of relatively short drill holes spaced on a regular grid as currently envisioned by Dourave has merit. A detailed ground mapping campaign identifying locations of gabbro intrusions and other unmineralized zones should first be undertaken in order to define locations where drilling will not pay dividends. Bikerman recognizes that some mapping of these areas has been performed, but more detail is desirable.
Metallurgical analysis of the different classes or textures of bauxite mineralization should be undertaken in order to determine the differences in composition, characteristics and processability of the
aluminum oxide. The differences between the spotted, banded, or mottled textures, as well as degree of oxidation and/or alternation, have on grade, processability, and profitability.
Phase I
• Detailed mapping
• Geophysical analysis
• Metallurgical sampling, testing and characterization
• Wide space drilling in areas of known mineralization
Phase II
• Definition drilling on a regularized pattern in prioritized locations
• Metallurgical analysis
• Resource calculation
Reserve modeling will be performed based upon the results of phase I and II. This will involve the assessment of minability and processability of the mineralization and economic viability of the Niquelândia Project. As such a total exploration budget of $1.5 million is recommended. Phase I work is estimated to cost $575,000 and phase II is estimated to cost $925,000.
Bom Jesus: The Bom Jesus Project covers 9,150 hectares and includes 262 PLG’s (prospectors’ leases) and 2 overlying exploration leases. The exploration leases are both from 2008: DNPM# 850.652 is registered to Solange Moreira de Aguilar; and DNPM # 850.653 is 5,217.8 hectares and registered to Valmir Clamaco de Aguilar (Valmir). Operating license permit #4353/2010 for DNPM # 850.653 is in force and valid until May 23, 2013. Bullion holds the rights to the Bom Jesus Project through its wholly owned subsidiary Dourave Canada, which in turn owns 99.99% of the shares of Dourave Brazil.This 9,150 hectares gold project lies within the Tapajós gold province, which encompasses an area of about 100,000 km2 in southwest Para region of Brazil. It is accessible by air or river transportation year round
As with many properties in the Tapajós Region, the Bom Jesus Project is serviced primarily by air by both single-engine airplane with a flight time of either 1 Hr 40 Min from Itaituba or 30min from Novo Progresso (on the BR163 Santarem- Cuiaba Highway). The airstrip at the Bom Jesus Project is in good condition. The runway had been recently graded by heavy machinery and requires little or no work beyond grading after heavy rains.
Dourave Brazil has entered into a lease/purchase & sale agreement dated September 24, 2007 with the registered owners of the Bom Jesus Project. Under the terms of the lease/purchase agreement, rights of exploration of the mining area (called a garimpo) are ceded to Dourave. In exchange, Dourave initially agreed to lease payments of US$5,000 per month. Dourave and the registered owners amended the terms of the lease/purchase agreement to provide for the lease payments to be paid on the closing of the purchase of the property by Dourave.
If the Company discovers an “exploitable resource” on the property and commences to “exploit its resources”, the vendors shall transfer the relevant property to the Company upon receipt from the Company of $7 million, to be paid as follows:
a.
$1 million upon the submission of an feasibility study to the Departamento Nacional de Prodacao Mineral (“DNPM”);
b.
$1 million upon the approval of the feasibility study by the DNPM;
c.
$1 million within ten days following publication of a mining concession on the Bom Jesus or Bom Jardim property by the regulatory authorities in the Brazilian Government Official Daily Gazette;
d.
$1 million within ten days following issuance of an environmental permit by the appropriate licensing authority;
e.
$1 million within 180 days following the payment described in item (c) above;
f.
$1 million within 60 days following the payment described in item (d) above; and
$1 million within 60 days following the payment described in item (e) above.
The Bom Jesus Project is situated about 120 meters above sea level. Locally the elevation is somewhat rolling, forming hills and valleys. There are some ridges of land on the Bom Jesus Project which are up to 50 meters above the surrounding drainages. The vegetation is composed of dense forest, with
localized areas occupied by farmers and the timber industry. In the case of the Bom Jesus Project, there is little activity in the surrounding areas and the garimpo is essentially isolated from outside interference. The property lies within the Amazon basin and vegetation is typical of that found in a tropical jungle environment. The principle areas not covered by jungle have been worked by the garimpeiros, and the drainages are filled by either tailings or swamps, although there is some cleared land used for the cultivation of crops. The lowest parts of these workings are now flooded. There are manydrainages.
Bom Jesus - General Location Map
The relatively flat topography could adequately site a plant and tailings and waste impoundments.
The Tapajós Province is situated in Central Amazon and is a part of the large Amazon Craton. In the North, it is bounded by the Amazon Basin near the town of Itaituba, and in the South by the Cachimbo Graben. The main rock units of the Province are attributed to events that took place during the Archaean, Proterozoic, and Phanerozoic. Tropical latosoils are developed over most areas at Cuiú, with thicker development on plateaus. The latosoil is 2 to 5 meters thick, brick red to ochre in color, and usually displays a well-developed “stone line” or ferricrete horizon, several meters below surface, just above the transition to saprolite.
Dourave has completed its initial phase of exploration on the Bom Jesus property, which included: geochemical and geophysical exploration and a 2212.05 meter diamond drilling program spread over various drilling locations on the property. Its focus was to determine the source of coincident geochemical, geophysical and geological anomalies and the potential for an economic gold and polymetallic resource. The Company began an additional stream sediment sampling program on the Bom Jesus Project in November 2010.
Early rock and channel sampling returned bonanza grades. Highlights from vein samples include:
Sampling Location
Gold (g/t)
Silver (g/t)
BJ-R-05
BJ-R-10
1.97
BJ-R-13
BJ-R-23
2.42
BJ-R-28
2.16
BJ-R-32
1.36
BJ-R-38
BJ-R-47
41.3
BJ-R-51
2.20
BJ-R-2 (over 0.3m)
83.9
Analytical and geochemical results from a recent stream sediment sampling program exceeded expectations and established a large anomaly to the west and southwest of previous exploration efforts. Traditionally any values between 50 and 100 ppb gold would be considered anomalous. Several results were returned with over 3000 ppb gold (3 grams of gold per ton), the highest being over 20,000 ppb gold (20 grams of gold per ton).The presence of significant gold-in-soil anomalies verified by recent stream sediment survey results at the Bom Jesus Project has extended the existing gold anomaly to over six km.
The figure below provides an overview of the results of the stream sediment survey:
In order to cover both the central gold and base metal prospective drill targets within the Bom Jesus Project’s mineralized system, as well as the nearby geophysical targets indicated in the previous aeromagnetic surveys, an IP geophysical survey was designed to cover the known targets highlighted in previous surveys.
All diamond drill holes in the 2010 drilling campaign intersected pervasive pottassic alteration with multiple zones of sericitic, propylitic alteration with varying degrees of disseminated sulphides. The presence of this alteration indicates that the Bom Jesus Project area is within a large alteration system,
The figure below is a map of the Bom Jesus drill hole locations.
Best results were returned from holes FBJ-15 & FBJ-16 with multiple lower grade intersections encountered in holes FBJ-09, FBJ-11 & FBJ-13. As per the previous drilling program anomalous gold values are often associated with anomalous varying degrees of Ag, Cu, Pb and Zn. Preliminary data suggests that the Bom Jesus Project is within a large, pervasive alteration system with up to 5 different phases of alteration. Current studies utilizing thin and polished sections will help define which of these alteration phases is related to gold and base metal mineralization and the subsequent exploration program will be adapted accordingly. Samples have been taken both from surface outcrops and diamond drilling core to allow the preparation of a three-dimensional model of the alteration and mineralization system.
The figure below shows Bom Jesus Drill Holes FBJ 09, 11, 13, 15 and 16.
The history of mining on the Bom Jesus Project from near surface deposits shows the potential profitability from near surface exploration on the surrounding grounds. He also notes that the impressive high grade surface samples recently discovered to the southwest gives reason to believe that near- surface high-grade structures maybe found in the vicinity.
Bom Jardim: This property is located in Para region of Brazil. Recent geophysical surveys confirm the prospective geology and show indications of strong hydrothermal alternation in the project area is considered an advanced exploration project as it has been in small scale production by Mineracao Bom Jardim Ltda. for several years and has had considerable exploration mapping and sampling completed under the direction of a qualified professional geologist to produce a resource base. The Bom Jardim project area covers 22,075.53 and includes 4 exploration leases. The Bom Jardim project is located approximately 175 km southwest of Itaituba. The principal drainages are the Edson and Joel Creeks, which are tributaries to the Bom Jardim Creek which flows into the Tapajos River. The area is accessible by air, land or water.
Geophysical surveys confirm the prospective geology of the property and show indications of strong hydrothermal alteration in the project area. Geochemical signatures highlight the potential for large volume, disseminated sulphide targets in proximity to historic garimpeiro shafts and galleries. Bonanza-grade channel samples from flooded historic galleries have been discovered which indicate good continuity, width, and high gold grades.
Ouro Mil Property: This property is located approximately 290 km due south of the city of Itaituba in southern Para region of Brazil. This property comprises of 82 mineral concessions for a total area of 13,444 hectares and includes 71 prospector leases and 3 overlying exploration leases. Geochemical and geophysical data has highlighted the potential for a large volume of low grade Alkaline or Calc-Alkaline Porhyritic Cu-Au deposits or possibly an IOCG (Iron Oxide Copper Gold) type deposit.
In September 2010, Dourave established a joint venture option with Brazilian Gold Corp. whereby the Company could earn a 70% interest in this property for an investment of up to US$550,000 of staged cash payments and work expenditure commitments of up to US$5 million over a four year period. A drill program is scheduled to commence in mid-2011.
The figure below shows the Ouro Mil magnetic analytical signal and geochemical results:
Positive results returned from the new, enlarged geochemical grid have confirmed the presence of a large 1.5km x 1km gold anomaly surrounded by multiple coincident Cu, Pb, Zn, Co, Ag, and U anomalies. A drill program is scheduled at Our Mil for mid-2011.
Pontal do Paranaita Property: This property is located close to the municipality of Paranaita, near Alta Floresta, a region that has historically produced millions of ounces of gold from alluvial workings to the north of the State of Mato Grosso in Brazil. Dourave and Chapleau Exploracao Mineral Ltd. have conducted exploration geology on this property totalling over 873 hectares. Preliminary geochemical results and geological mapping obtained by the Company is encouraging with the potential for a large volume of gold deposits.
Based on the geochemical results and geological mapping completed to-date, 10 zones of hydrothermal alteration were defined with gold mineralization that measured approximately 2,250 meters in length. The results of select gold in samples of rock from the Pontal do Paranaita property possess values such as 114.05 g/t Au (sample R09070). There are more than ten samples with values between 0.5 g/t Au and 3.48g/t Au.
The figure below shows the soil geochemical map of the Pontal do Paranaita property:
The table below outlines the results of regional rock sampling at the Pontal do Paranaita property.
Sample_ No
Sample type
Easting
Northing
Au_ ppb
Ag_ ppm
Cu_ ppm
Pb_ ppm
Zn_ ppm
Description
R0009070
FSL
11405 5
Rock with oxide of Fe, quartz breached with oxides and disseminated boxworks.
R0009096
OSL
4.7
3.3
5.1
Rhyodacític roch lightlt foliated, fine reddish colored matriz.
R0009081
OSL
8.8
2.6
Rhyodactic rock with porphyritic texture, afanitic matriz, reddish and ferrocrystals of quartz.
R0009068
OSL
Veinlets of quartz (stockworks) in a afantic matrix redened with 5% of disseminated boxworks.
R0009091
OSL
7.8
8.5
Rhyodacític rock with fine reddened matrix and scattered boxworks .
R0005202
FSL
Rock with oxides and sulphide (pyrite), disseminated boxworks in quartz.
R0009073
OSL
8.1
R0009064
OSL
4.1
Rhyolític rock with afanític matrix.
R0009071
OSL
4.6
4.1
Rhyolític rock slightly foliated with afanític matrix and disseminated grains of quartz, approximtely 7% of disseminated boxworks.
R0005204
OSL
R0005213
OSL
Rock with weak hydrothermal alteration, with veinlets of 1mm.
R0005227
OSL
8.2
5.6
Quartz vein.
R0005203
OSL
Quartz vein with hematite oxide between fractures.
The preliminary results obtained indicate a potential for a large volume deposit. Additional exploration is required including increased geological mapping and soil samplings. The figure below highlights the location of the significant artisanal workings at the Pontal do Paranaita property:
Caldeiras Property: This property is accessed from the Trans-Garimpeiro highway in Brazil. It is in an area which has recently been the focus of a regional gold rush and is a grassroots exploration target. The project area covers 28,355 hectares. The area is characterized by geology which is normally associated with old volcanic craters and there is strong evidence of a series of nested carters in the project area. High grade gold and/or basemetals have been exploited in this area.
Ophir: This property is located in Tooele County, Utah, Township 5 South, Range 4 West, and is accessed via improved, unpaved roads. This property was purchased in two transactions during the 1970’s, and consists of a 100% interest in five patented claims located in Tooele County, Utah, the Commodore, Prince of Wales, Prince of Wales #2, Prince of Wales #4 and Prince of Wales #5 claims. No operations have commenced on this property. The Company does not have any present plans to develop this mining property, although it has had preliminary inquiries regarding development of this property. No estimates have been made or are planned to determine the reserves on this property at this time.
Ophir claims are patented and therefore both the surface and underground rights to these claims are 100% owned by the Company. The Prince of Wales, Prince of Wales No. 2, Princes of Wales No. 4 and the Princes of Wales No. 5 are covered under Survey #6221 and contain 51.796 acres and are located in Rush Valley Mining District, Tooele County, Utah. The Commodore Claim is covered under Survey #37, Plat 73 in Rush Valley Mining District, Tooele County, Utah, containing 5.626 acres. This property requires a county tax to be paid annually, presently in the amount of US$28.25
EnShale Oil Shale Property: We have five mineral leases with the State of Utah (“SITLA Oil Shale Leases”). We have included a table below of these five mineral leases, with latitude and longitude coordinates for each and claim description information. The minimum annual lease payments are described in the notes to our consolidated financial statements in Note 7.
ML50142: The property covered under this mineral lease is located in Uinta County, Utah, T8S, R25E, SLB&M and is 1,278.04 acres. Access to this location is via a dirt road. The lease was purchase on December 1, 2005, and has an initial period of ten (10) years and may be renewed. No operations have commenced within the area covered by this lease. The lease requires a production royalty on the basis of 5% of the market price of the products produced from the leased properties. In no event will the production royalty be less than $1.00 per barrel of produced oil. On December 1, 2010, the royalty may, at the option of the lessor, be increased at the rate of up to 1% per annum. The maximum royalty rate shall not exceed 12.5% per annum. No operations have commenced within the area covered by this lease.
ML50145: The property covered under this mineral lease is located in Uinta County, Utah, T9S, R24E, SLB&M and is 866.47 acres. Access to this location is via a dirt road. The lease was purchase on
December 1, 2005, and has an initial period of ten (10) years and may be renewed. No operations have commenced within the area covered by this lease. The lease also requires a production royalty on the basis of 5% of the market price of the products produced from the leased properties. In no event will the production royalty be less than $1.00 per barrel of produced oil. On December 1, 2010, the royalty may, at the option of the lessor, be increased at the rate of up to 1% per annum. The maximum royalty rate shall not exceed 12.5% per annum. No operations have commenced within the area covered by this lease.
ML50146: The property covered under this mineral lease is located in Uinta County, Utah, T9S, R24E, SLB&M and is 1442.01 acres. Access to this location is via a dirt road. The lease was purchase on December 1, 2005, and has an initial period of ten (10) years and may be renewed. No operations have commenced within the area covered by this lease. The lease also requires a production royalty on the basis of 5% of the market price of the products produced from the leased properties. In no event will the production royalty be less than $1.00 per barrel of produced oil. On December 1, 2010, the royalty may, at the option of the lessor, be increased at the rate of up to 1% per annum. The maximum royalty rate shall not exceed 12.5% per annum. No operations have commenced within the area covered by this lease.
ML50147: The property covered under this mineral lease is located in Uinta County, Utah, T9S, R25E, SLB&M and is 200.9 acres. Access to this location is via a dirt road. The lease was purchase on December 1, 2005, and has an initial period of ten (10) years and may be renewed. No operations have commenced within the area covered by this lease. The lease also requires a production royalty on the basis of 5% of the market price of the products produced from the leased properties. In no event will the production royalty be less than $1.00 per barrel of produced oil. On December 1, 2010, the royalty may, at the option of the lessor, be increased at the rate of up to 1% per annum. The maximum royalty rate shall not exceed 12.5% per annum. No operations have commenced within the area covered by this lease.
ML50148: The property covered under this mineral lease is located in Uinta County, Utah, T11S, R25E, SLB&M and is 863.4 acres. Access to this location is via a dirt road. The lease was purchase on December 1, 2005, and has an initial period of ten (10) years and may be renewed. No operations have commenced within the area covered by this lease. The lease also requires a production royalty on the basis of 5% of the market price of the products produced from the leased properties. In no event will the production royalty be less than $1.00 per barrel of produced oil. On December 1, 2010, the royalty may, at the option of the lessor, be increased at the rate of up to 1% per annum. The maximum royalty rate shall not exceed 12.5% per annum. No operations have commenced within the area covered by this lease.
Location map of EnShale leases on the Utah - Colorado border
Location of the EnShale leases in Uintah County, Utah
ITEM 3: