Item 2. Description of Properties.
We do not own any real property. We currently maintain our corporate office space at 200 S Virginia, 8th Floor, Reno, Nevada, 89501 pursuant to a one-year lease for $169 per month. Management believes that our office space is suitable for our current needs.
In the following discussion relating to our interests in real property, there are references to “patented” mining claims and “unpatented” mining claims. A patented mining claim is one for which the U.S. government has passed its title to the claimant, giving that person title to the land as well as the minerals and other resources above and below the surface. The patented claim is then treated like any other private land and is subject to local property taxes. An unpatented mining claim on U.S. government lands establishes a claim to the locatable minerals (also referred to as stakeable minerals) on the land and the right of possession solely for mining purposes. No title to the land passes to the claimant. If a proven economic mineral deposit is developed, provisions of federal mining laws permit owners of unpatented mining claims to patent (to obtain title to) the claim. If one purchases an unpatented mining claim that is later declared invalid by the U.S. government, one could be evicted.
Map of our Marietta and Crescent Fault Properties located in Nevada.
Marietta Property
Acquisition of Interest
On May 18, 2010 we executed the Minerals Lease and Agreement with MinQuest whereby we obtained the right to conduct mineral exploration activities on and in the property with the subsequent right to participate in the development of minerals from the property. There are no minimum annual exploration expenditures required under the Lease Agreement. However, any exploration programs undertaken by us during the lease period shall carryforward and be credited against any future property option agreement should such a property option agreement be executed between us and MinQuest. Upon execution of the Lease Agreement, we paid MinQuest $5,000 as well as reimbursed MinQuest $756 relating to property holding costs.
Under the agreement with MinQuest, all of our payment obligations are non-refundable. If we do not make any payments under the agreement we will lose any payments made and all our rights to the property. MinQuest has retained a 3% royalty of the aggregate proceeds received by the Company from any smelter or other purchaser of any ores, concentrates, metals or other material of commercial value produced from the property, minus the cost of transportation of the ores, concentrates or metals, including related insurance, and smelting and refining charges, including penalties. All of the $5,000 annual lease payments under the agreement shall be treated as advance royalty payments and will be an offset to the production royalty due until the total amount paid to lessor has been recouped.
The Company may use MinQuest for its mineral exploration expertise on the property. Furthermore, both the Company and MinQuest have the right to assign, sell, mortgage or pledge their rights in the agreement or on the property.
The Lease Agreement will terminate if the Company fails to comply with any of its obligations under the Agreement and fails to cure such alleged breach. If the Company gives notice that it denies a default has occurred, the matter shall be determined finally through such means of dispute resolution as such matter has been subjected to by either party. The agreement can be terminated by the Company by providing MinQuest with 60 days written notice.
Description and Location of the Marietta Property
The Marietta is located in Mineral County, Nevada and currently consists of 5 unpatented claims. The town of Mina is 50 km away and Tonopah is 120 km north.
Exploration History of the Marietta Property
Exploration history includes some small unrecorded production from the property that likely occurred between the early 1900’s and 1940’s. Modern exploration was confined to work conducted by American Gold Resources (“AGR”) from 1989 to 1992. AGR completed a total of 59 drill holes testing the above referenced resource area. Of this amount, 33 holes were drilled on 50 feet centers while the remaining holes were drilled on 200 feet centers. Drilling to a depth of 350 feet has defined a mineralized zone that is mostly hosted within a graben of calcareous sandstone with quartz veins. A graben is an elongated depression between geologic faults and a vein is a narrow mass of rock intersecting other rocks, and filling inclined or vertical fissures not corresponding with the stratification. Further work is needed to determine the strike and extent and depth of the mineralization.
Geology of the Marietta
The Marietta is located within the Walker Lane trend. The Walker Lane is a linear north-northwest trending depression extending some 800 km (500 miles) north from the Garlock Fault-Las Vegas area to south-central Oregon. Within it are Walker, Goose, and Pyramid Lakes. This trough is part of the Walker Lane Fault Zone, a major tectonic system that includes Owens and Death Valleys and several prominent faults, and is the site of many contemporary earthquakes. Located at the juncture of two contrasting tectonic styles, the Sierra Nevada and the Basin and Range, the Walker Lane region is deforming in a complex way by both extensional and transcurrent (sliding) fault movements
The Walker Lane shear zone straddles the border between Nevada and California and has a long history of exploration and mining, dating back to the discovery of the famous Comstock Lode in the late 1850s. The Walker Lane is notable for its numerous occurrences of volcanic-hosted epithermal gold and silver deposits. The project area covers sheared and brecciated silciclastic rocks of the Triassic Excelsior Formation intruded by a porphyryitic quartz-monzonite of Laramide age. The mineralized zone is mostly hosted within a graben of calcareous sandstone with quartz veins.
Current State of Exploration
The Marietta claims presently do not have any mineral resources or reserves. There is no mining plant or equipment located within the property boundaries. Currently, there is no power supply to the mineral claims.
Geological Exploration Program
MinQuest has provided a work plan for the first year that will include scanning all currently available data, georeferencing all maps in order to digitize drill hole locations, geology and geochemistry. A spread sheet of drill hole information will be compiled from the known historical drilling. All drill hole coordinates, drill hole assays, oxidation boundaries and lithology will be entered into a spread sheet allowing the development of cross-sections in electronic form using industry software. A ground truth of drill hole locations will be performed with a GPS to assess the accuracy of the data. If any underground workings are open, mapping and sampling will be carried out on those underground workings that remain open to determine the attitude of bedding, underground grades and depth of oxidation.
MinQuest has commenced work according to the work plan. In October 2010, the process of scanning and digitizing the historical data was begun. The total work plan is expected to incur approximately 1,000 hours that will range from time spent scanning data to analysis by geologists. The work will be completed by MinQuest and its network of contractors. Herb Duerr, a geologist and the Vice President of MinQuest will do the field work, management, and senior level analysis while a junior level geologist of Desert Pacific, is currently performing the data scanning. Nevada Blue has been scanning and printing the larger items. It is not expected that Mr. Eastwood, a director of the Company and a part-time consultant to MinQuest , will be performing any of the work to be done by MinQuest or its network of subcontractors on the Marietta property. While the Company has no written agreements with MinQuest or its network of subcontractors, MinQuest has informed us that the work to be done on the Marietta property will be performed by the Herb Duerr, employees of his company Desert Pacific and Nevada Blue. It is currently anticipated that this work will be completed by the fall of 2011 and in order to complete the work plan in this time frame it will take approximately 40 hours of time per week.
These results will be evaluated to determine if one or more precious metals may exist within the property boundaries. Our planned program includes compilation of all activities to the present with the goal of producing an outline of mineralized areas that will guide further exploration drilling. However, this program is exploratory in nature and no minable reserves may ever be found.
Crescent Fault Property
Acquisition of Interest
On April 4, 2011, Tundra executed a property option agreement (the “Agreement”) with MinQuest granting the Company the right to acquire 100% of the mining interests of a Nevada mineral exploration property currently controlled by MinQuest, a natural resource exploration company. The property known as the Crescent Fault Property is located in Eureka County, Nevada and currently consists of 33 unpatented claims (the ‘Property”).
Annual option payments and minimum annual exploration expenditures under Agreement are as noted below:
Upon execution of the Agreement the Company paid MinQuest $20,000 and well as reimbursed MinQuest for the Crescent Fault’s holdings and related property costs in the amount of $7,920.
Since our payment obligations are non-refundable, if we do not make any payments under the Agreement we will lose any payments made and all our rights to the Property. If all said payments under the Agreement are made, then we will acquire all mining interests in the Property. If the Company fails to make any payment when due, the Agreement gives the Company a 60-day grace period to pay the amount of the deficiency. MinQuest retained a 3% royalty of the aggregate proceeds received by the Company from any smelter or other purchaser of any ores, concentrates, metals or other material of commercial value produced from the Property, minus the cost of transportation of the ores, concentrates or metals, including related insurance, and smelting and refining charges, including penalties. The Company shall have the one time right exercisable for 90 days following completion of a bankable feasibility study to buy up to two thirds (66.7%) of Minquest’s royalty (i.e. an amount equal to 2% of the royalty) for $4,000,000. The right to purchase the said royalty interest shall be exercised by the Company providing MinQuest with notice of the purchase accompanied by payment in the amount of $4,000,000.
The Company may use MinQuest for its mineral exploration expertise on the Property. Furthermore, both the Company and MinQuest have the right to assign, sell, mortgage or pledge their rights in each respective Agreement or on each respective Property. In addition, any mineral interests staked, located, granted or acquired by either the Company or MinQuest which are located within a 1 mile radius of the Property will be included in the option granted to the Company.
The Agreement will terminate if the Company fails to comply with any of its obligations in the Agreement and fails to cure such alleged breach. If the Company gives notice that it denies a default has occurred, the matter shall be determined finally through such means of dispute resolution as such matter has been subjected to by either party. The Agreement provides that all disputes shall be resolved by a sole arbitrator under the rules of the Arbitration Act of Nevada. The Company also has the right to terminate the Agreement by giving notice to MinQuest.
Description and Location of the Crescent Fault Property
The Crescent Fault Property is located in western Eureka County, Nevada approximately 240 miles east of Reno. The property is comprised of 33 lode mineral claims on the western flank of the Cortez Mountains in north central Nevada.
Exploration History of the Crescent Fault Property
There is little evidence of prospecting on the Crescent Fault property. A few shallow pits have been excavated on iron rich areas of the sediments. This work was likely carried out in the early 1900’s or later. There is no production recorded from the Crescent Fault area. Recent exploration on the property dates to the 1970’s when Chevron initiated a geothermal test of a nearby hot spring. Since that time Noranda and North Mining conducted exploration programs centered-around the northeastern portion of the claim group. In all, 16 holes for 10,246 feet (2,945 m) of drilling have been completed on the property.
In 1991, Noranda explored the property with geologic mapping and geochemical sampling. In 1992 Noranda joint ventured the property with Golden Giant. A drill program was initiated in 1993 and 6 holes were drilled for a total of 2905 feet. An additional 3 holes for a total of 2106 feet were drilled in 1994 following up mineralization encountered in 1993. Nine holes were completed for a total of 5011 feet. All holes tested the foot wall of the Crescent Fault. The property was dropped shortly after due to the perceived limited nature of the mineralization.
In 1994 North Mining acquired the property. North conducted an extensive geologic mapping and
sampling program and geophysical surveys. In 1995 North completed a seven-hole RC program for a total of 4005 feet. North tested the hanging wall side of the fault within the pediment. Bedrock was only encountered in three of the seven holes. A lack of positive results forced North to return the project.
In 1996 Golden Peaks Resources acquired the property and reportedly drilled at least one core hole for an unknown total footage. This data is not currently available. The drilling is believed to have occurred in late 1997 to mid-1998. The company returned the property in 1999.
MinQuest obtained the property position in 2005.
Geology of the Crescent Fault Property
The Crescent Fault property lies within the Battle Mountain-Eureka trend. This zone is defined by the Ruby Hill mine on the south end and the Twin Creeks mine on the north end. The property is situated in north central Nevada within the Basin and Range Physiographic Province. The Great Basin is characterized by northerly trending mountain ranges separated by wide valleys. In north-central Nevada the ranges are generally composed of Paleozoic shelf carbonate rocks unconformably overlain by deep water siliceous sedimentary rocks. Thinning crust from extension provides episodic magmatism and associated geothermal plumes. The prolonged heat combined with circulating ground water is believed to be a primary contributor to mineral deposition throughout the region.
The Crescent Fault property is underlain by a sequence of Ordovician silciclastic sediments of the Valmy Formation and Permian to Pennsylvanian age carbonate and clastic sediments reportedly of the Brock Canyon Formation. These formations have been intruded by several stocks or laccoliths of probable Cretaceous age ranging from granodiorite to quartz monzonite. Later stage diorite dikes have been recognized along fault zones sub-parallel to the range front fault.
Quaternary alluvial debris masks everything north of the range front fault. Alteration of sediments and intrusive rocks occurs adjacent to the range front structure along its strike length within property boundaries. Alteration alters all rock types from 60 to 200 feet inward of the range front fault. Alteration types within the sediment package vary from quartz veining and jasperoid to decalcification and clay alteration. Alteration effects within intrusive rocks range from stockwork quartz veining to secondary carbonate alteration combined with disseminated sulfides. Contact zones within both intrusive and sediment rocks are bleached and heavily sericitized. However, sericite alteration is generally not widespread.
Gold and silver mineralization on the Crescent Fault property occurs within both sediment and intrusive rocks. Anomalous gold and silver values have been encountered in altered calcareous sandstone, siltstone and conglomerate of the Antler Sequence of Pennsylvanian to Permian age, and the Mesozoic granodiorite. The intrusive bodies appear to interfinger with the sediments suggesting a laccolith environment, but may actually be the result of complicated sets of sub-parallel faulting within the footwall of the range front structure. The character of the mineralization is mixed ranging from base and precious metals-rich skarn to disseminated gold in silicified and argillized sediments. The gold and silver mineralization are associated with lead and zinc in one area of skarn and with a set of toxic elements indicative of “Carlin type” mineralization in other areas. Over all, the system appears similar to other epithermal systems in the immediate area.
The range front structure trends northeasterly along the break in slope forming the boundary between Crescent Valley and the Cortez Range. The Crescent Fault zone is estimated to have up to 6,000 feet of vertical displacement based on geologic mapping and various geophysical techniques. Sub-parallel northeasterly trending structures have been identified by various geologists within the footwall of the range front structure. These faults suggest a relationship of conjugate faulting related to lateral movement. An older set of northwest trending faults are localized within drainages and may terminate at the range front fault. These structures are not well defined, but appear to have modest offsets.
A geophysical interpretation from a CSMT survey conducted in 2006 suggests that some northwesterly faults may offset the Crescent fault by 50 to 200 feet. Displacement of veining and alteration along the range front suggest potential for mineralization under cover to the north. Drilling indicates depths to bedrock of greater than 500 feet immediately northwest (hanging wall) of the range front fault. However, alteration and mineralization have been localized along 10 this fault for over four miles in strike length. A further evaluation of vertically offset mineralization may be warranted if a suitable targeting method can be found.
Previous exploration on the Crescent Fault property identified significant alteration along the Crescent Fault, a major range front fault zone. This fault has been remobilized over tens of millions of years with both apparent dip-slip and strike-slip movement. The alteration occurring within and adjacent to the range front can be traced along strike for over 15,000 feet. The present claim position covers approximately 8,000 feet of this feature.
The most noticeable alteration at the Crescent Fault Project is linked with hydrothermal alteration at surface. Alteration consisting of jasperoid, quartz veining and stockwork quartz veinlets associated with clay, decalcification and sericite alteration within the sediments occurs at surface and at depth. An equally noticeable alteration effect at surface is bleaching, iron staining and potassic alteration in the granodiorite. These alteration effects are not mentioned in drill logs.
Additional alteration at depth as described in drill logs, but not apparent on surface is indicated by garnet rich marble and hornfels mixed with granodiorite. This alteration is regarded as prograde skarn and is generally related to the higher gold values and visual identification of zinc as phalerite. A second type of alteration (possibly retrograde) is described as silicification (25 to 50% quartz) and clay alteration occurring within silciclastic sediments.
A compilation of rock, stream and drill geochemistry indicates at least three separate mineralized areas occur along the Crescent Fault. These areas remain open down dip and along strike providing additional targets within the property boundary. Mineralization on the Crescent Fault property occurs within Paleozoic age calcareous sandstone, limestone and conglomerate. This rock sequence has been intruded by a Tertiary granodiorite to quartz monzonite stock, which in turn is cut by high-angle diorite and basalt dikes. The entire rock package has been cut by a range front fault.
Current State of Exploration
The Crescent Fault property does not have any reportable mineral resources or reserves. The property has seen only cursory prospecting. There has been no production of metals from the property in the past.
Geological Exploration Program
Tundra has not yet undertaken any exploration on the Crescent Fault Property. However, the Company has completed a compilation of the available historic data. MinQuest has submitted a budget proposal that will include a drill program and a cultural survey. The Company’s Board of Directors has not yet approved the proposed budget.
Item 3.