Item 2. PROPERTIES
Our properties are located in the State of Alaska, and principally consist of a mineral lease and unpatented mining claims. Only our Tetlin Properties are a material property of the Company. None of the known prospects on the Tetlin Properties is known to host quantifiable mineral reserves as defined by SEC Industry Guide 7.
We believe that we hold good title to our properties in accordance with standards generally accepted in the minerals industry. As is customary in the mining industry, we conduct only a perfunctory title examination at the time we acquire a property. Before we begin any mining activities, however, we will conduct a full title examination and perform curative work on any defects that we deem significant.
Lease with Tetlin Village Council
JEX entered into the Tetlin Lease with the Tetlin Village Council, effective as of July 15, 2008. An undivided 50% leasehold interest was sold to Contango Mining pursuant to the Joint Exploration Agreement dated as of September 29, 2009 in exchange for $1 million and a 1% overriding royalty interest. JEX transferred its remaining 50% leasehold interest to Contango Mining as of September 15, 2010 in exchange for an increased overriding royalty aggregating 3% pursuant to an Amended ORRI Agreement. The Tetlin Lease covers approximately 675,000 acres of land, provides for an initial term of ten (10) years, with an option to renew the acreage for an additional ten years, or so long as we continue conducting mining operations on the Tetlin Lease. While the Company is required to spend $350,000 per year annually until July 15, 2018 in exploration costs pursuant to the Tetlin Lease, the Company's exploration expenditures on the Tetlin Properties through 2014 satisfied this requirement because under the Tetlin Lease, exploration funds spent in any year in excess of $350,000 are credited toward future years’ exploration cost requirements.
If the Tetlin Lease is placed into commercial production of precious or non-precious metals, we will be obligated to pay a production royalty to the Native Village of Tetlin, ranging from 2.0% to 5.0%. The Company has purchased 0.75% of this production royalty for $225,000, which reduces the production royalty to a range of 1.25% to 4.25%. On or before July 15, 2020, the Tetlin Village Council has the option to repurchase the 0.75% production royalty for $450,000, or a portion thereof. Until such time as production royalties begin, the Company originally paid the Tetlin Village Council an advance minimum royalty of $50,000 per year, which shall be credited toward any production royalty payable to the Tetlin Village Council. On July 15, 2012, the advance minimum royalty increased to $75,000 per year, and subsequent years are escalated by an inflation adjustment. As of June 2014, the Company had prepaid the $75,000 advance minimum royalty due to the Tetlin Village Council on July 15, 2014, and prepaid $40,000 of the $75,000 advance minimum royalty that is due to the Tetlin Village Council on July 15, 2015.
Gold Mining Claims
A listing of our State of Alaska unpatented mining claims as of June 30, 2014 for gold and associated minerals are listed in Exhibit 99.1, 99.3, 99.4, 99.5, and 99.6. These mining claims are not material and are not known to host quantifiable mineral reserves as defined by SEC Industry Guide 7.
REE Mining Claims
A listing of our Federal mining claims as of June 30, 2014 for rare earth elements are listed in Exhibit 99.2. These mining claims are not material and are not known to host quantifiable mineral reserves as defined by SEC Industry Guide 7.
Location of and Access to our Properties
Our Tetlin Properties are located in the Tetlin Hills and Mentasta Mountains of eastern interior Alaska, 300 kilometers southeast of the city of Fairbanks and 20 kilometers southeast of Tok, Alaska. The Tetlin Lease covers an area measuring approximately 80 kilometers north-south by 60 kilometers east-west in eastern Interior Alaska.
The Tetlin Properties are accessible via helicopter and via road. The 23-mile long Tetlin Village Road is an all-weather gravel road connecting the village with the town of Tok on the Alaska Highway. The majority of our Tetlin Properties is accessible only via helicopter, although many winter trails exist in the Tetlin Hills and Mentasta Mountains in the northern and southwestern parts of the Properties, respectively. Winter trails link Tetlin Village to the village of Old Tetlin and continue south to the Tetlin River airstrip, a 1,500 foot long unmaintained gravel strip located in the Tetlin River Valley. Winter trails also provide access to the Tuck Creek valley from the village of Mentasta on the Tok Cutoff Highway.
Two seasonal dirt roads have been permitted and constructed through the Tetlin Village to allow surface access to the Chief Danny gold-copper-silver prospect in the northern Tetlin Hills. Both of these roads begin along the Tetlin Village Road and extend to the Chief Danny project and access to both roads is controlled by gates at their junction with the Tetlin Village Road.
The paved Alaska Highway passes near the northern edge of the Tetlin Properties as does the southern terminus of the Taylor Highway where it joins the Alaska Highway at Tetlin Junction. The 23-mile long Tetlin Village road provides year-round access to the northern Tetlin Hills, linking Tetlin Village to the Alaska Highway. Buried electrical and fiber-optic communications cables follow this road corridor and link Tetlin Village to the Tok power and communications grid. The Tok public electric facility is capable of generating up to 2 megawatts of power, and the nearest high capacity public electric facilities to the Tetlin Properties are in Delta Junction, 107 road miles northwest of the Tetlin project and Glennallen, 138 road miles southwest of the Tetlin Properties. The Company does not have any plant or equipment at its Tetlin Properties, relying on contractors to perform work.
We do not believe the Tetlin Properties have been previously explored for minerals.
Gold Exploration
To date, our gold exploration has concentrated on the Tetlin Properties. During the 2014 summer season, we conducted only minimal exploration activities. Our exploration effort on the Tetlin Properties in prior periods has resulted in identifying one mineral prospect (Chief Danny) and several other gold and copper leads. We have drilled certain of these other leads as part of our 2013 exploration program. We gathered surface, bedrock, and stream sediment data on the Tetlin Properties as well as on the Eagle state of Alaska claims adjacent to the Tetlin Properties. None of our exploration targets are known to host quantifiable commercial mineral reserves, as defined by SEC Industry Guide 7, none have had metallurgical or mineral processing studies conducted on them, and none are near or adjacent to other known significant gold or copper deposits. There has been no recorded past placer or lode mining on these leads, and to our knowledge, the Company is the only entity known to have conducted drilling operations on these leads.
The majority of the Tetlin Properties is hosted within the Yukon-Tanana Terrane (YTT), a regionally extensive package of metamorphic rocks. Rocks of the YTT on the Tetlin Properties consist primarily of more deformed, higher temperature metamorphic rocks on the northern third of the project and less deformed, lower temperature metamorphic rocks to the south. Country rocks on the Tetlin Properties are intruded by poorly documented granitic rocks.
Large-scale structural features within the Tetlin Properties are closely tied to movements along the Tintina-Kaltag and Denali-Farewell fault systems, two continental-scale faults between which are a series of district and prospect-scale northeast, northwest and east-west structures. Limited exposures in the northern half of the property make identification of these structures difficult. Prospect to hand-sample scale folding has been noted throughout the project area.
Although alpine glaciation has affected elevations above 4,500 feet on the southern edge of the Tetlin Properties, most of the Tetlin Properties escaped Pleistocene continental glaciation. However, due to its proximity to continental glaciers to the north and east, the Tetlin Properties were covered by a variable thickness of wind-blown silt ranging up to 10 meters thick. This extremely fine-grained, metal-barren silt effectively masks the geochemical signature of underlying bedrock containing gold-copper-silver mineralization. Following deposition of this silt layer, the Tetlin Properties were subjected to an extensive period of surface weathering, which now extends 200-300 feet below surface.
From a regional perspective, the Tetlin Properties are located in the Tintina Gold Belt in rocks that are highly prospective for gold deposits as well as porphyry copper-molybdenum-gold deposits that are younger than the gold deposits of the Tintina Gold Belt. . These two genetically different types of mineralization overlap in eastern Interior Alaska and the western Yukon Territory and are host to dozens of known prospects, deposits and active mines. In addition, rocks on the southern edge of the Tetlin Properties are prospective for nickel-copper-platinum group element deposits. Prior to its discovery in 2009, the style of mineralization discovered on the Chief Danny prospect on our Tetlin Properties was unknown in Interior Alaska. Diamond drilling results from 2011 through 2013 has revealed the presence of a distinctive suite of elements and minerals at the Peak and Discovery Zones that does not match the typical characteristics of gold deposits of the Tintina Gold Belt but do share several diagnostic characteristics of gold-copper-silver skarn deposits, possibly as part of a larger porphyry copper-molybdenum-gold system. Skarn is a term that refers to a distinctive class of mineral deposits formed where limestone-bearing rocks are intruded by hot, fluid-bearing granitic rocks. The Peak Zone mineralization most closely resembles the gold-sulfide skarns mined at the Fortitude deposit in the Battle Mountain Mining District of central Nevada.
Chief Danny Prospect
The Chief Danny Prospect currently is the most advanced exploration target on the Tetlin Properties and is comprised of several distinct mineralized areas, the Peak Zone, Discovery Zone, Roadcut Zone and the Saddle Zone. The Chief Danny prospect was discovered during rock, stream sediment and pan concentrate sampling in 2009 and since then has been explored using top of bedrock soil auger sampling, trenching, ground induced polarization (IP) geophysics, airborne magnetic and resistivity surveys and core drilling. Results from this work indicate the presence of a zoned metal-bearing system consisting of a gold-copper-iron enriched core covering six square miles at Chief Danny South (includes Peak, Discovery and Roadcut Zones) and a fault-offset arsenic-gold enriched zone to the north covering three square miles at the Saddle Zone. We have conducted extensive drilling on the Peak Zone. We have also conducted environmental base line studies on the areas surrounding the Chief Danny Prospect, as well as conducted airborne magnetic and resistivity programs. From 2009 through 2013, the Company conducted field-related exploration work at the Chief Danny Prospect, including collecting the following samples:
2013 Exploration Program. The Company completed 14,349 meters (47,079 ft) of core drilling in 69 core holes during the 2013 Tetlin project exploration program. Drilling included infill and step-out drilling in the Peak Zone (60 holes, 11,592 meters), and completion of 9 additional core holes on 5 other leads in the greater Chief Danny prospect (2,757 meters). The Company also completed approximately 2,500 line-kilometers of airborne magnetic and electromagnetic geophysics, completed or commenced all of the baseline water quality sampling, cultural resource assessments, wetlands mapping, preliminary metallurgical testing and acid rock drainage testing. We spent approximately $9.0 million for this work which includes drilling, geochemical analyses, airborne geophysics, landholding fees and other related expenses. The following table summarizes the significant drilling results released to date for 2013:
Significant 2013 Drill Intercepts from the Peak Zone. Sample intervals are calculated using a 0.5 grams per ton (gpt) lower cut off for gold with no internal waste greater than 3 meters in thickness and less than cutoff grade. Intercepts shown are drill intercept lengths. True width of mineralization is unknown. The grade cutoff for gold (Au) is 0.5 gpt; for silver (Ag) is 10 gpt; and for copper (Cu) is 0.1%.
2012 Exploration Program. The 2012 exploration program at the Chief Danny Prospect began in mid-May and was completed in mid-October 2012. We originally budgeted $3.6 million to utilize one rig and drill 20,000 feet in 20 to 40 core holes. Initial results from the drilling program at Chief Danny resulted in reallocating funds from our other gold and copper leads to the Chief Danny Prospect, which enabled us to utilize two rigs to drill 36,004 feet in 50 core holes. The Company also conducted additional soil auger geochemical sampling on the western and southern margins of the Chief Danny Prospect and conducted baseline water quality sampling in drainage basins that have the potential to be impacted by the development of the Chief Danny Prospect. The total cost of our 2012 exploration program on our Chief Danny prospect was approximately $4.6 million, compared to investing only $1.0 million on our other gold and copper leads which also included geochemical analysis, claim rentals and other related expenses.
The 2012 exploration program expanded on previously drilled areas and intercepted high grade gold and copper mineralization in the newly designated Peak Zone discovery. The results from four holes contained high gold values over substantial widths, with the best section grading an average 192 feet grading 11.996 ppm gold, 9.1 ppm silver and 0.243% copper in one hole; 14.5 feet grading 46.148 ppm gold, 25.9 ppm silver and 0.518% copper in another hole; and 120 feet grading 0.309 ppm gold, 71.6 ppm silver and 1.114% copper in another hole (see table of results below). In general, all of the holes intercepted a 100 to 125 foot wide zone of alteration and mineralization. The mineralization dips at a low angle to the north and trends northwest-southeast. In addition to gold, silver and copper, other anomalous metals include arsenic, bismuth, cobalt, molybdenum and tin with lesser, more sporadic anomalous lead and zinc.
Significant 2012 Gold Drill Results from the Peak Zone. Sample intervals are calculated using a 0.5 ppm lower cut off for gold with no internal intervals below cutoff grade that are greater than ten feet thick. Intercepts shown are drill intercept lengths. True width of mineralization is not known.
Following discovery of the Peak Zone, additional drilling was completed along strike to the northwest and southeast, eventually extending gold and/or copper mineralization over approximately 1700 feet of strike. Gold grades in excess of 1 ppm were encountered in all of these holes. Alteration and sulfide mineralization styles were identical along the entire strike length drilled in 2012.
2011 Exploration Program. The 2011 exploration program at the Chief Danny Prospect consisted of 1,267 core samples taken over 8,057 feet of drilling in 11 core holes. The geophysics conducted in 2011 was airborne magnetics and resistivity surveys as opposed to the ground IP (induced polarization) that was done in 2010. Core drilling and trenching at the Chief Danny prospect in 2011 did not return significant grade-thickness intervals for holes number 1, 3, 6, 8, 9 and 11. During its 2011 exploration program, the Company spent approximately $2.4 million on drilling activity and geochemical analyses of its Chief Danny prospect. For the remaining holes, intervals of gold and copper mineralization were as follows, in gpt for gold and silver and percent for copper:
Our 2013 exploration program was designed and supervised by Avalon, the primary geological consultant for the Company. A more complete description of Avalon is set forth in Item 1 - Consulting Services provided by Avalon Development Corporation. The President of Avalon is Curtis J. Freeman who graduated from the College of Wooster, Ohio, with a B.A. degree in Geology (1978) and graduated from the University of Alaska with an M.S. degree in Economic Geology (1980). Mr. Freeman is a member of the American Institute of Professional Geologists, the Society of Economic Geologists, the Geological Society of Nevada, the Alaska Miners Association, the Association for Mineral Exploration of British Columbia and the Prospectors and Developers Association of Canada. From 1980 to the present Mr. Freeman has been actively employed in various capacities in the mining industry in numerous locations in North America, Central America, South America, New Zealand and Africa.
Geochemical Analysis and Security
All samples submitted in 2010 and 2011 were prepared for assay by ALS Minerals at their facilities in Fairbanks, Alaska and analyzed at their Vancouver, British Columbia facility. Analytical work consisted of gold by fire assay with atomic absorption finish plus multi-element inductively coupled plasma atomic emission spectrography (ICP-AES) analyses using 4-acid digestion. All samples processed in 2009 through 2011 were cataloged in the field and shipped via ground transport to Avalon’s secure warehouse in Fairbanks and then transported by ALS Minerals employees to the ALS Minerals preparation facility in Fairbanks.
All original samples submitted in 2012 were prepared by Acme Analytical Lab and analyzed for gold at its Fairbanks, Alaska facility, and analyzed for all other elements at its Vancouver, British Columbia facility. Analytical work consisted of gold by fire assay with atomic absorption finish plus multi-element inductively coupled plasma atomic emission spectrography (ICP-AES) analyses using 4-acid digestion. All samples collected in 2012 were cataloged in the field and shipped via ground transport: either directly to Acme’s preparation and analysis facility in Fairbanks by an Avalon contractor; or to Avalon’s secure warehouse in Fairbanks and then transported by Acme employees to the Acme facility in Fairbanks. Sample reject material was submitted as check assays to be prepared by ALS Minerals at its facilities in Fairbanks and analyzed at their Vancouver, British Columbia facility. Analytical work consisted of gold by fire assay with atomic absorption finish plus multi-element inductively coupled plasma atomic emission spectrography (ICP-AES) analyses using 4-acid digestion.
All original samples submitted in 2013 for geochemical analysis were prepared by two different labs, Acme Analytical Lab and ALS Minerals, at their respective facilities in Fairbanks and analyzed at their respective facilities in Vancouver, British Columbia. Analytical work consisted of gold by fire assay with atomic absorption finish plus multi-element inductively coupled plasma atomic emission spectrography (ICP-AES) analyses using 4-acid digestion. All samples collected in 2013 were cataloged in the field and shipped via ground transport directly to Acme’s or ALS Minerals’ preparation facility in Fairbanks by an Avalon contractor. Sample reject material from 2012 was submitted as check assays to be prepared by ALS Minerals’ facility in Fairbanks and analyzed at their Vancouver, British Columbia facility. At the conclusion of the 2013 field season, ALS Minerals analyzed 57% of the samples and Acme analyzed 43% of the samples.
As of the date of this document, there has been no new geochemical sampling work conducted on the Tetlin project during 2014. We believe the parties working on sampling of the Tetlin Properties followed industry accepted procedures for sample preparation, analysis and security.
Sampling, Analysis and Security
During 2009 and 2010, Avalon personnel randomly inserted 230 standards and 79 blanks into the flow of soil, rock, pan concentrate, and stream sediment samples prior to shipment to the analytical lab. Blanks consisted of Browns Hill Quarry basalt, an unmineralized Quaternary basalt flow from the Fairbanks Mining District, Alaska. Extensive previous analysis of this same blank rock type has given Avalon a large geochemical database for use on a comparative basis. Three different commercial standards provided by Analytical Solutions were used during 2009 and 2010. Values in these standards ranged from 0.852 ppm to 7.390 ppm gold. The quality assurance/quality control procedure was completed at the Avalon warehouse in Fairbanks. Evaluation of both the blanks and standards indicate no unacceptable sample results in the blanks or standards that were submitted.
During 2011, Avalon personnel randomly inserted 259 standards and 87 blanks into the flow of soil, rock, pan concentrate, stream sediment, and drill core samples prior to shipment to the analytical lab. Blanks consisted of Browns Hill Quarry basalt, an unmineralized Quaternary basalt flow from the Fairbanks Mining District, Alaska. Extensive previous analysis of this same blank rock type has given Avalon a large geochemical database for use on a comparative basis. Thirteen different commercial standards provided by Analytical Solutions were used during 2011. Values in these standards ranged from 0.049 ppm to 2 ppm gold. One commercial standard provided by Rock Labs was used during 2011. The standard value is 0.203 ppm gold. The quality assurance/quality control procedure was completed at the Avalon warehouse in Fairbanks.
In order to test the reproducibility of geochemical results obtained from auger sampling, a number of the Chief Danny soil sample sites from 2010 were revisited and re-sampled during 2011. By reproducing samples at previously visited sites Avalon can test for the variability of the sampling procedure. The re-sampled sites consisted of 18 sites around the Saddle zone in the 2011 Chief Danny expansion grid and 18 sites at the 2010 Chief Danny grid. All of the re-sampled sites were located along pre-cut IP geophysical lines. This not only allowed Avalon to test for the consistency of the sampling method but also provided further ground-truthing data for comparison with the IP data collected in 2010. The geochemical assay results from the replicate samples did show some variation when compared to the original samples; however these discrepancies were likely a function of the inherent variability in the soil chemistry rather than inconsistencies in the sampling method. For example, one of the 2011 replicate samples (sample #634112) taken from the 2010 Chief Danny grid produced anomalous gold and copper values at 994 ppb gold and 170 ppm copper; the highest grade soil sample taken during 2011. The 2010 soil sample collected at this site produced anomalous gold
and copper values at 494 ppb gold and 216 ppm copper. The conclusion drawn from the soil re-sampling effort is that strong gold, copper and arsenic values can be duplicated and that as long as sample quality remains high, neither false positives nor false negatives are likely in the soil sample data.
During 2012, Avalon personnel randomly inserted 754 standards and 119 blanks into the flow of soil, rock, and drill core samples prior to shipment to the analytical labs. Blanks consisted of Browns Hill Quarry basalt. Thirteen different commercial standards provided by Analytical Solutions were used during 2012. Values in these standards ranged from 0.334 ppm to 7.15 ppm gold. Five different commercial standards provided by Rock Labs were used during 2012. Values in these standards ranged from 0.085 ppm to 3.562 ppm gold. The quality assurance/quality control procedure was completed at the Avalon warehouse in Fairbanks.
Due to the high grade gold and copper values observed in drill holes from the Peak Zone during the 2012 drilling program, the rejects from surface to 487 feet depth from drill hole TET1218 drill holes were resubmitted to ALS Minerals for gold and ICP analyses using identical preparations methods as used for the original Acme samples. A comparison of the values from the two labs exhibits good accuracy and repeatability for all of the elements of interest, even at extremely high gold values. In addition, Avalon re-submitted 109 original drill core samples to Acme for rerun gold analyses. Values in the re-assayed samples ranged from 83% more than original value to 125% lower than original value and averaged 11% lower than original Acme analytical results. These variances are thought to be due to nature sample variability since samples and blanks did not show such variability.
During 2013, Avalon personnel inserted 1001 standards and 304 blanks into the flow of soil, rock, and drill core samples prior to shipment to the analytical labs. Blanks consisted of Browns Hill Quarry basalt. Fifteen different commercial standards provided by Analytical Solutions were used during 2013. Values in these standards ranged from 0.514 ppm to 9.25 ppm gold. Six different commercial standards provided by Rock Labs were used during 2013. Values in these standards ranged from 0.084 ppm to 3.562 ppm gold. The quality assurance/quality control procedure was completed on-site at the Avalon warehouse in Tok, Alaska.
To further check the high grade gold and copper values observed in drill holes from the Peak Zone during the 2012 drilling, the rejects from 6 drill holes (666 samples) were resubmitted to ALS Minerals for gold and ICP analyses using identical preparations methods as used for the original Acme samples. Holes that were rich in gold and copper and holes that were rich in silver and copper were selected. The results of these assays continue to show good accuracy and repeatability for all of the elements of interest.
As of the date of this document, there has been no new geochemical sampling work conducted on the Tetlin project during 2014.
Rare Earth Elements
Effective December 1, 2012, we abandoned our State of Alaska rare earth element claims consisting of the Alatna, Spooky, Wolf and Swift claims to devote more time and resources to our Federal claims at Stone Rock and Salmon Bay and our gold exploration. Our initial rare earth element exploration activities included reconnaissance geologic mapping, soil sampling and rock sampling. Additional exploration work is required to advance these projects, but we did not conduct any significant exploration activities in 2013 or 2014. We have decided to abandon our Federal claims at Salmon Bay and Stone Rock projects effective September 1, 2014. We do not expect to explore for rare earth elements this summer and have no current plans to conduct exploration work on these claims.
Acquisition of Other Properties
The Company anticipates from time to time acquiring additional properties in Alaska for exploration, subject to the availability of funds. The acquisitions may include leases or similar rights from Alaska Native corporations or may include filing Federal or State of Alaska mining claims by staking claims for exploration and development. Acquiring additional properties will likely result in additional expense to the Company for minimum royalties, minimum rents and annual exploratory work requirements.
Overriding Royalty Interest
Pursuant to the Amended ORRI Agreement dated September 15, 2010, in consideration of JEX’s assignment of its 50% interest in the properties to Contango Mining, the Company conveyed an overriding royalty interest to JEX which provides that JEX will receive a 3% of 8/8ths overriding royalty interest on all minerals mined from the Original Properties held by the Company as of the date of the Amended ORRI Agreement. Pursuant to an Advisory Agreement dated September 6, 2012 with JEX, the Company agreed to pay JEX a 2% of 8/8ths ORRI on all minerals mined from properties acquired by the Company after July 1, 2012 in the State of Alaska. In addition, we will pay the Tetlin Village Council a production royalty ranging from 2.0% to 5.0% should we deliver to a purchaser on a commercial basis, precious or non-precious metals derived from the Tetlin Lease. The
Company has purchased 0.75% of this production royalty for $225,000, which reduces the production royalty to a range of 1.25% to 4.25%. On or before July 15, 2020, the Tetlin Village Council has the option to repurchase the 0.75% production royalty for $450,000, or a portion thereof.
Item 3.