Item 2. PROPERTIES
The Company does not directly hold title to any material property. In connection with the Closing of the Transactions with Royal Gold in January 2015, the Company contributed (or caused to be contributed) to the Joint Venture Company the Peak Gold Joint Venture Property and other related assets. At the Closing, the Company and Royal Gold, through their wholly-owned subsidiaries, entered into the JV LLCA. The Joint Venture Company now holds title to the Peak Gold Joint Venture Property. The Peak Gold Joint Venture Property is located in the State of Alaska, and consists of the Tetlin Lease and unpatented mining claims. The Peak Gold Joint Venture Property is the only material property of the Joint Venture Company. None of the known prospects on the Peak Gold Joint Venture Property are known to host quantifiable mineral reserves as defined by SEC Industry Guide 7.
The Company believes that the Joint Venture Company holds good title to its properties in accordance with standards generally accepted in the minerals industry. As is customary in the mining industry, the Company conducted only a preliminary title examination at the time the Company acquired the Tetlin Lease. The Joint Venture Company also conducted a title examination prior to the assignment of the Tetlin Lease to the Joint Venture Company and performed certain curative title work. Before the Joint Venture Company begins any mining activities, however, it might conduct a full title examination and perform curative work on any defects that it deems significant.
Lease with Tetlin Tribal Council
JEX entered into the Tetlin Lease with the Tetlin Tribal Council, effective as of July 15, 2008. In November 2010, the Tetlin Lease was assigned to the Company and in January 2015, the Tetlin Lease was assigned to the Joint Venture Company.
The Tetlin Lease covers an estimated 675,000 acres of land for an initial term of ten years, which was extended for an additional ten years to July 5, 2028 and so long thereafter as the Joint Venture Company continues conducting exploration or mining operations on the Tetlin Lease. The Joint Venture Company was required to spend $350,000 annually until July 15, 2018 in exploration costs pursuant to the Tetlin Lease. The Joint Venture Company satisfied this work commitment requirement for the full lease term through 2018 because exploration funds spent in any year in excess of $350,000 are credited toward future years’ exploration cost requirements. The Tetlin Lease also provides that the Joint Venture Company will pay the Tetlin Tribal Council a production royalty ranging from 2.0% to 5.0% depending on the type of metal produced and the year of production. The Company has paid the Tetlin Tribal Council $225,000 in exchange for reducing the production royalty payable to them by 0.75%. These payments lowered the production royalty to a range of 1.25% to 4.25% depending on the type of metal produced and the year of production. The Tetlin Tribal Council had the option, on or before July 15, 2020, to increase its production royalty by (i) 0.25% by payment to the Joint Venture Company of $150,000, (ii) 0.50% by payment to the Joint Venture Company of $300,000, or (iii) 0.75% by payment to the Joint Venture Company of $450,000. The Management Committee extended this option for the Tetlin Tribal Council until November 15, 2020.
Until such time as production royalties begin, the Joint Venture Company will pay the Tetlin Tribal Council an advance minimum royalty of approximately $75,000 per year, plus an inflation adjustment. Additionally, the Joint Venture Company will pay Royal Gold a production royalty of 3.0% should it deliver to a purchaser on a commercial basis gold or associated minerals derived from the Tetlin Lease.
State of Alaska Mining Claims
A listing of the Joint Venture Company’s State of Alaska unpatented mining claims as of June 30, 2020 for gold and associated minerals are listed in Exhibits 99.1, 99.3, 99.4, 99.5, 99.6, and 99.8. These mining claims are not known to host quantifiable mineral reserves as defined by SEC Industry Guide 7.
Location of and Access to our Properties
The Peak Gold Joint Venture Property is located in the Tetlin Hills and Mentasta Mountains of eastern interior Alaska, 300 kilometers southeast of the city of Fairbanks and 20 kilometers southeast of Tok, Alaska. The Tetlin Lease covers an area measuring approximately 80 kilometers north-south by 60 kilometers east-west in eastern Interior Alaska.
The Peak Gold Joint Venture Property is accessible via helicopter and via road. The 23-mile long Tetlin Village Road is an all-weather gravel road connecting the village with the town of Tok on the Alaska Highway. The majority of our Peak Gold Joint Venture Property is accessible only via helicopter, although many winter trails exist in the Tetlin Hills and Mentasta Mountains in the northern and southwestern parts of the properties, respectively. Winter trails link Tetlin Village to the village of Old Tetlin and continue south to the Tetlin River airstrip, a 1,500 foot long unmaintained gravel strip located in the Tetlin River Valley. Winter trails also provide access to the Tuck Creek valley from the village of Mentasta on the Tok Cutoff Highway.
Two seasonal dirt roads have been permitted and constructed to allow surface access to the Chief Danny gold-copper-silver prospect in the northern Tetlin Hills. Both of these roads begin along the Tetlin Village Road and extend to the Chief Danny project and access to both roads is controlled by gates at their junction with the Tetlin Village Road.
The paved Alaska Highway passes near the northern edge of the Peak Gold Joint Venture Property as does the southern terminus of the Taylor Highway where it joins the Alaska Highway at Tetlin Junction. The 23-mile long Tetlin Village Road provides year-round access to the northern Tetlin Hills, linking Tetlin Village to the Alaska Highway. Buried electrical and fiber-optic communications cables follow this road corridor and link Tetlin Village to the Tok power and communications grid. The Tok public electric facility is capable of generating up to 2 megawatts of power, and the nearest high capacity public electric facilities to the Peak Gold Joint Venture Property are in Delta Junction, 107 road miles northwest of the Peak Gold Joint Venture Property and Glennallen, 138 road miles southwest of the Peak Gold Joint Venture Property. The Company does not have any plant or equipment at the Peak Gold Joint Venture Property, and relies on contractors for the Joint Venture Company to perform work. The Company does not believe the Peak Gold Joint Venture Property was explored for minerals prior to exploration activities of the Company and the Joint Venture Company.
The map below depicts the Peak Gold Joint Venture Property:
Mineral Exploration
The Joint Venture Company controls an estimated 860,000 acres consisting of the Tetlin Lease and State of Alaska mining claims for the exploration of gold and associated minerals. To date, the Joint Venture Company's gold exploration has concentrated on the Tetlin Lease, with only a limited amount of work performed on the Tok, Eagle, Bush, West Fork, Triple Z, and Noah claims.
The Joint Venture Management initiated a calendar year 2018 exploration program with an approved budget of $10.7 million, of which the Company’s share was approximately $6.1 million. The 2018 exploration program was completed in October 2018. The Company contributed $5.4 million to the Joint Venture Company during calendar year 2018. The budget included an extensive 74 line kilometers of ground geophysics program utilizing both Induced Polarization (“IP”) and Titan EM techniques. Surveys were carried out on targets within an 8-kilometer radius of Main Peak to identify targets similar to Main and North Peak and two targets in the southeastern part of the Tetlin Lease, Copper Hill and Taixtsalda. Titan EM surveys were carried out on three targets identified from airborne magnetics surveys as porphyry type signatures. The program drill tested a number of targets within an 8-kilometer radius of the Main Peak deposit. In addition to the exploration work, during the 2018 exploration program, the Joint Venture conducted engineering studies along with metallurgical testing to support the completion of a Preliminary Economic Assessment of the Company’s Main Peak and North Peak resource areas near Tok, Alaska.
The Management Committee approved an exploration budget for calendar 2019 of $6.9 million, of which the Company’s share was approximately $4.1 million. The program was completed in October 2019 below budget. The program included ground geophysics utilizing IP and soil samples within the greater Chief Danny area. A further program of reconnaissance work, drilling and airborne Versatile Time Domain Electromagnetics (“VTEM”) survey was completed in the Hona and Eagle claims blocks to follow up stream sediment sampling work completed in 2017. Also included was soil sampling and ground geophysics work on the Triple Z target. The program drill tested targets adjacent to the Main Peak deposit, on the Hona claims and a target in the North Saddle area. The budget also included funding to initiate a program of surface and groundwater characterization to support future permitting efforts. The Company funded a total of $4.1 million to the Joint Venture Company during calendar year 2019, which related to both the 2019 and 2018 exploration programs.
Due to the effects of COVID-19 and for the safety of the Joint Venture Company’s field personnel and the surrounding community, the Management Committee approved a $2.7 million budget for calendar year 2020 that would serve to care for and maintain the Peak Gold Joint Venture Property, and postpone new exploration until conditions permit. The Company’s share of the budget is approximately $1.6 million, of which $1.0 million had been funded as of June 30, 2020. The Company’s ability to contribute funds to the Joint Venture Company in proportion to its 60% interest in the Joint Venture Company will depend on its ability to raise capital. If the Company is unable to fund its contribution to the approved programs and budgets for the Joint Venture Company, its interest in the Joint Venture Company will be diluted.
From inception to June 30, 2020, the Joint Venture Company has incurred $47.1 million in exploration program expenditures. As of June 30, 2020, Royal Gold had funded a total of $37.0 million (including the initial investment of $5.0 million) and earned a 40.0% interest in the Joint Venture Company.
The exploration effort on the Tetlin Lease has resulted in identifying two mineral deposits (Main Peak and North Peak) and several other gold and copper prospects following drilling programs starting in 2011. Surface, bedrock, and stream sediment data on the Tetlin Lease as well as on the Eagle, Noah and Tok state of Alaska claims adjacent to the Tetlin Lease have been gathered during the summer exploration programs. There was no exploration program in 2014 or 2020. None of the exploration targets are known to host quantifiable commercial mineral reserves and none are near or adjacent to other known significant gold or copper deposits. There has been no recorded past placer or lode mining on Peak Gold Joint Venture Property, and the Company and the Joint Venture Company are the only entities known to have conducted drilling operations on the Peak Gold Joint Venture Property.
The majority of the Peak Gold Joint Venture Property is hosted within the Yukon-Tanana Terrane (“YTT”), a regionally extensive package of metamorphic rocks. Rocks of the YTT on the Peak Gold Joint Venture Property consist primarily of more deformed, higher temperature metamorphic rocks on the northern third of the project and less deformed, lower temperature metamorphic rocks to the south. Country rocks on the Peak Gold Joint Venture Property are intruded by granitic rocks that have not been well mapped. Large-scale structural features within the Peak Gold Joint Venture Property are closely tied to movements along the Tintina-Kaltag and Denali-Farewell fault systems, two continental-scale faults between which are a series of district and prospect-scale northeast, northwest and east-west structures. Limited exposures in the northern half of the property make identification of these structures difficult. Prospect to hand-sample scale folding has been noted throughout the project area.
Although alpine glaciation has affected elevations above 4,500 feet on the southern edge of the Peak Gold Joint Venture Property, most of the Peak Gold Joint Venture Property escaped Pleistocene continental glaciation. However, due to its proximity to continental glaciers to the north and east, the Peak Gold Joint Venture Property was covered by a variable thickness of wind-blown silt ranging up to 10 meters thick. This extremely fine-grained, metal-barren silt effectively masks the geochemical signature of underlying bedrock containing gold-copper-silver mineralization. Following deposition of this silt layer, the Peak Gold Joint Venture Property was subject to an extensive period of surface weathering, which now extends 200-300 feet below surface.
From a regional perspective, the Peak Gold Joint Venture Property is located in the Tintina Gold Belt in rocks that are highly prospective for gold deposits as well as porphyry copper-molybdenum-gold deposits. These two genetically different types of mineralization overlap in eastern Interior Alaska and the western Yukon Territory and are host to dozens of known prospects, deposits and active mines. In addition, rocks on the southern edge of the Peak Gold Joint Venture Property are prospective for nickel-copper-platinum group element deposits. Prior to its discovery in 2009, the style of mineralization discovered on the Chief Danny prospect on the Peak Gold Joint Venture Property was unknown in Interior Alaska. Diamond drilling results from 2011 through 2018 have revealed the presence of a distinctive suite of elements and minerals at the Main Peak, North Peak and Discovery Zones that do not match the typical characteristics of gold deposits of the Tintina Gold Belt but do share several diagnostic characteristics of gold-copper-silver skarn deposits, possibly as part of a larger porphyry copper-molybdenum-gold system. “ Skarn” is a term that refers to a distinctive class of mineral deposits formed where limestone-bearing rocks are intruded by hot, fluid-bearing granitic rocks. The Main Peak and North Peak Zones mineralization most closely resembles the gold-sulfide skarns mined at the Fortitude deposit in the Battle Mountain Mining District of central Nevada.
Hona Prospect Area
The Hona Prospect area is located on Alaska State mining claims approximately 25 kilometers west of the Main Peak deposit. A reconnaissance program was carried out on the Hona claim block in 2017, which consisted of 363 pan concentrate and 364 stream sediment samples. Anomalous gold and copper values were found during the 2017 program and in 2019 when follow-up reconnaissance work was completed. This effort consisted of taking 615 rock chip samples and surface mapping. The two programs identified three target areas, Hona 1, Hona 2 and Hona 3. Exploration drilling in 2019, consisting of two core holes, totaling 1,301 meters, tested a portion of the Hona 2 target. As part of the 2019 program, 1,006 line-km of helicopter-borne magnetic and VTEM survey was completed over a portion of the Hona Prospect.
The map below depicts the location of the two core holes drilled at the Hona 2 target along with rock chip sampling results and surface geology.
Significant Drill Intercepts from the 2019 Program. Sample intervals are calculated using 0.5 grams per tonne (gpt) lower cut off for gold with no internal waste less than cutoff grade that is greater than 3 meters in thickness. Intercepts shown are drill intercept lengths. True width of mineralization is unknown. The grade cutoff for gold (Au) is 0.5 gpt; for silver (Ag) is 10 gpt; and for copper (Cu) is 0.1%. The following table summarizes the significant drilling results obtained for the complete 2019 Program:
Chief Danny Prospect
The Chief Danny Prospect Area currently is the most advanced exploration target on the Tetlin Lease and is comprised of several distinct mineralized areas: the Main Peak Zone, Discovery Zone, West Peak Zone, North Peak Zone, Connector Zone, Saddle Zone and the 7 O’clock area. The Chief Danny prospect was discovered during rock, stream sediment and pan concentrate sampling in 2009 and since then has been explored using top of bedrock soil auger sampling, trenching, ground IP geophysics, airborne magnetic and resistivity surveys and core drilling. Results from this work indicate the presence of a zoned metal-bearing system consisting of a gold-copper-iron enriched core covering six square miles at Chief Danny South (includes Main Peak, Discovery, West Peak, and North Peak/Blue Moon) and a fault-offset arsenic-gold enriched zone to the north covering three square miles at the Saddle Zone. The Company has conducted extensive drilling on the Main Peak, North Peak, and Connector Zones. The Company has also conducted some environmental base line studies on the areas surrounding the Chief Danny prospect, as well as airborne magnetic and resistivity programs. From 2009 through June 30, 2020, the Company conducted field-related exploration work at the Chief Danny Prospect, including collecting the following samples:
The map below depicts the grade times thickness in the Main Peak, North Peak, and West Peak zones:
During the quarters ended June 30, 2020 and March 31, 2020, the Joint Venture Company spent approximately $0.5 million and $0.6 million, respectively, on program activities and related expenses.
2019 Exploration Program. During the quarter ended December 31, 2019, the Joint Venture Company spent an estimated $1.6 million on program activities, including metallurgical testing, geochemical data analyses, geophysical surveys landholding fees and other related expenses.
During the quarter ended September 30, 2019 the Joint Venture Company spent an estimated $2.8 million on program activities, including 7.6 line kilometers of IP geophysical surveys and 125 soil auger sampling and 146 rock chip samples within the Chief Danny area. Exploration drilling consisted of 1,771 meters in four holes, which included three holes for 1,117 meters in the East Peak zone and one hole of 654 meters at the North Saddle zone.
The map below depicts the location of the core holes drilled in the East Peak and North Saddle zones.
Significant Drill Intercepts from the 2019 Program. Sample intervals are calculated using 0.5 grams per tonne (gpt) lower cut off for gold with no internal waste less than cutoff grade that is greater than 3 meters in thickness. Intercepts shown are drill intercept lengths. True width of mineralization is unknown. The grade cutoff for gold (Au) is 0.5 gpt; for silver (Ag) is 10 gpt; and for copper (Cu) is 0.1%. The following table summarizes the significant drilling results obtained for the complete 2019 Program:
2019 Exploration Program - continued. During the quarter ended June 30, 2019, the Joint Venture Company spent an estimated $1.7 million on program activities, including 23.3 line kilometers of IP geophysical surveys and 1,363 soil auger sampling within the Chief Danny area. Drill targets were assessed and initial drilling to test East Peak and North Saddle started in mid-August. In addition, seven monitor wells were installed in and around the deposit area to initiate groundwater characterized to support baseline date collection.
During the quarter ended March 31, 2019, the Joint Venture Company spent an estimated $0.3 million on program activities, including metallurgical testing, geochemical data analyses, landholding fees and other related expenses.
2018 Exploration Program - Phase I. During the quarter ending December 31, 2018, 3.5 line-kilometers of IP surveys, 35.0 line-kilometers of Titan DCIP/MT surveys and 4,427 meters of core drilling were completed. The Joint Venture Company spent an estimated $4.6 million, during the quarter, on program activities, including drilling, geochemical analyses, landholding fees and other related expenses. Exploration drilling consisted of 2,177 meters in six holes in the North Saddle Area, 1,403 meters in six holes in Copper Hill, 207 meters in two holes in 2 O’clock, 261 meters in one hole in 8 O’clock, 180 meters in one hole in Main Peak and 200 meters in one northeast of North Peak. In the 2018 field season, 6,189 meters of drilling in 28 holes were completed.
Metallurgical testing of 19 composite samples from the Main Peak deposit were completed and showed good metallurgical response to direct cyanidation. The Main Peak testing along with previously completed metallurgical testing on North Peak were used as the basis for the Preliminary Economic Assessment completed in September 2018.
The map below depicts the location of the core holes drilled in the 8 O’clock, 2 O’clock, Main Peak and North Saddle zones:
Significant Drill Intercepts from the 2018 Phase I Program. Sample intervals are calculated using 0.5 grams per tonne (gpt) lower cut off for gold with no internal waste less than cutoff grade that is greater than 3 meters in thickness. Intercepts shown are drill intercept lengths. True width of mineralization is unknown. The grade cutoff for gold (Au) is 0.5 gpt; for silver (Ag) is 10 gpt; and for copper (Cu) is 0.1%. The following table summarizes the significant drilling results obtained for the complete Phase I of the 2018 Program:
2018 Exploration Program - Phase I (continued). During the quarter ending June 30, 2018, 30.6 line-kilometers of IP surveys, 10.6 line-kilometers of Titan DCIP/MT surveys and 1,762 meters of core drilling were completed. The Joint Venture Company spent an estimated $4.0 million on program activities during the quarter, including drilling, geochemical analyses, landholding fees and other related expenses. Exploration drilling consisted of 1,518 meters in ten holes in the 2 O’clock area and 244 meters in two holes in the 8 O’clock area. To date, the Joint Venture Company has also completed 1,370 meters of core drilling at Copper Hill, and has drilled the North Saddle Zone for porphyry prospects.
Nineteen composite samples from the Main Peak orebody and nineteen composite samples from the North Peak orebody were the subject of ongoing metallurgical testing in support of the Preliminary Economic Evaluation completed in September. Test results support the economic processing of Main and North Peak materials in a conventional gold processing plant using traditional mining methods.
The map below depicts the location of the core holes drilled in the 8 O’clock, 2 O’clock, and North Saddle zones during the 2018 Phase I Program:
The map below depicts the location of the core holes drilled in the Copper Hill zone during the 2018 Phase I Program:
Significant Drill Intercepts from the 2018 Phase I Program. Sample intervals are calculated using 0.5 grams per tonne (gpt) lower cut off for gold with no internal waste less than cutoff grade that is greater than 3 meters in thickness. Intercepts shown are drill intercept lengths. True width of mineralization is unknown. The grade cutoff for gold (Au) is 0.5 gpt; for silver (Ag) is 10 gpt; and for copper (Cu) is 0.1%. For the 2018 exploration program, no significant intervals were encountered in the drilling.
Geochemical Analysis and Security
All samples submitted for the 2016 and Phase I 2017 programs were prepared for assay by ALS Minerals at their facilities in Fairbanks, Alaska and analyzed at their Vancouver, British Columbia and Reno, Nevada facilities. Analytical work consisted of gold by fire assay with atomic absorption finish plus multi-element inductively coupled plasma atomic emission spectrography (ICP-AES) analyses using 4-acid digestion. All samples collected in 2016 and Phase I 2017 were cataloged in the field and shipped via ground transport directly to ALS Minerals’ preparation facility in Fairbanks by an Avalon contractor. The Company believes the parties working on sampling of the Peak Gold Joint Venture Property followed industry accepted procedures for sample preparation, analysis and security.
All samples from the Phase II and III 2017 program, Phase I 2018 program, and the 2019 program were prepared for assay by Bureau Veritas Minerals at their facilities in Fairbanks, Alaska and analyzed at their Vancouver, British Columbia and Reno, Nevada facilities. Analytical work consisted of gold by fire assay with atomic absorption finish plus multi-element inductively coupled plasma atomic emission spectrography (ICP-AES) analyses using 4-acid digestion. All samples collected in the Phase II and III 2017, Phase I 2018, and the 2019 program were cataloged in the field and shipped via ground transport directly to Bureau Veritas Minerals’ preparation facility in Fairbanks by an Avalon contractor. The Company believes the parties working on sampling of the Peak Gold Joint Venture Property followed industry accepted procedures for sample preparation, analysis and security.
Sampling, Analysis and Security
During the 2016 programs, Avalon personnel inserted 1,986 blanks, standards and replicates into the flow of soil, rock, and drill core samples prior to shipment to the analytical labs. For the 2017 programs, through June 30, 2017 , Avalon inserted 1,103 blanks, standards and replicates into the flow of soil, rock, and drill core samples prior to shipment to the analytical labs. Blanks consisted of Browns Hill Quarry basalt. Twenty-five different commercial standards provided by Analytical Solutions were used during 2016. Values in these standards ranged from 0.012 ppm to 7.15 ppm gold. Four different commercial standards provided by Rock Labs were used during 2016. Values in these standards ranged from 0.077 ppm to 1.802 ppm gold. The quality assurance/quality control procedure was completed on-site at the Avalon warehouse in Tok, Alaska.
During 2017 programs, Avalon inserted 1,973 blanks, standards, duplicates and replicates into the flow of soil, rock, pan concentrate, stream sediment and drill core samples prior to shipment to the analytical labs. Blanks consisted of Browns Hill Quarry basalt. Twenty two different commercial standards provided by Analytical Solutions were used during 2017. Values in these standards ranged from 0.012 ppm to 14.18 ppm gold. Three different commercial standards provided by Rock Labs were used during 2017. Values in these standards ranged from 0.077 ppm to 1.802 ppm gold. The quality assurance/quality control procedure was completed on-site at the Avalon warehouse in Tok, Alaska.
During 2018, Avalon inserted 93 blanks, 310 standards, 81 duplicates and 81 replicates into the flow of rock, soil, pan concentrate, stream sediment and drill core samples prior to shipment to the analytical labs. Blanks consisted of Browns Hill Quarry basalt. Eighteen different commercial standards provided by Analytical Solutions and Rocklabs were used during 2018. Values in these standards ranged from 0.077 ppm to 6.66 ppm gold. The quality assurance/quality control procedure was completed on-site at the Avalon warehouse in Tok, Alaska.
During 2019, Avalon inserted 88 blanks, 397 standards, 54 duplicates and 54 replicates into the flow of rock, soil, RC and drill core samples prior to shipment to the analytical labs. Blanks consisted of Browns Hill Quarry basalt. Twenty different commercial standards provided by Analytical Solutions and Rocklabs were used during 2019 (through August 23, 2019). Values in these standards ranged from 0.016 ppm to 6.66 ppm gold. The quality assurance/quality control procedure was completed on-site at the Avalon warehouse in Tok, Alaska.
Rare Earth Elements
While the Company previously acquired state of Alaska and federal unpatented mining claims for the exploration of rare earth elements, it has abandoned its rare earth element claims to devote more time and resources to gold exploration.
Acquisition of Other Properties
The Joint Venture Company anticipates from time to time acquiring additional properties in Alaska for exploration, subject to the availability of funds. The acquisitions may include leases or similar rights from Alaska Native corporations or may include filing Federal or State of Alaska mining claims by staking claims for exploration. Acquiring additional properties will likely result in additional expense to the Company for minimum royalties, minimum rents and annual exploratory work requirements.
Item 3.