Item 2. PROPERTIES
The Company does not directly hold title to any material property. In connection with the closing of the Transactions with Royal Gold in January 2015 (the "Closing"), the Company contributed (or caused to be contributed) to the Joint Venture Company the Peak Gold Joint Venture Property and other related assets. At the Closing, the Company and Royal Gold, through their wholly-owned subsidiaries, entered into the JV LLCA. The Joint Venture Company now holds title to the Peak Gold Joint Venture Property. The Peak Gold Joint Venture Property is located in the State of Alaska, and consists of the Tetlin Lease and unpatented mining claims. The Peak Gold Joint Venture Property is the only material property of the Joint Venture Company. None of the known prospects on the Peak Gold Joint Venture Property are known to host quantifiable mineral reserves as defined by SEC Industry Guide 7.
The Company believes that the Joint Venture Company holds good title to its properties in accordance with standards generally accepted in the minerals industry. As is customary in the mining industry, the Company conducted only a preliminary title examination at the time the Company acquired the Tetlin Lease. The Joint Venture Company also conducted a title examination prior to the assignment of the Tetlin Lease to the Joint Venture Company and performed certain curative title work. Before the Joint Venture Company begins any mining activities, however, it might conduct a full title examination and perform curative work on any defects that it deems significant.
Lease with Tetlin Village Council
JEX entered into the Tetlin Lease with the Tetlin Tribal Council, effective as of July 15, 2008. In November 2010, the Tetlin Lease was assigned to the Company and in January 2015, the Tetlin Lease was assigned to the Joint Venture Company.
The Tetlin Lease covers an estimated 675,000 acres of land for an initial term of ten years which was extended for ten years to July 5, 2028 and so long thereafter as the Joint Venture Company continues conducting exploration or mining operations on the Tetlin Lease. The Joint Venture Company is required to spend $350,000 annually until July 15, 2018 in exploration costs pursuant to the Tetlin Lease. However, exploration expenditures to date have already satisfied this work commitment requirement for the full lease term through 2018 because exploration funds spent in any year in excess of $350,000 are credited toward future years’ exploration cost requirements. The Tetlin Lease also provides that the Joint Venture Company will pay the Tetlin Tribal Council a production royalty ranging from 2.0% to 5.0% depending on the type of metal produced and the year of production. As of June 30, 2018, the Company has paid the Tetlin Tribal Council $225,000 in exchange for reducing the production royalty payable to them by 0.75%. These payments lowered the production royalty to a range of 1.25% to 4.25% depending on the type of metal produced and the year of production. On or before July 15, 2020, the Tetlin Tribal Council has the option to increase its production royalty by (i) 0.25% by payment to the Joint Venture Company of $150,000, (ii) 0.50% by payment to the Joint Venture Company of $300,000, or (iii) 0.75% by payment to the Joint Venture Company of $450,000.
Until such time as production royalties begin, the Joint Venture Company will pay the Tetlin Village Council an advance minimum royalty of approximately $75,000 per year, plus an inflation adjustment. Additionally, the Joint Venture Company will pay Royal Gold a production royalty of 3.0% should it deliver to a purchaser on a commercial basis gold or associated minerals derived from the Tetlin Lease.
Gold Mining Claims
A listing of the Joint Venture Company's State of Alaska unpatented mining claims as of June 30, 2018 for gold and associated minerals are listed in Exhibits 99.1, 99.3, 99.4, 99.5, 99.6, and 99.8. These mining claims are not known to host quantifiable mineral reserves as defined by SEC Industry Guide 7.
Location of and Access to our Properties
The Peak Gold Joint Venture Property is located in the Tetlin Hills and Mentasta Mountains of eastern interior Alaska, 300 kilometers southeast of the city of Fairbanks and 20 kilometers southeast of Tok, Alaska. The Tetlin Lease covers an area measuring approximately 80 kilometers north-south by 60 kilometers east-west in eastern Interior Alaska.
The Peak Gold Joint Venture Property is accessible via helicopter and via road. The 23-mile long Tetlin Village Road is an all-weather gravel road connecting the village with the town of Tok on the Alaska Highway. The majority of our Peak Gold Joint Venture Property is accessible only via helicopter, although many winter trails exist in the Tetlin Hills and Mentasta Mountains in the northern and southwestern parts of the Properties, respectively. Winter trails link Tetlin Village to the village of Old Tetlin and continue south to the Tetlin River airstrip, a 1,500 foot long unmaintained gravel strip located in the Tetlin River Valley. Winter trails also provide access to the Tuck Creek valley from the village of Mentasta on the Tok Cutoff Highway.
Two seasonal dirt roads have been permitted and constructed to allow surface access to the Chief Danny gold-copper-silver prospect in the northern Tetlin Hills. Both of these roads begin along the Tetlin Village Road and extend to the Chief Danny project and access to both roads is controlled by gates at their junction with the Tetlin Village Road.
The paved Alaska Highway passes near the northern edge of the Peak Gold Joint Venture Property as does the southern terminus of the Taylor Highway where it joins the Alaska Highway at Tetlin Junction. The 23-mile long Tetlin Village road provides year-round access to the northern Tetlin Hills, linking Tetlin Village to the Alaska Highway. Buried electrical and fiber-optic communications cables follow this road corridor and link Tetlin Village to the Tok power and communications grid. The Tok public electric facility is capable of generating up to 2 megawatts of power, and the nearest high capacity public electric facilities to the Peak Gold Joint Venture Property are in Delta Junction, 107 road miles northwest of the Peak Gold joint venture project and Glennallen, 138 road miles southwest of the Peak Gold Joint Venture Property. The Company does not have any plant or equipment at the Peak Gold Joint Venture Property, and relies on contractors for the Joint Venture Company to perform work. The Company does not believe the Peak Gold Joint Venture Property was explored for minerals prior to exploration activities of the Company and the Joint Venture Company.
The map below depicts the Peak Gold Joint Venture Property:
Gold Exploration
The Joint Venture Company controls an estimated 850,000 acres consisting of the Tetlin Lease and State of Alaska mining claims for the exploration of gold and associated minerals. To date, our gold exploration has concentrated on the Tetlin Lease, with only a limited amount of work performed on the Tok, Eagle, Bush, West Fork, Triple Z, and Noah claims.
The Joint Venture Company initiated a summer of 2015 exploration program on the Tetlin Lease. The work program anticipated spending $5.0 million with a possible expansion of the work program in early fall if drilling results warranted further work. The drilling program included exploration targets that were helicopter-supported at the Tors, Saddle, North Saddle and Saddle Skarn targets and road-supported work at the Peak Zone area. Most of the initial work program (Phase I) was completed by early August with assay results received by early September. On August 31, 2015, the Joint Venture Company approved a budget of up to approximately $4.0 million for additional exploration work to be completed before the drilling season ended in October 2015 and incurred aggregate cost of approximately $6.8 million for the calendar 2015 exploration program.
The Joint Venture Company initiated a calendar 2016 Phase I exploration program consisting of drilling the North Peak target area which began in February 2016 on the Tetlin Lease with an approved budget of $4.4 million. An additional budget was approved for spending up to an additional $6.8 million during the remainder of calendar 2016. The Joint Venture Company initiated a 2016 Phase II exploration drilling program in May 2016, which was completed in September 2016. A Phase III exploration drilling program was initiated in October 2016 and completed in November. The project incurred an aggregate cost in calendar 2016 of approximately $10.6 million.
The Joint Venture Company initiated a calendar 2017 Phase I exploration program consisting of drilling the North Peak target area and testing the True Blue Moon target area which began in February 2017 on the Tetlin Lease with an approved budget of $5.3 million. The 2017 Phase I program was completed in April 2017. The Joint Venture Company initiated a 2017 Phase II exploration drilling and reconnaissance program in May 2017, which was completed in July 2017. The Joint Venture Company initiated Phase III of the 2017 drilling program, which consisted of exploration drilling in the West Peak, West Peak Extension, 7 O’clock, Forks, and North Peak areas in September 2017. Phase III was completed in October 2017. The calendar 2017 Phase I, Phase II, and Phase III programs and associated technical work incurred an aggregate cost through December 31, 2017 of approximately $12.2 million.
From inception to June 30, 2018, the Joint Venture Company has incurred $34.1 million in exploration program expenditures. As of June 30, 2018, Royal Gold had funded a total of $31.7 million (including the initial investment of $5.0 million) and earned a 40.0% interest in the Joint Venture Company.
The Joint Venture Management Committee has approved a budget for calendar year 2018 of $9.1 million, of which the Company’s share will be approximately $5.1 million. Of the approved budget amount, the Joint Venture Company had spent approximately $4.6 million as of June 30, 2018. The budget includes an extensive 74 line kilometers of ground geophysics program utilizing both Induced Polarization (IP) and Titan EM techniques. Surveys will be carried out on targets within an 8-kilometer radius of Main Peak to identify targets similar to Main and North Peak. Titan EM surveys will be carried out on three targets identified from airborne magnetics surveys as porphyry type signatures. The program will drill test a number of targets within an 8 kilometer radius of the Main Peak deposit and have budgeted 6,900 meters of drilling. In addition to the exploration work, engineering studies are being prepared along with metallurgical testing to support the preparation of a Preliminary Economic Assessment, covering the defined mineralized material in the Main and North Peak deposits.
The exploration effort on the Tetlin Lease has resulted in identifying two mineral deposits (Peak and North Peak) and several other gold and copper prospects following drilling programs starting in 2011. Surface, bedrock, and stream sediment data on the Tetlin Lease as well as on the Eagle and Tok state of Alaska claims adjacent to the Tetlin Lease have been gathered during the summer exploration programs. There was no exploration program in 2014. None of the exploration targets are known to host quantifiable commercial mineral reserves and none are near or adjacent to other known significant gold or copper deposits. There has been no recorded past placer or lode mining on Peak Gold joint venture project, and the Company and the Joint Venture Company are the only entities known to have conducted drilling operations on the Peak Gold Joint Venture Project.
The majority of the Peak Gold Joint Venture Property is hosted within the Yukon-Tanana Terrane (YTT), a regionally extensive package of metamorphic rocks. Rocks of the YTT on the Peak Gold Joint Venture Property consist primarily of more deformed, higher temperature metamorphic rocks on the northern third of the project and less deformed, lower temperature metamorphic rocks to the south. Country rocks on the Peak Gold Joint Venture Property are intruded by granitic rocks which have not been well mapped.
Large-scale structural features within the Peak Gold Joint Venture Property are closely tied to movements along the Tintina-Kaltag and Denali-Farewell fault systems, two continental-scale faults between which are a series of district and prospect-scale northeast, northwest and east-west structures. Limited exposures in the northern half of the property make identification of these structures difficult. Prospect to hand-sample scale folding has been noted throughout the project area.
Although alpine glaciation has affected elevations above 4,500 feet on the southern edge of the Peak Gold Joint Venture Property, most of the Peak Gold Joint Venture Property escaped Pleistocene continental glaciation. However, due to its proximity to continental glaciers to the north and east, the Peak Gold Joint Venture Property was covered by a variable thickness of wind-blown silt ranging up to 10 meters thick. This extremely fine-grained, metal-barren silt effectively masks the geochemical signature of underlying bedrock containing gold-copper-silver mineralization. Following deposition of this silt layer, the Peak Gold Joint Venture Property was subject to an extensive period of surface weathering, which now extends 200-300 feet below surface.
From a regional perspective, the Peak Gold Joint Venture Property is located in the Tintina Gold Belt in rocks that are highly prospective for gold deposits as well as porphyry copper-molybdenum-gold deposits. These two genetically different types of mineralization overlap in eastern Interior Alaska and the western Yukon Territory and are host to dozens of known prospects, deposits and active mines. In addition, rocks on the southern edge of the Peak Gold Joint Venture Property are prospective for nickel-copper-platinum group element deposits. Prior to its discovery in 2009, the style of mineralization discovered on the Chief Danny prospect on the Peak Gold Joint Venture Property was unknown in Interior Alaska. Diamond drilling results from 2011 through 2016 have revealed the presence of a distinctive suite of elements and minerals at the Main Peak, North Peak and Discovery Zones that do not match the typical characteristics of gold deposits of the Tintina Gold Belt but do share several diagnostic characteristics of gold-copper-silver skarn deposits, possibly as part of a larger porphyry copper-molybdenum-gold system. Skarn is a term that refers to a distinctive class of mineral deposits formed where limestone-bearing rocks are intruded by hot, fluid-bearing granitic rocks. The Main Peak and North Peak Zones mineralization most closely resembles the gold-sulfide skarns mined at the Fortitude deposit in the Battle Mountain Mining District of central Nevada.
Chief Danny Prospect
The Chief Danny Prospect Area currently is the most advanced exploration target on the Tetlin Lease and is comprised of several distinct mineralized areas: the Main Peak Zone, Discovery Zone, West Peak Zone, North Peak Zone, Connector Zone, Saddle Zone and the 7 O’clock area. The Chief Danny prospect was discovered during rock, stream sediment and pan concentrate sampling in 2009 and since then has been explored using top of bedrock soil auger sampling, trenching, ground induced polarization (IP) geophysics, airborne magnetic and resistivity surveys and core drilling. Results from this work indicate the presence of a zoned metal-bearing system consisting of a gold-copper-iron enriched core covering six square miles at Chief Danny South (includes Main Peak, Discovery, West Peak, and North Peak/Blue Moon) and a fault-offset arsenic-gold enriched zone to the north covering three square miles at the Saddle Zone. The Company has conducted extensive drilling on the Main Peak, North Peak, and Connector Zones. The Company has also conducted some environmental base line studies on the areas surrounding the Chief Danny prospect, as well as airborne magnetic and resistivity programs. From 2009 through June 30, 2018, the Company conducted field-related exploration work at the Chief Danny Prospect, including collecting the following samples:
The map below depicts the grade times thickness in the Main Peak, North Peak, and West Peak zones:
2018 Exploration Program - Phase I. During the quarter ending June 30, 2018, 30.6 line-kilometers of IP surveys, 10.6 line-kilometers of Titan DCIP/MT surveys and 1,762 meters of core drilling were completed. The Joint Venture Company spent an estimated $4.0 million, during the quarter, on program activities, including drilling, geochemical analyses, landholding fees and other related expenses. Exploration drilling consisted of 1,518 meters in ten holes in the 2 O’clock area and 244 meters in two holes in the 8 O’clock area. To date, the Joint Venture Company has also completed 1,370 meters of core drilling at Copper Hill, and is currently drilling the North Saddle Zone for porphyry prospects.
Metallurgical testing of 19 composite samples from the Main Peak orebody and 19 composite samples from the North Peak orebody have been the subject of ongoing metallurgical testing in support of the Preliminary Economic Evaluation being prepared by JDS Energy & Mining. Test results support the processing of Main and North Peak materials in a conventional gold processing plant using cyanide.
The map below depicts the location of the core holes drilled in the 8 O'clock, 2 O'clock, and North Saddle zones during the 2018 Phase I Program:
The map below depicts the location of the core holes drilled in the Copper Hill zone during the 2018 Phase I Program:
Significant Drill Intercepts from the 2018 Phase I Program.
Sample intervals are calculated using 0.5 grams per tonne (gpt) lower cut off for gold with no internal waste less than cutoff grade that is greater than 3 meters in thickness. Intercepts shown are drill intercept lengths. True width of mineralization is unknown. The grade cutoff for gold (Au) is 0.5 gpt; for silver (Ag) is 10 gpt; and for copper (Cu) is 0.1%. For the assays received to date, no significant intervals were encountered in the drilling. We are awaiting assays for the holes drilled at Copper Hill and the Saddle Zone.
2017 Exploration Program - Phase III. The Phase III exploration drilling completed by the Joint Venture Company on the Peak Gold Joint Venture Property totaled 2,966 meters (9,731 feet) in 16 holes. The Joint Venture Company spent an estimated $4.7 million, during the quarters ended September and December, 2017 combined, on program activities, including drilling, geochemical analyses, landholding fees and other related expenses. Phase III drilling consisted of exploration drilling West Peak and West Peak Extension (1,707 meters), 7 O’clock (203 meters), Forks (729 meters), and North Peak (327 meters). The 2017 Phase III program was completed October 18, 2017, and statistics represent the full Phase III program.
A total of 363 pan concentrate, 364 stream sediment and 5 grab rock samples were collected over the Noah and southern Eagle claims in July and early August 2017. Results from these efforts were received in the third quarter and revealed three large areas where anomalous gold, arsenic, and copper were concentrated. Gold, arsenic and copper in steams sediment samples range up to 377 ppb, 161 ppm and 412 ppm, respectively. Gold, arsenic and copper in pan cons range up to 9,929 ppb, 803 ppm and 206 ppm, respectively.
The map below depicts the location of the core holes drilled during the 2017 Phase III program:
Significant Drill Intercepts from the 2017 Phase III Program. Sample intervals are calculated using 0.5 grams per tonne (gpt) lower cut off for gold with no internal waste less than cutoff grade that is greater than 3 meters in thickness. Intercepts shown are drill intercept lengths. True width of mineralization is unknown. The grade cutoff for gold (Au) is 0.5 gpt; for silver (Ag) is 10 gpt; and for copper (Cu) is 0.1%. The following table summarizes the significant drilling results obtained for the complete Phase III of the 2017 Program:
2017 Exploration Program - Phase II. The Phase II exploration drilling completed by the Joint Venture Company on the Peak Gold Joint Venture Property totaled 9,761 meters (32,038 feet) in 44 holes. The Joint Venture Company spent an estimated $4.7 million, during the June quarter, on program activities, including drilling, geochemical analyses, landholding fees and other related expenses. Drilling, through the end of July, consisted of exploration drilling West Peak (461 meters), West Peak Extension (2,603 meters) Discovery (1,034 meters), 7 O’clock (1,443 meters), New Moon (1,398 meters), Waterpump (1,161 meters), Main Peak (570 meters) and North Peak (1,095 meters). Soils auger sampling and IP geophysical surveys were conducted in the Chief Danny area. Stream sediment and pan concentrate samples were collected across the Noah group of claims. The 2017 Phase II program was completed July 31, 2017, and statistics represent the full Phase II program.
The map below depicts the location of the core holes drilled during the 2017 Phase II program:
2017 PHASE II CORE HOLES DRILLED
Significant Drill Intercepts from the 2017 Phase II Program. Sample intervals are calculated using 0.5 grams per tonne (gpt) lower cut off for gold with no internal waste less than cutoff grade that is greater than 3 meters in thickness. Intercepts shown are drill intercept lengths. True width of mineralization is unknown. The grade cutoff for gold (Au) is 0.5 gpt; for silver (Ag) is 10 gpt; and for copper (Cu) is 0.1%. The following table summarizes the significant drilling results obtained for the complete Phase II of the 2017 Program:
2017 Exploration Program - Phase I. During the quarter ended March 31, 2017, exploration drilling was completed by the Joint Venture Company on the Peak Gold Joint Venture Property totaling 5,236 meters (17,179 feet) in 47 holes. The Joint Venture Company spent an estimated $2.8 million, during the quarter, on program activities, including drilling, geochemical analyses, landholding fees and other related expenses. Drilling consisted of infilling and expanding the mineralized zone in North Peak totaling 3,703 meters, target testing in West Peak totaling 282 meters and target testing of True Blue Moon totaling 1,251 meters.
The map below depicts the location of the core holes drilled during the 2017 Phase I program:
2017 PHASE I CORE HOLES DRILLED
Significant Drill Intercepts from the 2017 Phase I Program. Sample intervals are calculated using 0.5 grams per tonne (gpt) lower cut off for gold with no internal waste less than cutoff grade that is greater than 3 meters in thickness. Intercepts shown are drill intercept lengths. True width of mineralization is unknown. The grade cutoff for gold (Au) is 0.5 gpt; for silver (Ag) is 10 gpt; and for copper (Cu) is 0.1%. The following table summarizes the significant drilling results obtained for the complete Phase I of the 2017 Program:
2016 Exploration Program - Phase III. During the quarter ended December 31, 2016, exploration drilling was completed by the Joint Venture Company on the Peak Gold Joint Venture Property totaling 3,883 meters (12,739 feet) in 37 holes. The Joint Venture Company spent an estimated $2.6 million, during the quarter, on program activities, including drilling, geochemical analyses, landholding fees and other related expenses. Drilling was all completed in the North Peak area with the objective of infilling the mineralized area to support a resource estimation.
The map below depicts the location of the core holes drilled during the 2016 Phase III program:
2016 PHASE III CORE HOLES DRILLED
Significant Drill Intercepts from the 2016 Phase III Program. Sample intervals are calculated using 0.5 grams per tonne (gpt) lower cut off for gold with no internal waste less than cutoff grade that is greater than 3 meters in thickness. Intercepts shown are drill intercept lengths. True width of mineralization is unknown. The grade cutoff for gold (Au) is 0.5 gpt; for silver (Ag) is 10 gpt; and for copper (Cu) is 0.1%. The following table summarizes the significant drilling results obtained for the complete Phase III of the 2016 Program:
2016 Exploration Program - Phase II. During the quarter ended September 30, 2016, exploration drilling was completed by the Joint Venture Company on the Peak Gold Joint Venture Property totaling 6,498 meters (22,795 feet) in 30 holes, a continuation of the 2016 Phase II program, started in the prior quarter. The Phase II program, which was initiated in the quarter ended June 30, 2016, has completed 12,601 meters (41,342 ft) of exploration drilling in 63 holes. The Joint Venture Company spent an estimated $3.9 million, during the quarter, on program activities, including drilling, geochemical analyses, landholding fees and other related expenses. Drilling targeted three areas: North Peak, West Peak, and Connector Zones, to better define the areas with known mineralization. During the full program, high grade-gold mineralization was drilled in the area that joins North Peak to the Connector Zone mineralization identified in the 2016 Phase I program. Several holes drilled revealed significant grade-thickness intervals of gold such as drill hole 16235 which intercepted 38.88 meters grading 51.62 gpt gold starting at 14.50 meters, drill hole 16237 which intercepted 14.19 meters grading 45.33 gpt gold starting at 9.75 meters, drill hole 16271 which intercepted 17.12 meters grading 51.89 gpt gold starting at 24.08 meters, and drill hole 16256 which intercepted 13.20 meters grading 48.59 gpt gold starting at 7.92 meters.
The map below depicts the location of 63 core holes drilled during the 2016 Phase II program:
2016 PHASE II CORE HOLES DRILLED
Significant Drill Intercepts from the 2016 Phase II Program. Sample intervals are calculated using 0.5 grams per tonne (gpt) lower cut off for gold with no internal waste less than cutoff grade that is greater than 3 meters in thickness. Intercepts shown are drill intercept lengths. True width of mineralization is unknown. The grade cutoff for gold (Au) is 0.5 gpt; for silver (Ag) is 10 gpt; and for copper (Cu) is 0.1%. The following table summarizes the significant drilling results obtained for the complete Phase II of the 2016 Program:
2016 Exploration Program - Phase I. During the first three months of calendar year 2016, exploration drilling was completed by the Joint Venture Company on the Peak Gold Joint Venture Property totaling 4,040 meters (13,255 feet) in 19 holes, referred to as the 2016 Phase I program. The Joint Venture Company spent an estimated $1.9 million to complete the program including drilling, geochemical analyses, landholding fees and other related expenses. Drilling targeted two areas, North Peak and West Peak, with the objective of enhancing the understanding of mineralization geometry and geochemical variability. During the program, an area located between the Peak Zone and North Peak was tested, producing significant gold and copper assay intervals in a Connector Zone.
The map below depicts the location of 16 of the 19 core holes drilled during the 2016 Phase I program:
2016 PHASE I CORE HOLES DRILLED
Significant Drill Intercepts from the 2016 Phase I Program. Sample intervals are calculated using 0.5 grams per tonne (gpt) lower cut off for gold with no internal waste less than cutoff grade that is greater than 3 meters in thickness. Intercepts shown are drill intercept lengths. True width of mineralization is unknown. The grade cutoff for gold (Au) is 0.5 gpt; for silver (Ag) is 10 gpt; and for copper (Cu) is 0.1%. The following table summarizes the significant drilling results obtained to date for Phase I of the 2016 Program:
Geochemical Analysis and Security
All samples submitted for the 2016 and Phase I 2017 programs were prepared for assay by ALS Minerals at their facilities in Fairbanks, Alaska and analyzed at their Vancouver, British Columbia and Reno, Nevada facilities. Analytical work consisted of gold by fire assay with atomic absorption finish plus multi-element inductively coupled plasma atomic emission spectrography (ICP-AES) analyses using 4-acid digestion. All samples collected in 2016 and Phase I 2017 were cataloged in the field and shipped via ground transport directly to ALS Minerals’ preparation facility in Fairbanks by an Avalon contractor. The Company believes the parties working on sampling of the Peak Gold Joint Venture Property followed industry accepted procedures for sample preparation, analysis and security.
All samples from the Phase II and III 2017 program and the Phase I 2018 program were prepared for assay by Bureau Veritas Minerals at their facilities in Fairbanks, Alaska and analyzed at their Vancouver, British Columbia and Reno, Nevada facilities. Analytical work consisted of gold by fire assay with atomic absorption finish plus multi-element inductively coupled plasma atomic emission spectrography (ICP-AES) analyses using 4-acid digestion. All samples collected in the Phase II and III 2017 and Phase I 2018 were cataloged in the field and shipped via ground transport directly to Bureau Veritas Minerals’ preparation facility in Fairbanks by an Avalon contractor. The Company believes the parties working on sampling of the Peak Gold Joint Venture Property followed industry accepted procedures for sample preparation, analysis and security.
Sampling, Analysis and Security
During the 2016 programs, Avalon personnel inserted 1,986 blanks, standards and replicates into the flow of soil, rock, and drill core samples prior to shipment to the analytical labs. For the 2017 programs, through June 30, 2017 , Avalon inserted 1,103 blanks, standards and replicates into the flow of soil, rock, and drill core samples prior to shipment to the analytical labs. Blanks consisted of Browns Hill Quarry basalt. Twenty five different commercial standards provided by Analytical Solutions were used during 2016. Values in these standards ranged from 0.012 ppm to 7.15 ppm gold. Four different commercial standards provided by Rock Labs were used during 2016. Values in these standards ranged from 0.077 ppm to 1.802 ppm gold. The quality assurance/quality control procedure was completed on-site at the Avalon warehouse in Tok, Alaska.
During 2017 programs, Avalon inserted 1,973 blanks, standards, duplicates and replicates into the flow of soil, rock, pan concentrate, stream sediment and drill core samples prior to shipment to the analytical labs. Blanks consisted of Browns Hill Quarry basalt. Twenty two different commercial standards provided by Analytical Solutions were used during 2017. Values in these standards ranged from 0.012 ppm to 14.18 ppm gold. Three different commercial standards provided by Rock Labs were used during 2017. Values in these standards ranged from 0.077 ppm to 1.802 ppm gold. The quality assurance/quality control procedure was completed on-site at the Avalon warehouse in Tok, Alaska.
During the first half of 2018, Avalon inserted 116 blanks, standards, duplicates and replicates into the flow of rock and drill core samples prior to shipment to the analytical labs. Blanks consisted of Browns Hill Quarry basalt. Ten different commercial standards provided by Analytical Solutions were used during the first half of 2018. Values in these standards ranged from 0.309 ppm to 5.49 ppm gold. The quality assurance/quality control procedure was completed on-site at the Avalon warehouse in Tok, Alaska.
Rare Earth Elements
While the Company previously acquired state of Alaska and federal unpatented mining claims for the exploration of rare earth elements, it has abandoned its rare earth element claims to devote more time and resources to gold exploration.
Acquisition of Other Properties
The Joint Venture Company anticipates from time to time acquiring additional properties in Alaska for exploration, subject to the availability of funds. The acquisitions may include leases or similar rights from Alaska Native corporations or may include filing Federal or State of Alaska mining claims by staking claims for exploration. Acquiring additional properties will likely result in additional expense to the Company for minimum royalties, minimum rents and annual exploratory work requirements.
Item 3.