Item 2. PROPERTIES
The Tetlin Property is located in the State of Alaska, and consists of the Tetlin Lease and unpatented mining claims. The Tetlin Property is the only material property of the Joint Venture Company. None of the known prospects on the Tetlin Property are known to host quantifiable mineral reserves as defined by SEC Industry Guide 7.
In connection with the closing of the Transactions with Royal Gold in January 2015 (the "Closing'), the Company formed the Joint Venture Company and contributed to the Joint Venture Company the Tetlin Lease and other related assets. At the Closing, the Company and Royal Gold, through their wholly-owned subsidiaries, entered into the Joint Venture Company LLC Agreement. The Joint Venture Company now holds title to the Tetlin Lease and unpatented mining claims.
The Joint Venture Company believes that it holds good title to its properties in accordance with standards generally accepted in the minerals industry. As is customary in the mining industry, the Company conducted only a preliminary title examination at the time the Company acquired the Tetlin Lease. The Joint Venture Company also conducted a title examination prior to the
assignment of the Tetlin Lease to the Joint Venture Company and performed certain curative title work. Before the Joint Venture Company begins any mining activities, however, it is expected to conduct a full title examination and perform curative work on any defects that it deems significant.
Lease with Tetlin Village Council
JEX entered into the Tetlin Lease with the Tetlin Village Council, effective as of July 15, 2008. An undivided 50% leasehold interest was sold to Contango Mining pursuant to the Joint Exploration Agreement dated as of September 29, 2009 in exchange for $1 million and a 1% overriding royalty interest. JEX transferred its remaining 50% leasehold interest to Contango Mining as of September 15, 2010 in exchange for an increased overriding royalty aggregating 3% pursuant to an Amended ORRI Agreement. On September 29, 2014, pursuant to a Royalty Purchase Agreement between JEX and Royal Gold (the “Royalty Purchase Agreement”), JEX sold its entire overriding royalty interest in the Tetlin Lease and unpatented mining claims to Royal Gold .
The Tetlin Lease covers approximately 675,000 acres of land for an initial term of ten years and so long, after such initial term, as the Joint Venture Company continues conducting exploration or mining operations on the Tetlin Lease. The Joint Venture Company is required to spend $350,000 per year annually until July 15, 2018 in exploration costs pursuant to the Tetlin Lease. However, exploration expenditures to date have already satisfied this work commitment requirement for the full lease term through 2018 because exploration funds spent in any year in excess of $350,000 are credited toward future years’ exploration cost requirements. The Tetlin Lease also provides that the Joint Venture Company will pay the Tetlin Village Council a production royalty ranging from 2.0% to 5.0% depending on the type of metal produced and the year of production. As of June 30, 2015, we have paid the Tetlin Village Council $225,000 in exchange for reducing the production royalty payable to them by 0.75%. These payments lowered the production royalty to a range of 1.25% to 4.25% depending on the type of metal produced and the year of production. On or before July 15, 2020, the Tetlin Village Council has the option to increase its production royalty by (i) 0.25% by payment to the Joint Venture Company of $150,000, (ii) 0.50% by payment to the Joint Venture Company of $300,000, or (iii) 0.75% by payment to the Joint Venture Company of $450,000.
Until such time as production royalties begin, the Joint Venture Company will pay the Tetlin Village Council an advance minimum royalty of approximately $75,000 per year, plus an inflation adjustment. As of June 30, 2015, the Joint Venture Company had prepaid $40,000 of the $75,000 advance minimum royalty that is due to the Tetlin Village Council on July 15, 2015. Additionally, the Joint Venture Company will pay Royal Gold a production royalty of 3.0% should it deliver to a purchaser on a commercial basis gold or associated minerals derived from the Tetlin Lease.
Gold Mining Claims
A listing of the Joint Venture Company's State of Alaska unpatented mining claims as of June 30, 2015 for gold and associated minerals are listed in Exhibit 99.1, 99.3, 99.4, 99.5, and 99.6. These mining claims are not known to host quantifiable mineral reserves as defined by SEC Industry Guide 7.
Location of and Access to our Properties
The Tetlin Property is located in the Tetlin Hills and Mentasta Mountains of eastern interior Alaska, 300 kilometers southeast of the city of Fairbanks and 20 kilometers southeast of Tok, Alaska. The Tetlin Lease covers an area measuring approximately 80 kilometers north-south by 60 kilometers east-west in eastern Interior Alaska.
The Tetlin Property is accessible via helicopter and via road. The 23-mile long Tetlin Village Road is an all-weather gravel road connecting the village with the town of Tok on the Alaska Highway. The majority of our Tetlin Property is accessible only via helicopter, although many winter trails exist in the Tetlin Hills and Mentasta Mountains in the northern and southwestern parts of the Properties, respectively. Winter trails link Tetlin Village to the village of Old Tetlin and continue south to the Tetlin River airstrip, a 1,500 foot long unmaintained gravel strip located in the Tetlin River Valley. Winter trails also provide access to the Tuck Creek valley from the village of Mentasta on the Tok Cutoff Highway.
Two seasonal dirt roads have been permitted and constructed to allow surface access to the Chief Danny gold-copper-silver prospect in the northern Tetlin Hills. Both of these roads begin along the Tetlin Village Road and extend to the Chief Danny project and access to both roads is controlled by gates at their junction with the Tetlin Village Road.
The paved Alaska Highway passes near the northern edge of the Tetlin Property as does the southern terminus of the Taylor Highway where it joins the Alaska Highway at Tetlin Junction. The 23-mile long Tetlin Village road provides year-round access to the northern Tetlin Hills, linking Tetlin Village to the Alaska Highway. Buried electrical and fiber-optic communications cables follow this road corridor and link Tetlin Village to the Tok power and communications grid. The Tok public electric facility is capable of generating up to 2 megawatts of power, and the nearest high capacity public electric facilities to the Tetlin Property are in Delta Junction, 107 road miles northwest of the Tetlin project and Glennallen, 138 road miles southwest of the Tetlin Property.
The Company does not have any plant or equipment at its Tetlin Property, and relies on contractors to perform work. The Company does not believe the Tetlin Property has been previously explored for minerals.
Gold Exploration
The Company, through its participation in the Joint Venture Company, controls a total of 774,356 acres consisting of the Tetlin Lease and State of Alaska mining claims for the exploration of gold and associated minerals. To date, our gold exploration has concentrated on the Tetlin Lease, with only a limited amount of work performed on our TOK, Eagle, Bush, AD and Triple Z claims.
The Joint Venture Company initiated a summer of 2015 exploration program on the Tetlin Lease. The work program anticipated spending $5 million with a possible expansion of the work program in early fall if drilling results warranted further work. The drilling program included exploration targets that were helicopter-supported at the Tors, Saddle, North Saddle and Saddle Skarn targets and road-supported work at the Peak Zone area. Most of the initial work program was completed by early August with on-site sample preparation and assay results anticipated by the end of August or early September. On August 31, 2015, the Joint Venture Company approved a budget of up to approximately $4 million for additional exploration work to be completed before the drilling season ends in October.
The exploration effort on the Tetlin Lease has resulted in identifying one mineral deposit (Peak) and several other gold and copper prospects following drilling programs in 2011, 2012, 2013 and 2015. Surface, bedrock, and stream sediment data on the Tetlin Lease as well as on the Eagle and Tok state of Alaska claims adjacent to the Tetlin Lease have been gathered during the summer exploration programs. There was no exploration program 2014. None of the exploration targets are known to host quantifiable commercial mineral reserves and none are near or adjacent to other known significant gold or copper deposits. There has been no recorded past placer or lode mining on Tetlin project, and the Company and the Joint Venture Company are the only entities known to have conducted drilling operations on the Tetlin project.
The majority of the Tetlin Property is hosted within the Yukon-Tanana Terrane (YTT), a regionally extensive package of metamorphic rocks. Rocks of the YTT on the Tetlin Property consist primarily of more deformed, higher temperature metamorphic rocks on the northern third of the project and less deformed, lower temperature metamorphic rocks to the south. Country rocks on the Tetlin Property are intruded by granitic rocks which have not been well mapped.
Large-scale structural features within the Tetlin Property are closely tied to movements along the Tintina-Kaltag and Denali-Farewell fault systems, two continental-scale faults between which are a series of district and prospect-scale northeast, northwest and east-west structures. Limited exposures in the northern half of the property make identification of these structures difficult. Prospect to hand-sample scale folding has been noted throughout the project area.
Although alpine glaciation has affected elevations above 4,500 feet on the southern edge of the Tetlin Property, most of the Tetlin Property escaped Pleistocene continental glaciation. However, due to its proximity to continental glaciers to the north and east, the Tetlin Property was covered by a variable thickness of wind-blown silt ranging up to 10 meters thick. This extremely fine-grained, metal-barren silt effectively masks the geochemical signature of underlying bedrock containing gold-copper-silver mineralization. Following deposition of this silt layer, the Tetlin Property was subject to an extensive period of surface weathering, which now extends 200-300 feet below surface.
From a regional perspective, the Tetlin Property is located in the Tintina Gold Belt in rocks that are highly prospective for gold deposits as well as porphyry copper-molybdenum-gold deposits. These two genetically different types of mineralization overlap in eastern Interior Alaska and the western Yukon Territory and are host to dozens of known prospects, deposits and active mines. In addition, rocks on the southern edge of the Tetlin Property are prospective for nickel-copper-platinum group element deposits. Prior to its discovery in 2009, the style of mineralization discovered on the Chief Danny prospect on the Tetlin Property was unknown in Interior Alaska. Diamond drilling results from 2011 through 2015 have revealed the presence of a distinctive suite of elements and minerals at the Peak and Discovery Zones that do not match the typical characteristics of gold deposits of the Tintina Gold Belt but do share several diagnostic characteristics of gold-copper-silver skarn deposits, possibly as part of a larger porphyry copper-molybdenum-gold system. Skarn is a term that refers to a distinctive class of mineral deposits formed where limestone-bearing rocks are intruded by hot, fluid-bearing granitic rocks. The Peak Zone mineralization most closely resembles the gold-sulfide skarns mined at the Fortitude deposit in the Battle Mountain Mining District of central Nevada.
Chief Danny Prospect
The Chief Danny Prospect currently is the most advanced exploration target on the Tetlin Lease and is comprised of several distinct mineralized areas: the Peak deposit, Discovery Zone, Roadcut Zone and the Saddle Zone. The Chief Danny prospect was discovered during rock, stream sediment and pan concentrate sampling in 2009 and since then has been explored using top of bedrock soil auger sampling, trenching, ground induced polarization (IP) geophysics, airborne magnetic and resistivity surveys and core drilling. Results from this work indicate the presence of a zoned metal-bearing system consisting of a gold-
copper-iron enriched core covering six square miles at Chief Danny South (includes Peak, Discovery, Roadcut Zones, North Peak and Blue Moon) and a fault-offset arsenic-gold enriched zone to the north covering three square miles at the Saddle Zone. The Company has conducted extensive drilling on the Peak Zone. The Company has also conducted environmental base line studies on the areas surrounding the Chief Danny prospect, as well as airborne magnetic and resistivity programs. From 2009 through 2015, the Company conducted field-related exploration work at the Chief Danny Prospect, including collecting the following samples:
2015 Exploration Program. The Joint Venture Company completed 7,162 meters (23,498 ft) of core drilling in 29 core holes during the 2015 Phase 1 drilling program on the Tetlin Property, which was completed August 9, 2015. Drilling targeted seven areas identified through prior geophysical surveys and geochemical sampling outside the Peak Zone in the greater Chief Danny prospect. The Joint Venture Company spent approximately $4.5 million for the 2015 Phase 1 work including drilling, geochemical analyses, landholding fees and other related expenses.
The map below depicts the location of the 29 core holes drilled during the 2015 Phase I drilling program:
2015 PHASE I CORE HOLES DRILLED
Significant 2015 Drill Intercepts from the 2015 Phase 1 Program. Sample intervals are calculated using 0.5 grams per ton (gpt) lower cut off for gold with no internal waste less than cutoff grade that is greater than 3 meters in thickness. Intercepts shown are drill intercept lengths. True width of mineralization is unknown. The grade cutoff for gold (Au) is 0.5 gpt; for silver (Ag) is 10 gpt; and for copper (Cu) is 0.1%. The following table summarizes the significant drilling results obtained to date for Phase I of the 2015 Program:
2014 Exploration Program. No field exploration programs were conducted on the Tetlin project during 2014. Work conducted in previous years was sufficient to satisfy work commitment requirements of the Tetlin Lease and annual work commitment requirements of State of Alaska mining claims that are part of the Tetlin project.
2013 Exploration Program. The Company completed 14,349 meters (47,079 ft) of core drilling in 69 core holes during the 2013 Tetlin project exploration program. Drilling included infill and step-out drilling in the Peak Zone (60 holes, 11,592 meters), and completion of 9 additional core holes on 5 other leads in the greater Chief Danny prospect (2,757 meters). The Company also completed approximately 2,500 line-kilometers of airborne magnetic and electromagnetic geophysics, completed or commenced all of the baseline water quality sampling, cultural resource assessments, wetlands mapping, preliminary metallurgical testing and acid rock drainage testing. The Company spent approximately $9.0 million for this work including drilling, geochemical analyses, airborne geophysics, landholding fees and other related expenses.
Significant 2013 Drill Intercepts from the Peak Zone. Sample intervals are calculated using a 0.5 grams per ton (gpt) lower cut off for gold with no internal waste that is less than cutoff grade and greater than 3 meters in thickness. Intercepts shown are drill intercept lengths. True width of mineralization is unknown. The grade cutoff for gold (Au) is 0.5 gpt; for silver (Ag) is 10 gpt; and for copper (Cu) is 0.1%. The following table summarizes the significant drilling results released to date for 2013:
Our 2013 exploration program was designed and supervised by Avalon, the primary geological consultant for the Company. A more complete description of Avalon is set forth in Item 1 - Consulting Services provided by Avalon Development Corporation. The President of Avalon is Curtis J. Freeman who graduated from the College of Wooster, Ohio, with a B.A. degree in Geology (1978) and graduated from the University of Alaska with an M.S. degree in Economic Geology (1980). Mr. Freeman is a member of the American Institute of Professional Geologists, the Society of Economic Geologists, the Geological Society of Nevada, the Alaska Miners Association, the Association for Mineral Exploration of British Columbia and the Prospectors and Developers Association of Canada. From 1980 to the present Mr. Freeman has been actively employed in various capacities in the mining industry in numerous locations in North America, Central America, South America, New Zealand and Africa.
Geochemical Analysis and Security
All original samples submitted in 2013 for geochemical analysis were prepared by two different labs, Acme Analytical Lab and ALS Minerals, at their respective facilities in Fairbanks and analyzed at their respective facilities in Vancouver, British Columbia. Analytical work consisted of gold by fire assay with atomic absorption finish plus multi-element inductively coupled plasma atomic emission spectrography (ICP-AES) analyses using 4-acid digestion. All samples collected in 2013 were cataloged in the field and shipped via ground transport directly to Acme’s or ALS Minerals’ preparation facility in Fairbanks by an Avalon contractor. Sample reject material from 2012 was submitted as check assays to be prepared by ALS Minerals’ facility in Fairbanks and analyzed at their Vancouver, British Columbia facility. At the conclusion of the 2013 field season, ALS Minerals analyzed 57% of the samples and Acme analyzed 43% of the samples.
All samples submitted for the 2015 Phase 1 program were prepared for assay by ALS Minerals at their facilities in Fairbanks, Alaska and analyzed at their Vancouver, British Columbia facility. Analytical work consisted of gold by fire assay with atomic absorption finish plus multi-element inductively coupled plasma atomic emission spectrography (ICP-AES) analyses using 4-acid digestion. All samples collected in 2015 were cataloged in the field and shipped via ground transport directly to ALS Minerals’ preparation facility in Fairbanks by an Avalon contractor. Sample reject material from 2012 was submitted as check assays to be prepared by ALS Minerals’ facility in Fairbanks and analyzed at their Vancouver, British Columbia facility.
The Company believes the parties working on sampling of the Tetlin Property followed industry accepted procedures for sample preparation, analysis and security.
Sampling, Analysis and Security
During 2013, Avalon personnel inserted 1001 standards and 304 blanks into the flow of soil, rock, and drill core samples prior to shipment to the analytical labs. Blanks consisted of Browns Hill Quarry basalt. Fifteen different commercial standards provided by Analytical Solutions were used during 2013. Values in these standards ranged from 0.514 gpt to 9.25 gpt gold. Six different commercial standards provided by Rock Labs were used during 2013. Values in these standards ranged from 0.084 gpt to 3.562 gpt gold. The quality assurance/quality control procedure was completed on-site at the Avalon warehouse in Tok, Alaska.
To further check the high grade gold and copper values observed in drill holes from the Peak Zone during the 2012 drilling, the rejects from 6 drill holes (666 samples) were resubmitted to ALS Minerals for gold and ICP analyses using identical preparations methods as used for the original Acme samples. Holes that were rich in gold and copper and holes that were rich in silver and copper were selected. The results of these assays continue to show good accuracy and repeatability for all of the elements of interest.
No new geochemical sampling work was conducted on the Tetlin project during 2014. During the Phase 1 2015 program, Avalon personnel inserted 394 standards and 115 blanks into the flow of soil, rock, and drill core samples prior to shipment to the analytical labs. Blanks consisted of Browns Hill Quarry basalt. Fifteen different commercial standards provided by Analytical Solutions were used during 2015. Values in these standards ranged from 0.514 ppm to 9.25 ppm gold. Six different commercial standards provided by Rock Labs were used during 2015. Values in these standards ranged from 0.414 ppm to 1.802 ppm gold. The quality assurance/quality control procedure was completed on-site at the Avalon warehouse in Tok, Alaska.
Rare Earth Elements
While the Company previously acquired state of Alaska and federal unpatented mining claims for the exploration of rare earth elements, the Company abandoned its rare earth element claims to devote more time and resources to its gold exploration.
Acquisition of Other Properties
The Joint Venture Company anticipates from time to time acquiring additional properties in Alaska for exploration, subject to the availability of funds. The acquisitions may include leases or similar rights from Alaska Native corporations or may include filing Federal or State of Alaska mining claims by staking claims for exploration. Acquiring additional properties will likely result in additional expense to the Company for minimum royalties, minimum rents and annual exploratory work requirements.
Item 3.