ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
North Bullfrog Project, Nevada
Our principal mineral property is the NBP (Figure 1), a gold exploration project located in northwestern Nye County, Nevada, in the Northern Bullfrog Hills about 15 km north of the town of Beatty. The NBP does not have any known proven or probable reserves under SEC Industry Guide 7 and the project is exploratory in nature. A NI 43-101 technical report entitled “Technical Report and Preliminary Economic Assessment for Combined Mill and Heap Leach Processing at the North Bullfrog Project Bullfrog Mining District, Nye County, Nevada” with an effective date of June 16, 2015, as amended and restated on May 18, 2016 (the “Technical Report”) is available on SEDAR. The Technical Report is referred to herein for informational purposes only and is not incorporated herein by reference. The Technical Report contains disclosure regarding mineral resources that are not Guide 7 compliant proven or probable reserves, see “Cautionary Note to U.S. Investors Regarding Estimates of Measured, Indicated and Inferred Resources and Proven and Probable Reserves” above.
Property Description and Location
North Bullfrog Project
The NBP is located in the Bullfrog Hills of northwestern Nye County, Nevada (Figure 2). The NBP covers about 7,223 hectares of patented and unpatented mining claims in Sections 20, 21, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 32, 33, 34, 35, and 36 of T10S, R46E; sections 1, 2, 11, 12, 13, and 14 of T11S, R46E; section 31 of T10S, R47E; and sections 6, 9, 15, 16, and 17 T11S, R47E, MDBM. We have a total of nine option/lease agreements in place that give us control of an aggregate of 51 patented lode mining claims (Figure 2). Corvus Nevada owns an additional 5 patented claims (the Millman claims) and a 430 acre property with 1600 acre-feet of water rights located north of NBP in the Sarcobatus hydrographic basin.
Figure 1: Property Map showing the Location of the North Bullfrog Project and Mother Lode Property, blue outline shows the North Bullfrog Project and the green outline shows the Mother Lode Property
Figure 2: Property Map of the North Bullfrog Project, Blue outline shows the NBP Federal claims boundary
and red outlines are the Leased Private Land
Title and Ownership
Redstar Gold Joint Venture and ITH Land Purchase
Redstar Gold Corp. (“Redstar”) originally staked 213 unpatented lode mining claims and optioned 21 patented lode mining claims from six private parties in 2006. ITH optioned the original NBP land package from Redstar in 2006, creating the NBPJV. ITH added 11 patented lode mining claims (the Mayflower property) to the NBPJV in 2007 under the Greenspun lease agreement. Redstar added 12 patented lode mining claims (the Connection and adjacent properties) to the NBPJV in 2008 under the lease agreement with Lunar Landing LLC. In August 2009 ITH purchased 100% interest in the NBPJV from Redstar by paying Redstar CAD$250,000 and issuing 200,000 ITH common shares. These holdings were then transferred to Corvus during the spin out. Corvus completed an additional option lease agreement on two patented lode mining claims in the Jolly Jane area in March 2011. In May 2014, Corvus amended its existing lease agreement with Kolo Corp. to add the Yellow Rose and Yellow Rose No. 1 claims. In March 2015 Corvus added a second option lease agreement with Lunar Landing LLC, to lease the Sunflower, Sunflower No. 1 and Sunflower No. 2 claims for a total of nine option agreements on private land. Table 1 summarizes the obligations of the nine leases which are part of Corvus’ responsibilities on the Project.
Table 1: Summary of Lease Obligations that are part of the North Bullfrog Project
(1)Original title transferred from Hall to Wylie due to death in the family
(2)Plus 50,000 shares of ITH and 25,000 Common Shares
Corvus has added an additional 808 federal unpatented lode mining claims which were staked in 2012, and added an additional 57 federal unpatented lode mining claims which were staked in late 2014.
The Gregory, Hall, Kolo Corp., Milliken and Pritchard leases contain provisions for extension of the lease beyond the initial term, as long as active exploration or mining activities are maintained by the Company. The leases are now extended annually under this provision.
Gregory Property (North Pioneer Area) Notification of Extension Term
Pursuant to a mining lease made and entered into as of June 16, 2006 between Redstar and an arm’s length individual, Redstar has leased one patented mineral claims which form part of the North Bullfrog project holdings. The lease is for an initial term of 10 years, and for so long thereafter as mining activities continue on the claims or contiguous claims held by the lessee. The lessee is required to pay advance minimum royalty payments (recoupable from production royalties) of USD 2,000 on execution, USD 2,000 on each of June 16, 2007, 2008 and 2009, USD 3,000 on June 16, 2010 and each anniversary thereafter, adjusted for inflation. The lessor is entitled to receive a 2% NSR royalty on all production, which may be purchased by the lessee for USD 1,000,000 per 1% (USD 2,000,000 for the entire royalty).
Hall Property (Savage Valley Area)
Pursuant to a mining lease made and entered into as of May 22, 2006 between Redstar and two arm’s length individuals, Redstar has leased 3 patented mineral claims. The lease is for an initial term of 10 years, and for so long thereafter as mining activities continue on the claims or contiguous claims held by the lessee. The lessee is required to pay advance minimum royalty payments (recoupable from production royalties) of USD 8,000 on execution, USD 4,800 on each of May 22, 2007, 2008 and 2009, USD 7,200 on May 22, 2010 and each anniversary thereafter, adjusted for inflation. The lessor is entitled to receive a 2% NSR royalty on all production, which may be purchased by the lessee for USD 1,000,000 per 1% (USD 2,000,000 for the entire royalty).
Kolo Property (Jolly Jane Area)
Pursuant to a mining lease made and entered into as of May 8, 2006 between Redstar and an arm’s length private Nevada corporation, Redstar has leased 2 patented mining claims (Jolly Jane and ZuZu). The lease is for an initial term of 10 years, and for so long thereafter as mining activities continue on the claims or contiguous claims held by the lessee. The lessee is required to pay advance minimum royalty payments (recoupable from production royalties) of USD 2,000 on execution, USD 2,000 on each of May 8, 2007, 2008 and 2009, USD 3,000 on May 8, 2010 and each anniversary thereafter, adjusted for inflation. The lessor is entitled to receive a 3% NSR royalty on all production from the Jolly Jane and ZuZu claims, which may be purchased by the lessee for USD 850,000 per 1% (USD 2,550,000 for the entire royalty).
The Kolo lease agreement was amended on May 29, 2014 to add the Yellow Rose and Yellow Rose No. 1 patented claims to the agreement. The term remained the same, but the amended lease includes additional Advance Minimum Royalty payments of USD 2,400 per year for years 1 and 2, increasing to USD 3,600 per year thereafter (adjusted for inflation) for the Yellow Rose claims. The Lessor is entitled to receive a 3% NSR royalty on all production from the Yellow Rose claims, which may be purchased by the lessee for USD 770,000 per 1% (USD 2,310,000 for the entire royalty).
Milliken Property (Pioneer Area)
Pursuant to a mining lease made and entered into as of May 8, 2006 between Redstar and two arm’s length individuals, Redstar has leased 3 patented mining claims. The lease is for an initial term of 10 years, and for so long thereafter as mining activities continue on the claims or contiguous claims held by the lessee. The lessee is required to pay advance minimum royalty payments (recoupable from production royalties) of USD 4,000 on execution, USD 3,500 on each of May 8, 2007, 2008 and 2009, USD 4,500 on May 8, 2010 and each anniversary thereafter, adjusted for inflation. The lessor is entitled to receive a 2% NSR royalty on all production, which may be purchased by the lessee for USD 1,000,000 per 1% (USD 2,000,000 for the entire royalty).
Prichard Property (Pioneer Area)
Pursuant to a mining lease made and entered into as of May 16, 2006 between Redstar and an arm’s length individual, Redstar has leased 12 patented mineral claims. The lease is for an initial term of 10 years, and for so long thereafter as mining activities continue on the claims or contiguous claims held by the lessee. The lessee is required to pay advance minimum royalty payments (recoupable from production royalties) of USD 20,500 on execution and USD 20,000 on each anniversary thereafter. The lessor is entitled to receive a 4% NSR royalty on all production, which may be purchased by the lessee for USD 1,000,000 per 1% (USD 4,000,000 for the entire royalty).
Lunar Property (Connection Area)
Pursuant to a mining lease and option to purchase agreement made effective October 27, 2008 between Redstar and an arm’s length limited liability company, Redstar has leased (and has the option to purchase) 12 patented mining claims. The ten-year, renewable mining lease requires advance minimum royalty payments (recoupable from production royalties, but not applicable to the purchase price if the option to purchase is exercised) of USD 10,800 on signing and annual payments for the first three anniversaries of USD 10,800 and USD 16,200 for every year thereafter. Redstar has an option to purchase the property (subject to the NSR royalty below) for USD 1,000,000 at any time during the life of the lease. Production is subject to a 4% NSR royalty, which may be purchased by the lessee for USD 1,250,000 per 1% (USD 5,000,000 for the entire royalty).
Lunar Property (Sunflower Area)
Pursuant to a mining lease and option to purchase agreement made effective March 30, 2015 between Corvus Nevada and an arm’s length limited liability company, Corvus Nevada has leased (and has the option to purchase) 3 patented mining claims. The 3 ½ year, renewable mining lease requires advance minimum royalty payments (recoupable from production royalties, but not applicable to the purchase price if the option to purchase is exercised) of USD 5,000 on signing and annual payments for the three anniversaries of USD 5,000. Corvus Nevada has an option to purchase the property (subject to the NSR royalty below) for USD 300,000 at any time during the life of the lease. Production is subject to a 4% NSR royalty, which may be purchased by the lessee for USD 500,000 per 1% (USD 2,000,000 for the entire royalty).
Sussman Property (Jolly Jane Area)
Pursuant to a mining lease and option to purchase made effective March 1, 2011 between Corvus Nevada and an arm’s length individual, Corvus Nevada has leased, and has the option to purchase, 2 patented mineral claims. The lease is for an initial term of 10 years, subject to extension for an additional 10 years (provided advance minimum royalties are timely paid), and for so long thereafter as mining activities continue on the claims. The lessee is required to pay advance minimum royalty payments (recoupable from production royalties, but not applicable to the purchase price if the option to purchase is exercised) of USD 20,000 on execution, USD 25,000 on each of March 1, 2012, 2013 and 2014, USD 30,000 on March 1, 2015 and each anniversary thereafter, adjusted for inflation. The lessor is entitled to receive a 2% NSR royalty on all production. The lessee may purchase the royalty for USD 1,000,000 per 1%. If the lessee purchases the entire royalty (USD 2,000,000) the lessee will also acquire all interest of the lessor in the subject property
Greenspun Property (Mayflower Area)
ITH, through what is now Corvus Nevada, entered into a mining lease with option to purchase with the Greenspun Group for 183 acres of patented lode mining claims that cover much of the Mayflower prospect. The Mayflower lease requires Corvus to make payments and complete work programs as outlined in Table 2. During the term of the lease any production from the Mayflower property is subject to a sliding scale royalty, also outlined in Table 2. Corvus has the right to purchase a 100% interest in the Mayflower property for $7.5 million plus a 0.5% NSR (if gold is less than $500) or 1.0% (if gold is above $500) at any time during the term of the lease (subject to escalation for inflation if the option is exercised after the 10th year of the lease). The annual property taxes to be paid by Corvus for the Mayflower property are $214. On February 11, 2015, the Mayflower mining lease with option to purchase was amended with the addition of an anti-dilution clause applying to the ITH shares and with an increase in the annual payment to include 25,000 Common Shares.
Table 2: Summary of the Material Terms of the Mayflower/Greenspun Group Lease
Millman Property
On February 21, 2013 Corvus Nevada signed a purchase agreement, which was subsequently closed on March 28, 2013, for the purchase of the surface rights only to five patented lode mining claims owned by Mr. and Mrs. Gordon Millman and located east of the Mayflower Property. This ground could be used for potential overburden storage from the Mayflower deposit as well as improving access to the Mayflower Property in general. Corvus Nevada purchased the surface rights for US $160,000. Additionally, Corvus Nevada agreed to pay the Millmans a fee of US $0.02 per ton of any potential overburden storage subject to a minimum storage of 12 million short tons of material. The note for the storage fee of $240,000 was paid on December 17, 2015.
Sarcobatus Property
In December 2013, SoN Land and Water LLC, wholly owned by Corvus Nevada, completed the purchase of an 160 hectare fee simple parcel of land approximately 30 km north of the NBP which carries with it 1,600 acre feet of irrigation water rights within the Sarcobatus Flats water basin. The cost of the land and associated water rights was US $1,034,626. The Company has registered the purchase of water rights with the Nevada State Engineer (“NSE”) and will make application to the NSE to temporarily move the production point to the NBP, and change the application to mining. The water right requires annual renewal and has currently been extended through June 11, 2017.
Other property considerations
All of the unpatented lode mining claims are on U.S. public land administered by the BLM. These claims give Corvus the right to explore for and mine minerals which include the metals gold and silver, subject to the necessary permits. The current exploration permits from BLM and NDEP allow Corvus surface access, maintenance of roads, drilling and sampling, and a defined amount of accompanying surface disturbance. The unpatented lode mining claims require payment of yearly maintenance fees to the BLM and Nye County (recording fees) of an aggregate of $144,459 (estimated for 2017). Annual property taxes to be paid by Corvus for some of the properties under the original six Redstar leases and subsequent leases are tabulated in Table 1.
The unpatented lode claims at the Mother Lode Property required payment of yearly maintenance fees to BLM and Nye County (recording fees) of an aggregate $16,323 (estimated for 2017).
Current exploration activities are covered by a Plan of Operations (NVN-83002) with the BLM. Two exploration Plans of Operation are in place with the Nevada Department of Environmental Protection (“NDEP”) (NDEP#0280 and #0290) that fulfill the State of Nevada permitting obligations on private and public lands, respectively. Additional exploration activities are covered by two Notices of Intent (NOI) with the BLM. Those NOIs (N-92210 and N-93906) have temporary terms renewable every 2 years, and currently extend to 2019. Reclamation bonds, related to environmental liabilities to which the NBP is subject, are in place to cover activities on the property. Corvus’ reclamation liabilities are covered by surety bonds issued by Lexon Insurance Company in the amount of $362,597 for 84.4 acres of disturbance on public land with the BLM and $209,070 for 25.4 acres of disturbance on private land with NDEP.
Accessibility, Physiography, Climate and Infrastructure at NBP
The NBP is accessible by a two and one half hour (209 km, 130 mile) drive north of Las Vegas, Nevada along US Highway 95. US 95 is the major transportation route between Las Vegas, Reno Nevada and Boise Idaho. Las Vegas is serviced by a major international airport. The property lies immediately to the west and to the east of the highway. Beatty, Nevada is the closest town to the property with a population of about 1,100 and contains most basic services. The nearest major supply point that would support a major mining related activity is Las Vegas, Nevada about 160 km to the southeast. There are several accessible old mine workings. Access around both Properties is by a series of reasonably good gravel and dirt roads that extend to most of the important exploration areas.
The property is in Western Nevada’s high desert, which receives about 15 cm of precipitation per year, mostly as modest snow fall in the winter and thunderstorms in the summer. The average daily temperature (°F) varies from a low of 40 in January to a high of 80 in July. The hills at the NBP are covered with sparse low brush including creosote, four-wing saltbush, rabbit brush and Nevada ephedra. The property is in the Basin and Range province, but the local topographic relief is only a few hundred feet. Most of the areas at the property are characterized by low hills separated by modest width valleys.
There are currently no other structures or infrastructure on the NBP. Major mining and construction equipment sales and service are readily available throughout Nevada; however, most major mining operations are located in the northern part of the state and are serviced from the cities of Reno and Elko. Human resources are readily available within the community of Beatty and historically provided a substantial portion of the workforce for the Bullfrog Mine, which operated between 1989 and 1998 as both an open pit and underground gold mining operation. Pahrump, approximately 110 km to the southeast of Beatty, is a larger community with a population of 36,000. Pahrump is a local regional center, with a hospital and emergency medical services, a college campus with technical training for industrial support and expanded service sectors.
Electrical power is provided to the immediate area of the NBP by the Valley Electric Association, Inc. (“VEA”), which is headquartered in Pahrump. A 25 kV line runs north from Beatty, NV along Highway 95. VEA began upgrading its existing electrical facilities, on the eastern portion of the NBP, in mid-2013. The upgrade has a separate circuit of 15 Mw capacity and will accommodate the presently anticipated future demand from the property. We anticipate that adequate power will be available for all proposed future mining operations at the property. The Company contributed US $28,500 for the line upgrade. Two electrical feeder lines run west from the main line, one to the perimeter of the NBP to power an aggregate crushing plant operating in the southern portion of NBP and a second that traverses the NBP to power a centrally located microwave station and the Company’s weather station which has been installed on Corvus controlled patented mining claims near Mayflower.
Water resources for a mining project at NBP must be obtained from the ground water. There appears to be sufficient resources in the ground water basins at the NBP, and the Company has registered the water rights purchased in Sarcobatus with the NSE. The Company will make application to convert the water rights to a temporary mining use, and to transfer the point of extraction to the NBP. Water wells, booster stations, and pipelines would be developed to provide water to the mine, process facilities, and ancillary structures. The current plan would be to drill several wells northwest of the heap leach pad and install a fresh water line from the well fields to the process plant. The first phase of the hydrologic characterization program was completed during the 2013 drill program, which successfully identified a potential water production well site in the Sarcobatus Flats (Nevada State Water Basin 146) within the northwest portion of the NBP.
Geology and Mineralization
Geology
The NBP is within the Walker Lane structural province and the Southwestern Nevada Volcanic Field (“SWNVF”). The Project lies approximately ten kilometres west of the western margin of the middle Miocene Timber Mountain caldera complex of the SWNVF and many of the volcanic units exposed on the NBP originated from the caldera complex. However, it appears that many of the most important host rocks to the mineralization are locally derived from what is now known as the North Bullfrog Hills Volcanic Complex (“NBVC”) and are slightly older than the main ash flows erupted from the Timber Mountain Caldera. The region is underlain by Paleozoic sedimentary rocks which are the basement for the mid-Miocene tuffs and related rocks that are the hosts for most of the mineralization in the Bullfrog mining district. The region was subjected to extensional faulting which was contemporaneous with volcanism and localized sedimentary basins filled with reworked volcanic and basement debris developed as a result. Multiple episodes of extension have been documented. Most of the major fault zones have northerly strikes with normal displacement to the west. However, hanging wall antithetic faults are also present. Some of the major faults are interpreted to have listric shapes, similar to the MP fault at the Bullfrog mine, and likely sole into a district-scale detachment fault at depth. During younger periods of extension many of the older faults in the hanging walls of these listric structures have experienced significant rotation. Figure 3 is a geologic map of NBP showing target exploration and resource areas;
Figure 3 Geologic Map of NBP Showing Target and Resource Areas and Legend of Geologic Symbols
The Northern Bullfrog Hills (“NBH”) is underlain by pre-Tertiary basement rocks consisting of Precambrian to Cambrian sedimentary rocks of the Wood Canyon, Zabriskie and Carrara Formations. The basement rocks are exposed on the property in two prominent erosional windows. The pre-Tertiary windows are remnants of a basement structural high of significant relief upon which the Tertiary rocks were deposited. The basement rocks are overlain by a sequence of Miocene volcanic and lesser sedimentary rocks of the SWNVF.
The lowermost Tertiary rocks are known as the Jolly Jane Formation and consist of a basal conglomerate overlain by a sequence of heterogeneous sedimentary rocks including mudstone, siltstone and sandstone. The basal conglomerate is a time transgressive surface lag deposit which generally contains abundant clasts of pre-Tertiary basement rocks. The type locality for this unit is known from drilling in the Jolly Jane area and consists of up to 50 metres of heterogeneous sediments which appear to have been accumulated in a structural basin prior to and during the onset of volcanism. Sandstone, silt, shale and calcareous sediments are present with both black organic-rich and hematitic intervals also present. It is common to see tuffaceous sediments in the upper portions of the sand and shale sequences. The thickness and composition of the Jolly Jane Formation is highly variable, and is interpreted to have been deposited on a Tertiary erosional unconformity of significant relief.
The Jolly Jane Formation is overlain by the Savage Formation which consists of locally-sourced lava domes, flows and associated intrusive rocks of dacitic to rhyolitic composition. The Savage Formation also includes intercalated volcaniclastic intervals (re-worked dacite) and locally carbonaceous sediments. It is rather heterogeneous in terms of the thickness and the areal distribution of individual domes, flows and epiclastic intervals. The Savage Formation is only locally mineralized.
The Pioneer Formation rhyolitic pyroclastics overlie the Savage Formation dacites. The Pioneer Formation ranges from 10 to more than 200 metres in thickness and consists of monotonous lithic lapilli tuffs. In the northern parts of the NBP these tuffs are mixed with rhyolite domes of uncertain origin, however, dating shows that the tuffs and rhyolites are essentially the same age. Epiclastic sediments found at the top of the Pioneer Formation suggest that an angular unconformity is developed between this sequence and the overlying Sierra Blanca Tuff. The Pioneer Formation is extensively altered and hosts a large portion of the disseminated gold mineralization.
The Sierra Blanca Tuff is a large rhyolitic ash flow tuff that blankets the NBP. Unlike the preceding units, which appear to have been locally derived, the Sierra Blanca Tuff probably represents a regional ash flow eruption that came from outside the NBP. The Sierra Blanca Tuff varies in thickness from <70 metres at Jolly Jane to >160 metres at North Sierra Blanca. The tuff consists of a single cooling unit and is densely welded. The densely welded nature makes the rock brittle and, as a consequence, it is the most important host for both disseminated and vein style mineralization at the NBP.
Following the deposition of the Sierra Blanca Tuff, local volcanism continued with the deposition of the Savage Dacite, another locally-sourced sequence of lava domes, flows, pyroclastics and epiclastics of primarily dacitic composition. The Savage Dacite varies greatly in both thickness and composition, characterized by alternating eruptive cycles of geochemically different dacitic magmas. The Savage Dacite is only mineralized where it is in contact with significant fault structures.
Zircon dating shows that the entire sequence from Pioneer Formation through the Savage Dacite was deposited between 16.1Ma and 14.4Ma, making it among the oldest volcanic in the region.
The 13.5Ma Crater Flat Tuff, which consists of two regionally extensive ash flow cooling units, appears to overlie the Savage Dacite at both Savage Valley and Jolly Jane but the contact is not exposed at the surface. The Crater Flat Tuffs are extensively altered at both YellowJacket and Jolly Jane but no significant mineralization has yet been identified in these units.
The Rainbow Mountain Sequence is the most heterogeneous unit of the NBH. It consists of intercalated sequences of heterolithic and monolithic sedimentary debris flow breccias, large slide bocks derived from local volcanic and sedimentary units, as well as rhyolitic ash flows and rhyolite domes. The debris flow breccias are bedded but poorly sorted, consisting of sand- to large boulder-size clasts of predominantly volcanic rocks. Both gravity sliding and fluvial processes appear to have played a role in deposition. The volcanic debris is derived from many of the SWNVF units that are preserved as tabular ash flow tuff sheets elsewhere in the Bullfrog Hills. These include the Crater Flat Group, the Paintbrush Group and the Timber Mountain Group tuffs. The debris flow breccia deposits are largely the result of the re-working of the SWNVF units via gravity sliding and alluvial fan development around fault-bounded basement structural highs. The Debris Flow Breccia sequence represents a period of dynamic extensional faulting, scarp development and mass wasting. Massive, relatively intact blocks of monolithic breccias are interpreted as landslide megabreccia deposits that were shed off local fault scarps. Gold mineralization at Mayflower and Connection is hosted in the Rainbow Mountain Sequence. The thickness of this unit exceeds 300 metres in the Mayflower area.
Mineralization
All of the mineralization at NBP can be classified as low-sulphidation epithermal mineralization. There are at least two and possibly three distinct periods of mineralization present. Older mineralization, before 11.2 Ma, is observed at the Sierra Blanca and Jolly Jane Mineral Resource areas. A younger mineralization, 10 Ma, occurs at the Mayflower Mineral Resource area.
In both mineralization periods, there are two styles of low suphidation gold/silver mineralization; (1) high grade, fault controlled fissure veins, vein breccias and stockworks (Mayflower, Liberator, YellowJacket, Liberty and others), and (2) low grade disseminated replacement deposits (Sierra Blanca, Jolly Jane and Mayflower). The low grade, disseminated mineralization is currently the more abundant type at NBP.
1)Sierra Blanca Mineralization
Mineralization at Sierra Blanca can be classified into six different styles:
·Disseminated gold mineralization associated with pervasive silica adularia and sulphidation of iron (ubiquitous at Sierra Blanca );
·Gold associated with fault controlled suphidation (NE30, NE50, NE60 Faults);
·Gold associated with quartz veining;
·Continuous quartz vein and associated stockworks (Josh vein at YellowJacket);
·Localized quartz veins and stockworks (numerous zones);
·Sulphide veining with gold and tellurium mineralization (Air Track Hill).
Pervasive disseminated mineralization occurs in the Pioneer Formation and Sierra Blanca Tuff over virtually the entire area at Sierra Blanca at 0.2-0.3 g/t gold grade. Oxidation of this mineralization extends locally to 200m and is associated with good cyanide leach metallurgical recovery. Fault hosted mineralization has been encountered in numerous locations (NS10, E30, NE40, NE50, NE60 and Savage Faults) with consistently higher gold grade (1-17 g/t) than the disseminated mineralization. Where oxidized, the fault zones respond well to cyanide leaching.
Quartz vein and stockwork mineralization occurs primarily in the YellowJacket deposit, a generally NW striking structural corridor along the eastern side of Sierra Blanca. The gold-bearing quartz vein and stockwork zones are generally gray translucent quartz with native gold and electrum, and varying amounts of acanthite or other silver sulphosalts. Metallurgical testing indicates high gold and silver recovery with cyanide leaching, both above and below the oxidation horizon.
The pervasive disseminated mineralization at Sierra Blanca and the Josh vein and stockwork mineralization at YellowJacket comprise approximately 84% of the gold resource at NBP.
2)Jolly Jane Mineralization
Jolly Jane is located in the middle of NBP and virtually all of the geological elements common to NBP are found there. Disseminated mineralization occurs within the Sierra Blanc Tuff, which is thinner, approximately 70 m as compared to a thickness of >160 m at Sierra Blanca. The mineralized Sierra Blanca Tuff is preserved a horst between the West Jolly Jane Fault and the East Jolly Jane Fault. Gold grade is similar to Sierra Blanca disseminated mineralization with slightly lower cyanide leach recovery.
3)Mayflower Mineralization
Younger, fracture controlled deposits at Mayflower and Pioneer were historically mined. The Mayflower Mine developed on a calcite vein and stockwork zone along a NW striking, steeply SW-dipping fault zone in silica-adularia-altered heterolithioc debris flow breccia in the Rainbow Mountain Sequence. Multiple high-grade gold areas have been identified, surrounded by low grade mineralization. Mayflower mineralization is typically 0. 4-0.5 g/t and is well oxidized with good cyanide leach recovery.
Historical Exploration Work
The NBP is in the Bullfrog Mining District. Gold was discovered at what was to become the original Bullfrog mine by Frank “Shorty” Harris and Ernest Cross on August 9, 1904. Two periods of mining activity account for the majority of production from the District. It is reported that 111,805 ounces of gold and 868,749 ounces of silver were produced between 1905 and 1921, after which there was little production until the 1980s. In early 1982 geologists from St. Joe Minerals Corporation became interested in the District. They conducted extensive exploration in the area of the Montgomery-Shoshone and Senator Stewart mines, resulting in the discovery of the Bullfrog deposit in mid-1986. Several company acquisitions resulted in Barrick Gold Corporation (“Barrick”) being the final owner of the mine. The Bullfrog mine produced gold and silver from three separate deposits including: 1) main Bullfrog (open pit and underground); 2) Montgomery-Shoshone (open pit); and 3) Bonanza Mountain (open pit). Between 1989 and 1999, it is reported that the Bullfrog mine produced 2.31 Moz of gold and 3.0 Moz of silver.
The early history of the NBP is comingled with the greater Bullfrog Mining District. The Pioneer and Mayflower were the principal mines in the northern part of the district. The Pioneer mine was most active between 1909 and 1926 with about 15,000 feet of underground workings, all being developed within 330 feet of the surface. There are no accurate production figures, but limited records suggest that head grades were about one quarter ounce of gold per ton. The Mayflower mine was probably active during the same time, but again there are no reliable production records. Underground development at Sierra Blanca, Jolly Jane, Savage Valley, and YellowJacket also attest to historic mining and production, probably during the same period.
Modern exploration started in the early 1970s and consisted of a number of companies with focuses on different parts of the property. These programs consisted of a variety of activities including surface mapping and sampling, underground mapping and sampling, and drilling.
Between the early 1970’s and the end of the Barrick exploration in the mid-1990’s, approximately 249 rotary and reverse-circulation drill holes were drilled on the NBP.
With the downturn in gold price at the start of the 21st Century, interest in the NBP was essentially nonexistent. Redstar became attracted to the North Bullfrog area in late 2005, and started staking claims and acquiring leases on patented mining claims. In March 2007, Redstar granted ITH the right to earn an interest in the NBP and thereafter form the NBPJV. In December 2007 ITH completed a lease of the Mayflower property, which was included in the NBPJV. Following the execution of the NBPJV agreement, ITH commenced active exploration on the NBP. In October 2008, Redstar completed a lease of the Connection property, which was also included in the NBPJV. On August 4, 2009, ITH purchased Redstar’s interests in the NBP and continued the exploration program as sole owner/lessor. On August 26, 2010, ITH spun out Corvus as a separate public company in a transaction which resulted in Corvus owning Corvus Nevada, through which all interest in the NBP was held, thus resulting in Corvus indirectly acquiring all of the interest in and responsibilities for the NBP.
Corvus Exploration Work
Recent NBP Exploration Work 2016-2017
The Company performed District wide exploration to assess the potential for further high-grade vein systems similar to the YellowJacket discovery, to extend the mineralization around the Sierra Blanca and YellowJacket resources and to assess the potential of other structural targets throughout the property. Drilling exploration was performed in two phases, with the first phase in April - July 2016 completing 20 RC drill holes for 6,257 m of drilling. The second phase of drilling was performed from September 2016 - April 2017 and completed 44 holes with 11,279 m of drilling.
The drilling tested mineralization in the new Western Zone (Figure 4) which is comprised of the previously named NW Sierra Blanca and Swale targets, and the Liberator Zone. These two zones border the Sierra Blanca and YellowJacket resources to the northwest (Western Zone) and northeast (Liberator Zone). Additional scout drilling and surface sampling investigated structural targets at North Jolly Jane, Savage Deep, East Savage Vein, Jim Dandy, West Connection and Cat Hill, which comprised a Phase I District “New Discovery” Program.
Figure 4: Map of 2016-2017 exploration targets, North Bullfrog project, Nevada
Target Reviews
Western Zone
The new Western Zone, which is a combination of the previously described NW Sierra Blanca and Swale targets, lies immediately west of the Company’s Sierra Blanca-YellowJacket resource (Figure 4). The mineralization intersected in the Western Zone is controlled by a large northeast trending structural zone which can be tracked for a strike length of nearly 1.5 kilometres. This zone hosts disseminated and stockwork related higher grade gold mineralization along its length. Mineralization at the Western Zone is associated with distinct highly altered dikes intruding the Sierra Blanca Tuff.
Liberator
The Liberator Zone is parallel to the YellowJacket deposit and has about the same strike length at nearly one kilometre. Although the Liberator and YellowJacket structural zones are parallel they dip in opposite directions with the YellowJacket dipping to the west and the Liberator dipping to the east, which led to the Liberator not being effectively tested in the past during the east directed YellowJacket drilling programs. The new Liberator discovery like the YellowJacket has returned drill intersections of shallow, higher grade gold mineralization. In addition, the Liberator also hosts broad zones of lower grade mineralization highlighting the extensive fluid flow of gold and silver rich solutions in a large structural
North Jolly Jane
The higher-grade zones in the North Jolly Jane target area are related to stockwork quartz veining along the West Jolly Jane fault zone and appear to be increasing as the drill program steps out to the north. The large District scale, West Jolly Jane Fault intersects another northeast trending District scale structural zone. In addition to structurally controlled higher grade mineralization, the North Jolly Jane target area has potential to develop a large new deposit of higher grade (twice the current grade) heap leach material that could enhance the project economics and production plan.
Cat Hill
The Cat Hill target hosts a large deeply oxidized low-grade gold system. Results to date have intersected widths and grades above cutoff for run of mine oxide material over a broad area but have yet to intersect mill grade material. The size of the mineralized system at Cat Hill is encouraging and further work is needed to identify the feeder structures for this system.
Savage Deep, East Savage Vein and Jim Dandy
Structural targets have been identified at the Savage Deep, East Savage Vein and Jim Dandy areas of NBP. Two to three holes were allocated to each of the targets to confirm geologic interpretations and to test for the presence of gold mineralization along the structures. Results indicate wide spread low-grade mineralization which is favorable for the presents of higher grade vein type systems.
Western Zone
The mineralization intersected in the Western Zone is controlled by a large northeast trending structural zone which can be tracked for a strike length of nearly 1.5 kilometres. Drilling to date has tested about ½ the length of the Western Zone structural extent. The zone contains two discreet fault zones that host higher grade mineralization and display good continuity along strike. These zones have been intersected from near surface down to a vertical depth of about 150 metres which is the depth of the currently designed pit to the east. The holes drilled in the 2016-2017 program are plotted in Figure 5, which also shows the surface projection of the Western Zone and the Liberator with respect to the YellowJacket Zone.
Additional potential exists for one or more zones to develop to the west of the current drill area as illustrated in prior hole NB-17-329 (NR17-2, February 23, 2017) with 38.1m @ 0.97 g/t gold from a new zone. In addition, exploration in 2014 tested a structural target some 300 metres west of the Western Zone and outlined a small higher grade resource whose expansion potential has yet to be followed up.
At the north end of the NE trending Western Zone at the intersection with the YellowJacket and Liberator systems, a large rhyolite intrusive body occurs covering an area of one kilometre by half a kilometre. This rhyolite body hosts broad zones of low-grade gold mineralization, as well as structurally controlled higher grade mineralization near the margins. This rhyolite body may have an important genetic relationship to the larger North Bullfrog gold system and important implication for deep targets below the current gold deposit. There is strongly elevated molybdenum (100-2800 ppm), uranium and zinc associated with gold mineralization within and adjacent to the rhyolite dome feature (Figure 6). The alteration and mineralization of the rhyolite body is characteristic of a high-level porphyry environment with potential at depth. Phase I and II drilling results are tabulated for all holes in the Western Zone in Table 3.
Figure 5: Map showing location of the Western Zone-Liberator Zone and YellowJacket-Sierra Blanca Pit outline.
Figure 6: Map of elevated Molybdenum and Rhyolite intrusive at the north end of Sierra Blanca-YellowJacket Deposit, North Bullfrog Project
Table 3: Drill Results from the Western Zone
(Reported drill intercepts are not true widths. At this time, there is insufficient data with respect to the shape of the true orientation in space.)
Liberator Zone
The Liberator Zone is parallel to the YellowJacket deposit and has about the same strike length at nearly one kilometre. Although the Liberator and YellowJacket structural zones are parallel they dip in opposite directions with the YellowJacket dipping to the west and the Liberator dipping to the east, which led to the Liberator not being effectively tested in the past during the east directed YellowJacket drilling programs. The new Liberator discovery like the YellowJacket has returned drill intersections of shallow, higher grade gold mineralization (NB-15-267, 11m @ 3.5 g/t Au, NR15-14, Oct. 15, 2015; NB-13-350, 6m @ 2.4 g/t Au, NR13-25, Oct. 10, 2013; NB-12-126, 5.7m @ 6 g/t Au, NR12-10, Mar. 22, 2012; NB-10-63, 14m @ 6 g/t Au, NR11-03, Feb. 1, 2011). In addition, the Liberator also hosts broad zones of lower grade mineralization highlighting the extensive fluid flow of gold and silver rich solutions in this large structural zone (NB-16-320, 108m @ 0.57 g/t Au; NB-16-303, 154m @ 0.54 g/t Au, NR16-11, Aug. 2, 2016; NB-15-267, 210m @ 0.47 g/t Au, NR15-14, Oct. 15, 2016; low grade halo around high-grade zone).
Infill holes drilled in the 2016-2017 program (shown in Figure 5) have added continuity to the overall Liberator mineralized zone and importantly have now defined its northern extension (NB-16-315 6.1m @ 1.06 g/t Au and 6.1m @ 1.14 g/t Au) below the intercept in hole NB-16-300 with 18m @ 1.8 g/t Au. Results from the northern portion of the Western Zone now show a direct connection to the main east dipping Liberator zone to the south. This work also highlighted a 250 metre section of the structure that is essentially untested, which hosts high-grade gold and silver mineralization. The higher-grade parts of the Liberator system are related to quartz stockwork and sulfidized zones at intersections with northeast structures, forming shoots within the very broad and extensive structurally controlled low-grade system. Follow-up drilling on the zone is being planned. Drill results for the holes drilled in the Liberator Zone are listed in Table 4.
Table 4: Drill Results from the Liberator Zone
(Reported drill intercepts are not true widths. At this time, there is insufficient data with respect to the shape of the mineralization to calculate its true orientation in space.)
North Jolly Jane
Higher-grade zones in the North Jolly Jane target area (Figure 7) are related to stockwork quartz veining along the West Jolly Jane fault zone and grades appear to be increasing as the drill program steps out to the north (NB-17-432 with 10.7m @ .0.80 g/t Au and 12.2m @ 0.76 g/t Au). The large District scale, West Jolly Jane Fault intersects another northeast trending District scale structural zone about 100 metres to the north of hole NB-17-432. In addition to structurally controlled higher grade zones the North Jolly Jane target area has potential to develop a large new deposit of higher grade (twice the current grade) heap leach material that could enhance the project economics and production plan. Drill holes from the North Jolly Jane target have returned broad zones of low-grade mineralization with several, plus ten-metre-thick zones of +0.5 g/t gold (Table 1). Results to date suggest grades are improving to the north where follow-up drilling is scheduled to begin shortly. Drill hole results for North Jolly Jane and a single hole drilled in main Jolly Jane are listed in Table 5.
Figure 7: Map showing drill holes at new North Jolly Jane
Table 5: Drill Results - North Jolly Jane Target and Main Jolly Jane East Structural Target
(Reported drill intercepts are not true widths. At this time, there is insufficient data with respect to the shape of the mineralization to calculate its true orientation in space.)
North Jolly Jane
Main Jolly Jane (east structural target)
Savage Deep, East Savage Vein and Jim Dandy Targets
Structural zone and vein targets were tested in the Savage Deep, East Savage Vein and Jim Dandy areas in the Phase II drilling program. Drill hole locations are shown, with respect to surface geology in Figure 8. The results of the drilling are listed in Table 6. Results from the Jim Dandy and Savage targets have demonstrated wide spread distribution of gold across the western side of the District. This extensive area of gold mineralization covers approximately 25 square kilometres and hosts three deposits. The eastern side of the District which is covered by a thin layer of high level barren alteration and is comparable in size and of similar age to the west and may host several new discoveries when further explored.
Figure 8: Map of North Bullfrog Project Exploration new discovery projects
Table 6: Phase II Drill Results - Savage Deep, East Savage Vein and Jim Dandy Targets
(Reported drill intercepts are not true widths. At this time, there is insufficient data with respect to the shape of the mineralization to calculate its true orientation in space.)
Savage Deep and East Savage Vein
Jim Dandy
Cat Hill and West Connection
Drill holes targeted vein structures and broad areas of low grade mineralization in the Cat Hill area. A single hole was drilled west of the Connection resource area to test potential for higher grade mineralized structures. Figure 8 shows the location of the holes in the Cat Hill and West Connection areas. The drill results are summarized in Table 7.
Table 7: Phase II Drill Results - Cat Hill and West Connection
(Reported drill intercepts are not true widths. At this time, there is insufficient data with respect to the shape of the mineralization to calculate its true orientation in space.)
West Connection
Cat Hill
Planned NBP Exploration Work 2017-2018
Work on the North Bullfrog Project in the coming fiscal year will focus on exploration drilling for the expansion of the YellowJacket deposit and follow-up exploration at the North Jolly Jane and new targets within the district. The proposed budget for this work is approximately $400,000
Development Activities
Monitoring programs to develop baseline characterization data for support of future permitting activities continued during the year. A water sampling event was conducted in September 2016, where all monitoring wells and springs were sampled. Water quality monitoring well, NB-WW-04, was re-completed in January 2017 by installing an electric powered, submersible well pump. The pump has the capacity to completely empty the well in approximately 20 minutes, and will allow the project to verify historic water quality data collected in the well.
The Company’s Sarcobatus water production well was re-conditioned by installing a new casing and submersible pump. The well was produced for sustained 4 hour periods to characterize the transmissivity of the aquifer at the Company’s property to the north of the North Bullfrog Project.
Metallurgical testing of mineralization from the YellowJacket, Liberator and Western Zone was begun in Q1 of calendar year 2017. The testing included flotation concentration tests of 11 concentration samples, and 5 column leach tests. The column leach tests are underway, and results are pending. High recovery of gold to concentrate was achieved in all of the 11 concentration samples. Following the production of concentrate samples, the sulphide concentrates were re-ground, and then oxidized using Ambient Atmospheric Oxidation (AAO), injected oxygen and, with both Soda Ash and Trona as the neutralizer. The oxidized concentrates were then leached with a cyanide solution in bottle roll tests. Virtually 100% of the concentrate was oxidized in the tests, and high proportions of the contained gold were leached from the oxidized concentrates. Table 8 summarizes the results of the concentrate testing for the four rock types containing the majority of the sulphide mineralization at NBP, and soda ash. Similar results were obtained using Trona as a neutralizing agent, and are listed in Table 9.
Table 8: Gold recovery in concentration tests and AAO tests of North Bullfrog Project
Sulphide Mineralization using Soda Ash.
Table 9: Gold recovery in concentration tests and AAO tests of North Bullfrog Project
Sulphide Mineralization using Trona.
Mineral Resource Estimates
North Bullfrog Project Resource Estimate
A mineral resource estimate for the NBP, effective as at June 16, 2015, has been prepared as part of the updated Technical Report. The basis for the mineral resource estimates at the NBP is geologic models developed by Corvus’ geologists. Geologic logs, alteration and geochemical data were used to define the mineralized zones, and were the limiting factor for gold distribution for the resource estimations. Both Ordinary Kriging and Inverse Distance calculations were used to develop block models of gold and silver mineralization at several cut-off grades (“COG”). The mineral resource is subdivided according to the specific processing requirements of the different types of mineralization, and consists of higher grade mineralization within the YellowJacket Zone, which would require mill circuit with gravity concentration and cyanide leaching of the concentrate and gravity tail, and lower grade, oxidized disseminated mineralization from the Sierra Blanca, Jolly Jane and Mayflower areas, which would be suitable for run-of-mine heap leach processing. The estimated mineral resource is summarized in Table 10, where it has been estimated as the portion of mineralization with reasonable prospects for extraction defined by Whittle® analysis of the resource block models. The Whittle® software defined an open pit mining shell at a gold price of US $1,200/oz, economic parameters typical of Nevada open pit mines and metallurgical recoveries indicated by NBP testing data received to date. The estimated mineral resource is defined by mineralization falling within the open pit mining shell which would be processed and is listed in Table 10.
Table 10: Measured, Indicated, and Inferred Mineral Resource Estimate for the North Bullfrog Project Defined by
Whittle TM pit volumes, including both the YellowJacket Vein/Stockwork and Disseminated Oxide Mineralization at $1,200 Gold Price
* - Analysis assumes a fixed ratio of the gold to silver prices of 73.7
**-Breakeven grade derived from Whittle input parameters at US$1,200/oz gold price and Gold:Silver price ratio of 73.7
***- See Cautionary Note to US Investors below
****-The Mineral Resources above are effective as of June 16, 2015.
*****-Mineral Resources that are not Mineral Reserves do not have demonstrated economic viability.
****** - Mr. Scott E. Wilson is the QP responsible for reviewing and approving the Mineral Resource Estimate contained herein.
Cautionary Note to US Investors: The terms Measured, Indicated Resource and Inferred Resource as described in Table 10 above are as defined in Canadian National Instrument 43-101. These terms are not defined under SEC Industry Guide 7 and are not recognized by the SEC. These estimated mineral resources are not SEC Industry Guide 7 proven and probable reserves. See “Cautionary Note to US Investors Regarding Mineral Reserve and Resource Estimates” above.
Mother Lode Property, Nevada
The Company has acquired a satellite property, the Mother Lode Property (Figure 1 above), which is located immediately east of Beatty, Nevada, in Nye County. The Mother Lode Property is in the Bare Mountain District, and was previously mined by Glamis Gold Ltd. as part of the Daisy Project. The Company acquired the 13 Federal mining claims comprising the Mother Lode Property from Goldcorp USA, Inc. on June 9, 2017. The Company has also staked an additional 30 claims (the MN claim group) to the northwest of the Mother Lode claims and an additional 22 claims (the ME claim group) to the east of the Mother Lode claims.
Due to the recent acquisition of the property and the need to verify historical data through a new exploration program, the Company does not currently consider the Mother Lode Property a material property. The Mother Lode Property does not have any known proven or probable reserves under SEC Industry Guide 7 and is exploratory in nature.
Mother Lode Property (Figure 9) forms a satellite property to the North Bullfrog Project, located in Nye County Nevada in the Bare Mountain District, south and east of the community of Beatty. The Mother Lode Property covers about 542 hectares of Federal mining claims in Sections 1, 12 and 13 of T12S, R47E and Sections 6, 7, 8, 9, 16 and 18 of T12S, R48E, MDBM.
Figure 9: Property Map showing the Mother Lode claim blocks, green outlines show the Federal claim block boundaries
The Mother Lode Property covers approximately 101 hectare and containing a historic (non-NI-43-101 compliant) resource of 8.5Mt at a grade of 1.6 g/t gold totaling 430,000 oz. of gold. In addition, Corvus Gold Nevada Inc. staked two additional claim blocks adjacent to the Mother Lode Property totaling 420 hectare, covering areas of exploration and development potential. The Mother Lode Property is in close proximity to Corvus Gold’s NBP with potential as a large satellite operation. The historic estimates for the Mother Lode Property contained herein should not be relied upon. These estimates are not NI-43-101 compliant. While Corvus considers these historical estimates to be relevant to investors as it may indicate the presence of mineralization, a qualified person for Corvus has not done sufficient work to classify the historical estimates as current mineral resources as defined by NI 43-101 and Corvus is not treating these historical estimates as a current mineral resource.
Terms of the transaction with Goldcorp Inc. include:
·Issuance of 1,000,000 Common Shares at $0.81 per share
The Mother Lode Property has an existing 1% NSR on production from the Mother Lode Property as well as an additional 1% NSR when gold price is over USD $1,400/ ounce
The Mother Lode deposit is similar in age to the historic Bullfrog Mine and the newly discovered NBP, and is hosted in both Tertiary volcanic-sedimentary rocks and Paleozoic sedimentary rocks. The mineralization at the Mother Lode Property occurs as low angle, north dipping, near surface, tabular bodies of mixed sulfide and oxide mineralization. Key structural controls in the deposit appear to be a series of north northwest high angle structures which have acted as conduits for mineralizing fluids (similar to the YellowJacket deposit at North Bullfrog). An important untested target for additional high-grade mineralization is the intersection of the major, low angle east-northeast trending Fluorspar Canyon Fault Zone and the high-angle N-NW trending feeder structures approximately 50 metres below the existing Mother Lode deposit.
The Mother Lode deposit was mined in the late 1980’s when gold price was about $400/ounce. Fluctuating and depressed gold prices caused the operation to close in 1989 after less than 3 years and producing just 34,000 ounces of gold. Nearly all of the 172 development and exploration drill holes on the property were drilled vertically and are less than 200 metres deep. This vertical drilling pattern was not optimal for defining the steeply dipping, high-grade structural systems, although some did intersect a couple of these zones (ML-086: 24m @ 4.4g/t Au; D-442: 24m @ 5.1g/t Au; D-445: 18m @ 7.4g/t). The current deposit has three defined tabular bodies that are all currently open for expansion down dip and to the west.
Corvus has not conducted any exploration activities on the Mother Lode Property due to its recent acquisition. The current Mother Lode land package is limited in size, but adequate for the currently envisioned satellite mining project and surface processing facilities. Corvus is also considering a plan where the higher-grade ore would be trucked to the planned Corvus mill facility at the NBP which is approximately 20 miles away by road. Preliminary column test, heap leach metallurgical work on the deposit indicates heap leach potential for the lower grade material. Currently, there are no resource estimates at the Mother Lode Property. Estimates of gold mineralization at Mother Lode are available in historical data obtained during the property purchase. Verification of those data will be performed by drilling planned to start in September 2017, which can provide the basis of a resource estimate.
As Corvus geologists and engineers review the extensive digital and hard copy database the Company will provide project and exploration target updates during the summer of 2017. Corvus currently plans to begin its initial phase of resource confirmation and exploration drilling on the Mother Lode Property in the fall of this year. Corvus has set a preliminary budget for exploration work at the Mother Lode Property of $1,000,000.
Qualified Person and Quality Control/Quality Assurance
Jeffrey A. Pontius (CPG 11044), a qualified person as defined by National Instrument 43-101, has supervised the preparation of the scientific and technical information that forms the basis for the NBP disclosure in this Annual Report on Form 10-K (other than the NBP mineral resource estimate) and has reviewed and approved the disclosure herein. Mr. Pontius is not independent of the Company, as he is the CEO and holds Common Shares and incentive stock options.
The exploration program at the NBP was supervised by Mark Reischman, Nevada Exploration Manager, who was responsible for all aspects of the work, including the quality control/quality assurance program. On-site personnel at the project log and track all samples prior to sealing and shipping. All sample shipments are sealed and shipped to ALS Minerals in Reno, Nevada, for preparation and then on to ALS Minerals in Reno, Nevada, or Vancouver, B.C., for assay. McClelland Laboratories Inc. prepared composites from duplicated RC sample splits collected during drilling. Bulk samples were sealed on site and delivered to McClelland Laboratories Inc. by ALS Minerals or Corvus personnel. All metallurgical testing reported here was conducted or managed by McClelland Laboratories Inc.
Mr. Scott E. Wilson, CPG, President of Metal Mining Consultants Inc., is an independent consulting geologist specializing in Mineral Reserve and Resource calculation reporting, mining project analysis and due diligence evaluations. He acted as the Qualified Person, as defined in NI 43-101, for the overall NBP Technical Report, and the Mineral Resource estimate. Mr. Wilson has over 26 years of experience in surface mining and is a Registered Member (#4025107RM) of Society for Mining, Metallurgy and Exploration, Inc. Mr. Wilson and Metal Mining Consultants, Inc. are independent of the Company under NI 43-101. Mr. Wilson has reviewed and approved the NBP Mineral Resource estimate contained herein.
Carl Brechtel (Colorado PE 23212 and Nevada PE 8744), a qualified person as defined by National Instrument 43-101, has supervised the NBP metallurgical testing program and has reviewed and approved the disclosure in this Annual Report on Form 10-K related thereto. Mr. Brechtel is not independent of the Company, as he is the Chief Operating Officer and holds Common Shares and incentive stock options.
ALS Minerals’ quality system complies with the requirements for the International Standards ISO 9001:2000 and ISO 17025:1999. Analytical accuracy and precision are monitored by the analysis of reagent blanks, reference material and replicate samples. Quality control is further assured by the use of international and in-house standards. Finally, representative blind duplicate samples are forwarded to ALS Minerals and an ISO compliant third party laboratory for additional quality control.
ITEM 3.