ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
Nevada Properties
NBP and MLP
Our principal mineral properties are the NBP and the MLP, which form a unified gold exploration project (the “NBP-MLP”) located in northwestern Nye County, Nevada, in the Northern Bullfrog Hills and Bare Mountains to the east, north and west of the town of Beatty. The NBP-MLP does not have any known proven or probable reserves under SEC Industry Guide 7 and the project is exploratory in nature. The Technical Report, “Technical Report and Preliminary Economic Assessment for the Integrated Mother Lode and North Bullfrog Projects, Bullfrog Mining District, Nye County, Nevada” is available under Corvus’ SEDAR profile at www.sedar.com and EDGAR profile at www.sec.gov. The Technical Report describes the integration of the two properties into a single mining operation. The Technical Report is referred to herein for informational purposes only and is not incorporated herein by reference. The Technical Report contains disclosure regarding Mineral Resources that are not SEC Industry Guide 7 compliant proven or probable reserves. See “Cautionary Note to U.S. Investors Regarding Estimates of Measured, Indicated and Inferred Resources and Proven and Probable Reserves” above.
The preliminary economic assessment on the NBP and the MLP is preliminary in nature and includes “inferred mineral resources” that have a great amount of uncertainty as to their existence and are considered too speculative geologically to have economic considerations applied to them that would enable them to be categorized as mineral reserves. It cannot be assumed that all, or any part, of an inferred mineral resource will ever be upgraded to a higher category.
The following disclosure is derived, in part, and supported by the Technical Report.
Property Description and Location
The NBP-MLP is located in the Bullfrog Hills and Bare Mountains of northwestern Nye County, Nevada (Figure 1), and covers about 12,314 hectares of patented and unpatented mining claims in sections 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, 31, 32, 33, 34, 35 and 36 of T10S R46E, in sections 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 23, 24, 25, 26, 34 and 35 of T11S R46E, in sections 2, 3, 9, and 10 of T12S R46E, in sections 19, 30, 31 and 32 of T10S R47E, in sections 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 16, 17, and 18 of T11S R47E, in sections 10, 11, 14, 15, 16, 22, 23, 26, 27, 34, 35 and 36 of T11S R47E, in sections 1, 2, 3, 4, 9, 10, 11, 12 and 13 of T12S R47E, and in sections 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 16, 17 and 18 of T12S R48E of MDBM. In addition at NBP, we have a total of nine option/lease agreements in place that give us control of an aggregate of 51 patented lode mining claims (Figure 1). Corvus Nevada owns an additional five patented claims (the Millman claims) and a 430 acre property with 1600 acre-feet of water rights located north of NBP in the Sacrobatus hydrographic basin (Basin 146). During October 2018, the NBP was extended to the south by locating the GAP claims, which consist of 190 Federal Lode mining claims extending south from the previous southwest boundary of the NBP.
Figure 1. Property Map showing the Location of the North Bullfrog, Mother Lode and Gap claim groups with respect to the town of Beatty, NV.
The MLP is located north of the Bare Mountains of northwestern Nye County, Nevada (Figure 1) and is connected to the southeast corner of the NBP. The MLP consists of about 3,570 hectares (8,820 acres) of federal unpatented lode mining claims located in Sections 10, 11, 14, 15, 22, 23, 26, 27, 34, 35 and 36 of T11S, R47E; Sections 1, 2, 3, 9, 10, 11, 12, and 13 of T12S, R47E; and Sections 6, 7, 8, 9, 16, 17 and 18 of T12S, R48E, Mount Diablo Base and Meridian (“MDBM”). The individual claim blocks are the MN claims, the Mother Lode claims and the ME claims.
Studies at the MLP-NBP have been focused on the integration of the NBP and the MLP into a single mining operation. The Technical Report describing the integrated NBP-MLP dated November 1, 2018 and amended November 8, 2018 is available on SEDAR.
Title and Ownership
Redstar Gold Joint Venture and ITH Land Purchase
Redstar Gold Corp. (“Redstar”) originally staked 213 unpatented lode mining claims and optioned 21 patented lode mining claims from six private parties in 2006. ITH optioned the original NBP land package from Redstar in 2006, creating the North Bullfrog Property Joint Venture (“NBPJV”). ITH added 11 patented lode mining claims (the Mayflower property) to the NBPJV in 2007 under the Greenspun lease agreement. Redstar added 12 patented lode mining claims (the Connection and adjacent properties) to the NBPJV in 2008 under the lease agreement with Lunar Landing LLC. In August 2009 ITH purchased 100% interest in the NBPJV from Redstar by paying Redstar $250,000 and issuing 200,000 ITH common shares. These holdings were then transferred to Corvus during the spin out. Corvus completed an additional option lease agreement on two patented lode mining claims in the Jolly Jane area in March 2011. In May 2014, Corvus amended its existing lease agreement with Kolo Corp. to add the Yellow Rose and Yellow Rose No. 1 claims. In March 2015 Corvus added a second option lease agreement with Lunar Landing LLC, to lease the Sunflower, Sunflower No. 1 and Sunflower No. 2 claims for a total of nine option agreements on private land. Table 1 summarizes the obligations of the nine leases which are part of Corvus’ responsibilities on the NBP.
Table 1: Summary of Lease Obligations that are part of the NBP
(1)Original title transferred from Hall to Wiley due to death in the family
(2)Plus 50,000 shares of ITH and 25,000 Common Shares
(3)Estimated
Corvus has added an additional 808 federal unpatented lode mining claims which were staked in 2012, and added an additional 57 federal unpatented lode mining claims which were staked in late 2014.
The Gregory, Wiley, Kolo Corp., Milliken, Pritchard and Lunar Landing leases contain provisions for extension of the lease beyond the initial term, as long as active exploration or mining activities are maintained by the Company. The leases are now extended annually under this provision.
Gregory Property (North Pioneer Area) Notification of Extension Term
Pursuant to a mining lease made and entered into as of June 16, 2006 between Redstar and an arm’s length individual, Redstar has leased one patented mineral claims which form part of the North Bullfrog project holdings. The lease is for an initial term of 10 years, and for so long thereafter as mining activities continue on the claims or contiguous claims held by the lessee. The lessee is required to pay advance minimum royalty payments (recoupable from production royalties) of USD 2,000 on execution, USD 2,000 on each of June 16, 2007, 2008 and 2009, USD 3,000 on June 16, 2010 and each anniversary thereafter, adjusted for inflation. The lessor is entitled to receive a 2% NSR royalty on all production, which may be purchased by the lessee for USD 1,000,000 per 1% (USD 2,000,000 for the entire royalty).
Hall Property (Savage Valley Area)
Pursuant to a mining lease made and entered into as of May 22, 2006 between Redstar and two arm’s length individuals, Redstar has leased three patented mineral claims. The lease is for an initial term of 10 years, and for so long thereafter as mining activities continue on the claims or contiguous claims held by the lessee. The lessee is required to pay advance minimum royalty payments (recoupable from production royalties) of USD 8,000 on execution, USD 4,800 on each of May 22, 2007, 2008 and 2009, USD 7,200 on May 22, 2010 and each anniversary thereafter, adjusted for inflation. The lessor is entitled to receive a 2% NSR royalty on all production, which may be purchased by the lessee for USD 1,000,000 per 1% (USD 2,000,000 for the entire royalty).
Kolo Property (Jolly Jane Area)
Pursuant to a mining lease made and entered into as of May 8, 2006 between Redstar and an arm’s length private Nevada corporation, Redstar has leased two patented mining claims (Jolly Jane and ZuZu). The lease is for an initial term of 10 years, and for so long thereafter as mining activities continue on the claims or contiguous claims held by the lessee. The lessee is required to pay advance minimum royalty payments (recoupable from production royalties) of USD 2,000 on execution, USD 2,000 on each of May 8, 2007, 2008 and 2009, USD 3,000 on May 8, 2010 and each anniversary thereafter, adjusted for inflation. The lessor is entitled to receive a 3% NSR royalty on all production from the Jolly Jane and ZuZu claims, which may be purchased by the lessee for USD 850,000 per 1% (USD 2,550,000 for the entire royalty).
The Kolo lease agreement was amended on May 29, 2014 to add the Yellow Rose and Yellow Rose No. 1 patented claims to the agreement. The term remained the same, but the amended lease includes additional Advance Minimum Royalty payments of USD 2,400 per year for years one and two, increasing to USD 3,600 per year thereafter (adjusted for inflation) for the Yellow Rose claims. The Lessor is entitled to receive a 3% NSR royalty on all production from the Yellow Rose claims, which may be purchased by the lessee for USD 770,000 per 1% (USD 2,310,000 for the entire royalty).
Milliken Property (Pioneer Area)
Pursuant to a mining lease made and entered into as of May 8, 2006 between Redstar and two arm’s length individuals, Redstar has leased three patented mining claims. The lease is for an initial term of 10 years, and for so long thereafter as mining activities continue on the claims or contiguous claims held by the lessee. The lessee is required to pay advance minimum royalty payments (recoupable from production royalties) of USD 4,000 on execution, USD 3,500 on each of May 8, 2007, 2008 and 2009, USD 4,500 on May 8, 2010 and each anniversary thereafter, adjusted for inflation. The lessor is entitled to receive a 2% NSR royalty on all production, which may be purchased by the lessee for USD 1,000,000 per 1% (USD 2,000,000 for the entire royalty).
Prichard Property (Pioneer Area)
Pursuant to a mining lease made and entered into as of May 16, 2006 between Redstar and an arm’s length individual, Redstar has leased 12 patented mineral claims. The lease is for an initial term of 10 years, and for so long thereafter as mining activities continue on the claims or contiguous claims held by the lessee. The lessee is required to pay advance minimum royalty payments (recoupable from production royalties) of USD 20,500 on execution and USD 20,000 on each anniversary thereafter. The lessor is entitled to receive a 4% NSR royalty on all production, which may be purchased by the lessee for USD 1,000,000 per 1% (USD 4,000,000 for the entire royalty).
Lunar Property (Connection Area)
Pursuant to a mining lease and option to purchase agreement made effective October 27, 2008 between Redstar and an arm’s length limited liability company, Redstar has leased (and has the option to purchase) 12 patented mining claims. The ten-year, renewable mining lease requires advance minimum royalty payments (recoupable from production royalties, but not applicable to the purchase price if the option to purchase is exercised) of USD 10,800 on signing and annual payments for the first three anniversaries of USD 10,800 and USD 16,200 for every year thereafter. Redstar has an option to purchase the property (subject to the NSR royalty below) for USD 1,000,000 at any time during the life of the lease. Production is subject to a 4% NSR royalty, which may be purchased by the lessee for USD 1,250,000 per 1% (USD 5,000,000 for the entire royalty).
Lunar Property (Sunflower Area)
Pursuant to a mining lease and option to purchase agreement made effective March 30, 2015 between Corvus Nevada and an arm’s length limited liability company, Corvus Nevada has leased (and has the option to purchase) three patented mining claims. The three and a half year, renewable mining lease requires advance minimum royalty payments (recoupable from production royalties, but not applicable to the purchase price if the option to purchase is exercised) of USD 5,000 on signing and annual payments for the three anniversaries of USD 5,000. Corvus Nevada has an option to purchase the property (subject to the NSR royalty below) for USD 300,000 at any time during the life of the lease. Production is subject to a 4% NSR royalty, which may be purchased by the lessee for USD 500,000 per 1% (USD 2,000,000 for the entire royalty).
Sussman Property (Jolly Jane Area)
Pursuant to a mining lease and option to purchase made effective March 1, 2011 between Corvus Nevada and an arm’s length individual, Corvus Nevada has leased, and has the option to purchase, two patented mineral claims. The lease is for an initial term of 10 years, subject to extension for an additional 10 years (provided advance minimum royalties are timely paid), and for so long thereafter as mining activities continue on the claims. The lessee is required to pay advance minimum royalty payments (recoupable from production royalties, but not applicable to the purchase price if the option to purchase is exercised) of USD 20,000 on execution, USD 25,000 on each of March 1, 2012, 2013 and 2014, USD 30,000 on March 1, 2015 and each anniversary thereafter, adjusted for inflation. The lessor is entitled to receive a 2% NSR royalty on all production. The lessee may purchase the royalty for USD 1,000,000 per 1%. If the lessee purchases the entire royalty (USD 2,000,000) the lessee will also acquire all interest of the lessor in the subject property.
Greenspun Property (Mayflower Area)
ITH, through what is now Corvus Nevada, entered into a mining lease with an option to purchase with the Greenspun Group for 183 acres of patented lode mining claims that cover much of the Mayflower prospect. The Mayflower lease requires Corvus to make payments and complete work programs as outlined in Table 2. During the term of the lease any production from the Mayflower property is subject to a sliding scale royalty, also outlined in Table 2. Corvus has the right to purchase a 100% interest in the Mayflower property for $7.5 million plus a 0.5% NSR (if gold is less than $500) or 1.0% (if gold is above $500) at any time during the term of the lease (subject to escalation for inflation if the option is exercised after the 10th year of the lease). The annual property taxes to be paid by Corvus for the Mayflower property are $214. On February 11, 2015, the Mayflower mining lease with option to purchase was amended with the addition of an anti-dilution clause applying to the ITH shares and with an increase in the annual payment to include 25,000 Common Shares. On November 22, 2017, the term of the lease was extended for 10 additional years to December 7, 2027.
Table 2: Summary of the Material Terms of the Mayflower/Greenspun Group Lease
Millman Property
On February 21, 2013 Corvus Nevada signed a purchase agreement, which was subsequently closed on March 28, 2013, for the purchase of the surface rights only to five patented lode mining claims owned by Mr. and Mrs. Gordon Millman and located east of the Mayflower Property. This ground could be used for potential overburden storage from the Mayflower deposit as well as improving access to the Mayflower Property in general. Corvus Nevada purchased the surface rights for USD 160,000. Additionally, Corvus Nevada agreed to pay the Millmans a fee of US $0.02 per ton of any potential overburden storage subject to a minimum storage of 12 million short tons of material. The note for the storage fee of $240,000 was paid on December 17, 2015.
Sarcobatus Property
In December 2013, SoN Land and Water LLC, wholly owned by Corvus Nevada, completed the purchase of an 170 hectare fee simple parcel of land approximately 30 kilometres northwest of the NBP which carries with it 1,600 acre feet of irrigation water rights within the Sarcobatus Flats water basin. The cost of the land and associated water rights was USD 1,034,626. The Company has registered the purchase of water rights with the Nevada State Engineer (“NSE”) and has changed the use to mining on July 18, 2017. Corvus has received a temporary transfer of the extraction point for a portion of the water (80 acre feet) to the NBP. Corvus has applied to transfer the point of extraction of all of the water rights to the NBP, and that application is in process. The water right requires annual renewal and the 2019 application is pending approval.
Other property considerations
All of the unpatented lode mining claims are on U.S. public land administered by the BLM. These claims give Corvus the right to explore for and mine minerals, including gold and silver, subject to the necessary permits. The current exploration permits from BLM and NDEP allow Corvus surface access, maintenance of roads, drilling and sampling, and a defined amount of accompanying surface disturbance. The unpatented lode mining claims require payment of yearly maintenance fees to the BLM and Nye County (recording fees) of an aggregate of USD 145,000 (estimated for 2019). Annual property taxes to be paid by Corvus for some of the properties under the original six Redstar leases and subsequent leases are listed in Table 1.
The unpatented lode claims at the Mother Lode property will require payment of yearly maintenance fees to BLM and Nye County (recording fees) of an estimated USD 100,000 (estimated for 2019).
Current exploration activities are covered by a Plan of Operations (NVN-83002) with the BLM. Two exploration Plans of Operation are in place with the NDEP (NDEP#0280 private land and #0290 public land administered by the BLM) that fulfill the State of Nevada permitting obligations on private and public lands, respectively. Additional exploration activities are covered by five Notices of Intent (“NOI”) with the BLM. Those NOIs (N-9221, N-93906, N-95622, N-96894 and N-96991) have temporary terms renewable every two years, and currently extend to 2020. Reclamation bonds, related to environmental liabilities to which the Properties are subject, are in place to cover activities on the Properties. Corvus’ reclamation liabilities are covered by surety bonds issued by Lexon Insurance Company in the amount of USD 284,386 for 89.2 acres (excludes the NOI bonded obligations) of disturbance on public land with the BLM and USD 209,070 for 25.4 acres of disturbance on private land with NDEP. An additional $126,805 of reclamation liability cost for the five NOIs is also covered by the Lexon Insurance Company.
Accessibility, Physiography, Climate and Infrastructure at NBP-MLP
The Properties are accessible by a two and one half hour (209 kilometres, 130 mile) drive north of Las Vegas, Nevada along US Highway 95. US Highway 95 is the major transportation route between Las Vegas, Nevada, Reno, Nevada and Boise Idaho. Las Vegas is serviced by a major international airport. The Properties lie immediately to the west and to the east of the highway. Beatty, Nevada is the closest town to the property with a population of about 1,100 and contains most basic services. The nearest major supply point that would support a major mining related activity is Las Vegas, Nevada about 160 kilometres to the southeast. There are several accessible old mine workings. Access around both Properties is by a series of reasonably good gravel and dirt roads that extend to most of the important exploration areas.
The Properties are in Western Nevada’s high desert, which receives about 15 centimetres of precipitation per year, mostly as modest snow fall in the winter and thunderstorms in the summer. The average daily temperature (°F) varies from a low of 40 (5 °C) in January to a high of 80 (27 °C) in July. The hills at the Properties are covered with sparse low brush including creosote, four-wing saltbush, rabbit brush and Nevada ephedra. The Properties are in the Basin and Range province, with the local topographic relief ranging from only a few hundred feet to 1000 feet. Most of the areas at the Properties are characterized by low hills separated by modest width valleys.
There are currently no other structures or infrastructure on the Properties. Major mining and construction equipment sales and service are readily available throughout Nevada; however, most major mining operations are located in the northern part of the state and are serviced from the cities of Reno and Elko. Human resources are readily available within the community of Beatty and historically provided a substantial portion of the workforce for the Bullfrog Mine, which operated between 1989 and 1998 as both an open pit and underground gold mining operation. Pahrump, approximately 110 kilometres to the southeast of Beatty, is a larger community with a population of 36,000. Pahrump is a local regional center, with a hospital and emergency medical services, a college campus with technical training for industrial support and expanded service sectors.
Electrical power is provided to the immediate area of both the NBP and Mother Lode Properties by the Valley Electric Association, Inc. (“VEA”), which is headquartered in Pahrump. A 135 kV line runs from the south to the Beatty substation, and a 25 kV line runs north from Beatty, NV along Highway 95. VEA began upgrading its existing electrical facilities, on the eastern portion of the NBP, in mid-2013. The upgrade has a separate circuit of 15 Mw capacity and will accommodate the presently anticipated future demand at NBP. The Company contributed USD 28,500 for the line upgrade. Two electrical feeder lines run west from the main line, one to the perimeter of the NBP to power an aggregate crushing plant operating in the southern portion of NBP and a second that traverses the NBP to power a centrally located microwave station and the Company’s weather station which has been installed on Corvus controlled patented mining claims near Mayflower. A feeder line currently runs from US Highway 95 up Fluorspar Canyon to a communications installation in the Bare Mountains above Mother Lode. We anticipate that adequate power will be available for all proposed future mining operations at both Properties.
Water resources for a mining project at NBP must be obtained from the ground water. There appears to be sufficient resources in the ground water basins at the NBP, and the Company has registered the water rights purchased in Sarcobatus with the NSE. The Company has converted the Sarcobatus water rights to a temporary mining use, and has applied to transfer the point of extraction to the NBP. Water wells, booster stations, and pipelines would be developed to provide water to the mine, process facilities, and ancillary structures. The current plan would be to drill several wells northwest of the heap leach pad and install a fresh water line from the well fields to the process plant. The hydrologic characterization program was advanced at the end of 2018 by drilling a water well in the NW corner of NBP which confirmed the potential of water well sites in the Sarcobatus Flats (Nevada State Water Basin 146) within the northwest portion of the NBP.
In 2019 the NSE conveyed existing water rights at the Mother Lode project to Corvus. The water rights, 144.4 acre-feet, were used for mining of the Mother Lode mine and the Daisy mine during the period 1988-1996 and represent the combined duty of 3 existing water wells near Mother Lode (MW-3, MW-4 and PW-2). Corvus has developed video borehole logs that confirmed the condition of the wells and has re-completed 2 of the wells (MW-3 and MW-4) to supply water for future exploration drilling.
Geology and Mineralization
Regional Geologic Setting
NB-MLP lies within the Walker Lane mineral belt and the Southwestern Nevada Volcanic Field (SWNVF). The regional stratigraphy includes a basement of Late Proterozoic to Late Paleozoic metamorphic and sedimentary rocks. Basement rocks are overlain by a thick pile of Miocene volcanic and lesser sedimentary rocks of the SWNVF, ranging in age from ~15-7.5 Ma (Figure 2). The pre-Tertiary rocks exhibit large-scale folding and thrust faulting, having been subjected to compressional deformation associated with multiple pre-Tertiary orogenic events. The stratigraphy of the SWNVF is dominated by ash flow tuff sheets erupted from a cluster of nested calderas known as the Timber Mountain Caldera Complex. The southwestern edge of the caldera complex lies approximately eight kilometres northeast of the MLP, and ten kilometres east of the NBP (Figure 2). The stratigraphy of the SWNVF includes voluminous ash flow tuff sheets, smaller volume lava flows, shallow intrusive bodies, and lesser sedimentary rocks. Many of the volcanic units exposed around NBP-MLP include ash flow tuffs that originated from the caldera complex. Other volcanic units are locally sourced outside of the caldera complex, particularly at the NBP.
The Bullfrog and Fluorspar Hills comprise a somewhat isolated structural domain within the Walker Lane, where both pre-Tertiary and Miocene rocks have been subjected to large-scale, W- to WNW-directed, syn-volcanic extension (i.e. down-to-the-west normal faulting and east-tilting of stratigraphy). Extensional faulting was coincident with magmatism and volcanic activity between ~15-9.4 Ma. Hydrothermal alteration and gold mineralization were also episodic through this time period. If present, through-going right-lateral faults of the Walker Lane are poorly exposed in the SWNVF. One possible example of a NW-trending, through-going Walker Lane structure cuts through the historic Silicon and Thompson mine areas to the northeast of the MLP (Figure 2). Despite the dominance of caldera volcanism in the region, little or no mineralization is associated with any caldera ring fracture system. Rather, mineralization is typically associated with extensional faults outside of the caldera complex.
Extension is accommodated by the Bullfrog Hills Fault System (BHFS); a complex group of kinematically linked faults that facilitate WNW-directed extension and east-tilted block rotation. The primary structure of the BHFS is the Southern Bullfrog Hills Fault (SBHF). The SBHF is an east-west-trending, north-dipping, district-scale, low-angle detachment fault. West of Beatty, in the main Bullfrog district, the SBHF separates Proterozoic metamorphic rocks in the footwall from weakly metamorphosed Paleozoic sedimentary and Tertiary volcanic rocks in the hanging wall. East of Beatty, in the Bare Mountain sub-district, the same fault is called the Fluorspar Canyon Fault (“FCF”, Figure 2). The FCF cuts up-section from west to east such that in Fluorspar Canyon it separates Paleozoic sedimentary rocks (footwall) from brittle Tertiary volcanic rocks (hanging-wall). The FCF continues to cut up-section to the east until it eventually separates brittle Tertiary rocks (footwall) from brittle Tertiary rocks (hanging-wall) at Mother Lode. The magnitude of displacement along the SBHF-FCF appears to decrease from west to east across the greater Bullfrog district. The northward dip of the SBHF-FCF generally increases from west to east including: ~20o north at the Bullfrog mine, 25-30o north in lower Fluorspar Canyon, 45o north at the Secret Pass mine, and 55-65o northwest at Mother Lode.
Secondary structures of the BHFS include large-displacement, NNW- to NNE-trending, moderately to steeply west-dipping, down-to-the-west, normal faults. These faults accommodate the east-tilting of the Tertiary units throughout the Bullfrog and Fluorspar Hills. Hydrothermal alteration and gold mineralization are often spatially associated with these large-displacement faults. Such faults are expected to have listric shapes at depth. The MP fault, which hosts the Bullfrog vein at the Bullfrog mine, is an example of a listric fault. Another example is the Contact Fault, which truncates the north side of the Montgomery-Shoshone deposit. The Contact fault also hosts low-grade mineralization under Rhyolite Valley. The Road Fault at the NBP is the northern continuation of the Contact Fault. Such faults are interpreted to sole into the SBHF-FCF detachment fault at depth.
Figure 2 Regional Geology of the Greater Bullfrog District
The long period of syn-volcanic extension in the western SWNVF between ~15-9.4 Ma (depending on location) includes at least two periods of accelerated extension documented in the Bullfrog and Fluorspar Hills. Regional work has identified a major period of extension between ~12.7 Ma and 11.6 Ma culminating with the eruption of the Timber Mountain Group ash-flows between 11.6 and 11.45 Ma. Evidence for this period of extension lies west of Mother Lode where the 12.7 Ma Tiva Canyon Tuff is tilted up to 45o east, but the nearby 11.6 Ma Rainier Mesa Tuff is essentially horizontal. Block rotation of up to 45o is documented between 12.7 and 11.6 Ma in the Fluorspar Hills. Mineralization at Mother Lode is coincident with the onset of this period of accelerated extension. Regional work postulates a second period of accelerated extension between 11.4 Ma and 10.5 Ma, which resulted in major block rotation, rapid erosion and the deposition of the Rainbow Mountain Debris Flow Sequence. In the Mayflower area, the base of the Rainbow Mountain Debris Flow Sequence is tilted as much as 55o east, whereas the top of the sequence is tilted only 25o east. Block rotation of up to 30o is documented in this area while the Mayflower basin was filling with debris. In the southern Bullfrog Hills east of Rainbow Mountain, the 11.45 Ma Ammonia Tanks tuff is tilted as much as 70o east, whereas the base of the overlying Rainbow Mountain sequence is tilted only 35o east. The block rotation of 35o is documented in this area between 11.4 and 10.5 Ma. Extensional faulting continued through ~9.5 Ma, with an additional 25o of eastward rotation of the Rainbow Mountain Sequence. Extensional faulting ceased in the Bullfrog Hills prior to the eruption of the relatively flat-lying 9.4 Ma Pahute Mesa Tuff. The 10 Ma age of Bullfrog and Mayflower mineralization and the 9.5-10.2 Ma age of the Eastern Steam-heated Zone at NBP coincide with the culmination of extensional tectonism in the Bullfrog Hills.
Extensional faulting in the Bullfrog and Fluorspar Hills created fault-bounded sedimentary basins which filled with basement- and volcanic-derived sediments (e.g. the Sedimentary Rocks of Joshua Hollow, the Jolly Jane Formation, and the Rainbow Mountain Debris Flow Sequence). During younger periods of extension, older normal faults in the hanging-walls of large-displacement listric faults may have experienced significant reactivation and subsequent eastward rotation, such that they may exhibit relative reverse displacement.
MLP Geology
The stratigraphy of the Fluorspar Hills has been described in pamphlets that accompany published geologic maps. The local stratigraphy at MLP has been refined by Corvus based on pit mapping and exploration drilling. Brief descriptions of units present in the MLP area are given in the following descriptions. Figure 3 is a simplified geologic map of the Mother Lode deposit area.
Due to the position of the main claim block, surface exposures of Paleozoic sedimentary rocks are limited at the MLP (Figure 3). The Paleozoic rocks encountered in drilling are differentiated only by lithofacies. The lithofacies-based units are informally correlated to major Paleozoic units, and interpreted as separated by thrust faults. The most abundant lithology is a thick sequence of light to medium grey massive dolomite (Psd), which correlates with the Silurian Lone Mountain Dolomite. Overlying the dolomite in drill holes and in outcrop south of the Mother Lode pit is a heterogeneous siliciclastic sequence (Psq) dominated by quartzite with lesser dolomitic quartz sandstone, sandy dolomite, and sandy limestone. The Psq sequence is interpreted to be a highly attenuated, dismembered thrust slice including Eureka Quartzite, Antelope Valley Limestone and possibly other Ordovician through Devonian lithologies. The Psq unit structurally overlies Psd along a thrust fault identified herein as the SNA thrust fault (Figure 3). Overlying the Psq sequence is another dismembered sequence dominated by black siliceous graphitic argillite with lesser dark grey limestone and dolomite (Pss). Lithologies of the Pss sequence resemble Mississippian and Devonian lithologies exposed in the Joshua Hollow area south of Mother Lode. The Pss sequence is interpreted to be a dismembered thrust slice overlying Psq along a second thrust fault identified herein as the Joshua thrust.
Despite variations in thickness, the Paleozoic stratigraphy described above is recognized consistently in reverse circulation drill holes at Mother Lode. The SNA thrust places older Ordovician(?) rocks over younger Silurian rocks. The Joshua thrust places younger Devonian and Mississippian(?) rocks over older Ordovician(?) rocks. Both thrust faults appear to dip moderately to gently east. Paleozoic sedimentary rocks, primarily Psd, host 18% of the samples >0.2 g/t gold in the Mother Lode assay database.
The age of the platy, silty carbonate rocks in the southeast corner of the Mother Lode pit has been the subject of much debate by previous workers. The well-indurated and variably folded nature of the platy rocks suggests they are older pre-Tertiary rocks. Based on Corvus drilling, the platy rocks overlie Tertiary volcaniclastic and conglomeratic sediments. The current interpretation is that these platy rocks are indeed Tertiary in age and are assigned to the Sedimentary Rocks of Joshua Hollow. If the platy rocks can be determined through micro-fossil work to be pre-Tertiary, then this exposure would be interpreted as a gravity slide block of older Paleozoic rocks shed into the SRJH basin.
The Sedimentary Rocks of Joshua Hollow (SRJH) comprise a heterogeneous sedimentary sequence subdivided into five lithofacies units including: 1) older tuffaceous sediments (Tjs1); 2) conglomerate (Tjc); 3) volcaniclastic sandstone (Tjvs); 4) grey welded tuff (Tjt); and 5) fine-grained carbonaceous sediments (Tjs). The stratigraphic order is generally ascending, but the subunits typically inter-finger with each other laterally and are locally repeated vertically. There is substantial lithologic variability in the SRJH between drill holes. The SRJH are collectively up to 150 metres thick in the Mother Lode area. Tjvs and Tjs comprise the bulk of the SRJH sequence, and are the only sub-units exposed in the Mother Lode pit. Tjc, Tjvs and Tjs comprise a generally fining-upward sequence deposited in a local Tertiary basin marginal to the ancestral Bare Mountain structural high. The SRJH were originally named for sparse recessive exposures south of Mother Lode in lower Joshua Hollow. The age of the SRJH is unknown, but pre-dates the 14 Ma quartz-porphyry rhyolite dike swarm of eastern Bare Mountain. The SRJH are considered time-stratigraphic equivalents of the Tr1 sediments in the southern Bullfrog Hills (>14 Ma). It is possible that the lower SRJH includes sediments as old as Oligocene. All subunits of the SRJH are known to be mineralized at Mother Lode. The SRJH hosts 40% of the samples >0.2 g/t gold in the Mother Lode assay database.
The basal sedimentary sequence includes variegated pink, light green and light brown tuffaceous siltstone, fine tuffaceous sandstone, and tuffaceous-conglomeratic sandstone. When present, Tjs1 lies unconformably on Paleozoic rocks along the basal Tertiary unconformity. Thickness varies from 0-30 metres in drill holes, suggesting the unit was deposited on an erosional unconformity of significant relief or may have been subjected to erosion. Tjs1 is not known to crop out anywhere in the Mother Lode area. Tjs1 is distinctive from the overlying Tjvs and Tjs sub-units, suggesting that it was derived from a different provenance area. Tjs1 may be, in part, a time-stratigraphic equivalent of the Oligocene Titus Canyon Formation recognized elsewhere in the Bullfrog district.
Figure 3 - Simplified Geologic Map of the Mother Lode Area
Overlying and interbedded with Tjs1 is a distinctive siliceous to locally calcareous conglomerate unit. The unit includes fine to coarse angular lithic gritstone, gritty pebble conglomerate and coarse pebble to cobble conglomerate. Tjc contains clasts of a variety of Paleozoic sedimentary lithologies including chert, quartzite, dolomite, limestone, sandstone and siltstone. Tjc also contains clasts of Mesozoic (?) granitoid rocks, Tjs1 lithologies, and minor Tertiary volcanic rocks. Where Tjs1 is absent, Tjc conglomerate lies directly on Paleozoic rocks along the basal Tertiary unconformity. Tjc often contains conspicuous rounded, broken, deformed and healed Paleozoic clasts that resemble those found in conglomerates mapped as Titus Canyon Formation elsewhere in the Bullfrog district. Tjc varies in thickness from 0-30 metres, apparently being deposited in channels along an unconformity of significant relief. Because of their inter-fingering nature, Tjc and Tjs1 have been lumped together as a single unit for the purpose of geologic modeling. The combined Tjc-Tjs1 units host 5% of the samples >0.2 g/t gold in the Mother Lode assay database.
Overlying and locally interbedded with Tjc are intervals of fine to coarse, bedded to non-bedded, calcareous and siliceous volcaniclastic sandstone. Tjvs sandstone typically exhibits an equigranular salt and pepper texture as a result of detrital grains of white feldspar, black biotite, minor grey quartz, and small black carbonaceous lithic fragments. Highly irregular rip-up clasts of carbonaceous Tjs up to 20 centimetres are common within the volcaniclastic sandstones. The drilled thickness of individual sandstone intervals varies from <1 to >30 metres. Volcaniclastic sandstone is interpreted as channel-filling debris derived predominantly from Tertiary volcanic rocks. Tjvs is well-mineralized where it exhibits the light grey color of strong illite-pyrite alteration. Tjvs hosts 18% of the samples >0.2 g/t gold in the Mother Lode assay database.
A distinctive light grey welded tuff subunit has been recognized in a few of the northeastern-most drill holes. The tuff is similar in color and composition to the volcaniclastic sandstone but exhibits a welding fabric defined by white flattened pumice clasts. The tuff subunit varies in drilled thickness from 10 to 30 metres. It generally occurs in the lower portion of the SRJH and is expected to thicken to the northeast in future drilling. Tjt is mineralized in every hole that it has been recognized. Tjt may prove to be a significant mineralized marker unit in future drilling. The grey welded tuff currently hosts <1% of the samples >0.2 g/t gold in the Mother Lode assay database.
Fine grained carbonaceous sediments comprise the bulk of the upper portion of the SRJH. Lithofacies include variably carbonaceous, mostly calcareous to locally siliceous, laminated mudstone and siltstone, massive or flaser-bedded water-lain tuff, and variably argillaceous laminated lacustrine limestone (i.e. marl). Carbonaceous sediments are commonly interbedded with lenses of Tjvs volcaniclastic sandstone. The drilled thickness of individual intervals of Tjs varies from 10-50 metres within the SRJH. Some of the highest grades in the Mother Lode deposit are hosted in Tjs carbonaceous sediments. Tjs hosts 17% of the samples >0.2 g/t gold in the Mother Lode assay database.
The Lithic Ridge Tuff is recognized by Corvus geologists as a distinct stratigraphic unit in drill holes and on the north high-wall of the Mother Lode pit. The tuff had been erroneously logged by previous operators as a xenolith-rich porphyritic dacite intrusive phase. The Lithic Ridge Tuff consists of poorly to moderately welded, generally lithic-rich, quartz-biotite-feldspar-bearing ash-flow tuff. Lithic content varies from <5 to 20+%, including common green altered porphyritic dacite clasts and a variety of Paleozoic clasts. The Lithic Ridge Tuff overlies the upper beds of the SRJH along an irregular mixed contact zone, suggesting a significant volume of SRJH soft sediments were ripped-up into the base of Tlr as it was being deposited. The Lithic Ridge Tuff is a well-known regional ash-flow unit of the SWNVF dated at 14 Ma Tlr is ubiquitously hydrothermally altered, sulphidized and locally mineralized in the Mother Lode deposit area. Tlr hosts 4% of the samples >0.2 g/t gold in the Mother Lode assay database.
Rhyolite porphyry dikes in the Mother Lode area are part of a NNE-trending, west-dipping swarm of hydrothermally altered dikes that intrude pre-Tertiary rocks for over 14 kilometres along the eastern flank of Bare Mountain. The dikes at Mother Lode comprise the northernmost exposures of the dike swarm, and the only exposures known to intrude Tertiary rocks. The dikes form somewhat tabular to highly irregular, discontinuous bodies in both the hanging wall and footwall of the Fluorspar Canyon Fault. Where relatively unaltered, the rhyolite has an aphanitic to granophyric groundmass with phenocrysts of quartz, plagioclase, sanidine, biotite and minor hornblende. Quartz, biotite and plagioclase phenocrysts >5 mm are common. Where intensely altered and mineralized, the groundmass is replaced by a mixture of illite-smectite. Mafic minerals are progressively altered to chlorite and replaced by pyrite in mineralized rhyolite. Feldspars are altered to calcite, illite, or adularia. Rhyolite porphyry dikes have yielded age dates ranging from 14.4 to 13.8 Ma with an accepted average age of ~14 Ma. An interpretation from new drilling at Mother Lode is that rhyolite dikes intrude the Lithic Ridge Tuff and may have formed a local lava flow overlying the Lithic Ridge Tuff. Dike emplacement and the eruption of the Lithic Ridge Tuff are closely related to magmatic activity at ~14 Ma. Tip is the dominant host lithology at Mother Lode, hosting 33% of the samples >0.2 g/t gold in the assay database.
A second sedimentary sequence has been recognized overlying the Lithic Ridge Tuff. The unit includes limonitic to carbonaceous, siliceous to calcareous, fine volcaniclastic sandstone and siltstone similar to Tjs and Tjvs. North of the Mother Lode pit, the Tys unit varies in thickness from 0 to 10 metres and increases to a maximum known thickness of 70 metres in ML 18-072 west of the pit. Tys is lumped in with Tlr in the geologic model. Tys is not known to be mineralized at Mother Lode.
The regionally extensive Crater Flat Group has been described to include the Tram Tuff (Tct) and Bullfrog Tuff (Tcb) members crop out to the northeast of Mother Lode and in Fluorspar Canyon. Neither tuff has been identified in-situ in the Mother Lode drilling area. The tuffs are similar in texture and composition, both being moderately crystal-rich welded tuffs that exhibit ubiquitous hydrothermal alteration. The younger Bullfrog Tuff has been dated at 13.25 Ma. The Bullfrog Tuff is the primary host unit at the Secret Pass Deposit.
In the Fluorspar Hills, the Paintbrush Group is comprised of two members: the 12.8 Ma Topopah Springs Tuff (Tpt), and 12.7 Ma Tiva Canyon Tuff (Tpc). The Paintbrush tuffs are typically reddish brown, aphanitic, phenocryst-poor and densely welded. Paintbrush tuffs are distinctly shard-rich and phenocryst-poor compared to other major ash flow tuffs of the SWNVF. The Paintbrush Group has an exposed thickness of nearly 600 metres north of the Secret Pass Deposit but is not recognized in the Mother Lode area. The contact between the underlying Bullfrog Tuff and basal vitrophyre of the Topopah Springs Tuff is well-exposed on the north high-wall of the Secret Pass Pit.
A substantial thickness of heterolithic debris flow breccia (Toxh) overlies the Tiva Canyon Tuff ~1.5 kilometres west of the Mother Lode deposit. Such breccias in the Mother Lode area are mapped as Tox (i.e. older breccia). The Tox unit is analogous to younger post-Rainier Mesa debris flow breccia deposits of the Rainbow Mountain Sequence at NBP. Tox is predominantly heterolithic but may locally contain monolithic breccias (Toxm) of rhyolite porphyry, SRJH, Lithic Ridge Tuff, or Crater Flat Group tuffs. Heterolithic debris flow breccias are generally non-bedded, very poorly sorted, and contain sand- to large boulder-size clasts of all older units. Tox exists only in the hanging wall of the FCF, where it unconformably overlies Tp, Tip, Tlr, Tys and SRJH. Tox is interpreted to have been deposited on an angular erosional unconformity of significant relief. Up to 150 metres of Toxh has been penetrated in the hanging-wall of the Fluorspar Canyon Fault west of the Mother Lode pit. Tox is interpreted as mass-wasted scarp breccias and alluvial fan deposits that have been shed off fault scarps, including the FCF, during the period of accelerated extension between 12.7-11.6 Ma. Based on stratigraphic relations, Tox is considered a post-mineral unit at Mother Lode (post-12.7 Ma), but it is also known to contain gold. The distribution of oxide gold mineralization in Tox suggests that the mineralization is detrital in nature, having been mass-wasted off the mineralized footwall of the FCF. Tox hosts 2% of the samples >0.2 g/t gold in the assay database.
The lower part of the Timber Mountain Group includes rhyolitic tuffs and lava flows that are known as the Pre-Timber Mountain tuffs (Tprt) and lavas (Tprr) respectively. These units are undated but occupy the stratigraphic position between the Paintbrush Group (or Tox, if present) and the large volume Timber Mountain tuffs. Tprt consists of light-colored, non-welded to bedded, lapilli rich, pumaceous lithic-rich crystal tuff. Tprt is up to 150 metres thick in the Mother Lode drilling area. Tprt appears to blanket paleo-topography cut on the Toxh debris flow sequence. Tprt was deposited during or just after the period of accelerated extensional tectonism associated with the deposition of Tox. Tprt is not known to be mineralized at Mother Lode but exhibits ubiquitous steam-heated alteration north and west of the deposit.
Tprt represents pyroclastic deposits associated with Tprr rhyolite volcanism. Tprr consists of aphanitic to fine porphyritic, massive to flow-banded, rhyolite lava flows (i.e. flow-dome complexes) at the Twisted Canyon and Sawtooth areas of MLP and at the Spicerite target areas at NBP. The rhyolite varies in appearance from relatively fresh, grey to black, glassy perlite or obsidian, to tan to pale green strongly devitrified zeolitic rhyolite. Tprr is not present in the Mother Lode area.
Regionally there are two large-volume ash flow sheets that comprise bulk of the Timber Mountain Group. These include the 11.6 Ma Rainier Mesa Tuff (Tmr) and 11.45 Ma Ammonia Tanks Tuff (Tma). The Timber Mountain tuffs are typically densely welded, crystal-rich ashflow tuffs, with 15-20+% phenocrysts of quartz, feldspar and biotite. The units can be distinguished from each other by the presence of sphene and bluish chatoyant sanidine phenocrysts in the Ammonia Tanks Tuff. In the Mother Lode area, the Rainier Mesa Tuff directly overlies steam-heated Tprt. The Rainier Mesa Tuff may overlie Tprr or Tp elsewhere in the district. The Rainier Mesa Tuff is sub-horizontal, relatively unaltered, and entirely post-mineral in the Mother Lode area. The Ammonia Tanks Tuff is recognized only at the Sawtooth target area.
Older unconsolidated gravel deposits of late-Miocene to Pliocene age occur at the Willy’s target area along the eastern rangefront area of Bare Mountain, and at the Twisted Canyon and Baileys Gap target areas on the east side of Oasis Valley (see Figure 2). The gravels form sub-horizontal terraces that are commonly, deeply incised. Underlying older rocks are often poorly exposed in the bottoms of incised ravines below the terrace gravels. The older gravels at the MLP are correlated to the Gravels of Sober-up Gulch on the west side of Oasis Valley at NBP. The thickness of Tgs is highly variable, but not expected to exceed 100 metres. An 8.2 Ma age for a tuff unit within the Gravels of Sober-up Gulch east of Bare Mountain has been reported.
The Mother Lode deposit is largely covered with unconsolidated Quaternary gravels. Quaternary gravels range in thickness from 1-20 metres in the Mother Lode drilling area. The Quaternary gravels are variably caliche-cemented and form stable vertical walls in the Mother Lode pit.
NBP Geology
The NBP is within the Walker Lane structural province and the Southwestern Nevada Volcanic Field (“SWNVF”). The Project lies approximately ten kilometres west of the western margin of the middle Miocene Timber Mountain caldera complex of the SWNVF and many of the volcanic units exposed on the NBP originated from the caldera complex. However, it appears that many of the most important host rocks to the mineralization are locally derived from what is now known as the NBH Volcanic Complex (“NBVC”) and are slightly older than the main ash flows erupted from the Timber Mountain Caldera. The region is underlain by Paleozoic sedimentary rocks which are the basement for the mid-Miocene tuffs and related rocks that are the hosts for most of the mineralization in the Bullfrog mining district. The region was subjected to extensional faulting which was contemporaneous with volcanism and localized sedimentary basins filled with reworked volcanic and basement debris developed as a result. Multiple episodes of extension have been documented. Most of the major fault zones have northerly strikes with normal displacement to the west. However, hanging wall antithetic faults are also present. Some of the major faults are interpreted to have listric shapes, similar to the main mineralizing fault at the Bullfrog mine, and likely sole into a district-scale detachment fault at depth. During younger periods of extension many of the older faults in the hanging walls of these listric structures have experienced significant rotation. Figure 4 is a geologic map of NBP showing target exploration and resource areas:
The NBH is underlain by pre-Tertiary basement rocks consisting of Precambrian to Cambrian sedimentary rocks of the Wood Canyon, Zabriskie and Carrara Formations. The basement rocks are exposed on the property in two prominent erosional windows. The pre-Tertiary windows are remnants of a basement structural high of significant relief upon which the Tertiary rocks were deposited. The basement rocks are overlain by a sequence of Miocene volcanic and lesser sedimentary rocks of the SWNVF.
The lowermost Tertiary rocks are known as the Jolly Jane Formation and consist of a basal conglomerate overlain by a sequence of heterogeneous sedimentary rocks including mudstone, siltstone and sandstone. The basal conglomerate is a time transgressive surface lag deposit which generally contains abundant clasts of pre-Tertiary basement rocks. The type locality for this unit is known from drilling in the Jolly Jane area and consists of up to 50 metres of heterogeneous sediments which appear to have been accumulated in a structural basin prior to and during the onset of volcanism. Sandstone, silt, shale and calcareous sediments are present with both black organic-rich and hematitic intervals also present. It is common to see tuffaceous sediments in the upper portions of the sand and shale sequences. The thickness and composition of the Jolly Jane Formation is highly variable, and is interpreted to have been deposited on a Tertiary erosional unconformity of significant relief.
The Jolly Jane Formation is overlain by the Savage Formation which consists of locally-sourced lava domes, flows and associated intrusive rocks of dacitic to rhyolitic composition. The Savage Formation also includes intercalated volcaniclastic intervals (re-worked dacite) and locally carbonaceous sediments. It is rather heterogeneous in terms of the thickness and the areal distribution of individual domes, flows and epiclastic intervals. The Savage Formation is only locally mineralized.
The Pioneer Formation rhyolitic pyroclastics overlie the Savage Formation dacites. The Pioneer Formation ranges from 10 to more than 200 metres in thickness and consists of monotonous lithic lapilli tuffs. In the northern parts of the NBP these tuffs are mixed with rhyolite domes of uncertain origin, however, dating shows that the tuffs and rhyolites are essentially the same age. Epiclastic sediments found at the top of the Pioneer Formation suggest that an angular unconformity is developed between this sequence and the overlying Sierra Blanca Tuff. The Pioneer Formation is extensively altered and hosts a large portion of the disseminated gold mineralization.
The Sierra Blanca Tuff is a large rhyolitic ash flow tuff that blankets the NBP. Unlike the preceding units, which appear to have been locally derived, the Sierra Blanca Tuff probably represents a regional ash flow eruption that came from outside the NBP. The Sierra Blanca Tuff varies in thickness from <70 metres at Jolly Jane to >160 metres at North Sierra Blanca. The tuff consists of a single cooling unit and is densely welded. The densely welded nature makes the rock brittle and, as a consequence, it is the most important host for both disseminated and vein style mineralization at the NBP.
Following the deposition of the Sierra Blanca Tuff, local volcanism continued with the deposition of the Savage Dacite, another locally-sourced sequence of lava domes, flows, pyroclastics and epiclastics of primarily dacitic composition. The Savage Dacite varies greatly in both thickness and composition, characterized by alternating eruptive cycles of geochemically different dacitic magmas. The Savage Dacite is only mineralized where it is in contact with significant fault structures.
Zircon dating shows that the entire sequence from Pioneer Formation through the Savage Dacite was deposited between 16.1Ma and 14.4Ma, making it among the oldest volcanic in the region.
Figure 4: Geologic Map of NBP Showing Target and Resource Areas and Legend of Geologic Symbols
The 13.5Ma Crater Flat Tuff, which consists of two regionally extensive ash flow cooling units, appears to overlie the Savage Dacite at both Savage Valley and Jolly Jane but the contact is not exposed at the surface. The Crater Flat Tuffs are extensively altered at both YellowJacket and Jolly Jane but no significant mineralization has yet been identified in these units.
The Rainbow Mountain Sequence is the most heterogeneous unit of the NBH. It consists of intercalated sequences of heterolithic and monolithic sedimentary debris flow breccias, large slide bocks derived from local volcanic and sedimentary units, as well as rhyolitic ash flows and rhyolite domes. The debris flow breccias are bedded but poorly sorted, consisting of sand - to large boulder-size clasts of predominantly volcanic rocks. Both gravity sliding and fluvial processes appear to have played a role in deposition. The volcanic debris is derived from many of the SWNVF units that are preserved as tabular ash flow tuff sheets elsewhere in the Bullfrog Hills. These include the Crater Flat Group, the Paintbrush Group and the Timber Mountain Group tuffs. The debris flow breccia deposits are largely the result of the re-working of the SWNVF units via gravity sliding and alluvial fan development around fault-bounded basement structural highs. The Debris Flow Breccia sequence represents a period of dynamic extensional faulting, scarp development and mass wasting. Massive, relatively intact blocks of monolithic breccias are interpreted as landslide megabreccia deposits that were shed off local fault scarps. Gold mineralization at Mayflower and Connection is hosted in the Rainbow Mountain Sequence. The thickness of this unit exceeds 300 metres in the Mayflower area.
Mineralization
MLP Mineralization
Mother Lode is characterized as a sediment, intrusive, and locally volcanic-hosted disseminated gold deposit. Mineralization most closely resembles Carlin-type sediment-hosted gold deposits of north-central Nevada. There is similarity to Carlin-type deposits and evidence for a large buried porphyry-type magmatic system associated with the rhyolite dike swarm at eastern Bare Mountain. The Mother Lode deposit formed at ~12.7 Ma, which is much younger than the typical ~40 Ma age in north-central Nevada. The nature of mineralization is rather passive and with very low introduction of secondary silica, suggesting it may have formed at a shallower depth and at lower temperature than typical Carlin-type deposits. Mineralization exhibits geochemical associations between Au and As-Sb-Hg-Tl-Te-Bi-F, with very low Ag and base metals.
The Mother Lode deposit model consists of structurally and stratigraphically-controlled disseminated gold mineralization hosted primarily in rhyolite porphyry dikes (Tip) and the Sedimentary Rocks of Joshua Hollow (SRJH). Lesser volume hosts include Paleozoic sedimentary rocks (Psd and Psq), Tertiary volcanic rocks (Tlr), and debris flow breccias (Tox). Mineralization in Tip, SRJH and Tlr is mostly sulphide, but may be oxidized depending on depth. Mineralization in Psd, Psq and Tox is mostly oxide. The current interpretation is that oxide mineralization in Tox is detrital, with mineralized rock having been mass-wasted as scarp breccias into the hanging-wall of the FCF. Paleozoic rocks are most commonly mineralized in proximity to dike margins but are also mineralized along subtle non-dike-filled structures and as pseudo-stratiform jasperoid bodies.
The primary structural control feeding mineralization at Mother Lode is a series of north-trending, 50-70o west-dipping rhyolite dike-filled structures. Mineralization is both semi-tabular and highly irregular as fluids ascended along dike-filled structures in the underlying Paleozoic rocks, through the Tertiary unconformity, and expanded upward into the Tertiary section. Mineralizing fluids appear to have bled out laterally away from mineralized dikes into favorable permeable lithologies and secondary structures, including the FCF. Deeper drilling has extended the deposit to the west, where it appears that the FCF plays a significant role as a high-grade structural feeder (Figure 3). The potential for additional mineralized dikes in the vicinity of the FCF at depth to the west below current drilling is a highly attractive target.
Rhyolite dikes along the entire Bare Mountain swarm were subjected to high-temperature, sanidine- and biotite-stable alteration shortly after emplacement. At Mother Lode, biotite-stable alteration was followed by a lower temperature pervasive illite-smectite-pyrite event that affected both the dikes and surrounding wall rocks. The illite-smectite-pyrite event penetrates well up into the Lithic Ridge Tuff, forming a large sulphidation halo around the gold mineralization. Illite-smectite-pyrite alteration typically exhibits strongly elevated As, Sb and Tl, and may be well-mineralized or only anomalous in gold. The evidence suggests an early relatively barren illite-pyrite event is followed by an overprinting main stage Au-Te sulphidation event.
Trace element geochemistry associated with gold mineralization in drill hole samples includes: As (max 9262 ppm), Sb (max 1429 ppm), Te (max 16 ppm), Tl (max 17 ppm), Hg (max 30 ppm) and Bi (max 25 ppm). The elements with the strongest correlation to gold are tellurium and arsenic. Base metals are very low at Mother Lode. Elevated base metal values are largely associated with basement rocks. The presence of fluorite veining and a strong association between gold and fluorine has been reported at Mother Lode. Fluorine is not included in the multi-element analysis used by Corvus, but fluorite has been identified in the Mother Lode pit. Petrographic studies on sulphide concentrates from drill holes at Mother Lode identified growth zones in pyrite grains exhibiting concentrations of arsenic. It has been concluded that the Mother Lode deposit formed at a depth of 500-1000 metres or less, from gold-bearing fluids with temperatures between 200-240oC. High-grade gold appears to be associated with remobilized carbon, particularly in Tjs and Tjvs in the upper portion of the deposit. Remobilized carbon appears to have accumulated in a blanket-like zone above the upper reaches of the rhyolite dikes.
Jasperoid in Paleozoic rocks appears to have both structural and stratigraphic control. Jasperoid intervals in drill holes commonly contain significant Ag values up to 100 ppm. The average Ag/Au ratio from jasperoid samples is 15:1. The average Ag/Au ratio in non-jasperoid Tertiary rock-hosted samples is <0.5:1. Jasperoid mineralization in Paleozoic rocks may be a separate mineralizing event that predates the main Mother Lode gold system. Jasperoid is typically oxidized and yields high cyanide shake leach recoveries.
NBP Mineralization
All of the mineralization at NBP can be classified as low-sulphidation epithermal mineralization. There are at least two and possibly three distinct periods of mineralization present. Older mineralization, before 11.2 Ma, is observed at the Sierra Blanca and Jolly Jane mineral resource areas. A younger mineralization, 10 Ma, occurs at the Mayflower mineral resource area.
In both mineralization periods, there are two styles of low suphidation gold/silver mineralization; (1) high-grade, fault controlled fissure veins, vein breccias and stockworks (Mayflower, Liberator, YellowJacket, Liberty and others), and (2) low-grade disseminated replacement deposits (Sierra Blanca, Jolly Jane and Mayflower). The low-grade, disseminated mineralization is currently the more abundant type at NBP.
1)Sierra Blanca Mineralization
Mineralization at Sierra Blanca can be classified into six different styles:
• Disseminated gold mineralization associated with pervasive silica adularia and sulphidation of iron (ubiquitous at Sierra Blanca );
• Gold associated with fault controlled suphidation (NE30, NE50, NE60 Faults);
• Gold associated with quartz veining;
• Continuous quartz vein and associated stockworks (Josh vein at YellowJacket);
• Localized quartz veins and stockworks (numerous zones); or
• Sulphide veining with gold and tellurium mineralization (Air Track Hill).
Pervasive disseminated mineralization occurs in the Pioneer Formation and Sierra Blanca Tuff over virtually the entire area at Sierra Blanca at 0.2-0.3 g/t gold grade. Oxidation of this mineralization extends locally to 200 metres and is associated with good cyanide leach metallurgical recovery. Fault hosted mineralization has been encountered in numerous locations (NS10, E30, NE40, NE50, NE60 and Savage Faults) with consistently higher gold grade (1-17 g/t) than the disseminated mineralization. Where oxidized, the fault zones respond well to cyanide leaching.
Quartz vein and stockwork mineralization occurs primarily in the YellowJacket deposit, a generally NW striking structural corridor along the eastern side of Sierra Blanca. The gold-bearing quartz vein and stockwork zones are generally gray translucent quartz with native gold and electrum, and varying amounts of acanthite or other silver sulphosalts. Metallurgical testing indicates the potential for high gold and silver recovery with cyanide leaching, both above and below the oxidation horizon.
The pervasive disseminated mineralization at Sierra Blanca and the Josh vein and stockwork mineralization at YellowJacket comprise approximately 84% of the gold resource at NBP.
2)Jolly Jane Mineralization
Jolly Jane is located in the middle of NBP and virtually all of the geological elements common to NBP are found there. Disseminated mineralization occurs within the Sierra Blanc Tuff, which is thinner, approximately 70 metres as compared to a thickness of >160 metres at Sierra Blanca. The mineralized Sierra Blanca Tuff is preserved a horst between the West Jolly Jane Fault and the East Jolly Jane Fault. Gold grade is similar to Sierra Blanca disseminated mineralization with slightly lower cyanide leach recovery.
3)Mayflower Mineralization
Younger, fracture controlled deposits at Mayflower and Pioneer were historically mined. The Mayflower Mine developed on a calcite vein and stockwork zone along a NW striking, steeply SW-dipping fault zone in silica-adularia-altered heterolithioc debris flow breccia in the Rainbow Mountain Sequence. Multiple high-grade gold areas have been identified, surrounded by low-grade mineralization. Mayflower mineralization is typically 0. 4-0.5 g/t and is well oxidized with good cyanide leach recovery.
Historical Exploration Work
The Bullfrog district is informally divided into three subdistricts: 1) Main Bullfrog {west of Beatty NV, along the Southern Bullfrog Hills Fault [SBHF] in Figure 2}; 2) North Bullfrog {west Oasis Valley in the northern Bullfrog Hills in Figure 2}; and 3) Bare Mountain {east of Beatty NV along the Fluorspar Canyon Fault [FCF] in Figure 2}. Figure 2 shows the modern (red) producing mines and the general areas of the subdistricts. Gold was first discovered in the main Bullfrog district by Frank “Shorty” Harris and Ernest Cross on August 9, 1904 at the location of the Original Bullfrog mine. The discovery sparked a rush of prospectors and within a few weeks the district was staked “for nine miles in all directions from the sagebrush flats, including part of the desert to the tip of every summit in sight”. District production is estimated at 111,805 ounces of gold and 868,749 ounces of silver between 1905 and 1921. The Montgomery-Shoshone mine was the most important mine in the district, operating between 1907 and 1910. A number of other small mines in the Main Bullfrog and North Bullfrog subdistricts contributed to the total reported production.
The Bare Mountain subdistrict is also known historically as the Fluorine district. Gold was first discovered on the east side of Bare Mountain in 1905 as prospectors flocked to the Beatty area after the discovery at Original Bullfrog mine. Gold was first discovered in Fluorspar Canyon in 1906 near the Daisy shaft. Unreported amounts of gold were produced from a number of small operations around Bare Mountain between 1907 and 1929. Gold prospecting led to the discovery of a number of fluorite vein deposits associated with gold mineralization including the Daisy (or Crowell), Goldspar and Mary mines. Daisy was by far the largest fluorspar mine producing 204,508 tons between 1919 and 1986. Fluorspar Canyon was named because of a number of fluorite occurrences in the Daisy area.
Mercury was discovered in 1908 at the Harvey (also known as the Telluride) mine on the northeast flank of Bare Mountain just one kilometer south-southwest of the Mother Lode deposit. The Harvey mine operated intermittently between 1912 and 1943 producing 72 flasks of mercury. Another mercury occurrence known as the Tip Top mine lies along the Flatiron jasperoid just 800 metres southwest of the Mother Lode deposit. The Tip Top mine has no documented production, but may have produced up to 100 flasks of mercury. The Harvey and Tip Top mines are known to have gold associated with cinnabar, but no reported gold production. Mercury was later discovered at the Thompson mine in 1929. The Thompson mine is located 5 kilometres northeast of Mother Lode, and is reported to have had only minor mercury production.
Ceramic grade high-purity silica was produced at the Silicon mine between 1919 and 1929, located 1.5 kilometres northwest of the Thompson mine.
Modern exploration for precious metals in the main Bullfrog subdistrict began as early as 1982, when geologists from St. Joe Minerals Corporation became interested in the Montgomery-Shoshone area. St. Joe Minerals conducted extensive exploration in the area of the Montgomery-Shoshone and Senator Stewart mines, resulting in the discovery of the Bullfrog vein deposit in 1987. Several company acquisitions resulted in Barrick Gold Corporation (“Barrick”) being the final owner and operator of the mine. The Bullfrog mine produced gold and silver from three deposits including: 1) Bullfrog (open pit and underground); 2) Montgomery-Shoshone (open pit); and 3) Bonanza Mountain (open pit). Between 1989 and 1999, the Bullfrog mine produced 2.31 million ounces (“Moz”) of gold and 3.0 Moz of silver. The Gold Bar open pit mine, located 4 kilometres northeast of the Original Bullfrog mine, produced a small (unreported) amount of gold in the late 1980’s.
Modern exploration for precious metals in the North Bullfrog subdistrict began as early as 1974. There has been no reported modern production from the North Bullfrog subdistrict.
Modern exploration for precious metals in the Bare Mountain subdistrict began in the 1973 when Cordilleran Exploration Company (“Cordex”) staked claims in the Sterling mine area. Between 1973 and 1977, Cordex discovered and delineated bulk-tonnage sediment-hosted gold mineralization at the Sterling mine. In 1978, Cordex leased the Sterling property to Saga Exploration Company (“Saga”). Saga continued to explore the property, and in 1980 formed the Sterling Mine Joint Venture (“SMJV”). The SMJV began producing gold in April 1980.
Cordex explored the Paleozoic sedimentary rocks in Fluorspar Canyon starting in the mid-1970’s, focusing on gold mineralization associated with the fluorite occurrences. In 1979, U.S. Borax Incorporated (“US Borax”) (Pacific Coast Mines) staked the original BVC claims in the Fluorspar Canyon area. U.S. Borax was primarily interested in uranium, but recognized the potential for bulk-tonnage volcanic-hosted disseminated gold mineralization, and discovered the Secret Pass deposit in 1981. In 1985, Cordex entered into a joint venture agreement with U.S. Borax, and by 1989 had earned 100% interest in the U.S. Borax holdings, which would become the core of the Daisy mine property. In 1990-1991, Inter-Rock Gold, Inc. (“Inter-Rock”), through a series of transactions, acquired an option to earn 100% interest in the Daisy mine property, subject to a 25% back-in right to Cordex. Between 1985 and 1994, Cordex was involved in the discovery and delineation of two new sediment-hosted gold deposits at Daisy South and Daisy West, as well as expanding the Secret Pass deposit. In 1994, Inter-Rock had earned 100% interest in the Daisy mine property through the funding of ongoing exploration, and Cordex (now Rayrock Mines Inc. (“Rayrock”)) elected to exercise their back-in rights to hold 25% interest in the property. In 1995, the Mother Lode property was purchased by Rayrock from U.S. Nevada Gold Search Joint Venture (“USNGSJV”) and incorporated into the Daisy mine property. The Daisy mine partnership subsequently consisted of Rayrock as the operator (35%) and Inter-Rock as the majority owner (65%). The Daisy mine partnership began mining the Secret Pass and Daisy West deposits in late 1996 and ceased mining operations in late 1999. Inter-Rock sold all interest in the Daisy mine property back to Rayrock in 1998. Gold production from the Daisy leach pad continued into 2001.
Reported modern production of 351,744 ounces from Bare Mountain subdistrict has come from the following deposits: 1) 212,744 ounces produced at the Sterling mine (open pit and underground) between 1980 and 2015; 2) 104,000 ounces produced from the combined Secret Pass and Daisy West open pit mines between 1996 and 2001; and 3) 35,000 ounces produced from the Mother Lode open pit mine between 1989-1991.
The discovery and production history of the MLP is presented in the section below.
MLP History
In 1983, shortly after U.S. Borax had discovered the Secret Pass deposit, Galli Exploration Associates (“Galli”) which was later spun off as GEXA Gold Corporation (“GEXA”) in 1987, prospected and staked claims in the Mother Lode-Joshua Hollow areas east of Secret Pass. In 1985, Galli drilled 54 shallow holes in the Flatiron jasperoid area along the Fluorspar Canyon Fault. Mineralized intercepts were generally narrow, low grade, and confined to the fault zone. Galli geologists recommended drilling the pediment area where the Fluorspar Canyon Fault was projected to intersect a northwest-trending rangefront fault. The Mother Lode deposit was discovered in 1987 with drill hole ML-59, which intersected 47m (155 ft) of 1.7 g/t (0.049 ounces per ton) gold. GEXA also discovered the SNA deposit under pediment to the south of Mother Lode in 1987.
The Mother Lode deposit was delineated by drilling in 1987 and 1988. In 1988, GEXA formed USNGSJV with U.S. Precious Metals, Inc. and contract miner N.A. Degerstrom, Inc.. Mining of the Mother Lode deposit began in 1989. Between 1989 and 1991, the USNGSJV produced approximately 35,000 ounces of gold at Mother Lode at an average grade of 1.8 g/t gold. The bulk of the gold production came in 1990. Mining ceased in 1991 as oxide reserves were mined-out.
Rayrock purchased the Mother Lode property in 1995 from the USNGSJV; incorporating the Mother Lode and SNA deposit resources into the Daisy mine property. Rayrock continued to explore the Mother Lode-SNA area through 1997. Rayrock also intended to mine sulfide resources at Mother Lode as a part of their Daisy mine plan but a declining gold price in 1998 prohibited this development. Some mining development was done in the Mother Lode pit between 1998 and 1999, but no separate gold production was reported.
Glamis Marigold Mining Company (“Glamis”) acquired all of the assets of Rayrock in March 1999, including 100% interest in the Daisy mine property. Glamis continued limited gold recovery from the Daisy leach pad into early 2001. The majority of the Daisy mine property was dropped by Glamis in 2001 and 2002, and the Daisy Project began reclamation work. Glamis retained a small portion of the Daisy Project property including the 13 mining claims covering the Mother Lode mine area. Goldcorp USA, Inc. acquired all of the assets of Glamis in 2006, including the 13 claims at Mother Lode. The Mother Lode claims were transferred into Goldcorp Daisy LLC (a wholly owned subsidiary of Goldcorp USA, Inc.) in 2014. In May 2017, Corvus acquired Goldcorp Daisy LLC from Goldcorp USA, Inc. In 2017-2018, Corvus had staked 436 additional mining claims which comprise the current MLP land position shown in Figure 1.
In May 2016, Glamis was notified by the BLM that the BLM was closing the Plan of Operations and authorizing a reclamation cost estimate reduction of 100%. In June 2016, Goldcorp Daisy LLC received notification from the BMRR that all regulatory requirements for permanent closure of the Daisy mine had been met, and that the Water Pollution Control Permit was terminated. Goldcorp Daisy LLC was relieved of all obligations under Nevada Revised Statutes 445 A and the Nevada Administrative Code 445A. BMRR also concurred with the BLM’s decision and terminated the Reclamation Permit 0031 noting that all reclamation and surety liability associated with the permit had been successfully completed.
Sterling Gold Mining Corp began acquiring land and staking open ground in the Daisy-Secret Pass-Mother Lode area in 2005, and by 2007 had assembled a substantial land position at northern Bare Mountain covering all the former Daisy mine property and surrounding Glamis’ small Mother Lode claim block. The land position is currently owned by Coeur Mining Inc.
NBP History
The NBP is in the Bullfrog Mining District. Gold was discovered at what was to become the original Bullfrog mine by Frank “Shorty” Harris and Ernest Cross on August 9, 1904. Two periods of mining activity account for the majority of production from the District. It is reported that 111,805 ounces of gold and 868,749 ounces of silver were produced between 1905 and 1921, after which there was little production until the 1980s. In early 1982 geologists from St. Joe Minerals Corporation became interested in the District. They conducted extensive exploration in the area of the Montgomery-Shoshone and Senator Stewart mines, resulting in the discovery of the Bullfrog deposit in mid-1986. Several company acquisitions resulted in Barrick Gold Corporation (“Barrick”) being the final owner of the mine. The Bullfrog mine produced gold and silver from three separate deposits including: 1) main Bullfrog (open pit and underground); 2) Montgomery-Shoshone (open pit); and 3) Bonanza Mountain (open pit). Between 1989 and 1999, it is reported that the Bullfrog mine produced 2.31 Moz of gold and 3.0 Moz of silver.
The early history of the NBP is comingled with the greater Bullfrog Mining District. The Pioneer and Mayflower were the principal mines in the northern part of the district. The Pioneer mine was most active between 1909 and 1926 with about 15,000 feet of underground workings, all being developed within 330-feet of the surface. There are no accurate production figures, but limited records suggest that head grades were about one quarter ounce of gold per ton. The Mayflower mine was probably active during the same time, but again there are no reliable production records. Underground development at Sierra Blanca, Jolly Jane, Savage Valley, and YellowJacket also attest to historic mining and production, probably during the same period.
Modern exploration started in the early 1970s and consisted of a number of companies with focuses on different parts of the property. These programs consisted of a variety of activities including surface mapping and sampling, underground mapping and sampling, and drilling.
Between the early 1970s and the end of the Barrick exploration in the mid-1990s, approximately 249 rotary and reverse-circulation drill holes were drilled on the NBP.
With the downturn in gold price at the start of the 21st Century, interest in the NBP was essentially nonexistent. Redstar became attracted to the North Bullfrog area in late 2005, and started staking claims and acquiring leases on patented mining claims. In March 2007, Redstar granted ITH the right to earn an interest in the NBP and thereafter formed the NBPJV. In December 2007 ITH completed a lease of the Mayflower property, which was included in the NBPJV. Following the execution of the NBPJV agreement, ITH commenced active exploration on the NBP. In October 2008, Redstar completed a lease of the Connection property, which was also included in the NBPJV. On August 4, 2009, ITH purchased Redstar’s interests in the NBP and continued the exploration program as sole owner/lessor. On August 26, 2010, ITH spun out Corvus as a separate public company in a transaction which resulted in Corvus owning Corvus Nevada, through which all interest in the NBP was held, thus resulting in Corvus indirectly acquiring all of the interest in and responsibilities for the NBP.
Updated NBP-MLP Mineral Resources
Corvus has prepared the following Mineral Resource Estimates in accordance with the disclosure obligations in NI 43-101 and in accordance with the CIM Definition Standards. There have been historic resource estimates at MLP, within the context of NI 43-101, including actual mine production. In addition to NBP Resource Estimates, this report is the first Mineral Resource estimate at MLP since the adoption of NI 43-101. Project mineral inventories are reported at various cut-off-grades and classifications.
Vulcan® Software was used to estimate and quantify the Project Mineral Resources. Vulcan® software utilizes a block modeling approach to represent the deposit as a series of 3-D blocks to which grade attributes, and other attributes can be assigned. Mineral inventories have been pit-constrained using Whittle® in order to demonstrate the reasonable prospects of eventual economic extraction. General statistics and geostatistics were evaluated using GSLIB®, Sage2000®, Rockworks® Utilities, Excel and a variety of internally developed programs. Maps, cross sections, project layout and other visual aides were evaluated with Vulcan® and ArcGIS®.
The evaluation of Mineral Resources for the NBP-MLP Project involved the following procedures:
• Validation of the database and wireframe models developed by Corvus;
• Data Processing (compositing and capping) and statistical analysis;
• Selection of estimation strategies and estimation parameters;
• Block modelling and grade interpolation and validation of the results;
• Classification and tabulation of Mineral Resources;
• Quantifying the reasonable prospects for eventual economic extraction of Mineral Resources.
Table 3 summarizes the Mineral Resources, classified according to CIM definitions, for the Project. Reasonable prospects for eventual economic extraction, defined in this section of the report, assume open pit mining, run-of-mine heap leach processing of oxide mineralization, mill processing of un-oxidized mineralization or mill processing of gravity separable gold and silver.
Mineral Resources are not Mineral Reserves and do not have demonstrated economic viability. Numbers may not add up due to rounding. There are no known environmental, permitting, legal, title, taxation, socio-economic, marketing, political, or other relevant factors that may materially affect the Mineral Resource estimate in this report. The Qualified Person for the Mineral Resource Estimate is Scott Wilson.
Table 3 Mother Lode and North Bullfrog, Pit-constrained, Measured, Indicated and Inferred Mineral Resources at Gold Selling Price of USD $1,250 per Ounce (Effective date September 18, 2018)
* - Cautionary Note to U.S. Investors: The above table uses the terms “mineral resource,” “measured mineral resource,” “Indicated mineral resource”, “measured and indicated mineral resource” and “inferred mineral resource”. Investors are cautioned not to assume that all or any part of a mineral deposit in the above categories will ever be converted into SEC Industry Guide 7 compliant reserves. MLP and NBP do not contain SEC Industry Guide 7 compliant reserves and the properties are exploratory in nature. See “Cautionary Note to U.S. Investors Concerning Estimates of Measured, Indicated and Inferred Resources and Proven and Probable Reserves” above.
NBP-MLP Project Development Activities
Mother Lode Metallurgical Test Program
Metallurgical test work had been performed during the historical mining at Mother Lode and Daisy Projects during the period 1987-1999. Both of those projects had focused on mining of oxidized mineralization and historical metallurgical testing data was available, as well as production histories on gold recovery from the heap leach facilities. Both projects had recognized the existence of substantial sulphide mineralization that was not amenable to heap leaching and had performed preliminary studies on BioOx as a potential technology to allow processing of the sulphide mineralization.
During 2018, fresh materials from core and field duplicates from the MLP RC drilling were obtained and composites developed for oxide material, two sulphide materials, and for comminution tests. The sulfide materials were predominantly associated with the two different geologic units; Tip1 - a porphyritic rhyolite intrusive, and Tjvs - sediments of Joshua Hollow.
The 2018 test program took place at McClelland Laboratories, Inc., Hazen Research, Inc. and Resource Development, Inc.
Three metallurgical composites were prepared from drill hole reject samples to represent oxide material, sulfide material, type Tip1, and sulfide material type Tjvs. The samples comprising these composites were RC drill duplicate samples and were nominally minus 6.3 mm (1/4" in.) size.
Two additional composites were prepared for comminution testing. The samples were half-HQ core, nominally 25.4 mm (1") diameter in size.
A separate set of 52 oxide samples were investigated for preg-rob assaying, as well as a series of bottle roll tests to demonstrate CN gold recovery.
McClelland Laboratories completed:
• Head Analyses: conducted on the three metallurgical composites included fire assay, cyanide shake analysis, carbon and sulfur speciation analyses, and diagnostic leach tests.
• Comminution Testing: a crusher work index, abrasion index and ball mill work index test was conducted on each of the two comminution composites.
• Gravity Concentration Testing: a whole sample gravity concentration test was conducted on each of the two sulfide composites to determine response to whole sample gravity concentration at a P80-75µm feed size.
• Flotation Testing: whole sample rougher flotation testing was conducted on the two sulfide composites. Parameters evaluated included feed size, reagent schemes, solids density and desliming before flotation. Bulk, 14 kg, flotation tests were also conducted to generate concentrate for ultra-fine grinding/cyanidation testing and concentrate oxidation tests.
• Flotation Product Cyanidation Testing: Flotation concentrate from bulk whole flotation tests conducted on the sulfide composites. Concentrate samples were sent to ALS Minerals (Kamloops) for ultra-fine grinding (“UFG”) to generate feeds for cyanidation leach tests. Duplicate cyanidation tests, both with and without activated carbon added, were conducted on the reground concentrate from each composite. Bottle roll cyanidation tests were also conducted on flotation tailings from three selected tests.
• Bulk Gravity Concentration/Flotation Testing: a bulk (49 kg) gravity concentration test was conducted on each of the two sulfide composites at a P80 -75µm feed size, using a Knelson concentrator to generate concentrate and feed for bulk flotation testing. The resulting gravity concentrate was cleaned by panning. The resulting cleaner tails and rougher tails were recombined and used as feed for a bulk flotation test.
• Rougher flotation: this was conducted on each of the two gravity tailings to generate concentrate for testing. The gravity cleaner concentrates and flotation rougher concentrates were combined for down-stream process testing.
• Acid base accounting testing: The testing was also completed on the corresponding flotation tailings.
Additionally,
• Concentrate roasting tests and cyanidation of roasted residues: this was completed at Hazen Research Inc.
• Concentrate pressure oxidation and cyanidation of residues: this was completed at Research Development Incorporated, RDi.
• Atmospheric alkaline oxidation and cyanidation of residues: this was completed at Hazen Research Inc.
• Biological Oxidation tests: this was completed at McClelland Laboratories.
NBP Activities
Monitoring programs to develop baseline characterization data for support of future permitting activities continued during the period. Water quality monitoring wells and surface springs were sampled in July and December 2018, and in May and June 2019.
The required annual Noxious Weed survey was reported in November 2018, and the survey results did not indicate the presence of any noxious weed at the NBP site. The survey is performed annually and inspects the areas previously disturbed by Corvus exploration activities. The 2019 survey was conducted in June 2019 and results are pending.
The Company operated a meteorological monitoring station at NBP and submitted quarterly reports to the NDEP in September 2018, January 2019 and April 2019.
The Sarcobatus water rights have been renewed for the 2018-2019 period. Quarterly pump tests have been performed and the production volumes reported to Nevada Division of Water Resources. A temporary change of use to mining application was granted by the Nevada Division of Water Resources in 2018. The extraction point of 80 acre-feet of the water was transferred to the NBP to support future exploration operations, and a production water well was drilled in the northwest corner of the NBP, in the Sarcobatus Basin. A tank farm installed to support drilling operations during 2019.
MLP Activities
Baseline data collection work to support the preparation of an EA for an expanded exploration project at Mother Lode was completed during 2019. The EA document and Plan of Operations documents were submitted for review in November 2018. Additional field survey information was required and was collected in April 2019, and revised EA and Plan of Operations documents were submitted to BLM in July 2019.
A Right-of-Way application for use of the existing roads between the MLP site and the existing water wells was submitted to BLM in July 2019.
The historic Mother Lode water production well MW-4 was surveyed by video camera in November 2018 and found to be in serviceable condition. Pumping equipment was installed in November and approximately 6000 gallons of water was produced at a rate of 110 gpm. Historic well MW-3 was re-completed in January 2019. A video log of well PW-2 was performed in January 2019 and indicated that the well was in good condition. The re-completion of PW-2 is planned for December 2019. Completion reports were submitted to Nevada Division of Water Resources.
Planned Exploration Work 2019-2020
Exploration drilling was moved from Mother Lode to North Bullfrog in May 2019. Drilling will performed between May-October 2019 on the Cat Hill, Japeroid, YellowJacket and Deep Rhyolite targets. Following completion of the NBP drilling, the drilling rig will be moved back to the MLP in October 2019 for further exploration.
Exploration Budget 2019-2020
The Company currently projects an exploration expenditure of USD 1.7 million during the 12 months beginning June 1, 2019.
Qualified Person and Quality Control/Quality Assurance
Jeffrey A. Pontius (CPG 11044), a qualified person as defined by NI 43-101, has supervised the preparation of the scientific and technical information that forms the basis for the disclosure in this Annual Report on Form 10-K (other than the Mother Lode mineral resource estimate) and has reviewed and approved the disclosure herein. Mr. Pontius is not independent of the Company, as he is the Chief Executive Officer and President and holds common shares and incentive stock options in Corvus.
Carl E. Brechtel (Colorado PE 23212, Nevada PE 008744 and Registered Member 353000 of SME), a qualified person as defined by National Instrument 43-101, has coordinated execution of the technical work and has reviewed and approved the disclosure in this Annual Report on Form 10-K related thereto. Mr. Brechtel is not independent of the Company, as he is the Chief Operating Officer and holds Common Shares and incentive stock options in Corvus.
The work programs at the NBP and MLP were designed and supervised by Mark Reischman, Corvus Gold’s Nevada Exploration Manager, who is responsible for all aspects of the work, including the quality control/quality assurance program. On-site personnel at the project log and track all samples prior to sealing and shipping. Quality control is monitored by the insertion of blind certified standard reference materials and blanks into each sample shipment. All resource sample shipments are sealed and shipped to American Assay Laboratories in Reno, Nevada, for preparation and assaying.
Assaying for the NBP and MLP holes has been performed by American Assay Laboratories (“AAL”) in Sparks, Nevada. Corvus has no business relationship with AAL beyond being a customer for analytical services. The Sparks laboratory is Standards Council of Canada, Ottawa, Ontario Accredited Laboratory No. 536 and conforms with requirements of CAN-P-1579, CAN-P-4E (ISO/IEC 17025:2005).
Check assaying has been performed by Bureau Veritas North America (“BV”, formerly Inspectorate America Corporation), in Sparks Nevada and Vancouver, Canada, and ALS Minerals Laboratories (“ALS Minerals”), in Sparks, Nevada. Corvus has no business relationship with BV or ALS Minerals beyond being a customer for analytical services. The BV laboratory is Accredited Laboratory No. 720 and conforms to requirements of CAN-P-1579, CAN-P-4E (ISO 9001:2008) and ALS is Accredited Laboratory No. 660 and conforms to requirements of CAN-P-1579, CAN-P-4E (ISO/IEC 17025:2005).
Mr. Scott E. Wilson, CPG (10965), Registered Member of SME (4025107) and President of Resource Development Associates Inc., is an independent consulting geologist specializing in Mineral Reserve and Mineral Resource calculation reporting, mining project analysis and due diligence evaluations. He has acted as the Qualified Person, as defined in NI 43-101, for the Mineral Resource estimate and the Technical Report. Mr. Wilson has over 29 years of experience in surface mining, resource estimation and strategic mine planning. Mr. Wilson and Resource Development Associates Inc. are independent of the Company under NI 43-101. Mr. Wilson, a Qualified Person, has verified the data underlying the information disclosed herein by reviewing the reports of AAL and all procedures undertaken for QA/QC. All matters were consistent and accurate accordingly to his professional judgment. There were no limitations on the verification process.
For additional information on the NBP-MLP, including information relating to exploration, data verification and the Mineral Resource estimates, see the Technical Report, which is available under Corvus’ SEDAR profile at www.sedar.com and EDGAR profile at www.sec.gov. The Technical Report is referred to herein for informational purposes only and is not incorporated herein by reference. The Technical Report contains disclosure regarding Mineral Resources that are not Guide 7 compliant proven or probable reserves, see “Cautionary Note to U.S. Investors Regarding Estimates of Measured, Indicated and Inferred Resources and Proven and Probable Reserves” above.
ITEM 3.