ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
North Bullfrog Project, Nevada
Our principal mineral property is the NBP, a gold exploration project located in northwestern Nye County, Nevada, in the Northern Bullfrog Hills about 15 km north of the town of Beatty. The NBP does not have any known proven or probable reserves under SEC Industry Guide 7 and the project is exploratory in nature. A NI 43-101 technical report entitled “Technical Report and Preliminary Economic Assessment for Combined Mill and Heap Leach Processing at the North Bullfrog Project Bullfrog Mining District, Nye County, Nevada” with an effective date of June 16, 2015, as amended and restated on May 18, 2016 (the “Technical Report”) is available on SEDAR. The Technical Report is referred to herein for informational purposes only and is not incorporated herein by reference. The Technical Report contains disclosure regarding mineral resources that are not Guide 7 compliant proven or probable reserves, see “Cautionary Note to U.S. Investors Regarding Estimates of Measured, Indicated and Inferred Resources and Proven and Probable Reserves” above.
Property Description and Location
The NBP is located in the Bullfrog Hills of northwestern Nye County, Nevada (Figure 1). The NBP covers about 7,223 hectares of patented and unpatented mining claims in Sections 20, 21, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 32, 33, 34, 35, and 36 of T10S, R46E; sections 1, 2, 11, 12, 13, and 14 of T11S, R46E; section 31 of T10S, R47E; and sections 6, 9, 15, 16, and 17 T11S, R47E, MDBM. We have a total of nine option/lease agreements in place that give us control of an aggregate of 51 patented lode mining claims (Figure 2). Corvus Nevada owns an additional 5 patented claims (the Millman claims) and a 430 acre property with 1600 acre-feet of water rights located north of NBP in the Sarcobatus hydrographic basin.
Figure 1 Property Map showing the Location of the North Bullfrog Project
Figure 2 Property Map of the North Bullfrog Project, Blue outline shows the NBP boundary
and red areas are the Leased Private Land (UTm NAD 27 Zone 11)
Title and Ownership
Redstar Gold Joint Venture and ITH Land Purchase
Redstar Gold Corp. (“Redstar”) originally staked 213 unpatented lode mining claims and optioned 21 patented lode mining claims from six private parties in 2006. ITH optioned the original NBP land package from Redstar in 2006, creating the NBPJV. ITH added 11 patented lode mining claims (the Mayflower property) to the NBPJV in 2007 under the Greenspun lease agreement. Redstar added 12 patented lode mining claims (the Connection and adjacent properties) to the NBPJV in 2008 under the lease agreement with Lunar Landing LLC. In August 2009 ITH purchased 100% interest in the NBPJV from Redstar by paying Redstar CAD$250,000 and issuing 200,000 ITH common shares. These holdings were then transferred to Corvus during the spin out. Corvus completed an additional option lease agreement on two patented lode mining claims in the Jolly Jane area in March 2011. In May 2014, Corvus amended its existing lease agreement with Kolo Corp. to add the Yellow Rose and Yellow Rose No. 1 claims. In March 2015 Corvus added a second option lease agreement with Lunar Landing LLC, to lease the Sunflower, Sunflower No. 1 and Sunflower No. 2 claims for a total of nine option agreements on private land. Table 1 summarizes the obligations of the nine leases which are part of Corvus’ responsibilities on the Project.
Table 1: Summary of Lease Obligations that are part of the North Bullfrog Project
(1)Plus 50,000 shares of ITH and 25,000 Common Shares
Corvus has added an additional 808 federal unpatented lode mining claims which were staked in 2012, and added an additional 57 federal unpatented lode mining claims which were staked in late 2014.
Gregory Property (North Pioneer Area) Notification of Extension Term
Pursuant to a mining lease made and entered into as of June 16, 2006 between Redstar and an arm’s length individual, Redstar has leased one patented mineral claims which form part of the North Bullfrog project holdings. The lease is for an initial term of 10 years, and for so long thereafter as mining activities continue on the claims or contiguous claims held by the lessee. The lessee is required to pay advance minimum royalty payments (recoupable from production royalties) of USD 2,000 on execution, USD 2,000 on each of June 16, 2007, 2008 and 2009, USD 3,000 on June 16, 2010 and each anniversary thereafter, adjusted for inflation. The lessor is entitled to receive a 2% NSR royalty on all production, which may be purchased by the lessee for USD 1,000,000 per 1% (USD 2,000,000 for the entire royalty).
Hall Property (Savage Valley Area)
Pursuant to a mining lease made and entered into as of May 22, 2006 between Redstar and two arm’s length individuals, Redstar has leased 3 patented mineral claims. The lease is for an initial term of 10 years, and for so long thereafter as mining activities continue on the claims or contiguous claims held by the lessee. The lessee is required to pay advance minimum royalty payments (recoupable from production royalties) of USD 8,000 on execution, USD 4,800 on each of May 22, 2007, 2008 and 2009, USD 7,200 on May 22, 2010 and each anniversary thereafter, adjusted for inflation. The lessor is entitled to receive a 2% NSR royalty on all production, which may be purchased by the lessee for USD 1,000,000 per 1% (USD 2,000,000 for the entire royalty).
Kolo Property (Jolly Jane Area)
Pursuant to a mining lease made and entered into as of May 8, 2006 between Redstar and an arm’s length private Nevada corporation, Redstar has leased 2 patented mining claims (Jolly Jane and ZuZu). The lease is for an initial term of 10 years, and for so long thereafter as mining activities continue on the claims or contiguous claims held by the lessee. The lessee is required to pay advance minimum royalty payments (recoupable from production royalties) of USD 2,000 on execution, USD 2,000 on each of May 8, 2007, 2008 and 2009, USD 3,000 on May 8, 2010 and each anniversary thereafter, adjusted for inflation. The lessor is entitled to receive a 3% NSR royalty on all production from the Jolly Jane and ZuZu claims, which may be purchased by the lessee for USD 850,000 per 1% (USD 2,550,000 for the entire royalty).
The Kolo lease agreement was amended on May 29, 2014 to add the Yellow Rose and Yellow Rose No. 1 patented claims to the agreement. The term remained the same, but the amended lease includes additional Advance Minimum Royalty payments of USD 2,400 per year for years 1 and 2, increasing to USD 3,600 per year thereafter (adjusted for inflation) for the Yellow Rose claims. The Lessor is entitled to receive a 3% NSR royalty on all production from the Yellow Rose claims, which may be purchased by the lessee for USD 770,000 per 1% (USD 2,310,000 for the entire royalty).
Milliken Property (Pioneer Area)
Pursuant to a mining lease made and entered into as of May 8, 2006 between Redstar and two arm’s length individuals, Redstar has leased 3 patented mining claims. The lease is for an initial term of 10 years, and for so long thereafter as mining activities continue on the claims or contiguous claims held by the lessee. The lessee is required to pay advance minimum royalty payments (recoupable from production royalties) of USD 4,000 on execution, USD 3,500 on each of May 8, 2007, 2008 and 2009, USD 4,500 on May 8, 2010 and each anniversary thereafter, adjusted for inflation. The lessor is entitled to receive a 2% NSR royalty on all production, which may be purchased by the lessee for USD 1,000,000 per 1% (USD 2,000,000 for the entire royalty).
Prichard Property (Pioneer Area)
Pursuant to a mining lease made and entered into as of May 16, 2006 between Redstar and an arm’s length individual, Redstar has leased 12 patented mineral claims. The lease is for an initial term of 10 years, and for so long thereafter as mining activities continue on the claims or contiguous claims held by the lessee. The lessee is required to pay advance minimum royalty payments (recoupable from production royalties) of USD 20,500 on execution and USD 20,000 on each anniversary thereafter. The lessor is entitled to receive a 4% NSR royalty on all production, which may be purchased by the lessee for USD 1,000,000 per 1% (USD 4,000,000 for the entire royalty).
Lunar Property (Connection Area)
Pursuant to a mining lease and option to purchase agreement made effective October 27, 2008 between Redstar and an arm’s length limited liability company, Redstar has leased (and has the option to purchase) 12 patented mining claims. The ten-year, renewable mining lease requires advance minimum royalty payments (recoupable from production royalties, but not applicable to the purchase price if the option to purchase is exercised) of USD 10,800 on signing and annual payments for the first three anniversaries of USD 10,800 and USD 16,200 for every year thereafter. Redstar has an option to purchase the property (subject to the NSR royalty below) for USD 1,000,000 at any time during the life of the lease. Production is subject to a 4% NSR royalty, which may be purchased by the lessee for USD 1,250,000 per 1% (USD 5,000,000 for the entire royalty).
Lunar Property (Sunflower Area)
Pursuant to a mining lease and option to purchase agreement made effective March 30, 2015 between Corvus Nevada and an arm’s length limited liability company, Corvus Nevada has leased (and has the option to purchase) 3 patented mining claims. The 3 ½ year, renewable mining lease requires advance minimum royalty payments (recoupable from production royalties, but not applicable to the purchase price if the option to purchase is exercised) of USD 5,000 on signing and annual payments for the three anniversaries of USD 5,000. Corvus Nevada has an option to purchase the property (subject to the NSR royalty below) for USD 300,000 at any time during the life of the lease. Production is subject to a 4% NSR royalty, which may be purchased by the lessee for USD 500,000 per 1% (USD 2,000,000 for the entire royalty).
Sussman Property (Jolly Jane Area)
Pursuant to a mining lease and option to purchase made effective March 1, 2011 between Corvus Nevada and an arm’s length individual, Corvus Nevada has leased, and has the option to purchase, 2 patented mineral claims. The lease is for an initial term of 10 years, subject to extension for an additional 10 years (provided advance minimum royalties are timely paid), and for so long thereafter as mining activities continue on the claims. The lessee is required to pay advance minimum royalty payments (recoupable from production royalties, but not applicable to the purchase price if the option to purchase is exercised) of USD 20,000 on execution, USD 25,000 on each of March 1, 2012, 2013 and 2014, USD 30,000 on March 1, 2015 and each anniversary thereafter, adjusted for inflation. The lessor is entitled to receive a 2% NSR royalty on all production. The lessee may purchase the royalty for USD 1,000,000 per 1%. If the lessee purchases the entire royalty (USD 2,000,000) the lessee will also acquire all interest of the lessor in the subject property
Greenspun Property (Mayflower Area)
ITH, through what is now Corvus Nevada, entered into a mining lease with option to purchase with the Greenspun Group for 183 acres of patented lode mining claims that cover much of the Mayflower prospect. The Mayflower lease requires Corvus to make payments and complete work programs as outlined in Table 2. During the term of the lease any production from the Mayflower property is subject to a sliding scale royalty, also outlined in Table 2. Corvus has the right to purchase a 100% interest in the Mayflower property for $7.5 million plus a 0.5% NSR (if gold is less than $500) or 1.0% (if gold is above $500) at any time during the term of the lease (subject to escalation for inflation if the option is exercised after the 10th year of the lease). The annual property taxes to be paid by Corvus for the Mayflower property are $214. On February 11, 2015, the Mayflower mining lease with option to purchase was amended with the addition of an anti-dilution clause applying to the ITH shares and with an increase in the annual payment to include 25,000 Common Shares.
Table 2: Summary of the Material Terms of the Mayflower/Greenspun Group Lease
Term: Five Years Beginning December 1, 2007
Five additional years with an additional five year period, plus an additional 3 year period or so long thereafter as commercial production continues
Lease Payments: Due on Each Anniversary Date of the Lease
On regulatory acceptance - US$5,000 and 25,000 ITH shares
Each of first - fourth anniversaries, US$5,000 and 20,000 ITH shares
Each of fifth - ninth anniversaries, US$10,000, 50,000 ITH shares and 25,000 Common Shares
Work Commitments: Excess Expenditures in Any Year Can Be Carried Forward, or if under Spent the Unspent Portion Paid to Greenspun Group
Years 1-3 US$100,000 each year the lease is in effect
Years 4-6 US$200,000 each year the lease is in effect
Years 7-10 US$300,000 each year the lease is in effect
Retained Royalty: Production Sliding Scale Net Smelter Return Based on Price of Gold Each Quarter
2% if gold is less than US$400 per ounce
3% if gold is between US$401and US$500 per ounce
4% if gold is more than US$500 per ounce
Advance Minimum Royalty Payments (if not in commercial production by the tenth anniversary, in order to extend lease for an additional three years)
Years 11-13 US$100,000 each year the lease is in effect and commercial production has not been achieved
Purchase Option:
During first 10 years, the property can be purchased for US$7.5 million plus an 0.5% NSR (if gold is less than US$500) or 1.0% (if gold is above US$500)
After the tenth anniversary the US$7.5 million purchase price escalates by the Consumer Price Index, using the CPI immediately prior to the tenth anniversary as a base
Millman Property
On February 21, 2013 Corvus Nevada signed a purchase agreement, which was subsequently closed on March 28, 2013, for the purchase of the surface rights only to five patented lode mining claims owned by Mr. and Mrs. Gordon Millman and located east of the Mayflower Property. This ground could be used for potential overburden storage from the Mayflower deposit as well as improving access to the Mayflower Property in general. Corvus Nevada purchased the surface rights for US $160,000. Additionally, Corvus Nevada agreed to pay the Millmans a fee of US $0.02 per ton of any potential overburden storage subject to a minimum storage of 12 million short tons of material. The note for the storage fee of $240,000 was paid on December 17, 2015.
Sarcobatus Property
In December 2013, SoN Land and Water LLC, wholly owned by Corvus Nevada, completed the purchase of an 160 ha fee simple parcel of land approximately 30 km north of the NBP which carries with it 1,600 acre feet of irrigation water rights within the Sarcobatus Flats water basin. The cost of the land and associated water rights was US $1,034,626. The Company has registered the purchase of water rights with the Nevada State Engineer (“NSE”) and will make application to the NSE to temporarily move the production point to the NBP, and change the application to mining. The water right requires annual renewal and has currently been extended through June 11, 2017.
Other property considerations
All of the unpatented lode mining claims are on U.S. public land administered by the BLM. These claims give Corvus the right to explore for and mine minerals which include the metals gold and silver, subject to the necessary permits. The current exploration permits from BLM and NDEP allow Corvus surface access, maintenance of roads, drilling and sampling, and a defined amount of accompanying surface disturbance. The unpatented lode mining claims require payment of yearly maintenance fees to the BLM and Nye County (recording fees) of an aggregate of $144,459 (estimated for 2016). Annual property taxes to be paid by Corvus for some of the properties under the original six Redstar leases and subsequent leases are tabulated in Table 1.
Current exploration activities are covered by a Plan of Operations (NVN-83002) with the BLM. Two exploration Plans of Operation are in place with the Nevada Department of Environmental Protection (“NDEP”) (NDEP#0280 and #0290) that fulfill the State of Nevada permitting obligations on private and public lands, respectively. Reclamation bonds, related to environmental liabilities to which the NBP is subject, are in place to cover activities on the property. Corvus’ reclamation liabilities are covered by surety bonds issued by Lexon Insurance Company in the amount of $351,066 for 106 acres of disturbance on public land with the BLM and $209,070 for 20.3 acres of disturbance on private land with NDEP.
Accessibility, Physiography, Climate and Infrastructure
The NBP is accessible as a two and one half hour (209 km, 130 mile) drive north of Las Vegas Nevada along US Highway 95. US 95 is the major transportation route between Las Vegas, Reno Nevada and Boise Idaho. Las Vegas is serviced by a major international airport. The Project lies immediately to the west of the highway. Beatty, Nevada is the closest town to the Project with a population of about 1,100 and contains most basic services. Access around the Project is by a series of reasonably good gravel and dirt roads that extend to most of the important exploration areas.
The NBP is in Western Nevada’s high desert, which receives about 15 cm of precipitation per year, mostly as modest snow fall in the winter and thunderstorms in the summer. The average daily temperature (°F) varies from a low of 40 in January to a high of 80 in July. The hills at the NBP are covered with sparse low brush including creosote, four-wing saltbush, rabbit brush and Nevada ephedra. The project is in the Basin and Range province, but the local topographic relief is only a few hundred feet. Most of the NBP area is characterized by low hills separated by modest width valleys.
Beatty, Nevada is the closest town to the NBP and contains most basic services. The nearest major supply point that would support a major mining related activity is Las Vegas, Nevada about 160 km to the southeast. There are several accessible old mine workings.
There are currently no other structures or infrastructure on the NBP. Major mining and construction equipment sales and service are readily available throughout Nevada; however, most major mining operations are located in the northern part of the state and are serviced from the cities of Reno and Elko. Human resources are readily available within the community of Beatty, which has a population of approximately 1,100 people, and historically provided a substantial portion of the workforce for the Bullfrog Mine, which operated between 1989 and 1998 as both an open pit and underground gold mining operation. Pahrump, approximately 110 km to the southeast of Beatty, is a larger community with a population of 36,000. Pahrump is a local regional center, with a hospital and emergency medical services, a college campus with technical training for industrial support and expanded service sectors.
Electrical power is provided to the immediate area of the NBP by the Valley Electric Association, Inc. (“VEA”), which is headquartered in Pahrump. A 25 kV line runs north from Beatty, NV along Highway 95. VEA began upgrading its existing electrical facilities, on the eastern portion of the NBP, in mid-2013. The upgrade has a separate circuit of 15 Mw capacity and will accommodate the presently anticipated future demand from the NBP. We anticipate that adequate power will be available for all proposed future mining operations at the project. The Company contributed US $28,500 for the line upgrade. Two electrical feeder lines run west from the main line, one to the perimeter of the NBP property to power an aggregate crushing plant operating in the southern portion of NBP and a second that traverses the property to power a centrally located microwave station and the Company’s weather station which has been installed on Corvus controlled patented mining claims near Mayflower.
Water resources for a mining project must be obtained from the ground water in the Sarcobatus Flats. There appears to be sufficient resources in the ground water basins at the project, and the Company has registered the water rights purchased in Sarcobatus with the NSE. The Company will make application to convert the water rights to a temporary mining use, and to transfer the point of extraction to the NBP. Water wells, booster stations, and pipelines would be developed to provide water to the mine, process facilities, and ancillary structures. The current plan would be to drill several wells northwest of the heap leach pad and install a fresh water line from the well fields to the process plant. The first phase of the hydrologic characterization program was completed during the 2013 drill program, which successfully identified a potential water production well site in the Sarcobatus Flats (Nevada State Water Basin 146) within the northwest portion of the NBP.
Geology and Mineralization
Geology
The NBP is within the Walker Lane structural province and the Southwestern Nevada Volcanic Field (“SWNVF”). The Project lies approximately ten kilometres west of the western margin of the middle Miocene Timber Mountain caldera complex of the SWNVF and many of the volcanic units exposed on the NBP originated from the caldera complex. However, it appears that many of the most important host rocks to the mineralization are locally derived from what is now known as the North Bullfrog Hills Volcanic Complex (“NBVC”) and are slightly older than the main ash flows erupted from the Timber Mountain Caldera. The region is underlain by Paleozoic sedimentary rocks which are the basement for the mid-Miocene tuffs and related rocks that are the hosts for most of the mineralization in the Bullfrog mining district. The region was subjected to extensional faulting which was contemporaneous with volcanism and localized sedimentary basins filled with reworked volcanic and basement debris developed as a result. Multiple episodes of extension have been documented. Most of the major fault zones have northerly strikes with normal displacement to the west. However, hanging wall antithetic faults are also present. Some of the major faults are interpreted to have listric shapes, similar to the MP fault at the Bullfrog mine, and likely sole into a district-scale detachment fault at depth. During younger periods of extension many of the older faults in the hanging walls of these listric structures have experienced significant rotation. Figure 3 is a geologic map of NBP showing target exploration and resource areas;
Figure 3 Geologic Map of NBP Showing Target and Resource Areas and Legend of Geologic Symbols
The Northern Bullfrog Hills (“NBH”) is underlain by pre-Tertiary basement rocks consisting of Precambrian to Cambrian sedimentary rocks of the Wood Canyon, Zabriskie and Carrara Formations. The basement rocks are exposed on the property in two prominent erosional windows. The pre-Tertiary windows are remnants of a basement structural high of significant relief upon which the Tertiary rocks were deposited. The basement rocks are overlain by a sequence of Miocene volcanic and lesser sedimentary rocks of the SWNVF.
The lowermost Tertiary rocks are known as the Jolly Jane Formation and consist of a basal conglomerate overlain by a sequence of heterogeneous sedimentary rocks including mudstone, siltstone and sandstone. The basal conglomerate is a time transgressive surface lag deposit which generally contains abundant clasts of pre-Tertiary basement rocks. The type locality for this unit is known from drilling in the Jolly Jane area and consists of up to 50 metres of heterogeneous sediments which appear to have been accumulated in a structural basin prior to and during the onset of volcanism. Sandstone, silt, shale and calcareous sediments are present with both black organic-rich and hematitic intervals also present. It is common to see tuffaceous sediments in the upper portions of the sand and shale sequences. The thickness and composition of the Jolly Jane Formation is highly variable, and is interpreted to have been deposited on a Tertiary erosional unconformity of significant relief.
The Jolly Jane Formation is overlain by the Savage Formation which consists of locally-sourced lava domes, flows and associated intrusive rocks of dacitic to rhyolitic composition. The Savage Formation also includes intercalated volcaniclastic intervals (re-worked dacite) and locally carbonaceous sediments. It is rather heterogeneous in terms of the thickness and the areal distribution of individual domes, flows and epiclastic intervals. The Savage Formation is only locally mineralized.
The Pioneer Formation rhyolitic pyroclastics overlie the Savage Formation dacites. The Pioneer Formation ranges from 10 to more than 200 metres in thickness and consists of monotonous lithic lapilli tuffs. In the northern parts of the NBP these tuffs are mixed with rhyolite domes of uncertain origin, however, dating shows that the tuffs and rhyolites are essentially the same age. Epiclastic sediments found at the top of the Pioneer Formation suggest that an angular unconformity is developed between this sequence and the overlying Sierra Blanca Tuff. The Pioneer Formation is extensively altered and hosts a large portion of the disseminated gold mineralization.
The Sierra Blanca Tuff is a large rhyolitic ash flow tuff that blankets the NBP. Unlike the preceding units, which appear to have been locally derived, the Sierra Blanca Tuff probably represents a regional ash flow eruption that came from outside the NBP. The Sierra Blanca Tuff varies in thickness from <70 metres at Jolly Jane to >160 metres at North Sierra Blanca. The tuff consists of a single cooling unit and is densely welded. The densely welded nature makes the rock brittle and, as a consequence, it is the most important host for both disseminated and vein style mineralization at the NBP.
Following the deposition of the Sierra Blanca Tuff, local volcanism continued with the deposition of the Savage Dacite, another locally-sourced sequence of lava domes, flows, pyroclastics and epiclastics of primarily dacitic composition. The Savage Dacite varies greatly in both thickness and composition, characterized by alternating eruptive cycles of geochemically different dacitic magmas. The Savage Dacite is only mineralized where it is in contact with significant fault structures.
Zircon dating shows that the entire sequence from Pioneer Formation through the Savage Dacite was deposited between 16.1Ma and 14.4Ma, making it among the oldest volcanics in the region.
The 13.5Ma Crater Flat Tuff, which consists of two regionally extensive ash flow cooling units, appears to overlie the Savage Dacite at both Savage Valley and Jolly Jane but the contact is not exposed at the surface. The Crater Flat Tuffs are extensively altered at both YellowJacket and Jolly Jane but no significant mineralization has yet been identified in these units.
The Rainbow Mountain Sequence is the most heterogeneous unit of the NBH. It consists of intercalated sequences of heterolithic and monolithic sedimentary debris flow breccias, large slide bocks derived from local volcanic and sedimentary units, as well as rhyolitic ash flows and rhyolite domes. The debris flow breccias are bedded but poorly sorted, consisting of sand- to large boulder-size clasts of predominantly volcanic rocks. Both gravity sliding and fluvial processes appear to have played a role in deposition. The volcanic debris is derived from many of the SWNVF units that are preserved as tabular ash flow tuff sheets elsewhere in the Bullfrog Hills. These include the Crater Flat Group, the Paintbrush Group and the Timber Mountain Group tuffs. The debris flow breccia deposits are largely the result of the re-working of the SWNVF units via gravity sliding and alluvial fan development around fault-bounded basement structural highs. The Debris Flow Breccia sequence represents a period of dynamic extensional faulting, scarp development and mass wasting. Massive, relatively intact blocks of monolithic breccias are interpreted as landslide megabreccia deposits that were shed off local fault scarps. Gold mineralization at Mayflower and Connection is hosted in the Rainbow Mountain Sequence. The thickness of this unit exceeds 300 metres in the Mayflower area.
Mineralization
All of the mineralization at NBP can be classified as low-sulphidation epithermal mineralization. There are at least two and possibly three distinct periods of mineralization present. Older mineralization, before 11.2 Ma, is observed at the Sierra Blanca and Jolly Jane Mineral Resource areas. A younger mineralization, 10 Ma, occurs at the Mayflower Mineral Resource area.
In both mineralization periods, there are two styles of low suphidation gold/silver mineralization; (1) high grade, fault controlled fissure veins, vein breccias and stockworks (Mayflower, Liberator, YellowJacket, Liberty and others), and (2) low grade disseminated replacement deposits (Sierra Blanca, Jolly Jane and Mayflower). The low grade, disseminated mineralization is currently the more abundant type at NBP.
1)Sierra Blanca Mineralization
Mineralization at Sierra Blanca can be classified into six different styles:
·Disseminated gold mineralization associated with pervasive silica adularia and sulphidation of iron (ubiquitous at Sierra Blanca );
·Gold associated with fault controlled suphidation (NE30, NE50, NE60 Faults);
·Gold associated with quartz veining;
·Continuous quartz vein and associated stockworks (Josh vein at YellowJacket);
·Localized quartz veins and stockworks (numverous zones);
·Sulphide veining with gold and tellurium mineralization (Air Track Hill).
Pervasive disseminated mineralization occurs in the Pioneer Formation and Sierra Blanca Tuff over virtually the entire area at Sierra Blanca at 0.2-0.3 g/t gold grade. Oxidation of this mineralization extends locally to 200m and is associated with good cyanide leach metallurgical recovery. Fault hosted mineralization has been encountered in numerous locations (NS10, E30, NE40, NE50, NE60 and Savage Faults) with conststently higher gold grade (1-17 g/t) than the disseminated mineralization. Where oxidized, the fault zones respond well to cyanide leaching.
Quartz vein and stockwork mineralization occurs primarily in the YellowJacket deposit, a generally NW striking structural corridor along the eastern side of Sierra Blanca. The gold-bearing quatz vein and stockwork zones are generally gray translucent quartz with native gold and electrum, and varying amounts of acanthite or other silver sulphosalts. Metallurgical testing indicates high gold and silver recovery with cyanide leaching, both above and below the oxidation horizon.
The pervasive disseminated mineralization at Sierra Blanca and the Josh vein and stockwork mineralization at YellowJacket comprise approximately 84% of the gold resource at NBP.
2)Jolly Jane Mineralization
Jolly Jane is located in the middle of NBP and virtually all of the geological elements common to NBP are found there. Disseminated mineralization occurs within the Sierra Blanc Tuff, which is thinner, approximately 70 m as compared to a thickness of >160 m at Siera Blanca. The mineralized Sierra Blanca Tuff is preserved a a horst between the West Jolly Jane Fault and the East Jolly Jane Fault. Gold grade is similar to Sierra Blanca disseminated mineralization with slightly lower cyanide leach recovery.
3)Mayflower Mineralization
Younger, fracture controlled deposits at Mayflower and Pioneer were historically mined. The Mayflower Mine developed on a calcite vein and stockwork zone along a NW striking, steeply SW-dipping fault zone in silica-adularia-altered heterolithioc debris flow breccia in the Rainbow Mountain Sequence. Multiple high-grade gold areas have been identified, surrounded by low grade mineralization. Mayflower mineralization is typically 0. 4-0.5 g/t and is well oxidized with good cyanide leach recovery.
Historical Work
The NBP is in the Bullfrog Mining District. Gold was discovered at what was to become the original Bullfrog mine by Frank “Shorty” Harris and Ernest Cross on August 9, 1904. Two periods of mining activity account for the majority of production from the District. It is reported that 111,805 ounces of gold and 868,749 ounces of silver were produced between 1905 and 1921, after which there was little production until the 1980s. In early 1982 geologists from St. Joe Minerals Corporation became interested in the District. They conducted extensive exploration in the area of the Montgomery-Shoshone and Senator Stewart mines, resulting in the discovery of the Bullfrog deposit in mid-1986. Several company acquisitions resulted in Barrick Gold Corporation (“Barrick”) being the final owner of the mine. The Bullfrog mine produced gold and silver from three separate deposits including: 1) main Bullfrog (open pit and underground); 2) Montgomery-Shoshone (open pit); and 3) Bonanza Mountain (open pit). Between 1989 and 1999, it is reported that the Bullfrog mine produced 2.31 Moz of gold and 3.0 Moz of silver.
The early history of the NBP is comingled with the greater Bullfrog Mining District. The Pioneer and Mayflower were the principal mines in the northern part of the district. The Pioneer mine was most active between 1909 and 1926 with about 15,000 feet of underground workings, all being developed within 330 feet of the surface. There are no accurate production figures, but limited records suggest that head grades were about one quarter ounce of gold per ton. The Mayflower mine was probably active during the same time, but again there are no reliable production records. Underground development at Sierra Blanca, Jolly Jane, Savage Valley, and YellowJacket also attest to historic mining and production, probably during the same period.
Modern exploration started in the early 1970s and consisted of a number of companies with focuses on different parts of the property. These programs consisted of a variety of activities including surface mapping and sampling, underground mapping and sampling, and drilling.
Between the early 1970’s and the end of the Barrick exploration in the mid-1990’s, approximately 249 rotary and reverse-circulation drill holes were drilled on the NBP.
With the downturn in gold price at the start of the 21st Century, interest in the NBP was essentially nonexistent. Redstar became attracted to the North Bullfrog area in late 2005, and started staking claims and acquiring leases on patented mining claims. In March 2007, Redstar granted ITH the right to earn an interest in the NBP and thereafter form the NBPJV. In December 2007 ITH completed a lease of the Mayflower property, which was included in the NBPJV. Following the execution of the NBPJV agreement, ITH commenced active exploration on the NBP. In October 2008, Redstar completed a lease of the Connection property, which was also included in the NBPJV. On August 4, 2009, ITH purchased Redstar’s interests in the NBP and continued the exploration program as sole owner/lessor. On August 26, 2010, ITH spun out Corvus as a separate public company in a transaction which resulted in Corvus owning Corvus Nevada, through which all interest in the NBP was held, thus resulting in Corvus indirectly acquiring all of the interest in and responsibilities for the NBP.
Recent Exploration Work 2015-2016
The Company is engaged in a District wide exploration program to assess the potential for further high-grade vein systems similar to the recent YellowJacket discovery as well as assessing the potential for expanding the YellowJacket system itself. The initial drilling phase of this new discovery exploration program was started in the spring of 2014 with surface mapping, sampling and geophysics in the new East Bullfrog area as well as further assessment of the greater Sierra Blanca area. Drilling of newly defined targets in the main Sierra Blanca/YellowJacket resource area and the new East Bullfrog exploration area began in August of 2015 and involved the completion of approximately 12,690 metres of reverse circulation drilling by the end of May 2016. The program included the first modern exploration drilling ever done in the new and very large East Bullfrog, a massive area of intense alteration covering some 142 kilometres. In addition, the program tested a number of targets in and around the large Sierra Blanca/YellowJacket deposit.
The 2016 North Bullfrog exploration program is currently scheduled to complete approximately 13,000 metres of drilling, with 6,256 metres completed in the first phase to follow-up on a new potential high-grade gold discovery adjacent to the peripheral boundaries of the proposed pits as outlined in the Technical Report and to delineate other prospective new discoveries from the 2015-2016 drill program (Figure 4). Exploration targets for 2016 include: NW Sierra Blanca, Swale, Black Vein/Liberator, YellowJacket Extension, Lower Savage, Jolly Jane North and Cat Hill.
Figure 4: Map of 2015-2016 exploration targets, North Bullfrog project, Nevada
Target Reviews
NW Sierra Blanca
The NW Sierra Blanca target area is over a kilometre long and located about 700 metres west of the high-grade YellowJacket deposit, where higher grade mineralization is associated with a broad zone of stockwork quartz veining. Drilling and exploration modeling in 2015 extended the disseminated low-grade system several hundred metres to the west with potential for multiple structural zones hosting high-grade stockwork type mineralization.
The NW Sierra Blanca Zone lies along the western boundary of the main Sierra Blanca deposit under shallow cover and appears to be analogous to the high-grade YellowJacket Deposit to the east. This new zone has returned encouraging intercepts from shallow depths such as 3.1 metres of 5 g/t gold and 42.0 g/t silver (Hole NB-15-282) and 20 metres of 1.3 g/t gold and 1.8 g/t silver (Hole NB-15-269). This new discovery trends to the NNE. To date all of the holes drilled under the shallow pediment cover to the west of the Sierra Blanca Deposit have intersected thick zones of low-grade mineralization with several intervals of +1 g/t gold.
Swale
The Swale target represents a new style of gold mineralization with both quartz vein and replacement type, which are uniquely hosted by an extensive rhyolite intrusive body that is located at the north end of the YellowJacket trend. Results from two holes have been returned from the Swale target to date with hole NB-16-300 intersecting the new zone at the bottom of the hole (18.3m @ 1.76 g/t Au). The Swale mineralization is directly associated with an intensely fractured and altered rhyolite body. Hole NB-16-299 intersected the edge of this new zone at the bottom of the hole where alteration intensity was increasing, follow up drilling is ongoing.
Lower Savage
The Savage target is located about one kilometre south of the YellowJacket deposit and has returned broad zones of disseminated low-grade mineralization with a deeper zone of higher grade intrusive related replacement type of mineralization (NB-15-273 with 3.1m @ 2.05 g/t gold, 178 g/t silver and up to 0.2% copper). This deeper mineralization could be the beginning of a new mineralized horizon underlying the entire Sierra Blanca/YellowJacket deposit area.
Rhyolite & YellowJacket Extension
The Rhyolite-YellowJacket extension target is at the northeast end of the currently defined YellowJacket deposit. The Rhyolite extension is a NE trending zone that was tested with three holes in 2015, with two returning intercepts of high-grade stockwork type mineralization (NB-15-267 with 10.7m @ 3.5 g/t gold and NB-15-266 with 6.1m @ 1.9 g/t gold). The northern extension of the YellowJacket deposit was tested with four holes which indicate low-grade mineralization continues to the north another 100 metres but that the vein system is likely displaced to the west into the “Swale” target area which has returned positive results.
Jolly Jane North
The Jolly Jane North target is centered along the West Jolly Jane Fault which hosts broad zones of deeply oxidized, disseminated gold mineralization. This structural zone dips shallowly to the west and could be similar to the main ore controlling fault in the historic Bullfrog deposit located 10 kilometres to the south. The West Jolly Jane Fault projects underneath the main Sierra Blanca/YellowJacket deposit. Assuming this feature is through going and its dip is constant it should project under the current deposits at a depth of 400 to 500 metres below the surface. Further surface exploration and follow-up drilling will confirm the potential of this zone and its relationship to the Jolly Jane deposit to the south and its potential for deep high-grade mineralization below the main Sierra Blanca/YellowJacket deposit.
Cat Hill and other Eastern Zone Potential
Results from the Cat Hill target have confirmed the presence of a large oxide gold system which is along the structural margin of a large block of basement rocks. This geologic setting is similar to that in the Sierra Blanca/YellowJacket deposit and when linked to other discoveries at Connection, Vinegaroon and Alunite Hill could be outlining a system with similar size potential. These large areas of uplifted blocks of basement rocks have created major structural movement along their margins which created large fault zones that form pathways for mineralizing fluids with potential to form the large disseminated deposits as well as the fault controlled high-grade deposits. The drill discoveries in this new area of large disseminated gold mineralization have now outlined a perspective area for the discovery of another Sierra Blanca/YellowJacket deposit under a thin veneer of alteration cover.
Drilling Program Results
NW Sierra Blanca Target
Initial results from the first target drill tested in 2015 were announced on July 9, 2015 and returned encouraging stockwork veining intercepts from the NW Sierra Blanca target, a new NE trending structural zone with similarities to the YellowJacket deposit which is approximately 400 metres to the east (Table 3).
Table 3: Stockwork Vein Intercepts* from North Sierra Blanca Target
(Reported drill intercepts are not true widths. At this time, there is insufficient data with respect to the shape of the mineralization to calculate its true orientation in space.)
* stockwork veining is defined as the intervals vein density of >5% and a cutoff grade of 1.0 g/t gold
NB-15-425 was targeted on a series of NE-trending, moderate to steeply west-dipping structures that control alteration and quartz stockwork veining on the northwest side of the Sierra Blanca deposit and possibly the western counterpart for the YellowJacket Vein system. The Sierra Blanca deposit was originally drilled out with vertical holes. Identifying steeply dipping feeder veins similar to the YellowJacket discovered on the east side or others that could be internal or west of the deposit indicates potential for another YellowJacket deposit. The upper part of hole NB-15-425 encountered 4.1 metres at 1.3 g/t Au oxide mineralization in the Savage Valley dacite on a splay of the NE30 fault zone. These grades in upper level stockwork veining hosted in dacite are consistent with those returned from the upper parts for a YellowJacket type system and follow up drilling will target this structural zone along strike and deeper.
NB-15-426 also targeted the same NE-trending, moderate to steeply west-dipping structural zone as hole NB-15-425 approximately 400 metres to the NE. This area of the structural zone returned a number of vertical RC drill intercepts of higher gold and silver values as well as anomalous copper indicative of the more productive parts of the YellowJacket system. Hole NB-15-426 intersected 3.7 metres at 1.31 g/t Au, within a broader interval of 63.53 metres at 0.52 g/t, all within the Sierra Blanca Tuff. This mineralized stockwork interval exhibits a similar vein paragenesis to the YellowJacket Vein, suggesting the interval is in close proximity to a productive high-grade vein. NB-15-426 was lost in a mineralized fault zone before reaching completion depth and will be followed up.
The NW Sierra Blanca Zone is currently defined by about a dozen drill holes over a kilometre of strike length (Figure 5). The gold system is over 100 metres wide and extends to at least 150 metres in depth of low-grade gold and silver with narrower 2-20-metre-wide zones of 1-5 g/t stockwork related gold-silver mineralization. The system trends to the northeast and includes the new Rhyolite zone as seen in hole NB-15-267 (NR15-14, October 15, 2015), with 10.7m @ 3.47 g/t Au & 3.6 g/t Ag within 210m at 0.47 g/t Au & 1.4 g/t Ag, and hole NB-15-282 (NR16-02, January 19, 2016) that is 600 metres to the SW which returned 3.1m @ 5 g/t Au and 42 g/t Ag within 99.1m of 0.64 g/t Au and 4.08 g/t Ag. Table 4 lists drill results for 2015 drilling.
Gold and silver mineralization in this area is a mix of replacement sulfide/oxide material surrounding quartz stockwork zones that are controlled by the two large structural zones. The north-south NWSB structure extends north out of the Air Track Hill area where it was hit in prior drilling and projects through the intersection with the northeast trending Rhyolite Zone and continues to the north under cover. Follow-up step out holes along strike to the north and south and down dip were drilled in this encouraging new target area.
In January 2016, the Company announced intercepts from the newly discovered NW Sierra Blanca Zone which appears to be analogous to the high-grade YellowJacket Deposit located 700 metres to the west (Table 5). The new high-grade intercept of 3.1 metres of 5 grams per tonne (g/t) Au and 42.0 g/t Ag within a broader 99 metres of 0.64 g/t Au and 4.1 g/t Ag is approximately 100 metres North of the initial discovery of the NW Sierra Blanca Zone (NR15-15, Nov 3, 2015). This is a high priority target area for follow-up drilling in the 2016 drill program. Previously released data from the NW Sierra Blanca Zone area are listed in Table 5. Drill results for 2016 are listed in Table 6.
Figure 5: Geologic map of the NW Sierra Blanca Target.
This new shallow zone of gold and silver mineralization trends to the NNE along the margin of the previously defined Sierra Blanca Deposit and now has a direct intrusive association which we believe increases the system’s potential. To date, all the of the holes drilled under the shallow pediment cover to the west of the Sierra Blanca Deposit have intersected thick zones of low-grade mineralization with several intervals of +1 g/t gold. These features could indicate potential for a large new deposit adjacent to the existing pit design (Figure 5).
Rhyolite Zone
The second phase of 2015 drilling produced a broad intercept from the Rhyolite Zone discovery northeast of the YellowJacket deposit (Table 7). The new high-grade intercept in hole NB-15-267 of 10.7m of 3.47 g/t Au and 3.6 g/t Ag is within a broad interval of moderate grade mineralization (210m of 0.47 g/t Au and 1.4 g/t Ag) and represents a new center of gold-silver mineralization immediately east of the YellowJacket deposit (Figure 5). Other surrounding high-grade gold intervals from the Rhyolite Zone include hole NB-13-352 (NR13-29, Oct.29, 2013) with 2.4m of 7.57 g/t Au and hole NB-14-392 (NR14-17, Sept.4, 2014) with 9.77m of 3.77 g/t Au. The Rhyolite Zone mineralization is localized along a major NE trending structure which appears to be related to the large NE structures along the west side of the Sierra Blanca deposit to the southwest where earlier 2015 drilling intercepted higher level stockwork type mineralization (NB-15-425 with 4.1m @ 1.3 g/t Au and hole NB-15-426 with 3.7m @ 1.3 g/t Au shown in Figure 5).
Table 4: 2015 Drill Results from NW Sierra Blanca Zone
(Reported drill intercepts are not true widths. At this time, there is insufficient data with respect to the shape of the mineralization to calculate its true orientation in space.)
Table 5: Previously Released NW Sierra Blanca/Rhyolite Zone Results
(Reported drill intercepts are not true widths. At this time, there is insufficient data with respect to the shape of the mineralization to calculate its true orientation in space.)
* Mineralized thickness calculated @ 0.10 g/t Au cutoff with internal vein/stockwork intervals calculated @ 1.0 g/t Au cutoff
Table 6. 2016 Drill Results from NW Sierra Blanca
(Reported drill intercepts are not true widths. At this time, there is insufficient data with respect to the shape of the mineralization to calculate its true orientation in space.)
Table 7: Initial Results from Rhyolite Zone
(Reported drill intercepts are not true widths. At this time, there is insufficient data with respect to the shape of the mineralization to calculate its true orientation in space.)
* Mineralized thickness is calculated on a 0.10 g/t Au cutoff with internal vein/stockwork intervals calculated using a 1.0 g/t Au cutoff
The Rhyolite Zone is centered on a NE-trending, moderate to steeply SE-dipping quartz vein/stockwork zone, hosted in a rhyolite intrusive body. The zone was intersected in 2014 by oriented core holes NB-14-352 and 392 at approximately the same elevation, and about 25 meters apart which confirmed NE-strike. New hole NB-15-267 tested this zone about 25 meters vertically below, confirming the dip angle and grade continuity. The zone is open along strike to the NE, SW and down-dip. With the confirmation of the Rhyolite Zone’s strike, dip and grade continuity, a new high-grade gold system is emerging marginal to the existing YellowJacket deposit. It is important to note is that this is the first time Corvus Gold has specifically targeted a NE vein zone in the YellowJacket area and the fact that it is now surrounded by a very broad lower grade zone suggests the system is becoming stronger along strike and down dip. This success has increased the potential for the other major NE structural zones that cross the YellowJacket deposit and extend to the east.
In January 2016, results were received for two drill holes drilled on the Rhyolite Zone (Table 8). NB-15-266 drilled near hole NB-15-267 had recovery problems through the zone and was not completed to planned depth. Although the hole experienced recovery problems it still returned encouraging grades, although not to the level of hole NB-15-267 (10.7m @ 3.47 g/t Au & 3.6 g/t Ag). Locations of the holes are shown in Figure 5 and 6.
NB-15-276 was a ~30 metres step out drill hole to the northeast. This step-out hole indicates the system is narrowing to the NE with gold grade dropping off and silver grade increasing in that direction (best hit 4.6m @ 10.6 g/t silver). These results are now vectoring future exploration to the SW along the main Rhyolite trend.
Table 8: 2016 Drill Results from the Rhyolite Zone
(Reported drill intercepts are not true widths. At this time, there is insufficient data with respect to the shape of the mineralization to calculate its true orientation in space.)
* Mineralized thickness calculated @ 0.10 g/t Au cutoff with internal vein/stockwork intervals calculated @ 1.0 g/t Au cutoff
North YellowJacket Extension Zone
Results were received for four holes drilled in the North YellowJacket extension target, 75 and 150 metres north of the currently defined deposit along a projected north-south splay of the vein system (Table 9). Results indicate the splay is mineralized in the first fence of holes (best hit NB15-272 - 1.5m @ 1.1 g/t gold and 75 g/t silver). Locations of the holes are shown in Figure 6. Results suggest the northern extension of the YellowJacket system could be displaced to the west towards Northwest Sierra Blanca.
Table 9: Drill Results from the North YellowJacket Extension Zone
(Reported drill intercepts are not true widths. At this time, there is insufficient data with respect to the shape of the mineralization to calculate its true orientation in space.)
* Mineralized thickness calculated @ 0.10 g/t Au cutoff with internal vein/stockwork intervals calculated @ 1.0 g/t Au cutoff
Savage Targets
Results were received for three holes drilled in the main Savage target immediately adjacent to the southern portion of the Sierra Blanca deposit in January 2016. Thick oxide zones of mineralization were identified and at a depth of ~350 metres in hole NB-15-273 a higher grade (3.1m @ 2.05 g/t gold and 178 g/t silver), copper rich zone was intersected with textures indicative of a higher temperature mineral system (Table 10). Locations of the holes are shown in Figure 6.
In addition to copper grades up to 0.2%, the intercepts had high antimony, tellurium and arsenic numbers, suggesting a possible porphyry/intrusive association. A review of the drill chips from NB-15-274 and NB-11-95 has confirmed the presence of multiple aphanitic-fine porphyritic dacite dikes, suggesting the presence of an intrusive center at depth beneath northern Savage Valley. All three holes at Savage also returned broad zones of low grade oxide mineralization.
Table 10: Drill Results from the Lower Savage Target
(Reported drill intercepts are not true widths. At this time, there is insufficient data with respect to the shape of the mineralization to calculate its true orientation in space.)
* Mineralized thickness calculated @ 0.10 g/t Au cutoff with internal vein/stockwork intervals calculated @ 1.0 g/t Au cutoff
Figure 6. Map showing the new Savage, Rhyolite and North YellowJacket drill holes
Swale Target
The new results from holes NB-16-304, 305 and 308 at the Swale target have now focused our exploration on the potential in this area and confirmed northern extension of the YellowJacket structural system. Hole NB-16-308 has intersected 3.1 metres @ 2.2 g/t gold & 3.5 g/t silver (Table 11) which is the northern extension of the structural zone encountered in hole NB-16-300 (18.3m @ 1.76 g/t gold). Mineralization in hole NB-16-308 continues to trend NW and is hosted in a dacite unit as opposed to the more favorable rhyolite unit in hole NB-16-300. This new drilling has extended the YellowJacket system approximately 250 metres northwest of the current YellowJacket resource.
In addition, the large rhyolite body intersected in holes NB-16-304 & 305 has retuned thick intervals of low-grade gold and silver and a number of zones with high levels of uranium and molybdenum (potentially of economic significance). This highly altered and broadly mineralized rhyolite body has emerged as an important host rock for structurally controlled, YellowJacket type vein and stockwork zones. A number of the remaining exploration holes with pending assays in the Swale target area have intersected parallel broad structural zones to the southwest and south of the zones hit in holes 300 and 308. This area is about 500 metres by 200 metres at the north and west end of the current YellowJacket resource. With the earlier results from the NE trending NWSB zone in hole NB-16-298 (23m @ 1.7 g/t gold) the Company is projecting a structural intersection of the two systems at the north end of the current pit design. This complexly faulted area forms an excellent mineralizing environment and will be a primary target of resource development drilling in the second phase of the 2016 program.
Black Vein - Liberator Target
Drill holes NB-16-303 (Table 11) was drilled to test the deep potential below earlier high-grade intersection returned from the Liberator structural zone in the Black Vein target area (NB-10-63 with 13.7m @ 5.9 g/t gold & 5.2 g/t silver and NB-12-126 with 5.7m @ 6.6 g/t gold & 9.9 g/t silver). Results from hole 303 intersected a very broad zone of gold mineralization within the target (154m @ 0.54 g/t gold). This very thick zone of gold mineralization and the shallower high-grade intersections appears to be associated with the large Liberator fault system which lies just east of the YellowJacket deposit. The Liberator structural zone has not been effectively explored in the past and is now emerging as an important target area immediately east of the current pit design. It is also possible that the previously discovered Rhyolite zone (10.7m @ 3.5 g/t gold) is in part related to the Liberator system which has a known strike length of over a kilometre. This emerging new YellowJacket type target will also be tested in the next phase of drilling.
Scout drilling was completed to test the depth potential of the Liberator zone and to test a wildcat vein target in the cloud 9 area. Hole NB-16-306 was drilled about 100 meters east of the Black Vein target and intersected a broad low-grade interval deep along the Liberator fault (~400m below surface). This mineralization indicates the Liberator gold system is extensive. Hole NB-16-307 tested the Cloud 9 target, a banded quartz vein outcropping along the West Jolly Jane fault about 800 meters east of Black Vein but failed to return any significant gold or silver values.
Figure 7. Initial 2016 North Bullfrog drill holes at NW Sierra Blanca and Swale targets.
Table 11: Drill Results from the Swale & Black Vein Liberator Targets
(Reported drill intercepts are not true widths. At this time, there is insufficient data with respect to the shape of the mineralization to calculate its true orientation in space.)
* Mineralized thickness calculated @ 0.10 g/t Au cutoff with internal vein/stockwork intervals calculated @ 0.5 g/t Au cutoff
Lower Savage and West Jolly Jane Target
The Lower Savage target is a unique new discovery that could have an impact on the gold and silver potential of the North Bullfrog District (Figure 8). Mineralization intersected near the bottom of Savage hole NB-15-273 (NR16-03, January 26, 2016) with 3.1m @ 2.05 g/t Au and 178 g/t Ag, the deepest drilled at North Bullfrog, is characteristic of a hotter and more intrusion related gold-silver system which could be the source of mineralization for the overlying Sierra Blanca-YellowJacket deposit. This mineralization which lies about 100 metres below the current deposit is high in silver with significant copper (up to 0.2%). The mineralized zone appears to be a splay off of the West Jolly Jane listric fault, a structural system that is related to large scale movement at low angles and is similar to the structural environment that hosts the historic Bullfrog deposit located 10 kilometres to the south. The initial follow-up drilling on this new discovery will test the north and south extension of the zone and if positive will be followed with oriented core drilling of the zone.
The West Jolly Jane structural zone intersected in the Lower Savage target come to surface in the North Jolly Jane area and recent exploration along this zone has identified outcropping banded quartz-carbonate veins up to a kilometre to the north of the northern most drilling (over 1.5 km to the north of the Jolly Jane Deposit). This structural zone remains essentially untested. Two or three scout holes will be drilled on this structural zone in the first phase to assess its potential to host YellowJacket/Bullfrog type vein systems.
Figure 8: Lower Savage Target area.
Jolly Jane North Target
One hole was drilled at the Jolly Jane North target about 80 metres north of previous Corvus hole NB-12-123 (139m @ 0.27 g/t Au, Table 12). The hole, NB-15-283, is located 450 metres north of the Jolly Jane resource (Figure 9). NB-15-283 intersected a broad zone of low-grade dominantly oxide mineralization (104m @ 0.23 g/t gold and 0.6 g/t silver) within the Sierra Blanca Tuff in the footwall of the West Jolly Jane Fault (“WJJF”). The WJJF is a large displacement fault zone similar to the MP Fault which hosts the main historic Bullfrog deposit and also similar to the YellowJacket fault zone. The Sierra Blanca/YellowJacket deposit lies about a kilometre to the west in the hanging-wall of the WJJF which appears to be a major mineralizing fluid conduit. The WJJF is a mineral system of similar size to the current Sierra Blanca/YellowJacket deposit with unconstrained potential to the north under post-mineral cover. NB-15-283 has confirmed the potential to expand the Jolly Jane low-grade deposit to the north.
Figure 9. Northwestern Resource Area map showing 2015 North Jolly Jane drill hole location.
Table 12: Initial Results from North Jolly Janel Target
(Reported drill intercepts are not true widths. At this time, there is insufficient data with respect to the shape of the mineralization to calculate its true orientation in space.)
East Bullfrog
In September positive results were returned from the initial two scout drill holes in the new Alunite Hill target within the previously untested East Bullfrog area. Results from these holes intersected multiple zones of low-grade gold and silver mineralization representing the first confirmation that gold-silver systems are present in this large untested target area (Table 13). Mineralization appears directly related to the large outcropping alteration system along a District scale NNW trending structural zone.
In addition, final results from an initial soil survey of the East Bullfrog structural belt returned a number of surface gold and silver anomalies which correlate with the large NNW structural zones, enhancing targeting for follow-up drilling (Figure 10).
Table 13: Initial Results from Alunite Hill Target
(Reported drill intercepts are not true widths. At this time, there is insufficient data with respect to the shape of the mineralization to calculate its true orientation in space.)
These initial drill results and the gridded soil sampling data were used as a basis to revise the East Bullfrog exploration plan, and a revised, and expanded Notice of Intent permit application was filed with the U.S. Department of the Interior, Bureau of Land Management (BLM) Tonopah Field Office and was approved in December, 2015.
Eastern Area Scout Drilling
Results from four scout holes drill in the Spicerite and North Spicerite targets have returned only minor low-grade gold intercepts. Holes NB-15-262, 263, 264 and 265 tested three structural zones in the south end of the East Bullfrog regional target area with negative results. Follow-up drilling in the East Bullfrog area focused on the newly emerging large targets at Vinegaroon and Cat Hill which have returned encouraging surface gold and silver anomalies.
Exploration drilling results from three additional new target areas at the North Bullfrog property in Nevada, which includes two targets in the new Eastern Steam-Heated Zone became available in February 2016. The initial scout drilling on these three new target areas has returned positive results with broad zones of low-grade gold-silver mineralization with some internal zones of +1 g/t gold.
These results have expanded the gold system in the North Bullfrog District and provided critical data for the planned 2016 follow-up exploration program.
Figure 10. East Bullfrog area gridded gold in soil map with hotter colors representing higher gold values.
Figure 11. Cat Hill map showing 2015 drill hole locations and select intercepts.
Cat Hill Target
Two holes (NB-15-284 & 285) were drilled in the Cat Hill target area. The Cat Hill target has a strong surface gold anomaly that is associated with large overlapping high and low sulfidation mineral systems (Figure 11). The target area lies adjacent to the large Road Fault structural zone which extends 10 kilometres to the south where it is called the Contact Fault, a major structural control to the historic Bullfrog deposit mined by Barrick Gold in the 1990’s. At Cat Hill, a series of N-S- to NNE-trending structures control alteration, gold mineralization and irregular qtz-calcite veins exhibiting boiling textures. The initial two holes at Cat Hill intersected broad zones of near surface, low-grade, oxide mineralization with one hole having two 1.5 metre, +1 g/t gold intercepts within targeted NNE-trending structural zones (Table 12). Targeting work is ongoing for a follow-up drill program this year.
Figure 12. Drill Hole location map of the Vinegaroon target area in the Eastern Steam Heated Zone.
Vinegaroon Target
A total of 7 holes (NB-15-286 to 292) were drilled on the Vinegaroon target. The Vinegaroon area lies ~2 kilometres east of Cat Hill, within the main Eastern Steam-heated Zone. As at Cat Hill, the Vinegaroon target has a surface gold anomaly associated with overlapping high and low sulfidation mineralization (Figure 12). A series of N-S- to NNW-trending structures control alteration and mineralization in this area. Five of the seven holes intercepted low grade gold mineralization along the large Vinegaroon fault zone. The alteration style is quartz-adularia-illite with local quartz stockwork including amethystine quartz, which is similar to the Sierra Blanca/YellowJacket deposits. The drill data (Table 14) is being evaluated for follow-up in 2016.
Table 14: Initial Drill Results from Cat Hill and Vinegaroon Targets
(Reported drill intercepts are not true widths. At this time, there is insufficient data with respect to the shape of the mineralization to calculate its true orientation in space.)
* Mineralized thickness calculated @ 0.10 g/t Au cutoff with internal vein/stockwork intervals calculated @ 1.0 g/t Au cutoff
Mineral Resource Estimates
North Bullfrog Project Resource Estimate
A mineral resource estimate for the NBP, effective as at June 16, 2015, has been prepared as part of the updated Technical Report. The basis for the mineral resource estimates at the NBP are geologic models developed by Corvus’ geologists. Geologic logs, alteration and geochemical data were used to define the mineralized zones, and were the limiting factor for gold distribution for the resource estimations. Both Ordinary Kriging and Inverse Distance calculations were used to develop block models of gold and silver mineralization at several cut-off grades (“COG”). The mineral resource is subdivided according to the specific processing requirements of the different types of mineralization, and consists of higher grade mineralization within the YellowJacket Zone, which would require mill circuit with gravity concentration and cyanide leaching of the concentrate and gravity tail, and lower grade, oxidized disseminated mineralization from the Sierra Blanca, Jolly Jane and Mayflower areas, which would be suitable for run-of-mine heap leach processing. The estimated mineral resource is summarized in Table 15, where it has been estimated as the portion of mineralization with reasonable prospects for extraction defined by Whittle® analysis of the resource block models. The Whittle® software defined an open pit mining shell at a gold price of US $1,200/oz, economic parameters typical of Nevada open pit mines and metallurgical recoveries indicated by NBP testing data received to date. The estimated mineral resource is defined by mineralization falling within the open pit mining shell which would be processed and is listed in Table 15.
Table 15: Measured, Indicated, and Inferred Mineral Resource Estimate for the North Bullfrog Project Defined by
Whittle TM pit volumes, including both the YellowJacket Vein/Stockwork and Disseminated Oxide Mineralization at $1,200 Gold Price
* - Analysis assumes a fixed ratio of the gold to silver prices of 73.7
**-Breakeven grade derived from Whittle input parameters at US$1,200/oz gold price and Gold:Silver price ratio of 73.7
***- See Cautionary Note to US Investors below
****-The Mineral Resources above are effective as of June 16, 2015.
*****-Mineral Resources that are not Mineral Reserves do not have demonstrated economic viability.
****** - Mr. Scott E. Wilson is the QP responsible for reviewing and approving the Mineral Resource Estimate contained herein.
Cautionary Note to US Investors: The terms Measured, Indicated Resource and Inferred Resource as described in Table 15 above are as defined in Canadian National Instrument 43-101. These terms are not defined under SEC Industry Guide 7 and are not recognized by the SEC. These estimated mineral resources are not SEC Industry Guide 7 proven and probable reserves. See “Cautionary Note to US Investors Regarding Mineral Reserve and Resource Estimates” above.
LMS Project
The LMS Project in central Alaska was sold for cash and a retained net smelter return (“NSR”) royalty, with final closing pending TSX approval. Cash from the transaction will be used to fund ongoing exploration and development of the North Bullfrog project in Nevada.
The LMS royalty interest will augment those established in 2015 and continue to provide our shareholders with exposure to future gold production at no cost as well as providing a funding stream for our ongoing Nevada exploration programs.
A summary of the sale transactions are listed below:
·Cash at closing: US $350,000 (~CAD $473,585 @ USD/CAD 1.3531 exchange rate).
·Corvus is granted a retained NSR royalty of 3% on precious metals and 1% on base metals with a 1% buy down of the precious metal royalty for USD $4M.
Chisna Project
The Chisna Project in southern Alaska was sold for cash and a retained net smelter return (“NSR”) royalty. Cash from the transaction will be used to fund ongoing exploration of the North Bullfrog project in Nevada.
The Chisna sale will augment the royalty portfolio established by the Company over the past 12 months. It is intended to provide shareholders with additional exposure to potential future gold discoveries and potential production at no cost as well as providing a funding stream for the ongoing Nevada exploration programs.
A summary of the sale transaction is listed below:
·Cash at closing: US $25,000 (~CAD $25,728 @ USD/CAD 1.0291 exchange rate)
·Corvus is granted a retained NSR royalty of 1% on precious metals and 1% on base metals
Qualified Person and Quality Control/Quality Assurance
Jeffrey A. Pontius (CPG 11044), a qualified person as defined by National Instrument 43-101, has supervised the preparation of the scientific and technical information that forms the basis for the NBP disclosure in this Annual Report on Form 10-K (other than the NBP mineral resource estimate) and has reviewed and approved the disclosure herein. Mr. Pontius is not independent of the Company, as he is the CEO and holds common shares and incentive stock options.
The exploration program at the NBP was supervised by Mark Reischman, Nevada Exploration Manager, who was responsible for all aspects of the work, including the quality control/quality assurance program. On-site personnel at the project log and track all samples prior to sealing and shipping. All sample shipments are sealed and shipped to ALS Minerals in Reno, Nevada, for preparation and then on to ALS Minerals in Reno, Nevada, or Vancouver, B.C., for assay. McClelland Laboratories Inc. prepared composites from duplicated RC sample splits collected during drilling. Bulk samples were sealed on site and delivered to McClelland Laboratories Inc. by ALS Minerals or Corvus personnel. All metallurgical testing reported here was conducted or managed by McClelland Laboratories Inc.
Mr. Scott E. Wilson, CPG, President of Metal Mining Consultants Inc., is an independent consulting geologist specializing in Mineral Reserve and Resource calculation reporting, mining project analysis and due diligence evaluations. He acted as the Qualified Person, as defined in NI 43-101, for the overall NBP Technical Report, and the Mineral Resource estimate. Mr. Wilson has over 26 years of experience in surface mining and is a Registered Member (#4025107RM) of Society for Mining, Metallurgy and Exploration, Inc. Mr. Wilson and Metal Mining Consultants, Inc. are independent of the Company under NI 43-101. Mr. Wilson has reviewed and approved the NBP Mineral Resource estimate contained herein.
Carl Brechtel (Colorado PE 23212 and Nevada PE 8744), a qualified person as defined by National Instrument 43-101, has supervised the NBP metallurgical testing program and has reviewed and approved the disclosure in this Annual Report on Form 10-K related thereto. Mr. Brechtel is not independent of the Company, as he is the Chief Operating Officer and holds common shares and incentive stock options.
ALS Minerals’ quality system complies with the requirements for the International Standards ISO 9001:2000 and ISO 17025:1999. Analytical accuracy and precision are monitored by the analysis of reagent blanks, reference material and replicate samples. Quality control is further assured by the use of international and in-house standards. Finally, representative blind duplicate samples are forwarded to ALS Minerals and an ISO compliant third party laboratory for additional quality control.
ITEM 3.