ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
North Bullfrog Project, Nevada
Our principal mineral property is the NBP (Figure 1), a gold exploration project located in northwestern Nye County, Nevada, in the Northern Bullfrog Hills (“NBH”) about 15 kilometres north of the town of Beatty. The NBP does not have any known proven or probable reserves under SEC Industry Guide 7 and the project is exploratory in nature. A NI 43-101 technical report entitled “Technical Report and Preliminary Economic Assessment for Combined Mill and Heap Leach Processing at the NBP Bullfrog Mining District, Nye County, Nevada” with an effective date of October 31, 2017, (the “Technical Report”) and prepared by Scott E. Wilson, C.P.G., SME, Stephen B. Batman, Mining Eng., SME and Christopher L. Easton, Consulting Metallurgist is available on SEDAR. The Technical Report is referred to herein for informational purposes only and is not incorporated herein by reference. The Technical Report contains disclosure regarding mineral resources that are not Guide 7 compliant proven or probable reserves, see “Cautionary Note to U.S. Investors Regarding Estimates of Measured, Indicated and Inferred Resources and Proven and Probable Reserves” above.
Property Description and Location
North Bullfrog Project
The NBP is located in the Bullfrog Hills of northwestern Nye County, Nevada. The NBP covers about 7,223 hectares of patented and unpatented mining claims in sections 20, 21, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 32, 33, 34, 35, and 36 of T10S, R46E; sections 1, 2, 11, 12, 13, and 14 of T11S, R46E; section 31 of T10S, R47E; and sections 6, 9, 15, 16, and 17 T11S, R47E, MDBM. We have a total of nine option/lease agreements in place that give us control of an aggregate of 51 patented lode mining claims. Corvus Nevada owns an additional 5 patented claims (the “Millman claims”) and a 430 acre property with 1600 acre-feet of water rights located north of NBP in the Sarcobatus hydrographic basin (Basin146).
Figure 1: Property Map showing the Location of the NBP and Mother Lode property, blue outline shows the NBP and the green outline shows the Mother Lode property
Title and Ownership
Redstar Gold Joint Venture and ITH Land Purchase
Redstar Gold Corp. (“Redstar”) originally staked 213 unpatented lode mining claims and optioned 21 patented lode mining claims from six private parties in 2006. ITH optioned the original NBP land package from Redstar in 2006, creating the NBPJV. ITH added 11 patented lode mining claims (the Mayflower property) to the NBPJV in 2007 under the Greenspun lease agreement. Redstar added 12 patented lode mining claims (the Connection and adjacent properties) to the NBPJV in 2008 under the lease agreement with Lunar Landing LLC. In August 2009 ITH purchased 100% interest in the NBPJV from Redstar by paying Redstar $250,000 and issuing 200,000 ITH common shares. These holdings were then transferred to Corvus during the spin out. Corvus completed an additional option lease agreement on two patented lode mining claims in the Jolly Jane area in March 2011. In May 2014, Corvus amended its existing lease agreement with Kolo Corp. to add the Yellow Rose and Yellow Rose No. 1 claims. In March 2015 Corvus added a second option lease agreement with Lunar Landing LLC, to lease the Sunflower, Sunflower No. 1 and Sunflower No. 2 claims for a total of nine option agreements on private land. Table 1 summarizes the obligations of the nine leases which are part of Corvus’ responsibilities on the Project.
Table 1: Summary of Lease Obligations that are part of the NBP
(1)Original title transferred from Hall to Wiley due to death in the family
(2)Plus 50,000 shares of ITH and 25,000 Common Shares
Corvus has added an additional 808 federal unpatented lode mining claims which were staked in 2012, and added an additional 57 federal unpatented lode mining claims which were staked in late 2014.
The Gregory, Hall, Kolo Corp., Milliken, Pritchard and Lunar Landing leases contain provisions for extension of the lease beyond the initial term, as long as active exploration or mining activities are maintained by the Company. The leases are now extended annually under this provision.
Gregory Property (North Pioneer Area) Notification of Extension Term
Pursuant to a mining lease made and entered into as of June 16, 2006 between Redstar and an arm’s length individual, Redstar has leased one patented mineral claims which form part of the North Bullfrog project holdings. The lease is for an initial term of 10 years, and for so long thereafter as mining activities continue on the claims or contiguous claims held by the lessee. The lessee is required to pay advance minimum royalty payments (recoupable from production royalties) of USD 2,000 on execution, USD 2,000 on each of June 16, 2007, 2008 and 2009, USD 3,000 on June 16, 2010 and each anniversary thereafter, adjusted for inflation. The lessor is entitled to receive a 2% NSR royalty on all production, which may be purchased by the lessee for USD 1,000,000 per 1% (USD 2,000,000 for the entire royalty).
Hall Property (Savage Valley Area)
Pursuant to a mining lease made and entered into as of May 22, 2006 between Redstar and two arm’s length individuals, Redstar has leased three patented mineral claims. The lease is for an initial term of 10 years, and for so long thereafter as mining activities continue on the claims or contiguous claims held by the lessee. The lessee is required to pay advance minimum royalty payments (recoupable from production royalties) of USD 8,000 on execution, USD 4,800 on each of May 22, 2007, 2008 and 2009, USD 7,200 on May 22, 2010 and each anniversary thereafter, adjusted for inflation. The lessor is entitled to receive a 2% NSR royalty on all production, which may be purchased by the lessee for USD 1,000,000 per 1% (USD 2,000,000 for the entire royalty).
Kolo Property (Jolly Jane Area)
Pursuant to a mining lease made and entered into as of May 8, 2006 between Redstar and an arm’s length private Nevada corporation, Redstar has leased two patented mining claims (Jolly Jane and ZuZu). The lease is for an initial term of 10 years, and for so long thereafter as mining activities continue on the claims or contiguous claims held by the lessee. The lessee is required to pay advance minimum royalty payments (recoupable from production royalties) of USD 2,000 on execution, USD 2,000 on each of May 8, 2007, 2008 and 2009, USD 3,000 on May 8, 2010 and each anniversary thereafter, adjusted for inflation. The lessor is entitled to receive a 3% NSR royalty on all production from the Jolly Jane and ZuZu claims, which may be purchased by the lessee for USD 850,000 per 1% (USD 2,550,000 for the entire royalty).
The Kolo lease agreement was amended on May 29, 2014 to add the Yellow Rose and Yellow Rose No. 1 patented claims to the agreement. The term remained the same, but the amended lease includes additional Advance Minimum Royalty payments of USD 2,400 per year for years one and two, increasing to USD 3,600 per year thereafter (adjusted for inflation) for the Yellow Rose claims. The Lessor is entitled to receive a 3% NSR royalty on all production from the Yellow Rose claims, which may be purchased by the lessee for USD 770,000 per 1% (USD 2,310,000 for the entire royalty).
Milliken Property (Pioneer Area)
Pursuant to a mining lease made and entered into as of May 8, 2006 between Redstar and two arm’s length individuals, Redstar has leased three patented mining claims. The lease is for an initial term of 10 years, and for so long thereafter as mining activities continue on the claims or contiguous claims held by the lessee. The lessee is required to pay advance minimum royalty payments (recoupable from production royalties) of USD 4,000 on execution, USD 3,500 on each of May 8, 2007, 2008 and 2009, USD 4,500 on May 8, 2010 and each anniversary thereafter, adjusted for inflation. The lessor is entitled to receive a 2% NSR royalty on all production, which may be purchased by the lessee for USD 1,000,000 per 1% (USD 2,000,000 for the entire royalty).
Prichard Property (Pioneer Area)
Pursuant to a mining lease made and entered into as of May 16, 2006 between Redstar and an arm’s length individual, Redstar has leased 12 patented mineral claims. The lease is for an initial term of 10 years, and for so long thereafter as mining activities continue on the claims or contiguous claims held by the lessee. The lessee is required to pay advance minimum royalty payments (recoupable from production royalties) of USD 20,500 on execution and USD 20,000 on each anniversary thereafter. The lessor is entitled to receive a 4% NSR royalty on all production, which may be purchased by the lessee for USD 1,000,000 per 1% (USD 4,000,000 for the entire royalty).
Lunar Property (Connection Area)
Pursuant to a mining lease and option to purchase agreement made effective October 27, 2008 between Redstar and an arm’s length limited liability company, Redstar has leased (and has the option to purchase) 12 patented mining claims. The ten-year, renewable mining lease requires advance minimum royalty payments (recoupable from production royalties, but not applicable to the purchase price if the option to purchase is exercised) of USD 10,800 on signing and annual payments for the first three anniversaries of USD 10,800 and USD 16,200 for every year thereafter. Redstar has an option to purchase the property (subject to the NSR royalty below) for USD 1,000,000 at any time during the life of the lease. Production is subject to a 4% NSR royalty, which may be purchased by the lessee for USD 1,250,000 per 1% (USD 5,000,000 for the entire royalty).
Lunar Property (Sunflower Area)
Pursuant to a mining lease and option to purchase agreement made effective March 30, 2015 between Corvus Nevada and an arm’s length limited liability company, Corvus Nevada has leased (and has the option to purchase) three patented mining claims. The three and a half year, renewable mining lease requires advance minimum royalty payments (recoupable from production royalties, but not applicable to the purchase price if the option to purchase is exercised) of USD 5,000 on signing and annual payments for the three anniversaries of USD 5,000. Corvus Nevada has an option to purchase the property (subject to the NSR royalty below) for USD 300,000 at any time during the life of the lease. Production is subject to a 4% NSR royalty, which may be purchased by the lessee for USD 500,000 per 1% (USD 2,000,000 for the entire royalty).
Sussman Property (Jolly Jane Area)
Pursuant to a mining lease and option to purchase made effective March 1, 2011 between Corvus Nevada and an arm’s length individual, Corvus Nevada has leased, and has the option to purchase, two patented mineral claims. The lease is for an initial term of 10 years, subject to extension for an additional 10 years (provided advance minimum royalties are timely paid), and for so long thereafter as mining activities continue on the claims. The lessee is required to pay advance minimum royalty payments (recoupable from production royalties, but not applicable to the purchase price if the option to purchase is exercised) of USD 20,000 on execution, USD 25,000 on each of March 1, 2012, 2013 and 2014, USD 30,000 on March 1, 2015 and each anniversary thereafter, adjusted for inflation. The lessor is entitled to receive a 2% NSR royalty on all production. The lessee may purchase the royalty for USD 1,000,000 per 1%. If the lessee purchases the entire royalty (USD 2,000,000) the lessee will also acquire all interest of the lessor in the subject property.
Greenspun Property (Mayflower Area)
ITH, through what is now Corvus Nevada, entered into a mining lease with an option to purchase with the Greenspun Group for 183 acres of patented lode mining claims that cover much of the Mayflower prospect. The Mayflower lease requires Corvus to make payments and complete work programs as outlined in Table 2. During the term of the lease any production from the Mayflower property is subject to a sliding scale royalty, also outlined in Table 2. Corvus has the right to purchase a 100% interest in the Mayflower property for $7.5 million plus a 0.5% NSR (if gold is less than $500) or 1.0% (if gold is above $500) at any time during the term of the lease (subject to escalation for inflation if the option is exercised after the 10th year of the lease). The annual property taxes to be paid by Corvus for the Mayflower property are $214. On February 11, 2015, the Mayflower mining lease with option to purchase was amended with the addition of an anti-dilution clause applying to the ITH shares and with an increase in the annual payment to include 25,000 Common Shares. On November 22, 2017, the term of the lease was extended for 10 additional years to December 7, 2027.
Table 2: Summary of the Material Terms of the Mayflower/Greenspun Group Lease
Millman Property
On February 21, 2013 Corvus Nevada signed a purchase agreement, which was subsequently closed on March 28, 2013, for the purchase of the surface rights only to five patented lode mining claims owned by Mr. and Mrs. Gordon Millman and located east of the Mayflower Property. This ground could be used for potential overburden storage from the Mayflower deposit as well as improving access to the Mayflower Property in general. Corvus Nevada purchased the surface rights for USD 160,000. Additionally, Corvus Nevada agreed to pay the Millmans a fee of US $0.02 per ton of any potential overburden storage subject to a minimum storage of 12 million short tons of material. The note for the storage fee of $240,000 was paid on December 17, 2015.
Sarcobatus Property
In December 2013, SoN Land and Water LLC, wholly owned by Corvus Nevada, completed the purchase of an 160 hectare fee simple parcel of land approximately 30 kilometres north of the NBP which carries with it 1,600 acre feet of irrigation water rights within the Sarcobatus Flats water basin. The cost of the land and associated water rights was USD 1,034,626. The Company has registered the purchase of water rights with the Nevada State Engineer (“NSE”) and made application to the NSE to temporarily change the use to mining on July 18, 2017. That change application is pending approval of NSE. On March 7, 2018 Corvus made application for temporary transfer of the extraction point for a portion of the water (80 acre feet) to the NBP. That change application is also pending approval. The water right requires annual renewal and that application, submitted on June 11, 2018, is pending approval.
Other property considerations
All of the unpatented lode mining claims are on U.S. public land administered by the BLM. These claims give Corvus the right to explore for and mine minerals, including gold and silver, subject to the necessary permits. The current exploration permits from BLM and NDEP allow Corvus surface access, maintenance of roads, drilling and sampling, and a defined amount of accompanying surface disturbance. The unpatented lode mining claims require payment of yearly maintenance fees to the BLM and Nye County (recording fees) of an aggregate of USD 144,459 (estimated for 2018). Annual property taxes to be paid by Corvus for some of the properties under the original six Redstar leases and subsequent leases are listed in Table 1.
The unpatented lode claims at the Mother Lode property will require payment of yearly maintenance fees to BLM and Nye County (recording fees) of an estimated USD 44,032 (estimated for 2018).
Current exploration activities are covered by a Plan of Operations (NVN-83002) with the BLM. Two exploration Plans of Operation are in place with the Nevada Department of Environmental Protection (“NDEP”) (NDEP#0280 private land and #0290 public land administered by the BLM) that fulfill the State of Nevada permitting obligations on private and public lands, respectively. Additional exploration activities are covered by three Notices of Intent (“NOI”) with the BLM. Those NOIs (N-9221, N-93906 and N-95622) have temporary terms renewable every two years, and currently extend to 2019. Reclamation bonds, related to environmental liabilities to which the Properties are subject, are in place to cover activities on the Properties. Corvus’ reclamation liabilities are covered by surety bonds issued by Lexon Insurance Company in the amount of USD 284,386 for 89.2 acres (excludes the NOI bonded obligations) of disturbance on public land with the BLM and USD 209,070 for 25.4 acres of disturbance on private land with NDEP.
Accessibility, Physiography, Climate and Infrastructure at NBP
The Properties are accessible by a two and one half hour (209 kilometres, 130 mile) drive north of Las Vegas, Nevada along US Highway 95. US Highway 95 is the major transportation route between Las Vegas, Nevada, Reno, Nevada and Boise Idaho. Las Vegas is serviced by a major international airport. The Properties lie immediately to the west and to the east of the highway. Beatty, Nevada is the closest town to the property with a population of about 1,100 and contains most basic services. The nearest major supply point that would support a major mining related activity is Las Vegas, Nevada about 160 kilometres to the southeast. There are several accessible old mine workings. Access around both Properties is by a series of reasonably good gravel and dirt roads that extend to most of the important exploration areas.
The Properties are in Western Nevada’s high desert, which receives about 15 centimetres of precipitation per year, mostly as modest snow fall in the winter and thunderstorms in the summer. The average daily temperature (°F) varies from a low of 40 (5 °C) in January to a high of 80 (27 °C) in July. The hills at the Properties are covered with sparse low brush including creosote, four-wing saltbush, rabbit brush and Nevada ephedra. The Properties are in the Basin and Range province, with the local topographic relief ranging from only a few hundred feet to 1000 feet. Most of the areas at the Properties are characterized by low hills separated by modest width valleys.
There are currently no other structures or infrastructure on the Properties. Major mining and construction equipment sales and service are readily available throughout Nevada; however, most major mining operations are located in the northern part of the state and are serviced from the cities of Reno and Elko. Human resources are readily available within the community of Beatty and historically provided a substantial portion of the workforce for the Bullfrog Mine, which operated between 1989 and 1998 as both an open pit and underground gold mining operation. Pahrump, approximately 110 kilometres to the southeast of Beatty, is a larger community with a population of 36,000. Pahrump is a local regional center, with a hospital and emergency medical services, a college campus with technical training for industrial support and expanded service sectors.
Electrical power is provided to the immediate area of both the NBP and Mother Lode Properties by the Valley Electric Association, Inc. (“VEA”), which is headquartered in Pahrump. A 135 kV line runs from the south to the Beatty substation, and a 25 kV line runs north from Beatty, NV along Highway 95. VEA began upgrading its existing electrical facilities, on the eastern portion of the NBP, in mid-2013. The upgrade has a separate circuit of 15 Mw capacity and will accommodate the presently anticipated future demand at NBP. The Company contributed USD 28,500 for the line upgrade. Two electrical feeder lines run west from the main line, one to the perimeter of the NBP to power an aggregate crushing plant operating in the southern portion of NBP and a second that traverses the NBP to power a centrally located microwave station and the Company’s weather station which has been installed on Corvus controlled patented mining claims near Mayflower. A feeder line currently runs from US Highway 95 up Fluorspar Canyon to a communications installation in the Bare Mountains above Mother Lode. We anticipate that adequate power will be available for all proposed future mining operations at both Properties.
Water resources for a mining project at NBP must be obtained from the ground water. There appears to be sufficient resources in the ground water basins at the NBP, and the Company has registered the water rights purchased in Sarcobatus with the NSE. The Company will make application to convert the water rights to a temporary mining use, and to transfer the point of extraction to the NBP. Water wells, booster stations, and pipelines would be developed to provide water to the mine, process facilities, and ancillary structures. The current plan would be to drill several wells northwest of the heap leach pad and install a fresh water line from the well fields to the process plant. The first phase of the hydrologic characterization program was completed during the 2013 drill program, which successfully identified a potential water production well site in the Sarcobatus Flats (Nevada State Water Basin 146) within the northwest portion of the NBP.
Geology and Mineralization
Geology
The NBP is within the Walker Lane structural province and the Southwestern Nevada Volcanic Field (“SWNVF”). The Project lies approximately ten kilometres west of the western margin of the middle Miocene Timber Mountain caldera complex of the SWNVF and many of the volcanic units exposed on the NBP originated from the caldera complex. However, it appears that many of the most important host rocks to the mineralization are locally derived from what is now known as the NBH Volcanic Complex (“NBVC”) and are slightly older than the main ash flows erupted from the Timber Mountain Caldera. The region is underlain by Paleozoic sedimentary rocks which are the basement for the mid-Miocene tuffs and related rocks that are the hosts for most of the mineralization in the Bullfrog mining district. The region was subjected to extensional faulting which was contemporaneous with volcanism and localized sedimentary basins filled with reworked volcanic and basement debris developed as a result. Multiple episodes of extension have been documented. Most of the major fault zones have northerly strikes with normal displacement to the west. However, hanging wall antithetic faults are also present. Some of the major faults are interpreted to have listric shapes, similar to the main mineralizing fault at the Bullfrog mine, and likely sole into a district-scale detachment fault at depth. During younger periods of extension many of the older faults in the hanging walls of these listric structures have experienced significant rotation. Figure 2 is a geologic map of NBP showing target exploration and resource areas:
Figure 2: Geologic Map of NBP Showing Target and Resource Areas and Legend of Geologic Symbols
The NBH is underlain by pre-Tertiary basement rocks consisting of Precambrian to Cambrian sedimentary rocks of the Wood Canyon, Zabriskie and Carrara Formations. The basement rocks are exposed on the property in two prominent erosional windows. The pre-Tertiary windows are remnants of a basement structural high of significant relief upon which the Tertiary rocks were deposited. The basement rocks are overlain by a sequence of Miocene volcanic and lesser sedimentary rocks of the SWNVF.
The lowermost Tertiary rocks are known as the Jolly Jane Formation and consist of a basal conglomerate overlain by a sequence of heterogeneous sedimentary rocks including mudstone, siltstone and sandstone. The basal conglomerate is a time transgressive surface lag deposit which generally contains abundant clasts of pre-Tertiary basement rocks. The type locality for this unit is known from drilling in the Jolly Jane area and consists of up to 50 metres of heterogeneous sediments which appear to have been accumulated in a structural basin prior to and during the onset of volcanism. Sandstone, silt, shale and calcareous sediments are present with both black organic-rich and hematitic intervals also present. It is common to see tuffaceous sediments in the upper portions of the sand and shale sequences. The thickness and composition of the Jolly Jane Formation is highly variable, and is interpreted to have been deposited on a Tertiary erosional unconformity of significant relief.
The Jolly Jane Formation is overlain by the Savage Formation which consists of locally-sourced lava domes, flows and associated intrusive rocks of dacitic to rhyolitic composition. The Savage Formation also includes intercalated volcaniclastic intervals (re-worked dacite) and locally carbonaceous sediments. It is rather heterogeneous in terms of the thickness and the areal distribution of individual domes, flows and epiclastic intervals. The Savage Formation is only locally mineralized.
The Pioneer Formation rhyolitic pyroclastics overlie the Savage Formation dacites. The Pioneer Formation ranges from 10 to more than 200 metres in thickness and consists of monotonous lithic lapilli tuffs. In the northern parts of the NBP these tuffs are mixed with rhyolite domes of uncertain origin, however, dating shows that the tuffs and rhyolites are essentially the same age. Epiclastic sediments found at the top of the Pioneer Formation suggest that an angular unconformity is developed between this sequence and the overlying Sierra Blanca Tuff. The Pioneer Formation is extensively altered and hosts a large portion of the disseminated gold mineralization.
The Sierra Blanca Tuff is a large rhyolitic ash flow tuff that blankets the NBP. Unlike the preceding units, which appear to have been locally derived, the Sierra Blanca Tuff probably represents a regional ash flow eruption that came from outside the NBP. The Sierra Blanca Tuff varies in thickness from <70 metres at Jolly Jane to >160 metres at North Sierra Blanca. The tuff consists of a single cooling unit and is densely welded. The densely welded nature makes the rock brittle and, as a consequence, it is the most important host for both disseminated and vein style mineralization at the NBP.
Following the deposition of the Sierra Blanca Tuff, local volcanism continued with the deposition of the Savage Dacite, another locally-sourced sequence of lava domes, flows, pyroclastics and epiclastics of primarily dacitic composition. The Savage Dacite varies greatly in both thickness and composition, characterized by alternating eruptive cycles of geochemically different dacitic magmas. The Savage Dacite is only mineralized where it is in contact with significant fault structures.
Zircon dating shows that the entire sequence from Pioneer Formation through the Savage Dacite was deposited between 16.1Ma and 14.4Ma, making it among the oldest volcanic in the region.
The 13.5Ma Crater Flat Tuff, which consists of two regionally extensive ash flow cooling units, appears to overlie the Savage Dacite at both Savage Valley and Jolly Jane but the contact is not exposed at the surface. The Crater Flat Tuffs are extensively altered at both YellowJacket and Jolly Jane but no significant mineralization has yet been identified in these units.
The Rainbow Mountain Sequence is the most heterogeneous unit of the NBH. It consists of intercalated sequences of heterolithic and monolithic sedimentary debris flow breccias, large slide bocks derived from local volcanic and sedimentary units, as well as rhyolitic ash flows and rhyolite domes. The debris flow breccias are bedded but poorly sorted, consisting of sand - to large boulder-size clasts of predominantly volcanic rocks. Both gravity sliding and fluvial processes appear to have played a role in deposition. The volcanic debris is derived from many of the SWNVF units that are preserved as tabular ash flow tuff sheets elsewhere in the Bullfrog Hills. These include the Crater Flat Group, the Paintbrush Group and the Timber Mountain Group tuffs. The debris flow breccia deposits are largely the result of the re-working of the SWNVF units via gravity sliding and alluvial fan development around fault-bounded basement structural highs. The Debris Flow Breccia sequence represents a period of dynamic extensional faulting, scarp development and mass wasting. Massive, relatively intact blocks of monolithic breccias are interpreted as landslide megabreccia deposits that were shed off local fault scarps. Gold mineralization at Mayflower and Connection is hosted in the Rainbow Mountain Sequence. The thickness of this unit exceeds 300 metres in the Mayflower area.
Mineralization
All of the mineralization at NBP can be classified as low-sulphidation epithermal mineralization. There are at least two and possibly three distinct periods of mineralization present. Older mineralization, before 11.2 Ma, is observed at the Sierra Blanca and Jolly Jane mineral resource areas. A younger mineralization, 10 Ma, occurs at the Mayflower mineral resource area.
In both mineralization periods, there are two styles of low suphidation gold/silver mineralization; (1) high-grade, fault controlled fissure veins, vein breccias and stockworks (Mayflower, Liberator, YellowJacket, Liberty and others), and (2) low-grade disseminated replacement deposits (Sierra Blanca, Jolly Jane and Mayflower). The low-grade, disseminated mineralization is currently the more abundant type at NBP.
1)Sierra Blanca Mineralization
Mineralization at Sierra Blanca can be classified into six different styles:
•Disseminated gold mineralization associated with pervasive silica adularia and sulphidation of iron (ubiquitous at Sierra Blanca );
•Gold associated with fault controlled suphidation (NE30, NE50, NE60 Faults);
•Gold associated with quartz veining;
•Continuous quartz vein and associated stockworks (Josh vein at YellowJacket);
•Localized quartz veins and stockworks (numerous zones); or
•Sulphide veining with gold and tellurium mineralization (Air Track Hill).
Pervasive disseminated mineralization occurs in the Pioneer Formation and Sierra Blanca Tuff over virtually the entire area at Sierra Blanca at 0.2-0.3 g/t gold grade. Oxidation of this mineralization extends locally to 200 metres and is associated with good cyanide leach metallurgical recovery. Fault hosted mineralization has been encountered in numerous locations (NS10, E30, NE40, NE50, NE60 and Savage Faults) with consistently higher gold grade (1-17 g/t) than the disseminated mineralization. Where oxidized, the fault zones respond well to cyanide leaching.
Quartz vein and stockwork mineralization occurs primarily in the YellowJacket deposit, a generally NW striking structural corridor along the eastern side of Sierra Blanca. The gold-bearing quartz vein and stockwork zones are generally gray translucent quartz with native gold and electrum, and varying amounts of acanthite or other silver sulphosalts. Metallurgical testing indicates the potential for high gold and silver recovery with cyanide leaching, both above and below the oxidation horizon.
The pervasive disseminated mineralization at Sierra Blanca and the Josh vein and stockwork mineralization at YellowJacket comprise approximately 84% of the gold resource at NBP.
2)Jolly Jane Mineralization
Jolly Jane is located in the middle of NBP and virtually all of the geological elements common to NBP are found there. Disseminated mineralization occurs within the Sierra Blanc Tuff, which is thinner, approximately 70 metres as compared to a thickness of >160 metres at Sierra Blanca. The mineralized Sierra Blanca Tuff is preserved a horst between the West Jolly Jane Fault and the East Jolly Jane Fault. Gold grade is similar to Sierra Blanca disseminated mineralization with slightly lower cyanide leach recovery.
3)Mayflower Mineralization
Younger, fracture controlled deposits at Mayflower and Pioneer were historically mined. The Mayflower Mine developed on a calcite vein and stockwork zone along a NW striking, steeply SW-dipping fault zone in silica-adularia-altered heterolithioc debris flow breccia in the Rainbow Mountain Sequence. Multiple high-grade gold areas have been identified, surrounded by low-grade mineralization. Mayflower mineralization is typically 0. 4-0.5 g/t and is well oxidized with good cyanide leach recovery.
Historical Exploration Work
The NBP is in the Bullfrog Mining District. Gold was discovered at what was to become the original Bullfrog mine by Frank “Shorty” Harris and Ernest Cross on August 9, 1904. Two periods of mining activity account for the majority of production from the District. It is reported that 111,805 ounces of gold and 868,749 ounces of silver were produced between 1905 and 1921, after which there was little production until the 1980s. In early 1982 geologists from St. Joe Minerals Corporation became interested in the District. They conducted extensive exploration in the area of the Montgomery-Shoshone and Senator Stewart mines, resulting in the discovery of the Bullfrog deposit in mid-1986. Several company acquisitions resulted in Barrick Gold Corporation (“Barrick”) being the final owner of the mine. The Bullfrog mine produced gold and silver from three separate deposits including: 1) main Bullfrog (open pit and underground); 2) Montgomery-Shoshone (open pit); and 3) Bonanza Mountain (open pit). Between 1989 and 1999, it is reported that the Bullfrog mine produced 2.31 Moz of gold and 3.0 Moz of silver.
The early history of the NBP is comingled with the greater Bullfrog Mining District. The Pioneer and Mayflower were the principal mines in the northern part of the district. The Pioneer mine was most active between 1909 and 1926 with about 15,000 feet of underground workings, all being developed within 330-feet of the surface. There are no accurate production figures, but limited records suggest that head grades were about one quarter ounce of gold per ton. The Mayflower mine was probably active during the same time, but again there are no reliable production records. Underground development at Sierra Blanca, Jolly Jane, Savage Valley, and YellowJacket also attest to historic mining and production, probably during the same period.
Modern exploration started in the early 1970s and consisted of a number of companies with focuses on different parts of the property. These programs consisted of a variety of activities including surface mapping and sampling, underground mapping and sampling, and drilling.
Between the early 1970s and the end of the Barrick exploration in the mid-1990s, approximately 249 rotary and reverse-circulation drill holes were drilled on the NBP.
With the downturn in gold price at the start of the 21st Century, interest in the NBP was essentially nonexistent. Redstar became attracted to the North Bullfrog area in late 2005, and started staking claims and acquiring leases on patented mining claims. In March 2007, Redstar granted ITH the right to earn an interest in the NBP and thereafter formed the NBPJV. In December 2007 ITH completed a lease of the Mayflower property, which was included in the NBPJV. Following the execution of the NBPJV agreement, ITH commenced active exploration on the NBP. In October 2008, Redstar completed a lease of the Connection property, which was also included in the NBPJV. On August 4, 2009, ITH purchased Redstar’s interests in the NBP and continued the exploration program as sole owner/lessor. On August 26, 2010, ITH spun out Corvus as a separate public company in a transaction which resulted in Corvus owning Corvus Nevada, through which all interest in the NBP was held, thus resulting in Corvus indirectly acquiring all of the interest in and responsibilities for the NBP.
Updated NBP Mineral Resources
Corvus announced an updated mineral resource estimation incorporating all drill results through to 2017 at the Company’s 100% owned NBP. The updated mineral resource estimation utilizes a two-phase approach. “Phase I” is an early stage, higher grade mix of predominantly oxide mill processing and oxide heap leach processing while “Phase II” includes mainly heap leach mineralization. The mineral resources estimates (Measured, Indicated and Inferred) are based on economic constraints using Whittle TM software (see Table 3) and assume open pit mining and a gold price of USD 1,250 per ounce and a silver price of USD 16.50 per ounce. Figure 3 shows the locations of the projected open pits at the NBP and displays the mineralization areas in the defined Phase I & II.
Figure 3: Locations of pit constrained, Phase I & II NBP Resources
The new mineral resource estimation reflects the benefits of the drilling conducted during 2016 and 2017, which expanded and improved the definition of the YellowJacket vein/stockwork zone, allowing the mine plan to deliver higher average grade mineralization from the YellowJacket zone in Phase I with high gold and silver recoveries. This new mineral resource has been estimated in accordance with NI 43-101 using a gold price of USD 1,250 per ounce and silver price of USD 16.50 per ounce. The mineral resources are tabulated for Phase I, Phase II and total mineral resources in Tables 3, 4 and 5, where they are also subdivided by mill or heap leach process.
Table 3
Phase I, Measured, Indicated, and Inferred Mineral Resource Estimations for the NBP constrained by Whittle TM pit volumes, including both the YellowJacket Vein/Stockwork and Disseminated Oxide Mineralization at a gold price of USD 1,250 per ounce and a silver price of USD 16.50 per ounce
*See Cautionary Note to US Investors below
**The mineral resources above are effective as of October 31, 2017
***Mineral Resources that are not mineral reserves do not have demonstrated economic viability
****Includes Sulfide mineral resources discussed below
Table 4
Phase II, Measured, Indicated, and Inferred Mineral Resource Estimate for the NBP constrained by Whittle TM pit volumes, including both the YellowJacket Vein/Stockwork and Disseminated Oxide Mineralization at a gold price of USD 1,250 per ounce and a silver price of USD 16.50 per ounce
*See Cautionary Note to US Investors below
**The mineral resources above are effective as of October 31, 2017
***Mineral Resources that are not mineral reserves do not have demonstrated economic viability
****Includes Sulfide mineral resources discussed below
Table 5
Measured, Indicated, and Inferred Total Mineral Resource Estimate for the NBP constrained by Whittle TM pit volumes, including both the YellowJacket Vein/Stockwork and Disseminated Oxide Mineralization at a gold price of USD 1,250 per ounce and a silver price of USD 16.50 per ounce
*See Cautionary Note to US Investors below
**The mineral resources above are effective as of October 31, 2017
***Mineral Resources that are not mineral reserves do not have demonstrated economic viability
****Includes Sulfide mineral resources discussed below
Cautionary Note to US Investors: The terms measured resource, indicated resource and inferred resource as described in Tables 3, 4 and 5 above are as defined in NI 43-101. These terms are not defined under SEC Industry Guide 7 and are not recognized by the SEC. These estimated mineral resources are not SEC Industry Guide 7 proven and probable reserves. See “Cautionary Note to US Investors Regarding Mineral Reserve and Resource Estimates” above.
The mineral resource estimation is based on 766 drill holes with 27,729 gold composites. Geologic volumes were defined by geologic interpretations and used to constrain the estimation. Heap leach resources were estimated by Ordinary Kriging. The YellowJacket vein and stockworks were estimated using Inverse Distance estimations. To estimate the reasonable prospects of eventual economic extraction, Metal Mining Consultants Inc. confined the resources to mining volumes defined by WhittleTM analysis using the input parameters defined in Table 6. There are no known legal, political or environmental risks that could materially affect the potential development of the mineral resources.
Table 6
WhittleTM Input Parameters used for the NBP Mineral Resource Estimation
1 assumes heap leach processing of disseminated mineralization
2 assumes Gravity - CIL mill processing of YellowJacket mineralization
3 assumes Ambient Atmospheric Oxidation mill processing of Sulfide mineralization
4 break-even grade derived from Whittle input parameters at USD 1,250 per ounce gold price, and USD 16.50 per ounce silver price
Sulfide Mineral Resource
Sulfide mineral resources have been added to the NBP mineral resources based on previously identified materials that lie within the YellowJacket zone and 2017 drilling in the Swale and Liberator areas. The majority of the identified sulfide mineralization is along the YellowJacket zone and was previously identified as waste material. Metallurgical test work on sulfide mineralization from the Sierra Blanca, Pioneer Tuff, Rhyolite and Dacite rock types in the YellowJacket area indicate high gold and silver recoveries possible using flotation to produce a concentrate, fine grinding of the concentrate, oxidation of the concentrate using the AAO method followed by cyanide leaching of the resulting filter cake. Gold recoveries with this processing approach ranged between 87% and 94% as indicated in Table 7, which lists the gold recovery to the concentrate, the concentration ratio and the overall gold recovery from the testing (NR 17-9, June 21, 2017). Both Soda Ash and Trona were used in the tests as the neutralizing agent and the tests were conducted by Hazen Research Inc., based in Golden, Colorado.
Table 7
NBP Concentrate AAO Testing
The sulfide mineral resources within the WhittleTM pit shells have been included in the Mill mineral resource tables presented earlier. Operating costs and gold recoveries have been developed for use in the WhittleTM analysis and are included in Table 6. The breakdown of the Sulfide mineral resource is listed in Tables 3, 4 and 5.
NBP Project Development Activities
Monitoring programs to develop baseline characterization data for support of future permitting activities continued during the period. Water quality monitoring wells and surface springs were sampled in November 2017, March 2018, and June 2018.
The Company operates a meteorological monitoring station at NBP and submitted its quarterly report to NDEP in April 2018.
Planned NBP Exploration Work 2018-2019
Currently no work on the NBP is planned for the coming fiscal year.
Mother Lode Property, Nevada
The Company has acquired a satellite property, the Mother Lode property (Figure 1 above), which is located immediately east of Beatty, Nevada, in Nye County. The Mother Lode property is in the Bare Mountain District, and was previously mined by Glamis Gold Ltd. as part of the Daisy Project. The Company acquired the 13 Federal mining claims comprising the Mother Lode property from Goldcorp USA, Inc. on June 9, 2017. The Company has also staked an additional 398 claims (the MN claim group) to the northwest of the Mother Lode claims and an additional 22 claims (the ME claim group) to the east of the Mother Lode claims.
With the acquisition of the Mother Lode property, the Company initiated an exploration program to verify historic results and evaluate the resource expansion potential of the asset. The Company does not currently consider the Mother Lode property to be a material property to the Company. The Mother Lode property does not have any known mineral reserves or mineral resources, as defined under NI 43-101, or proven or probable reserves under SEC Industry Guide 7 and is exploratory in nature.
The Mother Lode property is located in Nye County, Nevada in the Bare Mountain District, south and east of the community of Beatty, Nevada. The Mother Lode property consists of 205 unpatented Federal mining claims covering about 1,633 hectares in Sections 35 and 36 of T11S, R47E, Sections 1, 2, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 15, 16, and 17 of T12S, R47E and Sections 6, 7, 8, 9, 16, 17 and 18 of T12S, R48E, MDBM.
Figure 4: Property Map showing the Mother Lode claim blocks, green outlines show the Federal claim block boundaries
The Mother Lode claim group covers approximately 107 hectare and contains a historic (non-NI-43-101 compliant) resource of 8.5Mt at a grade of 1.6 g/t gold totaling 430,000 oz. of gold. In addition, Corvus Gold Nevada Inc. staked two additional claim blocks adjacent to the Mother Lode claim group totaling 1526 hectares, covering areas of exploration and development potential. The Mother Lode property is in close proximity to Corvus Gold’s NBP with potential as a large satellite operation. The historic estimates for the Mother Lode property contained herein should not be relied upon. The source of these historic estimates is Inter-Rock Gold Inc. Annual Report 1996. These estimates are not NI-43-101 compliant. While Corvus considers these historical estimates to be relevant to investors as it may indicate the presence of mineralization, a qualified person for Corvus has not done sufficient work to classify the historical estimates as current mineral resources as defined by NI 43-101 and Corvus is not treating these historical estimates as a current mineral resource or mineral reserve.
Terms of the transaction with Goldcorp Inc. include:
•Issuance of 1,000,000 Common Shares at $0.81 per share
The Mother Lode property has an existing 1% NSR on production from the Mother Lode property as well as an additional 1% NSR when gold price is over USD $1,400/ ounce.
The Mother Lode deposit is similar in age to the historic Bullfrog Mine and the newly discovered NBP, and is hosted in both Tertiary volcanic-sedimentary rocks and Paleozoic sedimentary rocks. The mineralization at the Mother Lode property occurs as low angle, north dipping, near surface, tabular bodies of mixed sulfide and oxide mineralization. Key structural controls in the deposit appear to be a series of north northwest high angle structures which have acted as conduits for mineralizing fluids (similar to the YellowJacket deposit at North Bullfrog). An important untested target for additional high-grade mineralization is the intersection of the major, low angle east-northeast trending Fluorspar Canyon Fault Zone and the high-angle N-NW trending feeder structures approximately 50 metres below the existing Mother Lode deposit.
The Mother Lode deposit was mined in the late 1980s when gold price was about $400/ounce. Fluctuating and depressed gold prices caused the operation to close in 1989 after less than three years and producing just 34,000 ounces of gold. Nearly all of the 172 development and exploration drill holes on the property were drilled vertically and are less than 200 metres deep. This vertical drilling pattern was not optimal for defining the steeply dipping, high-grade structural systems, although some did intersect a couple of these zones (ML-086: 24m @ 4.4g/t Au; D-442: 24m @ 5.1g/t Au; D-445: 18m @ 7.4g/t). The current deposit has three defined tabular bodies that are all currently open for expansion down dip and to the west.
Corvus geologists and engineers have reviewed the extensive digital and hard copy database to provide exploration targets. The Company began its Phase I, Mother Lode property drill program which utilized up to three drill rigs (two reverse circulation and one core), in September 2017. The initial program completed 13,000 metres of drilling and focused on confirming the existing 172-hole database consisting of drilling results developed by previous exploration companies and mine operators at the Mother Lode site. The initial program addressed resource expansion and exploration targets in four main zones of historic mineralization. Phase II of the Mother Lode drilling program began in early January 2018 with a single reverse circulation (“RC”) drilling rig.
The drilling results to date, have begun to verify and supplement the historic drill data, and are delineating mineralization into two zones (an upper and lower zone). Preliminary results for 52 holes have been released between October 11, 2017 and April 5, 2018, consisting of intervals in each hole with significant gold mineralization. Results for holes ML17-001 to -015 were reported in NR17-13 (October 11, 2017), NR17-15 (October 25, 2017), NR17-17 (November 7, 2017) and NR17-19 (December 12, 2017). Significant drilling results for holes ML17-001 to -042 and ML18-043 to -067, for which preliminary results have become available in 2018. Refer to news releases NR18-1 (January 10, 2018), NR18-2 (January 18, 2018), NR18-3 (February 1, 2018), NR18-5 (February 22, 2018), NR18-6 (March 1, 2018), NR18-7 (March 22, 2018), NR18-8 (April 5, 2018), NR18-9 (April 25, 2018), NR18-10 (May 24, 2018), and NR18-12 (June 13, 2018) for information on assay results, data verification, drilling parameters and locations of the drill holes. Figure 5 shows the location of holes ML17-001 to -042 and ML18-043 to -067 with respect to the Mother Lode open pit and the Mother Lode claim boundaries, and Figure 6 shows and expanded view of drill holes in the core area of the mineralization. These drill holes have confirmed the presence of a thick central zone of mineralization with continuity along strike. Step out drilling to west and east of the main zone have now indicated the potential of extensions of the mineralization in both directions, and a new target, called Flatiron (Figure 7) has been identified in the west portion of the Mother Lode claims.
Figure 5: Map showing the locations of Phase I and II boreholes with preliminary results reported between October 11, 2017 and June 13, 2018 with respect to the Mother Lode claim boundaries and the Mother Lode open pit.
Western Extension, Flatiron and Northeast Areas at Mother Lode- Scout Holes
The three holes returned (ML18-059 to 061) continue to outline the expansion of the Mother Lode gold system and confirm the western trend of the deposit along the main intrusive dike trend. As with earlier holes in the Western extension, the deposit is becoming dominantly oxide to the west with a continuation of the thick higher-grade zones from the main deposit. Deep oxide mineralization in these holes commonly continues to the end of the holes with additional potential to expand the deposit with deeper drilling (ML18-061 12.2m @ 1.13 g/t gold to the bottom of the hole). An additional 15 holes will be completed in the Western zone over the next two months prior to the initial resource estimate which is expected in September.
The final hole from the initial Flatiron scout drilling (Figure 5) was returned and continued to show leakage type oxide gold mineralization along the western extension of the Fluorspar Canyon Fault (FCF) toward the Secret Pass open pit deposit southwest of Mother Lode. The interval has moderate grade gold (4.6m @ 0.76 g/t gold) hosted in jasperoid and carbonates within and below the FCF with a strong trace element signature. Higher grades in the fault (3.1m @ 1.51 g/t gold) correlate with similar grades up dip to the south. The current interpretation is the large silicified body at Flatiron and fault related gold mineralization in the scout holes represents a distal expression of the main Mother Lode gold system to the east and bodes well for the western extension of the main deposit.
The initial results from the northeast scout holes are initially indicating the mineralization begins to diminish as it moves to the northeast and away from the main north-northwest axis of the orebody. An additional three holes have been drilled along a 400-metre strike length to further asses the east side of the deposit to the south where significant mineralization has been encountered in recent drilling including ML18-049 with 7.6m @ 21.77 g/t gold (March 22, 2018 news release).
Figure 6: Map showing the drill hole locations for holes around the Mother Lode open pit
Exploration Budget 2018-2019
The proposed 2018-2019 exploration plan for the Mother Lode property is to continue resource expansion stepout and infill drilling during the coming year. In addition initial deep drilling will be conducted to assess the western feeder zone for the main deposit. Additional surface work will be conducted on new targets east and west of the main Mother Lode deposit.
A NOI for drilling exploration in the Willy’s Area was submitted to the BLM in June 2018. Corvus has set a preliminary budget for exploration work at the Mother Lode Property of $1,050,000.
Figure 7: Map of new District-wide exploration project beyond the core Mother Lode deposit area, with areas for local expansion of the Mother Lode mineralization denoted by stars within the Mother Lode claims.
The Mother Lode property is not part of the NBP, and currently there is insufficient drilling or analysis for estimation of a mineral resource. Therefore, Mother Lode continues to be a non-material property.
Qualified Person and Quality Control/Quality Assurance
Jeffrey A. Pontius (CPG 11044), a qualified person as defined by NI 43-101, has supervised the preparation of the scientific and technical information that forms the basis for the NBP disclosure in this Annual Report on Form 10-K (other than the NBP mineral resource estimate) and has reviewed and approved the disclosure herein. Mr. Pontius is not independent of the Company, as he is the Chief Executive Officer and President and holds common shares and incentive stock options in Corvus.
Carl E. Brechtel (Colorado PE 23212, Nevada PE 008744 and Registered Member 353000 of SME), a qualified person as defined by National Instrument 43-101, has supervised the NBP metallurgical testing program and has reviewed and approved the disclosure in this Annual Report on Form 10-K related thereto. Mr. Brechtel is not independent of the Company, as he is the Chief Operating Officer and holds Common Shares and incentive stock options in Corvus.
The work program at the Mother Lode property was designed and supervised by Mark Reischman, Corvus Gold’s Nevada Exploration Manager, who is responsible for all aspects of the work, including the quality control/quality assurance program. On-site personnel at the project log and track all samples prior to sealing and shipping. Quality control is monitored by the insertion of blind certified standard reference materials and blanks into each sample shipment. All resource sample shipments are sealed and shipped to American Assay Laboratories (“AAL”) in Reno, Nevada, for preparation and assaying. AAL is independent of the Company. AAL’s quality control system complies with the requirements for the International Standards ISO 9001:2000 and ISO 17025:1999. Analytical accuracy and precision are monitored by the analysis of reagent blanks, reference material and replicate samples. Carl Brechtel, a Qualified Person, has verified the data underlying the information disclosed herein by reviewing the reports of AAL and all procedures undertaken for QA/QC. All matters were consistent and accurate accordingly to his professional judgment. There were no limitations on the verification process.
Mr. Scott E. Wilson, CPG, President of Metal Mining Consultants Inc., is an independent consulting geologist specializing in mineral reserve and mineral resource calculation reporting, mining project analysis and due diligence evaluations. He acted as the Qualified Person, as defined in NI 43-101, for the overall NBP Technical Report, and the mineral resource estimate. Mr. Wilson has over 26 years of experience in surface mining and is a Registered Member (#4025107RM) of Society for Mining, Metallurgy and Exploration, Inc. Mr. Wilson and Metal Mining Consultants, Inc. are independent of the Company under NI 43-101. Mr. Wilson has reviewed and approved the NBP mineral resource estimate contained herein.
ITEM 3.