ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
North Bullfrog Project, Nevada
Our principal mineral property is the NBP, a gold exploration project located in northwestern Nye County, Nevada, in the Northern Bullfrog Hills about 15 km north of the town of Beatty. The NBP does not have any known proven or probable reserves under SEC Industry Guide 7 and the project is exploratory in nature. The below information is in part summarized or extracted from our NI 43-101 technical report entitled “Technical Report and Preliminary Economic Assessment for Combined Mill and Heap Leach Processing at the North Bullfrog Project Bullfrog Mining District, Nye County, Nevada” and with an effective date of June 16, 2015, which was prepared for us by Scott W. Wilson, CPG, SME-RM, of Metal Mining Consultants, Inc., Stephen Batman, SME-RM of SBB Mining Solutions, LLC, Herbert Osborne, Metallurgical Eng., SME-RM, of H. C. Osborne and Associates., and William J. Pennstrom, Jr., SME-RM of Pennstrom Consulting Inc.
Property Description and Location
The NBP is located in the Bullfrog Hills of northwestern Nye County, Nevada (Figure 1). The NBP covers about 7,223 hectares of patented and unpatented mining claims in Sections 20, 21, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 32, 33, 34, 35, and 36 of T10S, R46E; sections 1, 2, 11, 12, 13, and 14 of T11S, R46E; section 31 of T10S, R47E; and sections 6, 9, 15, 16, and 17 T11S, R47E, MDBM. We have a total of nine option/lease agreements in place that give us control of an aggregate of 51 patented lode mining claims (Figure 2).
Figure 1 Property Map showing the Location of the North Bullfrog Project
Figure 2 Property Map of the North Bullfrog Project, Blue outline shows the NBP boundary
and red areas are the Leased Private Land (UTm NAD 27 Zone 11)
Title and Ownership
Redstar Gold Joint Venture and ITH Land Purchase
Redstar Gold Corp. (“Redstar”) originally staked 213 unpatented lode mining claims and optioned 21 patented lode mining claims from six private parties in 2006. ITH optioned the original NBP land package from Redstar in 2006, creating the NBPJV. ITH added 11 patented lode mining claims (the Mayflower property) to the NBPJV in 2007 under the Greenspun lease agreement. Redstar added 12 patented lode mining claims (the Connection and adjacent properties) to the NBPJV in 2008 under the lease agreement with Lunar Landing LLC. In August 2009 ITH purchased 100% interest in the NBPJV from Redstar by paying Redstar CAD$250,000 and issuing 200,000 ITH common shares. These holdings were then transferred to Corvus during the spin out. Corvus completed an additional option lease agreement on two patented lode mining claims in the Jolly Jane area in March 2011. In May 2014, Corvus amended its existing lease agreement with Kolo Corp. to add the Yellowrose and Yellowrose No. 1 claims. In March 2015 Corvus added a second option lease agreement with Lunar Landing LLC, to lease the Sunflower, Sunflower No. 1 and Sunflower No. 2 claims for a total of nine option agreements on private land. Table 1 summarizes the obligations of the nine leases which are part of Corvus’ responsibilities on the Project.
Table 1: Summary of Lease Obligations that are part of the North Bullfrog Project
(1)Plus 50,000 shares of ITH
Corvus has added an additional 808 federal unpatented lode mining claims which were staked in 2012, and added an additional 57 federal unpatented lode mining claims which were staked in late 2014.
Gregory Property (North Pioneer Area)
Pursuant to a mining lease made and entered into as of May 16, 2006 between Redstar and an arm’s length individual, Redstar has leased 1 patented mineral claim. The lease is for an initial term of 10 years, and for so long thereafter as mining activities continue on the claims or contiguous claims held by the lessee. The lessee is required to pay advance minimum royalty payments (recoupable from production royalties) of USD 20,500 on execution and USD 20,000 on each anniversary thereafter. The lessor is entitled to receive a 4% NSR royalty on all production, which may be purchased by the lessee for USD 1,000,000 per 1% (USD 4,000,000 for the entire royalty).
Hall Property (Savage Valley Area)
Pursuant to a mining lease made and entered into as of May 22, 2006 between Redstar and two arm’s length individuals, Redstar has leased 3 patented mineral claims. The lease is for an initial term of 10 years, and for so long thereafter as mining activities continue on the claims or contiguous claims held by the lessee. The lessee is required to pay advance minimum royalty payments (recoupable from production royalties) of USD 8,000 on execution, USD 4,800 on each of May 22, 2007, 2008 and 2009, USD 7,200 on May 22, 2010 and each anniversary thereafter, adjusted for inflation. The lessor is entitled to receive a 2% NSR royalty on all production, which may be purchased by the lessee for USD 1,000,000 per 1% (USD 2,000,000 for the entire royalty).
Kolo Property (Jolly Jane Area)
Pursuant to a mining lease made and entered into as of May 8, 2006 between Redstar and an arm’s length private Nevada corporation, Redstar has leased 2 patented mining claims (Jolly Jane and ZuZu). The lease is for an initial term of 10 years, and for so long thereafter as mining activities continue on the claims or contiguous claims held by the lessee. The lessee is required to pay advance minimum royalty payments (recoupable from production royalties) of USD 2,000 on execution, USD 2,000 on each of May 8, 2007, 2008 and 2009, USD 3,000 on May 8, 2010 and each anniversary thereafter, adjusted for inflation. The lessor is entitled to receive a 3% NSR royalty on all production from the Jolly Jane and ZuZu claims, which may be purchased by the lessee for USD 850,000 per 1% (USD 2,550,000 for the entire royalty).
The Kolo lease agreement was amended on May 29, 2014 to add the Yellowrose and Yellowrose No. 1 patented claims to the agreement. The term remained the same, but the amended lease includes additional Advance Minimum Royalty payments of USD 2,400 per year for years 1 and 2, increasing to USD 3,600 per year thereafter (adjusted for inflation) for the Yellowrose claims. The Lessor is entitled to receive a 3% NSR royalty on all production from the Yellowrose claims, which may be purchased by the lessee for USD 770,000 per 1% (USD 2,310,000 for the entire royalty).
Milliken Property (Pioneer Area)
Pursuant to a mining lease made and entered into as of May 8, 2006 between Redstar and two arm’s length individuals, Redstar has leased 3 patented mining claims. The lease is for an initial term of 10 years, and for so long thereafter as mining activities continue on the claims or contiguous claims held by the lessee. The lessee is required to pay advance minimum royalty payments (recoupable from production royalties) of USD 4,000 on execution, USD 3,500 on each of May 8, 2007, 2008 and 2009, USD 4,500 on May 8, 2010 and each anniversary thereafter, adjusted for inflation. The lessor is entitled to receive a 2% NSR royalty on all production, which may be purchased by the lessee for USD 1,000,000 per 1% (USD 2,000,000 for the entire royalty).
Prichard Property (Pioneer Area)
Pursuant to a mining lease made and entered into as of May 16, 2006 between Redstar and an arm’s length individual, Redstar has leased 12 patented mineral claims. The lease is for an initial term of 10 years, and for so long thereafter as mining activities continue on the claims or contiguous claims held by the lessee. The lessee is required to pay advance minimum royalty payments (recoupable from production royalties) of USD 20,500 on execution and USD 20,000 on each anniversary thereafter. The lessor is entitled to receive a 4% NSR royalty on all production, which may be purchased by the lessee for USD 1,000,000 per 1% (USD 4,000,000 for the entire royalty).
Lunar Property (Connection Area)
Pursuant to a mining lease and option to purchase agreement made effective October 27, 2008 between Redstar and an arm’s length limited liability company, Redstar has leased (and has the option to purchase) 12 patented mining claims. The ten-year, renewable mining lease requires advance minimum royalty payments (recoupable from production royalties, but not applicable to the purchase price if the option to purchase is exercised) of USD 10,800 on signing and annual payments for the first three anniversaries of USD 10,800 and USD 16,200 for every year thereafter. Redstar has an option to purchase the property (subject to the NSR royalty below) for USD 1,000,000 at any time during the life of the lease. Production is subject to a 4% NSR royalty, which may be purchased by the lessee for USD 1,250,000 per 1% (USD 5,000,000 for the entire royalty).
Lunar Property (Sunflower Area)
Pursuant to a mining lease and option to purchase agreement made effective March 30, 2015 between Corvus Nevada and an arm’s length limited liability company, Corvus Nevada has leased (and has the option to purchase) 3 patented mining claims. The 3 ½ year, renewable mining lease requires advance minimum royalty payments (recoupable from production royalties, but not applicable to the purchase price if the option to purchase is exercised) of USD 5,000 on signing and annual payments for the three anniversaries of USD 5,000. Corvus Nevada has an option to purchase the property (subject to the NSR royalty below) for USD 300,000 at any time during the life of the lease. Production is subject to a 4% NSR royalty, which may be purchased by the lessee for USD 500,000 per 1% (USD 2,000,000 for the entire royalty).
Sussman Property (Jolly Jane Area)
Pursuant to a mining lease and option to purchase made effective March 1, 2011 between Corvus Nevada and an arm’s length individual, Corvus Nevada has leased, and has the option to purchase, 2 patented mineral claims. The lease is for an initial term of 10 years, subject to extension for an additional 10 years (provided advance minimum royalties are timely paid), and for so long thereafter as mining activities continue on the claims. The lessee is required to pay advance minimum royalty payments (recoupable from production royalties, but not applicable to the purchase price if the option to purchase is exercised) of USD 20,000 on execution, USD 25,000 on each of March 1, 2012, 2013 and 2014, USD 30,000 on March 1, 2015 and each anniversary thereafter, adjusted for inflation. The lessor is entitled to receive a 2% NSR royalty on all production. The lessee may purchase the royalty for USD 1,000,000 per 1%. If the lessee purchases the entire royalty (USD 2,000,000) the lessee will also acquire all interest of the lessor in the subject property
Greenspun Property (Mayflower Area)
ITH, through what is now Corvus Nevada, entered into a mining lease with option to purchase with the Greenspun Group for 183 acres of patented lode mining claims that cover much of the Mayflower prospect. The Mayflower lease requires Corvus to make payments and complete work programs as outlined in Table 2. During the term of the lease any production from the Mayflower property is subject to a sliding scale royalty, also outlined in Table 2. Corvus has the right to purchase a 100% interest in the Mayflower property for $7.5 million plus a 0.5% NSR (if gold is less than $500) or 1.0% (if gold is above $500) at any time during the term of the lease (subject to escalation for inflation if the option is exercised after the 10th year of the lease). The annual property taxes to be paid by Corvus for the Mayflower property are $214. On February 11, 2015, the Mayflower mining lease with option to purchase was amended with the addition of an anti-dilute clause applying to the ITH shares and with an increase in the annual payment to include 25,000 Common Shares.
Table 2: Summary of the Material Terms of the Mayflower/Greenspun Group Lease
Term: Five Years Beginning December 1, 2007
Five additional years with an additional five year period, plus an additional 3 year period or so long thereafter as commercial production continues
Lease Payments: Due on Each Anniversary Date of the Lease
On regulatory acceptance - US$5,000 and 25,000 ITH shares
Each of first - fourth anniversaries, US$5,000 and 20,000 ITH shares
Each of fifth - ninth anniversaries,US$10,000, 50,000 ITH shares and 25,000 Common Shares
Work Commitments: Excess Expenditures in Any Year Can Be Carried Forward, or if under Spent the Unspent Portion Paid to Greenspun Group
Years 1-3 US$100,000 each year the lease is in effect
Years 4-6 US$200,000 each year the lease is in effect
Years 7-10 US$300,000 each year the lease is in effect
Retained Royalty: Production Sliding Scale Net Smelter Return Based on Price of Gold Each Quarter
2% if gold is less than US$300 per ounce
3% if gold is between US$300 and US$500 per ounce
4% if gold is more than US$500 per ounce
Advance Minimum Royalty Payments (if not in commercial production by the tenth anniversary, in order to extend lease for an additional three years)
Years 11-13 US$100,000 each year the lease is in effect and commercial production has not been achieved
Purchase Option:
During first 10 years, the property can be purchased for US$7.5 million plus an 0.5% NSR (if gold is less than US$500) or 1.0% (if gold is above US$500)
After the tenth anniversary the US$7.5 million purchase price escalates by the Consumer Price Index, using the CPI immediately prior to the tenth anniversary as a base
Millman Property
On February 21, 2013 Corvus Nevada signed a purchase agreement, which was subsequently closed on March 27, 2013, for the purchase of the surface rights only to five patented lode mining claims owned by Mr. and Mrs. Gordon Millman and located east of the Mayflower Property. This ground could be used for potential overburden storage from the Mayflower deposit as well as improving access to the Mayflower Property in general. Corvus Nevada purchased the surface rights for US $160,000. Additionally, Corvus Nevada agreed to pay the Millmans a fee of US $0.02 per ton of any potential overburden storage subject to a minimum storage of 12 million short tons of material. The minimum storage fee of US $240,000 bears interest at 4.77% per annum from the closing date and is due on December 31, 2015.
Sarcobatus Property
In December 2013, SoN Land and Water LLC, wholly owned by Corvus Nevada, completed the purchase of an 160 ha fee simple parcel of land approximately 30 km north of the NBP which carries with it 1,600 acre feet of irrigation water rights within the Sarcobatus Flats water basin. The cost of the land and associated water rights was US $1,000,000. The Company has registered the purchase of water rights with the Nevada State Engineer (“NSE”) and will make application to the NSE to temporarily move the production point to the NBP, and change the application to mining. The water right requires annual renewal and has currently been extended through June 11, 2016.
Other property considerations
All of the unpatented lode mining claims are on U.S. public land administered by the BLM. These claims give Corvus the right to explore for and mine minerals which include the metals gold and silver, subject to the necessary permits. The current exploration permits from BLM and NDEP allow Corvus surface access, maintenance of roads, drilling and sampling, and a defined amount of accompanying surface disturbance. The unpatented lode mining claims require payment of yearly maintenance fees to the BLM and Nye County (recording fees) of an aggregate of $147,953 (estimated for 2015). Annual property taxes to be paid by Corvus for some of the properties under the original six Redstar leases and subsequent leases are tabulated in Table 1.
Current exploration activities are covered by a Plan of Operations (NVN-83002) with the BLM. Two exploration Plans of Operation are in place with the Nevada Department of Environmental Protection (“NDEP”) (NDEP#0280 and #0290) that fulfill the State of Nevada permitting obligations on private and public lands, respectively. Reclamation bonds, related to environmental liabilities to which the NBP is subject, are in place to cover activities on the property. Corvus’ reclamation liabilities are covered by surety bonds issued by Lexon Insurance Company in the amount of $341,341 for 103 acres of disturbance on public land with the BLM and $209,070 for 20.3 acres of disturbance on private land with NDEP.
Accessibility, Physiography, Climate and Infrastructure
The NBP is accessible as a two and one half hour (209 km, 130 mile) drive north of Las Vegas Nevada along US Highway 95. US 95 is the major transportation route between Las Vegas, Reno Nevada and Boise Idaho. Las Vegas is serviced by a major international airport. The Project lies immediately to the west of the highway. Beatty, Nevada is the closest town to the Project with a population of about 1,100 and contains most basic services. Access around the Project is by a series of reasonably good gravel and dirt roads that extend to most of the important exploration areas.
The NBP is in Western Nevada’s high desert, which receives about 15 cm of precipitation per year, mostly as modest snow fall in the winter and thunderstorms in the summer. The average daily temperature (°F) varies from a low of 40 in January to a high of 80 in July. The hills at the NBP are covered with sparse low brush including creosote, four-wing saltbush, rabbit brush and Nevada ephedra. The project is in the Basin and Range province, but the local topographic relief is only a few hundred feet. Most of the NBP area is characterized by low hills separated by modest width valleys.
Beatty, Nevada is the closest town to the NBP and contains most basic services. The nearest major supply point that would support a major mining related activity is Las Vegas, Nevada about 160 km to the southeast. There are several accessible old mine workings.
There are currently no other structures or infrastructure on the NBP. Major mining and construction equipment sales and service are readily available throughout Nevada; however, most major mining operations are located in the northern part of the state and are serviced from the cities of Reno and Elko. Human resources are readily available within the community of Beatty, which has a population of approximately 1,100 people, and historically provided a substantial portion of the workforce for the Bullfrog Mine, which operated between 1989 and 1998 as both an open pit and underground gold mining operation. Pahrump, approximately 110 km to the southeast of Beatty, is a larger community with a population of 36,000. Pahrump is a local regional center, with a hospital and emergency medical services, a college campus with technical training for industrial support and expanded service sectors.
Electrical power is provided to the immediate area of the NBP by the Valley Electric Association, Inc. (“VEA”), which is headquartered in Pahrump. A 25 kV line runs north from Beatty, NV along Highway 95. VEA began upgrading its existing electrical facilities, on the eastern portion of the NBP, in mid-2013. The upgrade has a separate circuit of 15 Mw capacity and will accommodate the presently anticipated future demand from the NBP. We anticipate that adequate power will be available for all proposed future mining operations at the project. The Company contributed US $28,500 for the line upgrade. Two electrical feeder lines run west from the main line, one to the perimeter of the NBP property to power an aggregate crushing plant operating in the southern portion of NBP and a second that traverses the property to power a centrally located microwave station and the Company’s weather station which has been installed on Corvus controlled patented mining claims near Mayflower.
Water resources for a mining project must be obtained from the ground water in the Sarcobatus Flats. There appears to be sufficient resources in the ground water basins at the project, and the Company has registered the water rights purchased in Sarcobatus with the NSE. The Company will make application to convert the water rights to a temporary mining use, and to transfer the point of extraction to the NBP. Water wells, booster stations, and pipelines would be developed to provide water to the mine, process facilities, and ancillary structures. The current plan would be to drill several wells northwest of the heap leach pad and install a fresh water line from the well fields to the process plant. The first phase of the hydrologic characterization program was completed during the 2013 drill program, which successfully identified a potential water production well site in the Sarcobatus Flats (Nevada State Water Basin 146) within the northwest portion of the NBP.
Geology and Mineralization
Geology
The NBP is within the Walker Lane structural province and the Southwestern Nevada Volcanic Field (“SWNVF”). The Project lies approximately ten kilometres west of the western margin of the middle Miocene Timber Mountain caldera complex of the SWNVF and many of the volcanic units exposed on the NBP originated from the caldera complex. However, it appears that many of the most important host rocks to the mineralization are locally derived from what is now known as the North Bullfrog Hills Volcanic Complex (“NBVC”) and are slightly older than the main ash flows erupted from the Timber Mountain Caldera. The region is underlain by Paleozoic sedimentary rocks which are the basement for the mid-Miocene tuffs and related rocks that are the hosts for most of the mineralization in the Bullfrog mining district. The region was subjected to extensional faulting which was contemporaneous with volcanism and localized sedimentary basins filled with reworked volcanic and basement debris developed as a result. Multiple episodes of extension have been documented. Most of the major fault zones have northerly strikes with normal displacement to the west. However, hanging wall antithetic faults are also present. Some of the major faults are interpreted to have listric shapes, similar to the MP fault at the Bullfrog mine, and likely sole into a district-scale detachment fault at depth. During younger periods of extension many of the older faults in the hanging walls of these listric structures have experienced significant rotation. Figure 3 is a geologic map of NBP showing target exploration and resource areas;
Figure 3 Geologic Map of NBP Showing Target and Resource Areas and Legend of Geologic Symbols
The Northern Bullfrog Hills (“NBH”) is underlain by pre-Tertiary basement rocks consisting of Precambrian to Cambrian sedimentary rocks of the Wood Canyon, Zabriskie and Carrara Formations. The basement rocks are exposed on the property in two prominent erosional windows. The pre-Tertiary windows are remnants of a basement structural high of significant relief upon which the Tertiary rocks were deposited. The basement rocks are overlain by a sequence of Miocene volcanic and lesser sedimentary rocks of the SWNVF.
The lowermost Tertiary rocks are known as the Jolly Jane Formation and consist of a basal conglomerate overlain by a sequence of heterogeneous sedimentary rocks including mudstone, siltstone and sandstone. The basal conglomerate is a time transgressive surface lag deposit which generally contains abundant clasts of pre-Tertiary basement rocks. The type locality for this unit is known from drilling in the Jolly Jane area and consists of up to 50 metres of heterogeneous sediments which appear to have been accumulated in a structural basin prior to and during the onset of volcanism. Sandstone, silt, shale and calcareous sediments are present with both black organic-rich and hematitic intervals also present. It is common to see tuffaceous sediments in the upper portions of the sand and shale sequences. The thickness and composition of the Jolly Jane Formation is highly variable, and is interpreted to have been deposited on a Tertiary erosional unconformity of significant relief.
The Jolly Jane Formation is overlain by the Savage Formation which consists of locally-sourced lava domes, flows and associated intrusive rocks of dacitic to rhyolitic composition. The Savage Formation also includes intercalated volcaniclastic intervals (re-worked dacite) and locally carbonaceous sediments. It is rather heterogeneous in terms of the thickness and the areal distribution of individual domes, flows and epiclastic intervals. The Savage Formation is only locally mineralized.
The Pioneer Formation rhyolitic pyroclastics overlie the Savage Formation dacites. The Pioneer Formation ranges from 10 to more than 200 metres in thickness and consists of monotonous lithic lapilli tuffs. In the northern parts of the NBP these tuffs are mixed with rhyolite domes of uncertain origin, however, dating shows that the tuffs and rhyolites are essentially the same age. Epiclastic sediments found at the top of the Pioneer Formation suggest that an angular unconformity is developed between this sequence and the overlying Sierra Blanca Tuff. The Pioneer Formation is extensively altered and hosts a large portion of the disseminated gold mineralization.
The Sierra Blanca Tuff is a large rhyolitic ash flow tuff that blankets the NBP. Unlike the preceding units, which appear to have been locally derived, the Sierra Blanca Tuff probably represents a regional ash flow eruption that came from outside the NBP. The Sierra Blanca Tuff varies in thickness from <70 metres at Jolly Jane to >160 metres at North Sierra Blanca. The tuff consists of a single cooling unit and is densely welded. The densely welded nature makes the rock brittle and, as a consequence, it is the most important host for both disseminated and vein style mineralization at the NBP.
Following the deposition of the Sierra Blanca Tuff, local volcanism continued with the deposition of the Savage Dacite, another locally-sourced sequence of lava domes, flows, pyroclastics and epiclastics of primarily dacitic composition. The Savage Dacite varies greatly in both thickness and composition, characterized by alternating eruptive cycles of geochemically different dacitic magmas. The Savage Dacite is only mineralized where it is in contact with significant fault structures.
Zircon dating shows that the entire sequence from Pioneer Formation through the Savage Dacite was deposited between 16.1Ma and 14.4Ma, making it among the oldest volcanics in the region.
The 13.5Ma Crater Flat Tuff, which consists of two regionally extensive ash flow cooling units, appears to overlie the Savage Dacite at both Savage Valley and Jolly Jane but the contact is not exposed at the surface. The Crater Flat Tuffs are extensively altered at both Yellowjacket and Jolly Jane but no significant mineralization has yet been identified in these units.
The Rainbow Mountain Sequence is the most heterogeneous unit of the NBH. It consists of intercalated sequences of heterolithic and monolithic sedimentary debris flow breccias, large slide bocks derived from local volcanic and sedimentary units, as well as rhyolitic ash flows and rhyolite domes. The debris flow breccias are bedded but poorly sorted, consisting of sand- to large boulder-size clasts of predominantly volcanic rocks. Both gravity sliding and fluvial processes appear to have played a role in deposition. The volcanic debris is derived from many of the SWNVF units that are preserved as tabular ash flow tuff sheets elsewhere in the Bullfrog Hills. These include the Crater Flat Group, the Paintbrush Group and the Timber Mountain Group tuffs. The debris flow breccia deposits are largely the result of the re-working of the SWNVF units via gravity sliding and alluvial fan development around fault-bounded basement structural highs. The Debris Flow Breccia sequence represents a period of dynamic extensional faulting, scarp development and mass wasting. Massive, relatively intact blocks of monolithic breccias are interpreted as landslide megabreccia deposits that were shed off local fault scarps. Gold mineralization at Mayflower and Connection is hosted in the Rainbow Mountain Sequence. The thickness of this unit exceeds 300 metres in the Mayflower area.
Mineralization
All of the mineralization at NBP can be classified as low-sulphidation epithermal mineralization. There are at least two and possibly three distinct periods of mineralization present. Older mineralization, before 11.2 Ma, is observed at the Sierra Blanca and Jolly Jane Mineral Resource areas. A younger mineralization, 10 Ma, occurs at the Mayflower Mineral Resource area.
In both mineralization periods, there are two styles of low suphidation gold/silver mineralization; (1) high grade, fault controlled fissure veins, vein breccias and stockworks (Mayflower, Liberator, YellowJacket, Liberty and others), and (2) low grade disseminated replacement deposits (Sierra Blanca, Jolly Jane and Mayflower). The low grade, disseminated mineralization is currently the more abundant type at NBP.
1)Sierra Blanca Mineralization
Mineralization at Sierra Blanca can be classified into six different styles:
·Disseminated gold mineralization associated with pervasive silica adularia and sulphidation of iron (ubiquitous at Sierra Blanca );
·Gold associated with fault controlled suphidation (NE30, NE50, NE60 Faults);
·Gold associated with quartz veining;
·Continuous quartz vein and associated stockworks (Josh vein at YellowJacket);
·Localized quartz veins and stockworks (numverous zones);
·Sulphide veining with gold and tellurium mineralization (Air Track Hill).
Pervasive disseminated mineralization occurs in the Pioneer Formation and Sierra Blanca Tuff over virtually the entire area at Sierra Blanca at 0.2-0.3 g/t gold grade. Oxidation of this mineralization extends locally to 200m and is associated with good cyanide leach metallurgical recovery. Fault hosted mineralization has been encountered in numerous locations (NS10, E30, NE40, NE50, NE60 and Savage Faults) with conststently higher gold grade (1-17 g/t) than the disseminated mineralization. Where oxidized, the fault zones respond well to cyanide leaching.
Quartz vein and stockwork mineralization occurs primarily in the YellowJacket deposit, a generally NW striking structural corridor along the eastern side of Sierra Blanca. The gold-bearing quatz vein and stockwork zones are generally gray translucent quartz with native gold and electrum, and varying amounts of acanthite or other silver sulphosalts. Metallurgical testing indicates high gold and silver recovery with cyanide leaching, both above and below the oxidation horizon.
The pervasive disseminated mineralization at Sierra Blanca and the Josh vein and stockwork mineralization at YellowJacket comprise approximately 84% of the gold resource at NBP.
2)Jolly Jane Mineralization
Jolly Jane is located in the middle of NBP and virtually all of the geological elements common to NBP are found there. Disseminated mineralization occurs within the Sierra Blanc Tuff, which is thinner, approximately 70 m as compared to a thickness of >160 m at Siera Blanca. The mineralized Sierra Blanca Tuff is preserved a a horst between the West Jolly Jane Fault and the East Jolly Jane Fault. Gold grade is similar to Sierra Blanca disseminated mineralization with slightly lower cyanide leach recovery.
3)Mayflower Mineralization
Younger, fracture controlled deposits at Mayflower and Pioneer were historically mined. The Mayflower Mine developed on a calcite vein and stockwork zone along a NW striking, steeply SW-dipping fault zone in silica-adularia-altered heterolithioc debris flow breccia in the Rainbow Mountain Sequence. Multiple high-grade gold areas have been identified, surrounded by low grade mineralization. Mayflower mineralization is typically 0. 4-0.5 g/t and is well oxidized with good cyanide leach recovery.
Historical Work
The NBP is in the Bullfrog Mining District. Gold was discovered at what was to become the original Bullfrog mine by Frank “Shorty” Harris and Ernest Cross on August 9, 1904. Two periods of mining activity account for the majority of production from the District. It is reported that 111,805 ounces of gold and 868,749 ounces of silver were produced between 1905 and 1921, after which there was little production until the 1980s. In early 1982 geologists from St. Joe Minerals Corporation became interested in the District. They conducted extensive exploration in the area of the Montgomery-Shoshone and Senator Stewart mines, resulting in the discovery of the Bullfrog deposit in mid-1986. Several company acquisitions resulted in Barrick Gold Corporation (“Barrick”) being the final owner of the mine. The Bullfrog mine produced gold and silver from three separate deposits including: 1) main Bullfrog (open pit and underground); 2) Montgomery-Shoshone (open pit); and 3) Bonanza Mountain (open pit). Between 1989 and 1999, it is reported that the Bullfrog mine produced 2.31 Moz of gold and 3.0 Moz of silver.
The early history of the NBP is comingled with the greater Bullfrog Mining District. The Pioneer and Mayflower were the principal mines in the northern part of the district. The Pioneer mine was most active between 1909 and 1926 with about 15,000 feet of underground workings, all being developed within 330 feet of the surface. There are no accurate production figures, but limited records suggest that head grades were about one quarter ounce of gold per ton. The Mayflower mine was probably active during the same time, but again there are no reliable production records. Underground development at Sierra Blanca, Jolly Jane, Savage Valley, and Yellowjacket also attest to historic mining and production, probably during the same period.
Modern exploration started in the early 1970s and consisted of a number of companies with focuses on different parts of the property. These programs consisted of a variety of activities including surface mapping and sampling, underground mapping and sampling, and drilling.
Between the early 1970’s and the end of the Barrick exploration in the mid-1990’s, approximately 249 rotary and reverse-circulation drill holes were drilled on the NBP.
With the downturn in gold price at the start of the 21st Century, interest in the NBP was essentially nonexistent. Redstar became attracted to the North Bullfrog area in late 2005, and started staking claims and acquiring leases on patented mining claims. In March 2007, Redstar granted ITH the right to earn an interest in the NBP and thereafter form the NBPJV. In December 2007 ITH completed a lease of the Mayflower property, which was included in the NBPJV. Following the execution of the NBPJV agreement, ITH commenced active exploration on the NBP. In October 2008, Redstar completed a lease of the Connection property, which was also included in the NBPJV. On August 4, 2009, ITH purchased Redstar’s interests in the NBP and continued the exploration program as sole owner/lessor. On August 26, 2010, ITH spun out Corvus as a separate public company in a transaction which resulted in Corvus owning Corvus Nevada, through which all interest in the NBP was held, thus resulting in Corvus indirectly acquiring all of the interest in and responsibilities for the NBP.
Recent Exploration Work
2014 Drilling Program
In 2014, Corvus drilled 48 oriented core holes totaling 12,636 metres (41,456 feet). These included 36 HQ3 holes, and 12 PQ3 holes for metallurgical samples. The 2014 program was focused on resource definition and metallurgical sampling of the YellowJacket Vein and Stockwork system. Two additional channel sample profiles were completed along new roadcuts totaling 181 metres (595 feet). The logging protocol was refined somewhat to improve the logging of vein types and abundances. The 2014 drill results have been incorporated into the revised estimates of mineralized volumes in the Sierra Blanca Disseminated and the YellowJacket Vein-Stockwork zones reported in the NI 43-101 Technical Report with an effective date of June 16, 2015. Figure 4 shows a geologic map of the Josh Vein structure and location of drill holes.
The YellowJacket vein mineralization, illustrated by the cross section in Figure 5, is structurally-controlled and occurs in distinct quartz veins and stockwork zones, as opposed to the more typical disseminated mineralization at the NBP. Significant intercepts from YellowJacket drilling between June and the end of November, 2014 are listed in Table 3 to illustrate the distribution of veins and vein stockworks encountered in this structurally controlled mineralization. Corvus uses the Reflex ACT II core orientation tool to orient all core holes, and surveys all holes to support the structural interpretation which is ongoing at this time.
Figure 4: Geologic Map of the YellowJacket Zone Showing Major Structures and Drill Holes.
Table 3: Significant 2014 Drill Intercepts from the YellowJacket Structural Zone Showing the Distribution of Higher Grade Mineralization in Structurally Related Quartz Vein and Stockwork Intervals.
Figure 5: Geologic Cross Section Through YellowJacket
2015 Drilling Program
On April 23, 2015 we began our 2015 core drill program at the NBP. Phase 1 drill plans called for initial testing of 5 targets including three near the Yellowjacket/Sierra Blanca area and two in the newly defined Eastern Steam-heated Zone.
Figure 6: North Bullfrog 2015 exploration target map with target areas numbered in order of priority
Mapping and Geophyics for Target Identification in the Eastern Steam-heated Zone
In the Eastern Steam-heated Zone, new geologic mapping, age dating and rock sampling completed in 2014, has defined a series of high priority exploration targets. An additional 57 NB-claims were staked in late 2014, extending the NBP claim block to the southeast over newly identified areas exhibiting steam-heated alteration. In early 2015, a gravity survey was conducted over the Eastern Steam-heated zone in order to define possible structures beneath the extensive alteration zone which covers approximately 142 kilometres (see Figure 3). The gravity data modeled in conjunction with the detailed surface mapping has defined an NNW trending structural corridor that is over 5 km long and 2 km wide representing by far the largest altered and mineralized structural zone on the property and which remains essentially untested. Drill testing of these new large target areas began in the 2015 exploration program.
Several new target areas have been identified at the Eastern Steam-heated zone of the NBP, all of which are associated with shallow-level hydrothermal alteration including steam-heated opal-kaolinite-alunite assemblages and paleo-groundwater table silica accumulation. These target areas include Alunite Hill, Spicerite, Vinegaroon, Cat Hill, Yellow Rose, Sinter, Burro, Road Fault, Powerline and Bailey’s in order of priority (Figure 3).
A hypogene vein alunite sample from the Vinegaroon target area has yielded an Ar-Ar date of 9.5 Ma. This date, combined with a published date of 10.2 Ma from alunite at Bailey’s Hot Springs indicates that the Eastern Steam-heated Zone is of similar age to the Mayflower and main Bullfrog deposits. Based on field evidence, the current interpretation is that the steam-heated alteration has largely been eroded away. The currently exposed level low-temperature silica accumulation generally defines the paleo-groundwater table, and forms a flat tabular body across much of the Eastern Steam-heated Zone. The steam heated alteration zone and paleo-groundwater table silica are largely barren of metals as would be expected at this level of erosion over a productive vein system. The target concept is to test for high-grade veins in the boiling zone below the steam-heated alteration and paleo-groundwater table. The depth of paleo-boiling has been identified in the Spicerite target of the Eastern Steam-heated Zone, with boiling and vein development at approximately 100 metres below the surface. Further testing of targets will focus on productive depths of 100-300 meters deep.
The Alunite Hill target is currently the most prospective target in the Eastern Steam-heated Zone. The target is the NW-trending Alunite Hill Fault, which hosts a quartz vein/stockwork zone up to 1 metre wide and 700 meters long. The Alunite Hill fault/vein yields gold and silver values up to 0.746 ppm Au and 13 ppm Ag. The vein also locally exhibits boiling textures (quartz replacing early bladed calcite), suggesting the present level of exposure is the upper portion of the paleo-boiling zone.
The Spicerite target area hosts at least three through-going NNW-trending, down-to-the-west normal faults that control steam-heated alteration. A fourth through-going fault is down-to-the-east, and forms the Spicerite Graben. The graben has been filled with largely non-steam-heated debris flow volcanic breccia, but contains cobbles and boulders of steam-heated rocks suggesting a very dynamic period of faulting, erosion and hydrothermal alteration between 9.5-10.2 Ma. It is hypothesized that the graben fill is concealing a primary vein target at depth.
The Vinegaroon target area is a large east-west trending structural corridor defined by the Vinegaroon Fault Zone, which separates volcanic rocks and debris flows (north or hanging wall side) from Paleozoic basement rocks to the south. The Vinegaroon Fault Zone can be mapped or inferred from the gravity data for over four kilometers of strike length from the Road Fault on the west to the Sinter target area on the east. Silicified ribs along or within the hanging wall of the Vinegaroon Fault contain anomalous gold values up to 1 ppm. The intersection between the Vinegaroon Fault and the Alunite Hill Fault is a primary target. Other targets include several NNW to NW-trending faults exhibiting anomalous gold in silicified ribs in the hanging wall of the Vinegaroon Fault.
Initial 2015 Drill Results
Initial results from the first of multiple outlined priority targets from phase one of our 2015 drill program were announced on July 9, 2015. The initial two core drill holes intersected the targeted Sierra Blanca NE trending structural zone that hosts productive stockwork veining.
Table 4: Stockwork Vein Intercepts* from North Sierra Blanca Target
(Reported drill intercepts are not true widths. At this time, there is insufficient data with respect to the shape of the mineralization to calculate its true orientation in space.)
* stockwork veining is defined as the intervals vein density of >5% and a cutoff grade of 1.0 g/t gold
NB-15-425 was targeted on a series of NE-trending, moderate to steeply west-dipping structures that control alteration and quartz stockwork veining on the northwest side of the Sierra Blanca deposit and possibly the western counterpart for the YellowJacket Vein system. The Sierra Blanca deposit was originally drilled out with vertical holes. Identifying steeply dipping feeder veins similar to the YellowJacket discovered on the east side or others that could be internal or west of the deposit will be the target in the subsequent drill program. Follow-up logging after the YellowJacket discovery revealed that several of these vertical RC holes in the northern part of the Sierra Blanca deposit encountered broad intervals of low grade mineralization and northeast trending quartz stockwork veining. Hole NB-15-425 targeted a broad quartz-adularia alteration zone between the NE30 and NE40 faults at elevations equivalent to the high-grade zone in the adjacent YellowJacket Vein deposit. The upper part of hole NB-15-425 encountered 4.1 metres at 1.3 g/t Au oxide mineralization in the Savage Valley dacite on a splay of the NE30 fault zone. These grades in upper level stockwork veining hosted in dacite are consistent with those returned from the upper parts for a YellowJacket type system and follow up drilling will target this structural zone deeper to assess if the system broadens at depth. This hole continued down through broad intervals of low grade mineralization in the Pioneer Formation. Strong quartz-adularia-illite alteration and quartz stockwork veining is abundant in the Pioneer Formation throughout the hole, but no other zones of significant grade were encountered.
NB-15-426 also targeted a series of NE-trending, moderate to steeply west-dipping structures associated with the NE30 fault zone approximately 400 metres NE of hole 425. This area of the Sierra Blanca deposit has returned a number of vertical RC drill intercepts of higher gold and silver values as well as anomalous copper indicative of the more productive parts of the YellowJacket system. The target concept, like that for hole 425, is the NE30 fault zone bounding the west side of the Sierra Blanca deposit which could be an analog to the YellowJacket high-grade zone on the east side. Hole NB-15-426 intersected 3.7 metres at 1.31 g/t Au, within a broader interval of 63.53 metres at 0.52 g/t, all within the Sierra Blanca Tuff. This mineralized stockwork interval exhibits a similar vein paragenesis to the Yellowjacket Vein, suggesting the interval is in close proximity to a productive high-grade vein. NB-15-426 was lost in a mineralized fault zone before reaching completion depth and will be followed up.
Mineral Resources
North Bullfrog Project Resource Estimate
A mineral resource estimate for the NBP, effective as at June 16, 2015, has been prepared as part of the updated Technical Report. The basis for the mineral resource estimates at the NBP are geologic models developed by Corvus’ geologists. Geologic logs, alteration and geochemical data were used to define the mineralized zones, and were the limiting factor for gold distribution for the resource estimations. Both Ordinary Kriging and Inverse Distance calculations were used to develop block models of gold and silver mineralization at several cut-off grades (“COG”). The mineral resource is subdivided according to the specific processing requirements of the different types of mineralization, and consists of higher grade mineralization within the Yellowjacket Zone, which would require mill circuit with gravity concentration and cyanide leaching of the concentrate and gravity tail, and lower grade, oxidized disseminated mineralization from the Sierra Blanca, Jolly Jane and Mayflower areas, which would be suitable for run-of-mine heap leach processing. The estimated mineral resource is summarized in Table 5, where it has been estimated as the portion of mineralization with reasonable prospects for extraction defined by Whittle® analysis of the resource block models. The Whittle® software defined an open pit mining shell at a gold price of US $1,200/oz, economic parameters typical of Nevada open pit mines and metallurgical recoveries indicated by NBP testing data received to date. The estimated mineral resource is defined by mineralization falling within the open pit mining shell which would be processed and is listed in Table 5.
Table 5: Measured, Indicated, and Inferred Mineral Resource Estimate for the North Bullfrog Project Defined by
Whittle TM pit volumes, including both the YellowJacket Vein/Stockwork and Disseminated Oxide Mineralization at $1,200 Gold Price
* - Analysis assumes a fixed ratio of the gold to silver prices of 73.7
**-Breakeven grade derived from Whittle input parameters at US$1,200/oz gold price and Gold:Silver price ratio of 73.7
***- See Cautionary Note to US Investors below
****-The Mineral Resources above are effective as of June 16, 2015.
*****-Mineral Resources that are not Mineral Reserves do not have demonstrated economic viability.
****** - Mr. Scott E. Wilson is the QP responsible for reviewing and approving the Mineral Resource Estimate contained herein.
Cautionary Note to US Investors: The terms Measured, Indicated Resource and Inferred Resource as described in Table 5 above are as defined in Canadian National Instrument 43-101. These terms are not defined under SEC Industry Guide 7 and are not recognized by the SEC. These estimated mineral resources are not SEC Industry Guide 7 proven and probable reserves. See “Cautionary Note to US Investors Regarding Mineral Reserve and Resource Estimates” above.
Metallurgical Testing of Gravity Concentration with Cyanide Leaching of the Gravity Tail - YellowJacket Samples
Metallurgical testing of combined gravity concentration with cyanide leaching of the gravity tail was performed for two different sets of composite samples representing Josh vein and vein stockwork materials for the YellowJacket zone. The YJ PQ composites represented vein and stockwork materials from above the oxidation horizon, and a second set, YJ JV samples, were used to create composites representing Josh vein and stockwork materials from below oxidation. The testing included E-GRG tests to provide a basis to predict the optimum grind size for gravity recovery and to simulate performance of a gravity concentrator at mill scale. The feed samples were ground to 80% passing -212μm (-65 mesh) then processed through a KnelsonTM concentrator. For the YJ PQ composites, the gravity recoverable gold from the concentrate was determined, and the gravity tail material was processed in a 96-hour Bottle Roll Test (BRT) to measure tail recoverable gold. Table 6 lists the combined gravity and tail CN recovery in the YJ PQ composites for gold and silver.
Table 6: Summary of Gravity Concentration with CN Leaching of Tail Materials Tests for the YJ PQ Composites from YellowJacket
Composite
Material
Feed Size (P80)
Au rec. (%)
Ag rec. (%)
CN cons.
(kg/tonne)
Lime Added
(kg/tonne)
YJPQ 01
Vein
-150μm
93.7
75.0
0.26
2.1
-75μm
95.6
78.2
0.15
1.4
YJPQ02
Stockwork
-150μm
94.8
76.9
0.14
1.7
-75μm
95.6
80.8
0.17
1.6
YJPQ03
Stockwork
-150μm
88.2
71.1
0.10
1.4
-75μm
93.3
77.1
0.13
1.5
YJPQ04
Stockwork
-150μm
72.8
64.2
0.15
1.4
-75μm
74.1
68.2
0.12
2.0
The YJ JV samples were batch processed through the gravity concentrator with a nominal 0.3 % mass pull to the concentrate. The concentrate was then re-ground to 80% -45μm (-325 mesh) and intensively CN leached. The leached concentrate was combined with the gravity tail product which was ground to 80% -150μm and -75μm and then leached. The combined gravity recovery and tail recovery are listed in Table 7.
Table 7: Summary of Gravity Concentration with intense CN Leaching of Concentrate and CN Leaching of Tail Materials for the YJ JV Composites from YellowJacket
Samples of the gravity concentrate from the seven YJ JV samples, used to create the two master composites, were submitted for QUEMSCAN analysis to better characterize the gold occurrence. The analysis indicated that approximately half of the concentrate was sulphide, which was expected because the samples were selected below the oxidation horizon. In general, 95% of the gold occurred as liberated particles or gold adhesion binaries with exposed surfaces, suitable for relatively high metal recovery. These mineralogical characterizations were consistent with the high gold and silver recoveries observed in the metallurgical testing of the YellowJacket mineralization.
Preliminary Economic Assessment
The Preliminary Economic Assessment (“PEA”) performed for the Technical Report, assumes development of a conventional drill and blast, surface mine using haul trucks and front end loaders, milling of higher grade mineralization with gravity-cyanide leaching, of the YellowJacket mineral resource, and heap leach processing of low grade mineralized material from the Sierra Blanca, Jolly Jane, and Mayflower mineral resources. Mineralized material from the YellowJacket vein and stockwork mineral resource would be delivered to a processing plant incorporating a gravity concentration circuit with intense cyanide leaching of the gravity concentrate followed by cyanide leaching of the gravity tail product. Tail materials would be stored in a conventional, lined tailing storage facility (TSF). Lower grade disseminated mineralization would be processed by heap leaching of run of mine (ROM) material. Ultra-high intensity blasting would be performed to minimize particle size for enhanced heap leach recoveries and would allow transport and stacking on a heap leach pad using a feeder/conveyor/stacker system. Gold and Silver in leachate solutions would be recovered from carbon from both processes and a doré would be produced in a refinery located in the Mill. Summary results for the PEA are listed in Table 8. Sensitivity of the projected financial performance of the North Bullfrog project to gold price is listed around the Base Case assumption of a constant gold price of US $1,200 per ounce in Table 9.
The PEA uses gold and silver recoveries for a gravity-cyanide leach mill that are estimated from two sets of metallurgical composite samples developed from PQ core materials generated in YellowJacket drilling programs during 2013 and 2014. Gravity concentrate samples were developed using a KnelsonTM concentrator. The KnelsonTM feed was ground to P80 -0.21mm (-65 mesh). The produced gravity concentrate was then re-ground to P80 -0.044mm (-325 mesh), and subjected to intense cyanide leaching. The leached concentrate was then re-combined with the gravity tail product and ground to P80 -0.074mm (-200 mesh) before the final cyanide leach to maximize gold and silver recovery. Average recoveries of 86.8% for gold and 71.4% for silver were assumed for the mill process plant.
Heap leach metallurgical recovery estimates are based on column leach testing data for composite samples constructed from Mayflower, Jolly Jane, and Sierra Blanca 2012 PQ core drilling. A total of 23 column leach tests have been run at McClelland Laboratories at a particle size of 80% passing -19 mm (-3/4 inch) for the four resource areas. The process recovery assumptions reflect consideration of particle size resulting from ultra-high intensity blasting with a particle size of P80 -84mm (-3.3 inch), similar to a primary crushing product, scaling for the effects of vertical lift heights of > 10m (30 ft) and a leach time of 1000 days. The leach pad production model predicts an average gold recovery of 74%, and an average silver recovery of 6% of the fire assay grade.
A summary of the PEA results for the base case gold price assumption of US $1,200 is listed in Table 9. Table 10 lists Key Physical data from the project concept and production plan. Working capital and initial fills, which are recovered at the end of year 1 and at the end of the project respectively, were estimated to be US $16.4 M. Operating costs included in the PEA were based on mining, processing, administration and reclamation, and are listed in Table 11, where they are normalized to process tonnage and recovered gold ounces. Total LOM cash operating costs are projected to be US $635 / produced Au oz and LOM capital cost (adjusted for recovery of pre-strip mining, working capital recovery and initial fills recovery) was estimated to be an additional US $206 / produced Au oz.
The Company cautions that the PEA is preliminary in nature, and is based on technical and economic assumptions which will be further evaluated in more advanced studies. The PEA is based on the North Bullfrog resource model (as at June 16, 2015) which consists of material in the measured, indicated and inferred classifications. Inferred mineral resources are considered too speculative geologically to have the economic considerations applied to them that would enable them to be categorized as mineral reserves. The current basis of project information is not sufficient to convert the mineral resources to mineral reserves, and mineral resources that are not mineral reserves do not have demonstrated economic viability. Accordingly, there can be no certainty that the results estimated in this PEA will be realized. The PEA results are only intended as an initial, first-pass review of the potential project economics based on preliminary information. The PEA is not an SEC Industry Guide 7 compliant feasibility study and is not sufficient to support proven or probable reserves under SEC Industry Guide 7.
Table 8: North Bullfrog Project - PEA Summary Results
(values in 2015 US$ based on $1,200 gold price, mining recoverable resources defined by pit shells
and 0.52 g/t gold mill breakeven grade and 0.15 g/t gold heap leach breakeven grade)
* - Silver:Gold price ratio = 73.7
Table 9: Base Case Gold Price Sensitivity Analysis - North Bullfrog Project
(cash basis, all values in constant 2015 US$)
* - considers production royalties, Nevada mineral net proceeds and US Federal Income Tax
Table 10: PEA Key Physical Data - North Bullfrog Mill & Heap Leach Project
*-excludes leach pad rinse period at end of mine
Table 11: Operating Costs - North Bullfrog Mill & Heap Leach Project (Constant 2015 US$)
Estimated capital costs are listed in Table 12, where they are divided between initial and sustaining capital. The initial capital is estimated to be US $175.4M which includes equipment and construction, EPCM and Contingency. Sustaining capital includes leach pad expansions, mobile equipment purchases and rebuilds. Life of mine sustaining capital is estimated to be US $83.3 M.
Table 12: PEA Initial Capital Estimate - North Bullfrog Project
Scheduled resource and mining geometries for the PEA were defined by Lerch Grossman optimization using a US $900 gold price, current prevailing mining costs, and the latest metallurgical data for the project.
Proposed Activities
The PEA results, for the combined mill and heap leach configuration, indicate the substantial impact on the potential project performance of the higher grade vein and vein stockwork mineralization. Therefore it is recommended that future exploration should focus on the identification of other structural related mineralization. These recommended activities for an initial phase are:
·Drill structures identified in the Eastern Steam-heated Alteration Zone
·Explore Structural Targets around Sierra Blanca
·Continue Baseline Data Collection
The projected costs for the next phase of this program are outlined in Table 13.
Table 13: Proposed Budget to Support Recommended Program at NBP
We presently estimate that the foregoing programs will have an approximate cost of US$1.0 million to the end of the current calendar year at December 31, 2015, and we presently have the funds to carry out this work.
Through the end of our current fiscal year at May 31, 2016, we anticipate that we will have aggregate annual expenditures on the NBP of approximately US$5.9 M.
As noted above, we began phase I of our 2015 drilling program on April 23, 2015, with initial results announced on July 9, 2015. Phase II of our 2015 drilling program began on August 11, 2015. The 8,000 metre reverse circulation (RC) drill program will focus on two main areas 1) testing new high-grade discovery targets in the large unexplored Eastern Steam-heated Zone; 2) defining new high-grade systems similar to the recent YellowJacket discovery in and around the large resource areas in the NW part of the property. The program follows up on new geologic, structural and mineralization results from the initial spring 2015 phase I drilling program.
The phase II drill program will test a number of priority new discovery and resource expansion targets in and around the existing North Bullfrog deposits. Two of these targets were tested in the early 2015 phase I, “proof of concept” drilling program, the results of which have confirmed the key structural and mineralization controls. In addition, a number of other structural/high-grade targets will be tested in the greater Sierra Blanca and Jolly Jane areas including the Air Track/366 target and North YellowJacket.
Alaska Properties
LMS Project
In October 2014, the Company published a NI 43-101 Technical Report entitled “Technical Report on the LMS Gold Project, Goodpaster Mining District, Alaska,” which contained the Company’s first Mineral Resource estimate at the property. The report was prepared by Ed Hunter, P. Geo. of Hunter Geo Logic, Inc. of Lee Creek, B.C, Canada and by Gary Giroux, P. Eng., of Giroux Consultants Ltd. Of Vancouver, B.C, Canada. The mineral resource estimate, effective date of August 1, 2014, was calculated incorporating new drilling conducted by the Company’s prior JV partner where the primary target has been a folded stratiform breccia horizon. This additional drill information and review allowed for a reinterpretation of the structural controls on the highest grade veins (713 g/t gold and 139 g/t silver over 1.8 metres in hole LM-06-29) which suggested that previous drilling has left the potential of the project untested . Table 14 lists the grade-tonnage data for the Inferred Resource, and shows a value of 0.5 g/t highlighted as a possible cut-off grade for open pit mining.
Table 14: The grade-tonnage table for the LMS Inferred Resource with a number of cut-off grades.
At this time an economic cut-off is unknown and a value of 0.5 g/t Au has been highlighted
as a possible open pit cut-off.
Cautionary Note to US Investors: The term Inferred Resource as described in Table 14 above are as defined in Canadian National Instrument 43-101. This term is not defined under SEC Industry Guide 7 and is not recognized by the SEC. This estimated mineral resource is not SEC Industry Guide 7 proven and probable reserves. See “Cautionary Note to US Investors Regarding Mineral Reserve and Resource Estimates” above.
The LMS claim block is located in the Goodpaster mining district and consists of 92 Alaska state mining claims covering 61 square kilometres and owned 100% by Raven Gold (“LMS”). Drilling at LMS has been designed primarily to cut the stratiform breccia horizon which hosts the currently reported resource. However, high-grade vein mineralization has been encountered in the rock unit below this zone (gneiss) in every drilling campaign. Corvus has not carried out any drilling at LMS. The initial drilling in 2005 - 2006 was carried out by Corvus’ predecessors in interest. The drilling programs in 2010 and 2011 were carried out by First Star Resources Inc., Corvus’ prior joint venture partner, and were designed with the idea that the high-grade veins had a northeast strike. While this drilling failed to establish any continuity in that direction, the drilling did encounter significant veining and these results, together with an improved definition of the fold geometry, provided the data which has allowed a reinterpretation of the vein controls. At present, there is insufficient data to delineate a resource in these high-grade zones but they provide a clear target for future exploration. Initial metallurgical test work on the mineralization at LMS has indicated that high gold recoveries (95%) can be obtained with simple gravity separation followed by cyanidation, similar to the process used at the Pogo Mine to the north.
We do not consider LMS to be material to the Company, the project does not have any SEC Industry Guide 7 proven and probable reserves and the project is exploratory in nature. A small exploration program was carried out at LMS in calendar 2014, but no exploration program is planned for calendar 2015.
Corvus has granted Millrock Resources Inc. (Millrock) an exclusive right to enter into an option agreement for the purchase of its LMS project also in the Goodpaster Mining District of Alaska until September 1, 2015. The agreement specifies:
·Total cash component for the asset will total US$775,000 over 5 years.
·Corvus retained NSR royalty of 3% on precious metals and 1% on base metals with 1% of the precious metal royalty buy down for US$4 million.
West Pogo Project
In July 2015, Corvus’s wholly owned Alaskan subsidiary, Raven Gold Alaska Inc. (“Raven”), completed a transaction with Millrock Resources Inc. (“Millrock”) on the Company’s West Pogo and Goodpaster database projects in Alaska, which were considered to be non-core assets to Corvus. The ownership position was sold for cash and Corvus retained net smelter return (“NSR”) royalties, as further discussed below. Cash from the transaction will be used to fund ongoing exploration of the North Bullfrog project in Nevada.
The royalty interest will provide the initial assets for a new portfolio developed to provide a potential future gold production interest to the Company.
A summary of the sale transactions are listed below:
·Two projects included are the West Pogo project and the Goodpaster database.
·Total cash component for the two assets totals US$120,000.
·For the West Pogo project, Corvus retained NSR royalty of 3% on precious metals and 1% on base metals with 1% of the precious metal royalty buy down for US$2 million and a further 1% for an additional US$5 million.
·For the Goodpaster database, Corvus retained NSR royalty of 1% on all new claims acquired within the defined Area Of Interest (AOI) which totals some 1,500 square kilometres covering the largest gold producing District in Alaska. One half of the royalty can be purchased for US$2 million.
Chisna Project
The Chisna Project is focused on a new and emerging Alaskan copper-gold porphyry belt of deposits with copper and gold mineralization associated with mid-Cretaceous intrusions of similar age and style to the Pebble deposit to the west and Orange Hill deposit to the east. The current property position includes 394 State of Alaska mining claims comprising 45,640 acres.
No additional exploration work has been carried out on the Chisna project since the completion of the calendar 2014 field season.
A modest exploration program was performed in 2014 in order to meet expenditure obligations for the State of Alaska claims and the Company is actively marketing the property.
We do not consider the Chisna Project to be material to the Company, the project does not have any SEC Industry Guide 7 proven and probable reserves and the project is exploratory in nature.
Other Developments
Additional Claim Staking and Leases
In December 2014, an additional 56 Federal mining claims were staked and filed with the Bureau of Land Management expanding the property to the south and southeast. These claims extend coverage of an area of steam-heated alteration delineated by mapping in 2014.
In addition, in March 2015, Lunar Landing, LLC signed a lease agreement with Corvus Nevada covering private property containing the three patented Sunflower claims, which are adjacent to the Yellowrose claims leased in 2014 (Figure 2). The term of the lease is 3 years with provision to extend the lease for an additional 7 years, and an advance minimum royalty payment of USD 5,000 per year with USD 5,000 paid upon signing. The lease includes a 4% NSR royalty on production, with an option to purchase the royalty for USD 500,000 per 1% or USD 2,000,000 for the entire 4% royalty. The lease also includes the option to purchase the property for USD 300,000.
Qualified Person and Quality Control/Quality Assurance
Jeffrey A. Pontius (CPG 11044), a qualified person as defined by National Instrument 43-101, has supervised the preparation of the scientific and technical information that forms the basis for the NBP disclosure in this Annual Report on Form 10-K (other than the NBP mineral resource estimate) and has reviewed and approved the disclosure herein. Mr. Pontius is not independent of the Company, as he is the CEO and holds common shares and incentive stock options.
The exploration program at the NBP was supervised by Mark Reischman, Nevada Exploration Manager, who was responsible for all aspects of the work, including the quality control/quality assurance program. On-site personnel at the project log and track all samples prior to sealing and shipping. All sample shipments are sealed and shipped to ALS Minerals in Reno, Nevada, for preparation and then on to ALS Minerals in Reno, Nevada, or Vancouver, B.C., for assay. McClelland Laboratories Inc. prepared composites from duplicated RC sample splits collected during drilling. Bulk samples were sealed on site and delivered to McClelland Laboratories Inc. by ALS Minerals or Corvus personnel. All metallurgical testing reported here was conducted or managed by McClelland Laboratories Inc.
Carl Brechtel (Colorado PE 23212 and Nevada PE 8744), a qualified person as defined by National Instrument 43-101, has supervised the NBP metallurgical testing program and has reviewed and approved the disclosure in this Annual Report on Form 10-K related thereto. Mr. Brechtel is not independent of the Company, as he is the Chief Operating Officer and holds common shares and incentive stock options.
Mr. Scott E. Wilson, CPG, President of Metal Mining Consultants Inc., is an independent consulting geologist specializing in Mineral Reserve and Resource calculation reporting, mining project analysis and due diligence evaluations. He acted as the Qualified Person, as defined in NI 43-101, for the overall NBP Technical Report, and the Mineral Resource estimate. Mr. Wilson has over 26 years of experience in surface mining and is a Registered Member (#4025107RM) of Society for Mining, Metallurgy and Exploration, Inc. Mr. Wilson and Metal Mining Consultants, Inc. are independent of the Company under NI 43-101. Mr. Wilson has reviewed and approved the NBP Mineral Resource estimate contained herein.
Mr. Stephen Batman, Principal Engineer at SBB Mining Solution LLC, is an independent consulting mining engineer specializing in mine design, production scheduling, pit optimization and equipment specification. He acted as the Qualified Person, as defined in NI 43-101, for the mining methods section of the NBP Technical Report. Mr. Batman has over 29 years of experience in the mining industry and is a Registered Member (#181580RM) of the Society for Mining, Metallurgy and Exploration, Inc. Mr Batman and SBB Mining Solution LLC are independent of the Company under NI 43-101.
Mr. Herbert Osborne, SME, a consulting metallurgist, has acted as the Qualified Person, as defined by NI 43-101, for evaluation of the metallurgical testing data and estimation of the process metallurgical recoveries. He has over 50 years of experience in mineral process design and operations. He is a Registered Member of the Society of Mining, Metallurgy and Exploration (#2430050 RM). Mr. Osborne is independent of the Company under NI 43-101.
Mr. William J. Pennstrom, Jr., a consulting process engineer and President of Pennstrom Consulting Inc., has acted as the Qualified Person, as defined by NI 43-101, for process operating cost estimation, project capital cost estimation and evaluation of the financial performance for the PEA. He has over 30 years of experience in mineral process design and operation, and has been an independent process and metallurgical consultant for the mining industry for the last thirteen years. He is a Registered Member of the Society of Mining, Metallurgy and Exploration (#2503900RM). Mr. Pennstrom and Pennstrom Consulting Inc. are both independent of the Company under NI 43-101.
ALS Minerals’ quality system complies with the requirements for the International Standards ISO 9001:2000 and ISO 17025:1999. Analytical accuracy and precision are monitored by the analysis of reagent blanks, reference material and replicate samples. Quality control is further assured by the use of international and in-house standards. Finally, representative blind duplicate samples are forwarded to ALS Minerals and an ISO compliant third party laboratory for additional quality control.
McClelland Analytical Services Laboratory Inc. of Sparks, NV is an ISO 17025 accredited facility that supplies quantitative chemical analysis in support of metallurgical, exploration and environmental testing using classic methods and modern analytical instrumentation. McClelland has met the requirements of the IAS Accredidations Criteria for Testing Laboratories (AC89), has demonstrated compliance with ANS/ISO/IEC Standard 17025:2005, General requirements for the competence of testing and calibration laboratories, and has been accredited, commencing November 12, 2012.
Mr. Ed Hunter, P.Geo., BSc., a consulting geologist employed by Hunter Geo Logic Inc., acted as the Qualified Person, as defined in NI 43-101, for all portions of the LMS Technical Report, including the description of the general site information, the mineral exploration and the site geology, and data verification portions, other than the mineral resource estimate. Mr. Hunter has over 44 years of experience in all aspects of exploration and is member in good standing of the Association of Professional Engineers and Geoscientists of the Province of British Columbia. Both Mr. Hunter and Hunter Geo Logic Inc. are independent of the Company under NI 43-101.
Mr. Gary Giroux, M.Sc., P. Eng (B.C.), a consulting geological engineer employed by Giroux Consultants Ltd., acted as the Qualified Person, as defined in NI 43-101, for the Giroux Consultants Ltd. mineral resource estimate portion of the LMS Technical Report. He has over 30 years of experience in all stages of mineral exploration, development and production. Mr. Giroux specializes in computer applications in ore reserve estimation, and has consulted both nationally and internationally in this field. He has authored many papers on geostatistics and ore reserve estimation and has practiced as a Geological Engineer since 1970 and provided geostatistical services to the industry since 1976. Both Mr. Giroux and Giroux Consultants Ltd. are independent of the Company under NI 43-101.
ITEM 3.