Item 2. Properties
Our Properties
The following table provides a comprehensive list of our properties as of December 31, 2014:
_______________________________________________________________________________
(1)
This property is currently closed for renovation.
(2)
This hotel is owned through a joint venture in which we own a 98.1% economic interest. We are the managing member of this joint venture and control all material decisions related to this hotel. Our joint venture partner is affiliated with the hotel's property manager.
Our Hotel Management Agreements
In order to qualify as a REIT, we cannot directly or indirectly operate any of our hotels. We lease our hotels to TRS lessees, which in turn engage property managers to manage our hotels. Each of our hotels is operated pursuant to a hotel management agreement with one of 16 independent hotel management companies. Each hotel management company receives a base management fee and is also eligible to receive an incentive management fee upon the achievement of certain financial benchmarks set forth in each applicable management agreement. The incentive management fee is generally calculated as a percentage of hotel operating profit after we have received a priority return on our investment in the hotel. WLS, a fully-integrated owner, developer and manager of premium-brand hotels, is the management company for 93 of our hotels and the remaining hotels are managed by 15 other hotel management companies located in the United States. Below is a summary of the principal terms of the hotel management agreements with WLS and a general overview of our non-WLS hotel management agreements.
WLS Hotel Management Agreements
Our TRS lessees, as lessees of the respective hotels, have entered into hotel management agreements with WLS for 93 of our hotels. This summary is qualified in its entirety by reference to the form of the WLS hotel management agreement included as an exhibit to this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Term
Our WLS hotel management agreements contain initial terms of 10 to 20 years and are subject to two automatic renewal terms of five to 10 years each. The WLS hotel management agreements have an average remaining initial term of approximately 12 years.
Amounts Payable under our WLS Hotel Management Agreements
Under the WLS hotel management agreements, WLS receives a base management fee and, if certain financial thresholds are met or exceeded, an incentive management fee. The base management fee is generally 4.0% of gross hotel revenues for the applicable hotel. Gross hotel revenue is calculated as all hotel revenue before subtracting expenses. The incentive management fee, which is calculated on a per hotel basis, is 15% of operating profit (as defined in the applicable management agreements) remaining after we receive an annual return equal to 11% of our total capital investment, including debt, in the applicable hotels. We also pay certain computer support and accounting service fees to WLS, as reflected in each hotel management agreement.
Termination Events
Performance Termination. We have structured our WLS management agreements to align our interests with those of WLS by providing us with a right to terminate a WLS management agreement if WLS fails to achieve certain criteria relating to the performance of a hotel under WLS management, as measured with respect to any two consecutive fiscal years. We may initiate a performance termination if, during any two consecutive year period, (1) an independent hotel consulting expert, agreed to by both WLS and us, determines that the operating profit of the affected hotel is less than the operating profit of comparable hotels as determined by the independent hotel consulting expert, and (2) the RevPAR penetration index fails to exceed a specified RevPAR penetration index threshold, as set forth in the applicable management agreement. WLS has the right, which can be exercised no more than three times per hotel, to avoid a performance termination by paying an amount equal to the amount that the operating profit fell below the annual operating budgets for the relevant performance termination period, as reflected in each WLS management agreement, or by agreeing to offset the operating budget difference against future management fees due to WLS.
Early Termination for Casualty/Condemnation or Cause. Subject to certain qualifications and applicable cure periods, the hotel management agreements are generally terminable by either party upon material casualty or condemnation of the hotel or the occurrence of certain customary events of default, including, among others: the bankruptcy or insolvency of either party; the failure of either party to make a payment when due, and failure to cure such non-payment after due notice; failure by us to provide WLS with sufficient working capital to operate the hotel after due notice; breach by either party of covenants or obligations under a WLS hotel management agreement; and failure by us to complete work approved or required under the terms of the hotel's franchise agreement and the applicable WLS management agreement.
If an event of default occurs and continues beyond the grace period set forth in the WLS hotel management agreement, the non-defaulting party generally has, among other remedies, the option of terminating the applicable hotel management agreement, upon at least 30 days' written notice to the other party.
Early Termination by WLS-Liquidated Damages. In the event that WLS elects to terminate a WLS hotel management agreement due to an event of default by us, WLS may elect to recover a termination fee, as liquidated damages, equal to 2.5 times the actual base management fee and incentive management fee earned by WLS under that hotel management agreement in the fiscal year immediately preceding the fiscal year in which such termination occurred.
Sale of a Hotel
Each WLS hotel management agreement provides that we cannot sell the applicable hotel to any unrelated third party or engage in certain change of control actions (1) if we are in default under the hotel management agreement or (2) with or to a person or entity that is known in the community as being of bad moral character or has been convicted of a felony or is in control of or controlled by persons convicted of a felony or would be in violation of any franchise agreement requirements applicable to us. Each WLS hotel management agreement further requires that any future owner of the applicable hotel, at the option of WLS, assume the WLS hotel management agreement or enter into a new WLS hotel management agreement for such hotel.
Other Hotel Management Agreements
As of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, 51 of our hotels are managed by 15 hotel management companies other than WLS. This number includes five and ten hotels that receive the benefits of a franchise agreement pursuant to management agreements with Marriott and Hyatt, respectively. Each of these hotels is subject to a hotel management agreement that contains customary terms and conditions that generally are similar to the provisions found in the WLS hotel management agreements described above. The hotel management agreements generally have initial terms that range from three to 25 years, and some provide for one or two automatic extension periods ranging from one to ten years. In addition, each hotel management company receives a base management fee ranging from 2.5% and 4.0% of gross hotel revenues. Management agreements that include the benefits of a franchise agreement incur a base management fee generally between 5.0% and 7.0% of hotel revenues. Management companies may also earn an incentive management fee ranging from 10% to 25% of available
cash flow (or other similar metric) as set forth in the applicable management agreement, calculated on a per hotel basis, generally equal to the operating profit of the hotel after deducting a priority return to us based upon a percentage of our total capital investment in the hotels. Each of the non-WLS hotel management agreements also provides us with a right to terminate such management agreement if the hotel management company fails to reach certain performance targets (as provided in the applicable management agreement) or provides us with a right to terminate the management agreement in our sole and absolute discretion. In addition, certain management agreements give us the right to terminate the management agreement upon the sale of the hotel or for any reason upon payment of a stipulated termination fee. The performance targets vary, but generally provide us with the right to terminate the applicable hotel management agreement if the operating profit of the hotel is less than 90% to 95% of the budget targets set forth pursuant to such management agreement and/or the RevPAR is less than 90% to 115% of comparable hotels. The hotel management agreements are also generally terminable by either party upon material casualty or condemnation of the hotel or the occurrence of certain customary events of default.
Franchise Agreements
As of December 31, 2014, 88, 31 and five of our hotels operated under franchise agreements with Marriott, Hilton and Hyatt, respectively. These numbers exclude five and ten hotels that receive the benefits of a franchise agreement pursuant to management agreements with Marriott and Hyatt, respectively. The remaining five hotels that we own as of December 31, 2014 operate under existing franchise agreements with brands other than Marriott, Hilton or Hyatt.
Franchisors provide a variety of benefits to franchisees, including centralized reservation systems, national advertising, marketing programs and publicity designed to increase brand awareness, training of personnel and maintenance of operational quality at hotels across the brand system. The franchise agreements generally specify management, operational, record-keeping, accounting, reporting and marketing standards and procedures with which our TRS lessees, as the franchisees, must comply. The franchise agreements obligate our TRS lessees to comply with the franchisors' standards and requirements, including training of operational personnel, safety, maintaining specified insurance, the types of services and products ancillary to guest room services that may be provided by the TRS lessee, display of signage and the type, quality and age of furniture, fixtures and equipment included in guest rooms, lobbies and other common areas. Each of the existing franchise agreements for our hotels require that we pay a royalty fee generally between 3.0% and 6.0% of room revenue, plus additional fees for marketing, central reservation systems and other franchisor costs that amount to between 1.0% and 4.3% of room revenue. Certain hotels are also charged a royalty fee of between 1.0% and 3.0% of food and beverage revenues. In addition, under certain of our franchise agreements, the franchisor may require that we renovate guest rooms and public facilities from time to time to comply with then-current brand standards.
The franchise agreements also provide for termination at the applicable franchisor's option upon the occurrence of certain events, including failure to pay royalties and fees or to perform other obligations under the franchise license, bankruptcy and abandonment of the franchise or a change in control. The TRS lessee that is the franchisee is responsible for making all payments under the applicable franchise agreement to the franchisor; however we are required to guarantee the obligations under each of the franchise agreements. In addition, many of our existing franchise agreements provide the franchisor with a right of first offer in the event of certain sales or transfers of a hotel and provide that the franchisor has the right to approve any change in the hotel management company engaged to manage the hotel.
TRS Leases
In order for us to qualify as a REIT, neither our company nor any of our subsidiaries, including the operating partnership, may directly or indirectly operate our hotels. Subsidiaries of our operating partnership, as lessors, lease our hotels to our TRS lessees, which, in turn, are parties to the existing hotel management agreements with third-party hotel management companies for each of our hotels. The TRS leases for our hotels contain the provisions described below. We intend that leases with respect to hotels acquired in the future will contain substantially similar provisions to those described below; however, we may, in our discretion, alter any of these provisions with respect to any particular lease.
Lease Terms
Leases have initial terms that range from three to five years and a majority of the leases can be renewed by our TRS lessees for three successive five-year renewal terms unless the lessee is in default at the expiration of the then-current term. In addition, our TRS leases are subject to early termination by us in the event that we sell the hotel to an unaffiliated party, a change in control occurs or applicable provisions of the Code are amended to permit us to operate our hotels. Our leases are also subject to early termination upon the occurrence of certain events of default and/or other contingencies described in the lease.
Amounts Payable under the Leases
During the term of each TRS lease, our TRS lessees are obligated to pay us a fixed annual base rent plus a percentage rent and certain other additional charges that our TRS lessees agree to pay under the terms of the respective TRS lease. Percentage rent is calculated based on revenues generated from guest rooms, food and beverage sales, and certain other sources, including meeting rooms and movie rentals. Base and percentage rents are paid to us monthly and any additional charges are paid to us when due.
Other than certain capital expenditures for the building and improvements, which are obligations of the lessor, the leases require our TRS lessees to pay rent, all costs and expenses, franchise fees, ground rent (if applicable), property taxes and certain insurance, and all utility and other charges incurred in the operation of the hotels they lease. The leases also provide for rent reductions and abatements in the event of damage to, or destruction or a partial taking of, any hotel.
All of the above mentioned transactions eliminate in consolidation.
Maintenance and Modifications
Under each TRS lease, the TRS lessee may, at its expense, make additions, modifications or improvements to the hotel that it deems desirable and that we approve. In addition, our TRS lessees are required, at their expense, to maintain the hotels in good order and repair, except for ordinary wear and tear, and to make repairs that may be necessary and appropriate to keep the hotel in good order and repair. Under the TRS lease, we are responsible for maintaining, at our cost, any underground utilities or structural elements, including exterior walls and the roof of the hotel (excluding, among other things, windows and mechanical, electrical and plumbing systems). Each TRS lessee, when and as required to meet the standards of the applicable hotel management agreement, any applicable hotel franchise agreement or to satisfy the requirements of any lender, must establish an FF&E reserve in an amount equal to up to 5% of gross revenue for the purpose of periodically repairing, replacing or refurbishing furnishings and equipment.
Events of Default
Events of default under each of the leases include, among others: the failure by a TRS lessee to pay rent when due; the breach by a TRS lessee of a covenant, condition or term under the lease, subject to the applicable cure period; the bankruptcy or insolvency of a TRS lessee; cessation of operations by a TRS lessee of the leased hotel for more than 30 days, except as a result of damage, destruction, or a partial or complete condemnation; or the default by a TRS lessee under a franchise agreement subject to any applicable cure period.
Termination of Leases on Disposition of the Hotels or Change of Control
In the event that we sell a hotel to a non-affiliate or a change of control occurs, we generally have the right to terminate the lease by paying the applicable TRS lessee a termination fee to be governed by the terms and conditions of the lease.
Ground Leases
As of December 31, 2014, eight of our hotels were subject to ground leases that cover the land underlying the respective hotels:
•
The Residence Inn Chicago Oak Brook is subject to a ground lease with an initial term that expires on March 6, 2100. During the initial term of the ground lease, the total rent is $1.56 million, which was paid in a lump sum upon commencement of the ground lease in 2001. After the initial term, we may extend the ground lease for an additional renewal term of 99 years for $1. Under certain circumstances set forth in the ground lease, we have the option to acquire the land underlying the Residence Inn Chicago Oak Brook.
•
The Courtyard Austin Downtown Convention Center and the Residence Inn Austin Downtown Convention Center, which are situated on the same parcel of land, are subject to a single ground lease with a term that expires on November 14, 2100. In addition to an aggregate annual rent of $0.4 million, we must pay annual percentage rent in the amount by which 3.25% of the total amount of rents for all guest rooms, meeting rooms or conference room exceeds total annual base rent. Under certain circumstances set forth in the ground lease, we will need to obtain the consent of the ground lessor prior to transferring our interest in the ground lease.
•
The Hilton Garden Inn Bloomington is subject to a ground lease with an initial term that expires on January 30, 2053. During the initial term of the ground lease, the total rent is $490, payable in 10 equal annual installments of $49 each, commencing on December 2, 2024. After expiration of the initial term, the ground lease will be automatically extended for five successive 10-year renewal terms unless we give notice of non-renewal or there is an uncured event of default (as defined in the ground lease) at the expiration of the then-current term. Under certain circumstances set
forth in the ground lease, we will need to obtain the consent of the ground lessor prior to transferring our interest in the ground lease. The Hilton Garden Inn Bloomington is also subject to an agreement to lease parking spaces with an initial term extending out to 2033. The agreement to lease parking spaces may be extended if certain events occur. The agreement provides for a monthly rental payment based on city ordinance rates (at December 31, 2014 the rate was approximately $2 per month) and the number of parking spaces reserved for the exclusive use of the hotel, plus amounts based on actual usage in excess of the reserved spaces.
•
The Marriott Louisville Downtown is subject to a ground lease with an initial term that expires on June 25, 2053. The annual rent for the initial term of the ground lease is $1 plus a profits participation payment equal to 25% of the amount that net income during any year during the lease term exceeds a specified investment return as calculated based on the terms of the ground lease. After expiration of the initial term, the ground lease will be automatically extended for four successive 25-year terms unless we give notice of non-renewal or there is an uncured event of default (as defined in the ground lease) at the expiration of the then-current term. Under certain circumstances set forth in the ground lease, we will need to obtain the consent of the ground lessor prior to transferring our interest in the ground lease.
•
The Hampton Inn Garden City is subject to a sublease of a ground lease with a term that expires on December 31, 2016. The sublease is associated with an agreement for payment in lieu of taxes and will revert to fee simple ownership at the end of the ground lease. The annual rent for the term of the sublease is $1. In addition, an annual compliance fee of $1,000 is required under the terms of the ground lease. Under certain circumstances set forth in the sublease, we will need to obtain the consent of the ground sublessor prior to transferring our interest in the sublease.
•
A portion of the site of the Courtyard Charleston Historic District is subject to a ground lease with a term that expires on October 1, 2096. The current annual base rent of $0.8 million continues until 2021, after which the annual base rent increases periodically during the term of the ground lease to a maximum of $1.0 million. In addition to base rent, we are required to pay, as percentage rent, 1.5% of gross quarterly collected room revenue (from no more than 126 rooms per night). We are also responsible for paying all taxes, utilities and other costs associated with the ownership and operation of the property. All FF&E is deemed to be part of the leased premises. The ground lessor has a security interest in FF&E, which will become the property of the ground lessor upon termination or expiration of ground lease. We and the ground lessor each have the right to match any offer to purchase the hotel should the other party desire to sell their interest in the property. We are required to obtain the ground lessor's consent (which may not be unreasonably withheld) in connection with any change in the hotel management company.
•
The Courtyard Waikiki Beach is subject to a ground lease with a term extending to 2112. The annual ground rent is $3.5 million through 2016, after which the annual rent shall increase by the increase, if any, in the Consumer Price Index ("CPI") from the immediately preceding calendar year. The increase is limited to 5.0% per annum for the first 10 years in which the annual rent is subject to increase, and 6.0% per annum during the seven subsequent years in which the annual rent is subject to increase. Thereafter, there is no cap on the increase in the CPI.
The foregoing ground leases and ground subleases generally require us to pay all charges, costs, expenses, assessments and liabilities relating to ownership and operation of the properties, including real property taxes and utilities, and to obtain and maintain insurance covering the subject property.
Item 3.