ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
Due to the mineral property impairment recorded in fiscal 2011, at present the Company has no mineral property balances which are classified as assets under generally accepted accounting principles.
Summary Description and Location
The Judy Claims are located 2 km (1.5 miles) northeast of Cassiar, British Columbia, Canada and lie at high elevation on McDame Mountain. The area has a long history of mineral exploration. The geological setting is a structurally complex area of Sylvester allochthon and Cassiar batholith granitic intrusions and appears favorable for the discovery of epithermal gold and silver deposits. The tenures comprise an area of 627.96 hectares (1551.68 acres) (see figures 4 and 5) and are road accessible at elevations from approximately 1100 meters (3600 feet) to more than 1500 meters (5000 feet). (Please see Glossary of Certain Technical Terms on page 23 for definitions of geological terms used herein).
Regional History
The general Liard mining district of northwest British Columbia since 1874 has been a prolific producer of placer gold and is the site of several important deposits of metallic and non-metallic minerals. The area has been in recent years mapped by scientists from the British Columbia provincial Ministry of Energy and Mines who expanded upon the pioneering studies of the Canadian federal Geological Survey of Canada (especially Gabrielse, 1963 and Price, 1949-53) and the formerly enigmatic geology of the area has been rationalized and revealed in publications of that Ministry. Ground acquisition prospecting and mineral explorations activities currently are being pursued at a very elevated pace with particular attention to gold, molybdenum, and base metal occurrences. Placer mining operations continue to yield important amounts of gold each year.
The Cassiar area was subjected to several episodes of mineral exploration and prospecting. The earliest of which resulted from the Hudson Bay fur buying activity on the Dease River leading to the discovery of placer gold on McDame Creek in 1874.
R. Sylvester established a trading post at the mouth of McDame Creek in 1872. The post was taken over in 1875 by the Hudson Bay Company and maintained to 1943.
Placer gold was discovered on McDame Creek in 1874 and Walker Creek in 1877.
G. M. Dawson (1889), W. Pike (1896) and C. Camsell (1954) gave accounts of travel on and near Dease River before the turn of the century. The trail from Sandpile Creek, east of Deadwood Lake, to McDame and Lower Post was described by J.D. Moodie of the Royal North-west Mounted Police in a report on a trip from Edmonton to the Yukon (1899). Equipment for the construction of Watson Lake airport in 1941 was brought by barge down Dease River from Dease Lake to Lower Post. About this time a paddle-wheel steamer was used on Dease River between Lower Post and McDame Post. After limited service the steamer was wrecked in Two Mile Rapids.
Construction of the Alaska Highway in 1942-1943 contributed greatly to the development of the area. During the winter of 1946-47 Moccasin Mines Limited, with the assistance of the British Columbia government, constructed a road from the Alaska Highway to McDame Creek. This road provided the first all-land route to the area and thus stimulated prospecting and exploration.
The Cassiar Asbestos deposit was staked in 1950 and from that time the town of Cassiar grew until the mine closure in 1994.
In the middle years of the last century, helicopter usage facilitated access to the wilderness areas beyond the Stewart Cassiar Highway corridor and concomitantly geochemical survey techniques came into use. Unlike the development of the mining industry in the central parts of the province where many porphyry-type copper and copper-molybdenum deposits were discovered and, in many cases, placed in production, no similar mines resulted from that work. Several gold occurrences however received substantial amounts of exploration.
Mineral search in the Cassiar area has been mostly inactive in recent decades and, as a generalization, the area can be described as being “under-explored”.
Starting in year 2003, there has been a dramatic revival of prospecting activity in all of British Columbia. The Cassiar district has benefited from renewed enthusiasm and confidence within the mining industry that has resulted from the escalation of metal prices and the recovery of the junior mineral exploration sector. It has been the site of much claim staking and acquisition.
Description of Properties
Ownership Interest
On July 22, 2010, the Company purchased the Judy 1 claim tenure 1024577 and the McDame Mountain claim tenure 1024578 (collectively the ‘Judy Claims’) located in Northwest British Columbia, Canada from Mr. S.G. Diakow, an independent prospector. The Judy Claims are presently registered to Mr. S.G. Diakow and are held in trust for Dane Exploration Inc. A mineral exploration license is issued for one year. In order to maintain the claims, we must we must perform work on the claims or pay a fee in lieu of work expenditures. As long as the fees are paid, no work has to be performed to maintain the claims in good order. The renewal fees may increase in the future. We do not own any real property interest in the claims or any other property.
The Company plans to explore and potentially develop the Judy Claims. In order to maintain its mineral claim tenure titles in good standing it is necessary for the Company or its agent to perform and record physical or other acceptable work with a prescribed value per hectare per year during each yearly period mandated by the British Columbia Mineral Titles Branch (each such period covering July 1st to June 30th of the following year).
Based on the extension of the claims to December 24, 2014, further work expenditures must be performed as follows to maintain the claims: $nil fiscal year 2013; $6,194 for fiscal year 2014; $9,419 for fiscal year 2015; $11,052 for fiscal year 2016; $12,559 for fiscal year 2017 and for each subsequent fiscal year. Alternatively, if payments in lieu of work performed are used to maintain the claims, these costs translate to $nil for fiscal year 2013; $12,387 for fiscal year 2014; $18,839 for fiscal year 2015; $22,104 for fiscal year 2016; $25,118 for fiscal year 2017 and for each subsequent fiscal year. Failure to do work or pay the cash in lieu of work will result in forfeiture of title.
Access
The Judy Claims are located at high elevation in a dissected plateau terrane and for practical purposes are best accessed by 4 wheel drive vehicle or an all terrain vehicle. Highway 37, the old paved Stewart-Cassiar highway which was used to truck asbestos to the Pacific Ocean Port at Stewart, B.C. passes along the southern claim boundary of the Judy Claims. At this juncture an old mining road climbs McDame Mountain to the centre of the Judy Claims block. Over 90% of the claim block is above tree line. The claims can be easily worked by driving to the property and staying at either the village of Cassiar or at Jade City on Highway 37. A local labor force is available at the native village of Good Hope Lake 20 kilometers (12.5 miles) north along Highway 37 from the claim access road.
Climate and Vegetation
The Cassiar Mountains receive moderate precipitation but the bordering areas, Stikine Plateau to the west and Dease Plateau and Liard Plain to the east are relatively dry. Average annual precipitation over a 12-year period at Watson Lake in the Liard Plain, as reported by the Meteorological Division of the Canadian Department of Transport in 1954, was 16.75 inches. Of which 7.70 inches fell as snow (77 inches of snow). In the Cassiar Mountains the average annual precipitation averages approximately between 20 and 30 inches per year.
June, July and August, are the warmest and wettest months during which unsettled weather is experienced and showers are frequent. In early August of 2009 temperatures of 85 degrees Fahrenheit (‘F’) were recorded on eight successive days. The average daily maximum temperature during the summer months, however, is generally between 50º and 70º F.
January and February are the coldest months and temperatures may fall below -60º F. Snowfall is light in Dease River valley west of the Horseranch Range and horses have wintered successfully without cut hay for many years near the north end of the range.
The months of June, July, August and September are most suitable for prospecting although snow may hamper work in the mountains until the middle of June and after mid-September.
Much of the area is below timber-line, about 4,500 feet above sea-level. White spruce and cottonwood are the largest trees and grow mainly in the moist but well-drained stream valleys. Gravel and sand terraces flanking the main streams support a growth of lodgepole pine, trembling aspen, and some birch. Black spruce and larch are abundant in poorly drained areas. Larch is particularly abundant in the valleys of Red, Deadwood and lower Dease Rivers. Dwarf birch, willow, balsam fir, slide alder, and juniper are locally abundant near timber-line. Willow grows along most of the stream courses. Willow, Labrador tea, sedges cotton grass, and peat moss are common in swamps and bogs.
Grassy slopes and meadows are found in many parts of the area and the tree-line is commonly at about 1500 metres (5000 feet).
Figure 1 - Map of Canada
Figure 2 - Satellite of View of Claim Area
Figure 3 - Map of British Columbia
Figure 4a - Map of British Columbia showing Judy Claims
Figure 4b - Map of British Columbia Detailing Judy Claims Tenures
Physiography
The Cassiar Mountains occupy the southwest and southern parts of the McDame map sheet National Topographic Series (NTS) 104 P. This is a rugged region exhibiting many features typical of alpine glaciations and having a maximum relief of about 4,000 feet. The principle rivers flow through the mountains in deep, relatively broad, U-shaped valleys. All streams belong to the Arctic drainage system and flow into Liard River or its tributaries. Structural trends in underlying rocks appear to be a major control for valleys of the southeasterly flowing part of Red River, Wadin Creek, and streams east of Solitary Lake. Elsewhere stream directions and structural trends in underlying bedrock are apparently not related.
Geology of Claims
The ground covered by the Judy claim group appears from maps in H. Gabrielse Memoir 319 to be underlain by Devonian Sylvester Group rocks that are in contact with Cassiar intrusives. The Judy Claims were located by map-staking following the British Columbia Mineral Titles Online process by Mr. S.G. Diakow. They are situated northeast of the Cassiar Batholith. and are located in Ancestral North America terrain in the northwesterly continuation of the Cassiar intrusives. In the vicinity of the Judy Claims there is a Cornucopia occurrence located on Quartzrock Creek about 9 kilometers east of Cassiar. This area is within the Sylvester allochthon, which is composed of Devonian-Triassic volcanic, sedimentary and ultramafic rocks, and these same rocks underlay the Judy Claims. The allochthon is locally bounded by the Cassiar batholilth to the west and overlies Paleozoic platformal rocks to the east.
Mineral Potential of the Judy 1 and McDame Mountain Claim Area
Mr. Diakow has been on the claim properties and reports that the properties have not previously been drilled; and that numerous quartz veins can be observed. These veins have not been sampled and therefore little is known about mineralization associated with the veins.
Regional Geology
Within the Cassiar-area, stratified, consolidated rocks of marine origin range in age from Proterozoic to Mississippian. The assemblage has been folded and faulted, and intruded by Mesozoic granitic rocks. The Intermontane Belt at this latitude is composed of predominantly Mesozoic arc volcanic and arc-derived sedimentary rocks some Tertiary sediments and basalts occur locally.
The Cassiar mining district is geologically varied and complex (Figure 5). It is bordered to the west by a series of small mountain ranges raised plateau’s and large fjord like lakes including some that are over a hundred miles in length. The plateaus are dominated by Mesozoic strata of mixed volcanic and volcanogenic formations. The central sector is a more mature terrain underlain by Devonian and Mississippian meta sediments of the Sylvester Group whereas the Intermontane Belt at this latitude is composed of predominantly Mesozoic arc volcanic and arc-derived sedimentary rocks. Sylvester Group sedimentary rocks of oceanic origin are intruded by the Cassiar Batholith. These intrusive rocks are made up of Quartz monzonite, granodiorite, granite, pegmatites, aplite and porphyritic granite.
The district is structurally complex, with numerous northwesterly-striking fault complexes, some of which are of crustal scale and profound and can be traced far from the area of concern in this report, others are splays that create imbrications or slivers of the various formations.
Several contrasting geological terrains are present in the Cassiar (Liard) mining district. Each has the potential to host important mineral deposits. Gold quartz veins are found where granitic intrusions are in contact with Meta sediments but are mainly significant as probable sources of placer gold. Other possible deposits include molybdenum, asbestos magnesium, and massive sulphide copper-zinc deposits. The strong fault zones and related structures offer opportunities to locate mineral deposits associated with hydrothermal systems that may have exploited the fractures and other weaknesses.
Figure 5 - GEOLOGY OF JUDY CLAIMS
LEGEND FOR GEOLOGY MAP
Red Color
JURASSIC AND/OR CRETACEOUS
Cassiar Intrusions: Quartz monzonite, granodiorite; granite, pegmatite, aplite, porphyritic granite
Green Color
DEVONIAN AND MISSISSIPPIAN
Sylvester Group: greenstone, chert-quartz arenite, chert, argillite, slate, quartzite, greywacke, limestone, conglomerate.
Magenta color
ORDOVICIAN, SILURIAN AND DEVONIAN
Sandpile Group: dolomite, cherty dolomite, dolomite breccias, sandy dolomite, dolomitic sandstone, sandstone, quartzite.
Blue Color
LOWER CAMBRIAN
Limestone, dolomite, slate, argillite; sandy limestone, red and green slate, shale, limestone.
(Source: geology by L.L. Price, 1949 and H. Gabrielse, 1950 - 1954)
REFERENCES
Gabrielse. H., (1964, McDame Map Area, Cassiar District, British Columbia (104P), Geol. Surv. Canada, Memoir 319, 60 p.
Bostock, H. S., (1948), Physiography of the Canadian Cordillera, with special reference to the area north of the fifty-fifth parallel, Geol. Surv. Canada. Memoir 247, 101 p.
Christie. R. L., (1957), Bennett, Cassiar District, British Columbia, Geol. Surv. Canada preliminary series map 19-1957.
Howell, William A.: Bridge, David J., (1995), Assessment Report on Diamond Drilling Performed by International Taurus Resources Inc. on the Cornucopia Claim Group, Liard Mining District. Assessment Report 24222. submitted to Ministry of Energy and Mines
1987 British Columbia Department of Mines Assessment Reports, Assessment Report on Diamond Drilling Performed by International Taurus Resources Inc. on the Cornucopia Claim Group, Liard Mining District. Assessment Report 16777 submitted to Ministry of Energy and Mines.
Overview of Regulatory, Economic and Environmental Issues
Canadian jurisdictions allow a mineral explorer to claim a portion of available Crown lands as its exclusive area for exploration by depositing posts or other visible markers to indicate a claimed area. The process of posting the area is known as staking.
All Canadian lands and minerals which have not been granted to private persons are owned by either the federal or provincial governments in the name of Her Majesty. Un-granted minerals are commonly known as Crown minerals. Ownership rights to Crown minerals are vested by the Canadian Constitution in the province where the minerals are located. In the case of the company's property, that is the Province of British Columbia. In the nineteenth century the practice of reserving the minerals from fee simple Crown grants was established. Legislation now ensures that minerals are reserved from Crown land dispositions. The result is that the Crown is the largest mineral owner in Canada, both as the fee simple owner of Crown lands and through mineral reservations in Crown grants. Most privately held mineral titles are acquired directly from the Crown. The company's property is one such acquisition. Accordingly, fee simple title to the company's property resides with the Crown.
Underground metal mines generally involve higher grade ore bodies. Less tonnage is mined underground, and generally the higher grade ore is processed in a mill or other refining facility. This process results in the accumulation of waste by-products from the washing of the ground ore. Mills require associated tailings ponds to capture waste by-products and treat water used in the milling process.
Capital costs for mine, mill and tailings pond construction can easily run into the hundreds of millions of dollars. These costs are factored into the profitability of a mining operation. Metal mining is sensitive to both cost considerations and to the value of the metal produced. Metals prices are set on a world-wide market and are not controlled by the operators of the mine. Changes in currency values or exchange rates can also impact metals prices. Thus changes in metals prices or operating costs can have a huge impact on the economic viability of a mining operation.
Environmental protection and remediation is an increasingly important part of mineral economics. Estimated future costs of reclamation or restoration of mined land are based principally on legal and regulatory requirements. Reclamation of affected areas after mining operations may cost millions of dollars. Often governmental permitting agencies are requiring multi-million dollar bonds from mining companies prior to granting permits, to insure that reclamation takes place. All environmental mitigation tends to decrease profitability of the mining operation, but these expenses are recognized as a cost of doing business by modern mining and exploration companies.
Mining and exploration activities are subject to various laws and regulations governing the protection of the environment. These laws and regulations are continually changing and are generally becoming more restrictive. We conduct our operations so as to protect the public health and environment and our operations are presently in compliance with applicable laws and regulations in all material respects. We expect in the future to make expenditures to comply with such laws and regulations, but cannot predict the full amount of such future expenditures.
Every mining activity has an environmental impact. In order for a proposed mining project to be granted the required governmental permits, mining companies are required to present proposed plans for mitigating this impact. In the British Columbia, where our properties are located, no mine can operate without obtaining a number of permits. These permits address the social, economic, and environmental impacts of the operation and include numerous opportunities for public involvement and comment.
Compliance with Government Regulation
We will be required to comply with all regulations, rules and directives of governmental authorities and agencies applicable to the exploration of minerals in Canada generally, and in British Columbia specifically.
We will have to sustain the cost of reclamation and environmental mediation for all exploration and development work undertaken. The amount of these costs is not known at this time as we do not know the extent of the exploration program that will be undertaken beyond completion of the currently planned work programs. Because there is presently no information on the size, tenor, or quality of any resource or reserve at this time, it is impossible to assess the impact of any capital expenditures on earnings or our competitive position in the event a potentially economic deposit is discovered.
If we enter into production, the cost of complying with permit and regulatory environment laws will be greater than in the exploration phases because the impact on the project area is greater. Permits and regulations will control all aspects of any production program if the project continues to that stage because of the potential impact on the environment.
Examples of regulatory requirements include:
1.
Water discharge will have to meet water standards;
2.
Dust generation will have to be minimal or otherwise re-mediated;
3.
Dumping of material on the surface will have to be re-contoured and re-vegetated;
4.
An assessment of all material to be left on the surface will need to be environmentally benign;
5.
Ground water will have to be monitored for any potential contaminants;
6.
The socio-economic impact of the project will have to be evaluated and, if deemed negative, will have to be re-mediated; and
7.
There will have to be a report on the impact of the work on the local fauna and flora.
Plan of Exploration
A detailed plan of exploration for our properties can be found further in this Report on page 29 under the section titled “Management’s Discussion and Analysis”.
Glossary of Certain Technical Terms
Many of the following terms and definitions have been taken from Glossary of Geology, Fourth Edition, Julia A. Jackson, editor, American Geological Institute, Alexandria, Virginia, 1997 and are used in the technical descriptions in this registration statement.
Aplite
In petrology, the name given to intrusive rock in which quartz and feldspar are the dominant minerals.
Assay
A chemical test performed on a sample of ores or minerals to determine the amount of valuable metals contained.
Basalt
Basalt is a common extrusive volcanic rock. It is usually grey to black and fine-grained due to rapid cooling.
Base metal
Any non-precious metal (e.g. copper, lead, zinc, nickel, etc.).
Batholith
A body of crystalline plutonic rock, may be homogeneous or compounded from more than one magmatic source: area in outcrop or subcrop in excess of 100 square kms.
Development
Work carried out for the purpose of opening up a mineral deposit and making the actual ore extraction possible.
Devonian
The Devonian is a geologic period and system of the Paleozoic Era spanning from 416 to 359.2 million years ago
Diamond Drill
A rotary type of rock drill that cuts a core of rock that is recovered in long cylindrical sections, two centimeters or more in diameter.
Dip
The angle at which a vein, structure or rock bed is inclined from the horizontal as measured at right angles to the strike. A vein is a mineralized zone having a more or less regular development in length, width and depth, which clearly separates it from neighboring rock. A strike is the direction or bearing from true north of a vein or rock formation measured on a horizontal surface.
Drift
A horizontal underground opening that follows along the length of a vein or rock formation as opposed to a cross-cut which crosses the rock formation.
Epithermal
Refers to the process of near surface ore deposition by fluids from an intrusive source, see also mesothermal; said of a mineral deposit formed within about 1km of the earth’s surface and in the temperature range 50-200 degrees C. occurring mainly as veins. Also said of that environment.
Exploration
Work involved in searching for ore, usually by drilling or driving a drift.
Fracture
A break in the rock, the opening of which allows mineral bearing solutions to enter. A “cross-fracture” is a minor break extending at more-or-less right angles to the direction of the principal fractures.
Geophysical Survey
Indirect methods of investigating the subsurface geology using the applications of physics including electric, gravimetric, magnetic, electromagnetic, seismic, and radiometric principles.
Grade
The average assay of a ton of ore, reflecting metal content.
Granite
A common, coarse-grained, light-colored, hard igneous rock consisting chiefly of quartz, orthoclase or microcline, and mica,
Granodiorite
Granodiorite (rock), medium- to coarse-grained rock that is among the most abundant intrusive igneous rocks.
Host Rock
The rock surrounding an ore deposit.
Intrusive Rocks
A rock formation that intrudes into a host rock. A body of igneous rock is formed by the consolidation of magma intruded into other rocks, in contrast to lavas, which are extruded upon the surface.
Limestone
A bedded, sedimentary deposit consisting chiefly of calcium carbonate.
Massive sulphide
Massive sulfide ore deposits are a type of metal sulfide ore deposit, mainly Cu-Zn-Pb.
Mesothermal
Refers to a mineral deposit formed at moderate depth hence at “moderate” temperature and pressures. Said of a hydrothermal mineral deposit formed at considerable depth and in the temperature range of 200-300 degrees C. Also said of that environment.
Mesozoic
The Mesozoic Era is a period from about 250 million years ago to about 67 million years ago. It is called the Age of Dinosaurs because most dinosaurs lived in this period.
Mill
A processing plant that produces a concentrate of the valuable minerals or metals contained in an ore. The concentrate must then be treated in some other type of plant, such as a smelter, to affect recovery of the pure metal, recovery being the percentage of valuable metal in the ore that recovered by metallurgical treatment.
Mine Development
The work carried out for the purpose of opening up a mineral deposit and making the actual ore extraction possible.
Mineral
A naturally occurring homogeneous substance having definite physical properties and chemical composition and, if formed under favorable conditions, a definite crystal forms.
Mineral Reserve
The economically mineable part of a measured or indicated mineral resource. Appropriate assessments, often called feasibility studies, have been carried out and include consideration of and modification by realistically assumed mining, metallurgical, economic, marketing, legal, environmental, social, and governmental factors. These assessments demonstrate, at the time of, that extraction is reasonably justified. Mineral reserves are sub-divided, in order of increasing confidence, into probable and proven categories. A probable reserve is the economically mineable part of an indicated (and in certain circumstances, measured) resource. A proven reserve is the economically mineable part of a measured resource.
Mineral Resource
A deposit or concentration of natural, solid, inorganic or fossilized organic substance in such quantity and at such grade or quality that extraction of the material at a profit is currently or potentially possible. Mineral resources are sub-divided, in order of increasing geological confidence, into inferred, indicated and measured categories. An inferred resource designation comes from limited sampling data insufficient for verification of deposit quantity and quality, but it is usually supported by limited geological, geochemical and geophysical data. An indicated resource designation comes from sampling data spaced closely enough to allow certain assumptions of deposit quantity and quality and to clearly establish its mineral content. Finally, a measured resource designation comes from sampling data spaced closely enough to allow confirmation of deposit quantity and quality and to allow a preliminary evaluation of the economic viability of the deposit.
Mineralized
A mineralized body, which has been delineated by appropriate drilling and/or underground
Material Deposit
sampling to support a sufficient tonnage and average grade of metal(s). Under SEC or standards, such a deposit does not qualify as a reserve until a comprehensive evaluation, based upon unit cost, grade, recoveries, and other factors, conclude economic feasibility.
Mississippian
The fifth period of the Paleozoic Era beginning about 350 million years ago and ending about 320 million years ago. The Mississippian System (referring to rocks) or Period (referring to the time during which these rocks were deposited) is employed in North America as the lower (or older) subdivision of the Carboniferous, as used in Europe and on other continents.
Pegmatites
A pegmatite is a very coarse-grained, intrusive igneous rock composed of interlocking grains usually larger than 2.5 cm in size.
Porphyritic Granite
Granite rock with two grain sizes, containing large crystals (phenocrysts) of orthoclase feldspar (reddish) and smaller granite-size grains of quartz.
Proterozoic
The Proterozoic eon is an interval of geologic time of nearly 2 billion years extending from about 2500 million years ago (‘mya’) to about 542 mya.
Quartz Monzonite
Quartz monzonite (or adamellite) is an intrusive igneous rock that has an approximately equal proportion of orthoclase and plagioclase feldspars.
Tertiary Sediments
The Tertiary record of the sediments is essentially restricted to the Paleogene strata (namely, those of Paleocene-late Oligocene age).
Office Premises
Our principal office is located at the home of our CEO. Our contact details are: Address: 500 McLeod Trail East - #5178, Bellingham, Washington, USA 98226; Telephone (866) 676-7678; Fax (866) 676-7678; Email: dchristie@daneexploration.com. Our office premises are provided to us at no charge by David Christie, our sole director and officer.
ITEM 3.