ITEM 2.PROPERTIES
Elk Creek Project, Nebraska
Our principal mineral property is the Elk Creek Property, a niobium, scandium and titanium exploration project. The Elk Creek Project does not have any proven or probable reserves under SEC Industry Guide 7 and the Elk Creek Project is exploratory in nature. The below information is in part summarized or extracted from our 2019 Elk Creek Project Feasibility Study.
Mr. Jean-Francois St-Onge, P.Eng, and Mr. Glen Kuntz, P. Geo, both of whom are independent qualified persons as defined in NI 43-101, have reviewed and approved the mineral reserves and mineral resources, respectively, and have verified the data contained in those portions of the Elk Creek Project disclosures relevant to their area of responsibility included in this Form 10-K related to the 2019 Elk Creek Feasibility Study.
Scott Honan, M.Sc., SME-RM, a qualified person as defined in NI 43-101, has supervised the preparation of the scientific and technical information that forms the basis for the Elk Creek Project disclosure in this Form 10-K and has approved the disclosure in this Form 10-K related thereto. Mr. Honan is not independent of the Company, as he is the Vice President, Business Development. The full NI 43-101 technical report, incorporating the results of the 2019 Elk Creek Feasibility Study was filed on SEDAR on May 29, 2019.
Property Description and Location
The Elk Creek Property is a niobium-bearing carbonatite deposit located in Johnson County, southeast Nebraska, USA. In addition to niobium, other elements of economic significance include titanium and scandium. The Elk Creek Property is situated as shown in Figure 1 below and is located within the USGS Tecumseh Quadrangle Nebraska SE (7.5 minute series) mapsheet in Sections 1-6, 9-11; Township 3N; Range 11 and Sections 19-23, 25-36; Township 4N, Range 11, at approximately 40°16’ north and 96°11’ west in the State of Nebraska, in central USA. The Elk Creek Property is approximately 45 miles southeast of Lincoln, Nebraska, the state capital of Nebraska.
Figure 1 - Property Map showing Location of Elk Creek Project
Title and Ownership
The Company currently holds 21 option agreements that are material to the Elk Creek Project and one perpetual easement of a land parcel at the terminus of a proposed waterline to the Missouri River from the Elk Creek Property, if required. The current optioned land package covers an area of 4,042 acres.
Option agreements are between NioCorp’s wholly-owned subsidiary ECRC and the individual landowners. Land ownership for the agreements significant to the Elk Creek Project are shown in Figure 2 and listed in Table 1. Significant agreements are those which have been demonstrated to host mineralized material, or which have the potential to be the site of buildings, facilities or other surface infrastructure.
Figure 2 - Land Tenure Map
Source: NioCorp, 2019
Table 1: Active Lease Agreements Covering the Elk Creek Project
Source: NioCorp, 2019
The current estimated Mineral Resource is wholly contained within parcels Woltemath003J and Beethe008, and agreements covering both of these properties have been secured. The Company considers these two leases to be the only leases on which the Company’s development of the Elk Creek Project is substantially dependent. Negotiations for additional lands to support various configurations of the surface operations have been completed. The Company believes that the surface plant and facilities associated with the Elk Creek Project could be located in any number of places and would not necessarily need to be sited on lands contiguous with the Beethe008 and Woltemath003 properties.
As part of the exploration option agreements, where required, the Company has also secured surface rights, which allow for access to the land for drilling activities and associated mineral exploration and project development work.
The agreements that involve mineral rights include a 2% NSR royalty attached with the option to purchase (“OTP”). The agreements grant the Company an exclusive right to explore and evaluate the property for a period of 60 months, with an OTP the mineral rights, the surface rights or a combination of the mineral and surface rights at any time during the term. As the Woltemath80S agreement is limited to an OTP for the surface rights only, it does not contain an NSR provision.
Accessibility, Physiography, Climate and Infrastructure
The Elk Creek Property is easily accessible year-round as it is situated approximately 45 miles southeast of Lincoln (State Capital), Nebraska and approximately 68 miles south of Omaha, Nebraska. Access to the site can be completed via road or from one of the regional airports. There are several regular flights to both Lincoln and Omaha; however, the Elk Creek Property is most easily accessible from Lincoln. From Lincoln Municipal Airport, the Elk Creek Property is accessed via paved roads on the main network and a secondary network of gravel roads. The drive from the Lincoln Municipal Airport to the property is typically 1 hour and 15 minutes, and from Omaha’s Eppley Airport the drive is approximately 1 hour and 45 minutes.
Geologists can be sourced from local universities. An experienced mining-related workforce can be found in Denver, Colorado (eight hours drive west of the Elk Creek Property).
Southeast Nebraska is situated in a Humid Continental Climate (Dfa) on the Köppen climate classification system. In eastern Nebraska, this climate is generally characterized by hot humid summers and cold winters. Average winter temperatures vary between 13°F to 35°F. Average summer temperatures vary between 64°F to 90°F. Exploration, construction and operational activities may be conducted all year round.
Average monthly precipitation (rain and snowfall) varies between 0.9 and 5.0 inches. Average yearly precipitation is between 31 and 33 inches with an average yearly snowfall of approximately 28 inches. Nebraska is located within an area known for tornadoes which runs through the central U.S. where thunderstorms are common in the spring and summer months. Tornadoes primarily occur during the spring and summer and may occur into the autumn months.
The Company has negotiated surface rights as needed as part of its existing lease agreements. There is sufficient suitable land area available within the Elk Creek Property area for mine waste disposal, for future tailings disposal, a processing plant, and related mine infrastructure.
There are several local communities near the Elk Creek Property including Elk Creek and Tecumseh that will provide local housing for the Elk Creek Project. There are a number of other communities within driving distance and the large cities of Lincoln and Omaha are within reasonable driving distance. Mining activities currently taking place in the area are limited to limestone and aggregate operations to support the local cement manufacturing and construction industries.
The Elk Creek Property site has no existing infrastructure except being adjacent to the Nebraska state highway 50 and County Road 721. The Elk Creek Project will be accessed from County Road 721 through a guard gate into the Elk Creek Property.
The Elk Creek Project is expected to incorporate surface and underground infrastructure, as well as tailings storage facilities. The offsite infrastructure is expected to include a new high voltage transmission line constructed by the local utility company and providing power to an on-site primary sub-station and a natural gas pipeline built by the owner of the interstate pipeline. Water used for all on-site process needs and activities will be supplied from mine dewatering activities, local groundwater wells and from a local water utility. See “Feasibility Study” below for additional information regarding proposed infrastructure related to the Elk Creek Project.
The local topography of eastern Nebraska is relatively low-relief with shallow rolling hills intersected by shallow river valleys. Elevation varies from about 1,066 to 1,280 feet above sea level. Bedrock outcrop exposure is nonexistent in the Elk Creek Project area.
The majority of the Elk Creek Project area is used for cultivation of corn and soybeans, along with uses as grazing land. Native vegetation typical of eastern Nebraska is upland tall-grass, prairie and upland deciduous forests.
Geology and Mineralization
Geology
The Nebraska Precambrian basement predominantly comprises granite, diorite, basalt, anorthosite, gneiss, schist and clastic sediments. A series of island arcs sutured onto the Archean continent created the basic framework of the area. This suture left a north-trending intervening boundary zone ancestral to the Nemaha Uplift, providing a pre-existing tectonic framework which controlled the trend of the later Midcontinent Rift System (1.0 to 1.2 billion years ago). The Carbonatite is located at the northeast extremity of the Nemaha Uplift.
The Elk Creek Property includes the Carbonatite that has intruded older Precambrian granitic and low- to medium-grade metamorphic basement rocks. The Carbonatite and Precambrian rocks are believed to be unconformably overlain by approximately 200 m of Paleozoic marine sedimentary rocks of Pennsylvanian age (approximately 299 to 318 million years ago).
As a result of this thick cover, there is no surface outcrop within the Elk Creek Property area of the Carbonatite, which was identified and targeted through magnetic surveys and confirmed through subsequent drilling. The available magnetic data indicates dominant northeast, west-northwest striking lineaments and secondary northwest and north oriented features that mimic the position of regional faults parallel and/or perpendicular to the Nemaha Uplift.
The Elk Creek Carbonatite is an elliptical magmatic body with northwest trending long axis perpendicular to the strike of the 1.1 billion years ago Midcontinent Rift System, near the northern part of the Nemaha uplift. It was first discovered by drilling in 1971 and tentatively identified as a carbonatite on the basis that it resembled rocks of the Fen District of Norway. The definitive confirmation of carbonatite was completed using Rare Earth Element (“REE”), P205 and 87Sr/86Sr isotope analysis. The Carbonatite has also been compared to the Iron Hill carbonatite stock in Gunnison County, Colorado on the basis of similar mineralogy.
The Carbonatite consists predominantly of dolomite, calcite and ankerite, with lesser chlorite, barite, phlogopite, pyrochlore, serpentine, fluorite, sulfides and quartz. It is, however, believed from stratigraphic reconstruction based on drill core observation in the area that the carbonatite is unconformably overlain by approximately 200 m of essentially flat-lying Palaeozoic marine sedimentary rocks, including carbonates, sandstones and shales of Pennsylvanian age (approximately 299 to 318 million years ago).
Current studies suggest that the Carbonatite was emplaced approximately 500 million years ago in response to stress along the Nemaha Uplift boundary predating deposition of the Pennsylvanian sedimentary sequence (approximately 299 to 318 million years ago). However, observations on drill cores from the Elk Creek Project site show that the contact between the Carbonatite body and the Pennsylvanian sediments is a sheared but oxidized contact suggesting that the Carbonatite is intrusive in the Pennsylvanian sequence. Furthermore, both rock types appear to have been affected by at least one main brittle-ductile deformation event resulting in formation of fault structures. Microstructures including sub-vertical and sub-horizontal tension veins, together with related sheared veins and fault planes displaying sub-vertical and sub-horizontal slickensides along drill cores are indications for the presence of extensional and oblique to strike-slip faults. These faults could correspond to the magnetic lineaments present in the area.
Mineralization
The property hosts niobium, titanium, and scandium mineralization as well as rare earth elements and barium mineralization that occurs within the Elk Creek Carbonatite. The current known extents of the Carbonatite unit are approximately 950 m along strike, 300 m wide, and 750 m in dip extent, below the unconformity. Niobium, titanium and scandium are considered the main elements of interest.
The deposit contains significant concentrations of niobium. Based on the metallurgical testwork completed to date at a number of laboratories using QEMSCAN® analysis, the niobium mineralization is known to be fine grained, and that 77% of the niobium occurs in the mineral pyrochlore, while the balance occurs in an iron-titanium-niobium oxide mineral of varying composition.
Within the Elk Creek Carbonatite, a host of other elements exist with varying degrees of concentration. The Company has completed both whole rock analysis and multi-element analysis on all samples for the 2014 drilling program, described below, plus resampling of selected historical core/pulps between 2011 and 2014.
Historical Exploration
Drilling at the Elk Creek Property was conducted in three phases. The first was during the 1970’s and 1980’s by the Molybdenum Company of America (“Molycorp”), the second in 2011 by Quantum (NioCorp under its former name), and the third and latest program from 2014 to 2016 by NioCorp. To date, 129 diamond core holes have been completed for a total of 64,981 m over the entire geological complex. Of these, a total of 48 holes (33,909 m) have been completed to date in the mineralized area and are used in the current Mineral Resource estimate. Five additional holes with a total length 3,353.1 m, were drilled for hydrogeologic and geotechnical purposes. No sampling has been completed of these holes to date and therefore they have not been considered for the Mineral Resource estimate.
All drilling has been completed using a combination of Tricone, Reverse Circulation (“RC”) or Diamond Drilling (“DDH”) in the upper portion of the hole within the Pennsylvanian sediments. All drilling within the underlying Carbonatite has been completed using DDH methods.
Table 2: Summary of Drilling Database within Elk Creek Deposit Area
Molycorp 1973-1986
Between 1973 and 1974, Molycorp completed six drillholes: EC-1 to EC-4, targeting the Elk Creek anomaly and two other holes outside the Elk Creek anomaly area. Drillholes were typically carried out by RC drilling through the overlying sedimentary rocks and diamond drilling through the Ordovician-Cambrian basement rocks.
Molycorp continued their drill program from 1977 and, in May 1978, Molycorp made its discovery of the current Mineral Resource with drillhole EC-11. EC-11 is located on Section 33, Township 4N, and Range 11. The Carbonatite hosting the Elk Creek Project was intersected at a vertical depth of 203.61 m (668 ft).
Molycorp continued its drilling program through to 1984, which mainly centered on the Elk Creek Project within a radius of roughly 2 km. By 1984, Molycorp had completed 57 drillholes within the Elk Creek gravity anomaly area, which included 25 drillholes over the Elk Creek Project area.
From 1984 to 1986, drilling was focused on the Elk Creek gravity anomaly area. The anomaly area is roughly 7 km in diameter and drilling was conducted on a grid pattern of approximately 610 by 610 m (roughly 2,000 by 2,000 ft.) with some closer spaced drillholes in selected areas.
By 1986, a total of 106 drillholes were completed for a total of approximately 46,797 m (153,532 ft). The deepest hole reached a depth of 1,038 m (3,406 ft) and bottomed in carbonatite.
Quantum, 2010-2011 (NioCorp under its former name)
In April 2011, Quantum conducted a preliminary drill program (three holes) on the Elk Creek deposit and two REE exploration targets (two holes), which have been excluded from the current Mineral Resource estimation, as they do not intersect the Nb2O5 anomaly and are located to the east. The objectives of the drill program over the Elk Creek Property were to verify the presence of higher-grade niobium mineralization at depth, and to infill drill the known niobium deposit in order to upgrade the resource category of the previous resource estimate and expand the known resource. The drill program was also established to collect sufficient sample material for metallurgical characterization and process development studies of the niobium mineralization.
The 2011 program consisted of five inclined drillholes, totaling 3,420 m of NQ size diameter core. Inclusive of this total, three drillholes, totaling 2,318 m were drilled into the known Elk Creek deposit.
NioCorp 2014 to present
NioCorp commenced drilling on the Elk Creek Property using a three-phased program with the aim of increasing the confidence in the 2012 Mineral Resource Estimate from Inferred to Indicated. The three-phased program was originally based on 14 drillholes for approximately 12,150 m (announced in a press release on April 29, 2014), but was subsequently expanded during the program to 18 drillholes for approximately 15,482 m. Three of the 18 drillholes were drilled for the purpose of metallurgical characterization and process development studies. Two of these drillholes, NEC14-MET-01 and NEC14-MET-02 were not assayed, while NEC14-MET-03 was quarter cored with one quarter being assayed and the remainder used for metallurgical testwork. The drilling has been orientated to intersect the geological model from the southwest and northeast (perpendicular to the strike), with the exception of NEC14-011 and NEC14-012, which were oriented southeast and northwest, respectively.
2019 Elk Creek Feasibility Study
During the third quarter of fiscal year 2019, we received and completed our review and analysis of the final proposed mine design based on detailed underground engineering conducted by Nordmin. On April 16, 2019, we announced the results of the updated underground mine design and supporting infrastructure, the results of an update to the Elk Creek Project’s mineral resources and mineral reserve estimate, and the 2019 Elk Creek Feasibility Study based on the new mine design. A full NI 43-101 technical report, incorporating the results of the 2019 Elk Creek Feasibility Study, was filed on SEDAR on May 29, 2019.
Primary changes reflected in the updated mine design include a longer mine life, mining at greater depths to target higher niobium grades in the early years of mining operations, utilizing artificial ground freezing methods to mitigate water inflow during shaft construction, eliminating the active dewatering system that would have consisted of up to 15 large dewatering wells, and replacing a ventilation raise bore with a ventilation shaft to be installed with conventional sinking methods. In addition, the new mine design contemplates treating all water produced during mining operations, and water used in ore processing, on site for use in operations and replacing a brackish water discharge system with a system that produces solid salt that would be impounded on site.
The Elk Creek Project is planned as an underground mining operation using a long-hole stoping mining method and paste backfill, operating with a processing rate of 2,764 tonnes per day. Expected total production over the 36-year mine life includes 168,861 tonnes of payable niobium, 3,410 tonnes of scandium (“Sc2O3”), and 418,841 tonnes of titanium (“TiO2”). Estimated up-front direct capital costs are $760 million, in addition to indirect costs of $185 million, pre-production capital costs of $97 million, an overall contingency of $101 million, and pre-production net revenue credit of $265 million.
Financial Analysis Included in the 2019 Elk Creek Feasibility Study
The metrics reported in the 2019 Elk Creek Feasibility Study are based on the annual cash flow model results. The metrics are on both a pre-tax and after-tax basis, on a 100% equity basis with no Elk Creek Project financing inputs and are in Q1 2019 U.S. constant dollars. Foreign exchange impacts were deemed negligible as most, if not all, costs and revenues are denominated in U.S. dollars.
Key criteria used in the analysis are discussed in detail throughout this section. Principal Project assumptions used are shown summarized below.
Source: Nordmin, 2019
Summary of Key Evaluation Metrics and Projected Economic Results Included in the 2019 Elk Creek Feasibility Study
Source: NioCorp, 2019
Operating Cost Estimates Included in the 2019 Elk Creek Feasibility Study
The following LoM unit operating costs include the pre-production and first/last years of production.
Source: Nordmin, 2019. Total may not sum due to rounding.
1The term “EBITDA” refers to earnings before interest, taxes depreciation and amortization. See “Non-GAAP Financial Performance Measures” below for a discussion of the use of non-GAAP financial measures.
Capital Cost Estimates Included in the 2019 Elk Creek Feasibility Study
The following table shows the breakout in LoM initial capital and sustaining capital (including closure and reclamation) cost estimates, which total $1,609 million. An overall 9.67% contingency factor has been applied to the initial capital estimate, while a smaller 6.25% contingency was applied to the sustaining capital estimate. The initial capital estimate of $1,143 million will be partially offset by a Gross Pre-production Revenue Credit of $265 million (generated by pre-production product sales), which equates to a net cost of $879 million.
Source: Nordmin 2019. Totals may not sum due to rounding.
Planned Mining Operations
The Elk Creek Project is planned as a high-grade underground mining operation using a long-hole stoping mining method and paste backfill, with shaft access to minimize development through water bearing horizons. The mine will utilize jumbo drills for lateral development and tophammer and down-the-hole drills for vertical development and production stoping. Rock bolters will be used for ground support and probe holes will be used to support mine grouting where required. Ore will be remotely mucked from the bottom stope accesses using 14 tonne Load-Haul-Dump units (“LHD”). The LHDs will transport the ore to an ore pass directly or to remuck bays to maximize the efficiency of the stope mucking operations. When needed, a second LHD and a fleet of 40 tonne haul trucks will be used to transport ore from the remuck bays to the grizzly feeding the underground material handling system. Multiple remuck bays are used on each level to avoid interference between the LHD and the haul trucks. The ore is fed through the grizzlys with rock breakers into an underground crusher (the “Primary Crusher”) and via a material handling system to the surface.
Planned Processing Operations
Planned ore process operations include mineral processing, hydrometallurgical processing (“Hydromet”), and pyrometallurgical processing (“Pyromet”) housed in separate buildings.
The mineral processing building will house all of its equipment within a single large building. The primary driver of mineral processing is the dry processing of ore. Ore from the Primary Crusher (located in the underground mine) will be fed to the secondary cone crusher system, operating in closed circuit with a double deck screen. The screen undersize from the cone crusher system will be fed to a high-pressure grinding roll unit (“HPGR”), operating in closed circuit with another double deck screen. The HPGR screen undersize is the comminution product that will report to the Hydromet process.
The Hydromet plant building will be a multi-level engineered steel structure which will house equipment on two levels. Ore from mineral processing will be fed through 15 individual processes required to separate the three recoverable products. The purpose of the Hydromet processing steps is to leach the pay metals into solution using two separate acid leaches (HCl Leach and Sulfuric Acid Bake), remove impurities, separate the three pay metals, and perform precipitation/processing to final solid oxide forms. Outputs from the Hydromet Process include saleable titanium dioxide and scandium trioxide, with niobium pentoxide reporting to the Pyromet plant for final processing. The Hydromet plant will be supported by a Hydrochloric Acid Regeneration plant and a Sulfuric Acid Plant.
The Pyromet building will house most of its equipment within a single building. The purpose of the Pyromet plant is to reduce the niobium pentoxide coming from the Hydromet feed by converting it into a saleable ferroniobium (FeNb) metal. Aluminum shots and iron oxide pellets will be introduced to an electric arc furnace on a continuous basis along with fluxing agents and niobium pentoxide to produce a saleable FeNb metal.
Proposed Production Plan and Schedule
Based on the 2019 Elk Creek Feasibility Study, the operating mine life is approximately 36 years with a nominal processing rate of 2,764 tonnes per day. The Elk Creek Project timeline is based on First Metal 42 months after Authorization to Proceed, plus an additional six months of Ramp-up to 100% of production capacity for a total of 45 months and assumes no financing constraints. The NioCorp board must approve a construction program and budget before construction of the Elk Creek Project can begin. This approval, along with the receipt of all required governmental permits and approvals and the completion of project financings, will determine whether and when construction of the Elk Creek Project can begin.
Proposed Tailings Storage
The tailings produced by the process plant will consist of filtered water leach residue, calcined excess oxide, and slag. Four TSFs will be constructed sequentially to contain the tailings over the life of the Elk Creek Project and would contain approximately 14.5 million tonnes of tailings. The tailings facilities have been designed to incorporate two independent areas: a composite-lined tailings solids storage area; and an area with double lined containment including a leak collection and recovery system for management of stormwater runoff and drainage from the tailings solids. The TSFs will store predominantly dry (i.e., not in a slurry consistency) tailings from the plant with embankment construction based on a “downstream” construction method. Facility closure is considered in the design.
Proposed Salt Management
The crystalline salt produced as a waste product of heating and evaporating brine from the Reverse Osmosis (“RO”) water treatment plant will be transported by conveyor to the temporary salt staging area and then be transported by truck to the dedicated salt management cells (“SMC”). Two SMCs will be constructed sequentially to contain the salt over the life of the project and would contain approximately 1.63 million cubic meters of salt. The SMCs design will incorporate a composite-lined storage area with double-lined containment including a leak collection and recovery system for management of stormwater runoff and drainage.
Proposed Water Management
For the first several years of construction, the advancement of the shaft and underground workings will require limited dewatering, anticipated to be through lower-level sumping and pumping for surface collection and disposal. Initially, water will be stored in the lined SMC #1 during construction or will be trucked off-site for treatment at a local publicly owned treatment works. Excess water in the SMCs will be spray evaporated within the footprint of the Cell, to avoid the reintroduction of soluble salts into the water treatment system. Temporary on-site storage or off-site shipment and disposal of the crystallizer solid waste may be necessary until construction of SMC #1 is completed.
Once full operations commence, we anticipate a shortfall of approximately 3,700 gpm of operational and processing water, as the underground mine dewatering is only expected to produce 1,000 gpm. To make up this shortfall, we would purchase fresh water from a local utility and from local landowners.
Once tailings begin being deposited in the TSF, internal contact water (from residual moisture in the tailings and precipitation falling within the impoundment footprint) will need to be actively managed. This water will be collected and treated using lime softening to precipitate hydroxide and carbonate solid forms for many of the inorganic constituents. The treated water will be filtered to remove the solids (which will be returned to the TSF for disposal), and the clean water will be pumped to the process plant RO system for further treatment. The clean water from the process plant RO unit will be used in the process plant, and the reject concentrate will be crystallized and deposited back into the SMCs.
Power
The local power utility (Omaha Public Power District) will provide power from nearby transmission lines to the site. This will require that an approximate 18-mile transmission line be installed by the utility to provide the site sub-station with the required site power demand. The local power utility will also design and install the main substation that will be owned and maintained by the utility. This infrastructure will be paid back through rate changes on the electrical usage.
Natural Gas
Natural gas, to be used throughout the Elk Creek Project during the construction and operation phases of the project, will be brought to the site via pipeline from the local utility company. NioCorp has a natural gas transportation contract with Tallgrass Energy, which operates the Rockies Express (“REX”) pipeline. Tallgrass will construct a 45 km (28 mile) gas pipeline lateral from the main REX pipeline system in Kansas to the project site. The lateral will be sized to provide a minimum of 27.5 dekatherms of gas per day. Natural gas will be distributed to all on-site facilities utilizing buried high-density polyethylene natural gas distribution pipe. Natural gas piping above ground and located inside of facilities will consist predominately of carbon steel pipe. Maximum on-site pipeline distribution pressure will be 100 psig. Natural gas will be used for facility heating, water heating, and for natural gas-fired process equipment.
Markets
Market studies for niobium, titanium dioxide and scandium trioxide are an important part of the proposed Elk Creek operation. These commodities, especially niobium and scandium trioxide (scandium), are thinly traded without an established publicly available price discovery mechanism. Hence, detailed third party market studies provide the basis for assumptions used in the economic analysis.
The economic analysis in the 2019 Elk Creek Feasibility Study used the 2019 U.S. dollar base price of $47/kg Nb as the forward-looking price for steel grade (65%) ferroniobium based on published independent third-party reports. The base price is adjusted to a realized price to account for the discount provisions contained in the two ferroniobium offtake agreements that the Company has concluded.
NioCorp engaged OnG Commodities LLC (OnG) to produce a market assessment in April 2017 (OnG, 2017). The study examines current scandium production trends (approximately 20 tons/year) from existing and emerging producers plus an outlook for supply to 2028. The outlook then reviewed the current and emerging applications for scandium including fuel cells, aerospace, industrial and other uses plus and an outlook for demand to 2028. Based on these inputs, OnG provided pricing forecasts and global demand volumes by year to 2028 based estimated production costs and supply-demand balances. The pricing sheet for the OnG Commodities report was updated for NioCorp in 2019 (OnG, 2019).
No formal market study was done for TiO2 during the report period as it only represents 2% of overall revenue in the economic analysis. All market information for titanium and titanium dioxide is derived from USGS Commodity Market Summaries (Bedinger, 2019).
Taxation Rates Included in the 2019 Elk Creek Feasibility Study
Taxes that may be levied on the Elk Creek Project can be summarized as follows:
●Corporate Income Tax rates are 21% for Federal and 7.81% for Nebraska
The Elk Creek Project is eligible for federal depletion allowances and credits, as well as various state incentives. The calculated effective income tax rate for the Elk Creek Project is 17.5%.
Elk Creek Project Environmental Performance under New Mine Design Included in the 2019 Elk Creek Feasibility Study
The new mine design further reinforces the environmental performance of the Elk Creek Project. Together with previously disclosed environmental and process innovations incorporated in the 2017 Feasibility Study, the new mine design now incorporates these following strategies and technologies designed to minimize environmental impacts of operation:
●Zero Process Liquid Discharge: The Elk Creek facility will now operate as a “Zero Process Liquid Discharge” facility, with no releases of process liquids. Instead, both naturally occurring, brackish (slightly salty) water produced during mining operations, and water used in ore processing, will be treated on site for use in operations. A solid salt will be produced from water treatment operations which will be stored on site.
●No Wastewater Discharge to the Missouri River: By treating water on site, the Elk Creek Project no longer needs to transport water for discharge into the Missouri River. This will release the Elk Creek Project from having to obtain a specific National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System water quality discharge permit from the State of Nebraska, or an additional Section 404 permit, or a Section 408 permit from the USACE. The Section 408 permit would have required completion of an Environmental Assessment study, a process that is governed by NEPA and involves review by multiple federal government agencies.
●Additional Protection of Groundwater Resources Through Artificial Ground Freezing: The Elk Creek Project’s new mine design will utilize artificial ground freezing as part of the process of sinking the production and ventilation shafts. Artificial ground freezing creates a temporary frozen barrier that helps to protect groundwater resources in the area while shaft-sinking operations are underway.
●Avoidance of Permanent Impacts to Federally Jurisdictional Waters: We designed the layout of the Elk Creek Project to minimize or avoid permanent impacts to any federally jurisdictional waters and/or wetlands on the property. This reduced the expected environmental impacts and allowed the Elk Creek Project to secure a Clean Water Act Section 404 permit from the USACE under the Nationwide Permit program, a much more efficient and less expensive process than an individual Section 404 permit. No other NEPA-level federal permits are now expected to be required for the Elk Creek Project.
●Recycling of Reagents Used in Mineral Processing: Metallurgical and process breakthroughs that we accomplished in 2016 and 2017 are expected to help reduce the volume of material planned for disposal in the Elk Creek Project’s tailings storage areas. As more of this material is recycled, the environmental footprint of the Elk Creek Project is reduced.
●Utilizing Tailings as Underground Mine Backfill: We plan to fill underground voids concurrently with mining operations using a paste backfill material that contains mine waste material that typically would be stored in above-ground mine tailings storage areas.
Mineral Reserves and Resources
The Mineral Reserves and Mineral Resources disclosed below are based on the 2019 Elk Creek Feasibility Study in conformity with generally accepted CIM “Estimation of Mineral Resource and Mineral Reserves Best Practices” guidelines and are reported in accordance with the CIM “Definition Standards - For Mineral Resources and Mineral Reserves, May 10, 2014.” Mineral Reserves and Mineral Resources at the Elk Creek Project as of June 30, 2019 are summarized below in Table 3 and Table 4, respectively.
Cautionary Note to U.S. Investors: The terms Proven Reserve, Probable Reserve, Indicated Resource, and Inferred Resource as described in Tables 3 and 4 below are as defined in Canadian National Instrument 43-101. These terms are not defined under SEC Industry Guide 7 and are not SEC Industry Guide 7 proven and probable reserves. In addition, the estimation of inferred resources involves far greater uncertainty as to their existence and economic viability than the estimation of other categories of resources. U.S. investors are cautioned not to assume that estimates of inferred mineral resources exist, are economically minable, or will be upgraded into measured or indicated mineral resources. See “Cautionary Note to U.S. Investors Regarding Mineral Reserve and Resource Estimates” above.
Table 3: Underground Mineral Reserve Estimate for Elk Creek
Source: Nordmin, 2019. All figures are rounded to reflect the relative accuracy of the estimates. Totals may not sum due to rounding.
●Nordmin has reported the mineral reserve based on the mine design, mine plan, and cash-flow model utilizing an average cut-off grade of 0.788% NB2O5 with an NSR of $500/mt.
●Nordmin considers that the mineral reserve is amenable for underground extraction with a processing method to recover FeNb (as the saleable product of Nb2O5), TiO2, and Sc2O3 products.
●The economic assumptions used to define Mineral Reserve cut-off grade are as follows:
oAnnual LoM production rate of ~7,220 tonnes of FeNb/annum,
§Initial elevated five-year production rate ~ 7,351 tonnes of FeNb/annum
oMining dilution of ~6% was applied to all stopes and development, based on 3% for the primary stopes, 9% for the secondary stopes, and 5% for ore development.
oMining recoveries of 95% were applied.
oPrice assumptions for FeNb, Sc2O3, and TiO2 are based upon independent market analyses for each product.
oPrice and cost assumptions are based on the pricing of products at the “mine-gate”, with no additional down-stream costs required. The assumed products are a ferroniobium product (metallic alloy shots 0.65NbŸ0.35% Fe), a titanium dioxide product in powder form, and scandium trioxide in powder form.
●The mineral reserve has an average LoM NSR of $538.63 /tonne.
●Nordmin has provided detailed estimates of the expected costs based on the knowledge of the style of mining (underground) and potential processing methods (by third-party qualified persons).
●Mineral Reserve effective date February 19, 2019. The financial model was run post-February 2019, which reflects a total cost of $196.41 versus $189.91 used in the February 19, 2019 Mineral Reserve Details Table above. Nordmin does not consider this a material change.
●Price variances for commodities is based on updated independent market studies versus earlier projected pricing. The updated independent market studies do not have a negative effect on the reserve.
●Nordmin completed a site inspection of the deposit through a subcontractor, Jean-Francois St-Onge, P.Eng., Associate Consulting Specialist - Mining, an appropriate “independent qualified person” as this term is defined in NI 43-101.
Table 4: Mineral Resource Statement for Elk Creek
Source: Nordmin, 2019. All figures are rounded to reflect the relative accuracy of the estimates. Totals may not sum due to rounding.
●Mineral resources are reported inclusive of the mineral reserve. Mineral resources are not mineral reserves and do not have demonstrated economic viability. All figures are rounded to reflect the relative accuracy of the estimate and have been used to derive sub-totals, totals and weighted averages. Such calculations inherently involve a degree of rounding and consequently introduce a margin of error. Where these occur, Nordmin does not consider them to be material.
●The reporting standard adopted for the reporting of the MRE uses the terminology, definitions and guidelines given in the CIM Standards on Mineral Resources and Mineral Reserves (May 10, 2014) as required by NI 43-101.
●CIM definition standards for mineral resources and mineral reserves (May 2014) defines a mineral resource as:
“(A) concentration or occurrence of diamonds, natural solid inorganic material, or natural solid fossilized organic material including base and precious metals, coal, and industrial minerals in or on the Earth’s crust in such form and quantity and of such a grade or quality that it has reasonable prospects for economic extraction. The location, quantity, grade, geological characteristics and continuity of a mineral resource are known, estimated or interpreted from specific geological evidence and knowledge”.
●Historical samples have been validated via re-assay programs, and all drilling completed by NioCorp has been subjected to QA/QC. All composites have been capped and then composited where appropriate, and estimates completed used ordinary kriging. The concession is wholly owned by and exploration is operated by NioCorp Developments Ltd.
●The project is amenable to underground longhole open stoping mining methods. Using results from metallurgical test work, suitable underground mining and processing costs, and forecast product pricing Nordmin has reported the mineral resource at an NSR cut-off of US$180/mt.
●Economic Assumptions Used to Define Mineral resource Cut-off Value:
Diluted NSR (US$) = Revenue per block Nb2O5 (diluted) + Revenue per block TiO2 (diluted) + Revenue per block Sc (diluted)
Diluted tonnes per block
●Price assumptions for FeNb, Sc2O3, and TiO2 are based upon independent market analyses for each product.
●Price and cost assumptions are based on the pricing of products at the “mine-gate”, with no additional down-stream costs required. The assumed products are a ferroniobium product (metallic alloy shots 0.65NbŸ0.35% Fe), a titanium dioxide product in powder form, and scandium trioxide in powder form.
●The “reasonable prospects for economic extraction” requirement generally implies that the quantity and grade estimates meet certain economic thresholds and that the mineral resources are reported at an appropriate Cut-off Grade (“CoG”), considering extraction scenarios and processing recoveries. Based on this requirement, Nordmin considers that major portions of the project are amenable for underground extraction with a processing method to recover FeNb (as the saleable product of Nb2O5), TiO2, and Sc2O3 products.
●The result of positive indications from the company’s metallurgical testing and development program, titanium (TiO2) and scandium (Sc) were added to the mineral resource Statement in February 2015. Both metals can be recovered with simple additions to the existing process flowsheet and would provide additional revenue streams that would complement the planned production of ferroniobium.
●Nordmin has provided reasonable estimates of the expected costs based on the knowledge of the style of mining (underground) and potential processing methods (by third-party qualified persons).
●Mineral Resource effective date February 19, 2019.
●Nordmin completed a site inspection of the deposit by Glen Kuntz, BSc, P.Geo., Consulting Specialist - Geology/Mining, an appropriate “independent qualified person” as this term is defined in NI 43-101.
Environmental and Social
A number of key permits and environmental management requirements have been identified for the Elk Creek Project, some of which need to be implemented as soon as practicable in order to maintain the proposed Elk Creek Project schedule.
●While not necessarily complex, the timing generally required to complete permitting through any federal regulatory agency requires that NioCorp engage key agencies (in this case the USACE and possibly the EPA) early on in Elk Creek Project development and consider the siting and orientation of facilities carefully to minimize the risk of a protracted National Environmental Policy Act analysis of the Elk Creek Project. At the present time, the company believes that we have completed the major federal permitting actions needed for project construction, although changes to the design or location of project facilities may require that additional federal permits be obtained.
●Construction at the facility will require an air construction permit (the “Air Permit”) from the State of Nebraska. The Air Permit will describe all of the prospective air emissions from the facility and will require the completion of an air quality model that demonstrates compliance with the NAAQS. Permanent construction at the site cannot commence until this permit is issued, although a number of preconstruction activities are allowed under standing Nebraska Department of Environment and Energy (“NDEE”) policy. A variance procedure is available to permittees that allows construction to proceed in advance of permit issuance if a determination is made that the permit will not be issued before permanent construction is scheduled to commence. An application for the air construction permit was submitted to the State on July 24, 2019.
●A radioactive materials license will be needed from the Nebraska Department of Health and Human Services (“NDHHS”), Office of Radiological Health. Because of their limited experience with hard rock mining in the State of Nebraska, much less mining that includes Naturally Occurring Radioactive Material, the NDHHS may require additional information and more time to approve the Elk Creek Project under a Broad Scope License.
●Documentation of existing baseline environmental conditions at the Elk Creek Project site was initiated in 2014 and should continue throughout the permitting process. Additional studies will need to be added once regulatory authorities have been given an opportunity to review the current mine plan presented in the 2019 Elk Creek Feasibility Study and assess their particular data needs for approval of the Elk Creek Project.
●Surface water monitoring should continue throughout the permitting process and extend into construction and operations as part of the Environmental Management System. The NDEE Water Quality Division has been engaged in order to discuss the Elk Creek Project.
●A wetland delineation and potential jurisdictional waters assessment was conducted in late 2014 to identify wetland and drainage features within the proposed Elk Creek Project boundary which resulted in a formal JD being issued by the USACE on September 6, 2016. The entire project has been authorized under the non-notifying provisions of Nationwide Permit 12.
●Closure costs for the Elk Creek Project have been estimated at just over $44 million, including approximately $13.5 million for reclamation and closure of the TSFs and $16.6 million for plant and building removal and reclamation.
●Community engagement has occurred in parallel with Nebraska field operations and has included public meetings, presentations to public agencies, communications with local and state politicians, meetings with environmental groups, and one-on-one meetings with area landowners.
Other Elk Creek Project Activities
●In addition to finalizing the mine design and completing the 2019 Elk Creek Feasibility Study and 2019 Technical Report, we continued development of the Air Permit application, including the detailed engineering necessary to support the submission of the Air Permit application, which was submitted to the NDEE on July 24, 2019.
During the year ended June 30, 2019, we continued to advance the competitive process to identify and select engineering, procurement and construction firms for surface development, and underground mine development.
Proposed Activities
Our long-term financing efforts continued during the quarter ended June 30, 2019. As funds become available through the Company’s fundraising efforts, we expect to undertake the following activities:
●Acquisition of key land parcels currently subject to the Company’s Option to Purchase agreements;
●Continuation of the Company’s efforts to secure federal, state and local permits;
●Negotiation and completion of engineering, procurement and construction (“EPC”) agreements;
●Completion of the final detailed engineering for the underground portion of the Elk Creek Project;
●Initiation and completion of final detailed engineering for surface project facilities;
●Construction of natural gas and electrical infrastructure under existing agreements to serve the Elk Creek Project site;
●Initiation of revised mine groundwater investigation and control activities; and
●Initiation of long-lead equipment procurement activities.
Non-GAAP Financial Performance Measures
Non-GAAP financial performance measures are intended to provide additional information only and do not have any standard meaning prescribed by U.S. GAAP. These measures should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for performance measures prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP.
The 2019 Elk Creek Feasibility Study uses non-GAAP financial performance measures, such as EBITDA, Averaged Annual EBITDA and Averaged EBITDA Margin, for purposes of projecting the economic results of the Elk Creek Project. We are unable to provide a reconciliation of these forward-looking non-GAAP measures to the most comparable U.S. GAAP financial performance measures because certain information needed to reconcile those non-GAAP measures to the most comparable U.S. GAAP financial performance measures is dependent on future events, some of which are outside the control of the Company, such as FeNb, Sc2O3 and TiO2 prices, interest rates and exchange rates. Moreover, estimating such U.S. GAAP measures with the required precision necessary to provide a meaningful reconciliation is extremely difficult and could not be accomplished without unreasonable effort.
Corporate Headquarters
We lease our principal executive office space at 7000 South Yosemite Street, Suite 115, Centennial, Colorado.
ITEM 3.