ITEM 2.PROPERTIES
Elk Creek Project, Nebraska
Our principal mineral property is the Elk Creek Property, a niobium, scandium and titanium exploration project. The Elk Creek Project does not have any proven or probable reserves under SEC Industry Guide 7 and the project is exploratory in nature. The below information is in part summarized or extracted from our NI 43-101 technical report entitled “NI 43-101 Technical Report Feasibility Study Elk Creek Niobium Project Nebraska” with an effective date of June 30, 2017.
Joanna Poeck, B.Eng., SME-RM, MMSA-QP, and Ben Parsons, MSc, MAusIMM (CP), both of whom are independent Qualified Persons as defined in NI 43-101, have reviewed and approved the mineral reserves and mineral resources, respectively, and have verified the data contained in those portions of this feasibility study relevant to their area of responsibility included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K related to the Elk Creek Project Feasibility Study. Eric Larochelle, B.Eng, who is a consultant to the Company, and Jeff Osborn, BSc Mining, MMSAQP, are both independent Qualified Persons as defined in NI 43-101, and have reviewed, approved and verified the scientific and technical information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K related to the Elk Creek Project Feasibility Study.
Property Description and Location
The Elk Creek Property is a niobium-bearing carbonatite deposit located in Johnson County, southeast Nebraska, USA. In addition to niobium, other elements of economic significance include titanium and scandium. The Elk Creek Property is situated as shown in Figure 1 below and is located within the USGS Tecumseh Quadrangle Nebraska SE (7.5 minute series) mapsheet in Sections 1-6, 9-11; Township 3N; Range 11 and Sections 19-23, 25-36; Township 4N, Range 11, at approximately 40°16’ north and 96°11’ west in the State of Nebraska, in central USA. The Elk Creek Property is approximately 45 miles southeast of Lincoln, Nebraska, the state capital of Nebraska.
Figure 1 - Property Map showing Location of Elk Creek Project
Title and Ownership
The Company currently holds 21 option agreements that are material to the Elk Creek Project. The current optioned land package covers an area of 4,322 acres. In addition, On April 10, 2017, we announced that we had reached agreement with private landowners for a perpetual easement of a land parcel at the terminus of the Company’s proposed waterline to the Missouri River from the Elk Creek Property.
Option agreements are between NioCorp’s wholly-owned subsidiary ECRC and the individual land owners. Land ownership for the agreements significant to the project are shown in Figure 2 and listed in Table 1. Significant agreements are those which have been demonstrated to host mineralized material, or which have the potential to be the site of buildings, facilities or other surface infrastructure.
Figure 2- Land Tenure Map
Source: NioCorp, 2017
Table 1: Active Lease Agreements Covering The Elk Creek Project
Source: NioCorp, 2017
The current estimated Mineral Resource is wholly contained within parcels Woltemath003J and Beethe008, and agreements covering both of these properties have been secured. The Company considers these two leases to be the only leases on which the Company’s development of the Elk Creek Project is substantially dependent. Negotiations for additional lands to support various configurations of the surface operations have been completed. The Company believes that the surface plant and facilities associated with the Elk Creek Project could be located in any number of places, and would not necessarily need to be sited on lands contiguous with the Beethe008 and Woltemath003 properties.
As part of the exploration option agreements, where required, the Company has also secured surface rights, which allow for access to the land for drilling activities and associated mineral exploration and project development work.
The agreements that involve mineral rights include a 2% NSR royalty attached with the option to purchase (“OTP”). The agreements grant the Company an exclusive right to explore and evaluate the property for a period of 60 months, with an OTP the mineral rights, the surface rights or a combination of the mineral and surface rights at any time during the term. As the Woltemath80S agreement is limited to an OTP for the surface rights only, it does not contain an NSR provision.
Accessibility, Physiography, Climate and Infrastructure
The Elk Creek Property is easily accessible year round as it is situated approximately 45 miles southeast of Lincoln (State Capital), Nebraska and approximately 68 miles south of Omaha, Nebraska. Access to the site can be completed via road or from one of the regional airports. There are several regular flights to both Lincoln and Omaha; however, the Elk Creek Property is most easily accessible from Lincoln. From Lincoln Municipal Airport, the Elk Creek Property is accessed via paved roads on the main network and a secondary network of gravel roads. The drive from the Lincoln Municipal Airport to the property is typically 1 hour and 15 minutes, and from Omaha’s Eppley Airport the drive is approximately 1 hour and 45 minutes.
Geologists can be sourced from local universities. An experienced mining-related workforce can be found in Denver, Colorado (eight hours drive west of the Elk Creek Property).
Southeast Nebraska is situated in a Humid Continental Climate (Dfa) on the Köppen climate classification system. In eastern Nebraska, this climate is generally characterized by hot humid summers and cold winters. Average winter temperatures vary between 13°F to 35°F. Average summer temperatures vary between 64°F to 90°F. Exploration, construction and operational activities may be conducted all year round.
Average monthly precipitation (rain and snowfall) varies between 0.9 and 5.0 inches. Average yearly precipitation is between 31 and 33 inches with an average yearly snowfall of approximately 28 inches. Nebraska is located within an area known for tornadoes which runs through the central U.S. where thunderstorms are common in the spring and summer months. Tornadoes primarily occur during the spring and summer and may occur into the autumn months.
The Company has negotiated surface rights as needed as part of its existing lease agreements. There is sufficient suitable land area available within the Elk Creek Property area for mine waste disposal, for future tailings disposal, a processing plant, and related mine infrastructure.
There are several local communities near the Elk Creek Property including Elk Creek and Tecumseh that will provide local housing for the Elk Creek Project. There are a number of other communities within driving distance and the large cities of Lincoln and Omaha are within reasonable driving distance. Mining activities currently taking place in the area are limited to limestone and aggregate operations to support the local cement manufacturing and construction industries.
The Elk Creek Property site has no existing infrastructure except being adjacent to the Nebraska state highway 50 and County Road 721. The Elk Creek Project will be accessed from County Road 721 through a guard gate into the Elk Creek Property.
The Elk Creek Project is expected to incorporate surface and underground infrastructure, as well as tailings storage facilities. The offsite infrastructure is expected to include a new high voltage transmission line constructed by the local utility company and providing power to an on-site primary sub-station and a natural gas pipeline built by the owner of the interstate pipeline. Water used on site in all capacities will be supplied from mine dewatering. See “Feasibility Study” below for additional information regarding proposed infrastructure related to the Elk Creek Project.
The local topography of eastern Nebraska is relatively low-relief with shallow rolling hills intersected by shallow river valleys. Elevation varies from about 1,066 to 1,280 feet above sea level (masl). Bedrock outcrop exposure is nonexistent in the Elk Creek Project area.
The majority of the Elk Creek Project area is used for cultivation of corn and soybeans, along with uses as grazing land. Native vegetation typical of eastern Nebraska is upland tall-grass, prairie and upland deciduous forests.
Geology and Mineralization
Geology
The Nebraska Precambrian basement predominantly comprises granite, diorite, basalt, anorthosite, gneiss, schist and clastic sediments. A series of island arcs sutured onto the Archean continent created the basic framework of the area. This suture left a north-trending intervening boundary zone ancestral to the Nemaha Uplift, providing a pre-existing tectonic framework which controlled the trend of the later Midcontinent Rift System (1.0 to 1.2 billion years ago). The Carbonatite is located at the northeast extremity of the Nemaha Uplift.
The Elk Creek Property includes the Carbonatite that has intruded older Precambrian granitic and low- to medium-grade metamorphic basement rocks. The Carbonatite and Precambrian rocks are believed to be unconformably overlain by approximately 200 m of Paleozoic marine sedimentary rocks of Pennsylvanian age (approximately 299 to 318 million years ago).
As a result of this thick cover, there is no surface outcrop within the Elk Creek Property area of the Carbonatite, which was identified and targeted through magnetic surveys and confirmed through subsequent drilling. The available magnetic data indicates dominant northeast, west-northwest striking lineaments and secondary northwest and north oriented features that mimic the position of regional faults parallel and/or perpendicular to the Nemaha Uplift.
The Elk Creek Carbonatite is an elliptical magmatic body with northwest trending long axis perpendicular to the strike of the 1.1 billion years ago Midcontinent Rift System, near the northern part of the Nemaha uplift. It was first discovered by drilling in 1971 and tentatively identified as a carbonatite on the basis that it resembled rocks of the Fen District of Norway. The definitive confirmation of carbonatite was completed using Rare Earth Element (“REE”), P205 and 87Sr/86Sr isotope analysis. The Carbonatite has also been compared to the Iron Hill carbonatite stock in Gunnison County, Colorado on the basis of similar mineralogy.
The Carbonatite consists predominantly of dolomite, calcite and ankerite, with lesser chlorite, barite, phlogopite, pyrochlore, serpentine, fluorite, sulfides and quartz. It is, however, believed from stratigraphic reconstruction based on drill core observation in the area that the carbonatite is unconformably overlain by approximately 200 m of essentially flat-lying Palaeozoic marine sedimentary rocks, including carbonates, sandstones and shales of Pennsylvanian age (approximately 299 to 318 million years ago).
Current studies suggest that the Carbonatite was emplaced approximately 500 million years ago in response to stress along the Nemaha Uplift boundary predating deposition of the Pennsylvanian sedimentary sequence (approximately 299 to 318 million years ago). However, observations on drill cores from the Elk Creek Project site show that the contact between the Carbonatite body and the Pennsylvanian sediments is a sheared but oxidized contact suggesting that the Carbonatite is intrusive in the Pennsylvanian sequence. Furthermore, both rock types appear to have been affected by at least one main brittle-ductile deformation event resulting in formation of fault structures. Microstructures including sub-vertical and sub-horizontal tension veins, together with related sheared veins and fault planes displaying sub-vertical and sub-horizontal slickensides along drill cores are indications for the presence of extensional and oblique to strike-slip faults. These faults could correspond to the magnetic lineaments present in the area.
Mineralization
The property hosts niobium, titanium, and scandium mineralization as well as rare earth elements and barium mineralization that occurs within the Elk Creek Carbonatite. The current known extents of the Carbonatite unit are approximately 950 m along strike, 300 m wide, and 750 m in dip extent, below the unconformity. Niobium, titanium and scandium are considered the main elements of interest, within additional background on rare earth elements mineralization.
The deposit contains significant concentrations of niobium. Based on the metallurgical testwork completed to date at a number of laboratories using QEMSCAN® analysis, the niobium mineralization is known to be fine grained, and that 77% of the niobium occurs in the mineral pyrochlore, while the balance occurs in an iron-titanium-niobium oxide mineral of varying composition.
Within the Elk Creek Carbonatite, a host of other elements exist with varying degrees of concentration. The Company has completed both whole rock analysis and multi-element analysis on all samples for the 2014 drilling program, described below, plus resampling of selected historical core/pulps between 2011 and 2014.
Historical Exploration
Drilling at the Elk Creek Property was conducted in three phases. The first was during the 1970’s and 1980’s by the Molybdenum Company of America (“Molycorp”), the second in 2011 by Quantum (NioCorp under its former name), and the third and latest program from 2014 to 2016 by NioCorp. To date, 129 diamond core holes have been completed for a total of 64,981 m over the entire geological complex. Of these, a total of 48 holes (33,909 m) have been completed to date in the mineralized area and are used in the current Mineral Resource estimate. Five additional holes with a total length 3,353.1 m, were drilled for hydrogeologic and geotechnical purposes. No sampling has been completed of these holes to date and therefore they have not been considered for the Mineral Resource estimate.
All drilling has been completed using a combination of Tricone, Reverse Circulation (“RC”) or Diamond Drilling (“DDH”) in the upper portion of the hole within the Pennsylvanian sediments. All drilling within the underlying Carbonatite has been completed using DDH methods.
Table 2: Summary of Drilling Database within Elk Creek Deposit Area
Source: SRK, 2015
Molycorp 1973-1986
Between 1973 and 1974, Molycorp completed six drillholes: EC-1 to EC-4, targeting the Elk Creek anomaly and two other holes outside the Elk Creek anomaly area. Drillholes were typically carried out by RC drilling through the overlying sedimentary rocks and diamond drilling through the Ordovician-Cambrian basement rocks.
Molycorp continued their drill program from 1977 and, in May 1978, Molycorp made its discovery of the current Mineral Resource with drillhole EC-11. EC-11 is located on Section 33, Township 4N, and Range 11. The Carbonatite hosting the Elk Creek Project was intersected at a vertical depth of 203.61 m (668 ft).
Molycorp continued its drilling program through to 1984, which mainly centered on the Elk Creek Project within a radius of roughly 2 km. By 1984, Molycorp had completed 57 drillholes within the Elk Creek gravity anomaly area, which included 25 drillholes over the Elk Creek Project area.
From 1984 to 1986, drilling was focused on the Elk Creek gravity anomaly area. The anomaly area is roughly 7 km in diameter and drilling was conducted on a grid pattern of approximately 610 by 610 m (roughly 2,000 by 2,000 ft.) with some closer spaced drillholes in selected areas.
By 1986, a total of 106 drillholes were completed for a total of approximately 46,797 m (153,532 ft). The deepest hole reached a depth of 1,038 m (3,406 ft) and bottomed in carbonatite.
Quantum, 2010-2011 (NioCorp under its former name)
In April 2011, Quantum conducted a preliminary drill program (three holes) on the Elk Creek deposit and two REE exploration targets (two holes), which have been excluded from the current Mineral Resource estimation, as they do not intersect the Nb2O5 anomaly and are located to the east. The objectives of the drill program over the Elk Creek Property were to verify the presence of higher grade niobium mineralization at depth, and to infill drill the known niobium deposit in order to upgrade the resource category of the previous resource estimate and expand the known resource. The drill program was also established to collect sufficient sample material for metallurgical characterization and process development studies of the niobium mineralization.
The 2011 program consisted of five inclined drillholes, totaling 3,420 m of NQ size diameter core. Inclusive of this total, three drillholes, totaling 2,318 m were drilled into the known Elk Creek deposit.
NioCorp 2014 to present
NioCorp commenced drilling on the Elk Creek Property using a three-phased program with the aim of increasing the confidence in the 2012 Mineral Resource Estimate from Inferred to Indicated. The three-phased program was originally based on 14 drillholes for approximately 12,150 m (announced in a press release on April 29, 2014), but was subsequently expanded during the program to 18 drillholes for approximately 15,482 m. Three of the 18 drillholes were drilled for the purpose of metallurgical characterization and process development studies. Two of these drillholes, NEC14-MET-01 and NEC14-MET-02 were not assayed, while NEC14-MET-03 was quarter cored with one quarter being assayed and the remainder used for metallurgical testwork. The drilling has been orientated to intersect the geological model from the southwest and northeast (perpendicular to the strike), with the exception of NEC14-011 and NEC14-012, which were oriented southeast and northwest, respectively.
Elk Creek Feasibility Study
On June 30, 2017, we announced the results of the Elk Creek Feasibility Study related to the Elk Creek Project, and the related technical report was completed and filed in Canada on SEDAR on August 10, 2017. The Elk Creek Project is planned as an underground mining operation using a long-hole stoping mining method and paste backfill, operating with a processing rate of 2,760 tonnes per day. Expected total production over the 32-year mine life includes 143,824 tonnes of payable niobium, 3,237 tonnes of scandium (Sc2O3), and 359,128 tonnes of titanium (TiO2). Estimated up-front direct capital costs are $705 million, in addition to indirect costs of $189 million, pre-production capital costs of $85 million, an overall contingency of $109 million, and pre-production net revenue credit of $79 million.
Mineral Reserves and Resources
The Mineral Reserves and Mineral Resources disclosed below are based on the Elk Creek Feasibility Study in conformity with generally accepted CIM “Estimation of Mineral Resource and Mineral Reserves Best Practices” guidelines, and are reported in accordance with the CIM “Definition Standards - For Mineral Resources and Mineral Reserves, May 10, 2014.” Mineral Reserves and Mineral Resources at the Elk Creek Project as of June 30, 2017 are summarized below in Table 3 and Table 4, respectively.
Cautionary Note to U.S. Investors: The terms Proven Reserve, Probable Reserve, Indicated Resource, and Inferred Resource as described in Tables 3 and 4 below are as defined in Canadian National Instrument 43-101. These terms are not defined under SEC Industry Guide 7 and are not SEC Industry Guide 7 proven and probable reserves. In addition, the estimation of inferred resources involves far greater uncertainty as to their existence and economic viability than the estimation of other categories of resources. U.S. investors are cautioned not to assume that estimates of inferred mineral resources exist, are economically minable, or will be upgraded into measured or indicated mineral resources. See “Cautionary Note to U.S. Investors Regarding Mineral Reserve and Resource Estimates” above.
Table 3: Underground Mineral Reserves Estimate for Elk Creek
Source: SRK, effective May 15, 2017.
1.The Elk Creek Project is amenable to underground longhole open stoping mining methods. Using results from metallurgical test work, suitable underground mining and processing costs, and forecast product pricing SRK has reported the Mineral Reserve at a NSR cut-off of US$180/t.
2.NSR uses the following factors:
●Nb2O5: 0.699 is conversion from Nb2O5 to Nb, 1,000 is kg conversion, 85.8% is the hydromet plant recovery, 96% is the pyromet plant recovery, 100% payability, assuming a US$ 38.5 kg selling price.
●TiO2: 1,000 is kg conversion, 40.3% is metallurgical recovery, assuming 100% payability, assuming a US$ 0.88/kg is selling price.
●Sc: 93.1% is metallurgical recovery, 100% payability, US$ 3,500 kg is selling price per kg of scandium oxide, with a conversion of 0.652 is the amount of Sc in Sc2O3.
●Price assumptions for FeNb, Sc2O3, and TiO2 are based upon independent market analyses for each product.
●Ore reserves have been stated on the basis of a mine design, mine plan, and cash-flow model.
3.Mining recovery is applied and ranges from 94% to 100%.
4.Mining dilution (internal and external) is included. External stope dilution is 6%, and a portion of the external stope dilution is applied using grade values based on average surrounding block information. A development dilution of 5% is used at a 0% grade.
5.The Mineral Reserves were estimated by Joanna Poeck, BEng Mining, SME-RM, MMSAQP #01387QP, a Qualified Person.
Table 4: Mineral Resource Statement for Elk Creek
Source: SRK, effective May 15, 2017. All figures rounded to reflect the relative accuracy of the estimates. Totals may not sum due to rounding.
1.Mineral Resources are reported inclusive of the Mineral Reserve. Mineral Resources are not Mineral Reserves and do not have demonstrated economic viability. All figures are rounded to reflect the relative accuracy of the estimate and have been used to derive sub-totals, totals and weighted averages. Such calculations inherently involve a degree of rounding and consequently introduce a margin of error. Where these occur, SRK does not consider them to be material. All composites have been capped where appropriate. Historical samples have been validated via re-assay programs, and all drilling completed by NioCorp has been subjected to QA/QC. All composites have been capped where appropriate, and estimates completed using Ordinary Kriging. The Concession is wholly owned by and exploration is operated by NioCorp Developments Ltd
2.The reporting standard adopted for the reporting of the MRE uses the terminology, definitions and guidelines given in the Canadian Institute of Mining, Metallurgy and Petroleum (CIM) Standards on Mineral Resources and Mineral Reserves (May 10, 2014) as required by NI 43-101.
3.The Elk Creek Project is amenable to Underground longhole open stoping mining methods. Using results from metallurgical test work, suitable underground mining and processing costs, and forecast product pricing SRK has reported the Mineral Resource at a NSR cut-off of US$ 180/t.
4.NSR uses the following factors
●Nb2O5: 0.699 is conversion from Nb2O5 to Nb, 1000 is kg conversion, 85.8% is the hydromet plant recovery, 0.96 is the pyromet plant recovery, 100% payability, assuming a US$ 38.5 kg selling price.
●TiO2: 1000 is kg conversion, 40.3% is metallurgical recovery, assuming 100% payability, assuming a US$ 0.88/kg is selling price.
●Sc: 93.1% is met recovery, 100% payability, US$ 3,500 kg is selling price per kg of scandium oxide, with a conversion of 0.652 is the amount of Sc in Sc2O3
●Price assumptions for FeNb, Sc2O3, and TiO2 are based upon independent market analyses for each product.
5.SRK completed a site inspection of the deposit by Mr. Martin Pittuck, MSc, CEng, MIMMM, an appropriate “independent qualified person” as this term is defined in NI 43-101.
Financial Analysis Included in the Elk Creek Feasibility Study
The metrics reported in the Elk Creek Feasibility Study are based on the annual cash flow model results. The metrics are on both a pre-tax and after-tax basis, on a 100% equity basis with no Elk Creek Project financing inputs, and are in Q2 2017 U.S. constant dollars. Foreign exchange impacts were deemed negligible as most, if not all costs and revenues are denominated in U.S. dollars.
Key criteria used in the analysis are discussed in detail throughout this section. Principal Project assumptions used are shown summarized below.
Source: SRK, 2017
Summary of Key Evaluation Metrics and Projected Economic Results Included in the Elk Creek Feasibility Study
Operating Cost Estimates Included in the Elk Creek Feasibility Study
The following unit rates are stated on a Run of Mine (“RoM”) basis where the costs are estimated from 2022 through 2051 period and do not include the first or last years of production nor preproduction and post closure Operating Costs. This basis is used in order to give a more representative measurement of anticipated costs during normal operating conditions.
Source: SRK, 2017
Capital Cost Estimates Included in the Elk Creek Feasibility Study
The following table shows the breakout in initial and sustaining capital estimates which total $1.50 billion. An overall 11.1% contingency factor has been applied to the initial capital estimate while a smaller 1.4% contingency was applied to the sustaining capital estimate. The initial capital estimate of $1,088 million can be partially offset by a Gross Preproduction Revenue Credit of $79 million (generated by preproduction product sales) to net to a cost of $1,008 million.
Source: SRK, 2017. Totals may not sum due to rounding.
Planned Mining Operations
The Elk Creek Project is planned as a high-grade underground mining operation using a long-hole stoping mining method and paste backfill, with shaft access to minimize development through water bearing horizons. The mine will utilize jumbo drills for lateral development and tophammer and down-the-hole drills for vertical development and production stoping. Bolters will be used for ground support. Ore will be remotely mucked from the bottom stope accesses using 14 tonne Load-Haul-Dump units (“LHD”). The LHDs will transport the ore to remuck bays to maximize the efficiency of the stope mucking operations. A second LHD and a fleet of 40 tonne haul trucks will be used to transport ore from the remuck bays to the grizzly feeding the underground material handling system. The ore is fed through the grizzly with a rock breaker into an underground crusher (the “Primary Crusher”) and via a material handling system to the surface.
Planned Processing Operations
Planned ore process operations include mineral processing, hydrometallurgical processing (“Hydromet”), and pyrometallurgical processing (“Pyromet”) housed in separate buildings.
The mineral processing building will house all of its equipment within a single large building. The primary driver of mineral processing is the dry processing of ore. Ore from the Primary Crusher (located in the underground mine) will be fed to the secondary cone crusher system, operating in closed circuit with a double deck screen. The screen undersize from the cone crusher system will be fed to a high-pressure grinding roll unit (“HPGR”), operating in closed circuit with another double deck screen. The HPGR screen undersize is the comminution product that will report to the Hydromet process.
The Hydromet plant building will be a multi-level engineered steel structure which will house equipment on two levels. Ore from mineral processing will be fed through 12 individual processes required to separate the three recoverable products. The purpose of the Hydromet processing steps is to leach the pay metals into solution using two separate acid leaches (HCl Leach and Sulfuric Acid Bake), remove impurities, separate the three pay metals, and perform precipitation/processing to final solid oxide forms. Outputs from the Hydromet Process include saleable titanium dioxide and scandium trioxide, with niobium pentoxide reporting to the Pyromet plant for final processing. The Hydromet plant will be supported by a Hydrochloric Acid Regeneration plant and a Sulfuric Acid Plant.
The Pyromet building will house most of its equipment within a single building. The purpose of the Pyromet plant is to reduce the niobium pentoxide coming from the Hydromet feed by converting it into a saleable ferroniobium (FeNb) metal. Aluminum shots and iron oxide pellets will be introduced to an electric arc furnace on a continuous basis along with fluxing agents and niobium pentoxide to produce a saleable FeNb metal.
Proposed Production Plan and Schedule
Based on the Elk Creek Feasibility Study, the operating mine life is approximately 32 years with a nominal processing rate of 2,760 tonnes per day. The Elk Creek Project timeline is based on First Metal 42 months after Authorization to Proceed, plus an additional 3 months of Ramp-up to 80% of production capacity for a total of 45 months, and assumes no financing constraints. The NioCorp board must approve a construction program and budget before construction of the Elk Creek Project can begin. This approval, along with the receipt of all required governmental permits and approvals and the completion of project financings, will determine whether and when construction of the Elk Creek Project can begin.
Proposed Tailings Storage
The tailings produced by the process plant will consist of filtered water leach residue, calcined excess oxide, and slag. Four tailings storage facilities (“TSF”) will be constructed sequentially to contain the tailings over the life of the project, and would contain approximately 13.5 million tonnes of tailings. The tailings facilities have been designed to incorporate two independent areas: a composite-lined tailings solids storage area; and an area with double lined containment including a leak collection and recovery system for management of stormwater runoff and drainage from the tailings solids. The TSFs will store predominantly dry (i.e., not in a slurry consistency) tailings from the plant with embankment construction based on a “downstream” construction method. Facility closure is considered in the design.
Planned Water Management
For the first several years of construction, the advancement of the shaft and underground workings will require subsurface dewatering. The waterline to the Missouri River is a critical element to the Elk Creek Project to allow discharge from the dewatering process that will be required to construct and operate the mine. The waterline to the Missouri will require the installation of a 914 cm (36 inch) diameter pipeline within County Right-of-Way (“ROW”) of four counties in southeast Nebraska, the crossing of State Highways as well as railroad crossings. The waterline will also require multiple pump stations and a diffuser structure constructed in the Missouri River. A majority of the waterline and associated facilities will be constructed within ROW while portions will require acquisition of property from private property owners.
The Elk Creek Project will require multiple permits in order to construct and operate the system and to discharge the water to the Missouri River. The process of obtaining the 404 and 408 permits from the USACE and the permit to discharge to the Missouri River from the State of Nebraska are underway. Permits associated with occupying or crossing ROW and railroads as well as the Nebraska Department of Environmental Quality (“NDEQ”) construction permit will be prepared during the preliminary and final design phases of the Elk Creek Project. The waterline construction schedule has been evaluated and deemed to be feasible in regard to the overall construction schedule for the mine. Certain activities related to data collection and preliminary design of the waterline should commence in the near future to facilitate the overall Elk Creek Project schedule.
Because the mine dewatering flow will exceed site process water requirements, approximately 25% of the flows will be used as makeup to a Water Treatment Plant. The major feed to the water treatment plant will be the discharge from the process plant. A water treatment plant including Reverse Osmosis treatment will be used to provide up to 300 gpm of potable water for the site, in addition to providing 1,575 gpm to the production process.
Power
The local power utility (Omaha Public Power District) will provide power from nearby transmission lines to the site. This will require that an approximate 18-mile transmission line be installed by the utility to provide the site sub-station with the required site power demand. The local power utility will also design and install the main substation that will be owned and maintained by the utility. This infrastructure will be paid back through rate changes on the electrical usage.
Natural Gas
A total of four interstate pipelines intersect in the region of Beatrice NE which is approximately 28 miles to the West of the plant site. Discussions have been initiated with all four pipelines and two local gas distributors to accept proposals for running a lateral from one of the interstate pipelines to the project site. The interstate gas line owner will install/own/operate the lateral pipeline to the site. The capital cost and the cost of transportation will be assessed in a tariff on the natural gas used. The interstate pipeline owner will obtain the necessary permits, rights of way and land acquisitions as well as the metering and pressure regulation station at the project site.
Markets
Market studies for niobium, titanium dioxide and scandium trioxide are an important part of the proposed Elk Creek operation. These commodities, especially niobium and scandium trioxide (scandium), are thinly traded without an established publicly available price discovery mechanism. Hence, detailed third party market studies provide the basis for assumptions used in the economic analysis.
SRK carried out a Niobium Marketing Study in Q2 2017 at the request of NioCorp. Based on this marketing study, the Elk Creek Feasibility Study used the recommended real 2017 U.S. dollar base price of $40/kg Nb as the forward looking price for steel grade (65%) ferroniobium. The base price is adjusted to a realized price to account for the discount provisions contained in the two ferroniobium offtake agreements that the Company has concluded.
NioCorp engaged OnG Commodities LLC (OnG) to produce a preliminary market assessment in April 2017 (OnG, 2017). The study examines current scandium production trends (~20 t/y) from existing and emerging producers plus an outlook for supply to 2028. The outlook then reviewed the current and emerging applications for scandium including fuel cells, aerospace, industrial and other uses plus and an outlook for demand to 2028. Based on these inputs, OnG provided pricing forecasts and global demand volumes by year to 2028 based estimated production costs and supply-demand balances.
No formal market study was done for titanium dioxide (TiO2) during the report period as it only represents 2% of overall revenue in the economic analysis. All market information for titanium and titanium dioxide is derived from USGS Commodity Market Summaries (Bedinger, 2016) and an internal SRK price database.
Taxation
Taxes that may be levied on the Elk Creek Project can be summarized as follows:
●Corporate Income Tax (CIT) rates are 35% for Federal and 7.81% for Nebraska
●Federal taxable income is subject to Alternative Minimum Tax (AMT) of 20%
The Elk Creek Project is eligible for federal depletion allowances and credits, as well as various state incentives. The calculated effective income tax rate for the Elk Creek Project is 24.1%.
Environmental and Social
A number of key permits and environmental management requirements have been identified for the Elk Creek Project, some of which need to be implemented as soon as practicable in order to maintain the proposed Elk Creek Project schedule.
●While not necessarily complex, the timing generally required to complete permitting through any federal regulatory agency requires that NioCorp engage key agencies (in this case the USACE and possibly the EPA) early on in Elk Creek Project development, and consider the siting and orientation of facilities carefully in order to minimized the risk of a protracted National Environmental Policy Act analysis of the Elk Creek Project.
●Perhaps one of the most critical approvals likely to be needed by the operation will be a radioactive materials license from the Nebraska Department of Health and Human Services (“NDHHS”), Office of Radiological Health. Because of their limited experience with hard rock mining in the State of Nebraska, much less mining that includes Naturally Occurring Radioactive Material, the NDHHS may require additional information and more time to approve the Elk Creek Project under a Broad Scope License. Early and frequent engagement is a necessity with respect to this regulatory agency.
●Documentation of existing baseline environmental conditions at the Elk Creek Project site was initiated in 2014 and should continue throughout the permitting process. Additional studies will need to be added once regulatory authorities have been given an opportunity to review the current mine plan presented in the Elk Creek Feasibility Study and assess their particular data needs for approval of the Elk Creek Project.
●Surface water monitoring should continue throughout the permitting process, and extend into construction and operations as part of the Environmental Management System. The NDEQ Water Quality Division has been engaged in order to discuss the Elk Creek Project and potential data needs for a National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System discharge permit. This would include both local discharges (if needed) as well as discharges to the Missouri River.
●A wetland delineation and potential jurisdictional waters assessment was conducted in late 2014 to identify wetland and drainage features within the proposed Elk Creek Project boundary which resulted in a formal JD being issued by the USACE on September 6, 2016. The entire project outside of the last 900 feet of the Missouri River waterline has been authorized under the non-notifying provisions of Nationwide Permit 12. The final 900 feet will be authorized concurrently under Nationwide Permit 12 and a USACE Section 408 authorization for impacts to the Missouri River Bank Stabilization structure
●Closure costs for the Elk Creek Project have been estimated at just over $39 million, including approximately $17 million for reclamation and closure of the tailings disposal facility and $16 million for plant and building removal and reclamation.
●Community engagement has occurred in parallel with Nebraska field operations and has included public meetings, presentations to public agencies, communications with local and state politicians, meetings with environmental groups, and one-on-one meetings with area landowners.
Proposed Activities
As funds become available through the Company’s fundraising efforts, the following activities would be undertaken:
●Acquisition of key land parcels currently subject to the Company’s Option to Purchase agreements
●Conclusion of definitive natural gas and electrical supply agreements
●Continuation of the Company’s efforts to secure federal, state and local permits
●Initiation of detailed engineering for project facilities
●Acquisition of the remaining land rights needed for the Company’s waterline to the Missouri River
●Negotiation of engineering, procurement and construction agreements
●Initiation of mine dewatering activities
●Initiation of long-lead equipment procurement activities
Corporate Headquarters
We lease our executive office space at 7000 South Yosemite Street, Suite 115, Centennial, Colorado.
ITEM 3.