ITEM 2.
PROPERTIES.
We have a single mineral claim, La Carlota, located in the Republic of the Philippines. The title indicates that the Company owns the property outright.
Mineral rights in the Philippines are obtained by direct purchase from another land owner of a mining parcel.
The Department of Energy and Natural Resources also sells parcels of land for mining purposes.
The type of license obtained by the Company is legally known as an Exploration Permit (“EP”)
La Carlota Gold Claim can be identified in the Philippines by the following information:
Property Name:
La Carlota Gold Mine
Certificate Number:
PCLC1028858
Title Number:
CA188042
Registration Received:
June 11, 2010; Entered on June 14, 2010
Title Granted On:
June 30, 2010
Parcel Identifier:
058-735-651
8 Unit Claim Block:
97.3 Hectares
Our mining geologist, Angelo Ventura, recommended a two phase exploration program of this property but as of the date of this Form 10-K work has been undertaken on the La Carlota (refer to page 20).
The following glossary of technical terms is furnished herein to assist in the understanding the various geological terms used in Angelo Ventura’s report and elsewhere in this Form 10-K.
Amphilbolite
A crystallized rock containing silica and basically little or no quartz.
Andesite
A dare-colored, fine-grained extrusive rock that is comprised mainly of quartz and some feldspar.
Anorthosite
A plutonic rock composed almost entirely of plagioclase, which is comprised of sodium and calcium feldspar.
Aplite
A light-colored igneous rock characterized by fine-grained saccharodial, which is comprised of quartz,
Potassium feldspar and some acid plagioclase.
Argillite
A rock derived either from siltstone, claystone or share, that has undergone a somewhat higher degree of induration than is present in those rocks. It lacks the cleavage distinctions of slate.
Assays
An analysis to determine the quantity of one or more elemental components contained within a sample.
Auriferous
Refers to a substance that contains gold, esp. gold-bearing mineral deposits.
Basalt
A general term for dark-colored mafic igneous rocks and is equivalent to gabbro.
Bauxite
An off-white, grayish, brown, yellow, or reddish brown rock composed of aluminium oxides and often occurs as weathered surface deposits after prolonged leaching of silica the rocks in a tropical or subtropical area.
Caldera
A large, basin-shaped volcanic depression, more of less circular, the diameter of which is many times greater than that of the included vent or vents, no matter what the steepness of the walls or form of the floor may be.
Chanrockites
A rock containing granite but composed mainly of quartz.
Chert
A hard, dense and fine grained sedimentary rock consisting of interlocking crystals of quartz less that 30 um in diameter.
Claim
A mining right obtained from the government which comprises a land mass.
Clinopyrozene
A group name for monoclinic pyroxenes which contain magnesium and iron.
Cretacious Age
Applied to the third and final period of Mesozonic Era, approximately 100 million year ago wherein this period extensive marine chalk beds were deposited on the Earth’s surface.
Crystalline
Made of crystal. Resembling a crystal; clear, transparent and pure.
Dolerite
A basaltic type rock comprised mainly of fine grains.
Dynamothermal
A rock formed under direct pressure and shearing as well as a wide range of confining pressures and temperatures. It is related both geographically and genetically to large orogenic belts and hence is regional in nature.
Extrusive
Said of igneous rocks that have been erupted onto the surface of the Earth. Examples are lava flows and volcanic ash.
Fault
A fracture in a rock across which there has been a displacement.
Feldspar
Any of a group of crystalline minerals, aluminium silicates with either potassium, sodium, calcium or barium and an essential constituent of nearly all crystalline rocks.
Gabbro
Any of a family of granular igneous rocks especially of plagioclase which is a mineral with accessory to iron ore.
Gneiss
A layered rock altered by heat or pressure after disposition.
Grade
A concentration of an ore metal in a rock sample, given either as weight per cent for base metals (eg. copper, zinc) or in grams per tonne or ounces per short ton for precious or platinum group metals.
Granodiorite
A course grained rock composed of quarts and feldspar with other minerals associated with it.
Gypsum
Composed of hydrous calcium sulphate and is used for making plaster of Paris.
Hornfels
A fine-grained rock composed of a mosaic of equidimensional metamorphism.
Igneous
A rock resulting from the action of heat within the earth, usually accompanied by fusion which is formed by the solidification of a molten magma.
Intrusions
The forcible entry of molten rock or magma into or between other rock formations.
Laterite
A residual product of rock decay, red in color and having a high content in the oxides of iron and hydroxide of aluminium.
Leptynite
A fissile variety of hornfels containing mica, quartz and feldspar with or without accessories such as andalusite and cordierite.
Lignite
A noncaking, usually brownish-black, variety of coal intermediate between peat and bituminous coal, esp. one in which the texture of the original wood is distinct.
Limestone
A bedded sedimentary deposit consisting chiefly of calcium carbonate.
Lode
Strictly a mineral deposit that fills a fissure in the native rock. Any ore deposit occurring in its natural or original position within definite boundaries, separating it from adjoining rocks.
Magnetite
An iron oxide and important ore, sometimes possessing polarity, being then called loadstone.
Metamorphic
Involving physical transformation or change in the composition of the rock often from weathering and cementation.
Metasediment
A sediment or sedimentary rock that shows evidence of having been subjected to metamorphism.
Mica
Any of a group of mineral silicates crystallizing in monoclinic forms that readily separates into very thin leaves. Is an excellent electrical and thermal insulator.
Mineralization
Potentially economic concentration of commercial metals occurring in nature.
Mineral Reserve
Mineral Reserves are sub-divided in order of increasing confidence into Probable Mineral Reserves and Proven Mineral Reserves. A Probable Mineral Reserve has a lower level of confidence than a Proven Mineral Reserve.
A Mineral Reserve is the economically mineable part of a Measured or Indicated Mineral Reserve demonstrated by at least a Preliminary Feasibility Study. This Study must include adequate information on mining, processing, metallurgical, economic and other relevant factors that demonstrate, at the time of reporting, that economic extraction can be justified. A Mineral Reserve includes diluting materials and allowance for losses that may occur when the material is mined.
A “Probable Mineral Reserve” is the economically mineable part of an Indicated and, in some circumstances, a Measured Mineral Resource demonstrated by at least a Preliminary Feasibility Study. This Study must include adequate information on mining, processing, metallurgical, economic and other relevant facts that demonstrate, at the time of reporting, that economic extraction is justified.
A “Proven Mineral Reserve” is the economically mineable part of a Measured Mineral Resource demonstrated by at least a Preliminary Feasibility Study. This Study must include adequate information on mining, processing, metallurgical, economic and other relevant factors that demonstrate, at the time of reporting, that economic extraction is justified.
Monzonite
A granular igneous rock composed of augite, plagioclase and orthoclase in about equal quantities together with a little biotite.
Ore
The naturally occurring mineral from which a mineral or minerals of economic value can be extracted.
Paragniesses
A characteristic associated or occurrence of minerals or mineral assemblages in ore deposit, connoting contemporaneous formations.
Pegmatite
A course variety of granite occurring in dikes or veins; also, the same formation in other rocks; as , syenite.
Pyrite
An iron sulphide mineral often called “Fool’s Gold”.
Pyrrhotite
A monoclinic and hexagonal mineral often deficit in iron with a bronze yellow with iridescent tarnish and in some cases it is a source of nickel.
Quartz
A form of silica occurring in hexagonal crystals or in crystalline masses. It is the most common of all solid minerals and may be colorless and transparent, or in some cases colored.
Quartzite
A compact granular rock composed of quartz. It is a metamorphosed sandstone.
Schist
Any metamorphic crystalline rock having a foliated structure and readily split into slabs or sheets.
Shear
An area where rocks have moved in earthquake related type of activity and broken up the rock.
Telluride
A binary compound of tellurium, a non-metallic element analogous of sulphur and selenium , and is usually combined with other metals.
Tonalite
A rock comprising quartz, feldspar, amphiboles and pyroxenes.
Wollastonite
A native calcium silicate, a monoclinic mineral of varying color, usually in cleavable masses.
For ease of reference, the following conversion factors are provided:
Metric Unit
U.S. Measure
U.S. Measure
Metric Unit
1 hectare
2.471 acres
1 acre
0.4047 hectares
1 metre
3.2881 feet
1 foot
0.3048 metres
1 kilometre
0.621 miles
1 mile
1.609 kilometres
1 gram
0.032 troy oz.
1 troy ounce
31.1 grams
Summary of La Carlota and Recommendations by Angelo Ventura
In 2010, the Company acquired a 100% interest in the La Carlota that was staked to cover gold zones. The Carlota is located 6 miles northeast of Maao, 9.5 miles northwest of Bago which is basically the closest city to the Carlota.
Exploration work previously done on the La Carlota had indicated there are some favorable areas worthy of further exploration work. Nevertheless, the Company feels that only through an extensive exploration work as set forth by Angelo Ventura, Professional Geologist, it might have a chance to identify an ore body. The question remains as to whether the grade and tonnage is sufficient to warrant a production decision in the future.
Disclaimer
In order to write his report, Angelo Ventura, had to rely upon historical and current geological reports of the area, comprising annual reports, papers, geological survey maps and assessment reports, mainly obtained from The Mineral Resources Department of the Ministry of Energy and The Mineral Resources of the Government of the Republic of the Philippines. Between June 23 and 25, 2010, Angelo Ventura visited the La Carlota for the purpose of evaluating the exploration potential of the claim.
Surrounding Area in the Philippines
Most of the Philippines is made up of deposits of shell and eroded sand which is basically limestone. Over the centuries, the limestone was pushed upwards which today results in one being able to find sea shells in many of the mountains within the country. The Philippines are characterized by steep mountains which are not covered by forests of any degree. Due to the lack of forest cover, rain falling on the mountains can easily washed into the sea below thereby causing erosion. The central part of the Philippines contain vase areas of copper, gold and coal reserves which in many situation are currently being mined.
Monarchy Resources, Inc. is preparing to conduct preliminary exploration work on La Carlota. The Company commenced the work on the La Carlota during the month of July 2011 and obtained a report prepared by Jonathan Malig, Professional Geologist, on December 13, 2011 outline the results of Phase 1 which are detailed on page 20.
Prior to Phase 1 commencing in July 2011, there has been no preliminary exploration work on the La Carlota. The exploration program under Phase I was conducted in accordance to generally accepted exploration procedures with methods and preparation that are consistent with generally accepted exploration practices.
Property Location and Description
La Carlota claim project consists of one unpatented mineral claim, located 30 kilometres northwest of the city of La Carlota at UTM co-ordinates Latitude 17 25’00”N and Longitude 121 26’00”E. The mineral claim was assigned to Monarchy Resources, Inc. by Rodelio Mining Ltd. (an unrelated company) and the said assignment was filed with the Mineral Resources Department of the Ministry of Energy and Mineral
Resources of the Government of the Republic of the Philippines.
There are no known environmental concerns or parks designated for any area contained within the claims. The property has no encumbrances. As advanced exploration proceeds there may be bonding requirements for reclamation.
Monarchy Resources, Inc. has purchased a 100% interest in La Carlota.
Our executive officers have been to the La Carlota mineral claim. They were involved in every phase of the purchase of the claim. The decision to purchase the claim was based on the recommendation of the Company’s consulting geologist and the positive mining history of the area.
Mr. Ventura recommended La Carlota mineral claim to the directors and based upon his recommendation the mineral rights to La Carlota were acquired. There is no relationship between Rodelio Mining Ltd., Mr. Ventura and the Company. The directors selected Mr. Ventura to prepare the geological report. Management retained Mr. Ventura to conduct geological consulting work for Phase 1 of our exploration program in July 2011 - the month the work started.
Royalty Obligations
None.
Accessibility, Climate, Local Resources, Infrastructure, and Topography
La Carlota claim is accessible from city of La Carlota by travelling on the country’s only highway system which consists of, for the most part, one lane in each direction and by taking an all weather gravel road. The city of La Carlota lies in a non-active seismic area. The city was formed in the so-called Carbon period, some 350 million years ago. During this period, large shallow marshes were formed with abundant vegetation. The rotting plants and trees in these marshes turned into peat and later into coal. The city still has large coal reserves, which is the basis for the city’s current coal mining industry.
The Philippines is situated between 5 and 22 degrees North Latitude. This means the country falls within the so-called tropical climate zone, a zone characterized by high temperatures the whole year round, relatively high rainfall and lush vegetation. Rainfall on the city can occur in every month, but the wettest months are October, November and December. Annual rainfall is approximately 1.5 metres. Due to the steep, deforested mountains, around 60 percent of the rainwater runs quickly to the sea. The remaining 40 percent partly evaporates and partly seeps through to the island’s underground water aquifer.
La Carlota’s area has an experienced work force and will provide all the necessary services needed for an exploration and development operation, including police, hospitals, groceries, fuel, helicopter services, hardware and other necessary items. Drilling companies and assay facilities are present in the city of La Carlota.
Geological setting
Regional Geology of the Area
The hilly terrains and the middle level plain contain crystalline hard rocks such as charnockites, granite gneiss, khondalites, leptynites, metamorphic gneisses with detached occurrences of crystalline limestone, iron ore, quartzo-feldspathic veins and basic intrusive such as dolerites and anorthosites. Coastal zones contain sedimentary limestones, clay, laterites, heavy mineral sands and silica sands. The hill ranges are sporadically capped with laterites and bauxites of residual nature. Gypsum and phosphatic nodules occur as sedimentary veins in rocks of the Cretaceous Age. Gypsum of secondary replacement occurs in some of the areas adjoining the foot hills of the Western Ghats. Lignite occurs as sedimentary beds of tertiary age. The Black Granite and other hard rocks are amenable for high polish. These granites occur in most of the districts except the coastal area.
Stratigraphy
The principal bedded rocks for the area of La Carlota (and for most of the Philippines) are Precambrian rocks which are exposed along a wide axial zone of a broad complex.
Intrusive
In general, the volcanoes culminate with effluents of hydrothermal solutions that carry precious metals in the form of naked elements, oxides or sulphides.
These hydrothermal solutions intrude into the older rocks as quartz veins. These rocks may be broken due to mechanical and chemical weathering into sand size particles and carried by streams and channels. Gold occurs also in these sands as placers.
Gold belts in sheared gneissic rocks is found in three sub-parallel auriferous load zones where some blocks having 250 to 500 meter length and 1.5 to 2 meter width could be identified as most promising ones.
Structure
Depositional Environment / Geological Setting: Veins form in high-grade, dynamothermal metamorphic environment where metasedimentary belts are invaded by igneous rocks.
Host / Associated Rock Types: Hosted by paragneisses, quartzites, clinopyroxenites, wollastonite-rich rocks, pegmatites. Other associated rocks are charnockites, granitic and intermediate intrusive rocks, quartz-mica schists, granulites, aplites, marbles, amphibolites, magnetite-graphite iron formations and anorthosites.
Tectonic Setting(s): Katazone (relatively deep, high-grade metamorphic environments associated with igneous activity; conditions that are common in the shield areas).
Deposit Types
Deposits are from a few millimetres to over a metre thick in places. Individual veins display a variety of forms, including saddle-, pod- or lens-shaped, tabular or irregular bodies; frequently forming anastomosing or stockwork patterns.
Mineralization is located within a large fractured block created where prominent northwest-striking shears intersect the north striking caldera fault zone. The major lodes cover an area of 4 km and are mostly within 600 m of the surface. Lodes occur in three main structural settings:
(i)
Steeply dipping northwest-striking shears;
(ii)
Flat-dipping fractures (flatmakes); and
(iii)
Shatter blocks between shears.
Most of the gold occurs in tellurides and there are also significant quantities of gold in pyrite.
Mineralization
No mineralization has been reported for the area of the property but structures and shear zones affiliated with mineralization on adjacent properties pass through it.
On the east side of the La Carlota is intrusives consisting of rocks such as tonalite, monzonite and gabbro while the La Carlota itself is underlain by sediments and volcanics. The intrusives also consist of a large mass of granodiorite towards the western most point of the property. The area consists of interlayered chert, argillite and massive andesitic to basaltic volcanics. The volcanics are hornfelsed, commonly contain minor pyrite and pyrrhotite.
The La Carlota is associated with Precambrian rocks that are present throughout the claim. These rocks consisting of chert and argillites, basically sediments, and andesitic to basaltic volcanic have been intruded by granodiorite. There is mineralization on the claim but past work has been limited and hence the potential of La Carlota has not been tested.
Exploration
Previous exploration work has not included any attempt to drill the structure on La Carlota. Records indicate that no detailed exploration has been completed on the property. No drilling is reported on the La Carlota.
All the exploration conducted to date has been conducted according to generally accepted exploration procedures with methods and preparations consistent with generally accepted exploration practices. Angelo Ventura stated in his report that “no opinion as to the quality of the samples taken can be presented. No other procedures of quality control were employed and no opinion on their lack is expressed.”
Recommendations
Angelo Ventura recommended a two phase program for future exploration work on the La Carlota in order to define areas of interest and mineralization. First an air photo interpretation of the various structures on La Carlota would undertaken to determine the structures. In conjunction with this photo interpretation a geological mapping of the La Carlota and immediate surrounding areas would have to be undertaken which would identify main showings. Second exploration technique would be geophysical surveying using both magnetic and electromagnetic instrumentation of the areas defined as structures of interest containing mineralization. A systematic system of soil sampling would be undertaken in the area of interest to determine the type of mineralization and the grade contained therein. All the initial exploration work would be undertaken to define an area of interest that a drilling program could subsequently be undertaken.
Budget
Angelo Ventura recommended a budget of PHP 1,799,729 (US$41,090) as follows:
Phase I (Completed)
Philippine
Currency
United States
Currency
Geological mapping including air photo
315,268
$ 7,198
Geophysical surveying
291,500
6,655
Total Phase I
606,768
13,853
Phase II
Geochemical surveying with surface mapping including grab and soil samples
1,192,961
27,237
Total Phases I and II
1,799,729
$ 41,090
The above conversion rate has been done at PHP 43.8 to US $1.00. (July 11. 2011 rate at PHP 42.62 to US $1.00)
Phase I was commenced in July 2011 and the report issued by Jonathan Malig was dated December 13, 2011.
Requirements to Maintain La Carlota in Good Standing in the Philippines
Safety standards and environmental standards must be met at all times to keep the mining license for the Company current. Licensing fees must be paid in full (approximately US$650.00) before exploration and the Company is responsible for all fees and costs.
A new license can take up to 30 days to process and the renewal of an existing license takes up to 14 days to process. There are no bonding requirements for the Company but the mining company used for exploration purposes must be fully bonded and approved by the Department of Environmental and Natural Resources (DENR) and Mines and Geoscience. The DERN also has the right to inspect the Company’s property on demand to ensure all criteria are being met.
Exploration Results from Phase I
The Company undertook Phase I exploration program during the fall of 2011 engaging the services of Jonathan Malig, Professional Geologist, who was available to complete the work for the Company. In his report entitled “Independent Geological Mapping of the La Carlota Property” he indicated the Company “commenced grass root exploration and geological mapping of the La Carlota Gold Claim. Since the initial discovery, the Company has escalated activity and sampling program, including some 1.1 km of manual costean sampling. Gold, silver and base metal mineralization occurs in anastomosing quartz + pyrite + sulphide veins within intensely fractured then silicified east-west trending sub vertical structures, and in sheeted quartz + pyrite + base metal veins parallel to schistosity. Results to-date indicates background gold mineralization up to 0.5g/t Au, with grade consistently increasing in the vicinity of these sub vertical structure zones. Works completed so far have outlined mineralization within an envelope approximately 1.5 km long x 0.6 km wide.
The mineralized zone remains open in all directions. Initial geological observation suggests that mineralization exists north and east of the identified mineralization window, and additional sampling in the expanded area is underway. In addition to geochemical sampling, first-pass ground magnetic surveys have been conducted on the La Carlota prospect concurrently with the costean sampling program. Seven north-south lines were completed totaling approximately 7 line kilometers across the La Carlota target area. The initial interpretation of the total magnetic intensity (TMI) signature suggests three main interest areas being;
1. a zone of magnetic high covering the northern portion of the survey area. This
area is yet to be tested and is considered highly prospective;
2. a northeast-southwest trending zone of magnetic low occupying the southern
portion, coinciding with the La Carlota Gold prospect area defined to date;
3. a circular magnetic high south of La Carlota prospect.
The TMI results strongly correlate with surface geological and geochemical
observations to date further supporting the interpreted broad scale epithermal gold, base metal system and potential for a porphyry style system within the area.
The circular magnetic high immediately south of La Carlota Prospect (marked SN 15149 on the magnetic intensity diagram above) has returned coincidental elevated, gold, silver, copper, and zinc from rock chip outcrop samples. Further work is underway to advance definition of the mineralization. Initial rock-chip sample assays include:
n
36.7 g/t Au, 22.4 g/t Ag, 3.04 % Cu & 10.1 % Zn in outcrop sample 15152
n
19.1 g/t Au, 19.7 g/t Ag, 3.92 % Cu & 1.95 % Zn in outcrop sample 15150
n
11.9 g/t Au, 15 g/t Ag, 1.3 % Cu & 9.75 % Zn in outcrop sample 15149
n
3.75 g/t Au, 8 g/t Ag, 0.84 % Cu & 4.07 % Zn in outcrop sample 15151
Further high-grade gold results from La Carlota
Highlights:
1.
Multiple intersections of broad mineralization identified in costean samples up to 34m @ 3.29 g/t Au, 39.17 g/t Ag.
2.
Numerous meter scale interval samples above 10 g/t au, with best results of 1m @ 70 g/t Au, 22.5 g/t Ag
3.
New high grade copper zone identified with best outcrop rock chip samples of 36.7 g/t Au, 22.4 g/t Ag, 3.04 % Cu & 10.1 % Zn, and 19.1 g/t Au, 19.7 g/t Ag, 3.92 % Cu & 1.95 % Zn
Monarchy Resources is undertaking intense costean and grid based soil sampling programs in the area. Latest results received include broad zones of gold and silver mineralization, with intervals of very high grade ore.
Best continuous costean sample results include:
n
34m @ 3.29 g/t Au, 39.17 g/t Ag from costean KSTC 30, including 8m @ 6.39 g/t Au & 57.24 g/t Ag 6m @ 4.86 g/t Au &84.83 g/t Ag
n
21m @ 2.17 g/t Au, 4.34 Ag from costean KSTC37, including 4m @ 5.11 g/t Au, 2.95 g/t Ag
n
7m @ 3.04 g/t Au, 2.54g/t Ag from costean KSTC 25
n
11m @ 2.45 g/t Au, 8.92 g/t Ag from costean KSTC 42, including 3m @ 7.8 g/t Au, 23.37 g/t Ag
n
12m @ 2.75 g/t Au, 4.8 g/t Ag from costean KSTC 42, including 3m @ 7.53 g/t Au, 12.73 g/t Ag
n
7m @ 2.17 g/t Au, 18.72 g/t Ag from costean KSTC 36
n
7m @ 2.43 g/t Au, 0.67 g/t Ag from costean KSTC 38
Additional bonanza high-grade veins existed within the broader zones and include:
n
1m @ 70 g/t Au, 22.5 g/t Ag from costean KSTC 33
n
1m @ 54 g/t Au, 66.1 g/t Ag from costean KSTC 29
RECOMMENDATION & CONCLUSION
Based on the results of the exploration and the geological mapping done to date, an extensive diamond drilling program is recommended as it is clearly evident that significant mineralization exists on the property.
The soil sampling results (which are shown below) also suggest that an extensive diamond drilling program is merited and that significant mineralization exists on the property.
The soil sampling, highlights are as follows:
·
3,5km soil anomaly co-incident with hard rock artisanal gold working
·
Four prospects defined, with three currently being explored
·
Granite-hosted quartz vein and stock work deposit
·
Visible gold identified in 25 holes
·
Artisanal workings define a 16km-long mineralised corridor
·
Systematic soil and stream sampling over majority of license completed
·
IP resistivity / radiometric survey completed
·
12 trenches complete
Monarchy’s Main Product
Monarchy’s main product will be the sale, if a mineral ore reserve is identified, of gold that can be extracted from the La Carlota once the claim has been explored. Since the property has yet to be explored by us, we have yet to find an ore body and therefore cannot sell any ore.
Exploration Facilities
The Company has no plans to construct a mile or smelter on the La Carlota until an ore body of reasonable worth is found; which might never happen. While in the exploration stage, the crew of workers will be housed in the town of Bago due to its close proximity to La Carlota. This will initially avoid building any structures either permanent or removable on the claim.
Other Mineral Properties
We has not yet considered any other mineral properties until such time as we have undertaken at least Phases I and II as recommended by Angelo Ventura. We would like to diversify our holdings once we have adequate funds to do so. This may not be for some time due to having to undertake exploration work on La Carlota. Similar to La Carlota, we will not acquire any mineral claims from either of our two officers or directors.
Employees
As of February 6, 2013, our Company did not have any employees either part time or full time other than its directors and officers. While in the early exploration stage our Company will not wish to bear the burden of carrying full time employees especially during periods when the claim is not being worked on. The executive officers initially undertook the responsibility of initially identifying the La Carlota, incorporating the Company, obtaining the assistance of professionals as needed, contributing the initial “seed capital”, coordinating various filings with the independent accountants and attorneys and other matters normally performed by the executive officers. Neither of our officers and directors are paid for the services they perform on behalf of the Company.
We are not a party to any employment contracts or collective bargaining agreements. The Philippines area has a relatively large pool of people experienced in exploration of mineral properties; being mainly geologist and mining consultants. In addition, there is no lack of worker and consultants initially on a part time basis.
Competition
In the Philippines, there are numerous mining and exploration companies, both big and small. Every mining company is constantly seeking mineral properties of merit and most of them will have the funds to acquire and explore these properties. Our Company does not have the funds at this time to compete with these mining companies and it might never have the funds to compete.
The exploration business is highly competitive and highly fragmented, dominated by both large and small mining companies. Success will largely depend on our Company’s ability to attract talent from the mining industry in the Philippines.
Even though we have the rights to the La Carlota there is no guarantee we will be able to raise sufficient funds in the future to adequately explore the claim. We might have to seek out a joint venture partner thereby losing percentage interest in La Carlota. In the event we are unable to pay our proportional share of the exploration costs we might be forced to dilute our interest in La Carlota.
If we are successful in discovering an ore body we might not be able to find refineries to mill the ore at a reasonable rate and hence might not be able to commence commercial production. At this time the Company does not have any contractual agreements with a refining company and there is the distinct possibility it might never have. There is no assurance that the Company’s mineral expansion plans will ever be realized.
Risk Inherent in La Carlota
Monarchy and its management are aware of the following risks:
1.
La Carlota does not contain a known body of commercial ore and, therefore, any program conducted on La Carlota would be exploratory search for ore.
2.
There is no certainty that any expenditures made in exploration of La Carlota will result in the discovery of commercial quantities of ore. Most exploration projects do not result in the discovery of commercially mineable deposits of ore.
3.
Resource exploration and development is a speculative business in that our company might not be able to raise any funding subsequent to the raising of funds from our two directors.
4.
Failure to discover a mineral deposit at all is as bad as finding a mineral deposit which, though present, is insufficient in size or grade to return a profit from production. The marketability of any minerals acquired or discovered may be affected by numerous factors which are beyond Monarchy’s control and which cannot be accurately predicted, such as market fluctuations, the proximity and capacity of milling facilities, mineral markets and processing equipment, and such other factors as government regulations, including regulations relating to royalties, allowable production, importing and exploring of minerals, and environmental protection.
5.
Mining operations generally involve a high degree of risk. Hazards such as unusual or unexpected formations and other conditions are involved. Our Company may be subject to liability for pollution, cave-ins or hazards against which it cannot insure or which it may not elect to ensure. The payment of such liabilities may have a material, adverse effect on our financial position.
6.
La Carlota has never been surveyed and, accordingly, the precise location of the boundaries of the property and ownership of mineral rights on specific tracts of land comprising the claim might be in doubt.
ITEM 3.