Item 2. Properties
The Los Gatos District
The technical information appearing below and elsewhere in this Report concerning the Los Gatos District was derived from the Los Gatos Technical Report dated July 1, 2020 prepared by Tetra Tech. The Los Gatos Technical Report was prepared by the following qualified persons, each of whom is an employee of Tetra Tech: Guillermo Dante Ramírez Rodríguez, Leonel Lopez, Kira Johnson, Keith Thompson, Kenneth Smith, Luis Quirindongo and Max Johnson. None of the qualified persons who prepared the Los Gatos Technical Report is affiliated with us or any other entity that has an ownership, royalty or other interest in the CLG or the Los Gatos District.
Location of the Los Gatos District and Access
The Los Gatos District covers approximately 103,087 hectares in the south-central part of the State of Chihuahua in northern Mexico, within the municipality of Satevó. The Los Gatos District is roughly centered on Latitude 27° 34’ 17” N, Longitude 106° 21’ 33” W, near the town of San José del Sitio. The Los Gatos District is located approximately 120 kilometers south of the state capital of Chihuahua City and approximately 100 kilometers northwest of the mining city of Hidalgo del Parral.
San José del Sitio is accessible by a nearly 100% paved road from the turnoff of Federal Highway 24 at the 81 kilometer marker between the cities of Chihuahua and Hidalgo de Parral. The access road can be traveled by any motorized vehicle and has regular bus services to the surrounding communities. The Los Gatos District area is accessible by a large network of dirt and gravel roads that are used by local owners and lessees to access grazing areas for cattle and local ranches. Northern areas of the Los Gatos District are also accessible from several gravel roads connecting with Mexican Federal Highway 24 between the 60 kilometer to 81 kilometer markers. In more remote areas, the rolling topography permits easy access by foot into areas where roads do not exist.
There are a limited number of qualified workers in San José del Sitio, but technical workers (e.g., miners, electricians, mechanics, computer technicians, etc.), heavy equipment and specialized operators can be found in the surrounding area and at Parral, 88 kilometers southeast. Primary and secondary-level technical schools are available in Valle de Zaragoza, and all levels of schooling are available in Parral and/or Chihuahua, each 2.5 hours away by vehicle.
See “Item 1A. Risk Factors - Risks Related to Our Business and Industry - The title to some of the mineral properties may be uncertain or defective, thus risking our investment in such properties” for a discussion of factors or risks that may affect access or title or the right or ability to perform work on the property.
See Section 4.1 of the Los Gatos Technical Report for further specific information of the location of the Los Gatos District.
Mining Concessions
The Los Gatos District is made up of a series of 17 claim titles covering approximately 103,087 hectares. The titled mining concessions are summarized below:
Los Gatos District - Titled Mining Concessions
In addition, there are several small concessions within the Los Gatos District area that have been cancelled and not yet liberated by the Dirección General de Minas, which we intend to apply for once liberated. We have also arranged for permission to enter and perform exploration activities on a number of private land properties in the district area.
These concessions are held by MPR. The concessions have a period of validity that ranges between 2054 and 2062. MPR holds the rights to the concessions of Los Gatos and Paula Adorada subject to the terms of an agreement with the original holder of the concession. These agreements have been duly recorded in the Mexican Public Registry of Mines. Details of these agreements are provided below.
Royalty and Agreement on Los Gatos Concession
The Los Gatos concession is subject to the terms of an exploration, exploitation and unilateral promise of assignment of rights agreement made between La Cuesta International, S.A. de C.V. and MPR, dated May 4, 2006. Pursuant to this agreement, title to the Los Gatos concession was transferred to MPR and, in connection with the transfer, MPR is required to make semi-annual advanced royalty payments of $20,000 to La Cuesta International, S.A. de C.V. until the commencement of commercial production and thereafter is required to pay a 2% net smelter returns royalty on production from the Los Gatos concession and a 0.5% net smelter returns royalty from lands within a one-kilometer boundary of the Los Gatos concession, subject to a minimum royalty payment in the same amount as the advanced royalty payment. Once total royalty payments reach $10 million, the 2% net smelter returns royalty will decrease to 0.5% and once total payments have reached $15 million, the royalty will no longer be payable. MPR paid a royalty payment of $40,000 per year during the preproduction period. Upon commencing production, payments under this agreement were deferred until March 31, 2021 with an annual interest rate of 4.5% applied to the outstanding balance. During the deferral period, MPR will pay an advance royalty payment of $100,000 per year until
January 2021. Subsequent to March 31, 2021, the outstanding balance from the deferral period will be repaid in four quarterly payments of $500,000 with the remaining outstanding balance paid in full by March 31, 2022. As of December 31, 2020, $13,865,000 remained for future royalty obligations. During the term of the agreement, MPR is required to comply with all mining, environmental and other applicable laws in order to maintain its right and title to the Los Gatos concession.
Unanimous Omnibus Partner Agreement
The Los Gatos District is owned and operated through the Unanimous Omnibus Partner Agreement. Pursuant to this agreement, the LGJV cannot make any “Major Decisions” without first having obtained Dowa’s consent or without first having obtained the consent of holders of at least 90% of the interest in the LGJV, depending on the time such Major Decisions are made. Major Decisions, as defined in the agreement, include the significant operating decisions of the LGJV, such as, among other decisions, budgeting, development and exploitation approvals, loan and outside financing approvals, expansion of area of interest, surrendering claims, the creation of security interests on property, any initial public offering of the joint venture, and litigation settlements. Therefore, despite holding a majority equity interest in the LGJV, we do not exercise control over the LGJV.
On March 11, 2021, we repurchased an approximate 18.5% interest in the LGJV from Dowa, increasing our ownership to 70.0%. Following this increase in our ownership interest in the LGJV, we continue to not exercise control over the LGJV due to certain provisions contained in the Unanimous Omnibus Partner Agreement that currently require unanimous partner approval of all major operating decisions (such as certain approvals, the creation of security interests on property, any initial public offering of the joint venture, and litigation settlements).
Priority Distribution Agreement
On May 30, 2019 and in connection with the memorandum of understanding dated April 16, 2019, we entered into a priority distribution agreement with MPR, OSJ and Dowa, pursuant to which we directed the LGJV to contribute dividend payments to an escrow account until an aggregate amount equal to $20 million has been deposited into the account, which is payable to Dowa as a priority dividend.
Sales Agreements
OSJ (the “Seller”), an entity that forms part of the LGJV, entered into a delivery contract, dated April 14, 2019, with Metagri S.A. de C.V. (“Metagri”), whereby Metagri agreed to buy and accept delivery of, and the Seller agreed to sell and deliver to Metagri, all lead concentrate that will be produced from the CLG until December 31, 2021. The lead concentrate will ultimately be delivered to Metagri’s warehouse in Manzanillo, Mexico.
The Seller also entered into a delivery contract, dated July 15, 2019, with Ocean Partners, whereby Ocean Partners agreed to buy and accept delivery of, and Seller agreed to sell and deliver to Ocean Partners, all zinc concentrate that will be produced from the CLG until June 30, 2022. The zinc concentrate will ultimately be delivered to Dowa’s zinc smelter in Akita, Japan, unless otherwise agreed to by Dowa. The Seller, from time to time, will enter into memoranda of agreement setting forth the terms and conditions for the sales of zinc concentrate.
From time to time, the Seller may enter into certain spot sale contracts should impurities in lead and zinc concentrate exceed certain specifications. Since the commencement of production, the Seller has entered into spot sale contracts due to high fluorine content for some production, including substantially all the lead concentrate produced in 2020.
Climate and Topography
The Los Gatos District area is located in the Sierras y Llanuras del Norte Physiographic Province near the boundaries between the Gran Meseta, Cañones, the Sierras and Llanuras Tarahumara Sub Provinces. The general physiography of the Los Gatos District is characterized by low to middle rolling volcanic hills
with local escarpments and flat valley floors. Altitudes vary with between 1,550 masl at the base of the Santo Toribio Creek and 1,780 masl at the top of the Los Gatos Hill, one of the highest peaks of the Los Gatos District area.
Vegetation is characterized by a semi-desert landscape, with typical low brush vegetation in the slopes, including lechuguilla, sotol, yucca, sage, bear grass and other types of indigenous grasses. Larger brush and trees are common along the main watercourses, with the presence of oak, cypress, poplar, huizache and mesquite, among others.
The climate in the area is typical of desert areas of northwest Mexico, extreme semi-arid. Exploration and mining activities at the Los Gatos District are seldom interrupted by adverse weather conditions, with the exception of short-lived storms producing floods and damage to access roads.
Geological Setting
The Los Gatos District is located in the transition zone between the Sierra Madre Occidental volcanic province of western Mexico and the Mesozoic Chihuahua basin to the east. It is also located in the general contact zone between the Sierra Madre Occidental, Chihuahua and Parral tectonostratigraphic terranes.
The area is largely characterized by a thick sequence of Tertiary volcanic rocks that are generally dissected by a strong north-northwest bearing fault system that divides the area into the plateau and barranca sections and are subdivided in two major units, the Lower Volcanic Group and Upper Volcanic Group. The area is one of the largest known epithermal, precious-metal metallogenic provinces and is host to several well-known gold-silver producing mining districts in Mexico, such as Concheño, Batopilas, San Dimas-Tayoltita and Ocampo.
The dominant rocks of the Los Gatos District area are thick accumulations of intermediate tuffs and lavas, with lesser felsic rocks, and Upper Cretaceous (Cenomanian) to Lower Paleocene aged sandstones, shales and limestones correlative with the Mezcalera formation, locally metamorphosed to phyllites, quartzites and marbles near areas of igneous activity. Rocks of this oldest sedimentary sequence occur within a small horst block located to the northwest of the Cerro Los Gatos District, with prominent high-angle fault boundaries on the north and south, parallel to the regional trend of faulting. Intruding and deposited on the entire section are locally important rhyolite flows, flow domes and dikes, usually strongly silicified, that have all of the varied textures expected with the development of flow domes, including breccias, flow banding and intrusive/extrusive transitions. Each of the rocks in the section contains observable hydrothermal alteration that suggests that mineralization in the area probably occurred late in the history of the development of the volcanic section. It is important to stress, however, that economic grades of mineralization have only thus far been identified in the andesite and dacite sections.
History of the Los Gatos District
The Los Gatos District has been the subject of very limited historical prospecting and mineral exploration, including the development of shallow workings and preliminary exploration activities by Consejo de Recursos Minerales (now the Servicio Geológico Mexicano, the Mexican Geologic Survey) at the Esther, Gavilana (Paula) and San Luis zones with references to the occurrence of silver, lead and zinc. The construction and development work has not uncovered any evidence of past modern prospecting activities in the area. The Los Gatos District was initially recognized by reconnaissance activities by La Cuesta International Inc. in 2005 and later offered to Los Gatos Ltd. (original parent of MPR). An initial letter of agreement for exploration work on the Los Gatos District was negotiated and a final contract ratified in April 2006 between MPR and La Cuesta International S. A. de C.V. (the Mexican subsidiary of La Cuesta International Inc.). Only minor field work was conducted in 2006 and 2007 on the Los Gatos District during the waiting period for the initial concession to be titled, and formal exploration activities and drilling were conducted by MPR from and after 2008.
Exploration
The Los Gatos District consists of three identified silver discoveries - the CLG, the Esther deposit and the Amapola deposit - and 11 other mineralized zones with over 150 kilometers of outcropping quartz and calcite veins are also located in the Los Gatos District.
As of December 31, 2020, 739 exploration drill holes have been completed in the Los Gatos District, totaling 267,060 meters. In late 2020, the LGJV recommenced its definitional drilling campaign at Cerro Los Gatos.
Drill sites are selected based on surface vein outcrops and geometric projections into the subsurface, as well as geochemical, geophysical and geological targets. Drilling is conducted using a wire line rig with diamond core capabilities. Holes begin with HQ size and are reduced, if necessary, to NQ and very rarely BQ, if difficult drilling conditions are encountered. Holes are surveyed with a Flexit EZ trac device at 50-meter intervals as the holes are completed. Surveys of drill hole-collar coordinates locations are completed by a local contract topographer using a Topcon Total Station GTS-236W. All information pertinent to the drilling is stored in a master database in Microsoft Access®. Additional drilling at the CLG is aimed at upgrading the confidence of the resource and identifying mineralized extensions along strike and down dip.
In addition to the drilling conducted at the CLG, the Esther deposit and the Amapola deposit, MPR has conducted limited exploration drilling programs in other areas in the Los Gatos District which include Boca de Leon, Cieneguita, El Lince, El Rodeo, La Paula, Los Torunos Mezcalera, Ocelote, San Agustin, San Luis and Wall-E/Ava. While anomalous levels of mineralization have been identified in each of these zones other than Wall-E/Ava, drilling data is too limited to speculate as to the presence of economic quantities of mineralization. Additional drilling will be required in each area to delineate the mineralization identified.
Los Gatos District Mineralogy
The Los Gatos District hosts a series of quartz, quartz-calcite and calcite veins in at least fifteen separate vein systems that are exposed along a strike length of approximately 30 kilometers and an outcrop belt width of approximately five kilometers. Vein width is generally in the order of one meter, but local wide zones up to eight meters in outcrop and true vein widths in excess of 30 meters have been identified by diamond drilling. Structurally, the veins form two sets, with north and northwest strikes and mostly steep dips. West/northwest trending fault and fracture zones probably reflect reactivated basement structures, whereas many of the north/northwest trending faults probably are associated with basin-and-range extension. Epithermal mineralization is associated with both phases of extension, so both trends have exploration potential; however, the basement architecture has overall control on the distribution of magmatic centers and hydrothermal systems.
Mineralization at the Los Gatos District is characterized by silver, lead, zinc and copper sulphides and their oxides, along with fluorite, manganese, barite and traces of gold associated with quartz and calcite veins. The veins vary in orientation from west-northwest to northwest to north-northwest to north-northeast and vary in thickness from one meter to eight meters outcrop, but with much greater true width at depth based upon diamond drilling. Study of the veins in hand specimen and thin section suggests that they are epithermal in origin and are likely of intermediate sulfidation composition, showing vein textures and gangue mineralogy that indicate a relatively high-level hydrothermal system in the boiling environment. Breccia with clasts of vein quartz indicates a protracted hydrothermal system during multiple faulting events, a positive sign for economic epithermal veins. It has been interpreted that mineralized-ore shoots may extend relatively far down dip, possibly to at least 250 meters.
The CLG vein system is persistent, with a general northwest trend dipping to the east, a mapped extension in the order of ten kilometers, and true widths of as much as 30 meters and local associated veining up to 50 meters wide. Banded quartz veins and breccias are cemented by quartz, calcite and abundant manganese oxides. A study based on geological characteristics and silver-lead-zinc (arsenic-antimony-mercury) anomalous sections of the vein resulted in the discovery of the Los Gatos listric-shaped mineralized horizon hosting the steeply to shallowly dipping mineralized-shoots at depth. Mineralization of interest is seen for approximately 2,500 meters in length and for an estimated average vertical extension in the order of 200 meters. The reported average drilled true width of the structure is in the order of 8.9 meters. It has been interpreted that the top of the mineralized horizon at Los Gatos is generally located at an elevation of 1,400 masl.
Original exploration activities at the Esther vein system indicated the presence of a narrow quartz vein, less than one meter, with minor veining and silicification and noticeable lack of calcite. However, the presence of a small high-grade mineralized-shoot, probably 60 meters deep, attracted interest in the area. Drilling of
this area also resulted in the discovery of the Esther mineralized-shoot, which has a known length of 800 meters for the main mineralized-shoot, as well as up to 1,200 meters of additional mineralized vein. The height of the mineralized interval is indicated by two drill holes to be in the order of 100 meters; most mineral intersections range in the order of two meters to eight meters, with a probable average slightly over three meters. It has been interpreted that the top of the favorable horizon at Esther is generally located about 120 meters below the surface.
The Amapola deposit contains several vein systems at varying degrees of strike and dip that are the target of exploration. Currently, four of these veins comprise adequate Ag grade and thickness to be considered as mineralized material and geologically modeled. The four veins include the Albita, Elizabeth, Cascajal and Julia. The mineral resources are principally present on the Albita and Elizabeth veins, which together comprise a “corridor” of mineralization up to approximately 50 meters thick.
Sampling, Analysis and Data Verification
MPR has carried out sampling campaigns that have included surface, limited underground and core samples. Samples were taken by local crews under the supervision of either a geologist of MPR or one of their contractors. Sampling intervals were, in most cases, two meters, with local variations depending on vein geology, to a minimum of 0.8 meters where structures were found. Detailed sampling was carried out at intervals directed by geological criteria, with priority given to testing high-grade zones in the vein structures and attention also given to identifying possible mineralization in the wall rock and quartz stockwork veining.
MPR established a sampling protocol, which was followed through the drilling campaign, that in summary includes: supervision by MPR personnel, with the verification of core handling, recovery, core accommodation and depth recording by the contractor; and core collection, measurement, core recovery, photographing, specific gravity, geotechnical information and sampling interval selection by MPR geologists.
Detailed logging of the sample intervals is conducted once the core samples are sawed, with detailed descriptions and estimations of mineralogy and mineral content, hydrothermal alteration, veining and fracturing. Assay intervals are divided in two equal parts by diamond saw, with most sampling conducted on two-meter intervals, except for specific vein intervals. Vein intervals are selected for more detailed sampling, with a minimum of 0.8 meters per interval in the sample and a maximum of two meters.
Samples are collected in standard plastic sample bags and tagged with a unique sample number recorded for each interval. Samples are grouped by drill hole and transported by pickup truck to the ALS Chemex laboratories sample receiving location in Chihuahua City, Mexico. From the time the core samples leave the drill site to the time the samples are delivered to ALS Chemex, they are escorted and under the supervision of personnel from MPR.
Samples are dried, crushed and pulverized by ALS Chemex in Chihuahua City. Assay orders are delivered to the lab, and a copy of the receipt obtained is filed and registered in MPR’s database. Sample pulps are then shipped by ALS Chemex to their laboratory in Vancouver, Canada for ICP analyses of silver, base metals and trace elements using a four-acid digestion technique. Gold assays are also completed using fire assay-AA preparation on 30-gram splits of the sample material.
ALS Chemex has developed and implemented at each of its locations a Quality Management System (QMS) designed to ensure the production of consistently reliable data. As a result, the lab has received, including its sample preparation section in Guadalajara, the ISO 9001:2000 QMS registration from QMI. The ALS Laboratory Vancouver branch has also been accredited as conforming to requirements of Canadian regulations in this matter.
MPR has set up a Quality Assurance/Quality Control (QA/QC) program to monitor the drilling program at the Los Gatos District, including the use of: (1) blanks (barren silica sand or barren andesitic flow material inserted wherever the geologist deems appropriate, but no less than one for every 40 samples focused on areas of higher metal values, which could lead to contamination); (2) standards are added every 20th sample (MPR has purchased 12 different standards from Rocklabs Ltd.); and (3) duplicates are also analyzed every 50 samples (each batch) by placing two sample tickets in the same sample bag and having the lab generate two pulps of the same sample for analysis.
It is believed that core sampling is representative of mineralized intersections, with minor variations due to irregularities in mineralization, and that the QA/QC programs established by MPR and the sampling process follow industry standards and support the estimation of mineral resource.
A review was made of available information derived from previous exploration work. This information included geological and sampling reports, drill logs, as well as assay results. Verification consisted of a general review of geological characteristics of the main mineralized areas, shown by the MPR field checking of geological maps in all areas and of sampling procedures by MPR as well as a review of all vein intersections and discussions of detailed sample handling, sampling and security procedures established by MPR. The original locations of samples reviewed were located, although most require re-painting. Tetra Tech verified several drill hole location monuments with a handheld global positioning system.
Tetra Tech has conducted sample verification to evaluate whether the samples selected by MPR for metallurgical and hardness testing were geologically representative of the material in the mine plan. The review found that: samples were well selected with respect to various grades, alterations and host rock; there was no apparent metal domaining or zoning in the deposit; and that most of the samples fall within the bulk of the grade distributions and sampling of the higher-grade material has been accounted.
Mineral Resource Estimates - CLG, Esther and Amapola Deposits
All blocks in mineral resource estimates contained in the Los Gatos Technical Report have been delineated by appropriately spaced drilling. Grade and tonnage have been estimated within a digital three-dimensional block model using the Kriging method. Mineral resources have been estimated for three individual deposit areas: the CLG, Esther and Amapola deposits. The mineral resource estimates contained in the Los Gatos Technical Report have an effective date of September 6, 2019 and have not been updated since that time. We believe that activity at the CLG subsequent to the effective date of the mineral resource estimates would not result in a material change to the information contained in the Los Gatos Technical Report. The mineral resource estimates contained in the Los Gatos Technical Report are presented on an undiluted basis without adjustment for mining recovery.
For the CLG, a cut-off grade of 150 grams silver equivalent/tonne was estimated using generalized parameters, including the following: $40/tonne for mining costs; $20/tonne for processing costs; $4/tonne for general and administrative costs; 83% recovery at an assumed price of $18.00/oz silver; 92% recovery at an assumed price of $0.92/lb lead; and 77% recovery at an assumed price of $1.01/lb zinc. For the Esther deposit, a cut-off grade of 100 grams silver equivalent/tonne was estimated using generalized parameters, including the following: $40/tonne for mining costs; $20/tonne for processing costs; $3/tonne for general and administrative costs; 100% recovery at an assumed price of $22.30/oz silver; 95% recovery at an assumed price of $0.97/lb lead; and 88% recovery at an assumed price of $0.91/lb zinc. For the Amapola deposit, a cut-off grade of 100 grams silver equivalent/tonne was estimated using generalized parameters, including the following: $40/tonne for mining costs; $20/tonne for processing costs; $3/tonne for general and administrative costs; 100% recovery at an assumed price of $22.30/oz silver; 95% recovery at an assumed price of $0.97/lb lead; and 88% recovery at an assumed price of $0.91/lb zinc.
Projected revenues from the sale of silver, zinc and lead are based upon long-term consensus prices that were the averages of long-term forecast prices that MPR obtained from various financial institutions as of the effective date of the respective mineral resource estimates. As of the effective date of the respective mineral resource estimates, the long-term consensus prices reflected the best estimate of the sales price that may be realized in the future from the mineral resources. Gold and copper, being part of the epithermal system, are included in the Mineral Resource estimate as comparisons, however they have not been considered for purposes of determining the Ag/Eq cut-off grade since copper in the final concentrates sold would not receive any payment and gold revenue is estimated at only 2.78% of the payable metal.
The tonne and grade estimates in the block model are based on drill hole assay sample intervals. The vein widths are constrained by three-dimensional solids and have not been diluted.
Sample intervals were composited to two meters, which is the mode sample length. Compositing was initiated and terminated at the top and bottom of continuous selected vein samples, resulting composites were permitted to be one to two meters in length and intervals less than one meter were rejected. As part of
the Kriging process, composite influence was additionally weighted by interval length to provide further normalization. Compositing greater than two meters was determined not to be appropriate because three-meter composites would cause samples to be split and four-meter composites are too large to represent the vein across drip in some areas. At the Amapola deposit, ordinary Kriging was used. A single Kriging pass was made on each of the four veins and their secondary nearest neighbor. An inferred pass was only made for the Albita and Elizabeth veins. Similarly, at the Esther deposit, grade estimation was completed using ordinary Kriging. An initial Kriging pass was made on each of the three veins and followed by a secondary nearest inferred pass.
Density of each block was determined from measured density samples within the mineralized zones and Kriged as a block attribute.
The table below summarizes the mineral resource estimates at the CLG and the Esther and Amapola deposits as of December 31, 2020.
Los Gatos District Mineral Resource Estimates Inclusive of Mineral Reserves as of December 31, 2020
(1)
Based on a cut-off grade of 150 grams silver equivalent/tonne at assumed metal prices of $18.00/toz silver, $0.92/lb lead and $1.01/lb zinc; gold was not considered in silver equivalent calculation. Mineral reserve estimates and mineral resource estimates contained in the Los Gatos Technical Report have different effective dates and are based on different dilution and recovery factors and cut-off grades. The mineral resource estimates contained in the Los Gatos Technical Report have an effective date of September 6, 2019 and include mineral reserves. We believe that activity at the CLG subsequent to the effective date of the mineral resource estimates would not result in a material change to the information contained in the Los Gatos Technical Report. The mineral resource estimates contained in the Los Gatos Technical Report are presented on an undiluted basis without adjustment for metallurgical recovery. The mineral reserve estimates contained in the Los Gatos Technical Report have an effective date of July 1, 2020 and exclude 655,746 tonnes of mineral reserves that have been mined through June 30, 2020. Subsequent to July 1, 2020, 363,857 tonnes of material have been mined through December 31, 2020, which we believe would not result in a material change to the information contained in the Los Gatos Technical Report.
(2)
Based on a cut-off grade of 100 grams silver equivalent/tonne using metal prices of $22.30/toz silver, $0.97/lb lead, and $0.91/lb zinc. The mineral resource estimates for the Esther and Amapola deposits have an effective date of December 21, 2012. The mineral resource estimates contained in the Los Gatos Technical Report are presented on an undiluted basis without adjustment for metallurgical recovery.
The table below summarizes the mineral resource estimates exclusive of reserves at the CLG as of December 31, 2020.
CLG Mineral Resource Estimates Exclusive of Mineral Reserves as of December 31, 2020
Resources based on a cut-off grade of 150 grams silver equivalent/tonne at assumed metal prices of $18.00/toz silver, $0.92/lb lead and $1.01/lb zinc; gold was not considered in silver equivalent calculation. Mineral reserve estimates and mineral resource estimates contained in the Los Gatos Technical Report have different effective dates and are based on different dilution and recovery factors and cut-off grades. The mineral resource estimates contained in the Los Gatos Technical Report have an effective date of September 6, 2019. We believe that activity at the CLG subsequent to the effective date of the mineral resource estimates would not result in a material change to the information contained in the Los Gatos Technical Report. The mineral resource estimates contained in the Los Gatos Technical Report are presented on an undiluted basis without adjustment for metallurgical recovery. Reserves are based on a $75 NSR cut off value. NSR is defined as revenue per tonne mined less the sum of concentrate refining, treatment and transportation costs per tonne mined. The mineral reserve estimates contained in the Los Gatos Technical Report have an effective date of July 1, 2020 and exclude 655,746 tonnes of mineral reserves that have been mined through June 30, 2020. Subsequent to July 1, 2020, 363,857 tonnes of material have been mined through December 31, 2020, which we believe would not result in a material change to the information contained in the Los Gatos Technical Report. The mineral reserve estimates for the Cerro Los Gatos Mine reflect diluted grades with adjustment for metallurgical recovery.
The material assumptions for the mineral resource estimates at the CLG include (i) resource estimation completed by Tetra Tech in MicroMine mining software using drill hole data provided by MPR, (ii) usage of histograms and probability plots to determine where high-grade distribution tails became unsupported or deviated from lognormal and application of upper limits for grade capping, (iii) compositing sample intervals to two meters to match the mode sample length, (iv) using geological modeling and vein modeling, (v) using specific gravity measurements and (vi) no dilution being accounted for in the mineral resource estimates. See Section 14.1 of the Los Gatos Technical Report. The material assumptions for the mineral resource estimates at the Amapola deposit include (i) resource estimation completed by Tetra Tech in MicroMine software technology using drill hole data provided by MPR, (ii) using ordinary Kriging, with a single Kriging pass being made on the four veins of the Amapola deposit and a secondary nearest neighbor inferred pass made only for two of the veins and (iii) using specific gravity measurements to estimate vein density. See Section 14.2 of the Los Gatos Technical Report. The material assumptions for the mineral resource estimates at the Esther deposit include (i) resource estimation completed by Tetra Tech in MicroMine software technology using drill hole data provided by MPR, (ii) using ordinary Kriging, with a single Kriging pass made on each of the three veins of the Esther deposit followed by a secondary nearest neighbor inferred pass and (iii) using specific gravity measurements to estimate vein density. See Section 14.3 of the Los Gatos Technical Report.
The CLG mineral resource estimates inclusive and exclusive of mineral reserves as of December 31, 2019 are substantially similar as those set forth in the tables above as of December 31, 2020. On September 1, 2019, the LGJV commenced commercial production. The mineral resource estimates contained in the Los Gatos Technical Report have an effective date of September 6, 2019 and have not been updated since that time. We believe that activity at the CLG subsequent to the effective date of the mineral resource estimates would not result in a material change to the information contained in the Los Gatos Technical Report. The mineral reserve estimates contained in the Los Gatos Technical Report have an effective date of July 1, 2020 and exclude 655,746 tonnes of mineral reserves that have been mined through June 30, 2020. Subsequent
to July 1, 2020, 363,857 tonnes of material have been mined through December 31, 2020, which we believe would not result in a material change to the information contained in the Los Gatos Technical Report.
We are unaware of any title, taxations, socio-economic, marketing, political or other relevant factors that could materially affect this mineral resources estimate.
Mineral Reserve Estimates - CLG
The mineral reserve estimates contained in the Los Gatos Technical Report include the portion of the measured and indicated resource that can be mined economically. Economic criteria and mining constraints (based on the selected mining methods) are applied to the resource blocks to define mineable blocks. Mineral reserves are determined after applying dilution and recovery factors to these mineable blocks.
Mineral reserve estimates are calculated from the mine plan created from the September 2019 resource update. The mineral reserve estimates contained in the Los Gatos Technical Report have an effective date of July 1, 2020 and exclude 655,746 tonnes of mineral reserves that have been mined through June 30, 2020. Subsequent to July 1, 2020, 363,857 tonnes of material have been mined through December 31, 2020, which we believe would not result in a material change to the information contained in the Los Gatos Technical Report.
The table below shows the reconciliation of mined tonnage and grades to the modeled reserve depletion through December 31, 2020, with differences resulting primarily from different sequencing of stopes and variances in ore tonnes:
A cut-off grade of $75/tonne NSR value was used to calculate reserves. Projected revenues from the sale of silver, gold, zinc and lead are based upon long-term consensus prices of $18.99/oz silver, $1,472/oz gold, $0.87/lb lead and $1.09/lb zinc. These prices were the averages of long-term forecast prices that MPR obtained from nine financial institutions. As of the effective date of the mineral reserve estimates, the long-term consensus prices reflected the best estimate of the sales price that may be realized in the future from the mineral reserves. See Section 21 of the Los Gatos Technical Report.
We are unaware of any title, taxation, socio-economic, marketing, political or other relevant factors that could materially affect this mineral reserve estimate.
The table below summarizes the mineral reserve estimates at the CLG as of December 31, 2020, which includes dilution and recovery factors.
CLG Mineral Reserve Estimates as of December 31, 2020
Reserves based on a $75 NSR cut-off value. NSR is defined as revenue per tonne mined less the sum of concentrate refining, treatment and transportation costs per tonne mined. The mineral reserve estimates for the CLG reflect diluted grades with adjustment for metallurgical recovery. The mineral reserve estimates contained in the Los Gatos Technical Report have an effective date of July 1, 2020 and exclude 655,746 tonnes of mineral reserves that have been mined through June 30, 2020. Subsequent to July 1, 2020, 363,857 tonnes of material have been mined through December 31, 2020, which we believe would not result in a material change to the information contained in the Los Gatos Technical Report.
Proven reserves exceed measured resources as a result of the different dilution and recovery factors and cut-off grades being used for mineral reserve estimates compared to mineral resource estimates. Mineral reserve estimates have an effective date of July 1, 2020, account for dilution and recovery factors and are based on a cut-off grade of $75/tonne NSR. In contrast, mineral resource estimates for the CLG have an effective date of September 6, 2019, are presented on an undiluted basis without adjustment for mining recovery and are based on a cut-off grade of 150 grams silver equivalent/tonne.
The material assumptions for the mineral reserve estimates at the CLG include (i) assigning NSR values to the block model, (ii) using a dilution strategy developed by a geomechanical consultant, (iii) application of mining recovery factors, including stope recovery and drift-and-fill recovery and (iv) application of dilution and recovery factors to stope tonnage and using Deswik scheduling software to develop a LOM development and production schedule. See Section 15 of the Los Gatos Technical Report.
The CLG mineral reserve estimates as of December 31, 2019 are substantially similar as those set forth in the tables above as of December 31, 2020. On September 1, 2019, the LGJV commenced commercial production. The mineral reserve estimates contained in the Los Gatos Technical Report have an effective date of July 1, 2020 and exclude 655,746 tonnes of mineral reserves that have been mined through June 30, 2020. Subsequent to July 1, 2020, 363,857 tonnes of material have been mined through December 31, 2020, which we believe would not result in a material change to the information contained in the Los Gatos Technical Report.
Mineral Processing and Metallurgical Testing
The CLG is a silver-lead-zinc deposit with relatively complex mineralogy. Upon review of the metallurgical testing data, it was clear that the CLG mineralization responded well to a conventional sequential silver-lead-zinc flotation processing. Zinc rougher flotation tailings and zinc first cleaner scavenger tailings are combined to become the final tailings. Tailings thickener underflow (100%) is pumped to a cyanide destruction facility. Currently, all tailings are disposed of in the tailings storage facility. Once the backfill plant is in operation, and after detox, 40% of final tailings will be pumped to the backfill plant and the remaining 60% will be pumped to the tailings storage facility. Operational results have indicated that additional removal of fluorine will be required. Additional floatation cells have been added to the lead and zinc circuits, with a goal of reducing the fluorine in the final concentrates.
The expected grades and recoveries for lead, zinc, and silver to individual flotation concentrates were further investigated by a pilot plant program at SGS Lakefield using a sample composed of a bulk sample accessed by an underground decline into the orebody. The results of that program are being finalized but preliminary indications generally support the study grade and recovery estimates provided herein.
Positive lead and silver flotation results were achieved from the SGS Vancouver Metallurgical Lab. The final lead cleaner concentrates of the locked cycle tests averaged 60.9% lead at 5,404 g/t silver at average recoveries of 89% lead and 68.7% silver. The zinc cleaner concentrates averaged 54.2% at an average recovery of 66.0% due to the high willemite content.
Mining Operations
The underground mine design supports a steady-state production rate of 2,500 tpd of ore. As of the effective date of the Los Gatos Technical Report, over the life of the mine, the mine is projected to produce 81 million ounces of silver, 69 thousand ounces of gold, 878 million pounds of zinc, and 499 million pounds of lead in concentrate. The sequence of mining began with the Central Zone, which had already been accessed via the existing decline developed down to the 1400 Level. The bulk of the Central Zone will
be mined using the drift-and-fill method, as the dips, widths and thicknesses of the vein structures are amenable to this mining method.
The Northwest Zone is being mined concurrently with the Central Zone via longhole stoping methods with sublevels developed at 20 meter vertical intervals. Portions of the Northwest Zone that are thicker than nine meters (footwall to hanging wall) will be mined using transverse longhole mining. Areas that are less than nine meters in width will be mined using longitudinal longhole mining. In the Central Zone, operations confirmed that backfill deficiencies caused unstable conditions on the hanging-wall zone, as it was experienced in stope 625, where the stability problems created blocks causing the support to yield. The predicted conditions in this zone have been accurate. In the Northwest Zone, the operating geotechnical conditions have been better than the anticipated conditions. This has allowed the excavation of bigger dimensions in the stope length (more than 12 meters), and the planned activities have considered excavating more in the vertical dimension of the stope (25 meters height). Some of the stability problems found in this zone are mainly due to drilling deficiencies, which have reached areas near the hanging-wall fault zone. The 3D modeling of the Southeast Zone did not identify any issues except for potential hanging wall failure.
Modern trackless mobile equipment is being employed for most mining activities. Load-Haul-Dump (“LHD”) trucks and dedicated underground trucks are used for ore/waste loading and transport from the underground workings through an internal ramp system and portal that connects all levels to surface. Ongoing waste development to sustain the 2,500 tpd production rate averages approximately 211 meters/month during the production period.
Based on the deposit geometry and anticipated geomechanical conditions, underground mining of the CLG resource will incorporate both longhole and drift-and-fill mining methods. The existing exploration decline from surface will be extended to provide primary access and delivery of services. The ramp will also be used for haulage of ore and waste from the underground operations.
Processing and Recovery Operations
The processing facility is designed to treat 2,500 tpd of silver, lead and zinc material at an operational availability of 92%. The processing flow sheet for the project is a standard flow sheet commonly used in the mining industry, including conventional flotation recovery methods typical for lead-zinc material. The production plant has been constructed and adjustments will continue to optimize performance. Additional flotation cells have been installed to remove fluorine from the concentrates.
Run-of-mine (“ROM”) material is crushed in a primary jaw crusher located near the underground mine portal. It is then conveyed to the processing facilities where it is ground to 80% finer than 45 microns in a semi-autogenous grinding and ball milling circuit. The ore is further processed in a flotation circuit, consisting of lead flotation followed by zinc flotation. The majority of the silver will be recovered in the lead flotation circuit and some silver will also be collected in the zinc flotation circuit. Lead sulfide is recovered in a rougher flotation bank, producing a concentrate that is then upgraded to smelter specifications in three stages of cleaning. Tails from the lead flotation section is then conditioned for zinc sulfide flotation. The process scheme for zinc flotation also includes a rougher bank and five stages of cleaning to produce smelter-grade zinc concentrates. For both lead and zinc sections, the rougher flotation concentrates are reground to 80% finer than 25 microns prior to cleaner flotation to liberate the sulfides for further upgrading. An additional deep-froth flotation cell has been added to the zinc circuit, and one additional deep-froth flotation cell has been added to the zinc and lead circuits during 2020, to remove more fluorine, a deleterious mineral for sales. Both final lead and zinc concentrates are thickened, filtered and stored in concentrate storage facilities prior to being loaded in trucks for shipment.
Infrastructure, Permitting and Compliance Activities
In addition to the recently constructed CLG processing plant and other facilities, we have a field camp located in nearby San José del Sitio, a community of approximately 264 persons, with electrical and water services, an elementary school and basic health services. Water resources in the region are mostly related to the Conchos River Basin, which includes the San Pedro, San Francisco de Borja and Satevó River Sub-Basins. Locally, there are significant amounts of water, with shallow groundwater recorded from most exploration drilling conducted by us.
Underground development of the CLG commenced in 2015 and surface infrastructure development commenced in 2017. All significant surface infrastructure was completed in mid-2019 and the CLG commenced production of lead and zinc concentrates on September 1, 2019. The CLG processing plant is currently designed for 2,500 tpd capacity and the grinding circuit was engineered for expansion to 3,000 tpd in the future.
The CLG is located in the Municipality of Satevó, Chihuahua, Mexico, approximately 160 kilometers southwest of the state capital of Chihuahua City and approximately 8 kilometers west of San José del Sitio, Chihuahua. The access road from Chihuahua, Mexico is newly paved. A portion of the road from San José del Sitio was rerouted to the mine site to minimize interference with the stream that runs near the mine property.
Construction of required infrastructure has been completed, including administration offices, mine dry, fuel storage, mine maintenance shop, jaw crushing station, dome-covered crushed ore stockpile, process plant (including grinding circuit, flotation circuit, concentrate and tailing thickeners, concentrate loadout and tailings detoxification), tailing storage facility, electrical substation, 66 kilometers of power line connecting high voltage to the grid substation at San Francisco de Borja, assay lab, mill maintenance, dewatering wells and water cooling and distribution system, and residential camps and associated infrastructure.
The camps consist of structural steel pre-engineered buildings capable of housing over 350 people. The camps include kitchen and cafeteria, laundry, infirmary, and other buildings required to maintain this facility. Emergency power is provided for in the camp to deliver 100% backup in the event of a power outage.
The entire project is served by satellite-dish based internet and telephone communications.
Power to the site is supplied via a 115 kV utility transmission line. This originates from the San Francisco de Borja substation in Satevó (Chihuahua), where a 115 kV connection has recently been installed.
All raw water to meet potable and non-potable water demand is supplied by groundwater pumped from dewatering wells. The well water is cooled from 50°C to 40°C prior to use. Sewage water treatment systems were included to handle waste as required on the project.
Storage and management of landfill disposal is housed in a single building, separated into two zones - one for non-hazardous waste and a second zone for hazardous waste. The hazardous waste is to be collected and disposal by a certified and authorized company per Mexican regulations.
In 2008, we negotiated surface access rights with local ranch owners and obtained environmental permits for drilling. In April 2012, we entered into a mine and land access agreement with the local community, the Ejido La Esperanza (the “Ejido”), which provides annual land access with a renewal fee of $11,200. We also maintain an easement contract for 30 years with the Ejido for the access road to the mine.
On December 12, 2016, MPR submitted an environmental impact statement to the Mexican Secretary of Environment and Natural Resources, which regulates the environmental aspects of mining projects and issued the permits once such statement is approved. The statement was approved in 2017. We also received approval for the permits for land use, authorization and approval for initiation of construction of mining workings and infrastructure and official alignment and number from the Municipality of Satevó, Chihuahua in June and July of 2018. In May 2019, we received approval for Environmental Unique License for the production of 2,500 tpd.
On July 17, 2017, the Mexican Secretary of Environment and Natural Resources approved a mining exploitation project in Satevó, Chihuahua to develop work and activities (site preparation, construction, operation and others) needed to mine and explore the area. The authorized permit period is for 24 years ending July 17, 2041, with the possibility to extend for a similar period. Additionally, on September 4, 2017, we received the permitting to develop, construct and operate a project named Línea Eléctrica 115 KV Los Gatos, which consists of opening an 18-meter wide corridor over 58.0 kilometers. This project affects an area of 105 hectares to support the power lines in the municipalities of San Francisco de Borja and San Javier Satevó, Chihuahua. The authorized permit period is until September 4, 2037. We also received the relevant change of land use permitting to remove forest vegetation and fertile soil in an area of 390.6972 hectares to
prepare the site and construct the infrastructure required for the mining exploitation of the Los Gatos project which expires November 1, 2020, with the option to extend.
We are committed to safety at the CLG. The CLG is built to higher environmental standards than required by Mexican law, with a fully-lined tailings impoundment facility and enclosure of the conveyors and ore storage dome. We also use state-of-the-art rescue capsules to hoist personnel to surface. Our cumulative injury frequency rate at the CLG has consistently been below the annual U.S. MSHA Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate.
Capital and Operating Costs
All costs and economic results are presented in U.S. dollars. Quantities and values are presented using standard metric units unless otherwise specified. No escalation has been applied to capital or operating costs. Financing costs have not been included in the analysis. Capital and operating cost estimates have an accuracy level of ±15%, and, given that the mine is currently in production, capital and operating cost estimates have a contingency of 0%. See Section 21.3 and Section 21.4 of the Los Gatos Technical Report.
The economic analysis contained in the Los Gatos Technical Report is presented on an unlevered, post-tax, present value basis and has an effective date of July 1, 2020. For a discussion of the mineral resource estimates and mineral reserve estimates contained in the Los Gatos Technical Report, see “- The Los Gatos District - Mineral Resource Estimates - CLG, Esther and Amapola Deposits” and “- The Los Gatos District - Mineral Reserve Estimates - CLG.” Technical economic tables and figures presented in this Report require subsequent calculations to derive subtotals, totals, and weighted averages. Such calculations inherently involve a degree of rounding, which are not considered to be material.
Per the Los Gatos Technical Report, LOM sustaining capital cost requirements are estimated to be $267,000 thousand. Initial capital of $315,600 thousand was required to commence operations and construction was completed on time and on budget. Capital cost estimates used MPR-provided database information for mine and surface infrastructure, process plant and infrastructure, tailings storage facility, waste rock storage facility, water management, environmental, reclamation and owner’s cost.
LOM operating costs are based on current operations and are summarized in the table below. The mine operating cost estimate includes all sill development, stope production, and drift-and-fill production and associated indirect costs. Operating costs include all labor, material, mobile and fixed equipment operating, and power consumption costs.
Economic Analysis
The economic analysis contained in the Los Gatos Technical Report is presented on an unlevered, post-tax, present value basis and has an effective date of July 1, 2020. For a discussion of the mineral resource estimates and mineral reserve estimates contained in the Los Gatos Technical Report, see “- The Los Gatos
District - Mineral Resource Estimates - Cerro Los Gatos Mine, Esther and Amapola Deposits” and “- The Los Gatos District - Mineral Reserve Estimates - Cerro Los Gatos Mine.” For a discussion of the assumed capital and operating costs in the Los Gatos Technical Report, see “- The Los Gatos District - Capital and Operating Costs.”
The results of the economic analysis are summarized below:
Economic Analysis Results
Silver equivalent and by-product credits calculated using LOM average prices of $18.99/oz silver, $1,472/oz gold, $0.87/lb lead and $1.09/lb zinc. The economic analysis contained in the Los Gatos Technical Report have an effective date of July 1, 2020 and exclude 655,746 tonnes of mineral reserves that have been mined through June 30, 2020. Subsequent to July 1, 2020, 363,857 tonnes of material have been mined through December 31, 2020, which we believe would not result in a material change to the information contained in the Los Gatos Technical Report.
Exploration, Development, and Production
Concentrate production is currently achieving quality specifications and expected grades. The CLG is expected to produce, on average, 12.2 million payable silver equivalent ounces annually through the existing mine life (or 6.3 million payable silver equivalent ounces annually on a 51.5% basis), with an attractive, low-cost AISC profile. In addition to the goal of achieving the plant’s 2,500 tpd design capacity, we intend to complete a feasibility study, prepared in accordance with the SEC Mining Modernization Rules and NI 43- 101, to expand the CLG production rate to 3,000 tpd. If feasible, we expect the LGJV to complete the expansion within the next three to four years.
We believe there is widespread mineralization potential beyond the CLG, the Esther and Amapola deposits and the 11 other mineralized zones, as more than 85% of the land position has yet to be drilled.
Location of the Cerro Los Gatos District
The current resources are significant, but we believe that additional resource potential remains in the immediate area. Drill testing of other high-priority targets within the Los Gatos District has been relatively limited given our focus on delineation of reserves at, and construction of, the CLG. As a result, the highly prospective Los Gatos District remains underexplored. Drilling at the Esther deposit to date has demonstrated good grade continuity along the system and characteristics similar to that identified during preliminary work at the CLG. Following potentially positive results from infill drilling at the Esther and Amapola deposits, we expect to update the resources and perform a scoping study to determine if these two deposit areas could generate economic production, representing further upside potential for the broader Los Gatos District.
We expect to perform additional definition drilling to expand the Southeast and Northwest zones of the CLG and to perform additional drilling to expand the Esther and Amapola deposits, which remain open to extensions at depth. In addition to the CLG, the Esther deposit and the Amapola deposit, we have identified 11 other mineralized zones defined by high-grade drill intersections in the Los Gatos District. Grade intercepts from such mineralized zones are shown below.
Mineralized Zones Grade Intercepts
The table above does not include Ocelote and Wall-E/Ava zones, as they do not have sufficient drilling.
Subject to financing, our objectives at the Los Gatos District are to, among other things:
•
perform additional in-fill and expansion drilling to further define and expand mineralization at the Esther and Amapola deposits;
•
study the feasibility of expanding production at the CLG from 2,500 tpd to 3,000 tpd;
•
conduct social, environmental and technical work on the property with the objective of completing a scoping study on the Esther and Amapola deposits;
•
expand the exploration drilling program on the Esther deposit, the Amapola deposit and the other 11 mineralized zones within the Los Gatos District; and
•
continue to expand the LGJV’s interest in prospective mineral and surface rights.
Internal Controls
Quality assurance at the CLG and the Los Gatos District involves the use of standard practice procedures for sample collection and includes oversight by experienced geological staff during data collection. Certain quality control measures for sample analysis include in-stream sample submittal of standard reference material, blank material and field duplicate sampling. For data verification, staff members observed drill hole locations and orientations, inspected drill cores and compared to logs and analytical results, observed core intake, visited outcrops and discussed with on-site geologists, including reviewing working maps and cross-sections. Inherent risks in quality control include potential sample contamination, among others.
Item 3.