ITEM 2. PROPERTIES.
Our properties consist of mature, low-risk onshore oil and natural gas properties with long-lived, predictable production profiles located across three diverse producing regions: (i) the Permian Basin region in West Texas and Southeast New Mexico, (ii) the Mid-Continent region in Oklahoma and East Texas and (iii) the Gulf Coast region in Texas.
As of December 31, 2014, our total estimated proved reserves were 33.8 MMBoe, of which 73% were proved developed producing reserves. Our reserves are 52% oil and NGLs as measured by volume as of December 31, 2014. As of December 31, 2014, we operated 87% of our proved reserves and produced from 856 gross (745 net) wells across our operated properties, with an average working interest of 87%. Based on our reserve reports as of December 31, 2014, the estimated decline rate for our existing proved developed producing reserves is 11% per year for 2015 through 2020 and 7% per year thereafter. As of December 31, 2014, 5.1 MMBoe, or 15% of our estimated proved reserves, were proved developed non-producing reserves. Such estimated proved developed non-producing reserves were 57% oil and NGLs and included 296 gross (241 net) recompletion, refracture stimulation, workovers and return to production projects. In addition, as of December 31, 2014, 4.2 MMBoe, or 12% of our estimated proved reserves, were proved undeveloped reserves. Our proved undeveloped reserves were 67% oil and NGLs and included 208 gross (133 net) identified drilling locations.
Our properties are located in fields that generally have been producing for a long period of time, typically more than ten years. Observing the performance of these fields over many years allows for greater understanding of production and reservoir characteristics, making future performance more predictable. The production and corresponding decline rates attributable to properties of this type, in contrast with more recently drilled properties, can be forecasted with a greater degree of accuracy. Similarly, we use words such as “mature” or “low-risk” to describe our properties as having established operating, reservoir and production characteristics.
The development and production of oil and natural gas has a number of uncertainties that pose substantial risk, even for mature properties. However, we view our properties as having less risk because many of the operational risks associated with development and production (for example, drilling a well, whether one will encounter hydrocarbons capable of production in paying quantities and initial production decline rate) tend to occur earlier in the lifecycle of oil and natural gas properties. For a discussion of the risks inherent in oil and natural gas production, please read “Item IA. Risk Factors - Risks Related to Our Business.”
The following table shows the estimated net proved oil and natural gas reserves of our properties as of December 31, 2014, based on the reserve reports prepared by Miller and Lents, Ltd. (“Miller and Lents”), Netherland, Sewell and Associates, Inc. (“Netherland Sewell”) and Ryder Scott Petroleum Consultants (“Ryder Scott”), our independent petroleum engineers, and certain unaudited information regarding such properties.
(1) Our estimated net proved reserves were computed by applying average trailing twelve-month index prices (calculated as the unweighted arithmetic average of the first-day-of-the-month price for each month within the
applicable twelve-month period), held constant throughout the life of the properties. These prices were adjusted by lease for quality, transportation fees, geographical differentials, marketing bonuses or deductions and other factors affecting the price received at the wellhead. The average trailing twelve-month index prices were $94.99/Bbl for NYMEX-WTI oil and $4.35/MMBtu for NYMEX-Henry Hub natural gas for the twelve months ended December 31, 2014. For NGL pricing, a differential is applied to the $94.99/Bbl average trailing twelve-month index price of oil.
Summary of Oil and Natural Gas Properties and Projects
The Permian Basin Region
Approximately 48% of our estimated proved reserves as of December 31, 2014 and 55% of our average daily net production for the year ended December 31, 2014 were located in the Permian Basin region. The Red Lake field accounted for 39% of our average daily net production for the year ended December 31, 2014. Approximately 68% of our estimated net proved reserves in the Permian Basin region are oil and NGLs. The Permian Basin is one of the largest and most prolific oil and natural gas producing basins in the United States, extending over 100,000 square miles in West Texas and Southeast New Mexico, and has produced over 29 billion barrels of oil since its discovery in 1921. The Permian Basin is characterized by oil and natural gas fields with long production histories, multiple producing formations and low rates of production decline. The majority of our current production in the Permian Basin region is primary recovery. However, waterflood operations exist in the same formations in nearby properties operated by others and the potential for similar operations exist in some of our wells that produce from the San Andres formation in our Red Lake area.
We own an 80% average working interest across 667 gross (531 net) wells and operate 94% of our proved reserves in the Permian Basin. Our estimated proved reserves for our Permian Basin properties as of December 31, 2014 totaled 16.3 MMBoe and had a standardized measure of $257.2 million, which represented 58% of the total standardized measure for all of our estimated proved reserves. Our Permian Basin properties have a proved developed producing production decline rate of 13% per year over the next five years and 8% thereafter. Based on our reserve reports dated December 31, 2014, we expect to spend $22.3 million on recompletions, re-stimulations, workovers and facility upgrades to convert our 3.4 MMBoe of Permian Basin proved developed non-producing reserves to proved developed producing reserves and $53.3 million on drilling to convert our 2.0 MMBoe of Permian Basin proved undeveloped reserves to proved developed producing.
The Mid-Continent Region
On October 1, 2014, we completed an acquisition of oil and natural gas properties in the Stroud field located in Lincoln and Creek Counties, Oklahoma for a purchase price of $38.0 million. The October 2014 Acquisition was effective September 1, 2014.
Approximately 42% of our estimated proved reserves as of December 31, 2014 and 35% of our average daily net production for the year ended December 31, 2014 were located in the Mid-Continent region. The Potato Hills field accounted for 18% of our average daily net production for the year ended December 31, 2014. Approximately 39% of our estimated net proved reserves in the Mid-Continent region are oil and NGLs. Our properties in the Mid-Continent Region are characterized by stratigraphic plays with multiple, stacked pay zones and more complex geology than our other operating areas. Similar to our other operating areas, the Mid-Continent region contains a number of fields with long production histories.
We own a 43% average working interest across 579 gross (251 net) wells and operate 77% of our proved reserves in the Mid-Continent region. Our estimated proved reserves for our Mid-Continent region properties as of December 31, 2014 were 14.2 MMBoe and had a standardized measure of $156.6 million, which represented 36% of the total standardized measure for all of our estimated proved reserves. Our Mid-Continent properties have a proved developed producing production decline rate of 8% per year over the next five years and 6% per year thereafter. Based on our reserve reports dated December 31, 2014, we expect to spend $2.9 million on recompletions and workovers to convert our 0.9 MMBoe of Mid-Continent proved developed non-producing reserves to proved developed producing reserves and $31.4 million on drilling to convert our 1.8 MMBoe of Mid-Continent proved undeveloped reserves to proved developed producing.
The Gulf Coast Region
Approximately 10% of our estimated proved reserves as of December 31, 2014 and 10% of our average daily net production for the year ended December 31, 2014 were located in the Gulf Coast region. Approximately 33% of our estimated net proved reserves in the Gulf Coast region are oil and NGLs. Although many assets in the Gulf Coast region exhibit high rates of production decline, our Gulf Coast properties consist primarily of legacy fields and are characterized by relatively stable production profiles and long production histories.
We own a 68% average working interest across 46 gross (31 net) wells and operate 91% of our proved reserves in the Gulf Coast region. Our estimated proved reserves as of December 31, 2014 totaled 3.3 MMBoe and had a standardized measure of $28.5 million as of December 31, 2014, which represented 6% of the total standardized measure for all of our estimated proved reserves. Our Gulf Coast properties have a proved developed producing production decline rate of 11% per year over the next five years and 9% per year thereafter. Based on our reserve reports dated December 31, 2014, we expect to spend $1.2 million on recompletions and workovers to convert our 0.8 MMBoe of Gulf Coast proved developed non-producing reserves to proved developed producing reserves and $6.2 million on drilling to convert our 0.4 MMBoe of Gulf Coast proved undeveloped reserves to proved developed producing.
Oil and Natural Gas Data and Operations
Internal Controls
Our proved reserves are estimated at the well or unit level and compiled for reporting purposes by ServCo’s corporate reservoir engineering staff. ServCo maintains internal evaluations of our reserves in a secure reserve engineering database. The corporate reservoir engineering staff interacts with ServCo’s internal production and geoscience professionals in each of our operating areas and with operating, accounting and marketing employees to obtain the necessary data for the reserves estimation process. Reserves are reviewed internally by our senior management on a periodic basis throughout the year. Our reserve estimates are prepared by Miller and Lents, Netherland Sewell, and Ryder Scott, our independent third-party reserve engineers, at least annually.
Our internal professional staff works closely with Miller and Lents, Netherland Sewell and Ryder Scott to ensure the integrity, accuracy and timeliness of data that is furnished to them for their reserve estimation process. All of the reserve information maintained in our secure reserve engineering database is provided to the external engineers. In addition, we provide Miller and Lents, Netherland Sewell and Ryder Scott other pertinent data, such as seismic information, geologic maps, well logs, production tests, material balance calculations, well performance data, operating procedures and relevant economic criteria. We make all requested information, as well as our pertinent personnel, available to the external engineers as part of their evaluation of our reserves.
Technology Used to Establish Proved Reserves
Under the SEC rules, proved reserves are those quantities of oil and natural gas that by analysis of geoscience and engineering data can be estimated with reasonable certainty to be economically producible from a given date forward from known reservoirs, and under existing economic conditions, operating methods and government regulations. The term “reasonable certainty” implies a high degree of confidence that the quantities of oil and natural gas actually recovered will equal or exceed the estimate. Reasonable certainty can be established using techniques that have been proven effective by actual production from projects in the same reservoir or an analogous reservoir or by other evidence using reliable technology that establishes reasonable certainty. Reliable technology is a grouping of one or more technologies (including computational methods) that have been field tested and have been demonstrated to provide reasonably certain results with consistency and repeatability in the formation being evaluated or in an analogous formation.
To establish reasonable certainty with respect to our estimated proved reserves, Miller and Lents, Netherland Sewell and Ryder Scott employed technologies that have been demonstrated to yield results with consistency and repeatability. The technologies and economic data used in the estimation of our proved reserves include, but are not limited to, electrical logs, radioactivity logs, core analyses, geologic maps and available downhole and production
data, seismic data and well test data. Reserves attributable to producing wells with sufficient production history were estimated using appropriate decline curves or other performance relationships. Reserves attributable to producing wells with limited production history and proved undeveloped locations and additions to proved undeveloped reserves were estimated using performance, log and production data from analogous wells in the surrounding area and geologic data to assess the reservoir continuity. These wells were considered to be analogous based on production performance from the same formation and completion using similar techniques.
Qualifications of Responsible Technical Persons
Internal Engineer. Christopher Butta, Senior Vice President of Engineering and Chief Engineer of our general partner, is the technical person primarily responsible for overseeing the preparation of our reserves estimates. Mr. Butta is also responsible for liaison with and oversight of our third-party reserve engineers. Mr. Butta has 30 years of industry experience. From 1991 through 2005, Mr. Butta worked at Miller and Lents, an independent oil and gas consulting firm. During his 14 years at Miller and Lents, he rose from Consulting Engineer to Senior Vice President. From 1984 to 1991, Mr. Butta worked at ARCO Oil and Gas Company. He holds a Bachelor of Science degree in Petroleum Engineering from University of Missouri-Rolla.
Miller and Lents. Miller and Lents is an independent oil and natural gas consulting firm. No director, officer, or key employee of Miller and Lents has any financial ownership in us, ServCo, Lime Rock Resources or any of their respective affiliates. Miller and Lents’ compensation for the required investigations and preparation of its report is not contingent upon the results obtained and reported, and Miller and Lents has not performed other work for ServCo, Lime Rock Resources or us that would affect its objectivity. The independent engineering analysis presented in the Miller and Lents report was overseen by Ms. Leslie Fallon. Ms. Fallon is an experienced reservoir engineer having been a practicing petroleum engineer since 1983. She has more than 31 years of experience in reserves evaluation. She has a Bachelor of Science degree in Mechanical Engineering from The University of Texas at Austin and is a Registered Professional Engineer in the State of Texas.
Netherland Sewell. Netherland Sewell is an independent oil and natural gas consulting firm. No director, officer, or key employee of Netherland Sewell has any financial ownership in us, ServCo, Lime Rock Resources or any of their respective affiliates. Netherland Sewell’s compensation for the required investigations and preparation of its report is not contingent upon the results obtained and reported, and Netherland Sewell has not performed other work for ServCo, Lime Rock Resources or us that would affect its objectivity. The independent engineering analysis presented in the Netherland Sewell report was overseen by Mr. Lee E. George. Mr. George is an experienced reservoir engineer having been a practicing petroleum engineer since 1981. He has more than 33 years of experience in reserves evaluation. He has a Bachelor of Science degree in Civil Engineering from The University of Texas at Austin and is a Registered Professional Engineer in the State of Texas.
Ryder Scott. Ryder Scott is an independent oil and natural gas consulting firm. No director, officer, or key employee of Ryder Scott has any financial ownership in us, ServCo, Lime Rock Resources or any of their respective affiliates. Ryder Scott’s compensation for the required investigations and preparation of its report is not contingent upon the results obtained and reported, and Ryder Scott has not performed other work for ServCo, Lime Rock Resources or us that would affect its objectivity. The independent engineering analysis presented in the Ryder Scott report was overseen by Mr. William K. Fry. Mr. Fry is an experienced reservoir engineer having been a practicing petroleum engineer since 1975. He has more than 40 years of experience in reserves evaluation. He has a Bachelor of Science degree in Mechanical Engineering from Kansas State University and is a Registered Professional Engineer in the State of Texas.
Estimated Proved Reserves
The following table presents the estimated net proved oil and natural gas reserves attributable to our properties, and the standardized measure amounts associated with such reserves, as of December 31, 2014, prepared by Miller and Lents, Netherland Sewell and Ryder Scott, our independent reserve engineers. All of our reserve estimates have been prepared by independent reserve engineers. The standardized measure amounts shown in the table are not intended to represent the current market value of our estimated oil and natural gas reserves.
(1) Our estimated net proved reserves and related standardized measure were determined using index prices for oil and natural gas, without giving effect to commodity derivative contracts, held constant throughout the life of the properties. The unweighted arithmetic average first-day-of-the-month prices for the prior twelve months were $94.99/Bbl for NYMEX-WTI oil and NGLs and $4.35/MMBtu for NYMEX-Henry Hub natural gas at December 31, 2014. These prices were adjusted by lease for quality, transportation fees, geographical differentials, marketing bonuses or deductions and other factors affecting the price received at the wellhead. For NGL pricing, a differential is applied to the unweighted arithmetic average first-day-of-the-month oil prices for the prior twelve months. As of December 31, 2014, the relevant average realized prices for oil, natural gas and NGLs were $89.23 per Bbl, $4.41 per Mcf and $33.11 per Bbl, respectively.
(2) One Boe is equal to six Mcf of natural gas or one Bbl of oil or NGLs based on a rough energy equivalency. This is a physical correlation and does not reflect a value or price relationship between the commodities.
(3) Standardized measure is calculated in accordance with ASC Topic 932, Extractive Activities - Oil and Gas. Because we are a limited partnership, we are generally not subject to federal or state income taxes and thus make no provision for federal or state income taxes in the calculation of our standardized measure. For a description of our commodity derivative contracts, please read “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources - Commodity Derivative Contracts.”
The data in the table above represents estimates only. Oil and natural gas reserve engineering is inherently a subjective process of estimating underground accumulations of oil and natural gas that cannot be measured exactly. The accuracy of any reserve estimate is a function of the quality of available data and engineering and geological interpretation and judgment. Accordingly, reserve estimates may vary from the quantities of oil and natural gas that are ultimately recovered. For a discussion of risks associated with reserve estimates, please read “Item IA. Risk Factors - Risks Related to Our Business.”
Future prices received for production and costs may vary, perhaps significantly, from the prices and costs assumed for purposes of these estimates. The standardized measure amounts shown above should not be construed as the current market value of our estimated oil and natural gas reserves. The 10% discount factor used to calculate standardized measure, which is required by Financial Accounting Standard Board pronouncements, is not necessarily the most appropriate discount rate. The present value, no matter what discount rate is used, is materially affected by assumptions as to timing of future production, which may prove to be inaccurate.
Development of Proved Undeveloped Reserves
The following table represents a summary of activity within our proved undeveloped reserve category for the year ended December 31, 2014:
(1) Represents the results of the drilling at our Red Lake and Putnam fields during 2014.
(2) Primarily represents natural gas wells that became economic during 2014.
We incurred $19.2 million in capital to convert proved undeveloped reserves to proved developed reserves during the year ended December 31, 2014.
All of our proved undeveloped reserves as of December 31, 2014 are scheduled to be developed on a date that is five years or less from the date the reserves were initially booked as proved undeveloped. We fund our drilling and development programs primarily from our cash flow from operations. Based on our current expectations of our cash flows and drilling and development programs, which includes drilling of proved undeveloped locations, we believe that we can fund the drilling of our current inventory of proved undeveloped locations in the next five years from our cash flow from operations and, if needed, our credit facility. For a more detailed discussion of our liquidity position, please read “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources.”
Production, Revenues and Price History
For a description of our historical production, revenues and average sales prices and unit costs, see “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Results of Operations.”
Drilling and Other Exploratory and Development Activities
Drilling Activities. As of December 31, 2014, we were drilling one well, recompleting one well, testing six new wells, and production testing one well recompletion.
The following table sets forth information with respect to wells drilled and completed by us during the periods indicated. The information should not be considered indicative of future performance, nor should a correlation be assumed between the number of productive wells drilled, quantities of reserves found or economic value.
Other Exploratory and Development Activities. As of December 31, 2014, we did not have any exploratory activities in progress on our properties.
Productive Wells
The following table sets forth information at December 31, 2014 relating to the productive wells in which we owned a working interest as of that date. Productive wells consist of producing wells and wells capable of production, including natural gas wells awaiting pipeline connections to commence deliveries and oil wells awaiting connection to production facilities. Gross wells are the total number of producing wells in which we own an interest, and net wells are approximately the sum of our fractional working interests owned in gross wells.
Acreage
The following table sets forth information as of December 31, 2014 relating to our leasehold acreage. Acreage related to royalty, overriding royalty and other similar interests is excluded from this summary. As of December 31, 2014, substantially all of our leasehold acreage was held by production and no material acreage is set to expire in the near term.
(1) A gross acre is an acre in which we own a working interest. The number of gross acres is the total number of acres in which we own a working interest.
(2) A net acre is deemed to exist when the sum of the fractional ownership working interests in gross acres equals one. The number of net acres is the sum of the fractional working interests owned in gross acres expressed as whole numbers and fractions thereof.
Delivery Commitments
We have no delivery commitments with respect to our production.
Exploitation Activities
Reserve additions due to extensions and discoveries are primarily in the proved undeveloped reserve category. As of December 31, 2014, we have identified 296 gross (241 net) recompletion, refracture stimulation, workovers and return to production projects and 208 gross (133 net) proved undeveloped drilling locations on our properties. Excluding acquisitions, we anticipate capital expenditures of approximately $43.4 million during the twelve months ending December 31, 2014, including drilling 53 gross (32 net) development wells and executing 141 gross (122 net) recompletions, refracture stimulations, workovers and return to production projects.
Operations
General
As of December 31, 2014, we operated 87% of our proved reserves. We design and manage the development, recompletion or workover for all of the wells we operate and supervise operation and maintenance activities. We do not own the drilling rigs or other oil field services equipment used for drilling or maintaining wells on the properties we operate. Independent contractors provide all the equipment and personnel associated with these activities.
Pursuant to our services agreement with ServCo and Lime Rock Management, ServCo and Lime Rock Management provide management, administrative and operational services to our general partner and us to manage and operate our business. ServCo employs production and reservoir engineers, geologists and other specialists, as well as field personnel. We charge the non-operating partners a contractual administrative overhead charge for operating the wells. Some of our non-operated wells are managed by third-party operators who are typically independent oil and natural gas companies.
Oil and Natural Gas Leases
The typical oil and natural gas lease agreement covering our properties provides for the payment of royalties to the mineral owner for all oil and natural gas produced from any wells drilled on the leased premises. The lessor royalties and other leasehold burdens on our properties range from 1% to 54%, and we have a net revenue interest to us ranging from 0% to 88%, or 57% on average for most of our leases.
Substantially all of our leases are held by production and are not subject to continuous drilling obligations.
Title to Properties
Prior to completing an acquisition of producing oil and natural gas properties, we perform title reviews on significant leases, and depending on the materiality of properties, we may obtain a title opinion or review previously obtained title opinions. As a result, title examinations have been obtained on a significant portion of our properties. After an acquisition, we review the assignments from the seller for scrivener’s and other errors and execute and record corrective assignments as necessary.
As is customary in the oil and natural gas industry, we initially conduct only a cursory review of the titles to our properties on which we do not have proved reserves. Prior to the commencement of drilling operations on those properties, we conduct a thorough title examination and perform curative work with respect to significant defects. To the extent title opinions or other investigations reflect title defects on those properties, we are typically responsible for curing any title defects at our expense. We generally will not commence drilling operations on a property until we have cured any material title defects on such property.
We believe that we have satisfactory title to all of our material properties. Although title to these properties is subject to encumbrances in some cases, such as customary interests generally retained in connection with the acquisition of real property, customary royalty interests and contract terms and restrictions, liens under operating agreements, liens related to environmental liabilities associated with historical operations, liens for current taxes and other burdens, easements, restrictions and minor encumbrances customary in the oil and natural gas industry, we believe that none of these liens, restrictions, easements, burdens and encumbrances will materially detract from the value of these properties or from our interest in these properties or materially interfere with our use of these properties in the operation of our business. In addition, we believe that we have obtained sufficient rights-of-way grants and permits from public authorities and private parties for us to operate our business in all material respects as described in this report.
ITEM 3.