ITEM 2. Properties
The Underlying Properties and Royalty Interest
General. The Underlying Properties consist of the working interests owned by Chesapeake in the Colony Granite Wash in Washita County in western Oklahoma arising under leases and farmout agreements related to properties from which the PDP Royalty Interest and the Development Royalty
Interest were conveyed. The AMI consists of approximately 45,400 gross acres (29,300 net acres). There are more than 200 potential drilling locations within the AMI based on assumed spacing of four wells per 640-acre section. As of December 31, 2011, the total reserves estimated to be attributable to the Trust were 42.2 mmboe (46.4% oil and natural gas liquids by volume). This amount includes 17.9 mmboe of proved developed reserves and 24.3 mmboe of proved undeveloped reserves.
Chesapeake currently operates 95% of the Producing Wells and completed Development Wells, certain of which commenced production in 2007. Chesapeake owns an average 52.9% net revenue interest in the wells subject to the Royalty Interests. The reserves attributable to the Royalty Interests include the reserves that are expected to be produced from the Underlying Properties during the 20-year period in which the Trust owns the Royalty Interests as well as the residual interest in the reserves that the Trust will sell on or shortly following the Termination Date.
Overview of the Colony Granite Wash. The Colony Granite Wash is a subset of the greater granite wash plays of the Anadarko Basin. The Colony Granite Wash is located at the eastern end of a series of Des Moines-age granite wash fields that extend along the southern flank of the Anadarko Basin, approximately 60 miles into the Texas Panhandle. These granite wash fields were generally deposited as deep-water turbidites that result in relatively low risk, laterally extensive reservoirs. The productive members of the Colony Granite Wash are encountered between approximately 11,500 and 13,000 feet and lie stratigraphically between the top of the Des Moines formation (or top of Colony Granite Wash ‘A') and the top of the Prue formation (or base of Colony Granite Wash ‘C'). The individual productive members within the Colony Granite Wash may reach 200 feet or more in gross interval thickness and the targeted porosity zones within these individual members are generally 20 to 75 feet thick. The Colony Granite Wash is primarily a natural gas and natural gas condensate reservoir based on reserve volumes. However, oil and natural gas liquids production generates more revenue than natural gas production in the Colony Granite Wash due to prices that have historically been, and currently are, significantly higher for oil and natural gas liquids than for natural gas. Development costs for horizontal wells drilled and completed in the AMI average approximately$10.33 per boe, which is comparable to the development costs for other large-scale resource developments in the Mid-Continent in which Chesapeake operates.
Chesapeake began drilling horizontal wells in the Colony Granite Wash in 2007. As of March 15, 2012, Chesapeake is the largest leaseholder in the Colony Granite Wash, with approximately 61,100 net acres (of which approximately 29,300 net acres are subject to the Royalty Interests), the most active driller in the play, based on rig count, and produces the highest volumes from the Colony Granite Wash. Since 2007, there have been 190 Des Moines horizontal wells drilled in the Colony Granite Wash. Of those 190 wells, Chesapeake has drilled 148 wells and participated in another 37 wells. As of March 15, 2012, there were six rigs drilling horizontal wells in the AMI, with five of those rigs drilling for Chesapeake. While horizontal wells are more expensive than vertical wells, a horizontal well increases the production of hydrocarbons and adds significant recoverable reserves per well. In addition, an operator can achieve better returns on drilling investments with horizontal drilling because the production from one horizontal well is equal to the production from several vertical wells. While Chesapeake is the most active company in this play, other operators in the Colony Granite Wash include publicly-listed companies such as Penn Virginia Corporation, Apache Corporation, QEP Resources, Inc., SM Energy Company and Marathon Oil Corporation and privately-held companies such as Samson Resources, Chaparral Energy, Inc. and Ward Petroleum Corporation.
Natural gas and natural gas liquids produced from the Colony Granite Wash, including the Underlying Properties, are gathered by gathering pipelines owned by Chesapeake Midstream Partners under a contract that expires in approximately 17 years. Natural gas liquids and natural gas are processed at facilities owned by Enogex under a contract that expires in 2017 and then sold to a number of primary purchasers in the area. Oil produced from the Underlying Properties is gathered by gathering pipelines and equipment owned by Chesapeake Midstream Development or transported by trucks owned by third parties and sold to Plains. In the event of a loss of its contracts with Enogex or Plains, Chesapeake believes that the availability of other customers and service providers in the area is sufficient to accommodate such loss. Chesapeake also believes that the capacity of interstate pipelines is sufficient to accommodate the increased production of oil, natural gas liquids and natural gas from the Underlying Properties as currently contemplated.
Well Locations. Chesapeake has over 200 potential drilling locations within the AMI, based on assumed spacing of four wells per 640-acre section, and may drill some of the Development Wells on units that encompass land controlled by third-party operators in order to maximize recovery in the field and also maximize the perforated length of each Development Well drilled.
Drilling Activity. The following table sets forth information with respect to the wells Chesapeake drilled or participated in during the periods indicated that were located in the AMI. The information presented is not necessarily indicative of future performance, and should not be interpreted to present any correlation between the number of productive wells drilled and quantities or economic value of reserves found. Productive wells consist of producing wells and wells capable of producing, including oil wells awaiting connection to production facilities and natural gas wells awaiting pipeline connections to commence deliveries. Gross wells are the total number of producing wells in which Chesapeake has a working interest and net wells are the sum of Chesapeake's fractional working interests owned in gross wells.
(1) Of the gross wells drilled in 2011, 11 wells were Development Wells (approximately 11.5 Development Wells as calculated under the development agreement).
Developed and Undeveloped Acreage. The following table sets forth information regarding developed and undeveloped acreage held by Chesapeake within the AMI as of December 31, 2011. Substantially all of the leases associated with the Underlying Properties are held by production and not subject to expiration so long as production continues in paying quantities.
(1) Gross and net developed acres are acres spaced or assignable to productive wells. The drilling unit for each Colony Granite Wash horizontal well comprises 640 acres. As such, developed acreage may include up to 640 acres assigned to each Colony Granite Wash horizontal well.
Sale and Abandonment of the Underlying Properties
Chesapeake and any transferee will have the right to abandon its interest in any well or property comprising a portion of the Underlying Properties if Chesapeake determines in good faith and in accordance with the Reasonably Prudent Operator Standard that such well or property ceases to produce, or is not capable of producing, oil, natural gas liquids or natural gas in commercially paying quantities. Upon termination of the lease, that portion of the Royalty Interests relating to the abandoned property will be extinguished.
Discussion and Analysis of Results from the Producing Wells
Historical Results. The Colony Granite Wash is a subset of the greater granite wash plays of the Anadarko Basin. The Underlying Properties consist of the working interests owned by Chesapeake in the Colony Granite Wash in Washita County in western Oklahoma arising under leases and farmout agreements related to properties from which the PDP Royalty Interest and the Development Royalty Interest was conveyed. Chesapeake began drilling horizontal wells in the Colony Granite Wash in 2007.
The following table provides revenues and direct operating expenses relating to the Producing Wells for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, derived from the Underlying Properties' statements of revenues and direct operating expenses.
(1) Oil, natural gas liquids and natural gas revenues are net of post-production expenses, including gathering, storage, compression, transportation, processing, treating, dehydrating and non-affiliate marketing expenses.
The following table sets forth the production, average sales prices and production and post-production expenses (including any applicable taxes) for the Producing Wells for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009.
(1) Average sales prices are net of post-production expenses, including gathering, storage, compression, transportation, processing, treating, dehydrating and non-affiliate marketing expenses.
(2) Production expenses include lease operating costs and ad valorem taxes.
(3) Production taxes are generally based upon (i) volume produced and (ii) prices received for production.
Oil, Natural Gas Liquids and Natural Gas Revenues. For the year ended December 31, 2011, oil, natural gas liquids and natural gas revenues were $172.7 million compared to $168.3 million and $123.6 million for the years ended 2010 and 2009, respectively. The $4.4 million increase in revenue from 2010 to 2011 was primarily due to an increase in the average sales price for oil and natural gas liquids from $76.06 to $89.98 per bbl for oil and from $36.28 to $42.09 per bbl for natural gas liquids, offset by a production decrease of 276 mboe and a decrease in the sales price received for natural gas from $3.26 to $2.69 per mcf. The $44.7 million increase in revenue from 2009 to 2010 was primarily due to an increase in the average sales price for oil, natural gas liquids and natural gas from $28.17 to $34.95 per boe and a production increase of 429 mboe.
Production Expenses. For the year ended December 31, 2011, production expenses, excluding ad valorem taxes, were $8.3 million compared to $5.5 million and $3.2 million for the years ended 2010 and 2009, respectively. The year over year increases were primarily due to an increase in the number of producing wells. On a unit-of-production basis, production expenses were $1.82 per boe in 2011 compared to $1.16 and $0.73 per boe in 2010 and 2009, respectively.
Production Taxes. For the year ended December 31, 2011, production taxes were $3.9 million compared to $3.3 million and $2.5 million for the years ended 2010 and 2009, respectively. On a unit-of-production basis, production taxes were $0.86 per boe in 2011 compared to $0.68 and $0.57 per boe in 2010 and 2009, respectively. The $0.6 million increase in production taxes from 2010 to 2011 was primarily due to an increase in the average sales price for oil, natural gas liquids and natural gas from $34.95 to $38.04 per boe, offset by a production decrease of 276 mboe. The $0.8 million increase in production taxes from 2009 to 2010 was primarily due to an increase in the average sales price for oil, natural gas liquids and natural gas from $28.17 to $34.95 per boe and a production increase of 429 mboe.
In general, production taxes are calculated using value-based formulas that produce higher per unit costs when oil, natural gas liquids and natural gas prices are higher.
Properties Related to the Development Royalty Interest
Chesapeake’s average net revenue interest in the oil and natural gas properties underlying the Development Royalty Interest is approximately 52.6%. The Development Royalty Interest entitles the Trust to receive 50% of the proceeds attributable to Chesapeake’s net revenue interest in future production of oil and natural gas resulting from the drilling of the Development Wells, with 25% of such proceeds attributable to the Term Development Royalty and 25% of such proceeds attributable to the Perpetual Development Royalty.
Chesapeake operates all of the completed Development Wells (approximately 20.1 Development Wells as calculated under the development agreement) and expects to operate approximately 92% of the remaining Development Wells through the completion of its drilling obligation. Until such time as Chesapeake has met its commitment to drill the Development Wells, Chesapeake will not drill or complete, and will not permit any other person within its control to drill or complete, any well in the Colony Granite Wash formation or lease acreage included within the AMI for its own account. During the life of the Trust, Chesapeake also will not drill or complete, and will not permit any other person within its control to drill or complete, any well that will have a perforated segment within 600 feet of any perforated interval of any Development Well or Producing Well.
Prior to fulfilling its drilling obligation to the Trust, Chesapeake may, in its sole discretion, cause the Trust to exchange leased acreage in the AMI for other leased acreage in the Development Area. If additional acreage in the Development Area becomes subject to the Royalty Interests, then the AMI will automatically expand to include such acreage. In addition, if Chesapeake acquires any additional leases or interests in the AMI, Chesapeake may make such additional leases or interests subject to the Royalty Interests with respect to any Development Wells subsequently drilled on such acreage. However, the aggregate acreage attributable to the exchanged leases or additional leases or acreage may not exceed five percent of the acreage initially subject to the Royalty Interests and the reserve profile of the newly burdened acreage must be consistent with the reserve profile of the acreage released by the Trust.
Oil, Natural Gas Liquids and Natural Gas Reserves
Proved reserve quantities attributable to the Royalty Interests are calculated by multiplying the gross reserves for each property attributable to Chesapeake's interest by the net revenue interest assigned to the Trust in each property. The reserves related to the Underlying Properties include all proved reserves expected to be economically produced during the life of the properties. The reserves attributable to the Trust's interests include only the reserves attributable to the Underlying Properties that are expected to be produced within the 20-year period prior to the Termination Date as well as the residual 50% interest in the Royalty Interests that the Trust will own on the Termination Date and subsequently sell.
The pre-tax present value of estimated future net revenue is intended to represent the current market value of the estimated oil and natural gas reserves owned by the Trust. All of the Trust’s estimated oil and natural gas reserves are located within the U.S.
The table below sets forth information as of December 31, 2011 with respect to the estimated proved reserves of the Underlying Properties and the Royalty Interests, and the present value (discounted at an annual rate of 10%) of the associated estimated future net revenue of such reserves at such date (“PV-10”). Because the Trust will not bear federal income tax expense, PV-10 and the standardized measure of estimated future net revenue of the Royalty Interests is the same. The present value of estimated future net revenue is not intended to represent the current market value of the estimated oil and natural gas reserves attributable to the Royalty Interests. The reserve reports were prepared by Ryder Scott Company, L.P. (“Ryder Scott”) in accordance with the criteria established by the SEC.
(1) The proved reserves were determined using a 12-month unweighted arithmetic average of the first-day-of-the-month prices for oil, natural gas liquids and natural gas for the period from January 1, 2011 through December 1, 2011, without giving effect to hedging arrangements, and were held constant for the life of the properties. The prices used in the reserve reports, as well as Chesapeake's internal reports, yield weighted average prices at the wellhead, which are based on first-day-of-the-month reference prices and adjusted for transportation and regional price differentials. For the Royalty Interests, costs of marketing services provided by Chesapeake affiliates, which will not be charged to the Trust. The reference prices and the equivalent weighted average wellhead prices are presented in the table below.
(2) PV-10 is the present value of estimated future net revenue to be generated from the production of proved reserves, discounted using an annual discount rate of 10% (as required by the SEC), calculated without deducting future income taxes. PV-10 is a non-GAAP financial measure and generally differs from standardized measure of discounted net cash flows, or Standardized Measure, the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure, because it does not include the effects of income taxes on future net revenues. Because the Trust will not bear federal income tax expense, the PV-10 and Standardized Measure attributable to the Royalty Interests are the same. Neither PV-10 nor Standardized Measure represents an estimate of the fair market value of the Underlying Properties or the Royalty Interests. We and others in our industry use PV-10 as a measure to compare the relative size and value of proved reserves held by companies without regard to the specific tax characteristics of such entities. PV-10 for the Royalty Interests has been calculated without deduction for production and development costs, as the Trust will not bear those costs.
As of December 31, 2011, the reserve estimates for the Royalty Interests included 24,300 mboe of reserves classified as proved undeveloped (“PUD”), compared to 25,709 mboe as of June 30, 2011. This decrease is primarily the result of the conversion of undeveloped reserves to developed reserves as Chesapeake completed five Producing Wells that had been drilled and were awaiting completion as of June 30, 2011 and drilled and completed approximately 11.5 Development Wells (as calculated under the development agreement).
As of December 31, 2011, there were no PUDs that had remained undeveloped for five years or more. Chesapeake invested approximately $116.4 million in the Underlying Properties in 2011 to convert 4,139 mboe of PUDs to proved developed reserves. Between July 1, 2011, the effective date of the Royalty Interests, and December 31, 2011, Chesapeake invested approximately $70.2 million of its total 2011 investment in the Underlying Properties to convert 2,572 mboe of the total 2011 converted PUDs to proved developed reserves. Chesapeake estimates that it will invest approximately $220.5 million for PUD conversion on the Underlying Properties in 2012.
The $518.7 million present value of the future net revenue attributable to the estimated proved undeveloped reserves of the Royalty Interests has been calculated assuming that Chesapeake will expend approximately $491.7 million to develop these reserves: $220.5 million in 2012, $125.7 million in 2013, $88.4 million in 2014 and $57.1 million in 2015 and beyond, although the amount and timing of these expenditures will depend on a number of factors, including actual drilling results, service costs, commodity prices and the availability of capital. Chesapeake’s developmental drilling schedule for the remaining Development Wells is subject to revision and reprioritization throughout the year resulting from unknowable factors such as rig availability, title issues or delays, and Chesapeake’s net revenue interest in each Development Well when drilled and completed. The proved reserves as of December 31, 2011 include only PUD locations to immediate offsets to producing wells.
The annual net decline rate on producing properties is projected to be 33% from 2012 to 2013, 22% from 2013 to 2014, 17% from 2014 to 2015, 14% from 2015 to 2016 and 12% from 2016 to 2017. As of December 31, 2011, of the total proved reserves, 23,668 mboe and 17,844 mboe of proved developed reserves attributable to the Underlying Properties and the Royalty Interests, respectively, were classified as proved developed producing.
Chesapeake’s ownership interest used in calculating proved reserves and the associated estimated future net revenue was determined after giving effect to the assumed maximum participation by other parties to Chesapeake’s farmout and participation agreements. The prices used in calculating the estimated future net revenue attributable to proved reserves do not reflect market prices for oil and natural gas production sold subsequent to December 31, 2011. The estimated proved reserves may not be produced and sold at the assumed prices.
The Trust’s estimated proved reserves and the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows of the proved reserves at December 31, 2011, and the changes in quantities and standardized measure of such reserves since July 1, 2011, the effective date of the conveyances of the Royalty Interests, are shown in Note 8 of the notes to the financial statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report. No estimates of proved reserves comparable to those included herein have been included in reports to any federal agency other than the SEC.
There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of proved reserves and in projecting future rates of production and timing of development expenditures, including many factors beyond our control. The reserve data represent only estimates. Reserve engineering is a subjective process of estimating underground accumulations of oil, natural gas liquids and natural gas that cannot be measured in an exact way, and the accuracy of any reserve estimate is a function of the quality of available data and of engineering and geological interpretation and judgment. As a result, estimates made by different engineers often vary. In addition, results of drilling, testing and production subsequent to the date of an estimate may justify revision of such estimates, and such revisions may be material. Accordingly, reserve estimates are often different from the actual quantities of oil, natural gas liquids and natural gas that are ultimately recovered. Furthermore, the estimated future net revenue from proved reserves and the associated present value are based upon certain assumptions, including prices, future production levels and costs that may not prove correct. Future prices and costs may be materially higher or lower than the prices and costs as of the date of any estimate.
The Reserve Reports for the Underlying Properties and the Royalty Interests
All of the oil and natural gas reserves in this Annual Report were estimated by Ryder Scott. The process to review and estimate the reserves began with Chesapeake’s reservoir engineering department collecting and verifying all pertinent data, including but not limited to well test data, production data, historical pricing, cost information, property ownership interests, reservoir data, and geosciences data. This data was reviewed by various levels of Chesapeake management for accuracy before consultation with Ryder Scott. Ryder Scott was consulted with regularity during the reserve estimation process to review properties, assumptions, and any new data available. Internal reserve estimates and methodologies were compared to Ryder Scott's estimates and methodologies to test the reserve estimates and conclusions before the reserve estimates were included in this Annual Report. Additionally, Chesapeake's senior management reviewed and approved the reserve reports contained herein.
Internal Controls. Chesapeake's Vice President of Corporate Reserves is the technical person primarily responsible for overseeing the preparation of Chesapeake's and the Trust’s reserve estimates, is the primary contact with Ryder Scott and receives the reserve reports from Ryder Scott. He has a Bachelor of Science degree in Petroleum Engineering with 36 years of practical industry experience, including 33 years of estimating and evaluating reserve information. In addition, the Vice President of Corporate Reserves is a certified professional engineer in the state of Oklahoma and a member of the Society of Petroleum Engineers.
Chesapeake's Reservoir Engineering Department continually monitors asset performance and makes reserves estimate adjustments, as necessary, to ensure the most current reservoir information is reflected in reserves estimates. Reserve information includes production histories as well as other geologic, economic, ownership and engineering data. The department currently has a total of 116 full-time employees, consisting of 69 degreed engineers (ten serving in management capacities), 45 engineering technicians with a minimum of a four-year degree in mathematics, economics, finance or other business or science field and two administrative persons. Twelve of Chesapeake’s engineers are registered professional engineers with various state board certifications. The department collectively has approximately 1,700 years of industry experience. Chesapeake maintains a continuous education program for engineers and technicians on new technologies and industry advancements and also offers refresher training on basic skill sets.
We maintain internal controls such as the following to ensure the reliability of reserves estimations:
•
Chesapeake follows comprehensive SEC-compliant internal policies to determine and report proved reserves. Reserves estimates are made by experienced reservoir engineers or under their direct supervision.
•
The Reservoir Engineering Department reviews all of Chesapeake’s and the Trust’s reported proved reserves at the close of each quarter.
•
Each quarter, Reservoir Engineering Department managers, the Vice President of Corporate Reserves, the Senior Vice President of Production and the Chief Operating Officer review all significant reserves changes and all new proved undeveloped reserves additions.
•
The Reservoir Engineering Department reports independently of any of our operating divisions.
Technologies. The reserve reports were prepared using decline curve analysis to determine the reserves of individual Producing Wells. After estimating the reserves of each proved developed well, it was determined that a reasonable level of certainty exists with respect to the reserves that can be expected from close offset undeveloped wells in the field. The continuity of the play across the AMI area was established by reviewing electric well logs from wells, geologically mapping the analogous reservoir and reviewing extensive production data from horizontal wells within the larger Colony Granite Wash area. The proved undeveloped locations within the AMI are generally all offsets to the horizontal wells drilled and producing as of December 31, 2011.
Ryder Scott. Ryder Scott, the independent petroleum engineering consultant, estimated all of the proved reserve information in this Annual Report, in accordance with the definitions and regulations of the SEC and, with the exception of the exclusion of future income taxes, conform to the FASB Accounting Standards Codification Topic 932, Extractive Activities-Oil and Gas. For the purposes of the reserve reports, Ryder Scott used technical and economic data including, but not limited to, well test data, production data, historical price and cost information, and property ownership interests. The reserves in the reserve reports have been estimated using deterministic methods. Ryder Scott used standard engineering and geosciences methods, or a combination of methods, such as performance analysis and analogy, that they considered to be appropriate and necessary to categorize and estimate reserves in accordance with SEC definitions and regulations. A substantial portion of these reserves are for undeveloped locations and producing wells that lack sufficient production history upon which performance-related estimates of reserves can be based. Therefore, these reserves are based on estimates of reservoir volumes and recovery efficiencies along with analogy to properties with similar geologic and reservoir characteristics. Ryder Scott's expertise is in petroleum engineering, geoscience, and petrophysical interpretation, not legal or accounting matters; they are not accountants, attorneys, or landmen. As in all aspects of oil and gas evaluation, there are uncertainties inherent in the interpretation of engineering and geoscience data; therefore, the conclusions from Ryder Scott necessarily represent only informed professional judgment. The titles to the properties have not been examined by Ryder Scott, nor has the actual degree or type of interest owned been independently confirmed. The data used in Ryder Scott's estimates were obtained from Chesapeake and the non-confidential files of Ryder Scott and were accepted as accurate. Supporting geoscience, field performance, and work data are on file in their office. The qualifications of the technical person at Ryder Scott primarily responsible for overseeing the estimate of the reserves include: 30 years of practical experience in the estimation and evaluation of petroleum reserves; a registered professional engineer in the state of Texas; and a Bachelor of Science degree in Electrical Engineering. These qualifications meet or exceed the Society of Petroleum Engineers standard requirements to be a professionally qualified Reserve Estimator and Auditor. Ryder Scott are independent petroleum engineers, geologists, geophysicists, and petrophysicists; Ryder Scott does not own an interest in these properties and are not employed on a contingent basis.
ITEM 3.