Item 2. - Properties
Our Oakdale facility is purpose-built to exploit the reserve profile in place and produce high-quality raw frac sand. Unlike some of our competitors, our mine, processing plants and primary rail loading facilities are in one location, which limits the need for us to truck sand on public roads between the mine and the production facility or between wet and dry processing facilities. Our on-site transportation assets include approximately nine miles of rail track in a triple-loop configuration and four railcar loading facilities that are connected to a Class I rail line owned by Canadian Pacific, which enables us to simultaneously accommodate multiple unit trains and significantly increases our efficiency in meeting our customers’ raw frac sand transportation needs. We ship a substantial portion of our sand volumes (approximately 76% in 2017) in unit train shipments through railcars that either we lease or our customers own or lease and deliver to our facility. We believe that we are one of the few raw frac sand producers with a facility custom-designed for the specific purpose of delivering raw frac sand to all of the major U.S. oil and natural gas producing basins by an on-site rail facility that can simultaneously accommodate multiple unit trains. Our ability to handle multiple railcar sets allows for the efficient transition of locomotives from empty inbound trains to fully loaded outbound trains at our facility.
We believe our customized on-site logistical configuration yields lower overall operating and transportation costs compared to manifest train or single-unit train facilities as a result of our higher railcar utilization, more efficient use of locomotive power and more predictable movement of product between mine and destination. Unit train operations such as ours can double or triple the average number of loads that a railcar carries per year, thus reducing the number of railcars needed to support our operations and limiting our exposure to unutilized railcars and the corresponding storage and lease expense. We believe that our Oakdale facility’s connection to the Canadian Pacific rail network, combined with our unit train logistics capabilities, provides us with enhanced flexibility to serve customers located in shale plays throughout North America. In addition, we have invested in a transloading facility on the Union Pacific rail network in Byron Township, Wisconsin, approximately 3.5 miles from our Oakdale facility. This facility is operational and provides us with the ability to ship unit trains directly on the Union Pacific network to locations in the major operating basins in the Western and Southwestern United States, which should facilitate more competitive pricing among our rail carriers. With the addition of this transload facility, we believe we are the only raw frac sand mine in Wisconsin with dual served railroad shipment capabilities on the Canadian Pacific and Union Pacific, which should provide us more competitive logistics options to the market relative to other Wisconsin-based sand mining and production facilities.
In addition to the Oakdale facility, our Hixton site consists of approximately 959 acres in Jackson County, Wisconsin. The Hixton site is fully permitted to initiate operations and is available for future development. As of December 31, 2017, our Hixton site had approximately 100 million tons of proven recoverable sand reserves. This location is located on a Class I rail line, the Canadian National.
The following tables provide key characteristics of our Oakdale facility and Hixton site:
Our Oakdale Facility (as of December 31, 2017)
Our Hixton Site (as of December 31, 2017)
We have entered into two long-term surface mining leases for properties located in the Permian Basin in Texas that are available for future development. The first site consists of 1772 acres in Winkler County, Texas. This location is adjacent to the Texas & New Mexico Railway (TXN) short line with direct access to State Highway 18. The second site consists of 2,447 acres in Crane County, Texas. This location has direct access to Interstate Highway 20 and has been awarded a Certificate of Inclusion into the TCP for the dunes sagebrush lizard. The TCP is designed to protect dunes sagebrush lizard habitat while facilitating continued and uninterrupted economic activity in the Permian Basin. The Permian Basin sites have been acquired for a combined cost of less than $5,000,000 and have low associated royalty payments. We estimate that the sites collectively have several hundred million tons of frac sand reserves.
Our Reserves
We believe that our strategically located Oakdale and Hixton sites provide us with a large and high-quality mineral reserves base. Mineral resources and reserves are typically classified by confidence (reliability) levels based on the level of exploration, consistency and assurance of geologic knowledge of the deposit. This classification system considers different levels of geoscientific knowledge and varying degrees of technical and economic evaluation. Mineral reserves are derived from in situ resources through application of modifying factors, such as mining, analytical, economic, marketing, legal, environmental, social and governmental factors, relative to mining methods, processing techniques, economics and markets. In estimating our reserves, John T. Boyd does not classify a resource as a reserve unless that resource can be demonstrated to have reasonable certainty to be recovered economically in accordance with the modifying factors listed above. “Reserves” are defined by SEC Industry Guide 7 as that part of a mineral deposit that could be economically and legally extracted or produced at the time of the reserve determination. Industry Guide 7 defines “proven (measured) reserves” as reserves for which (a) quantity is computed from dimensions revealed in outcrops, trenches, workings or drill holes; grade and/or quality are computed from the results of detailed sampling and (b) the sites for inspection, sampling and measurement are spaced so closely and the geologic character is so well defined that size, shape, depth and mineral content of reserves are well-established.
In estimating our reserves, as listed in the table above, John T. Boyd categorizes our reserves as proven recoverable in accordance with these SEC definitions. The quantity and nature of the sand reserves at our Oakdale site are estimated by third-party geologists and mining engineers, and we internally track the depletion rate on an interim basis. Before acquiring new reserves, we perform surveying, drill core analysis and other tests to confirm the quantity and quality of the acquired reserves.
Our Oakdale reserves are located on 1,196 contiguous acres in Monroe County, Wisconsin. We own our Monroe County acreage in fee and acquired surface and mineral rights on all of such acreage from multiple landowners in separate transactions. Our mineral rights are subject to an aggregate non-participating royalty interest of $0.50 per ton sold of coarser than 70 mesh, which we believe is significantly lower than many of our competitors.
In addition to the Oakdale facility, we own the Hixton site that is on approximately 959 acres in Jackson County, Wisconsin. The Hixton site is fully permitted and available for future development. We own our Jackson County acreage in fee and acquired surface and mineral rights on all of such acreage from multiple landowners in separate transactions. Our mineral rights are subject to an aggregate non-participating royalty interest of $0.50 per ton sold of coarser than 70 mesh, which we believe is significantly lower than many of our competitors.
To opine as to the economic viability of our reserves, John T. Boyd reviewed our financial cost and revenue per ton data at the time of the reserve determination. Based on their review of our cost structure and their extensive experience with similar operations, John T. Boyd concluded that it is reasonable to assume that we will operate under a similar cost structure over the remaining life of our reserves. John T. Boyd further assumed that if our revenue per ton remained relatively constant over the life of the reserves, our current operating margins are sufficient to expect continued profitability throughout the life of our reserves.
The cutoff grade used by John T. Boyd in estimating our reserves considers sand that falls between 20 and 140 mesh sizes as proven recoverable reserves, meaning that sands within this range are included in John T. Boyd’s estimate of our proven recoverable. In addition, John T. Boyd’s estimate of our reserves adjusts for mining losses of 10% and processing losses through the wet plant and dry plants, for a total yield of the in-place sand resource. Our processing losses are primarily due to minus 140 mesh sand being removed at the wet processing plant, plus 20 mesh sand being removed in the dry plants (including moisture) through normal attrition and all other material discarded as waste (including clay and other contaminants).
During wet plant processing operations, the wet plant process water leaving the wet plant is pumped into a settling basin for the ultra-fine (minus 140 mesh) sand to settle. The settling basin allows the wet plant process water to flow back to the fresh water pump pond via a canal system to its original starting point. The fresh water pump pond, wet plant, settling basin and canal system complete an enclosed circuit for continuous recycled wet plant process water.
Wet plant process tailings are temporarily piled and/or stored. Tailings are systematically used throughout the mining operation for various purposes such as reclamation, roads and soil stabilization. Dry plant process material discharged during the drying process is temporarily piled and/or stored for various purposes such as reclamation and soil stabilization, and it is commonly recycled through the wet plant process.
Our Oakdale reserves are a mineral resource deposited over millions of years. Approximately 500 million years ago, quartz rich Cambrian sands were deposited in the upper Midwest region of the United States. During the Quaternary era, glaciation and erosion caused by the melting of glaciers removed millions of years of bedrock, to expose the Cambrian sandstone deposit, near the surface. Our deposits are located in an ancient marine setting, which is the reason our deposit is well sorted and rounded. The high quartz content of the Cambrian sands and the monocrystalline structure of our deposits are responsible for the extremely high crush strength relative to other types of sand. The deposit found in our open-pit Oakdale mine and our Hixton site is a Cambrian quartz sandstone deposit that produces high-quality Northern White raw frac sand with a silica content of 99%.
Although crush strength is one of a number of characteristics that define the quality of raw frac sand, it is a key characteristic for our customers and other purchasers of raw frac sand in determining whether the product will be suitable for its desired application. For example, raw frac sand with exceptionally high crush strength is suitable for use in high pressure downhole conditions that would otherwise require the use of more expensive resin-coated or ceramic proppants.
The sand deposit at our formation does not require crushing or extensive processing to eliminate clays or other contaminants, enabling us to cost-effectively produce high-quality raw frac sand meeting API specifications. In addition, the sand deposit is present to a depth of approximately 200 feet, with a generally shallow overburden of less than 10 feet, on average, over the entire property. The shallow depth of the sand deposits allows us to conduct surface mining rather than underground mining, which lowers our production costs and decreases safety risks as compared to underground mining. All of our surface mining is currently conducted utilizing excavators and trucks to deliver sand to the wet plant. We have considered utilizing other mining methods, such as a dredge operation, and may continue evaluating other mining methods from time to time in the future.
Our Oakdale Facility
We commenced operations at our Oakdale facility in July 2012. Prior to our commencement of operations, we performed surveying, drill core analysis and other tests to confirm the quantity and quality of the reserves. The process was performed with the assistance of John T. Boyd. Before acquiring new acreage in the future, including material additional acreage adjacent to our Oakdale site, we will perform similar procedures.
Our Oakdale wet plant facilities are comprised of steel structures and rely primarily on industrial grade aggregate processing equipment. Our second wet plant facility was brought online in October 2017 and will be fully operational as of the second quarter of 2018. Each of our Oakdale dry plants contain one 200 ton per hour propane- or natural gas-fired fluid bed dryer. Our first and third dry plants have six high-capacity mineral separators, and our second dry plant has four high-capacity mineral separators. Each dryer is capable of producing approximately 1.1 million tons per year of dry Northern White raw frac sand in varying gradations, including 20/40, 30/50, 40/70 and 100 mesh. Our first three dry plants are enclosed in separate buildings. Our first wet plant is in process of being retrofitted to increase its wet sand production capacity and to extend the wet processing season prior to winter shutdown.
Our fourth and fifth dry plant facilities will be fully operational as of the second quarter 2018. These facilities will have twelve high-capacity mineral separators and two 200 ton per hour propane-or natural gas-fired fluid bed dryers, bringing our total nameplate drying capacity in Oakdale, WI to approximately 5.5 million tons. As part of our expansion, our second wet plant and fourth and fifth dry plants and supporting infrastructure will be located inside a single insulated metal building designed to increase efficiencies and minimize weather-related effects during the winter months. As a result of this enclosure, we do not anticipate shutting down our second wet plant for the winter season.
For the year ended December 31, 2017, we sold approximately 2.4 million tons of raw frac sand. A substantial portion of our sales volumes have historically, and are currently, sold FCA our Oakdale facility. During 2017, we experienced an increase in FCA basin sales. Generally, logistics costs can comprise 60-80% of the delivered cost of Northern White raw frac sand, depending on the basin into which the product is delivered.
The surface excavation operations at our Oakdale site are conducted by our employees with leased or purchased heavy equipment. The mining technique at our Oakdale site is open-pit excavation of our silica deposits. The excavation process involves clearing and grubbing vegetation and trees overlying the proposed mining area. The initial shallow overburden is removed and utilized to construct perimeter berms around the pit and property boundary. No underground mines are operated at our Oakdale site. In certain situations where the sand-bearing geological formation is tightly cemented, we utilize blasting to make the sand easier to excavate.
A track excavator and articulated trucks are utilized for excavating the sand at several different elevation levels of the active pit. The pit is dry mined, and the water elevation is maintained below working level through a dewatering and pumping process. The mined material is loaded and hauled from different areas of the pit and different elevations within the pit to the primary loading facility at our mine’s on-site wet processing facility.
Once processed and dried, sand from our Oakdale facility is stored in one of ten on-site silos with a combined storage capacity of 27,000 tons. In addition to the 27,000 tons of silo capacity, we own approximately nine miles of on-site rail track (in a triple-loop configuration) that is connected to the Canadian Pacific rail network and that is used to stage and store empty or recently loaded customer railcars. Our strategic location adjacent to a Canadian Pacific mainline provides our customers with the ability to transport Northern White raw frac sand from our Oakdale facility to all major unconventional oil and natural gas basins currently producing in the United States. For additional information regarding our transportation logistics and infrastructure, please read “-Transportation Logistics and Infrastructure.”
Our Oakdale facility undergoes regular maintenance to minimize unscheduled downtime and to ensure that the quality of our raw frac sand meets applicable API and ISO standards and our customers’ specifications. In addition, we make capital investments in our facility as required to support customer demand and our internal performance goals. Except for planned and unplanned downtime, our dry plants operate year-round.
As of December 31, 2017, we have utilized approximately 221 acres for facilities and mining operations, or only 19% of Oakdale location.
Transportation Logistics and Infrastructure
Historically, all of our product has been shipped by rail from our Oakdale facility. Our rail infrastructure now consists of an approximately nine-mile on-site rail spur, in a triple-loop configuration, that connects our Oakdale facility to a Canadian Pacific mainline. The length of this rail spur and the capacity of the associated product storage silos allow us to accommodate a large number of railcars. This configuration also enables us to accommodate multiple unit trains simultaneously, which significantly increases our efficiency in meeting our customers’ raw frac sand transportation needs. Unit trains, typically 100 railcars in length or longer, are dedicated trains chartered for a single delivery destination. Generally, unit trains receive priority scheduling and do not switch cars at various intermediate junctions, which results in a more cost-effective and efficient method of shipping than the standard method of rail shipment. While many of our competitors may be able to handle a single unit train, we believe that our Oakdale facility is one of the few raw frac sand facilities in the industry that is able to simultaneously accommodate multiple unit trains in its rail yard.
The ability to handle multiple railcar sets is particularly important in order to allow for the efficient transition of the locomotive from empty inbound trains to fully-loaded outbound trains at the originating mine. For example, in a “hook-and-haul” operation, inbound locomotive power arriving at the mine unhooks from an empty train and hooks up to a fully loaded unit car train waiting at the rail yard with a turnaround time of as little as two hours. We believe that this type of operation typically yields lower operating and transportation costs compared to manifest train traffic movements as a result of higher railcar utilization, more efficient use of locomotive power and more predictable movement of product between mine and destination. We believe that this is a key differentiator as currently railcars are in high demand in the industry and hook-and-haul operations can increase the average number of turns per year of a railcar from seven to nine turns per year for manifest train shipments to over 20 turns per year for unit train shipments, while also reducing demand variability for locomotive services. We believe that we are one of the few raw frac sand producers with a facility custom-designed for the specific purpose of delivering raw frac sand to all of the major U.S. oil and natural gas producing basins by an on-site rail facility that can simultaneously accommodate multiple unit trains, a capability that requires sufficient acreage, loading facilities and rail spurs.
In addition, we have expanded our transload facility on a rail line owned by the Union Pacific in Byron Township, Wisconsin, approximately 3.5 miles from the Oakdale facility to be fully unit train capable. This transload facility, which includes approximately 5 miles of rail spur in a double-loop configuration, allows us to ship sand directly to our customers on more than one rail carrier. This facility has been operational since June 2016 and we shipped our first unit train from this facility in December 2017. We believe this facility should provide increased delivery options for our customers, greater competition among our rail carriers and potentially lower freight costs. With the addition of this transload facility, we believe we are the only mine in Wisconsin with dual served railroad shipment capabilities on the Canadian Pacific and Union Pacific railroads, which should provide us more competitive logistics options to the market relative to other Wisconsin-based sand mining and production facilities.
The logistics capabilities of raw frac sand producers are important to customers, who focus on both the reliability and flexibility of product delivery. Because our customers generally find it impractical to store raw frac sand in large quantities near their job sites, they seek to arrange for product to be delivered where and as needed, which requires predictable and efficient loading and shipping of product. The integrated nature of our logistics operations, our approximate nine-mile on-site rail spur and our ability to ship using unit trains enable us to handle railcars for multiple customers simultaneously, which:
•
minimizes the time required to successfully load shipments, even at times of peak activity;
•
eliminates the need to truck sand on public roads between the mine and the production facility or between wet and dry processing facilities; and
•
minimizes transloading at our Oakdale site, lowers product movement costs and minimizes the reduction in sand quality due to handling.
In addition, with the transload facility now operational at Byron Township, our Oakdale facility is now dual served and capable of shipping sand directly on the Canadian Pacific and Union Pacific rail lines. Together, these advantages provide our customers with a reliable and efficient delivery method from our facility to each of the major U.S. oil and natural gas producing basins, and allow us to take advantage of the increasing demand for such a delivery method.
Item 3.