Item 2. Properties
Below are our primary offices and facilities at December 31, 2020. We believe our properties are in good operating condition, and are well maintained. Pursuant to separate financing agreements, substantially all of our material U.S., European and Australian properties are pledged or encumbered to support or otherwise provide security for our indebtedness.
Our primary office locations consisted of the following:
Mining Operations
Tronox owns and operates five mining-mineral processing supply chains, each including one or more heavy mineral sand ("HMS") mines producing heavy mineral concentrate ("HMC") to feed a dedicated mineral separation plant. Two operations are in South Africa: Namakwa Sands, Western Cape, and KZN Sands, KwaZulu-Natal. Three operations are in Australia: our Northern Operations and Southern Operations are in the coastal plain of Western Australia; and our Eastern Operations are in the New South Wales portion of the Murray Basin, Australia.
In South Africa, the Namakwa Sands operations include two open-pit mines, each with a dedicated primary concentration plant, and a secondary concentration plant at Brand-se-Baai, a mineral separation (“dry”) plant at Koekenaap, and a two-furnace smelter at Saldanha, Western Cape, South Africa. The KZN operations have an open pit mine at Fairbreeze with a primary concentration plant, a mineral separation plant at Empangeni alongside a two-furnace smelter complex, and export facilities at the port of Richards Bay.
The Western Australia operations are in two supply chains: the North Perth Basin, consisting of the Cooljarloo dredge mine and floating heavy mineral concentration plant, and the Chandala metallurgical complex near Muchea, consisting of a mineral separation plant and a synthetic rutile ("SR") plant; and the South Perth Basin, consisting of a dry open pit mine at Wonnerup with primary concentration of HMC and a mineral separation plant at Bunbury.
The Eastern Operations in the Murray Basin of Australia include two operating dredge mines at Ginkgo and Snapper and a mineral separation plant at Broken Hill, NSW.
Pigment Operations
Our pigment facilities consist of the physical assets necessary and appropriate to produce, distribute and supply our TiO2 products and consist mainly of manufacturing and distribution facilities. The following table lists our TiO2 production facilities and capacity (in metric tonnes per year), by location:
We believe we have maintained a level of adequate provision for the current and near-term use of our plants and equipment, the costs of which are recorded as Property, plant and equipment on our consolidated balance sheets; see Note 11 of our notes to our consolidated financial statements. We utilize local power sources at each of our sites; see “Risk Factors-South Africa, where we have large mining assets and derive a significant portion of our revenue and profit, poses distinct operational risks which could affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.”
Mineral Properties
As of December 31, 2020, we owned mining rights to ore reserves described herein at five heavy mineral sands operations in South Africa and Australia, where we mine heavy mineral sands to supply titanium mineral feedstock to our TiO2 manufacturing business and co-products for external sale.
Reporting of Ore Reserves
SEC reporting companies are required to report ore reserves under SEC Industry Guide 7 of the Securities Act of 1933, “Description of Property by Issuers Engaged or To Be Engaged in Significant Mining Operations”. Industry Guide 7 (“IG7”) requires that sufficient technical and economic studies have been completed to reasonably assure economic extraction of the declared reserves, based on the parameters and assumptions current to the end of the reporting period.
Tronox operations personnel have for years followed SAMREC (South African Code for the Reporting of Exploration Results, Mineral Resources and Mineral Reserves) and JORC (Australasian Code for Reporting of Exploration Results, Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves) guidelines to internally update our year-end mineral reserve and mineral resource estimates.
Our mineral reserve estimates are based on geological resource models modified by various mining and processing factors and assessed in a techno-economic model for commercial viability. This constitutes a Life-of-Mine-Plan (LOMP) for each operation. These LOMP’s have been developed by teams of Tronox professionals with diverse, complementary skills and an intimate knowledge of their respective operations. A LOMP takes into account the mineral reserves and resources, realistic assumptions of geological, mining, metallurgical, economic, marketing, legal, environmental, social, governmental, engineering, operational and all other modifying factors in sufficient detail to demonstrate at the time of reporting that extraction is reasonably justified. Our mineral reserve estimates are subject to internal controls to ensure their accuracy and validity.
Proven Reserves have a higher level of confidence than Probable Reserves. Not all HMS deposits are alike, and resources with internal variability in grade, HM ("heavy mineral") assemblage, or other characteristics are not classified as reserves until sufficient drilling density and statistical validation improves our level of confidence in the estimates. The heavy mineral reserves table below is a summary of Reserves determined as economically-exploitable by individuals certified under SAMREC or JORC disclosure guidelines as “Competent Persons” or “Qualified Persons,” to prepare mineral resource and reserves estimates. No “qualified person” requirement exists under IG7 rules.
Mining and Mineral Tenure
Industry Guide 7 requires us to describe our rights to access and mine the minerals we report as ore reserves and to disclose any change in mineral tenure of material significance. Our heavy mineral exploration and mining activities in South Africa and Australia are regulated by the South African Department of Mineral Resources, the Western Australia Department of Mines, Industry Regulation and Safety and the New South Wales Department of Planning, Industry and Environment. All exploration
and mining activities are subject to multiple levels of environmental regulatory review, including approvals of environmental plans and public comment periods as pre-conditions to granting of mineral tenure.
Mineral Tenure - South Africa
Our two South African mineral sand mining processing chains are operated by Namakwa Sands and KZN Sands, both business units of Tronox Holdings plc. The South African Department of Mineral Resources and Energy (“DMRE”) is the regulatory administrator of mineral rights in South Africa, subject to the provisions of the Mineral and Petroleum Resources Development Act (“MPRDA”), No. 28 of 2004, as amended in 2016. The MPRDA vests all mineral rights in South Africa in the national government and establishes conditions for the acquisition and maintenance of prospecting and mining rights. Prospecting rights and mining rights may only be granted by the DMRE. Prospecting rights are granted for a maximum period of five years and can be renewed once for an extension of up to three years. Prospecting rights may be revoked for non-compliance with the terms of the prospecting right.
Mining right applications require additional approvals by the Department of Environmental Affairs (“DEA”) of an Environmental Management Program (“EMP”) and an Integrated Water and Land Use License. Our South African operations are 74%-owned by Tronox through its subsidiaries, Tronox Mineral Sands (Pty) Ltd and Tronox KZN Sands (Pty) Ltd, with the remaining 26% being owned by Exxaro, subject to our "flip-in" rights described elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Mining rights are valid for up to 30 years and may be extended by 30-year renewals, subject to compliance with conditions established in the EMP and by the MPRDA. Environmental permitting and compliance are co-administered by the regional offices of DEA and Development Planning. All rights, licenses and permits for Namakwa Sands and KZN Sands are in good standing.
Tronox holds mining rights over an area of 19,205 hectares (47,457 acres) and surface rights totaling 17,111 hectares (43,542 acres) at the active mining site near Brand-se-Baai.
Tronox also controls mining and prospecting rights in KwaZulu-Natal Province, on South Africa’s Indian Ocean coast, through Tronox KZN Sands (Pty) Ltd, a subsidiary of Tronox. Mining Authorizations cover approximately 4,041 hectares (9,986 acres) at Fairbreeze, where surface access rights are either owned directly by KZN Sands or secured by agreements with Mondi Ltd. A further 4,790 hectares (11,836 acres) of prospecting rights are held by KZN Sands at the nearby Port Durnford and Waterloo project areas.
Mineral Tenure - Australia
Our Australian mineral properties are divided into the Northern and Southern Operations of the Swan Coastal Plain of Western Australia and the Eastern Operations of the Murray Basin in New South Wales and Victoria. Mining tenements in Australia are managed at the State or Territorial level. In Western Australia, Mining Leases, Exploration Licenses and Retention Licenses are granted and administered by the Western Australian Department of Mines, Industry Regulation and Safety, and in New South Wales by the NSW Department of Planning, Industry and Environment, under the authority of the Western Australian Mining Act 1978 and the New South Wales Mining Act 1992, respectively. Principal environmental authorities are the Western Australian Department of Water and Environmental Regulation and the NSW Environment Protection Authority.
In the North Perth Basin, Western Australia, Tronox controls mining leases, exploration and other licenses and rights covering a total 50,838 hectares (125,623 acres). Mining and Public Environmental Review plans are approved for the Cooljarloo mine and the planned Dongara mine. Environmental Protection Agency approval of Cooljarloo West is anticipated during 2021. The main Cooljarloo deposit covers 9,744 hectares (24,078 acres). We hold 14 mining leases at the Dongara project. Three older mining leases are held at our Jurien property, the site of a former heavy minerals open pit mine operated by another party in the 1970’s.
Under the Cristal Transaction, Tronox acquired mining and exploration licenses in the South Perth Basin and Murray Basin heavy mineral provinces of Australia. Many of these mining properties were originally acquired by Cable Sands Pty Ltd, starting in the 1950’s, and some mineral tenure remains under Cable Sands as a Tronox subsidiary. The acquisition of Cable by Bemax in 2004, Bemax by Cristal in 2008, and Cristal by Tronox in 2019 transfers these assets and a rich legacy of innovation in heavy mineral mining and processing as well as responsible environmental stewardship to Tronox.
The Southern Operations in the southwest of Western Australia comprises 30 mining leases, 5 exploration licenses, 3 retention licenses, 2 general purpose leases and 2 miscellaneous licenses totaling 16,178 hectares.
Tronox holds 4 mining leases, 14 exploration licenses, 2 retention licenses, and 1 Exploration License Application in our Eastern Operations in the Murray Basin of New South Wales, Victoria and South Australia. The tenements cover about 524,400
hectares (2,025 sq miles). Three mining leases west of Pooncarie, NSW cover about 6,720 hectares (16,605 acres) surrounding our active mines at Ginkgo, Snapper and Crayfish. One mining lease of 2,330 hectares is at the Atlas/Campaspe project, NSW.
Mineral Sands - South Africa and Australia
HMS deposits are natural concentrations of granular minerals of high densities (conventionally above about 2.85 gm/cm3). The heavy mineral assemblage of a particular HMS deposit generally reflects the HM contained in local and regional source rocks, and titanium-rich HMS deposit source rocks are typically granitic and/or high-grade metamorphic crystalline rocks. Factors that influence the formation of HMS deposits include erosion of crystalline source rocks, fluvial transport to the coastline, longshore drift, coastal geomorphology, deposition of heavy minerals, and prolonged natural sorting of heavy minerals by water and wind, according to the density, size and shape of HM grains. Post-depositional geological processes that can affect the economic viability of a HMS deposit include in situ weathering, induration of the host sands, and natural preservation or destruction of the HMS deposit.
Not all heavy minerals have commercial value, and a distinction is made between the Total Heavy Minerals (“THM”) and Valuable Heavy Minerals (“VHM”). Typical VHM assemblages include the titanium-iron oxide mineral, ilmenite (FeTiO3); rutile, a premium titanium mineral (TiO2), leucoxene, a naturally-upgraded variety of ilmenite; and zircon, a zirconium silicate (ZrSiO4) valuable for its use in a diverse range of industrial and construction applications. Other HM of commercial value, such as garnet, staurolite, kyanite and monazite, may be recovered as by-products.
Our TiO2 business explores, acquires, mines and processes heavy mineral sands to produce concentrates of titanium minerals and VHM co-products, particularly zircon. HMC from primary concentration at our mines are transported to our integrated mineral separation plants (MSP) to separate and concentrate VHM by gravity, magnetic and electrostatic techniques. Multiple grades of titanium minerals and zircon may be produced from each MSP. We upgrade ilmenite into titanium slag at our two South African operations and SR at our Chandala metallurgical complex in Western Australia. Our captive titanium mineral products provide a secure, long-term low-cost supply of high-grade feedstock for our TiO2 manufacturing facilities.
Our mineral property disclosures express grade in terms of the percentage of THM by weight in the ore and VHM as percentages of ilmenite, rutile + leucoxene, and zircon in the heavy mineral assemblage. Our Reserve estimates are based solely upon the value of recoverable zircon, rutile, ilmenite and leucoxene.
In 2020, we produced concentrates of ilmenite, rutile, leucoxene, and zircon from five operations: Namakwa Sands, Western Cape, South Africa; KZN Sands, KwaZulu-Natal, South Africa; Northern Operations, Western Australia, Southern Operations, Western Australia; and Eastern Operations, Murray Basin, New South Wales, Australia. Ilmenite from our Namakwa and Fairbreeze mines in South Africa is converted to titanium slag at our smelters at Saldanha Bay Western Cape and Empangeni, KwaZulu-Natal, respectively. Ilmenite from our Cooljarloo mine in Western Australia is converted to SR at our Chandala metallurgical complex and is most commonly used as feedstock to our TiO2 pigment plants at Kwinana and Kemerton south of Perth. Our vertically integrated mining-processing operations satisfy a significant majority of feedstock requirements for our nine TiO2 manufacturing facilities in the United States, The Netherlands, France, the United Kingdom, Brazil, Saudi Arabia, China and Western Australia.
TRONOX MINERAL SAND - MINERAL PROCESSING CAPACITIES - (metric tonnes per year)
________________
(1) includes natural rutile + leucoxene
(2) includes multiple grades of zircon
The data are generalized to reflect current mining and processing capabilities, and may differ slightly from design capacities.
Some ilmenite production concentrates are consumed internally without beneficiation to slag or SR while others are sold commercially.
Namakwa Sands, Western Cape, South Africa
Our heavy mineral sand operations in South Africa include similar material flows from integrated mine-mineral separation-smelter value chains on the west and east coasts of South Africa. Both Namakwa, Western Cape and KZN Sands, KwaZulu-Natal produce smelter products of titanium slag and pig iron from ilmenite, plus commercial grades of zircon and high-grade rutile + leucoxene concentrates.
The Namakwa Sands heavy mineral deposit at Brand-se-Baai was discovered in 1986 by Anglo American, which commissioned the integrated mine-MSP-smelter project in 1995. Ore is excavated from two open-pit dry mines and delivered by trucks and conveyors to two primary wet concentration plants. Heavy Mineral Concentrate is separated into magnetic and non-magnetic fractions at a secondary concentration plant at the mine. The two fractions are further processed at a mineral separation plant (“dry mill”) 52 km south at Koekenaap. Ilmenite, rutile and zircon are transported by rail from Koekenaap to Saldanha Bay, where ilmenite is smelted in a two-furnace complex into titanium slag and pig iron. Chloride-grade slag, slag fines, pig iron, rutile and zircon are exported from our proprietary facilities at the Saldanha Bay deep-water port, about 150 km north of Cape Town.
Namakwa Sands reserve estimates as of December 31, 2020, in accordance with SAMREC (2016) reporting standards, are: 44 million tonnes in-place HM, containing over 21 million metric tonnes ilmenite, 4.6 million tonnes zircon, and 4.5 million tonnes rutile and leucoxene from 727 million tonnes of ore. These estimates reflect a 3.6% net decrease of in-place THM from the December 31, 2019 reserves estimate, due primarily to mine depletion. The current mining rate varies between 20 and 25 million tonnes of ore per annum from two open-cut mines in adjacent ore bodies known as the Graauwduinen West and Graauwduinen East deposits.
The Namakwa Sands HM deposit occupies an ellipsoidal area of 15 kilometers northeasterly by 4 km wide and is interpreted to be an ancient dune complex shaped by prevailing winds at the time of its formation. Repetitive cycles of erosion from crystalline source rock, fluvial transport and prolonged reworking by water and wind formed the deposit.
The Namakwa Sands heavy mineral assemblage is heterogeneous, creating challenges to efficient recovery of valuable heavy minerals. Significant amounts of low-value heavy minerals in the Namakwa HM assemblage include: garnet, pyroxene, hematite, magnetite, and kyanite. Most of the ore reserves are hosted by a complex dune sand sequence over 40 meters thick, known as the Orange Feldspathic Sand (“OFS”). The OFS is significantly affected by the formation of hard duricrust layers and lenses, interpreted to be a chemical precipitate of variable amounts of silicon (Si), calcium (Ca), magnesium (Mg), iron (Fe), aluminum (Al) and other constituents from alkaline groundwater. The duricrust is superimposed upon HM-bearing strata and adversely affects VHM recoveries. Additional reserves are hosted at the surface by a sheet-like layer of iron oxide-stained, wind-blown sand known as the red aeolian sand (RAS). Little overburden is present.
Adjustments to our geotechnical-economic modelling and a comprehensive metallurgical program have enabled division of the West and East deposits into multiple geological domains based on mineralogical and processing characteristics. A better understanding of the Namakwa deposit has led to improvements in liberation and recoveries of VHM.
KZN Sands, KwaZulu-Natal, South Africa
Our KZN Sands integrated mining-processing operation was commissioned by Iscor Heavy Minerals, predecessor to the Mineral Sands division of Exxaro Resources Ltd, which merged with Tronox in 2012. KZN Sands operates the open-cut Fairbreeze mine, 8 km south of the coastal town of Mtunzini, the Central Processing Complex, 30 km west of Richards Bay, and bulk export facilities at the port of Richards Bay.
The Fairbreeze deposit is hosted by deeply weathered “Berea-type” sands which are mined using a combination of track dozers and a hydraulic mining technique that was pioneered for HMS mining at our Hillendale mine, where rehabilitation is now complete. High-pressure water jets disaggregate the fine-grained sand into a slurry that is pumped to a primary wet plant to produce heavy mineral concentrate, which is hauled by truck 45 km to the Empangeni CPC for separation into commercial zircon and rutile concentrates, and ilmenite feed for the adjacent two-furnace smelter. Except for local consumption of some pig iron, all saleable products are exported from Richards Bay, including high-grade titanium feedstocks for our TiO2 pigment plants.
The Fairbreeze deposit is hosted by a complex of strandline/paleo-dune couplets, about two kilometers inland from the modern coastline, forming an elongate ridge extending about 12 km south-southwesterly from the town of Mtunzini with a maximum width of about two kilometers. No overburden is present. Modern erosion has dissected the deposit into five discrete ore bodies. The Fairbreeze dune complex is part of a regional, coast-parallel corridor of terraces and dunes collectively known as the Berea Red Sands that formed along the southeastern coast of Africa from Durban to Mombasa, in response to static sea levels of the Pliocene-Pleistocene. As with all heavy mineral sand deposits, iron-titanium oxides, rutile, zircon and other minerals in the HM assemblage at Fairbreeze are inherited from their source rock provenance and modified by selective sorting during deposition. Probable source rocks for the HM are the Natal Metamorphic Province and younger rift-related basalts.
Reserve estimates for KZN Sands as of December 31, 2020 in accordance with SAMREC (2016) reporting standards, are: 225 million tonnes ore averaging 5.6% total heavy minerals. Reserves were depleted by mining of 9 million tonnes in 2020, and increased by about one million tonnes, for a net decrease of about eight million tonnes ore and 0.7 million tonnes in-place THM from our 2019 reserves. The remaining ore contains approximately 7.7 Mt ilmenite, 1.0 Mt zircon, and 0.9 Mt rutile and leucoxene.
Northern Operations, Western Australia
Our mineral properties of the coastal plain of Western Australia are located within two historically important heavy mineral provinces. Our combined Cooljarloo dredge mine and planned Cooljarloo West dredge mine, 170 km north of Perth, contain proven and probable reserves of 6.5 million tonnes in-place HM. Reserves at our future Dongara mine, about 65 km southeast of Geraldton, are 3.4 million tonnes of in-place HM.
Our Cooljarloo mine and Chandala MSP and SR facility, 170 km and 65 km, respectively, north of Perth, started production in 1989 as part of the Tiwest Joint Venture, an integrated mine-to-pigment enterprise between Kerr-McGee Chemical Corp and Minproc Ltd. Subsequent reorganizations of both partners led to 100% ownership of Tiwest under Tronox in 2012.
Two dredges in a single pond feed an ore slurry to a floating concentrator to produce HMC, which is hauled by trucks 110 km south to our Chandala metallurgical complex near Muchea, 60 km north of Perth, for the recovery of ilmenite, rutile, leucoxene and zircon. Ilmenite is upgraded at Chandala to SR, a high-TiO2 feedstock for our Kwinana and other TiO2 pigment plants
Cooljarloo reserves as of December 31, 2020 are 361 million tonnes of ore, containing 6.5 million tonnes of in-place heavy minerals. The mining of low-grade ore at Cooljarloo is supported by economies of scale, low-cost dredging, a high-quality VHM suite that constitutes nearly 80% of THM, and good processing characteristics of the ilmenite in its conversion to SR. Upon exhaustion of Cooljarloo ore, the dredge mine will be relocated to Cooljarloo West, where reserves from three-ore bodies contain an estimated 2.6 million tonnes of in-place heavy minerals.
At Dongara, multiple feasibility studies, drilling, and dry-mining optimization over the past 15 years identify reserves of 68 million tonnes ore at an average grade of 5.1% THM in five deposits, for which mining and environmental approvals have been secured.
Heavy mineral deposits of our Northern Operations generally occur as stacked, elongate, NNW-trending bodies parallel to the modern coastline, bounded to the east by the Gingin Scarp. A swarm of HM deposits in the Cooljarloo district span an area of 40 km NNW by a width of over 5 km. Heavy minerals derived from the crystalline “basement” of the Yilgarn craton east of the scarp and Mesozoic sediments of the North Perth Basin west of the scarp are associated with marine still-stands on a wave-cut platform, as HM sands accumulated in shoreline, dunal and other coastal environments of a westward-regressing seacoast.
As of December 31, 2020, our total Northern Operations reserves are estimated at 9.9 million tonnes of in-place heavy minerals, including approximately 5.7 million tonnes ilmenite, 1.1 million tonnes zircon, and about 830,000 combined tonnes of rutile and leucoxene. The Cooljarloo Reserve decreased by 56 million tonnes which comprises 32 million tonnes of mine depletion and sterilization and the removal of 23 million tonnes of ore from the existing reserve, for a net decrease of 14.5% in-place THM from our 2019 year-end reserves.
Southern Operations, Western Australia
Our mineral properties in the South-West of Western Australia were acquired in the Cristal Transaction in 2019. Mining in the Capel heavy mineral province began in 1956 by Cable Sands Pty Ltd, acquired in 2004 by Bemax Resources Ltd, which in turn was acquired by Cristal in 2008. Most mineral properties, licenses and permits in our Southern Operations are held under Cable Sands, now a Tronox subsidiary.
We extract heavy minerals from the Wonnerup North open-cut HMS mine, 10 km east of Busselton, from which HMC is trucked to our MSP at Bunbury, adjacent to the Bunbury port. Most of our reported Reserves of approximately 1 million tonnes of in-place total heavy minerals as of December 31, 2020 are in the Wonnerup North deposit. The Bunbury MSP also processes streams of HM concentrates sorted by their magnetic susceptibilities from our Broken Hill MSP in New South Wales.
The Wonnerup North deposit is a shallow (~3m deep) windblown dunal deposit on the Capel paleo-shoreline, one of two strandlines, along with the Yoganup paleo shoreline, located 7 km and 15 km inland, respectively, from the modern Indian Ocean coast associated with most of the economic HMS deposits of the region. Mining commenced at Wonnerup North in June 2019
after the completion of mining at Wonnerup South. All HMC was fed to our Bunbury MSP for recovery of commercial mineral concentrates.
Ilmenite-dominant heavy mineral deposits of the South Perth Basin occur as multiple, arcuate bands, parallel to the J-shaped Geographe Bay modern shoreline. These “fossil” shorelines become progressively younger from east-to-west, reflecting HM accumulations on paleo-beaches as the sea regressed across the Swan Coastal Plain during the Late Pliocene-Pleistocene. Ore controls include: proximity of the Yilgarn Craton, the provenance for the heavy minerals geomorphology of the Geographe Bay coast, and high-energy waves that concentrated HM and winnowed out quartz and other diluting minerals on paleo-shorelines of a wave-cut platform.
Eastern Operations, Murray Basin, New South Wales, Australia
Our Eastern Operations, acquired in the Cristal Transaction, are located in the Murray Basin, a 300,000-square-kilometer intra-cratonic sedimentary basin covering parts of Victoria, New South Wales, and South Australia. Our operating mines at Ginkgo, Crayfish and Snapper are about 40 km west of Pooncarie, New South Wales. Dredge mining commenced at Ginkgo in 2006, and at Snapper in 2010. Dry-mining at Crayfish, a small deposit adjunct to Ginkgo, started in September 2019, from which ore is hauled to the Ginkgo dredge pond.
Economic concentrations of heavy minerals in the Murray Basin are found in sandy sediments associated with Pliocene coastal sand deposits, formed during marine still-stands. Higher heavy mineral grades occur as parallel, linear bands that reflect HM accumulations on paleo-strandlines. Overburden at our Ginkgo and Snapper mines is removed by conventional mining methods, followed by dredge mining of ore.
HMC from Ginkgo-Snapper is hauled by trucks approximately 240 km to our MSP in Broken Hill, NSW. The Broken Hill MSP utilizes magnetic separation techniques to produce commercial concentrates of ilmenite and leucoxene, and a non-magnetic HM concentrate. The products are railed about 430 km to the port of Adelaide, South Australia. The non-magnetic concentrates are shipped to the Bunbury MSP for further processing into final products.
HMC production from our Eastern Operations for 2020 was approximately 400,000 tonnes. At current production rates, mining is scheduled to be completed at Snapper in 2022 and at Ginkgo/Crayfish in 2023.
Government consent has been obtained for the development of two new open-cut dry mines at our Atlas/Campaspe project, 90 km north of Balranald, NSW and approximately 270 km southeast of Broken Hill. Starting with Atlas in 2022, the new production will be phased in to sustain VHM output from our Eastern Operations, as Ginkgo/Crayfish and Snapper reach depletion. HMC produced on-site at Atlas and Campaspe by wet gravity and magnetic (WHIMS) separation will be delivered to the Broken Hill MSP via a combination of road and rail transport. Current estimated reserves at Atlas/Campaspe are 5.7 million tonnes (Mt) of in-place THM, including 4.1 Mt titanium minerals and over 700,000 tonnes zircon from 88 Mt ore. Approximately 19 million tonnes of ore was mined during 2020 from Snapper, Ginkgo and Crayfish. Active exploration programs are ongoing in the Murray Basin heavy minerals province, where our exploration licenses cover nearly 5,100 square kilometers.
Our total heavy mineral reserves at December 31, 2020 in our Eastern Operations, including the Ginkgo, Crayfish, Snapper, Atlas and Campaspe HMS deposits, are 145 million tonnes of ore containing 7.0 million tonnes of in-place heavy minerals.
Vertical Integration
Our TiO2 value chain is the largest vertically-integrated TiO2 value chain in the world, and our TiO2 business is the world’s only mining-mineral processing chain with production of both titanium slag and synthetic rutile. Our South African slag, Australian synthetic rutile, and natural rutile from multiple mining-processing operations satisfy a significant majority of our internal TiO2 feedstock requirements.
There is a high degree of substitutability among natural rutile, synthetic rutile, and titanium slag as titanium feedstocks for chloride pigment production. The commercial value of titanium feedstock is a function not only of TiO2 content and supply and demand balances, but is also influenced by particle size, trace element geochemistry, logistics and other factors. The global TiO2 industry is a value-added supply chain, with final product prices for TiO2 pigment, typically more than 10x higher than that of ilmenite, the backbone of the global titanium mineral supply. The revenue assumptions for titanium feedstocks applied in the determination of heavy mineral ore reserve estimates are based on market intelligence gathered from internal and external experts, sales contracts and historic pricing.
Our LOMP and reserve estimates are derived from detailed techno-economic models created from extensive geological, mining and analytical databases, and optimized with respect to anticipated revenues and costs. Cost assumptions are developed from our extensive experience and include mining parameters, processing recoveries, foreign exchange, and rehabilitation. Each
of our operations reconcile predicted mining and processing metrics with actual production and recovery data on a monthly basis. Our models are updated as necessary and used to determine ore boundaries based on economic assumptions. To satisfy the disclosure rules in Industry Guide 7, the nominal cut-off grades used to calculate ore reserves are, generally: 0.2% zircon at Namakwa Sands; 1.5% ilmenite at KZN Sands; 1.3% THM (approximately 1% VHM) at our Northern Operations, Western Australia, 3% THM at our Southern Operations, Western Australia, and 1% THM at our Eastern Operations, Murray Basin, Australia. Actual cut-off grades applied in reserve estimates can vary according to numerous factors, such as mining method, overburden: ore ratios, and HM assemblage quality.
Heavy Mineral Reserves
Ore reserves are those portions of mineral deposits that are economically and legally exploitable at December 31, 2020. All of our heavy mineral reserves are reported on the basis of in-place, economically extractable ore, determined from comprehensive geological, mining, processing and economic models. Reserve classifications of Proven or Probable are based on the level of confidence in the reserve estimates.
The following table summarizes our heavy mineral ore reserves and their contained in situ THM and heavy mineral assemblages as of December 31, 2020. Increases or decreases in our reserves estimates from December 31, 2019 to December 31, 2020 are indicated as a percent of in-place THM reserves.
Abbreviations, Definitions, and Notations
One metric tonne = 1.10231 short tons
Ore Reserves -mineralized material inclusive of dilution, determined to be economically and legally exploitable as of December 31, 2020, classified as either Probable Reserves or Proven Reserves, based on level of confidence.
THM - total heavy minerals, densities >2.85 g/cm3 regardless of commercial value
VHM - valuable heavy minerals, including Ilmenite, Rutile, Leucoxene & Zircon, reported as percentage of THM.
Change from 2019 - Increase (decrease) in percent change of in-place THM from 2019
Minor computational discrepancies may be due to rounding
Cooljarloo Dredge Mine reserves include Cooljarloo and Cooljarloo West
Key Assumptions - economic viability is determined by techno-economic modeling that integrates geological, analytical and geotechnical databases, mining parameters, metallurgical recoveries, known or forecast operating costs, cost of capital, and product sales prices at time of production. Historical sales prices by themselves are unreliable predictors of future prices, and our forecasts are based on our private contracts, internal and external market research.
Disclosures of mineral reserves traditionally include a cut-off grade, the grade in a mineral deposit below which material cannot be profitably mined and processed. However, economic exploitability is determined by many modifying factors other than
grade, and most modern mining operations, including ours, use detailed computer models utilized by employees who possess the experience and technical expertise to identify what parts of a deposit are economically exploitable. As cut-off grades remain entrenched in the mining industry, the following nominal cut-off grades apply, with qualifications, to our five operations: 0.2% zircon at Namakwa Sands; 1.5% ilmenite at KZN Sands; 1.3% THM (approximately 1% VHM) at our Northern Operations, WA, 3% THM at our Southern Operations, WA, and 1% THM at our Eastern Operations, NSW.
Production forecasts of commercial-quality titanium mineral and zircon concentrates from reserves are taken from our Life-of-Mine Plans. Mining recoveries are typically close to 100%, but metallurgical recoveries in each concentration step can vary widely, as a function of ore and mineral characteristics. We apply recovery factors based on actual operating data. Unrecovered VHM in certain dry mill tailings streams are stockpiled, but their hypothetical value is not considered in our revenue assumptions.
Mineral reserve estimates, life-of mine projections, and revenue assumptions are inherently forward-looking and subject to market conditions, uncertainties and unanticipated events beyond our control.
The following table compares the heavy mineral reserves reported for the three years ending December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, expressed as millions of metric tonnes of in-place total heavy minerals:
3-Year Reserves (Mt In-Place THM)
Item 3.