Item 2.
Properties
Below are our primary offices and facilities at December 31, 2016. We believe our properties are in good operating condition, and are well maintained. Pursuant to separate financing agreements, substantially all of our U.S. properties are pledged or encumbered to support or otherwise provide security for our indebtedness.
Corporate
Our corporate offices consisted of the following:
TiO2 Segment
Mining Operations
We lease office space located at 115 West Street, Sandton, South Africa for our TiO2 minerals management offices.
Our KZN Sands operations consist of the Fairbreeze mine (which entered into commercial production in April 2016), a concentration plant, a mineral separation plant and a smelter complex with two furnaces.
Our Namakwa Sands operations include the Namakwa Sands mine, a primary concentration plant, a secondary concentration plant, a separation plant, and a smelter complex with two furnaces.
Our Western Australia operations consist of the Cooljarloo mine, a concentration plant and the Chandala processing plant, which includes a mineral separation plant and a synthetic rutile plant.
Pigment Operations
Our owned office at 3301 NW 150th Street in Oklahoma City, Oklahoma is used for our pigment management operations and research and development.
Our pigment facilities consist of the physical assets necessary and appropriate to produce, distribute and supply our TiO2, and consist mainly of manufacturing and distribution facilities. The following table summarizes our TiO2 production facilities and production capacity (in gross MT per year), by location:
Electrolytic Operations
We have an electrolytic manufacturing and distribution facility as follows:
Index
Alkali Segment
Our leased office at 1735 Market Street, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania is used for our Alkali management operations.
Our Alkali production facilities are located at our mine sites, which are both located in the Green River Basin in southwestern Wyoming, USA. The following table summarizes our Alkali production facilities:
(1)
We own in fee simple surface land on which our principal surface processing facilities are located. We have the right to use track owned by the Union Pacific Railroad under track lease agreements. Mining and mining-related assets are located in areas where we operate under the authority of our mineral leases and mining permits and access to these operations is granted under the mineral leases themselves and, in some cases, separate surface rights agreements with the BLM, State of Wyoming and Anadarko, as well as with private surface users in and adjacent to our mine permit areas.
Mineral Properties
As of December 31, 2016, we had estimated mineral ore reserves at our two business segments, TiO2 and Tronox Alkali. Our three mineral sands operations in South Africa and Western Australia mine titanium-bearing heavy mineral sands to provide titanium mineral feedstock for our TiO2 value chain and commercial-grade co- products for external sale. Our Alkali business extracts trona, a natural hydrous sodium carbonate mineral used in the production of soda ash in southwestern Wyoming, USA. Soda ash, the commercial term for sodium carbonate (Na2CO3), is a basic ingredient in many consumer goods and a raw material used in a diversity of manufacturing processes.
Each mining operation maintains a Life-of-Mine Plan (“LOMP”), which is a strategic business plan for short and long-term mine planning and decision-making. A LOMP is based in part on estimated mineral reserves and can serve as a road map for mine development and planning, resource development, production targets, marketing, and financial management.
Reporting of Ore Reserve and Mineral Resources
U.S. registrants are required to report ore reserves under SEC Industry Guide 7, “Description of Property by Issuers Engaged or To Be Engaged in Significant Mining Operations”. Industry Guide 7 requires that sufficient technical and economic studies have been completed to reasonably assure economic extraction of the declared reserves, based on the parameters and assumptions current to the end of the reporting period.
The mineral reserve estimates are based on detailed geological, geotechnical, mine engineering and mineral processing inputs, and financial models developed and reviewed by Tronox employees/management in South Africa, Australia and United States, who possess years of experience directly related to the resources, mining and processing characteristics or financial performance of our operations. Additionally, our management and technical staff includes senior personnel who have remained closely involved with each of our active mining and mineral processing operations since the operations commenced.
Our estimates of heavy mineral and trona reserves are derived from successive generations of in-house reserve and economic analyses and are routinely reviewed by third party consultants. All of our mineral reserve disclosures comply with US SEC Industry Guide 7. Our heavy mineral reserve estimates are guided by the mineral resource reporting standards of SAMREC, or the JORC. Definitions and determination of Proven and Probable Reserve estimates under Industry Guide 7 are equivalent in all material respects to the ore reserve classifications under SAMREC and JORC, internationally-recognized guidelines for disclosures of mineral resources and reserves designed to ensure transparency, data validity and standardized methodologies for estimating the size and grades of mineral deposits. Annual Mineral Resource and Ore Reserve Statements are generated and authorized by experienced Tronox resource professionals for each of our three heavy mineral sand operating units, using inputs from a range of disciplines. Individuals responsible for our estimates of heavy mineral ore reserves are certified by the organizations that administer their respective country codes.
Index
Our heavy mineral reserve estimates under SAMREC and JORC follow similar prescribed methodologies to classify portions of a mineral deposit as measured, indicated or inferred resources according to the level of geological confidence. Portions of those categories determined to be economic by more rigorous modeling at the time of the evaluation may be upgraded to “proved” or “probable” ore reserves. Both SAMREC and JORC require technical resource reports to be written or supervised by a professional certified as a “Competent Person” (CP) by one or more of the organizations responsible for development and maintenance of the reporting standards.
Reserve estimates for our Alkali operations at Green River Wyoming follow accepted mining industry practice and are guided by our long-term experience in extraction of trona ore from underground mining and sodium carbonate from solution mining in the district. Estimates of recoverable reserves for both techniques are routinely reconciled with actual production, and our Alkali ore reserves disclosures comply with SEC Industry Guide 7.
Despite significant differences between SEC Industry Guide 7 and SAMREC or JORC the methodologies for determination of mineral reserves, or “ore reserves,” and definitions of reserve classifications are essentially equivalent. Therefore, the Proven and Probable HM reserves stated in the table below are unmodified from the Proved and Probable. The heavy minerals (“HM”) reserves declared in the Mineral Resources and Reserves Statements are submitted by our South African and Australian operations. Under SEC Industry Guide 7, SAMREC and JORC, Proven (or “Proved”) reserves are the highest category of ore reserve estimates, whereby the quantity and quality have been computed from detailed sampling and modeling, while Probable reserves provide slightly lower geologic assurance.
Mining and Mineral Tenure
SEC Industry Guide 7 requires us to describe our rights to access and mine the minerals we report as ore reserves and to disclose any change in mineral tenure of material significance. Our heavy mineral exploration and mining activities in South Africa and Australia are regulated by the South African Department of Mineral Resources and the Western Australia Department of Mines and Petroleum respectively. Mineral tenure for our trona mining operations in Wyoming USA is secured through private and federal government leases, regulated by the BLM and WDEQ. All of our exploration and mining operations are subject to multiple levels of environmental regulatory review, that include approvals of environmental programs and public comment periods as pre-conditions to granting of mineral tenure. General descriptions of the rights and regulatory framework for minerals of relevance to Tronox follow here, and additional details are provided in the individual descriptions of our four major mineral extraction and processing operations.
Mineral Tenure - South Africa
The South African Department of Mineral Resources (“DMR”) is the regulatory administrator of mineral rights in South Africa, subject to the provisions of the MPRDA, enacted on May 1, 2004 and amended April 21, 2009. The MPRDA vests all mineral rights in South Africa in the national government and establishes conditions for grant and retention of mining rights, including royalty payments. Four principal authorizations for mineral access are granted under the MPRDA: (i) permission, (ii) right, (iii) mining and (iv) retention permit. Prospecting rights are initially granted for a maximum period of five years and can be renewed once upon application for an extension of up to three years. Mining rights are valid for a maximum period of 30 years and may be extended by 30-year renewals.
Mining rights are subject to approval of an Environmental Management Program (“EMP”) granted by the DMR, and approvals from the Department of Environmental Affairs (“DEA”) of the EMP and an Integrated Water and Waste Use License by the DEA. Mining rights may be revoked if the conditions of the EMP are breached, inaccurate or misleading information is submitted in an Environmental Management Plan report, or for any other contravention of the MPRDA. Environmental permitting and compliance is co-administered by Provincial authorities, the Western Cape DEA and Development Planning for Namakwa Sands and the KZN DEA relative to KZN Sands.
Mineral Tenure - Australia
The primary legal mineral and mining instrument in Australia is the Western Australia Mining Act of 1978 and the Mining Regulations 1981. Mining laws and regulations in Australia are enacted at the State (or Territorial) level for a range of tenement categories, including prospecting, exploration, retention and mining. Minerals in Australia are reserved to the Crown, with the exception of some historic “common law” mineral titles transferred under early land grants to private parties prior to 1899.
Mineral Tenure, exploration and mining licenses and most non-environmental mining matters are administered by the Western Australia Department of Mines and Petroleum. Mining operations in Western Australia are subject to a variety of environmental protection laws and regulations, including the Environmental Protection Act, the primary environmental regulatory framework in Western Australia; and the Environment Protection and Biodiversity Conservation Act of 1999 (EPBCA), which establishes jurisdiction over environmental matters of potential national significance.
Index
State Agreements - contracts between the State of Western Australia and the proponents of major resources projects -- are intended to foster resource development and related infrastructure investments. These agreements are approved and ratified by the Parliament of Western Australia. Our Cooljarloo mining operation is authorized by the Mineral Sands (Cooljarloo) Mining and Processing Agreement Act 1988 (WA). State Agreements may only be amended by mutual consent, thus reducing sovereign risk and enhancing security of tenure, however the WA Parliament has the authority to revoke or amend the State Agreement.
Mineral Tenure - Wyoming
Ownership of land and minerals relative to trona beds in the Green River Basin of southwestern Wyoming is divided between the Federal Government (56%), Anadarko Petroleum (38%) and the State of Wyoming (6%). Anadarko’s acquisition in 2000 of the Union Pacific Resources Group (“UPRG”) included the land and mineral ownership originally granted to UPRG’s parent company, the Union Pacific Railroad.
Leasing of Federal minerals under 41 Stat. 437, 30 U.S. Code § 124 (Section 23), “Agricultural entry or purchase of lands withdrawn or classified as containing sodium or sulphur,” is authorized by the Mineral Leasing Act of February 25, 1920, and subsequent amendments. The U.S. Government’s interests are administered by the BLM which has designated an area of 700,000 acres (283,280 hectares) as the Known Sodium Leasing Area (“KSLA”). In 1993, the BLM established a Mechanical Mining Trona Area (“MMTA”) within the KSLA and suspended oil and gas leasing within the boundary. Our mineral tenure and assets at Green River are strengthened by the KSLA and MMTA.
Mineral leasing authority by the State of Wyoming is granted in W.S. 36-6-101(b). The primary environmental regulatory authority with respect to trona extraction is the WDEQ. The WDEQ is the primary issuer of the environmental permits relevant to our operations, including air quality permits, mining and reclamation permits, as well as class III and class V underground injection control permits.
Mineral Sands - South Africa and Western Australia
Heavy mineral sands are naturally-concentrated granular minerals of high densities (conventionally above about 2.9 gm/cm3), which is typically formed by erosion, transport and concentration. The HM contained in ore sand can usually be recovered at relatively low cost by gravity separation techniques. Not all of the HM have commercial value, and a distinction is made between the Total Heavy Minerals (“THM”) and the portion of the THM composed of Valuable Heavy Minerals (“VHM”). In our disclosures, we express grade in terms of percentage of THM by weight in the ore, and express individual VHM as percentages of the total heavy minerals unless otherwise stated.
Our TiO2 business explores and mines deposits of heavy mineral sands, separates heavy mineral concentrates (“HMC”) into commercial grades of VHM co-products, and upgrades the titanium mineral, ilmenite, into high-grade feedstock for our TiO2 manufacturing facilities. A diagram of our heavy mineral sand mining and processing - TiO2 pigment value chain is as follows:
Index
All of our HM mining operations extract ilmenite, a titanium-iron oxide mineral, rutile, a premium TiO2 mineral feedstock and zircon, a zirconium silicate, (ZrSiO4) mineral valuable for its application in a diverse range of industrial and construction end-uses. Leucoxene is a naturally-upgraded form of ilmenite. Other heavy minerals present in our heavy mineral assemblages may have commercial value, subject to their recovery from HMC feed to our mineral separation plants. We recover and market staurolite, an aluminum silicate mineral used in sand-blasting and other applications, at our Chandala mineral separation plant from the HMC feed from our Cooljarloo mine. Other mineral constituents of potential value include garnet and monazite. Our reserve estimates are based solely upon the value of extractable and recoverable zircon, rutile, ilmenite and leucoxene.
All three of our TiO2 feedstock operating centers integrate heavy mineral sand mining and mineral separation with metallurgical beneficiation. Our Northern Operations in Western Australia is further integrated with TiO2 pigment manufacturing. In 2016, we mined valuable heavy minerals, including ilmenite, rutile, leucoxene, and zircon, at three integrated operations: Namakwa Sands, Western Cape Province, South Africa, KZN and Tronox Northern Operations in, Western Australia. Our Fairbreeze mine, in KZN, South Africa became fully operational in April 2016. Fairbreeze is the mining component of our integrated KZN Sands operation.
(1)
Includes Fairbreeze mine development project that entered commercial production in April 2016.
(2)
Rutile includes natural rutile and leucoxene.
Namakwa Sands, Western Cape, South Africa
We mine a large heavy mineral deposit at Brand-se-Baai from two open-cut shovel-and-truck dry mines, each with a dedicated primary wet concentration plant. HMC is processed at a mineral separation plant (“dry mill”) at Koekenaap into commercial mineral products and ilmenite is smelted in a two-furnace complex at Saldanha Bay, into titanium slag and pig iron. Commercial products are exported from our export facilities at the Saldanha Bay deep-water port.
Tronox Western Australia
The Cooljarloo mining complex, approximately 170 km north of Perth, includes two dredges in a single pond feeding ore to a floating concentrator plus mine infrastructure. The long-term LOMP brings new reserves into the production stream from reserves at the adjacent Cooljarloo West deposit and from Dongara, an advanced-stage heavy mineral sand project 28 km southeast of Port Denison and about 370 km north of Perth. The Northern Operations also include the Chandala metallurgical complex near Muchea, about 60 km north of Perth with a mineral separation plant (“dry mill”) and synthetic rutile (“SR”) plant to upgrade ilmenite to high-TiO2 feedstock for our integrated TiO2 pigment plant at Kwinana and export facilities for co-products at the port of Bunbury, WA.
KZN Sands, KwaZulu-Natal, South Africa
Heavy mineral concentrate from the Fairbreeze mine, located about 45 km south of Richards Bay, are separated into valuable co-products at our Central Processing Complex (CPC) at Empangeni, about 20 km west of Richards Bay. Ilmenite is fed to a dual-furnace electric arc smelter. Titanium slag and pig iron from the smelter and valuable mineral concentrates are exported from Richards Bay, one of the world’s largest bulk shipping ports.
Namakwa Sands was acquired in 2008 by Exxaro Sands (Proprietary) Ltd from a subsidiary of Anglo American plc. The June 2012 transaction that combined a 74% interest in the mineral sands business of Exxaro Resources Ltd of South Africa and Tronox led to the dissolution of the Tiwest Joint Venture in Western Australia and placed the Tiwest mining-processing-TiO2 chain, Namakwa Sands and KZN Sands under the management control of Tronox. Our heavy mineral production and reserves data are reported in MT on a 100% basis, unless otherwise noted.
Production from of our heavy mineral sand mining operations during 2016 are shown below. Multiple grades of some mineral products have been combined.
Index
(1)
Natural rutile + leucoxene
(2)
Includes all grades of commercial zircon
South African and Australian mineral sands under resource development strategy is guided by an in-house a resource development group comprising of key personnel with complementary expertise and experience. Our primary goal is to assure a long-term supply of titanium feedstocks to our vertically-integrated TiO2 value chain. Our three heavy mineral operations are individually described below.
We believe our fully vertically integrated titanium mining-to-titanium dioxide value chain is the largest in the world, and the TiO2 business of Tronox is the world’s only mining-mineral processing chain with production of both titanium slag and synthetic rutile. Our captive slag from South Africa, synthetic rutile from Western Australia, and natural rutile from all three operations satisfy over 100% of our TiO2 feedstock requirements. Excess TiO2 feedstock can be marketed externally or stockpiled for future internal consumption. Our TiO2 value chain is unique in the industry and allows us to synchronize our titanium mineral, feedstock and TiO2 production to current market conditions.
Natural rutile, synthetic rutile, and titanium slag are to a certain extent fungible as titanium feedstocks for chloride-route pigment production. However, each titanium mineral and beneficiated mineral product has a discreet commercial market, and the commercial value of titanium feedstock is a function not only of TiO2 content and supply and demand balances, but also particle size, trace element geochemistry, logistics and other factors. The global TiO2 industry is a valued-added supply chain, with final product prices, such as for TiO2 pigment, typically higher than that of ilmenite, the base load titanium mineral of the industry. The revenue assumptions for titanium feedstocks applied in the determination of heavy mineral ore reserve estimates are based on our sales contracts, pricing assumptions in our integrated TiO2 value chain, and market intelligence.
Our LOMP and reserve estimates are derived from detailed 3-D block modeling of individual deposits created from extensive geological, mining and analytical databases. Mining parameters, processing recoveries, and appropriate economic and financial inputs are routinely adjusted to reflect current projections of future costs and projections of future revenues. The ore boundaries used for our reserve estimates are therefore based on three-dimensional techno-economic models, not strict cut-off grades. To satisfy the disclosure rules in SEC Industry Guide 7, our nominal cut-off grades are: 0.2% zircon at Namakwa Sands; 1.5% ilmenite at KZN Sands; and 1.3% THM (approximately 1% VHM) at Tronox Northern Operations, Western Australia.
Heavy Mineral Reserves
Ore reserves are those portions of mineral deposits that we can economically and legally mined and processed at December 31, 2016. All of our heavy mineral reserves are reported are on the basis of in-place, economically extractable ore determined from comprehensive geological, mining and economic models and include dilution and mining losses. Ore is classified as either Proven or Probable, based on the level of confidence in the reserve estimates and cost/revenue assumptions.
Index
The following table summarizes our heavy mineral ore reserves and their contained in situ THM and heavy mineral assemblages as of December 31, 2016. Downward or upward movements in our total heavy mineral estimates from December 31, 2015 to December 31, 2016 are indicated.
Abbreviations and definitions:
MT -metric tonnes (1 metric ton = 1.10231 short tons)
Ore Reserves -The portions of our inventories of mineralized material inclusive of dilution, determined to be economically and legally exploitable as of December 31, 2016, classified as either Probable Reserves or Proven Reserves according based on level of confidence.
THM - total heavy minerals, with densities >2.9 g/cm3 regardless of commercial value
VHM - valuable heavy minerals, including Ilmenite, Rutile, Leucoxene & Zircon reported as % of THM.
Index
Change from 2015 - Increase or decrease of estimated in-place THM in reserves, expressed as + or - percent change from 2015.
Key Assumptions - economic viability is determined by 3D techno-economic block modeling constructed from geological, analytical and geotechnical databases, mining parameters, metallurgical recovery assumptions, pit optimizations, and economic assumptions based on current operating costs, forex, and projected product sales prices at time of production). Nominal cut-off grades are 0.2% zircon at Namakwa Sands, 1.5 % ilmenite at KZN Sands, and 1.3% THM (1% VHM) at Cooljarloo and Cooljarloo West.
Our forecast production of commercial-quality titanium mineral and zircon concentrates from reserves is based on mining rates, the heavy mineral assemblage distributions within the mine block model and our experience in metallurgical recoveries. Mining recoveries are typically at or near 100%. Metallurgical recoveries vary widely as a function of geology, mineralogy and other factors. Processing efficiencies are affected by many characteristics, including grain size, morphology and diversity of the heavy minerals, liberation of HM from their host, clays, surface coatings, and other nuances. To a practical extent, mineral separation technology is customized for specific ore types to exploit subtle differences in grain size, density, magnetic susceptibility, and conductivity to separate valuable minerals from gangue. Cumulative metallurgical recovery factors for the VHM in our mine concentrates, inclusive of primary and secondary heavy mineral concentration at the mine site and dry and wet techniques at the mineral separation plant are in the general range of 60% to 95%. Actual recoveries are applied to our economic models used for reserve estimates. Unrecovered VHM in certain dry mill tailings streams are stockpiled, but their hypothetical value is not considered in our revenue assumptions.
Tronox heavy mineral sand operations in South Africa include similar material flows from integrated mine mineral separation smelter value chains on the west and east coasts of South Africa. In the Western Cape Province, valuable heavy minerals are recovered at the Koekenaap mineral separation plant from heavy mineral concentrate produced at the Namakwa Sands mine near Brand-se-Baai. Ilmenite is fed to the integrated smelter at Saldanha Bay. Slag, pig iron, rutile and zircon are exported from the Saldanha Bay deepwater port. HMC from Fairbreeze mine, commissioned in April 2016, is separated into VHM concentrates at the Central Processing Complex (“CPC”) at Empangeni where ilmenite is fed to a dual electric arc furnace smelter for conversion into slag and pig iron. All commercial products, including slag feed to our own TiO2 pigment plants, are exported from Richards Bay.
The following table compares the heavy mineral reserves reported for the three years ending December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014:
The above three -year total heavy mineral reserves for the Tronox Mineral Sands Division are expressed as millions of MT in-place THM for the years ended 2014 through 2016. Life-of-Mine Plans for each operation may include some non-reserve mineralized material not currently determined to be reserves under the guidelines of SEC Industry Guide 7, and the mine lives in the LOMPs may be longer than what can be supported by the reserves. At current mining rates, our reserves can sustain mining for over 25 years at Namakwa, over 12 years at KZN, and over 20 years in Western Australia.
HM Deposit Geology and Mining Operations
Our vertical integrated TiO2 business is anchored by our three large heavy mineral mining and processing operations: Namakwa Sands and KZN Sands on the West Coast and East Coast, respectively, of South Africa and Tronox Western Australia.
HMs are defined by densities of at least 2.9 grams per cm3, and heavy mineral placers are accumulations of high-density minerals sufficiently durable to survive erosion and water transport to co-depositional sites, as a consequence of their similar hydrodynamic characteristics. However, placers of the titanium minerals ilmenite and rutile accompanied by significant percentages of zircon (ZrSiO4) are a distinctive class of heavy mineral deposit that provides most of the world’s supply of titanium and zirconium raw materials.
Index
All ore deposits are accidents of geology resulting from unusual circumstances, and deposits with long-term mine lives are rare. Our three integrated mineral sands operations are based on large HM deposits of high-quality heavy minerals. These resources are examples of coastal plain Ti-Zr heavy mineral deposits, but their individual mineralogy, ore characteristics and extraction methods are different. Heavy mineral assemblages are inherited from their source, usually very old crystalline basement, with often complicated histories of erosion-deposition cycles. The cumulative output from our three mineral sands operations allows us flexibility in supplying TiO2 feedstock to satisfy our vertically-integrated TiO2 manufacturing chain. Production in excess of our internal needs can be stockpiled or sold.
Namakwa Sands, Western Cape, South Africa
Our interest in Namakwa Sands is held through our subsidiary, Tronox Mineral Sands (Pty) Ltd, which owns 74% of Namakwa Sands, an integrated mine-mineral separation-smelting-export production chain on the Atlantic Coast of the Western Cape Province, South Africa. Our operations are divided administratively into Northern Operations and Southern Operations:
The Namakwa Sands world-class heavy mineral deposit at Brand-se-Baai is approximately 385 km north of Cape Town and 92 km northwest of Vrendendal. Ore is mined from two open pit dry mines by a combination of loaders, hydraulic shovels and conveyors. Concentrates from two dedicated Primary Concentration Plants (PCP West and PCP East) are blended to feed a common Secondary Concentration Plant (SCP) for production of magnetic and non-magnetic HMC. Both mag and n/m concentrates are truck-hauled 52 km to the Mineral Separation Plant at Koekenaap, from which commercial concentrates of zircon, rutile and ilmenite smelter feed are transported by rail about 300 km south to Saldanha. The Saldanha smelter, 105 km north of Cape Town, converts ilmenite concentrates from the northern mining-processing operation to titanium slag and high-purity pig iron in two DC electric arc furnaces. We own product storage and loading facilities at the Saldanha Bay deepwater port.
The Namakwa Sands mine was commissioned in Anglo American plc with pre-mining resources of 1.17 billion MT at 7.9% THM. Phase I of the project reached full operation in 1995 at a mining rate of approximately 3.6 million ore MT, and commissioning of a 25 megawatt DC arc furnace at the Saldanha smelter. A second 35 megawatt DC furnace was commissioned in 1999, by which time ore production had reached about 4.5 million. Namakwa Sands was acquired by Exxaro Resources Ltd in 2008, and the mineral sands division of Exxaro was combined with Tronox in 2012.
Since mining started in 1994 to the end of 2016, approximately 315 million MT of ore have been extracted from the two Namakwa mine pits. Annual ore production surpassed 16 million MT in 2001 and now averages over 20 million metric tonnes per year. Our December 31, 2016 reserves of over 46 million tonnes in-place HM are sufficient to sustain the current rate of mining for over 25 years.
We hold two active MPRDA mining rights covering approximately 18,995 hectares (46,938 acres) covering part or all of the Graauwduinen, Hartbeeste, Rietfontein, and Houtkraal farms. All of these mining authorizations expire in August 2038 and will be extended as necessary for an additional 30 years. Applications have been submitted to the DMR for conversion of two prospecting rights to mining rights over an additional 3,192 hectares (7,888 acres). The mining right applications include two satellite deposits known as Rietfontein and Houtkraal, which we plan to mine as extensions of the East Mine. All minerals in South Africa are owned by the State, and mine production is subject to a royalty based on final product values. We have no reason to believe that our current mining rights will be revoked or that our new mining right applications will be rejected.
We also hold water rights for ore processing at Brand-se-Baai, HMC processing at Koekenaap, and at the Saldanha smelter. The western South Africa coast is characterized by a Mediterranean climate from Cape Town to Saldanha Bay, and becomes arid or semi-arid northward from Saldanha. Annual precipitation at the mine averages less than 200 mm. Consequently, water conservation is a high-priority in our environmental management program.
The Namakwa ore reserves are contained within and non-reserves material, covers an ellipsoidal area of mineralization 15 kilometers in a northeasterly direction with a maximum width of about 4 km, with no overburden. The NE-SW dimension is interpreted to reflect prevailing winds at the time of the deposit’s formation. A narrow sub-economic corridor divides the reserves into two proximal ore bodies, Graauwduinen West and Graauwduinen East, which are more commonly called the “West” and “East” deposits. Nearly two-thirds of historic ore production has been extracted from the West mine pit, to a maximum depth of about 45 meters. In the medium term, 60-65% of extracted ore will be mined from the West pit, but the long-term LOM Plan calls for a nearly even split between West and East mines.
The very large Namakwa HM deposit is broadly the result of prolonged, repetitive weathering-erosion-deposition cycles that were initiated with the break-up of the Gondwana Supercontinent approximately 100 million years ago. The separation of the African and South American proto-continents triggered weathering and erosion of massive volumes of sediment from high-grade metamorphic crystalline “basement” rocks of the one billion-year-old Namaqua-Natal orogenic belt. The sandy sedimentary sequence that hosts our Namakwa HM deposit is interpreted as being derived mostly from the Namaqua-Natal metamorphic belt which was welded onto the western and southern margins of the 2.6+ billion-year-old Kaapvaal Craton. High grade metamorphism facilitates the partitioning of titanium into ilmenite and rutile crystals making them available for erosion, transport and deposition to form economic deposits. Heavy mineral concentrations in beach placers, marine terraces and in coastal dunes were reworked by water and wind into what is now our Namakwa heavy mineral deposit, the end-product of 100 million years of geologic evolution.
Index
The same complex circumstances that created a deposit of over one billion tonnes also created a heterogeneous heavy mineral assemblage, from which extraction and recovery of valuable heavy minerals can be challenging. Heavy minerals in the assemblage that have no or little commercial value include garnet, pyroxene, hematite, magnetite, monazite, kyanite, chromite, cassiterite and apatite. Three basic styles of HM concentration are recognized, in decreasing age: paleo-beach placers with arcuate shapes that open to the northwest; a thick, enigmatic quartzo-feldspathic sequence known as the Orange Feldspathic Sand (OFS), interpreted as a complex of multiple dune and reworked dune sands; and a surficial, sheet-like layer of iron oxide-stained, wind-blown sand known as the red aeolian sand (RAS).
The OFS reaches a maximum thickness of over 40 meters and is by far the volumetrically largest component of our ore reserves. The OFS is overprinted by intensive arid weathering that solubilized silica, iron and other constituents into alkaline groundwater to be re-deposited as horizontal layers of hard duricrust, lenses and tabular layers of sand cemented by calcium, magnesium, aluminum, iron, and silica. Duricrust, heterogeneous lithologies, clays and variable, diverse HM assemblages can adversely affect recoveries of VHM. A comprehensive, systematic evaluation initiated almost 10 years ago has improved metallurgical recoveries. The West and East deposits are separately modeled in 50m x 50m x 1 meter 3D blocks into multiple geological domains with distinctive mineralogies and processing characteristics. We have inserted an autogenous milling circuit ahead of the West PCP to improve liberation of VHM from duricrust-impacted OFS ore, and instituted a blending procedure to provide a more consistent HMC feed to dry separation. Two “satellite” HM deposits containing 24 million metric tonnes ore have been integrated into the medium-term life-of-mine plan, following a positive feasibility study completed in 2015. Total Namakwa Sands reserves at December 31, 2016 include over 21 million metric tonnes ilmenite, 4.8 million tonnes zircon, and 4.2 million tonnes rutile + leucoxene.
KZN Sands, KwaZulu-Natal Province, South Africa
We own a 74% interest in KZN Sands (Pty) Ltd through our subsidiaries, Tronox KZN Sands (Pty) Ltd and Tronox Mineral Sands (Pty) Ltd. The KZN Sands integrated mining-processing operation was conceived by Exxaro predecessor, Iscor Heavy Minerals (IHM) who acquired the heavy mineral properties of Shell South Africa and Rhoex Ltd in 1994. An unbundling of Iscor resulted in the new resource firm, Kumba, which gained control of KZN Sands and acquired a majority position in Australian mining firm Ticor, the then 50% partner with Kerr-McGee Chemical Corp in the Tiwest Joint Venture in Western Australia. Kumba completed its full acquisition of Ticor and in November 2006 was folded into Exxaro, South Africa’s flagship empowerment mining company, with Ticor South Africa KZN (Pty) Ltd renamed as Exxaro Sands (Pty) Ltd. The combination of Exxaro’s mineral sands business and Tronox in 2012 gives us a 74% controlling interest of KZN Sands, one of our three integrated TiO2 enterprises.
Mineral tenure for KZN Sands’ Fairbreeze mining project is held under two Mining Rights, with combined coverage of 4,041 hectares (9,985 acres), including 100% of our declared heavy mineral reserves. Fairbreeze heavy mineral concentrate is fed to our Central Processing Complex at Empangeni. KZN Sands key assets are:
●
Fairbreeze heavy mineral sands mine (45 kilometers south-southwest of Richards Bay): a new mine started production in April 2016. Our hydraulic mining and primary concentration at Fairbreeze was pioneered at the Hillendale mine which ceased mining in December 2013. HMC is transported from Fairbreeze by road about 50 km to the Empangeni CPC.
●
Empangeni CPC: 18 km west of Richards Bay including a mineral separation plant (MSP) for separation of HMC into commercial-grade rutile and zircon for export and ilmenite feed for our contiguous, dual electric-arc furnace smelter to produce high-grade titanium slag and high-quality pig iron. The Empangeni smelter produced 114 thousand metric tonnes slag and 52 thousand MT pig iron in 2016.
●
Richards Bay Harbor: a Tronox owned storage and export facility for all products.
Hydraulic mining at Fairbreeze disaggregates the ore with high-pressure water jets, and an ore slurry is pumped to the nearby primary concentration plant. The Fairbreeze paleo dune complex is an elongated body extending south-southwestward from the town of Mtunzini for about 12 kilometers, reaching a maximum width of about two kilometers and a maximum elevation of 109 meters. Surface drainages have dissected the deposit into five discrete ore bodies, Fairbreeze A, B, C, C-Extension and D. The deposit is hosted by fine-grained sand and silt in a north-northeast trending complex of strandline/paleo dune couplets two kilometers inland from the modern coastline.
Index
Fairbreeze is part of a regional near-shore, coast-parallel corridor of terraces and dunes composed of reddish-colored sands, the “Berea Red Sands,” along the southeastern coast of Africa from Durban to Mombasa. As with most heavy mineral sand deposits, iron-titanium oxides, rutile, zircon and other heavy minerals in the HM assemblage at Fairbreeze are inherited from their source rock provenance and modified by selective sorting during deposition. The Natal Metamorphic Province and younger rift-related basalts are interpreted as the primary source for the Fairbreeze heavy minerals. Terrestrial weathering of terrace deposits to oxidize iron minerals, followed by a period of extensive reworking of coastal sediment by static sea levels completed the formation of the Fairbreeze deposit.
The estimated Fairbreeze heavy mineral reserve of 11.7 million tonnes in-place HM contains 7 million tonnes ilmenite, over 600 thousand tonnes rutile and leucoxene, and nearly 1 million tonnes zircon.
Our mining right, Environmental Management Program, and water use license have all received approval at the provincial level. Challenges from local conservation groups to our mining and water permits have been dismissed, and we continue to maintain an active dialogue with local authorities and residents.
Fairbreeze ore is currently mined at a rate of about 10 million tonnes per year, HMC is transported by truck about 50 km to the Empangeni Central Processing Complex (CPC). The current Fairbreeze life-of-mine plan, based on total in-place heavy mineral reserves of 11.7 million tonnes THM, and an annual supply of over 500,000 tonnes ilmenite to the smelter is sustainable for approximately 12 years. Life-of-mine plans are strategic business guidance tools and intentionally flexible.
Tronox Western Australia Northern Operations
Our Cooljarloo mine, Chandala metallurgical complex and Kwinana pigment plant are the key components of our integrated TiO2 supply chain in Western Australia. Our 2012 acquisition of the sands business of Exxaro Resources Ltd unified the equal interests of Tronox and Exxaro in the Tiwest Joint Venture under Tronox Management Pty Ltd, a subsidiary of Tronox Ltd. The mine, mineral reserves and the Chandala complex are collectively known as our “Northern Operations,” summarized as follows:
●
Cooljarloo mine, approximately 170 kilometers north of Perth, a large dredge mine with two dredges, Cooljarloo I and Pelican, feeding an ore slurry to a floating concentrator for production of heavy mineral concentrates (HMC). HMC is transported by double “road-train” trucks approximately 110 km south to our Chandala Mineral Separation Plant (“dry mill”) near Muchea.
●
Chandala Processing Plant, approximately 60 kilometers north of Perth, where ilmenite, rutile, leucoxene and zircon are separated and recovered from the HMC in a Mineral Separation Plant. Ilmenite is upgraded to SR in an Improved Becher Process synthetic rutile plant. SR can be consumed by the Kwinana TiO2 plant, exported for sale, or stockpiled.
●
Future mine reserves at Cooljarloo, Cooljarloo West, and Dongara totaling an estimated 11.5 million tonnes of in-place total heavy minerals, sufficient to sustain our current HMC production rate.
●
Feed to our Kwinana and other TiO2 pigment plants for over 20 years. The Tronox Western Australia Southern Operations are described in Part 1, Item 1.
The Tiwest Joint Venture began in 1988 as a partnership between Kerr-McGee Chemical Corporation and Minproc Engineering, whose respective 50% interests would eventually pass to Tronox and Exxaro. The Cooljarloo mine started production in December 1989, and as of December 31, 2016 we entered our 29th year of continuous operation, with cumulative production of about 18 million tonnes HMC. Resource development, mining, processing, marketing and finance are guided by a comprehensive life-of-mine plan that integrates three-dimensional geological-resource block modeling, pit optimization and mine scheduling. Our techno-economic model is maintained by an in-house team of diverse skills and extensive expertise who routinely evaluate and update the LOMP. The low heavy mineral grades of our Cooljarloo ore reserves are offset by low-cost dredging and a high-quality heavy mineral assemblage of nearly 80% VHM of THM, including ilmenite with superb processing characteristics.
The economic disadvantage of mining very low-grade ore is offset by a large deposit with a high-quality heavy mineral assemblage of nearly 80% VHM of THM, including ilmenite with superb processing characteristics, and low-cost dredge mining. However, much of our success in Western Australia is the result of continuous improvement in all areas, willingness to embrace technology, and a cadre of dedicated, experienced professionals who have arguably established one of the most efficient operations in the TiO2 industry.
All of our heavy mineral ore reserves are under mining leases granted by the Western Australia Department of Minerals and Petroleum, or in the case of our active Cooljarloo mine, Mineral Sands Agreement 268 (MSA 268), authorized by the Western Australia Parliament as the Mineral Sands (Cooljarloo) Mining and Processing Agreement Act 1988. State Agreements have been used by the government of Western Australia since the 1950s to provide mineral tenure and define responsibilities for major resource projects, particularly those that require the development of major infrastructure. MSA 268 covers 9,745 hectares (20,080 acres). Two ML applications are pending at Cooljarloo West - M70/1314 and M70/1333 totaling 4,414 hectares (10,907 acres), and 20 ML’s totaling 15,162 hectares (37,466 acres) have been granted at our Dongara project. Three older ML’s at our Jurien property, the site of a former heavy mineral open pit mine operated by WMC in the 1970’s. Our total mineral position in Western Australia consists of 16,215 hectares of Mining Leases and 68,194 hectares held by Exploration and Retention Licenses.
Index
The Cooljarloo “deposit” is an accumulation of multiple, parallel HM ore strands and lower-grade, tabular HM deposits in a swath of ancient shoreline placers over a width of five km or more over a NNW trend of at least 40 km. The deposits are interpreted as shoreline and shallow off-shore HM placers, derived from erosion, stream transport and deposition of heavy minerals according to their densities, grain size and shape that governed their settling characteristics. The low escarpment known as the “Gingin scarp” east of the Cooljarloo mine is a major control for the Cooljarloo and other HM deposits in the northern Perth Basin, as it represents a wave-cut escarpment that prevented incursion of the ocean further eastward during the formation of HM placers from about the Early Pleistocene and younger. The Cooljarloo HM-bearing sands overlie Mesozoic sedimentary rocks which are a local source of detrital HM that were ultimately sources from the granitic and gneissic basement of the Yilgarn craton to the east. Younger shoreline placers at Jurien and Dongara are often buried by overburden which generally thins toward the Gingin scarp.
The Cooljarloo heavy minerals are generally characterized by a mature assemblage of ilmenite, leucoxene, rutile and zircon with subordinate staurolite, monazite, kyanite and other HM. Besides the titanium minerals and zircon, only staurolite in minor amounts has been recovered and sold. Cooljarloo ilmenite tends to be weathered to 60% or more TiO2 and is very porous on a microscopic scale, giving it superb processing qualities for its conversion to synthetic rutile.
An alternate mine plan was implemented in 2016 to minimize capital spending in the near term, which altered the sequence of mining and greatly reduced overburden volumes in the near term. In 2016, 24Mt of ore was mined from the reserve at the Cooljarloo Mine to produce 379 kt of heavy mineral concentrate. Other modification to ore reserves from new drilling and optimization resulted in an increase of 24Mt of ore, which exactly offsets mining depletion resulting in no change to reserve tonnes.
Our total heavy mineral reserves at December 31, 2016 in Western Australia of 513 million tonnes of ore containing 11.7 million tonnes of heavy minerals represent an increase of 0.9% in contained heavy minerals over the 2015 estimate. The heavy mineral reserves include 6.8 million tonnes ilmenite, 1.2 million tonnes zircon, 600,000 tonnes rutile and 300,000 tonnes leucoxene.
Tronox Alkali - Green River, Wyoming
In April 2015 Tronox acquired the Alkali Chemicals Division of FMC, making Tronox Alkali the world’s leading producer of natural soda ash. Natural soda ash is refined from trona, a sodium carbonate mineral composed of soda ash (Na2CO3), sodium bicarbonate (NaHCO3) and water with the chemical formula Na2CO3•NaHCO3•2H2O. Approximately 75% of the world’s natural soda ash is produced from trona extracted from underground mines and solution mining in the Green River Basin of southwestern Wyoming.
The Green River trona beds are collectively the largest deposit of trona and the undisputed largest source of raw material feed for the production of natural soda ash in the world. The origin of the trona deposits is the result of very unusual, geological circumstances. Sodium-rich springs are believed to have fed ancient Lake Gosiute, a large, shallow inland lake that reached a maximum extent of over 15,000 square miles (about 40,000 sq km) around 50 million years ago. In response to repetitive cycles of lake expansion, contraction and evaporation, and changes in temperature and salinity, trona was precipitated in beds of remarkable purity and extent. In addition to trona, the evaporite sodium mineral assemblage includes variable levels of other sodium carbonate minerals as well as halite (NaCl). At least 25 beds of natural trona in the Wilkins Peak Member of the Eocene Green River Formation exceed at least locally three feet (1 m) in thickness and are estimated by the USGS to contain a cumulative resource of over 100 billion tons of trona. Individual trona beds are numbered in ascending order and trona beds of significance lie at modern depths between about 400 to 2,000 feet (120-600 m). Our current dry mining and solution mining operations exploit three trona beds, and our reserves are contained in four beds.
Our trona resources and mining operations are held under leases covering 88,342 acres (equivalent to 138 sq miles or 357 sq kilometers) over portions of 23 townships, primarily in two contiguous units informally known as the “Westvaco” and “Granger” blocks. Mineral and mining rights are secured by leases from the Federal government, the State of Wyoming, and Anadarko Petroleum. We lease approximately 25, 215 acres from the U.S. Government under the Mineral Leasing Act of 1920 (Title 30 §181) which includes trona under its definition of a “solid leasable mineral.” Federal minerals are administered by the U.S. Bureau of Land Management (BLM). We lease 40,883 acres from Anadarko Land Corporation, a subsidiary of Anadarko Petroleum. Anadarko’s acquisition of the Union Pacific Railroad Group in 2000 included alternate sections of land for 20 miles on either side of the trans-continental railroad, originally granted to Union Pacific under the Pacific Railroad Act of 1862 and subsequent railroad land grants. We also lease 22,243 acres from the State of Wyoming. Royalty payments range from 6% to 8% of the sales value of soda ash products.
Index
Tronox Alkali’s Westvaco site is located approximately 25 miles (40-65 km) north-northwest of Green River. We extract trona ore from our Westvaco underground mine by mechanized, continuous mining methods. Our current underground dry mine production is from a single, near-horizontal bed approximately 10 feet (3.05 meters) thick at a depth from surface of 1500-1600 feet (450-490 meters). Ore is extracted from an extensive network of parallel drifts and connecting cross-cuts, known as room-and-pillar mining, and from longwall mining. Longwall miners shear off successive panels of ore which drops onto a conveyor belt for delivery to vertical shafts to be hoisted to the surface. The Westvaco mine has been in uninterrupted, continuous operation since its start in 1947 by Westvaco Chemical Company. The Westvaco interests were acquired by FMC in 1948.
We also extract trona by secondary recovery solution mining operations in previously dry mined portions of the Westvaco mine and in trona beds impacted by former dry mining of the Granger mine. The Granger mine and processing facility, about 10 miles (15 km) northeast of the eponymous town, operated as an underground mine from 1976 to 2002. FMC acquired the properties in 1999 by acquiring Tg Soda Ash, originally developed as a unit of Texasgulf and then owned by Elf Atochem. FMC converted the mine and mill to solution mining in 2005. In our secondary recovery solution mining operations, we pump process waters from our surface facilities, along with insoluble remnant from the processing of dry mined ore, into former underground mine workings where the insoluble constituents settle out and sodium carbonate and bicarbonate are leached from trona left behind from previous dry mining. The return mine water is pumped back to the Westvaco and Granger surface processing facilities for recovery of sodium solids.
A diagram of our soda ash mining and processing value chain is as follows:
The following table summarizes the estimated in-place trona ore reserve of Tronox Alkali:
Our trona ore reserves are calculated from in-place trona-bearing material that can be economically and legally extracted and processed into commercial products at the time of reserve determination. Our reserves estimates are developed using industry-standard, best-practice procedures, and our disclosures have been reviewed internally and externally to ensure compliance with SEC Industry Guide 7. Dry mining reserves and solution mining reserves are fundamentally different in terms of extraction methods and costs, predicted recoveries and the procedures used for reserve calculations.
Index
Estimated dry mining ore reserves of 461.5 million short tons (418.6 million metric tonnes) include dilution from un-mineralized material within and marginal to the trona ore bed. Support pillars are excluded from dry mining reserves, but a portion of the trona contained in the pillars is recovered by solution mining, as described below. A bulk density factor of 133 lb/cu ft (2.16 g/cc) is used for conversion of volumes to mass. Key dry mining parameters include minimum trona ore bed thickness, minimum trona grade, and maximum percent insolubles. Mining cost assumptions are based on data accumulated from our 60+ years of experience in the Green River trona district.
Solution mining ore reserves of 453.1 million short tons (411.0 million metric tonnes) are reported on an in-place basis, inclusive of dilution from insoluble material that remains in the ground. The solution mining reserves are calculated using recovery parameters developed from our 20+ years of cumulative secondary recovery solution mining experience. Key factors include the surface area of remaining support pillars and other trona-mineralized surfaces exposed to liquid solutions injected into voids created by dry mining, solubility and alkalinity data, and predicted dissolution rates for sodium carbonate over residence times.
Dry mined and solution mined trona are refined into soda ash at our Westvaco and Granger facilities, located within the boundaries of their respective contiguous lease blocks, and involve multiple processing lines, steam generation facilities, evaporation ponds, spare parts warehouses, maintenance shops, and offices for engineering, production, and support staff. Our Green River trona mining and processing facilities typically operate at an effective capacity of about four million short tons (3.6 million metric tonnes) of marketable soda ash per year.
The sum of our total proven and probable reserves estimated as of December 31, 2016, was 915 million short tons (830 million metric tonnes, at an average grade of about 87% trona, equates to approximately 550 million short tons (500 million metric tonnes) of soda ash, sufficient to sustain production for over 100 years at our current rate of approximately 4 million short tons (3.6 million metric tonnes), which per year of refined soda ash. Our 2016 reserve disclosure is partially based the report of a third party consultant in mid-2015 that generated an updated reserve estimate. Our reported reserves reflect that estimate, reconciled with 2015 and 2016 depletion. Our life-of-mine plan is inherently forward-looking, under the meaning of the U.S. Securities Act of 1933 and subsequent amendments and is subject to uncertainties and unanticipated events beyond our control.
Item 3.