Item 2. Properties
Below are our offices and facilities at December 31, 2014. We believe our properties are in good operating condition, and are well maintained. Pursuant to separate financing agreements, substantially all of our U.S. properties are pledged or encumbered to support or otherwise provide the security for our indebtedness.
Corporate and Other
At December 31, 2014, our corporate and other offices consisted of the following:
In addition, corporate and other includes two electrolytic manufacturing and distribution facilities as follows:
Pigment
Our office in Oklahoma City, Oklahoma is used for our Pigment segment management offices and research and development, and is shared with certain corporate services.
Our pigment facilities consist of the physical assets necessary and appropriate to produce, distribute and supply our TiO2, and consist mainly of manufacturing and distribution facilities. The following table summarizes our TiO2 production facilities and production capacity (in gross metric tons per year), by location:
Mineral Sands
We lease office space located at 115 West Street, Sandton, South Africa for our Mineral Sands division management offices.
Our KZN Sands operations consist of the Fairbreeze mine (which has not yet entered into commercial production), a concentration plant, a mineral separation plant and a smelter complex with two furnaces.
Our Namakwa Sands operations include the Namakwa Sands mine, a primary concentration plant, a secondary concentration plant, a separation plant, and a smelter complex with two furnaces.
Our Western Australia operations consist of the Cooljarloo Sands mine, and a concentration plant and the Chandala processing plant, which includes a mineral separation plant and a synthetic rutile plant.
Mineral Sands Licenses and Leases
In 2014, we mined valuable heavy minerals (“VHM”), including ilmenite, rutile, leucoxene, and zircon, at two integrated locations; Namakwa Sands in Western Cape South Africa and Cooljarloo in Western Australia. Our Fairbreeze mine in KwaZulu-Natal, South Africa, will be the mining component of our integrated KZN Sands operations. Depending on construction, the Fairbreeze mine is expected to begin operations at the end of 2015, and be fully operational in 2016. Our three mining operations and their integrated mineral processing facilities have two principal commercial product lines: titanium feedstocks and zircon. Our titanium feedstocks include titanium dioxide minerals such as ilmenite, natural rutile, and leucoxene, as well as two upgraded titanium dioxide products, titanium slag and synthetic rutile. Zircon is a zirconium silicate mineral with diverse construction and industrial applications.
A diagram of our heavy mineral sand mining and processing - TiO2 pigment value chain is as follows:
 
The approximate annual production capacities of our heavy mineral sand mining are shown below. Multiple grades of mineral products may be combined in some categories.
(1)Includes Fairbreeze mine development project that depending on construction is expected to begin operation at the end of 2015.
We market our titanium feedstocks to external customers when market conditions are favorable; however, a significant portion of our production is consumed internally. Most of the ilmenite mined at Namakwa Sands is the feedstock for titanium slag production in South Africa, and ilmenite from Western Australia is internally consumed as synthetic rutile feed at our Chandala complex. The synthetic rutile product from our Chandala complex is either consumed at our TiO2 pigment plant in Kwinana or sold externally.
Mining and Mineral Tenure
We comply with SEC Industry Guide 7, which requires us to control sufficient mineral title to have access rights for exploration, development and extraction of the minerals at the time that the determination of reserves is made. Any information that materially affects the risks associated with mineral exploitation is publicly disclosed.
Our exploration and mining activities in South Africa and Australia are governed by the legal and regulatory framework of the respective national, state, or provincial authorities. Mining applications in both countries are subject to multiple levels of review, including extensive public comment, before mineral title is granted, and are subject to environmental approvals.
Mineral Tenure - South Africa
Mining and prospecting rights are administered at the national level in the Republic of South Africa (the “RSA”), as defined under the 2002 Mineral and Petroleum Resources Development Act #28 (the “MPRDA”) and its subsequent amendments. The MPRDA establishes a comprehensive regulatory framework that governs mineral tenure, establishes requirements and processes for prospecting and mine permitting, environmental impact assessments and approvals, mine closure requirements, and other mining-related matters, such as a national mineral production royalty. The lead agency for mining and mining-related matters, including granting of prospecting and mining rights and enforcement of the MPRDA is the South African Department of Mineral Resources (the “DMR”).
Environmental permitting is authorized under the National Environmental Management Act #107 (“NEMA”) and the 1998 National Water Act #36 (“NWA”), under the auspices of the RSA Department of Environmental Affairs and Department of Water Affairs (“DWA”). Environmental permitting and compliance are also administered at the Provincial level, which for Namakwa Sands and KZN Sands, respectively, are the Western Cape Department of Environmental Affairs and Development Planning and the KwaZulu-Natal Department of Environmental Affairs.
Mineral tenure at the Namakwa Sands Brand-se-Baai mine is authorized through two MPRDA Mining Rights covering a total of 13,100 hectares comprising the following farms: Graauwduinen 151 (portion 1), Rietfontein Ext 151 (portions 1 and 2), Goeraap 140 (portion 17), Hartbeeste Kom 165 (portions 1 and 3), Hartbeeste Kom 165 (portion 2), and Houtkraal (portion 5). All six mining rights have an expiry of March 31, 2037, for which 30-year extensions can be applied. In addition, Namakwa Sands has applications pending to convert three former Prospecting Rights (7,821 hectares) to Mining Rights. Namakwa holds another prospecting right with 5,758 hectares at a remote site situated 60km away from Brand-se-Baai. Mining authorizations in South Africa may be independent of access rights, and Namakwa Sands also holds surface rights totaling 17,111 hectares. All of our current mining operations and ore reserves at Namakwa Sands are secured Mining and Surface Rights.
Namakwa Sands’ process water for the mining and concentration activities at Brand-se-Baai are held by Water License 17/F60C/BEG/1783 granted November 23, 2012. The regional climate in the coastal area of the Western Cape where we operate ranges from a Mediterranean climate at Saldanha to an arid or semi-arid climate at the mine, where the annual rainfall averages less than 200 mm. Consequently, conservation of fresh water and sea water is a high-priority in our environmental management program.
Mineral tenure for KZN Sands’ Fairbreeze mining project is held under two Mining Rights, KZN30/5/1/2/2/123MR and 164MR, granted for 30-year terms in September 2009 that expire in 2039. The two Fairbreeze Mining Rights cover a total 4,056 hectares, including 100% of our declared heavy mineral reserves.
In September 2013, the DWA granted us the primary water use license required for the construction and operation of the Fairbreeze Mine. An environmental organization, the Mtunzini Conservancy, subsequently appealed the decision, which under South African law automatically suspended issuance of the license. The DWA rejected the appeal and lifted the suspension on February 5, 2014.
Mineral Tenure - Australia
Mining laws and regulations in Australia are enacted at the state and territorial levels, such as the Western Australia Mining Act of 1978 (the “Mining Act”). The Mining Act contains provisions for a variety of tenement categories that include prospecting, exploration, retention and mining. Minerals in Australia are reserved to the Crown, although some historic “common law” mineral titles transferred to private parties under early land grants prior to 1899 are recognized.
Mineral tenure, exploration and mining licenses and most non-environmental mining matters are administered by the Western Australia Department of Mines and Petroleum. Mining operations in Western Australia are subject to a variety of environmental protection laws and regulations, including the Environmental Protection Act, the primary source of environmental regulation in Western Australia, and the Environment Protection and Biodiversity Conservation Act of 1999 (the “EPBCA”). The EPBCA establishes jurisdiction over environmental matters of potential national significance. Our Cooljarloo mining operations and mineral tenure in the Cooljarloo and Dongara project areas where we disclose reserves as of December 31, 2014 are primarily regulated by the Mining Act and the 1981 Mining Regulations.
State Agreements are contracts between the State of Western Australia and the proponents of major resources projects, and are intended to foster resource development and related infrastructure investments. Among other things, State Agreements specify the rights, obligations, terms and conditions for the development of major resources projects, and establish a framework for ongoing relations and cooperation between the State and the proponent of the project. These agreements are approved and ratified by the Parliament of Western Australia. The State Agreement relevant to our Australian operations and our production of mineral sands is the agreement authorized by the Mineral Sands (Cooljarloo) Mining and Processing Agreement Act 1988 (the “Cooljarloo State Agreement”). State Agreements may only be amended by mutual consent, which reduces the sovereign risk and increases the security of tenure, however Parliament may enact legislation that overrules or amends the particular State Agreement.
Our Cooljarloo mining operations are conducted on M268SA, being a mining lease covering 9,745 hectares granted pursuant to the Cooljarloo State Agreement. We believe all critical tenure are assured for the continuance of our Cooljarloo mining operation at least until 2020.
Our heavy mineral (“HM”) reserves at Cooljarloo West are located within the area of three exploration licenses granted by the State of Western Australia totaling 28,055 hectares. A portion of the Cooljarloo West tenure can be surrendered, subject to granting of two mining leases totaling 4,414 hectares, currently under application that cover our declared HM reserves at Cooljarloo West. An additional 29,161 hectares in the immediate Cooljarloo area are the subject of nine exploration licenses and one retention license of 81 hectares granted to Tronox or its predecessors. Our total tenement ownership at Cooljarloo-Cooljarloo West covers a total 57,297 hectares of active mining leases and exploration licenses.
 
Tronox Western Australia mining leases and exploration licenses in the Cooljarloo district (left) and at Dongara (right).
Twenty mining leases, covering 17,890 hectares over the Dongara deposits have been granted by the State of Western Australia. Six of the leases are the subject of environmental proposals that have received approval from the Western Australia Environmental Protection Authority (“EPA”). The reserve estimates for Dongara are based on the results of a definitive feasibility study completed during 2013-2014.
 
Tronox integrated mine-mineral separation-slag operations in South Africa are Namakwa Sands, Western Cape Province with mining at Brand-se-Baai, mineral separation plant at Koekenaap, smelter & export facilities at Saldanha; and KZN Sands, KwaZulu-Natal Province (inset at lower right) with mine under construction at Fairbreeze, mineral separation plant & smelter at Empangeni, and export from Richards Bay. Inset at upper right shows Cooljarloo mine, Western Australia.
Reporting of Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources
U.S. registrants are required to report ore reserves under SEC Industry Guide 7 standards, which defines a mineral, or “ore” reserve as “that part of a mineral deposit that can be economically and legally extracted or produced at the time of the reserves determination.” Industry Guide 7 requires that sufficient technical and economic studies have been completed to reasonably assure economic extraction of the minerals, based on the parameters and assumptions current to the end of the reporting period.
The HM reserve estimates reported below are compiled from Mineral Resource and Ore Reserve Statements (“RR Statements”) prepared annually to reflect the estimated mineral resources and reserves as of December 31, 2014. The mineral reserve estimates are based on detailed geological, geotechnical, mine engineering and mineral processing, and financial models developed and reviewed by Tronox employees in South Africa and Australia, who possess years of experience directly related to the resources, mining and processing characteristics or financial performance of our operations. Additionally, our management and technical staff includes senior personnel who have remained closely involved with all three of our active mining and mineral processing operations since operations commenced.
Our mineral reserve estimates are guided by the mineral resource reporting standards of the South African Code for Reporting of Exploration Results, Mineral Resources and Mineral Reserves, 2007 version, as amended 2009 (“SAMREC”), and the Joint Ore Reserves Committee of The Australian Institute of Mining and Metallurgy (2012) (“JORC”). SAMREC and JORC are two standards within an international family of mineral resource codes designed to ensure data validity, standardize methodologies for estimating the size and grades of mineral deposits, guide classifications of mineral resources and reserves, and enhance the transparency of mineral resource disclosures. Our annual RR Statements are generated and authorized by experienced Tronox resource professionals who integrate inputs from a wide range of disciplines, and are routinely audited by external consultants. Individuals responsible for our estimates of ore reserves are certified by the organizations that administer their respective codes and are subject to censure if they are found to be in violation of the reporting guidelines.
Heavy mineral reserves are sub-divided according to two levels of increasing confidence, as either “Probable” or “Proven” Reserves. Under Industry Guide 7, disclosures of mineralized material that may have reasonable prospects for development but have not yet been fully evaluated to determine their economic mineability are not allowed. The term “economic,” as used in the definition of reserves, implies that profitable extraction under defined investment assumptions has been established to a high level of confidence.
SEC Industry Guide 7 differs from the SAMREC and JORC codes, but the methodologies for determination of mineral reserves, or “ore reserves,” are essentially equivalent to the methodologies endorsed under the SAMREC and JORC codes. Therefore, the Proven and Probable HM reserves stated in the table below are unmodified from the Proved and Probable HM reserves declared in the Mineral Resources and Reserves Statements submitted by our South African and Australian mines. Under SEC Industry Guide 7, SAMREC and JORC, Proven (or “Proved”) reserves are the highest category of ore reserve estimates, whereby the quantity and quality have been computed from detailed sampling, while Probable reserves provide lower geologic assurance.
The Proven and Probable HM reserves stated in the table that follows are therefore unmodified from the Proved and Probable HM reserves determined by Tronox professionals, whose mineral sands-specific experience and technical expertise qualify them as “competent persons” under their respective professional organizations. Under both the SAMREC and JORC codes, proved reserves may only be derived from mineralized material classified as measured resources, the mineral resource category with the highest level of confidence, and probable reserves are allowed to be derived from either measured or indicated resources. No comparable prescriptive procedure exists in SEC Industry Guide 7, which prohibits disclosures of non-reserve mineralized material, except when the reporting entity is listed on foreign exchanges that recognize the mineral resource mineral reserve classification scheme.
In spite of the international efforts to standardize mineral resource reporting, subjective judgments cannot be completely eliminated by modifications of the reporting guidelines. Following the acquisition of the mineral sands business of Exxaro in 2012, we established an internal Resource Technology and Development Group (“RTD Group”). Our RTD Group is composed of technical specialists with diverse technical skills from Australia and South Africa to evaluate our HM resource evaluation and development. Our RTD Group directs the sustainable development of our mineral reserves relative to our TiO2 manufacturing requirements and financial
goals. Our RTD Group assures that the preparation and reporting of our HM reserve estimates are consistent and accurate across the Tronox organization. Our reserve declarations are reviewed at multiple levels both in-house and externally, and our public disclosures are ultimately the products of successive, multi-faceted generations of technical audits.
The estimated reserves reported by Tronox are in situ, or in-place, bodies of economically and legally extractable mineralized material as of December 31, 2014. Block modeling software and techniques differ by mining operation, but the basic approach includes validation of digitized drilling data, statistical interpolations of spatial data to create “wireframe” representations of mineral deposit geometry and dimensions, followed by resource modeling that divides the deposit into a myriad of individual cells and sub-cells for further evaluation. Most of our mineral sands operations utilize multiple software programs for resource and mine modeling that have been adapted to the particular geologic, mineralization and mining characteristics of their ore deposits. A defined set of realistically assumed “modifying factors” are required under both SAMREC and JORC for the conversion of mineral resources to ore reserves, including mining dilution, mining and metallurgical recovery, economic, marketing, legal, environmental, infrastructure, social, and governmental factors. These modifying factors are equally applicable to classifications of ore reserves under SEC Industry Guide 7, which defines an ore reserve as “that part of a mineral deposit which can be economically and legally extracted or produced at the time of the reserve determination.”
Key to our long-term planning is the development and maintenance of a Life-of-Mine Plan (“LOMP”), whereby the reported reserves are included in a base case scenario for their exploitation. A LOMP is maintained for each of our three active mining operations, and is routinely reviewed by professionals from a range of disciplines to ensure their validity. The LOMP are linked to our internal mining-ilmenite beneficiation-TiO2 pigment manufacturing and marketing value chain. The LOMP are used for long-term, strategic planning and are influenced by logical mine design and economic parameters. The LOMP for each unit takes into account the reserve base with respect to mining and processing rates and projected TiO2 production, and involve forward-looking assumptions of operating costs, product sales volumes and prices, foreign exchange rates, and other inputs that are regularly re-evaluated for optimization of our mineral assets. Therefore, the LOMP include both our disclosed ore reserves as well as some portion of high-quality mineralization that has not been converted to reserves. Our operating cost and revenue assumptions are underpinned by our experience in the heavy mineral sands industry and our understanding of the business environment expected to prevail at the time of extraction of the reserves. The LOMP may therefore include some non-reserve mineralized material that will be investigated well in advance of their exploitation, as well as cost and revenue assumptions that vary slightly from the market conditions at the time of our reserve estimates. The reserve estimates disclosed in the table below are therefore different than the volumes and grades of mineralized material in each LOMP, and are believed to be in compliance with SEC Industry Guide 7 requirements to the maximum possible extent.
Mine modeling imposes practical excavation boundaries for the mining methods employed, and the modified volumes and grades are applied during the conversion of resources to reserves. Extraction boundaries and production schedule scenarios are derived from models for which realistic assumptions and estimates have been applied and interpreted by our mining staffs to have reasonable prospects for economic extraction. The modifying factors and other parameters are fluid, and there is no assurance of future economic viability, or that the material in our LOMP will ever be mined. Once the mineralized material is placed into the LOMP, the tonnages envisaged to be mined (“run-of-mine”) may include dilution from a relatively small volume of poorly mineralized material, if its inclusion is necessary or practical to satisfy mine engineering parameters. Our dilution factors are negligible for dry mines but approximately 5% for dredge mining, which has lower unit costs but is less selective. Dilution factors are independent from overburden or internal waste removal and handling, costs for which, if applicable, are factored into the economic block models. Our “nominal” cut-off grades are included in the notations in the reserves table below, in the interest of transparency and to satisfy resource and reserves reporting requirements. The cut-off-grades disclosed may not, however, reflect the actual ore extraction boundaries at the time of exploitation.
Our reserve estimates and each LOMP are underpinned by 3-D resource block models that incorporate geospatial data such as heavy mineral grades and distributions, geological domains, and geostatistical validation. The resource models are integrated with economic modeling that involves mine scheduling, engineering parameters, removal of overburden (if present), tailings management, internal transportation, environmental management, and rehabilitation. The economic modeling determines extraction boundaries based on positive
future cash flows from commercial minerals (zircon, rutile, leucoxene, non-integrated ilmenite) and upgraded ilmenite products (Ti-slag, synthetic rutile, pig iron), net of mining and processing costs. Marketing assumptions allow for our internal consumption of TiO2 feedstocks, and future sales prices for mineral products. Mining cost assumptions are based on operating expenses for comparable extraction methods at our operating mines and heavy mineral processing experience at our three mine support products facilities and costs for conversion of ilmenite to slag and pig iron in South Africa and to synthetic rutile in Western Australia.
Heavy Mineral Reserves
At December 31, 2014, our total HM reserves were approximately 1.26 billion metric tons (“MT”) of ore at a group-wide, weight-averaged grade of 6.7% total heavy mineral (“THM”), or a total in-place reserve of 69.4 million MT contained THM. Our group-wide estimated in-place valuable heavy minerals amount to 31.5 million MT of ilmenite, 5.4 million MT of rutile and leucoxene, and 6.7 million MT of zircon. Recoveries of valuable heavy minerals vary widely, and our reserve estimates account for VHM losses during mining and processing.
Other than titanium minerals and zircon, other minerals of potential value are often present to variable degrees in our HM reserves. No speculative values from these by-product minerals have been factored into our reserve estimates.
The following table summarizes our heavy mineral ore reserves and their contained in situ THM and heavy mineral assemblages as of December 31, 2014. Downward or upward movements in our total heavy mineral estimates from December 31, 2013 to December 31, 2014 are indicated.
Notations for the above HM reserves table:
MT - All measures of mass are expressed in MT, including Ore Reserves based on the in-place content of THM.
ORE RESERVES - The portions of our inventories of mineralized material that can be economically and legally mined and processed at the time of the reserves determination. Reserves are supported by iterative technical and economic evaluations that allow for mining and processing recoveries and estimated costs, marketing costs and assumptions, environmental, regulatory, social and other relevant factors. Ore reserves are classified as either Probable Reserves or Proven Reserves according to an increasing level of confidence. Our reserve estimates may include small amounts of low-grade material that would not be economic on their own merits, but have spatial relationships with more profitable ore that justifies their mining and processing.
THM Grade - The average per cent by weight of THM in ore. HM are by definition minerals of densities >2.95 g/cm3. THM include both VHM of ilmenite, rutile, leucoxene and zircon, and other heavy minerals of no or uncertain commercial value. Our reserve estimates account only for the value of the titanium minerals and zircon, without revenue assumptions for other HM byproducts that may be sold. We do not apply strict cut-off grades for our estimated reserves, boundaries of which are determined from detailed, three-dimensional block models that merge the spatial domains of the mineral deposit with realistic economic assumptions. Nominal cut-off grades for each ore deposit (reported here to conform to SEC Industry Guide 7) are: Namakwa Sands - 0.2% zircon; Fairbreeze - 1.5% ilmenite; Cooljarloo/Cooljarloo West - 1.3% THM; Dongara - 2% THM.
THM Reserves - The in situ THM estimated to be contained in the calculated reserve category. Estimated production of VHM from the THM reserves is based on the heavy mineral assemblage of each block in the mine model and our experience with recoveries of similar material. Mining recoveries are typically high, approaching 100%. Metallurgical recoveries vary according to the physical characteristics of the individual minerals that affect the ability of separation and concentration equipment to capture them. Cumulative recovery factors from mining and primary concentration through mineral separation in our operations are in the general range 60% to 95%. Mineral separation plant tailings known to contain significant percentages of unrecovered valuable HM are stockpiled for possible future recovery of VHM, but their potential value is excluded from the revenue assumptions used for reserve estimates.
CHANGE 2014 from 2013 reflects the increase (positive number) or decrease (negative number) from December 31, 2013 to December 31, 2014 of the estimated in-place total heavy mineral reserves. Year-on-year changes result from depletion, determination of reserve additions, and adjustments to the assumptions used in the short-term LOMP model. With the exception of Cooljarloo West, for which we disclose reserves for the first time, none of the total THM reserves for any mine or project at December 31, 2014 differ by more than 5% from our reserve estimates of December 31, 2013. A decrease of less than 5% in THM reserves at Namakwa Sands is due mostly to mining depletion. Other minor increases or decreases are due to mine depletion and adjustments to mine models.
TRONOX DIRECT EQUITY interest in Namakwa Sands and KZN Sands is through its 74% interest in Tronox Mineral Sands (Pty) Ltd. The remaining 26% interest in Tronox Mineral Sands (Pty) Ltd is owned by Exxaro Sands (Pty) Ltd or its affiliates.
The following table compares the heavy mineral reserves reported for the years ending December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012:
Reserve Life-of-Mine in the table above refers to the number of years in the current LOMP that are supported by our proved and probable total heavy mineral reserves. The actual mined material in the LOMP’s include non-reserve mineralized material not currently determined to be reserves under the guidelines of SEC Industry Guide 7, and are therefore of longer duration than the years shown above.
Our three mining operations maintain active HM exploration programs that emphasize improvements to the existing LOMP through additions to our reserve bases. Mineralized material classified under SAMREC and JORC rules according to increasing levels of confidence as inferred, indicated or measured resources at each of our three operations. Mineralized material within the reach of our existing mine infrastructure is of higher-priority for exploration, but without any assurance of future exploitation.
Our 2014 production of commercial heavy minerals, upgraded TiO2 feedstock, zircon and other by-products were as follows:
(1)Ilmenite includes ilmenite integrated with titanium slag in South Africa or synthetic rutile in Western Australia.
(2)“Other” includes staurolite, activated carbon and slag fines.
Heavy Mineral Deposit Geology and Mining Operations
Deposits of heavy mineral sands are concentrations of abrasion-resistant sand of high density (conventionally above 2.9 gm/cm3) that are commercial sources of titanium, zirconium, rare earths, chromium, garnet, magnetite, niobium-tantalum, thorium, tungsten, and gemstones. Heavy mineral sand deposits containing commercial quantities and concentrations of titanium oxide minerals, ilmenite, rutile, and zircon are a distinct class of ore deposit, inclusive of all ore deposits currently mined or contemplated for mining.
Our mineral sands mining operations are situated on three coastal plains: the Western Coastal Plain of South Africa bordering the Atlantic Ocean (Namakwa Sands); the narrow Eastern Coastal Plain bordering the Indian Ocean (KZN Sands); and the Indian Ocean of Western Australia. Our heavy mineral deposits reflect the accessory mineralogy of their respective bedrock provenances: Namaqualand Metamorphic Complex (Namakwa Sands); Natal Metamorphic Complex and Kaapvaal Craton (KZN Sands); and Yilgarn Craton (Western Australia).
Namakwa Sands, Western Cape, South Africa
Namakwa Sands is an integrated mine-mineral separation-smelting-export production chain on the Atlantic Coast of Western Cape, South Africa. Our Namakwa Sands operations are divided administratively into Northern Operations and Southern Operations.
Northern Operations
1)Mine, primary and secondary concentration at Brand-se-Baai located 385 km north of Cape Town. HM ore is mined from two open cut mines by excavators in two open cut dry mines, the West and East pits, each with a dedicated PCP (wet gravity). Heavy mineral concentrate (“HMC”) slurry from each PCP is pumped to a shared secondary concentration plant, where separate magnetic and non-magnetic concentrates are produced from wet high intensity magnetic separation. Both magnetic and non-magnetic HMC are transported 52 km by truck to the mineral separation plant.
2)Koekenaap Mineral Separation Plant. Commercial concentrates of zircon and rutile and ilmenite feed for titanium slag are separated from the HMC. All products are transported by rail about 300 km to Saldanha.
Southern Operations
3)Saldanha smelter located 105 km north of Cape Town, where ilmenite is fed to two open-arc DC furnaces with a minimum annual production capacity of 190,000 MT/year titanium slag and 100,000 MT/yr pig iron.
4)Saldanha export facilities which includes storage facilities and superb deepwater port infrastructure for export of 400,000 to 450,000 MT per year of final products of slag, pig iron, and two grades each of zircon and rutile.
The Namakwa integrated mineral processing project was commissioned in 1993 by Anglo American plc. Phase I of the project reached full operation in 1995 with the start-up of a 25 megawatt DC arc furnace. A second 35 megawatt DC furnace was commissioned in 1999. Namakwa Sands was acquired by Exxaro Resources Ltd in 2008, and the mineral sands division of Exxaro was combined with Tronox in 2012. Total ore from 21 years of past mining of the Namakwa ore body plus our current reserves exceeds over one billion MT.
 
Ore mining at Namakwa involves stripping of a thin surficial layer of reddish-colored, quartz-rich aeolian sand known as the Red Aeolian Sand (“RAS”), followed by a much thicker mineralized unit of orange-colored, feldspar-rich paleodune sands, the Orange Feldspathic Sand (“OFS”). Underlying the OFS at the base of the mineralized complex is a volumetrically small but high-grade paleo-strandline unit with locally 40% THM or higher. The mineralized RAS forms a sheet-like layer of aeolian sand over an approximate area of 17,000 hectares, interpreted as a backshore dune field derived from multiple strand line deposits.
Approximately 90% of the 668 million MT estimated ore and 92% of the 47.3 million THM in our Namakwa reserve statement are hosted by the orange feldspathic sand. Most of the remaining 10% is hosted by the RAS, with less than 2% in the strandline deposit. The OFS is interpreted as the remnant of a long-lived, reworked aeolian dune sand complex. The OFS exhibits considerable internal variability, including lenses and one continuous layers of hard, calcite- or silica-cemented sand, or “duricrust,” immediately below the RAS unit. Such hard layers are common in arid environments due to precipitation of cryptocrystalline silica or calcite from alkali-saturated groundwater. The duricrust is detrimental to efficient mining and processing, and - where strongly-developed - effectively sterilizes material that would otherwise be considered ore. Such zones are excluded from our ore reserve estimates.
The basal strandline HM deposits define a J-shaped embayment in the ancient coastline that is now occupied by the very slight embayment of Brand-se-Baai. Similar J-shaped bays act as depositional traps for heavy mineral accumulations and are genetically-associated with some major HM deposits such as Eneabba, Western Australia. Recent Emergent Terraces, which are heavy mineral concentrations within 500 meters of the modern high-tide mark in the Namakwa area, are excluded from our mining permit.
The Namakwa HM assemblage is diverse and variable, particularly in the OFS, the host for the majority of our HM reserves. The deposit-wide VHM: THM ratio averages about 51:49. Ore determination is guided by higher VHM grades, particularly zircon. Total HM grades tend to be higher toward the base of the OFS, but the mineralized section matures upward with a higher VHM to THM ratio. The approximate 51% VHM consist of zircon, rutile and ilmenite, while the remaining heavy minerals are a diverse assemblage dominated by garnet
and pyroxene that also contains variable kyanite, monazite, magnetite, and other heavy minerals of limited or speculative commercial value. Namakwa ilmenite exhibits a range of Ti:Fe ratios that reflect the original variability in titanium-iron oxide HM derived from the basement source rocks.
The division of the Namakwa deposit into the “West” and “East” open cut mine pits is entirely arbitrary, defined by the mine’s north-trending access road. Geologic, resource, and economic modeling are performed separately for the two mining operations with respect to their ore and mineralogical character. Because mining and mineralogical characteristics are sensitive to lithologies and duricrust layers, Geological modeling on 50m x 50m x 1m blocks reflects the significance of the vertical variability in ore character in terms of mining and processing. Individual blocks may be further subdivided according to ore types, detailed geostatistical analyses, and specific exploitation strategies applied by a very experienced mine staff. Economic modeling is strongly influenced by zircon values, for which rigorous geostatistical analyses are applied.
Historic mining in the East pit has exploited only RAS ore, but a detailed evaluation of the East mine mineralization culminated in 2013 with the addition of approximately 250 million MT of OFS ore to our Namakwa reserves. A new PCP will be constructed for treatment of OFS ore from the East pit starting 2018, and an additional East PCP upgrade scheduled for 2023 will increase East pit ore extraction to about ten million MT per year. Average ore production from the West mine pit averages 13.8 Mt through 2044 in the LOMP. Most of the declared Namakwa ore reserves are in the West pit LOMP. US-based investors are cautioned, however, that the Life-of-Mine Plan for Namakwa includes non-reserve mineralized material that currently has no assurance of economic extraction.
The combined RAS, OFS and strandline HM mineralization are differing styles within a single, very large HM deposit, the overall dimensions of which extends approximately 15 kilometers in a northeasterly direction, with a maximum width of four kilometers and a total thickness that varies up to 40 meters. A portion of the apparent size of the mineralized mass of the Namakwa deposit is currently classified by Namakwa Sands resource specialists as measured, indicated or inferred resources under SAMREC reporting guidelines, and a portion of those non-reserve estimates is included in our total 12.31.2014 proven reserves plus probable reserves estimate of 667.9 million MT at average grade 7.06% THM. However a significant amount of non-reserve mineralized material is included in our current LOMP, the base case of which extends to the year 2054, and US investors are cautioned that economic mineability of any non-reserve material is not assured.
KZN Sands, KwaZulu-Natal Province, South Africa
KZN Sands is an integrated mine-mineral separation-smelting-export operation in the province of KwaZulu-Natal on South Africa’s east coast, including the following key components:
1)Fairbreeze heavy mineral mine, a new mine now in construction approximately 45 kilometers south-southwest of Richards Bay: and
2)Central Processing Complex at Empangeni, consisting of a mineral separation plant for production of commercial rutile and zircon concentrates and ilmenite feed to two electric-arc furnaces for the production of titanium slag and pig iron.
The integrated mining-processing operation now known as KZN Sands was conceived by Exxaro Mineral Sands’ predecessor, Iscor Heavy Minerals (“IHM”), who initiated a detailed feasibility study in 1995. The mining division of Iscor was reorganized as Kumba Resources, a major equity owner of Australian mining firm Ticor (then 50% owner of the Tiwest Joint Venture in Western Australia), who acquired 40% of IHM and management control of the project in 2001 as Ticor South Africa. TSA commissioned the now-depleted Hillendale mine and integrated Empangeni Central Processing Complex in 2002-2003. The unbundling of Kumba in 2006 placed KZN Sands under empowerment mining company Exxaro Resources Ltd, and the acquisition of Exxaro’s mineral sands business by Tronox in 2012 placed a 74% controlling interest of KZN Sands under Tronox.
KZN Sands will utilize hydraulic mining at Fairbreeze to disaggregate the ore with high-pressure water jets and wash the slurry into a collection sump for screening of oversize. The remaining ore slurry will be pumped to a nearby PCP (“wet”) for gravity concentration and de-watering of the heavy mineral concentrate. At Fairbreeze, about 25 kilometers southwest of the now-depleted Hillendale mine, water recycling and other best practices will be employed to minimize environmental impacts. We believe all critical licenses and permits for Fairbreeze have been obtained, including a key water use license approved in 2013 and upheld in 2014 by the South African
Department of Water Affairs. Exploitation of 100% of our estimated 184.3 million MT ore reserves at an average grade of 6.51% THM is subject to future extensions and renewals of existing permits and licenses and approvals for other routine legal authorizations over the LOM, for which we have realistic expectations.
Fairbreeze HMC will be hauled approximately 45 km by truck to the Empangeni central processing complex, where about 30,000 MTs rutile and 60,000 MT of zircon per year will be separated from ilmenite using magnetic and electrostatic separation equipment custom-designed for the KZN heavy mineral assemblage. Zircon is fed to a hot acid leach circuit to remove iron coatings and further refined through wet separation techniques. Common to all ilmenite on the eastern South African coast, the Fairbreeze ilmenite concentrate contains discrete grains of chromite, which are deleterious to TiO2 pigment manufacturing. At Empangeni, chromite is removed from the ilmenite via roasting and magnetic separation prior to being fed to two 36MW DC electric-arc furnaces, commissioned in 2003 and 2005, with a combined annual production capacity of up to 220,000 MT titanium slag suitable for chloride-route TiO2 pigment manufacture, 121,000 MT low-manganese pig iron, and minor amounts of slag fines (produced from crushing of the cooled slag) marketable to sulfate-route TiO2 pigment manufacturers. All products are transported 22 km to Richards Bay for export.
The Fairbreeze HM sand deposits are hosted by a NNE-trending compound strandline/paleodune complex approximately two kilometers inland from the modern coastline and are part of a coastal dune field parallel to the southeastern coast of Africa from northeastern Mozambique to south of Durban. The Fairbreeze paleodune complex is an elongate body extending south-southwestward from the town of Mtunzini for about 12 kilometers, reaching a maximum width of about two kilometers and a maximum elevation of 109 meters. The Fairbreeze heavy mineral deposit near the top of the paleodune complex may once have been continuous over most of the dune field’s 12 km length, but dissection of the dune topography by modern drainages perpendicular to the dune trend intermittently truncated the deposit into five discrete bodies, termed Fairbreeze A, B, C, C-Extension and D.
The deposit is hosted by fine-grained sand and silt of the Pliocene-Pleistocene Berea Red Sands, which acquired a distinctive red coloration from oxidation and degradation of iron-bearing minerals. The geologic evolution of the coastal plain of KwaZulu-Natal can be traced to the Early Cretaceous development of the Mozambique Coastal Plain in response to the break-up of the Gondwana Supercontinent. Episodic sedimentation, eustatic sea levels and reworking of coastal beach and dune sands throughout the late Mesozoic and Cenozoic culminated in the formation of the Berea Red Sands, which host heavy mineral deposits elsewhere on the southeastern coastline of Africa.
During the transition to our Fairbreeze mine, the Empangeni smelter continued to produce titanium slag during 2014 from our internally-sourced ilmenite stockpiled at Namakwa Sands and Empangeni.
Northern Operations, Tronox Western Australia
The integrated supply chain consisting of the Cooljarloo mine, Chandala mineral separation plant and synthetic rutile metallurgical complex, and the Kwinana TiO2 pigment plant were commissioned in 1989.
Our Western Australia mining and mineral tenure, described earlier in this filing, are summarized here in hectares:
Our Cooljarloo mine, approximately 17 km north of the village of Cataby and approximately 170 km north of Perth, has been in continuous production since its start in 1989, producing over 15 million MT of heavy mineral concentrates over its approximate 25-year life. The Cooljarloo HMC is of exceptional quality, containing on average over 75% VHM. The highly-weathered ilmenite at Cooljarloo has been naturally upgraded to a porous, high-TiO2% ilmenite of exceptional performance characteristics in the Becher-process synthetic rutile kiln at Chandala. Multiple grades of leucoxene, zircon, and natural rutile from Chandala are transported to Bunbury or other Western Australia ports for export.
A series of partially overlapping or stacked marine strandlines are the predominant host for economic HM deposits at Cooljarloo that we excavate from two mines:
•Cooljarloo Dredge mine, where two dredges with a combined digging capacity of approximately 3,000 MT per hour pump ore slurry to a common floating primary concentrator, or “wet plant” at a matching capacity of 3,000 tph ore feed; and
•Cooljarloo North mine, a dry mine where a higher-grade ore with thin or no overburden is excavated by a contractor via “dozer trap” mining methods.
Most of the ore bodies at Cooljarloo are at or below the water table and thus permissible for dredge mining. Dredge mining is typically much less expensive on a unit basis than conventional “dry” mining but with less flexibility in terms of selective mining. Two cutter-suction dredges of capacities 2400 tph and 600 tph work in tandem in a common dredge mine pond, feeding a common floating gravity concentrator, or “wet plant,” of synchronized 3000 tph capacity. Overburden at the dredge mine is contract-mined by excavator-and-truck at a overburden-to-mass ratio of 0.3 in our mine plan.
The Cooljarloo dredge mine was commissioned in 1989 with an estimated mine-life of approximately 25 years, and has been in continuous operation since. Since its start, the moving dredge mine pond has traversed approximately 13 kilometers in a reverse J-shaped path. For the past seven years has mined the “gr6” ore body, a single, continuous mineralized sand body elongate about six kilometers in a north-south direction, with a width up to three km and a thickness of 20-25 meters. The ore is easily dredgeable; however it is low-grade. It is interpreted as a composite of at least two separate, reworked marine strandlines at a present elevation of about 70 meters above modern sea level. The deposit narrows to a series of higher-grade strands surrounded by a lower-grade “halo” before its depletion in 2016-2017, at which time the dredge mine progresses northward into multiple new ore bodies of variable geometries and grades. Results from drilling during 2013-2014 and adjustments to the revised LOMP model add approximately 400,000 MT THM to the Cooljarloo reserves, net of 2014 mining depletion.
Improved operating efficiencies have allowed the Cooljarloo mining operations to exploit very low grade dredge-mineable ore, and our current Cooljarloo reserves support a future mine-life of at least 10 years. Mineralization at the adjacent Cooljarloo West project is very similar to that of Cooljarloo, and has been determined to be dredgeable by a detailed evaluation during 2009-2014 that includes over 90,000 meters of new drilling, metallurgical testing and resource-economic modeling. A maiden probable ore reserve of just over 100 million MT containing 2 million MT THM is disclosed in this filing, based on three separate deposits informally named Woolka Road, Kestrel and Harrier. Cooljarloo West can be sequenced into the long-term LOMP after depletion of dredgeable ore at Cooljarloo, for a combined reserve-supported LOM of 14 years. Our future heavy mineral reserve disclosures may combine Cooljarloo West and Cooljarloo.
Cooljarloo is among the largest mines of any kind in Australia. Both mines have independent primary concentrators (“wet plants”), producing a combined average of 600-650 thousand MT per year of HMC. HMC is transported by “road trains” 110 km to the Chandala processing plant near Muchea, 60 km north of Perth, where it is separated into valuable concentrates of rutile, leucoxene and zircon for export and ilmenite feed to our synthetic rutile kiln. Most or all of the Chandala synthetic rutile production capacity of approximately 220,000 MT is consumed by our Kwinana TiO2 pigment plant, 30 km south of Perth. Our 2014 production of commercial heavy minerals totaled 592 thousand MT, of which ilmenite was 74%; rutile and leucoxene - 11%; zircon - 11%; and s - 4%. Synthetic rutile production in 2014 was 217 thousand MT.
 
The table above provides a location map of Tronox Western Australia ore reserves, mining and processing assets, including the Cooljarloo mine, Chandala processing plant and Kwinana TiO2 pigment plant. Future mines with heavy mineral reserves include dry mining of the Dongara ore body and dredge mining at Cooljarloo West, an extension of our current Cooljarloo mining operations.
A strategic goal for our Western Australia operations, underpinned by our LOMP, is to sustain HMC production and ilmenite feed to the Chandala synthetic rutile plant through the next decade. Our LOMP is basically a road map to guide our resource utilization decision process. Our extensive geologic and analytical database is uploaded to commercial mining software programs (Maptek Vulcan, Easimine) for geostatistical validation and building of a detailed 3D block model of the deposit. The block model is evaluated by an in-house pit optimization process that applies variable sales price assumptions to a range of revenues-to-mining and processing cost ratios. The resulting “what if” options are reviewed in detail by an in-house interdisciplinary team led by our business analyst and mine planning engineer to select a preferred option for exploitation, based on resource management criteria, net present value and earnings before interest and taxes measures. Minor adjustments are made routinely to our Western Australia LOMP, and more thorough, comprehensive re-evaluations are performed at least every few years by a multidisciplinary technical team. Our last comprehensive LOMP review, completed in late 2013, and serves as our current “road map” for future resource development.
Ongoing exploration and detailed evaluation continues at our Dongara project, approximately 20 kilometers southeast of the eponymous coastal town and about 50 km north of the world-class Eneabba HM sands district. Dongara consists of at six or more physically separate HM deposits associated with up to five north-trending marine strandlines of inferred Quaternary age, at elevations between 10 and 50 meters above modern sea level. The Dongara strands tend to be narrow and high-grade with halos of lower-grade material, and overlain by variable thicknesses of overburden. Our proven reserves of 65 million MT at 5.1% THM are determined from the results of a feasibility study completed in 2013 for sequenced exploitation from five open cut mines. HMC from Dongara would be truck-hauled 230 kilometers to the Chandala processing plant. Continued evaluation of Dongara will include a conceptual dry-dredge mining combination. The currently-stated reserves are based solely on the dry mining studies.
The Cooljarloo district lies within a corridor several kilometers wide of sub-parallel mineralized marine strandlines, extending from the village of Cataby nearly continuously 40 kilometers north-northwest. Cooljarloo is currently the only active heavy mineral mine of significance in the northern Swan Coastal Plain, where 15-20% of the global titanium feedstock historically has been produced from large mining complexes at Eneabba (Iluka and predecessors, 1974-present) and Cooljarloo (Tronox and predecessors, 1989-present) and smaller mines at Jurien (WMC, 1972-1974, now owned by Tronox) and Gingin (Iluka, 2005-2009). Significant deposits
of HM in the region are hosted by paleo-strandlines and paleo-dune fields at elevations ranging from 20 to 170 meters above the modern sea level. The northern Swan Coastal Plain deposits are commonly associated with the Gingin Scarp, a wave-cut escarpment at the eastern margin of the Swan Coastal Plain, which exerted a major control on their formation, along with river and stream discharge locales and - especially at Eneabba - J-shaped coastline embayments.
Item 3.