Item 2. Properties
Below are our offices and facilities at December 31, 2013. We believe our properties are in good operating condition, and are well maintained. Pursuant to separate financing agreements, substantially all of our U.S. properties are pledged or encumbered to support or otherwise provide the security for our indebtedness.
Corporate and Other
At December 31, 2013, our corporate and other offices consisted of the following:
In addition, corporate and other includes two electrolytic manufacturing and distribution facilities located in Henderson, Nevada and Hamilton, Mississippi.
Mineral Sands
We lease 25,892 square feet located at 115 West Street, Sandton, South Africa for our Mineral Sands division management offices.
Our KwaZulu-Natal (“KZN”) Sands operations include the Hillendale mine (which ceased mining operations in December 2013), the Fairbreeze mine, a wet plant, and the central processing complex in Empangeni. The central processing complex includes a mineral separation plant and two smelters.
Our Namakwa Sands operations include the Namakwa Sands mine, a primary concentration plant (which produces a mineral concentrate), a secondary concentration plant (which yields a magnetic and non-magnetic stream), a separation plant (where the minerals in the streams are separated to produce zircon, rutile and ilmenite), and two smelters (where the ilmenite is processed into furnaces to produce titanium dioxide slag and pig iron).
Our Western Australia operations consist of the Cooljarloo Sands mine and the Chandala complex. The Chandala complex includes a dry mill (which separates the minerals), a synthetic rutile plant (which upgrades ilmenite into high quality synthetic rutile), and a residual management plant.
Pigment
We own 110,781 square feet at 3301 NW 150th Street, Oklahoma City, Oklahoma, which is used for our Pigment segment management offices and research and development, and is shared with certain corporate services.
Our pigment facilities consist of the physical assets necessary and appropriate to produce, distribute and supply our TiO2, and consist mainly of manufacturing and distribution facilities. The following table summarizes our TiO2 production facilities and production capacity (in gross metric tons per year), by location:
Mineral Sands Licenses and Leases
In 2013, we mined valuable heavy minerals (“VHM”), including ilmenite, rutile, leucoxene, and zircon, at three separate locations; Namakwa Sands and KZN Sands (where our Hillendale mining operations ceased in December 2013) in South Africa, and Cooljarloo in Western Australia. Our three mining operations and their integrated mineral processing facilities have two principal commercial product lines: titanium feedstocks and zircon. Our titanium feedstocks include titanium oxide minerals such as ilmenite, natural rutile, and leucoxene, as well as two upgraded titanium products titanium, slag and synthetic rutile. Zircon is a zirconium silicate mineral with a diverse construction and industrial applications. The individual titanium minerals and zircon each have distinct commercial markets, and may be sold as mineral concentrates, slag or synthetic rutile; however, more than 90% of titanium raw materials are consumed in the production of titanium dioxide.
A diagram of our heavy mineral sand mining and processing-TiO2 pigment value chain is as follows:
We market our titanium feedstocks to external customers; however a significant portion of our production is consumed internally. Most of the ilmenite mined at Namakwa Sands and KZN Sands is the feedstock for titanium slag production in South Africa, and ilmenite from Western Australia is internally consumed as synthetic rutile feed at our Chandala complex. The synthetic rutile product from our Chandala complex is either consumed at our TiO2 pigment plant in Kwinana or sold externally.
We comply with SEC Industry Guide 7, which requires us to control sufficient mineral title to have access rights for exploration, development and extraction of the minerals at the time that the determination of reserves is made. Any information that materially affects the risks associated with mineral exploitation is publicly disclosed.
Our exploration and mining activities in South Africa and Australia are governed by the legal and regulatory framework of the respective national, state, or provincial authorities. Mining applications in both countries are subject to multiple levels of review, including extensive public comment, before mineral title is granted, and are subject to environmental approvals.
Mineral Tenure-South Africa
Our South African mining rights secure our legal rights to exploit the heavy mineral reserves at Namakwa, Hillendale (mining operations ceased in December 2013), and Fairbreeze, and to explore for heavy minerals (“HM”) elsewhere in South Africa. Mineral exploration and development in South Africa is regulated by the Minerals and Petroleum Resources Development Act No. 28 (the “MPRDA”), which was implemented in May 2004. The MPRDA is regulated through the Department of Mineral Resources (the “DMR”), and establishes the State of South Africa as the custodian of all mineral resources, and effectively transfers privately owned mineral rights to the state. Owners and grantees of mineral rights were required to apply to the DMR for New Order Mining Rights over the previously held mineral tenements. All of our old order mining rights have been successfully converted to New Order Mining Rights, in accordance with the MPRDA.
Other South African statutes establishing government authority over mining-related activities include: the National Environmental Management Act #107 (NEMA), the National Water Act #36 (NWA), the Mine Health and Safety Act, and the Mining Titles Registration Amendment. In addition to the DMR, other relevant regulatory bodies include the South African Department of Environmental Affairs at the National level and provincial-level authorities, such as the Western Cape Department of Environmental Affairs, and Development Planning and the KwaZulu-Natal Department of Environmental Affairs. Access and use authorizations for
mining and mining-related activities in South Africa may be independent of surface rights, and land-use rentals and access rights agreements may be required in some cases.
The existing mining rights at Namakwa Sands and KZN Sands were ceded in 2008 by Anglo Operations Ltd, a unit of Anglo American plc, to Exxaro Resources Ltd. (“Exxaro”). Subsequent to the Transaction (see Item 1. Business), the Namakwa mining rights are legally owned by Tronox Mineral Sands (Pty) Ltd, a subsidiary of Tronox Limited. Under the Black Economic Empowerment legislation, our ownership of Tronox Mineral Sands is limited to 74%, with Exxaro owning the remaining 26%.
Old order mining rights that have been converted to new order mining rights at Namakwa cover over 13,000 hectares, including the Rietfontein, Hartebeeste Kom, Graauwduinen, Houtkraal, Goeraap and other mining rights. Several other mining and/or prospecting rights, land-use authorizations and appropriate permits are granted at various other locations in South Africa. Renewal of mining rights is permissible for terms of up to 30 years, subject to compliance with the MPRDA.
Heavy mineral production at the now-depleted Hillendale mine will be replaced by production from the Fairbreeze mine, where we control over 4,000 hectares of new mining rights. New order mining rights executed in September 2009 are valid through 2039 for the Fairbreeze C Extension deposit and through 2035 for the Fairbreeze A, B, C, and D deposits. The Hillendale mining rights are valid through 2035; however, following the exhaustion of Hillendale reserves, applications for closure certification will be filed.
In September 2013, the South African Department of Water Affairs (the “DWA”) issued an Integrated Water Use License for an area covering the Fairbreeze mining operations. Construction activities on these areas commenced soon after receipt of this license. Subsequently, the Mtunzini Conservancy (the “Conservancy”) lodged an appeal against the DWA, alleging textual and interpretative irregularities with the license conditions. In response, the appeals lodgment automatically suspended the license and, as a result, all construction activities were suspended. On February 5 2014, the DWA approved our request to lift the suspension and we intend to continue with planned early works construction activities pending the appeal. The appeal process makes provision for the appeal to be adjudicated by the Water Tribunal, which is a quasi-judicial body of government; however the legal appointment term of the tribunal ended in 2012 and to date, this body has not been reconstituted and the appeal process has not been amended. In order to address the appeal in the meantime, Tronox, with the DWA and the Conservancy have agreed to participate in a mediation process.
Mineral Tenure-Australia
Western Australia mineral tenure is administered by the Western Australia Department of Mines and Petroleum under the Mining Act 1978, which contains provisions for a variety of tenement categories that include prospecting, exploration, retention, and mining. Our Cooljarloo mining operations are authorized by State Agreement MSA 268, covering 9,745 hectares, ratified by the Western Australia Parliament, the Mineral Sands (Cooljarloo) Mining and Processing Agreement Act of 1988. State Agreements specify the rights, obligations, terms and conditions for the development of major resources projects, and establish a framework for ongoing relations and cooperation between the state and the proponent of the project.
Twenty mining leases, covering 17,890 hectares over the Dongara deposits have been granted to us by the State of Western Australia, and are pending approvals from federal agencies. Six of the mining licenses overlie reserves declared in the tables below, based on a positive definitive feasibility study (“DFS”).
Three mining leases cover 2,056 hectares at the Jurien deposit, where historic HM mining was conducted by others as recently as 1994. No reserves are reported for the Jurien deposit, which is under a comprehensive re-evaluation following completion of a 5,080-meter drilling program in 2013. We have active exploration projects on six of eleven exploration licenses in proximity to the Cooljarloo mine; however, there is no assurance that any of the exploration projects will generate new reserves or be developed for mining.
Reporting of Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources
The HM reserve estimates reported below are compiled from Mineral Resource and Ore Reserve Statements (“RR Statements”) prepared annually by mineral resource professionals in South Africa and Australia to reflect the estimated mineral resources and reserves as of December 1, 2013.
Our mineral reserve estimates are guided by the mineral resource reporting standards of the South African Code for Reporting of Exploration Results, Mineral Resources and Mineral Reserves, 2007 version, as amended 2009 (“SAMREC”), and the Joint Ore Reserves Committee of The Australian Institute of Mining and Metallurgy (2012) (“JORC”). SAMREC and JORC are two standards within an international family of mineral resource codes designed to ensure data validity, standardize methodologies for estimating the size and grades of mineral deposits, guide classifications of mineral resources and reserves, and enhance the transparency of mineral resource disclosures. Our annual Mineral Resources and Reserves Statements are generated and authorized by experienced Tronox resource professionals who integrate inputs from a wide range of disciplines, and are routinely audited by external consultants.
Individuals responsible for our estimates of ore reserves are certified by the organizations that administer their respective codes and are subject to censure if they are found to be in violation of the reporting guidelines.
As discussed above, U.S. registrants are required to report ore reserves under SEC Industry Guide 7 standards. SEC Industry Guide 7 differs from the SAMREC and JORC codes, but the methodologies for determination of mineral reserves, or “ore reserves,” are essentially equivalent to the methodologies endorsed under the SAMREC and JORC codes. Therefore, the Proven and Probable HM reserves stated in the table below are unmodified from the Proved and Probable HM reserves declared in the Mineral Resources and Reserves Statements submitted by our South African and Australian mines. Under SEC Industry Guide 7, SAMREC and JORC, Proven (or “Proved”) reserves are the highest category of ore reserve estimates, whereby the quantity and quality have been computed from detailed sampling, while Probable reserves provide lower geologic assurance.
The estimated reserves reported by Tronox are in situ, or in-place, bodies of economically and legally extractable mineralized material as of December 31, 2013. Block modeling software and techniques differ by mining operation, but the basic approach includes validation of digitized drilling data, statistical interpolations of spatial data to create “wireframe” representations of mineral deposit geometry and dimensions, followed by resource modeling that divides the deposit into a myriad of individual cells and sub-cells for further evaluation. Most of our mineral sands operations utilize multiple software programs for resource and mine modeling that have been adapted to the particular geologic, mineralization and mining characteristics of their ore deposits. A defined set of realistically assumed “modifying factors” are required under both SAMREC and JORC for the conversion of mineral resources to ore reserves, including mining dilution, mining and metallurgical recovery, economic, marketing, legal, environmental, infrastructure, social, and governmental factors. These modifying factors are equally applicable to classifications of ore reserves under SEC Industry Guide 7, which defines an ore reserve as “that part of a mineral deposit which can be economically and legally extracted or produced at the time of the reserve determination.”
The reported reserves are included in a base case scenario for their exploitation, termed a life-of-mine plan (“LoMP”). A LoMP is maintained for each of our three active mining operations and routinely reviewed by professionals from a range of disciplines to ensure their validity, and the mining plans are linked to the Tronox internal mining-ilmenite beneficiation-TiO2 pigment manufacturing and marketing value chain. The LoMP are used for long-term, strategic planning and are influenced by logical mine design and economic parameters. Therefore, the LoMP include both our disclosed ore reserves as well as some portion of high-quality mineralization that has not been converted to reserves. Mine modeling imposes practical excavation boundaries for the mining methods employed, and the modified volumes and grades are applied during the conversion of resources to reserves. Extraction boundaries and production schedule scenarios are derived from models for which realistic assumptions and estimates have been applied and interpreted by our mining staffs to have reasonable prospects for economic extraction. The modifying factors and other parameters are fluid, and there is no assurance of future economic viability, or that the material in our LoMP will ever be mined. Once the mineralized material is placed into the LoMP, the tonnages envisaged to be mined (“run-of-mine”) may include dilution from a relatively small volume of poorly mineralized material, if its inclusion is necessary or practical to satisfy mine engineering parameters. Our dilution factors are negligible for dry mines but approximately 5% for dredge mining, which has lower unit costs but is less selective. Dilution factors are independent from overburden or internal waste removal and handling, costs for which, if applicable, are factored into the economic block models. Our “nominal” cut-off grades are included in the notations in the reserves table below, in the interest of transparency and to satisfy resource and reserves reporting requirements. The cut-off-grades disclosed may not, however, reflect the actual ore extraction boundaries at the time of exploitation.
Our reserve estimates and each LoMP are underpinned by 3-D resource block models that incorporate geospatial data such as heavy mineral grades and distributions, geological domains, and geostatistical validation. The resource models are integrated with economic modeling that involves mine scheduling, engineering parameters, removal of overburden (if present), tailings management, internal transportation, environmental management, and rehabilitation. The economic modeling determines extraction boundaries based on positive future cash flows from commercial minerals (zircon, rutile, leucoxene, non-integrated ilmenite) and upgraded ilmenite products (Ti-slag, synthetic rutile, pig iron), net of mining and processing costs. Marketing assumptions allow for our internal consumption of TiO2 feedstocks, and future sales prices for mineral products. Mining cost assumptions are based on operating expenses for comparable extraction methods at our operating mines and heavy mineral processing experience at our three mine support products facilities and costs for conversion of ilmenite to slag and pig iron in South Africa and to synthetic rutile in Western Australia.
Commercial sales of our mineral concentrates and processed mineral products are sold under long-term and short-term private contracts, the terms of which are confidential. The TiO2 industry is an oligopolistic market, and a public disclosure of contractual unit prices could be detrimental to our relationships with our customers. We do not believe that historic sales prices are reliable indicators for future prices, and we apply forward-looking sales price assumptions based on our long-term contract prices, internal market intelligence, and forecasts by independent industry research consultancies such as TZ Minerals International Pty Ltd (“TZMI”).
Mineral Reserves
At December 31, 2013, our total HM reserves were approximately 1.14 billion metric tons (“MT”) of ore containing an in-place estimate of approximately 69 million MT contained heavy minerals. Based on average total HM assemblage data, the in-place reserves contain approximately 31 million MT of ilmenite, approximately 5 million MT of combined rutile and leucoxene, and approximately 6 million MT of zircon, for a total VHM content of approximately 42 million MT.
Reported reserve estimates in the table below are in-place portions of inventories of mineralized material that have been previously classified as Measured Resources or Indicated Resources under the SAMREC or JORC codes. Valuable heavy minerals are reported as in situ, unadjusted for mining and processing recovery factors.
Reported reserve estimates in the table below are in-place portions of inventories of mineralized material that have been previously classified as Measured Resources or Indicated Resources under the SAMREC or JORC codes. Valuable heavy minerals in the table below (ilmenite, rutile, leucoxene and zircon) are reflected as percentages of total HM, and are reported as in situ, unadjusted for mining and processing recovery factors. Minor quantities of heavy mineral byproducts other than titanium minerals or zircon are intermittently sold but are immaterial to the reserves and future revenues.
(1) Open Cut (“OC”) is a surface mining technique of extracting rock minerals from the earth by their removal from an open pit.
(2) Life-of-Mine (“LoM”) refers to estimated years of mine life under assumed operating rates and mine design. LoM estimates are part of a strategic Life-of-Mine Plan (“LoMP”) and include both ore reserves, as well as non-reserve material with reasonable prospects for economic exploitation.
(3) Changes greater than 10% from our December 31, 2012 reserves statement are as follows:
A. Revised resource and mining models for inclusion of Orange Feldspathic Sand (“OFS”) ore at the Namakwa Sands East mine resulted in the conversion of approximately 250 million MT to ore reserve classifications.
B. Revised modeling of the Fairbreeze mine, which effectively lowered the nominal cut-off grade from 2.0% ilmenite to 1.5% ilmenite, increasing contained THM reserves by approximately 2 million MT. The Hillendale mine ceased mining operations as of December 2013, and depletion of 154,000 MT of HM at Hillendale are reflected in 2013-2012 change in Total South Africa THM reserves.
C. Mining depletion accounts for a decrease of 568,000 MT of HM from the Cooljarloo reserves in 2013. Probable reserves of approximately 1.2 million MT of HM previously reported for Jurien, Western Australia have been removed from our December 31, 2013 reserves statement, pending revision of the Jurien resource model with results from a 2013 drilling program.
Recoveries of in-place VHM are never 100%, but we strive to make every reasonable effort to optimize the efficiencies of our mineral separation processes. Mining recoveries are generally very high, approaching 100%. Recovery factors of valuable heavy
minerals vary according to the characteristics of ore, heavy mineral assemblages and amenability of the individual valuable heavy minerals to physical separation techniques, and their cumulative metallurgical recoveries, from primary concentration through the respective mineral separation plants range from below 65% to above 92%.
Cut-off grades are not strictly applied to reserve estimates, as economic determinations are made from detailed block modeling. Approximate, nominal cut-off grades are: KZN Sands -1.5% ilmenite; Namakwa-0.2% zircon; Cooljarloo-1.3% THM; and Dongara - up to 2% THM. Cutoff grades vary locally according to VHM assemblage, overburden or other waste removal and many other parameters.
The following table compares the HM reserves at December 31, 2013, 2012, and 2011. Reserves formerly owned by Exxaro prior to the Transaction are included at 100%.
Our three mining operations maintain active HM exploration programs, emphasizing the identification of new reserves to extend the lives or improve the output of our currently active mines. Mineralized material is identified at all three areas and classified under the respective mineral resource reporting standards of SAMREC or JORC as “inferred,” “indicated,” or “measured” resources. There is no assurance, however, that any of these resources will ever be exploited, and disclosure of any non-reserves material is not included in this filing.
HM and upgraded TiO2 feedstock production during 2013 (in thousands of MT) was as follows:
(1) Total ilmenite, including ilmenite internally integrated with slag and synthetic rutile.
(2) “Other” includes staurolite, activated carbon and slag fines.
Heavy Mineral Deposit Geology and Mining Operations
Deposits of heavy mineral sands are concentrations of abrasion-resistant sand of high density (conventionally above 2.9 gm/cm3) that are commercial sources of titanium, zirconium, rare earths, chromium, garnet, magnetite, niobium-tantalum, thorium, tungsten, and gemstones. Heavy mineral sand deposits containing commercial quantities and concentrations of titanium oxide minerals, ilmenite, rutile, and zircon are a distinct class of ore deposit, inclusive of all ore deposits currently mined or contemplated for mining.
Our mineral sands mining operations are situated on three coastal plains: the Western Coastal Plain of South Africa bordering the Atlantic Ocean (Namakwa Sands); the narrow Eastern Coastal Plain bordering the Indian Ocean (KZN Sands); and the Indian Ocean of Western Australia. Our heavy mineral deposits reflect the accessory mineralogy of their respective bedrock provenances: Namaqualand Metamorphic Complex (Namakwa Sands); Natal Metamorphic Complex and Kaapvaal Craton (KZN Sands); and Yilgarn Craton (Western Australia).
Namakwa Sands, Western Cape, South Africa
Tronox Namakwa Sands extracts HM from two open-cut mines on the semi-arid Atlantic coastal plain (Namaqualand Coastal Plain) near Brand se Baai, 92 kilometers northwest of Vredendal and approximately 380 kilometers north of Cape Town in the Western Cape Province, South Africa. The integrated mine-mineral separation-smelting operation originally commissioned by Anglo American in 1993-1994 was acquired by Exxaro Resources Ltd in 2007 and is now 74% owned by Tronox. Past mining plus current reserves total approximately 1 billion MT of ore, with over 30 years remaining in the life-of-mine plan.
The Namakwa West mine involves stripping of near-surface Red Aeolian Sand (“RAS”) ore, followed by dry mining of the deeper, internally-variable “Orange Feldspathic Sand.” The Namakwa East mine is a relatively shallow strip mine exclusively in the RAS ore. Current mine production combined from the West and East mines exceeds 20 million MT per annum with the West mining rate about twice that of the East mine.
The Namakwa HM reserves are hosted by paleo-dune sands and underlying, younger strandline HM placers. The general dimensions of the overall Namakwa deposit are approximately 15 kilometers in a northeasterly direction, with a width of up to four kilometers and variable thicknesses of mineralization. The bulk of the Namakwa HM reserves are hosted by a compound paleo-dune complex composed of unconsolidated sand that was re-worked from a massive amount of sediment eroded primarily from the granulite gneiss of the Namaqualand Metamorphic Complex, which bounds the southern margin of the Kaapvaal Craton. “Granulite” refers to extreme temperatures and pressures during metamorphism, resulting in extensive recrystallization of the original rock chemistry that at Namakwa results in a diverse assemblage of HM. The HM and their host sediments were repetitively weathered out of the source rocks, transported by fluvial systems to the coast, then concentrated along marine strandlines that favored northwest-facing J-shaped bays. A minor portion of the Namakwa deposit consists of ancient shoreline heavy mineral placers, but the bulk of the deposit accumulated in a large, heavy mineral-enriched aeolian dune complex.
The bulk of the ore mined at Namakwa Sands is from a thick accumulation of orange-yellow terrestrial facies sand known as the “Orange Feldspathic Sand” (“OFS”), in a 14 x 4 kilometer zone elongate in a northeast direction from the modern Atlantic Coast. The OFS is arbitrarily subdivided into two economic domains separated by the bitumen road that separates the West and East ore bodies. The heavy mineral assemblage in the OFS is diverse and variable, with a significant percentage of non-VHM at a deposit-wide VHM: THM average of about 51:49. Total HM grades tend to be higher toward the base of the OFS, but the mineralized section matures upward with a higher VHM to THM ratio.
Ore is determined by overall VHM grades and high ratios of zircon, and the OFS is divided in the Namakwa resource model into three sub-units based on zircon grades and continuity. Mining conditions in the OFS are adversely affected by discontinuous layers of interstitial cement from silica, calcium and/or magnesium, or “duripan.” The duripan layers, including a single, relatively continuous layer termed “Dorbank,” are interpreted as paleosols or interstitial precipitates at various depths from alkali-saturated ground water, facilitated by microbial activity.
The RAS overlies the OFS, to which it is subordinate in volume, but is significantly mineralized. The RAS forms a sheet-like layer of aeolian sand over an approximate area of 17,000 hectares (42,000 acres), interpreted as a complex of multiple strand line deposits and a backshore dune field. It is characterized by relatively high heavy mineral grades, but with wide VHM:THM variations.
The RAS is currently the only ore unit mined in the East mine, but the LoMP involves a transition from RAS mining to OFS mining in the East mine. The combined thickness of RAS and OFS mineralization reaches up to 40 meters.
Additional heavy mineral concentrations in modern strandlines and foredunes are termed Recent Emergent Terraces (“RET”). Mineralized RET and OFS within 300-500 meters of high-tide are excluded from the Namakwa HM reserves, as they currently fall within an environmental exclusion zone.
Composition of VHM at Namakwa is heterogeneous and complex, and the diversity of both VHM and non-VHM is a challenge to efficient mineral separation. The non-valuable HM fraction is dominated by garnet and pyroxene, with accessory kyanite, monazite, magnetite, hematite, chromite, corundum, cassiterite, hornblende, marcasite, Ce-florencite, baddeyellite, rhodonite, tourmaline, staurolite, spinel, and titanite. Namakwa ilmenite exhibits a range of titanium to iron ratios that reflect the original variability in titanium-iron oxide HM derived from the basement source rocks.
KZN Sands, KwaZulu-Natal Province, Republic of South Africa
KZN Sands operations include the now-depleted Hillendale mine and the future Fairbreeze mine, currently under construction, 20 kilometers and 45 kilometers, respectively, southwest of Richards Bay, KwaZulu-Natal Province, South Africa. HMC from the future Fairbreeze mine will be trucked approximately 40 kilometers to the Empangeni mineral processing facility, which consists of a mineral separation plant for concentration of ilmenite, rutile and zircon, and a dual electric-arc furnace smelter for production of titanium slag and pig iron from ilmenite.
Hydraulic mining techniques employed successfully at the Hillendale mine will be used at Fairbreeze to disaggregate the ore via high-pressure hydraulic mining into a sump from which the ore slurry is pumped to a nearby land-based primary wet plant for heavy mineral concentration. HMC is de-watered by hydrocyclones prior to transport to Empangeni, where dry magnetic, electrostatic and wet gravity separation techniques will be used to produce zircon and high-TiO2 mineral concentrates, at full annual capacities of approximately 60,000 MT zircon, 30,000 MT rutile plus leucoxene, and 600,000 MT ilmenite smelter feed.
Like elsewhere on the eastern coast of South Africa, crude ilmenite concentrate from KZN Sands contains discrete grains of chromite inherited from volcanic rocks of the Karoo system. The chromite is removed from the ilmenite process stream by roasting and magnetic separation, and the ilmenite is then fed to two 36MW DC-electric arc furnaces at the Empangeni smelter. The Empangeni furnaces, commissioned in 2003-2004 by Ticor SA, a predecessor company to Exxaro Resources, are of a novel design in the titanium industry. The capacity of the Empangeni smelter at full output is approximately 220,000 MT slag and 120,000 MT low-manganese pig iron (LMPI).
The paleo-dunes that host KZN Sands’ mineral reserves are part of a Pliocene-Pleistocene-Holocene “dune corridor” developed along the Natal coastline. Local modifications from tectonic uplift, repetitive sediment deposition and erosion cycles, and eustatic sea levels have shaped the modern coastline.
The Fairbreeze heavy mineral sand deposits are hosted by a NNE-trending compound strandline/paleo-dune complex approximately two kilometers inland from the modern coastline, extending southward for about 10 kilometers from the town of Mtunzini. The deposit is hosted by fine-grained sand and silt of the Pliocene Berea Red Sands, which acquired a distinctive red coloration from oxidation and degradation of iron-bearing minerals.
Dissection of the Fairbreeze dune topography by local rivers and streams has led to division of the deposit into five discrete bodies, mapped as Fairbreeze A, B, C, C-Extension and D. The Fairbreeze heavy mineral grades average above 5% THM, of which VHM is above 60%. Fairbreeze grades are somewhat more heterogeneous than at Hillendale.
Ilmenite in the heavy mineral sand deposits of the Richards Bay region of KwaZulu-Natal is believed to have been derived from basement source rocks of the Kaapvaal Craton, the Natal Metamorphic Province and the Karoo volcanic rocks of Mozambique and South Africa. Rutile and zircon are primarily liberated from the Natal Metamorphic Province. Titanium-iron oxide minerals, including ilmenite of variable chemical composition, magnetite, and hematite occur in basement rocks and younger sedimentary sequences, suggesting a complicated history of erosion, transport and selective sorting.
KZN Sands Fairbreeze Heavy Mineral Sand Deposit and Infrastructure
Northern Operations, Tronox Western Australia
The Cooljarloo mine, which commenced mining in 1989, is approximately 17 kilometers north of Cataby and approximately 170 kilometers north of Perth, Western Australia. HM concentrates from Cooljarloo are transported by truck to a metallurgical complex at Chandala. The combined mining-mineral processing at Cooljarloo and Chandala are the “Northern Operations” component of an integrated mine-to-pigment supply chain that includes our TiO2 pigment plant at Kwinana, an industrial port city south of Perth. Synthetic rutile is the primary feedstock to the Kwinana pigment plant. Excess high-grade TiO2 feedstock can be stockpiled at Kwinana or exported, either to other Tronox pigment manufacturing facilities or to external customers. Zircon and titanium concentrates are exported from bulk terminals at Kwinana, Bunbury, or other ports in Western Australia.
Both dredge and dry mining methods are used to extract more than 20 million MT of ore per year from a mining lease covering over 9,700 hectares. Approximately 15 million MT of heavy mineral concentrates have been produced from the Cooljarloo mine, which is expected to be decommissioned around 2025-2030. The dredge, or “south” mine consists of two floating dredges of approximate capacities of 1800 and 350 MT per hour, respectively, that are connected to a common floating “wet plant,” from which gravity-separated heavy mineral concentrates (HMC) are pumped to a stockpile for truck transport to Chandala. Overburden from the dredge mine is mined by a contractor and stockpiled for use in our rehabilitation program. Cooljarloo “North” is a dry mine from which mining scrapers excavate and transport ore to a land-based primary concentration plant to produce HMC.
A site-wide expansion was implemented in 2012 to offset decreasing ore grades at Cooljarloo, where combined ore mining capacity is now approximately 3500 MT per hour. A strategic goal for Tronox Western Australia is to sustain HMC production and ilmenite feed to the Chandala SR plant beyond 2020. An exploration program has been active for several years in the vicinity of the Cooljarloo mine to identify either higher-grade, dry mineable deposits or larger, dredgeable deposits. A dry mining definitive feasibility study has been completed at the Dongara project, approximately 150 kilometers north of the Cooljarloo mining complex. The approximately 3.3 million MT of in situ heavy mineral reserves at Dongara are included in five separate Quaternary-age strandline HM deposits elongated in a north-northwesterly direction. Tronox intends to systematically develop Dongara as Cooljarloo ore is progressively depleted from 2015 onward.
The Chandala mineral separation plant has a capacity of approximately 750,000 MT per year HMC feed. The single kiln SR facility at the Chandala metallurgical complex has a current capacity of 225,000 MT per year SR, and an expansion to approximately 282,000 MT per year is under review. Cooljarloo HMC feed is of exceptional quality, with more than 75% VHM on average, and an ilmenite averaging over 60% TiO2 and other characteristics that make it an ideal feedstock to the Becher-SR process employed at
Chandala. Natural rutile, two grades of leucoxene, and two grades of zircon are produced at Chandala are transported to Bunbury or other Western Australia ports for export.
Our current annual product range in Western Australia includes: over 400,000 MT of ilmenite; 35,000 MT of rutile; 20,000 MT of leucoxene; 55,000 MT of zircon; 10,000 MT of staurolite; 225,000 MT of synthetic rutile; 18,000 MT of activated carbon (a by-product of synthetic rutile production); and, 135,000 MT of TiO2 pigment.
The Cooljarloo heavy mineral district is located on the northern Swan Coastal Plain 160-200 kilometers north of Perth. The district includes the Cooljarloo HMS mine, the Jurien HM property and several active exploration projects operated by Tronox and others to the north, south, and west of the current Cooljarloo mine. The Perth Basin is a deep trough nearly 1,000 kilometers long that averages about 65 kilometers in width, filled with sedimentary rocks. The total thickness of the Phanerozoic succession may exceed 15,000 meters. The eastern margin of the Perth Basin is bounded over most of its length by the Darling Fault, which represents the eastern edge of a rift zone that facilitated the separation of India from Australia during the break-up of Gondwana, the pre-historic super-continent. The fault separates the Yilgarn Block on the east from the Perth Basin on the west, where nearly continuous sedimentation from the Jurassic Period onward filled the rift. The Swan Coastal Plain in the Cooljarloo area is a narrow strip about 25 kilometers between the modern coastline and the Gingin Scarp, a regional escarpment in the North Perth Basin.
The general locations for the Cooljarloo and Dongara deposits are shown below:
The Gingin Scarp, like the Darling and Whicher Scarps in the South Perth Basin, was a major control for deposition of heavy mineral-rich near-shore, wave-cut terraces during transgressive, interglacial peaks in the Late Pliocene-Early Pleistocene era. The Cooljarloo deposit spans a 3 to 4 kilometers swath of about 15 northwest-trending, sub-parallel heavy mineral strands over a distance of about 40 kilometers. The HM deposits were concentrated in near-shore and shoreline deposits.
Item 3.