ITEM 2. PROPERTIES.
The Company does not own any property. Our executive offices are located at 23 Frond "K" Palm Jumeirah, Dubai, U.A.E. where we are utilizing approximately 600 square feet of Peter Smith's personal offices in Dubai and pay no rent for such privilege. We also have a satellite office located at 1 Berkeley Street, London W1J 8DJ, United Kingdom, which is a service office for which we pay 350 British Pounds per month on a renewable one year lease. Our Business Development Director, Adrian Scarrott, uses our London office on a daily basis and we use the office when our other management members are in London. We have another satellite office located at Avenida Marques del Duero 67, Edificio Bahia 2A, 29670 San Pedro de Alcantara, Marbella, Spain where we are utilizing approximately 1,100 square feet of Enzo Taddei's personal offices in Marbella and pay no rent for such privilege. Peter J. Smith, our President and Chief Executive Office, is based in Dubai, Enzo Taddei, our Chief Financial Officer, is based in Marbella, Spain, and Adrian Scarrott, our Business Development Director, is based in London, United Kingdom.
ITEM. 3 LEGAL PROCEEDINGS.
We are not subject to any legal proceedings and are not aware of any threatened legal proceedings.
ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES.
Not applicable
PART II
ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES.
MARKET INFORMATION. The Company's Common Stock is not trading on any stock exchange. The Company is not aware of any market activity in its stock since its inception and through the date of this filing. There is no assurance that a trading market will ever develop or, if such a market does develop, that it will continue.
The Securities and Exchange Commission has adopted Rule 15g-9 which establishes the definition of a "penny stock," for purposes relevant to us, as any equity security that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share or with an exercise price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions. For any transaction involving a penny stock, unless exempt, the rules require: (i) that a broker or dealer approve a person's account for transactions in penny stocks and (ii) the broker or dealer receive from the investor a written agreement to the transaction, setting forth the identity and quantity of the penny stock to be purchased. In order to approve a person's account for transactions in penny stocks, the broker or dealer must (i) obtain financial information and investment experience and objectives of the person; and (ii) make a reasonable determination that the transactions in penny stocks are
suitable for that person and that person has sufficient knowledge and experience in financial matters to be capable of evaluating the risks of transactions in penny stocks. The broker or dealer must also deliver, prior to any transaction in a penny stock, a disclosure schedule prepared by the Commission relating to the penny stock market, which, in highlight form, (i) sets forth the basis on which the broker or dealer made the suitability determination and (ii) that the broker or dealer received a signed, written agreement from the investor prior to the transaction. Disclosure also has to be made about the risks of investing in penny stocks in both public offerings and in secondary trading, and about commissions payable to both the broker-dealer and the registered representative, current quotations for the securities and the rights and remedies available to an investor in cases of fraud in penny stock transactions. Finally, monthly statements have to be sent disclosing recent price information for the penny stock held in the account and information on the limited market in penny stocks.
HOLDERS. As of the date of this filing, there were 79 record holders of the 28,780,700 shares of the Company's issued and outstanding Common Stock. The issued and outstanding shares of the Company's common stock were issued in accordance with the exemptions from registration afforded by Section 4(2) and/or Regulation S of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
DIVIDENDS. The Company has not paid any cash dividends to date and does not anticipate or contemplate paying dividends in the foreseeable future. It is the present intention of management to utilize all available funds for the development of the Company's business.
RECENT ISSUANCES OF UNREGISTERED SECURITIES
The Company originally issued to Javan Kasili (a United States citizen) a total of 2,000,000 shares of common stock on October 28, 2010 at $.001 per share (par value) for an aggregate consideration of $2,000.00.
SECURITIES ISSUED BETWEEN NOVEMBER 1, 2010, AND SEPTEMBER 30, 2011 (WITHIN THE ONE-YEAR COMPLIANCE PERIOD APPLICABLE TO NON-REPORTING ISSUERS AS SET FORTH IN CATEGORY 3 OF RULE 903 OF REGULATION S):
Effective November 1, 2010, the Company issued 5,000,000 shares of common stock to Enzo Taddei, an individual (non-"U.S. person" as defined in Rule 902 of Regulation S), for accounting and financial modeling services rendered to Global Equity Partners PLC valued at $5,000. Mr. Taddei became the Chief Financial Officer and a Director of the Company in September 2011.
On November 14, ,2010, the Company issued 1,000,000 shares of common stock to Miss Pilar Tardon, an accountant in Spain, and an individual (non-"U.S. person" as defined in Rule 902 of Regulation S), in exchange for services rendered to the Company valued at $50,000 for introducing us to one of our current clients, Arrow Cars SL.
The Company issued 20,000,000 shares of common stock to Peter Smith (a non-"U.S. person" as defined in Rule 902 of Regulation S) pursuant to a Plan and Agreement of Reorganization dated November 15, 2010, when the Company acquired 100% of the common stock of Global Equity Partners PLC in a private transaction, resulting in Global Equity Partners PLC becoming a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company. Following the closing of this transaction, Peter Smith became our President and Chief Executive Officer and a member of our board of directors.
Effective December 31, 2010, the Company issued 668,000 shares of common stock to seven debt holder (none of whom was a "U.S. person" as defined in Rule 902 of Regulation S), at various negotiated conversion rates ranging from $.36
to $.44 per share, in satisfaction of $263,533.64 in debt owed by the Company, as follows:
The conversion prices of the above concurrent issuances of common stock were the product of negotiations by our management with each creditor. None of the above creditors was a related party or related person to the Company. As a result of our negotiations with the above creditors, no interest was included in the aggregate amounts settled.
Between May 2, 2011, and June 15, 2011, the Company issued a total of 103,100 shares of common stock in a private offering to a total of 27 non-related persons (non-"U.S. persons" as defined in Rule 902 of Regulation S) at $.50 per share for an aggregate consideration of $51,550, as follows:
Name Number of Shares Aggregate Purchase Amount ---- ---------------- ------------------------- Mark Bingham 500 $ 250.00 Margaret Cachart 1,000 $ 500.00 Barry Cotton 500 $ 250.00 Adam Divall 1,000 $ 500.00 Jamie Divall 1,000 $ 500.00 Collin Elliott 500 $ 250.00 Michael Guetjes 500 $ 250.00 Peter Lilley 1,000 $ 500.00 Ian McKenzie 1,000 $ 500.00 Jamie Palacios Vergara 1,000 $ 500.00 Anthony Preece 1,000 $ 500.00 Michael Ricks 500 $ 250.00 Darren Roberts 1,000 $ 500.00 Wayne Roberts 1,000 $ 500.00 Toby Roberts 1,000 $ 500.00 Vicent Samways 2,500 1,250.00 Gary Steel 500 $ 250.00 Jon Stronell 1,000 $ 500.00 Martin Sweeny 500 $ 250.00 Daniel Tovey 2,000 $ 1,000.00 Hayley Wood 1,000 $ 500.00 Caoimhe Lonergan 5,000 $ 2,500.00 Eibhlin Lonergan 5,000 $ 2,500.00 Saoirse Lonergan 5,000 $ 2,500.00
John Lonergan 5,000 $ 2,500.00 Brid Lonergan 20,000 $10,000.00 David Lonergan 43,100 $21,550.00 ------- ---------- TOTALS 103,100 $51,550.00 ======= ==========
On September 23, 2011, the Company issued 9,600 shares of common stock to Samuel James Cameron, an individual (a non-"U.S. person" as defined in Rule 902 of Regulation S), in exchange for marketing consultancy services rendered to the Company valued at $4,800.
SECURITIES ISSUED AFTER THE ONE-YEAR COMPLIANCE PERIOD APPLICABLE TO NON-REPORTING ISSUERS AS SET FORTH IN CATEGORY 3 OF RULE 903 OF REGULATION S):
On November 30, 2011, the Company issued 5,000,000 shares of Series A Preferred Stock (100% of the authorized preferred stock) to our Chief Executive Officer, Peter Smith, for an aggregate consideration of $480,000 as a bonus package equal to 24 months of salary.
The 2,000,000 shares of common stock issued to Javan Kasili and the 5,000,000 shares of Series A Preferred Stock issued to Peter Smith were issued in reliance on the exemption from registration requirements of the 33 Act provided by Section 4(2) of the 33 Act, as the issuance of the stock did not involve a public offering of securities based on the following:
* each investor represented to us that he was acquiring the securities for his own account for investment and not for the account of any other person and not with a view to or for distribution, assignment or resale in connection with any distribution within the meaning of the 33 Act; * we provided each investor with written disclosure prior to sale or transfer that the securities have not been registered under the 33 Act and, therefore, cannot be resold unless they are registered under the 33 Act or unless an exemption from registration is available; * each investor agreed not to sell or otherwise transfer the purchased securities unless they are registered under the 33 Act and any applicable state laws, or an exemption or exemptions from such registration are available; * each investor had knowledge and experience in financial and other business matters such that he was capable of evaluating the merits and risks of an investment in us; * such investor was given information and access to all of our documents, records, books, officers and directors, our executive offices pertaining to the investment and was provided the opportunity to ask questions and receive answers regarding the terms and conditions of the offering and to obtain any additional information that we possesses or were able to acquire without unreasonable effort and expense; * each investor had no need for liquidity in their investment in us and could afford the complete loss of their investment in us; * we did not employ any advertisement, article, notice or other communication published in any newspaper, magazine or similar media or broadcast over television or radio;
* we did not conduct, hold or participate in any seminar or meeting whose attendees had been invited by any general solicitation or general advertising; * we placed a legend on each certificate or other document that evidences the securities stating that the securities have not been registered under the 33 Act and setting forth or referring to the restrictions on transferability and sale of the securities; * no broker-dealer or underwriter was involved in the sale of the shares; and * we added the following legend to the certificates:
"The shares represented by this certificate have been issued to the registered owner in reliance upon written representations that these shares have been taken for investment. These shares have not been registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended ("Act"), and may not be sold, transferred or assigned unless an opinion of counsel satisfactory to the company has been received by the company to the effect that such sale, transfer or assignment will not be in violation of the Act and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder or applicable state securities laws."
All of the other shares described above (except for the 2,000,000 shares of common stock issued to Mr. Javan Kasili and the 5,000,000 shares of Series A Preferred Stock issued to Peter Smith) were issued in reliance on the exemption from registration requirements of the 33 Act provided by Regulation S of the 33 Act, as the issuance of the shares did not involve the sale to any person who was a "U.S. person" (as defined in Rule 902 of Regulation S) and based on the following:
* we did not employ a "distributor" (as defined in Rule 902 of Regulation S); * each investor represented and proved to us that he was not a "U.S. person" (as defined in Rule 902 of Regulation S); * all of the offers and sales were made within the one-year compliance period of Category 3 of Rule 903 of Regulation S, applicable to non-reporting issuers; * each investor represented to us that he was acquiring the securities for his own account for investment and not for the account of any other person and not with a view to or for distribution, assignment or resale in connection with any distribution within the meaning of the 33 Act; * we provided each investor with written disclosure prior to sale or transfer that the securities have not been registered under the 33 Act and, therefore, cannot be resold unless they are registered under the 33 Act or unless an exemption from registration is available; * each investor agreed not to sell or otherwise transfer the purchased securities unless they are registered under the 33 Act and any applicable state laws, or an exemption or exemptions from such registration are available; * each investor had knowledge and experience in financial and other business matters such that he was capable of evaluating the merits and risks of an investment in us;
* such investor was given information and access to all of our documents, records, books, officers and directors, our executive offices pertaining to the investment and was provided the opportunity to ask questions and receive answers regarding the terms and conditions of the offering and to obtain any additional information that we possesses or were able to acquire without unreasonable effort and expense; * each investor had no need for liquidity in their investment in us and could afford the complete loss of their investment in us; * we did not employ any advertisement, article, notice or other communication published in any newspaper, magazine or similar media or broadcast over television or radio; * we did not conduct, hold or participate in any seminar or meeting whose attendees had been invited by any general solicitation or general advertising; * we placed a legend on each certificate or other document that evidences the securities stating that the securities have not been registered under the 33 Act and setting forth or referring to the restrictions on transferability and sale of the securities; * we placed stop transfer instructions in our stock transfer records; * no underwriter was involved in the offering; * we made independent determinations that such person was a sophisticated or accredited investor and that he was capable of analyzing the merits and risks of their investment in us, that he understood the speculative nature of their investment in us and that he could lose their entire investment in us; and * we added the following legend to the certificates:
"The shares represented by this certificate have not been issued to the registered owner in reliance upon written representations that these shares have not been registered under the Securities Act of 1933 ("Act") and are "restricted securities," as defined under Regulation S, and cannot be sold, transferred, assigned or traded in the United States for a period of 12 months from the date of issue and require written release from either the issuing company or their attorney prior to legend removal."
ISSUER REPURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES
None.
ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA.
Not applicable.
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATION.
CAUTIONARY FORWARD - LOOKING STATEMENT
The following discussion should be read in conjunction with our financial statements and related notes.
Certain matters discussed herein may contain forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties. Such risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, the following:
* the volatile and competitive nature of our industry, * the uncertainties surrounding the rapidly evolving markets in which we compete, * the uncertainties surrounding technological change of the industry, * our dependence on its intellectual property rights, * the success of marketing efforts by third parties, * the changing demands of customers and * the arrangements with present and future customers and third parties.
Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize or should any of the underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results of current and future operations may vary materially from those anticipated. SEE ALSO the disclosures under "Cautionary Statement" following the Table of Contents in this Annual Report.
MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
PLAN OF OPERATIONS
We have three distinct divisions within our structure:
1. INTRODUCERS NETWORK: We have developed and continue to develop a number of finance professionals, accountants, attorneys and financial advisers who will introduce us to their clients. We will review businesses introduced to us be these introducers and we will compensate them on some "to be determined" basis in the event that we are engaged by to assist the companies they introduce to us.
2. PROJECT REVIEW: Our management team and advisors will carefully review and vet each business plan and opportunity submitted to us. Our management team and advisors will determine which services we can offer these clients and assess the potential propositions to best assist our clients in achieving their goals.
3. PLACING: Working with our business associates in Frankfurt, London, Miami, New York and Toronto, we will use our best efforts to assist our clients with listings on stock exchanges in these cities in order to maximize their exposure to capital markets and to access funding via debt and equity offerings.
We currently have three clients under contract that are valued at $767,000 in cash fees between 2011 and 2012. In addition, we could earn a 10% equity stake in each of these three clients if we are successful in help them acquire a target company. We cannot determine at this time how much, is anything, these equity stakes would be worth to us or how or at what value we could book such assets.
We anticipate signing up an additional three clients by the end of 2012. We expect the contracts with the three new clients will each provide us with an additional $10,000 to $20,000 per month in revenues. However, we cannot guarantee that we will sign up any new clients in 2012 or receive any revenues from new clients in 2012.
In order to achieve our goal of signing up three new clients in 2012, we are relying on introductions to potential clients by the following firms in Asia and Europe:
1. Merchant House Group (London), a United Kingdom registered investment house.
2. TAP 09 Gmbh, an Austrian management consultancy firm based in Wien, Vienna.
3. Mashreq Bank, an Asian retail bank based in Dubai, U.A.E.
4. ABN Amro Private Bank based in Amsterdam, the Netherlands
We do not have any verbal or written agreements with the four firms identified above, as our relationship with each of them has been developed over the past year or so.
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
RESULTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2011
During 2011, the Company had revenues totaling $288,041, of which 188,041 was comprised entirely of cash received from in from clients: Arrow Cars SL, Black Swan Data Limited and RFC KK; we also received 2,000,000 shares of a private company called Voz Mobile Cloud Ltd value at $100,000.
Our general and administration costs amounted to $889,984, this amounts includes $133,332 of accrued salaries to the officers of the Company and a further $480,000 pay in preferred shares to our CEO, as a bonus. Our legal, accounting and other professional fees amounted to $79,599. We paid $11,000 for business licenses and permits. Additionally, we had travel expenditure, commissions paid to introducers and other miscellaneous operating expenses.
We also accounted for a realized loss due to the impairment of our M1 AG marketable securities; this impairment was for $1,086,160.
The net loss was $(1,688,102) and the unrealized gain on the available for sale marketable securities owned by the Company amounted to $448,924 for 2011; hence the comprehensive loss amounted to $1,239,178 for 2011.
The Company recorded interest income amounting to $690 and paid $500 of interest.
Based on 28,735,897 weighted average shares outstanding for the year ended December 31 2011, the loss per share was $(0.06).
LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESERVES
Through the year ended December 31, 2011 we have relied on advances of $91,723 from loans from shareholders, third party non-affiliates and also the proceeds from stock issued for cash. As of December 31, 2011, the Company had cash of $2,218, a working capital deficit of $(185,123) and a positive balance of $1,024,877 of Shareholders Equity.
Although it is the Company's intention to seek additional debt financing, which we plan to use any additional working capital to implement a marketing program to increase awareness of our business model and also to expand our operations via the acquisition companies that are in a similar space and industry as ours. Any short fall in our projected operating revenues will be covered by:
1) The revenue that will come from the clients that we currently have under contract which valued at $767,000 in cash fees between the years 2011 and 2012.
2) Reducing the compensation paid to our directors and officers.
3) Receiving loans from one or more of our officers even though at the present time, we do not have verbal or written commitments from any of our officers to lend us money.
Depending upon market conditions, the Company may not be successful in raising sufficient additional capital for it to achieve its business objectives.
In such event, the business, prospects, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially adversely affected.
ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURE ABOUT MARKET RISK.
Not applicable.
ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA.
Our financial statements and supplementary data may be found beginning at page.
ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE.
There are not and have not been any disagreements between the Company and its accountants on any matter of accounting principles, practices or financial statement disclosure.
ITEM 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES.
DISCLOSURE CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES
Commencing with our Annual Report for the 2011 fiscal year, we will be required to maintain "disclosure controls and procedures." The term "disclosure controls and procedures," as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended ("Exchange Act"), means controls
and other procedures of a company that are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by the company in the reports it files or submits under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported, within the time periods specified in the Securities and Exchange Commission's rules and forms. Disclosure controls and procedures also include, without limitation, controls and procedures designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by a company in the reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is accumulated and communicated to the company's management, including its principal executive and principal financial officers, or persons performing similar functions, as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.
MANAGEMENT'S REPORT ON INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING
Commencing with our Annual Report for the 2011 fiscal year, our management will be responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting as defined in Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the Exchange Act. Our internal control over financial reporting is designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. Our internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that:
(1) pertain to the maintenance of records that in reasonable detail accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of our assets;
(2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with U.S. GAAP, and that our receipts and expenditures are being made only in accordance with the authorization of our management and directors; and
(3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of our assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
At December 31, 2011, we carried out an evaluation required by Rule 13a-15 or Rule 15d-15 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act") under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our Principal Executive Officer and Principal Financial Officer, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures.
Based upon such evaluation, such person concluded that as of such date, our disclosure controls and procedures were not effective at the reasonable assurance level because, due to financial constraints, the Company does not maintain a sufficient complement of personnel with an appropriate level of technical accounting knowledge, experience and training in the application of generally accepted accounting principles commensurate with our financial accounting and reporting requirements. In the event that we may receive sufficient funds for internal operational purposes, we plan to retain the
services of additional internal management staff to provide assistance to our current management with the monitoring and maintenance of our internal controls and procedures.
This Annual Report does not include an attestation report of the Company's registered public accounting firm due to a transition period established by rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission for newly public companies.
CHANGES IN INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING.
We did not change our internal control over financial reporting during our last fiscal quarter that materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company's internal control over financial reporting.
ITEM 9B. OTHER INFORMATION.
Not applicable.
PART III
ITEM 10. DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE.
OFFICERS AND DIRECTORS
Our two directors will serve until their two successors are elected and qualified. Our officers are elected by the board of directors to a term of one year and serve until their successor is duly elected and qualified, or until they are removed from office. Our board of directors has no nominating, auditing or compensation committees.
The names, addresses, ages and positions of our officers, directors and key employees are set forth below:
First Year Name Age as Director Position ---- --- ----------- -------- Peter James Smith 43 2010 President, Chief Executive Officer and Director
Enzo Taddei 39 2011 Chief Financial Officer, Secretary and Director
The persons named above were elected to hold their offices until the next annual meeting of our stockholders.
PETER JAMES SMITH - PRESIDENT, CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER AND DIRECTOR
Mr. Smith has served as the President, Chief Executive Officer and Director of Global Equity Partners, PLC, our now wholly-owned subsidiary, since its formation on September 2, 2009,. Mr. Smith has also served as the President, Chief Executive Officer and Director of the Company since December 31, 2010. Between June 1, 2006, and September 2, 2009, when he formed Global Equity Partners, PLC, Mr. Smith was not employed and spent his time researching the market for the consulting business in which Global Equity Partners, PLC would be engaged. 2006. In 1993, he created an international financial services company
in the Middle East and Asia, named Belgravia Financial Management, and served as the Chief Executive Officer of that firm until he resigned in May 2006. Between 1993 and May 2005, he built Belgravia Financial Management to 23 global offices, 5 country licenses, a Company with $2.2 billion under financial management. Belgravia Financial Management merged with Interwest SL and became Belgravia Intervest Group Limited. Belgravia Intervest Group Limited subsequently merged with Tally Ho Ventures, Inc. (TLYH.OB) on May 12, 2005. In 2006, Mr. Smith resigned from his position as Chief Executive Officer of Tally Ho Ventures, Inc. Tally Ho Ventures, Inc. subsequently changed it name to Premier Wealth Management, Inc. on September 26, 2007. Mr. Smith first qualified as a stockbroker in London in 1986 with Rensburg and Co. where he became both a registered equity trader and registered representative of the firm that is a UK registered, full service stockbroker trading equities, options, warrants, gilts and bonds. He also spent 12 months within that firm covering the back office facilities of a brokerage house including sales, purchase, rights, dividends and new issues. He then moved on to the London Traded Options Market where he passed his LTOM open outcry examinations to become an options trader for a subsidiary of ABN Amro bank called International Clearing Services (ICS). As an Options trader, his job was to trade options on behalf of all the firm's clients and to hedge the positions of the market makers the firm cleared for in the equity market. As the sole dual qualified broker for ICS, he was constantly trading in either equities or options, either by open outcry or screen dealing on the London Stock Exchange Floor on Threadneedle Street.
ENZO TADDEI - CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER, SECRETARY AND DIRECTOR
Mr. Taddei was appointed as our Chief Financial Officer and a member of our Board of Directors on September 1, 2011. From November 2010 until December 8, 2011, when he resigned from such offices, Mr. Taddei was a member of the Board of Directors and part-time Chief Financial Officer of Networking Partners, Inc., a social networking company. Mr. Taddei resigned from such offices in order to devote more time and effort to our Company. From May 2009 until the present date, Mr. Taddei has served as Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer of E3B Consulting Network SL (a firm engaged in accounting and property management). Mr. Taddei spends only a couple of hours a month on E3B Consulting business. From March 2007 until May 2009, Mr. Taddei served as Chief Financial Officer of Dolphin Digital Media (a company engaged in social networking). From August 2006 until March 2007, Mr. Taddei served as Chief Financial Officer of Plays on the Net PLC (an E Commerce firm). From July 1999 until August 2006, Mr. Taddei served as Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer of Adesso Res Asesores (an accounting firm). In addition to being an accountant and tax consultant by profession, Mr. Taddei is proficient in three languages: English, Spanish and Italian. He obtained a Degree in Economics from the University of Malaga (Spain) in 1998 and also a Bachelor in Business Administration (BBA) from the University of Wales in 1996. He also holds a Masters Degree in Spanish and International Taxation granted to him by EADE University in Malaga (Spain) in 2000.
ADRIAN SCARROTT - BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT DIRECTOR
Adrian Scarrott is an experienced new business development and marketing professional with more than 20-years of experience working with blue chip companies and global brands. Mr. Scarrott has been the Business Development Director of the Company since September 1, 2011. In November 2009, Mr. Scarrott became the Marketing Director of Winkle Media Ltd., a marketing company engaged in television and print production, online production and web based marketing where he worked until joining the Company's as Business Development Director on September 1, 2011. From 2006 to October 2009, Mr. Scarrott was responsible for developing new business and creating opportunities for the new media offerings for Stageone, a multimedia marketing firm in London and Europe. From 2001 to 2006, Mr. Scarrott served as Sales Director for Seven Soho, another London-based marketing firm. Mr. Scarrott's blue chip client base at Seven Soho included Sony, Proctor & Gamble, Apple Mac and United Airlines. Mr. Scarrott began his career in 1991 at Tapestry, a London-based corporate identity firm, where he
served as Sales Director and was responsible for the full management and development of a portfolio of accounts covering all areas of advertising and design, press, outdoor, direct marketing, point of sale marketing, corporate identity, literature and packaging.
INVOLVEMENT IN CERTAIN LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
Except as described below, during the past ten years, no present director, executive officer or person nominated to become a director or an executive officer of the Company:
(1) had a petition under the federal bankruptcy laws or any state insolvency law filed by or against, or a receiver, fiscal agent or similar officer appointed by a court for the business or property of such person, or any partnership in which he was a general partner at or within two years before the time of such filing, or any corporation or business association of which he was an executive officer at or within two years before the time of such filing;
(2) was convicted in a criminal proceeding or subject to a pending criminal proceeding (excluding traffic violations and other minor offenses);
(3) was subject to any order, judgment or decree, not subsequently reversed, suspended or vacated, of any court of competent jurisdiction, permanently or temporarily enjoining him from or otherwise limiting his involvement in any of the following activities:
(i) acting as a futures commission merchant, introducing broker, commodity trading advisor, commodity pool operator, floor broker, leverage transaction merchant, any other person regulated by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, or an associated person of any of the foregoing, or as an investment adviser, underwriter, broker or dealer in securities, or as an affiliated person, director or employee of any investment company, bank, savings and loan association or insurance company, or engaging in or continuing any conduct or practice in connection with such activity;
(ii) engaging in any type of business practice; or
(iii)engaging in any activity in connection with the purchase or sale of any security or commodity or in connection with any violation of federal or state securities laws or federal commodities laws; or
(4) was the subject of any order, judgment or decree, not subsequently reversed, suspended or vacated, of an federal or state authority barring, suspending or otherwise limiting for more than 60 days the right of such person to engage in any activity described in paragraph (3) (i), above, or to be associated with persons engaged in any such activity;
(5) was found by a court of competent jurisdiction in a civil action, the Securities and Exchange Commission to have violated a federal or state securities law, and the judgment in such civil action or finding by the Securities and Exchange Commission has not been subsequently reversed, suspended or vacated;
(6) was found by a court of competent jurisdiction in a civil action or by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission to have violated any Federal commodities law, and the judgment in such civil action or finding by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission has not been subsequently reversed, suspended or vacated;
(7) was the subject of, or a party to, any Federal or State judicial or administrative order, judgment, decree, or finding, not subsequently reversed, suspended or vacated, relating to any alleged violation of:
i. Any Federal or State securities or commodities law or regulation; or
ii. Any law or regulation respecting financial institutions or insurance companies including, but not limited to, a temporary or permanent injunction, order of disgorgement or restitution, civil money penalty or temporary or permanent cease-and-desist order, or removal or prohibition order; or
iii. Any law or regulation prohibiting mail or wire fraud or fraud in connection with any business entity; or
(8) was the subject of, or a party to, any sanction or order, not subsequently reversed, suspended or vacated, of any self-regulatory organization (as defined in Section 3(a)(26) of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(26)), and registered entity (as defined in Section 1(a)(29) of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C.1(a)(29)), or any equivalent exchange, association, entity or organization that has disciplinary authority over its members or persons associated with a member.
ABSENCE OF INDEPENDENT DIRECTORS
We do not have any independent directors and are unlikely to be able to recruit and retain any independent directors due to our small size and limited financial resources.
DIRECTOR QUALIFICATIONS
We do not have a formal policy regarding director qualifications. In the opinion of Peter J. Smith, our President and majority shareholder, both Mr. Taddei and he have sufficient business experience and integrity to carry out the Company's plan of operations. Both Mr. Smith and Mr. Taddei recognize that the Company will have to rely on professional advisors, such as attorneys and accountants with public company experience to assist with compliance with Exchange Act reporting and corporate governance matters.
DIRECTORSHIPS
Enzo Taddei was a director of Networking Partners, Inc., a company with a class of securities registered pursuant to Section 12 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, until his resignation from the Board of Directors of that company on December 8, 2011.
AUDIT COMMITTEE FINANCIAL EXPERT
Although we have not established an Audit Committee, the functions of the Audit Committee are currently carried out by our Board of Directors.
FAMILY RELATIONSHIPS
There are no family relationships between or among or officers and directors.
CODE OF BUSINESS CONDUCT AND ETHICS
On September 2, 2011, we adopted a Code of Business Conduct and Ethics applicable to our officers, including our principal executive officer, principal financial officer, principal accounting officer or controller and any other persons performing similar functions. Our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics was designed to deter wrongdoing and promote honest and ethical conduct, full, fair and accurate disclosure, compliance with laws, prompt internal reporting and accountability to adherence to our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics. Our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics is posted on our website at http://www.globalequityincusa.com/ in the "Governance" section. We also intend to disclose any future amendments to, and any waivers from (though none are anticipated), the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics in the "Governance" section of our website.
ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION.
The following table sets forth the aggregate compensation paid by the Company and/or its subsidiary, GE Partners PLC, to our executive officers and directors of the Company for services rendered during the periods indicated (from inception of Global Equity Partners PLC on September 2, 2009, through December 31, 2011. Pino Baldassarre resigned from the office of Corporate Secretary on March 9, 2012.
SUMMARY COMPENSATION TABLE
---------- (1) Represents $49,959 paid in cash and $80,000 in accrued, but unpaid salary. (2) Represents the value of 5,000,000 shares of Series A Preferred Stock (100% of the authorized preferred stock) issued to Peter Smith as a bonus package. Our Board of Directors recognized the hard and fruitful work of Mr. Smith for the past three years and decided to compensate him with a bonus equivalent to two years of gross salary. Since the Company did not have the cash resources to pay such bonus, it decided to issue him preferred stock, which the Board of Directors (after consulting with our accountants) determined to be worth $480,000. The preferred stock is redeemable on December 1, 2013. (3) Represents cash salary. (4) In 2009, Global Equity Partners PLC issued 20,000,000 shares of common stock, having a fair value of $100,000 (0.005/share) to Mr. Smith, in connection with pre-incorporation services rendered. (5) Represents $40,000 of accrued, but unpaid salary. (6) During 2010, Mr. Taddei provided some accounting and financial modeling to GE Partners PLC for which he invoiced Global Equity Partners PLC $5,000 and received 5,000,000 shares of the Company's common stock valued at $.001 per share.
EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENTS SUMMARY
PETER JAMES SMITH:
Mr. Smith's employment agreement with the Company was executed on September 1, 2011, and the basic terms were as follows:
1. DUTIES - ASSIGNMENT: Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and Director on Board of Directors
2. COMPENSATION: $240,000 per annum, subject to annual review and adjustment of no less than a 5% percentage increase. The salary will be paid on a monthly basis.
3. EMPLOYMENT: The contract commenced on the first day of September, 2011.
(a) Employment will continue for 36 MONTHS.
(b) The Company and employee agreed to accrue the monthly from September 2011 onwards. Payment of the accrued amounts shall commence no later than January 2nd 2012 and payment of the ongoing monthly salary shall commence on the last working day of January 2012.
4. SEVERANCE PAYMENTS
(a) If Employer terminates this Agreement for any reason other than Disability, Death, Employee shall be entitled to receive, and Employer shall make, the following severance payments:
(i) continue to pay a sum equivalent to SIX MONTHS' SALARY.
(b) If Employer terminates this Agreement by reason of the Disability of Employee or if this Agreement is automatically terminated upon the Death of Employee pursuant to Section 3(b), Employee or his estate shall be entitled to receive, and Employer shall make, the following severance payments:
(i) continue to pay a sum equivalent to FIVE YEARS ANNUAL SALARY via the life assurance scheme to be put in place January 2012
ENZO TADDEI:
Mr. Taddei's employment agreement with the Company was executed on September 1, 2011, and the basic terms were as follows:
1. DUTIES - ASSIGNMENT: Chief Financial Officer (CFO) and Director on Board of Directors
2. COMPENSATION: $120,000 per annum, subject to annual review and adjustment of no less than a 5% percentage increase. The salary will be paid on a monthly basis.
3. EMPLOYMENT: The contract commenced on the first day of September, 2011.
(a) Employment will continue for 36 MONTHS.
(b) The Company and employee agreed to accrue the monthly from September 2011 onwards. Payment of the accrued amounts shall commence no later than January 2nd 2012 and payment of the ongoing monthly salary shall commence on the last working day of January 2012.
4. SEVERANCE PAYMENTS
(a) If Employer terminates this Agreement for any reason other than Disability, Death, Employee shall be entitled to receive, and Employer shall make, the following severance payments:
(i) continue to pay a sum equivalent to SIX MONTHS' SALARY.
(b) If Employer terminates this Agreement by reason of the Disability of Employee or if this Agreement is automatically terminated upon the Death of Employee pursuant to Section 3(b), Employee or his estate shall be entitled to receive, and Employer shall make, the following severance payments:
(i) continue to pay a sum equivalent to FIVE YEARS ANNUAL SALARY via the life assurance scheme to be put in place January 2012.
ADRIAN SCARROTT:
Mr. Scarrott's employment agreement with the Company was executed on September 1, 2011, and the basic terms were as follows:
1. DUTIES - ASSIGNMENT: New business coordinator.
2. COMPENSATION: $40,000 per annum. The salary will be paid on a monthly basis.
3. EMPLOYMENT: The contract commenced on the first day of September, 2011.
a) Employment will continue for 12 months.
b) The Company and employee agreed to accrue the monthly from September 2011 onwards. Payment of the accrued amounts shall commence no later than January 2nd 2012 and payment of the ongoing monthly salary shall commence on the last working day of January 2012.
4. SEVERANCE PAYMENTS
a) If Employer terminates this Agreement for any reason other than Disability, Death, Employee shall be entitled to receive, and Employer shall make, the following severance payments:
(i) continue to pay a sum equivalent to two months' salary.
b) If Employer terminates this Agreement by reason of the Disability of Employee or if this Agreement is automatically terminated upon the Death of Employee pursuant to Section 3(b),
(i) Employee or his estate shall be entitled to receive, and Employer shall make, the following severance payments:
c) continue to pay a sum equivalent to three years annual salary via the life assurance scheme to be put in place January 2012
STOCK OPTION AND OTHER COMPENSATION PLANS
Aside from the employment agreements with Messrs. Smith, Scarrot and Taddei, the Company currently does not have a stock option or any other compensation plan and we do not have any plans to adopt one in the near future.
COMPENSATION OF DIRECTORS
Our two directors do not receive any compensation for serving as a member of our board of directors, as they are compensated pursuant to their employment agreements as officers of the Company.
No retirement, pension, profit sharing, stock option or insurance programs or other similar programs have been adopted by the Company for the benefit of its employees.
There are no understandings or agreements regarding compensation our management will receive after a business combination that is required to be included in this table, or otherwise.
INDEMNIFICATION
Article VII, Section 7 of the Company's Bylaws provide that the Company shall indemnify its officers, directors, employees and agents to the fullest extent permitted by the laws of Nevada.
The Nevada Revised Statutes allow us to indemnify our officers, directors, employees, and agents from any threatened, pending, or completed action, suit, or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative, or investigative, except under certain circumstances. Indemnification may only occur if a determination has been made that the officer, director, employee, or agent acted in good faith and in a manner, which such person believed to be in the best interests of the corporation. A determination may be made by the shareholders; by a majority of the directors who were not parties to the action, suit, or proceeding confirmed by opinion of independent legal counsel; or by opinion of independent legal counsel in the event a quorum of directors who were not a party to such action, suit, or proceeding does not exist.
The expenses of officers and directors incurred in defending a civil or criminal action, suit or proceeding must be paid by us as they are incurred and in advance of the final disposition of the action, suit or proceeding, if and only if the officer or director undertakes to repay said expenses to us if it is ultimately determined by a court of competent jurisdiction that he is not entitled to be indemnified by us.
The indemnification and advancement of expenses may not be made to or on behalf of any officer or director if a final adjudication establishes that the officer's or director's acts or omission involved intentional misconduct, fraud or a knowing violation of the law and was material to the cause of action.
The Nevada Revised Statutes allow a company to indemnify our officers, directors, employees, and agents from any threatened, pending, or completed action, suit, or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative, or investigative, except under certain circumstances. Indemnification may only occur if a determination has been made that the officer, director, employee, or agent acted in good faith and in a manner, which such person believed to be in the best interests of the corporation. A determination may be made by the stockholders; by a majority of the directors who were not parties to the action, suit, or proceeding confirmed by opinion of independent legal counsel; or by opinion of independent legal counsel in the event a quorum of directors who were not a party to such action, suit, or proceeding does not exist.
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION POSITION ON INDEMNIFICATION
Insofar as indemnification for liabilities arising under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, may be permitted to directors, officers and controlling persons of the company, we have been advised by our special securities counsel that in the opinion of the Securities and Exchange Commission, such indemnification is against public policy and is, therefore, unenforceable.
ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS.
The following tables set forth the ownership of our common stock and preferred stock by (a) each person known by us to be the beneficial owner of more than 5% of our outstanding common stock and preferred stock; and (b) by all of named officers and our directors and by all of our named executive officers and directors as a group. To the best of our knowledge, the persons named have sole voting and investment power with respect to such shares and are beneficial owners of the shares indicated in the tables, except as otherwise noted by footnote.
The information presented below regarding beneficial ownership of our voting securities has been presented in accordance with the rules of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and is not necessarily indicative of ownership for any other purpose. Under these rules, a person is deemed to be a "beneficial owner" of a security if that person has or shares the power to vote or direct the voting of the security or the power to dispose or direct the disposition of the security. A person is deemed to own beneficially any security as to which such person has the right to acquire sole or shared voting or investment power within 60 days through the conversion or exercise of any convertible security, warrant, option or other right. More than one person may be deemed to be a beneficial owner of the same securities. The percentage of beneficial ownership by any person as of a particular date is calculated by dividing the number of shares beneficially owned by such person, which includes the number of shares as to which such person has the right to acquire voting or investment power within 60 days, by the sum of the number of shares outstanding as of such date plus the number of shares as to which such person has the right to acquire voting or investment power within 60 days. Consequently, the denominator used for calculating such percentage may be different for each beneficial owner. Except as otherwise indicated below, we believe that the beneficial owners of our common stock listed below have sole voting and investment power with respect to the shares shown.
(a) Security ownership of certain beneficial owners:
---------- (1) Mr. Smith is the direct beneficial owner of, and has sole dispositive and voting power over, these shares. (2) Mr. Taddei is the direct beneficial owner of, and has sole dispositive and voting power over, these shares.
---------- (1) Mr. Smith is the direct beneficial owner of, and has sole dispositive and voting power over, these shares.
(b) Security ownership of management:
---------- (1) Mr. Smith is the direct beneficial owner of, and has sole dispositive and voting power over, these shares. (2) Mr. Taddei is the direct beneficial owner of, and has sole dispositive and voting power over, these shares.
---------- (1) Mr. Smith is the direct beneficial owner of, and has sole dispositive and voting power over, these shares.
(c) Changes in control:
We are not aware of any arrangements, including any pledge by any person of our securities, the operation of which may at a subsequent date result in a change in control of the Company.
ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE.
Although we have not adopted formal procedures for the review, approval or ratification of transactions with related persons, we adhere to a general policy that such transactions should only be entered into if they are on terms that, on the whole, are no more favorable, or no less favorable, than those available from unaffiliated third parties and their approval is in accordance with applicable law. Such transactions require the approval of our board of directors.
On November 30, 2011, the Company issued 5,000,000 shares of Series A Preferred Stock to Peter J. Smith, its President, as consideration for $480,000 as a compensatory bonus.
ITEM 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES.
INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS
The Company has renewed the engagement of Berman & Company, P.A. to serve as the independent accounting firm responsible for auditing our financial statements for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011.
(1) Audit Fees. During the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011, the aggregate fees billed by the Company's auditors, for services rendered for the audit of our annual financial statements and the review of the financial statements included in our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and for services provided in connection with the statutory and regulatory filings or engagements for 2011, was $20,000. During the fiscal year ended December 31, 2010, the aggregate fees billed by the Company's auditors, for services rendered for the audit of our annual financial statements and the review of the financial statements included in our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and for services provided in connection with the statutory and regulatory filings or engagements for 2010, was $20,000.
(2) Audit-Related Fees. During fiscal years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, our auditors did not receive any fees for any audit-related services other than as set forth in paragraph (1) above.
(3) Tax Fees. Our auditors did not provide tax compliance, tax advice, or tax planning advice during the fiscal years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010.
(4) All Other Fees. None.
(5) Audit Committee's Pre-Approval Policies and Procedures.
Effective May 6, 2003, the Securities and Exchange Commission adopted rules that require that before Principal Accountants are engaged by us to render any auditing or permitted non-audit related service, the engagement be:
* approved by our audit committee (which consists of our entire board of directors); or * entered into pursuant to pre-approval policies and procedures established by the board of directors, provided the policies and procedures are detailed as to the particular service, the board of directors is informed of each service, and such policies and procedures do not include delegation of the board of directors' responsibilities to management.
The board of directors pre-approves all services provided by our independent auditors. All of the above services and fees were reviewed and approved by the board of directors either before or after the respective services were rendered.
The board of directors has considered the nature and amount of fees billed by our principal accountants and believes that the provision of services for activities unrelated to the audit is compatible with maintaining our principal accountants' independence.
During the 2011 and 2010 fiscal years, the Company used the following pre-approval procedures related to the selection of our independent auditors and the services they provide: unanimous consent of all directors via a board resolution.
ITEM 15. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES.
(a) (1) Financial Statements
Financial statements for Global Equity International, Inc. listed in the Index to Financial Statements on page are filed as part of this Annual Report.
(a) (2) Financial Statement Schedule
Financial Statement Schedule for Global Equity International, Inc. listed in the Index to Financial Statements on page are filed as part of this Annual Report.
(a) (3) See the "Index to Exhibits" set forth below.
(b) See Exhibit Index below for exhibits required by Item 601 of Regulation S-K.
EXHIBIT INDEX
List of Exhibits attached or incorporated by reference pursuant to Item 601 of Regulation S-B
Exhibit No. Document Description ----------- -------------------- 2* Plan and Agreement of Reorganization dated November 15, 2010, among Global Equity International, Inc., Global Equity Partners PLC and Stockholders of Global Equity Partners LLC
3.1* Articles of Incorporation
3.2* Bylaws
4.1* Specimen Stock Certificate
4.2* Certificate of Amendment to Certificate of Designation of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock
10.1* Employment Agreement dated September 1, 2011, with Peter J. Smith
10.2* Employment Agreement dated September 1, 2011, with Enzo Taddei
10.3* Employment Agreement dated September 1, 2011, with Adrian Scarrott
10.4* Consulting Agreement between Global Equity Partners PLC and Black Swan Data Ltd. dated July 29, 2011
10.5* Consulting Agreement between Global Equity Partners PLC and Arrow Cars SL dated January 14, 2011
10.6* Consulting Agreement between Global Equity Partners PLC and RFC K.K. dated October 19, 2011
10.7* Consulting Agreement between Global Equity Partners PLC and M1 Luxembourg AG dated December 20, 2010
10.8* Consulting Agreement between Global Equity Partners PLC and Monkey Rock Group, Inc. dated November 26, 2009
10.9* Consulting Agreement between Global Equity Partners PLC and Voz Mobile Cloud Ltd. dated December 12, 2011
14* Code of Business Conduct and Ethics adopted on September 2, 2011
21** Subsidiaries
31.1** Certification of Principal Executive Officer Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350
31.2** Certification of Principal Financial Officer Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350
32.1** 906 Certification of Principal Executive Officer
32.2** 906 Certification of Principal Financial Officer
---------- * Incorporated by reference to the Company's Form 10 Registration Statement filed with the Commission on December 1, 2011, and as subsequently amended. ** Filed herewith.
SIGNATURES
In accordance with Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
Global Equity International, Inc.
Dated: March 30, 2012 /s/ Peter J. Smith ------------------------------------------ By: Peter J. Smith Its: President and Chief Executive Officer
In accordance with the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.
Dated: March 30, 2012 /s/ Peter J. Smith ------------------------------------------ By: Peter J. Smith Its: President and Chief Executive Officer and Director (Principal Executive Officer)
Dated: March 30, 2012 /s/ Enzo Taddei ------------------------------------------ By: Enzo Taddei Its: Chief Financial Officer, Secretary and Director (Principal Financial Officer and Principal Accounting Officer)
Global Equity International, Inc. and Subsidiary Consolidated Financial Statements December 31, 2011 and 2010
CONTENTS
Page(s) -------
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
Consolidated Balance Sheets -December 31, 2011 and 2010
Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Income (Loss) Years Ended December 31, 2011 and 2010
Consolidated Statement of Stockholders' Equity Years Ended December 31, 2011 and 2010
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows Years Ended December 31, 2011 and 2010
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM
To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of: Global Equity International, Inc.
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Global Equity International, Inc. and Subsidiary, as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, and the related consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive income (loss), stockholders' equity and cash flows for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010. These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. The Company is not required to have, nor were we engaged to perform, an audit of its internal control over financial reporting. Our audit included considerations of internal control over financial reporting as a basis for designing audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Company's internal control over financial reporting. Accordingly, we express no such opinion. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Global Equity International, Inc. and Subsidiary as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, and the results of its operations and comprehensive income (loss), and its cash flows for the years then ended, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.
The accompanying financial statements have been prepared assuming that the Company will continue as a going concern. As discussed in Note 8 to the financial statements, the Company has a net loss of $1,688,102 and net cash used in operations of $92,780 for the year ended December 31, 2011. The Company also has a working capital deficit of $185,123 at December 31, 2011. These factors raise substantial doubt about the Company's ability to continue as a going concern. Management's plan in regards to these matters is also described in Note 8. The financial statements do not include any adjustments that might result from the outcome of this uncertainty.
/s/ Berman & Company, P.A. ------------------------------- Boca Raton, Florida March 29, 2012
Global Equity International, Inc. and Subsidiary Consolidated Balance Sheets
See accompanying notes to financial statements.
Global Equity International, Inc. and Subsidiary Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Income (Loss)
See accompanying notes to financial statements.
Global Equity International, Inc. and Subsidiary Consolidated Statement of Stockholders' Equity Year ended December 31, 2011
See accompanying notes to financial statements.
Global Equity International, Inc. and Subsidiary Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
See accompanying notes to financial statements.
Global Equity International Inc. and Subsidiary Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements December 31, 2011 and 2010
NOTE 1 NATURE OF OPERATIONS
Global Equity Partners, PLC ("GEP"), a private company, was organized under the laws of the Republic of Seychelles on September 2, 2009. Global Equity International Inc. (the "Company" or "GEI"), a private company, was organized under the laws of the state of Nevada on October 1, 2010. On November 15, 2010, GEP executed a reverse recapitalization with GEI. See Note 3. GEI is a holding company that conducts operations through its wholly owned subsidiary, GEP.
Revenue is generated from business consulting services, financing introduction fees, and equity participation.
NOTE 2 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
PRINCIPLES OF CONSOLIDATION
All significant inter-company accounts and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.
USE OF ESTIMATES
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of financial statements and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting period.
Making estimates requires management to exercise significant judgment. It is at least reasonably possible that the estimate of the effect of a condition, situation or set of circumstances that existed at the date of the financial statements, which management considered in formulating its estimate could change in the near term due to one or more future non confirming events. Accordingly, the actual results could differ from those estimates.
RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES
The Company's operations are subject to significant risk and uncertainties including financial, operational, competition and potential risk of business failure. The risk of social and governmental factors is also a concern since the Company is headquartered in Dubai.
CASH
The Company considers all highly liquid investments with an original maturity of three months or less to be cash equivalents. At December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, the Company had no cash equivalents.
Global Equity International Inc. and Subsidiary Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements December 31, 2011 and 2010
ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE AND ALLOWANCE FOR DOUBTFUL ACCOUNTS
The Company recognizes accounts receivable in connection with the services provided. The Company has not recorded any allowance for bad debt, as all amounts are expected to be collected.
MARKETABLE SECURITIES
(A) CLASSIFICATION OF SECURITIES
At the time of acquisition, a security is designated as held-to-maturity, available-for-sale or trading, which depends on ability and intent to hold such security to maturity. Securities classified as trading and available-for-sale are reported at fair value, while securities classified as held-to-maturity are reported at amortized cost.
All securities held at December 31, 2011 are designated as available for sale.
Any unrealized gains and losses are reported as other comprehensive income (loss). Realized gains (losses) will be computed on a specific identification basis and are recorded in net capital gains (losses) on investments in the statements of operations.
COST METHOD INVESTMENT
At December 31, 2011, the Company has one investment, having a fair value of $100,000, that is treated as a cost method investment. The value of the cost method investment pertains to the receipt of 10% of the common stock in a private company in which the best evidence of fair value was the services rendered.
In accordance with ASC NO.325-20, "COST METHOD INVESTMENTS", the Company recognizes an investment in the stock of an investee as an asset, as a component of marketable securities.
Under the cost method of accounting for investments in common stock, dividends will be the basis for recognition by the Company of earnings from the investment. The net accumulated earnings of an investee subsequent to the date of investment are recognized by the Company only to the extent distributed by the investee as dividends. Dividends received in excess of earnings subsequent to the date of investment are considered a return of investment and are recorded as reductions of cost of the investment. At December 31, 2011, the Company had not received any dividends.
Since the Company has less than $100,000,000 in assets, estimating fair value and related impairment is exempt under ASC No. 325-35-26.
Global Equity International Inc. and Subsidiary Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements December 31, 2011 and 2010
(B) OTHER THAN TEMPORARY IMPAIRMENT
The Company reviews its equity investment portfolio for any unrealized losses that would be deemed other-than-temporary and require the recognition of an impairment loss in income. If the cost of an investment exceeds its fair value, the Company evaluates, among other factors, general market conditions, the duration and extent to which the fair value is less than cost, and the Company's intent and ability to hold the investments. Management also considers the type of security, related-industry and sector performance, as well as published investment ratings and analyst reports, to evaluate its portfolio. Once a decline in fair value is determined to be other than temporary, an impairment charge is recorded and a new cost basis in the investment is established. If market, industry, and/or investee conditions deteriorate, the Company may incur future impairments. The Company recorded a realized loss on impairment of marketable securities for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010 totaling $1,086,160 and $0, respectively (See Note 4).
BENEFICIAL CONVERSION FEATURE
For conventional convertible debt where the rate of conversion is below market value, the Company records a "beneficial conversion feature" ("BCF") and related debt discount.
When the Company records a BCF, the relative fair value of the BCF would be recorded as a debt discount against the face amount of the respective debt instrument. The discount would be amortized to interest expense over the life of the debt.
DERIVATIVE LIABILITIES
Fair value accounting requires bifurcation of embedded derivative instruments such as conversion features in convertible debt or equity instruments, and measurement of their fair value for accounting purposes. In determining the appropriate fair value, the Company uses the Black-Scholes option-pricing model. In assessing the convertible debt instruments, management determines if the convertible debt host instrument is conventional convertible debt and further if there is a beneficial conversion feature requiring measurement. If the instrument is not considered conventional convertible debt, the Company will continue its evaluation process of these instruments as derivative financial instruments.
Once the derivative liabilities are determined, they are adjusted to reflect fair value at each reporting period end, with any increase or decrease in the fair value being recorded in results of operations as an adjustment to fair value of derivatives. In addition, the fair value of freestanding derivative instruments such as warrants, are also valued using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model.
Global Equity International Inc. and Subsidiary Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements December 31, 2011 and 2010
DEBT ISSUE COSTS AND DEBT DISCOUNT
The Company may pay debt issue costs, and record debt discounts in connection with raising funds through the issuance of convertible debt. These costs are amortized over the life of the debt to interest expense. If a conversion of the underlying debt occurs, a proportionate share of the unamortized amounts is immediately expensed.
ORIGINAL ISSUE DISCOUNT
For certain convertible debt issued, the Company provides the debt holder with an original issue discount. The original issue discount is recorded to debt discount, reducing the face amount of the note and is amortized to interest expense over the life of the debt.
REVENUE RECOGNITION
Revenue is recognized when the price is fixed or determinable, persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, the service is performed, and collectability of the related fee is reasonably assured.
The Company's services do not include a provision for cancellation, termination, or refunds.
In 2011, the Company received marketable securities and cash as consideration for services rendered. In 2010, the Company received marketable securities as consideration for all revenue recognized.
During 2011 and 2010, the Company had the following concentrations of accounts receivables with customers:
Customer 2011 2010 -------- ---- ----
D 43% --% E 57% --%
Global Equity International Inc. and Subsidiary Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements December 31, 2011 and 2010
During 2011 and 2010, the Company had the following concentrations of revenues with customers:
Customer 2011 2010 -------- ---- ----
A --% 53% B --% 47% C 25% --% D 19% --% E 21% --% F* 35% --%
No securities were acquired from customers "C", "D", or "E" as all of this revenue was received in cash (See Note 4).
* Non-marketable securities, accounted for under the cost method.
SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS
The Company recognizes all forms of share-based payments, including stock option grants, warrants, restricted stock grants and stock appreciation rights, at their fair value on the grant date, which are based on the estimated number of awards that are ultimately expected to vest.
Share based payments, excluding restricted stock, are valued using a Black-Scholes option pricing model. Share based payment awards issued to non-employees for services rendered are recorded at either the fair value of the services rendered or the fair value of the share-based payment, whichever is more readily determinable. The grants are amortized on a straight-line basis over the requisite service periods, which is generally the vesting period. If an award is granted, but vesting does not occur, any previously recognized compensation cost is reversed in the period related to the termination of service.
When computing fair value, the Company considered the following variables:
* The risk-free interest rate assumption is based on the U.S. Treasury yield for a period consistent with the expected term of the warrant in effect at the time of the grant. * The expected term was developed by management estimate. * The Company has not paid any dividends on common stock since inception and does not anticipate paying dividends on its common stock in the near future. * The expected volatility is based on management estimates regarding private company stock, where future trading of stock in a public market is expected to be highly volatile. * The forfeiture rate is based on historical experience.
Global Equity International Inc. and Subsidiary Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements December 31, 2011 and 2010
INCOME TAXES
Income taxes are accounted for under the asset and liability method. Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the future tax consequences attributable to differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases, and operating loss carryforwards. Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. The effect on deferred income tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax rates is recognized in income in the period that includes the enactment date. A valuation allowance is provided to reduce the carrying amount of deferred income tax assets if it is considered more likely than not that some portion, or all, of the deferred income tax assets will not be realized.
On November 15, 2010, the date of the reverse recapitalization, the Company became subject to federal and state income taxes.
The Company recognizes the effect of income tax positions only if those positions are more likely than not of being sustained. Recognized income tax positions are measured at the largest amount that is greater than 50 percent likely of being realized. Changes in recognition or measurement are reflected in the period in which the change in judgment occurs. The Company will record interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits in income tax expense. There were no penalties or interest for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010.
The Company may be subject to examination by the Internal Revenue Service ("IRS") and state taxing authorities for 2011 and 2010 tax years.
The Company's subsidiary, GEP, is incorporated under the laws of the Republic of Seychelles ("Seychelles"). A company is subject to Seychelles income tax if it does business in Seychelles. A company that is incorporated in Seychelles, but that does not do business in Seychelles, is not subject to income tax there. GEP did not do business in Seychelles for the years ended December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, and GEP does not intend to do business in Seychelles in the future. Accordingly, the Company is not subject to income tax in Seychelles for the years ended December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010. All business activities were performed by GEP in Dubai for the years ended December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010. Dubai does not have an income tax.
Global Equity International Inc. and Subsidiary Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements December 31, 2011 and 2010
EARNINGS PER SHARE
Basic earnings (loss) per share is computed by dividing net income (loss) by weighted average number of shares of common stock outstanding during each period. Diluted earnings (loss) per share is computed by dividing net income (loss) by the weighted average number of shares of common stock, common stock equivalents and potentially dilutive securities outstanding during the period.
The Company has no common stock equivalents, which, if exercisable, would be anti-dilutive. A separate computation of diluted earnings (loss) per share is not presented.
COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS)
Consists of the change in unrealized gain (loss) on available-for-sale marketable securities.
FAIR VALUE FOR FINANCIAL ASSETS AND LIABILITIES
The Company measures assets and liabilities at fair value based on an expected exit price as defined by the authoritative guidance on fair value measurements, which represents the amount that would be received on the sale of an asset or paid to transfer a liability, as the case may be, in an orderly transaction between market participants. As such, fair value may be based on assumptions that market participants would use in pricing an asset or liability. The authoritative guidance on fair value measurements establishes a consistent framework for measuring fair value on either a recurring or nonrecurring basis whereby inputs, used in valuation techniques, are assigned a hierarchical level. The following are the hierarchical levels of inputs to measure fair value:
* Level 1: Observable inputs that reflect quoted prices (unadjusted) for identical assets or liabilities in active markets.
* Level 2: Inputs reflect: quoted prices for identical assets or liabilities in markets that are not active; quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities in active markets; inputs other than quoted prices that are observable for the assets or liabilities; or inputs that are derived principally from or corroborated by observable market data by correlation or other means.
* Level 3: Unobservable inputs reflecting the Company's assumptions incorporated in valuation techniques used to determine fair value. These assumptions are required to be consistent with market participant assumptions that are reasonably available.
Global Equity International Inc. and Subsidiary Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements December 31, 2011 and 2010
The carrying amounts reported in the balance sheet for cash, prepaids, accounts receivable, accounts payable, accrued liabilities - related parties and loans payable - related party, approximate fair value based on the short-term nature of these instruments.
The Company has assets measured at fair market value on a recurring basis. Consequently, the Company had gains and losses reported in the statement of comprehensive income (loss), that were attributable to the change in unrealized gains or losses relating to those assets and liabilities still held at the reporting date for the year ended December 31, 2011.
The following is the Company's assets measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis at December 31, 2011 and 2010, using quoted prices in active markets for identical assets (Level 1); significant other observable inputs (Level 2); and significant unobservable inputs (Level 3):
December 31, 2011 December 31, 2010 ----------------- -----------------
Level 1 - None $ -- $ -- Level 2 - Marketable Securities 1,590,000 2,227,236 Level 3 - Non-Marketable Securities 100,000 -- ---------- ---------- TOTAL $1,690,000 $2,227,236 ========== ==========
Changes in Level 3 assets measured at fair value for the year ended December 31, 2011 were as follows:
December 31, 2011 -----------------
Beginning balance, December 31, 2010 $ -- Realized and unrealized gains (losses) -- Purchases, sales and settlements 100,000 Impairment loss -- ---------- Ending balance, December 31, 2011 $ 100,000 ==========
RECENTLY ADOPTED ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS
In June 2011, the FASB issued ASU No. 2011-05, Comprehensive Income (Topic 220): Presentation of Comprehensive Income. The guidance in ASU 2011-05 applies to both annual and interim financial statements and eliminates the option for reporting entities to present the components of other comprehensive income as part of the statement of changes in stockholders' equity. This ASU also requires consecutive presentation of the statement of net income and other comprehensive income. Finally, this ASU requires an entity to present reclassification adjustments on the face of the financial statements from other comprehensive income to net income. The amendments in this ASU should be applied retrospectively and are effective for fiscal year, and interim periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 2011. The Company has adopted this guidance in these financial statements.
Global Equity International Inc. and Subsidiary Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements December 31, 2011 and 2010
In May 2011, the FASB issued ASU No. 2011-04, Fair Value Measurement (Topic 820): Amendments to Achieve Common Fair Value Measurement and Disclosure Requirements in U.S. GAAP and IFRSs. The guidance in ASU 2011-04 changes the wording used to describe the requirements in U.S. GAAP for measuring fair value and for disclosing information about fair value measurements, including clarification of the FASB's intent about the application of existing fair value and disclosure requirements and changing a particular principle or requirement for measuring fair value or for disclosing information about fair value measurements. The amendments in this ASU should be applied prospectively and are effective for interim and annual periods beginning after December 15, 2011. Early adoption by public entities is not permitted. The adoption of this guidance is not expected to have a material impact on the Company's financial position or results of operations.
NOTE 3 REVERSE RECAPITALIZATION
On November 15, 2010, the Company merged with GEP, a private corporation, and GEP became the surviving corporation, in a transaction treated as a reverse recapitalization. GEI did not have any material operations and majority-voting control was transferred to GEP.
In the recapitalization, GEI issued 20,000,000 shares of common stock in exchange for all of GEP's 100,000 issued and outstanding shares of commons stock. For financial reporting purposes, the 100,000 shares have been recasted to 20,000,000 shares in accordance with an exchange ratio of 200 for 1. The balance of the common shares issued and outstanding in GEI prior to the recapitalization were 8,000,000 common shares, and these common shares represent the common shares issued and outstanding in GEI prior to the recapitalization that were not contemplated in the share exchange. The transaction resulted in GEP's shareholders acquiring approximately 72% control.
The transaction also required a recapitalization of GEP. Since GEP acquired a controlling voting interest, it was deemed the accounting acquirer, while GEI was deemed the legal acquirer. The historical financial statements of the Company are those of GEP and of the consolidated entities from the date of recapitalization and subsequent.
Since the transaction is considered a reverse recapitalization, the presentation of pro-forma financial information was not required. All share and per share amounts have been retroactively restated to the earliest periods presented to reflect the transaction.
Global Equity International Inc. and Subsidiary Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements December 31, 2011 and 2010
NOTE 4 MARKETABLE SECURITIES AND FAIR VALUE
The following table represents the Company's available for sale marketable securities holdings as of December 31, 2010 and 2011:
Equity securities acquired in 2010 $ 2,061,160 Unrealized gains - 2010 210,000 Unrealized losses - 2010 (*) (43,924) ----------- Equity securities at fair value - 2010 2,227,236 Equity securities acquired in 2011 100,000 Unrealized gains - 2011 405,000 Impairment loss - 2011 (*) (1,042,236) ----------- EQUITY SECURITIES AT FAIR VALUE - 2011 $ 1,690,000 ===========
(*) The securities acquired in 2010 from customer "B" were permanently impaired to zero since the customer was delisted from the Frankfurt Open Market when it fell out of compliance with the capital adequacy rules. During 2011, in connection with recording a realized loss on impairment of marketable securities for customer "B", previously recorded unrealized losses of $43,924 were recorded as a component of total impairment loss of $1,086,160.
NOTE 5 DEBT
(A) RELATED PARTY
The Company received advances, of $40,173, from related parties. The advances are non-interest bearing, unsecured and due on demand.
(B) OTHER
In July 2011, the Company received an advance, of $35,500, from a third party. The advance was non-interest bearing, unsecured and due on demand. The loan was repaid in September 2011.
Global Equity International Inc. and Subsidiary Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements December 31, 2011 and 2010
NOTE 6 INCOME TAXES
The Company's provision (benefit) for income taxes is approximately as follows:
2011 2010 -------- -------- Current: Federal $ -- $ -- State -- -- -------- -------- Total -- -- -------- --------
Deferred: Federal -- -- State -- -- -------- -------- Total -- -- -------- -------- Continuing operations $ -- $ -- ======== ========
The income tax provision differs from the amount of tax determined by applying the federal statutory rate approximately as follows:
2011 2010 --------- ---------
Income tax provision at statutory rate $(586,000) $ 583,000 Increase (decrease) in income tax due to: Non-taxable foreign earnings 574,000 (602,000) State taxes (1,000) (2,000) Change in valuation allowance 13,000 21,000 --------- --------- Total $ -- $ -- ========= =========
Global Equity International Inc. and Subsidiary Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements December 31, 2011 and 2010
Net deferred tax assets and liabilities are comprised approximately of the following:
2011 2010 -------- --------
Deferred tax assets (liabilities), current $ -- $ -- -------- -------- Deferred tax assets (liabilities), non-current: Net operating loss 34,000 21,000 Valuation allowance (34,000) (21,000) -------- -------- -- -- -------- --------
Net deferred tax assets (liabilities) $ -- $ -- ======== ========
Current assets (liabilities) $ -- $ -- Non-current assets (liabilities) -- -- -------- -------- $ -- $ -- ======== ========
Deferred income taxes reflect the net tax effects of temporary differences between the carrying amount of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for income taxes.
During the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, the Company generated net operating losses of approximately $34,000 and $55,000, respectively, for federal and Florida income tax purposes. These losses can be carried forward and used to offset taxable income in future years and expire on December 31, 2031 and 2030, respectively.
In assessing the realizability of deferred tax assets, management considers whether it is more-likely-than-not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. The ultimate realization of deferred tax assets is dependent upon the generation of future taxable income during the periods in which those temporary differences become deductible. Management considers the scheduled reversal of deferred tax liabilities, projected future taxable income, and tax planning strategies in making this assessment. As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, based upon the levels of historical taxable income and the limited experience of the Company, the Company believes that it is more-likely-than-not that it will not be able to realize the benefits of some or all of these deductible differences. Accordingly, a valuation allowance of approximately $34,000 and $21,000 has been provided in the accompanying financial statements as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively.
Global Equity International Inc. and Subsidiary Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements December 31, 2011 and 2010
For the year ended December 31, 2011 and from November 15, 2010 to December 31, 2010, GEP incurred a loss of approximately $567,000 and $20,000, respectively. Therefore, GEP had negative earnings and profits and does not have any foreign earnings and profits to be distributed. Since GEP does not have any undistributed earnings, the Company has not recorded a deferred tax liability associated with the foreign earnings as of December 31, 2011 and 2010.
The Company is not subject to any foreign income taxes for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010.
The Company may be subject to examination by the Internal Revenue Service ("IRS") and state taxing authorities for 2011 and 2010 tax years.
NOTE 7 STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
PREFERRED STOCK
On November 30, 2011, the Company designated Series A Preferred Stock, with the following rights:
* Voting rights - each share has two votes. * Conversion - each share is automatically convertible into 10,000,000 shares of common stock on December 1, 2013. (See Redeemable Preferred Stock below). * No dividend rights. * No liquidation rights.
The Company issued 5,000,000, Series A, convertible preferred shares of stock, as a bonus to its Chief Executive Officer for services rendered, having a fair value of $480,000 ($0.096/share), based upon the fair value of the services rendered, which represents the best evidence of fair value.
The Company has determined that no beneficial conversion feature or derivative financial instruments exist in connection with the Series A, convertible preferred stock, as the conversion rate was fixed at an amount equal to the market price of our common stock. Additionally, there is a stated number of fixed shares.
Global Equity International Inc. and Subsidiary Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements December 31, 2011 and 2010
REDEEMABLE PREFERRED STOCK
Under Regulation S-X, Rule 5-02-28, preferred stock must be classified outside shareholders' equity when the stock is:
* Redeemable at a fixed or determinable price on a fixed or determinable date, * Redeemable at the option of the holder, or * Redeemable based on conditions outside the control of the issuer.
Since the Series A, convertible preferred stock is redeemable on December 1, 2013 it is presented on the balance sheets as "Redeemable Preferred Stock" in a manner consistent with temporary equity.
There are no other features associated with this class of redeemable preferred stock, which require disclosure. The carrying amount and redemption amount are $480,000. There are no redemption requirements.
COMMON STOCK
YEAR END 2010
On December 31, 2010, the Company agreed to issue 668,000 restricted common shares to various creditors as part of a debt conversion agreement for $263,534.
YEAR END 2011
In May and June 2011, the Company issued 103,100 shares of common stock for $51,550 ($0.50/share).
On September 23, 2011, the Company issued 9,600 shares of common stock for services rendered, having a fair value of $4,800 ($0.50/share), based upon recent third party cash offerings.
NOTE 8 GOING CONCERN
As reflected in the accompanying financial statements, the Company had a net loss of $1,688,102 and net cash used in operations of $92,780 for the year ended December 31, 2011; and a working capital deficit of $185,123 and at December 31, 2011. These factors raise substantial doubt about the Company's ability to continue as a going concern.
Global Equity International Inc. and Subsidiary Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements December 31, 2011 and 2010
The ability of the Company to continue its operations is dependent on Management's plans, which include the raising of capital through debt and/or equity markets, until such time that funds provided by operations are sufficient to fund working capital requirements. The Company may need to incur liabilities with certain related parties to sustain the Company's existence.
The Company expects to use its working capital to implement a marketing program to increase awareness of its business model, which includes, but is not limited to, acquisition of private companies, with the intention of taking those companies public in the United States and possibly dual listing those entities abroad. In the event that operating cash flows are slowed or nonexistent, the Company plans to reduce its overhead wherever possible.
Depending upon market conditions, the Company may not be successful in raising sufficient additional capital for it to achieve its business objectives. In such event, the business, prospects, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially adversely affected hence there is certain doubt about the Company's ability to continue as a going concern.
The accompanying financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis, which contemplates the realization of assets and the satisfaction of liabilities in the normal course of business. These financial statements do not include any adjustments relating to the recovery of the recorded assets or the classification of the liabilities that might be necessary should the Company be unable to continue as a going concern.
NOTE 9 COMMITMENTS
Effective September 1, 2011, the Company executed an employment agreement with its Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, under the following terms:
* Salary - $120,000 - 240,000 per year, * Stock options - amount yet to be determined; and * Term - 3 years
At December 31, 2011, the Company has accrued salaries of $145,528 for these officers.
NOTE 10 SUBSEQUENT EVENTS
DEBT
In March 2012, the Company entered into 90 day bridge loan agreements to raise a total of $70,000. The loans will have interest ranging from 0% - 3%. The loans are unsecured. As of March 29, 2012, the Company has received $50,000.
Global Equity International Inc. and Subsidiary Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements December 31, 2011 and 2010
In connection with this loan, the Company issued 140,000 shares of common stock, having a fair value of $70,000 ($0.50/share), based upon recent third party services rendered, and 20,000 warrants to the lender having an exercise price of $1, expiring September 2013. The fair value of the warrants was approximately $7,000.
The amounts paid to acquire the debt financing have been treated as a debt discount. The Company will record debt discounts of $70,000. The remaining valuation of the warrants of $7,000 will be recorded as interest expense. The Company will credit additional paid in capital for $77,000.
The Company applied fair value accounting for all share based payment awards. The fair value of each warrant granted is estimated on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model. The Black-Scholes assumptions used are as follows:
Exercise price $ 1 Expected dividends 0% Expected volatility 200% Risk fee interest rate 0.35% Expected life of option 1.5 years Expected forfeitures 0%