Item 2. Properties
Description of the Underlying Properties
The underlying properties consist of Whiting’s net interests in certain oil and natural gas producing properties as of the date of the conveyance of the NPI to the Trust, which properties are located primarily in the Permian Basin, Rocky Mountains, Gulf Coast and Mid-Continent regions of the United States. The underlying properties include interests in 1,301 gross (364.1 net) producing oil and natural gas wells located in 42 predominately mature fields with established production profiles in 8 states. As of December 31, 2020, 100% of estimated proved reserves attributable to the Trust’s interest in the NPI were classified as proved developed producing. For the year ended December 31, 2020, the net production attributable to the underlying properties was 922 MBOE or 2,519 BOE/d. Whiting operates approximately 72% of the underlying properties based on the December 31, 2020 reserve report standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows.
Whiting’s interests in the oil and natural gas properties comprising the underlying properties require Whiting to bear its proportionate share, along with the other working interest owners, of the costs to develop and operate such properties. Many of the properties comprising the underlying properties that are operated by Whiting are burdened by non-working interests owned by third parties and royalty interests retained by the owners of the land subject to the working interests. The royalty interests typically entitle the landowner to receive at least 12.5% of the revenue derived from oil and natural gas production from wells drilled on the landowner’s land, without any deduction for drilling costs or other costs related to production of oil and natural gas. A working interest percentage represents a working interest owner’s proportionate ownership interest in a property in relation to all other working interest owners in that property, whereas a net revenue interest is a working interest owner’s percentage of production and revenues, after reducing such interest by the percentage of burdens on production such as royalties and overriding royalties.
The NPI entitles the Trust to receive 90% of the net proceeds from the sale of production from the underlying properties. The Trust’s remaining reserves attributable to the 90% NPI were estimated to be 0.45 MMBOE as of December 31, 2020. Refer to “Risk Factors” in Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional discussion of those assumptions and their inherent risks. The rate of future production cannot be predicted with certainty. The proved reserves attributable to the underlying properties include all proved reserves expected to be economically produced during the remaining full life of the properties, whereas the Trust is only entitled to receive 90% of the net proceeds from the sale of production of oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids attributable to the underlying properties during the term of the NPI, which will terminate on December 31, 2021.
Whiting’s retained interest in the underlying properties, after deducting the NPI, entitles it to 10% of the net proceeds from the sale of oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids production attributable to the underlying properties during the term of the NPI and all of the net proceeds thereafter. This interest retained by Whiting provides it with an incentive to operate (or cause to be operated) the underlying properties in an efficient and cost-effective manner. In addition, Whiting has agreed to operate the properties for which it is the designated operator as a reasonably prudent operator in the same manner that it would operate them if these properties were not burdened by the NPI. Furthermore, for those properties for which it is not the designated operator, Whiting has agreed to use commercially reasonable efforts to cause the operator to operate the property in the same manner. However, Whiting’s ability to cause other operators to take certain actions is limited.
In general, the producing wells to which the underlying properties relate have established production profiles. Based on the reserve report, annual production from the underlying properties is expected to decline at a year-over-year rate of approximately 12.5% for oil and 12.0% for gas through December 31, 2021, the NPI termination date, assuming no additional developmental drilling or investments are made other than those assumed in the year-end reserve report. However, cash distributions, if any, to unitholders may decline at a faster rate than the rate of production due to fixed and semi-variable costs attributable to the underlying properties or if future development is delayed, reduced or cancelled.
Reserves
As of December 31, 2020, all of the Trust’s oil and gas reserves are attributable to properties within the United States. The following table summarizes estimated proved reserves and the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows as of December 31, 2020
attributable to (i) the Trust based on the term of its NPI, and (ii) the underlying properties on a full economic life basis (dollars in thousands):
____________
(1)Oil and gas reserve quantities have been derived from NYMEX oil and gas prices of $39.57 per Bbl and $1.99 per MMBtu, respectively, which are calculated using an average of the first-day-of-the month price for each month within the 12 months ended December 31, 2020, pursuant to current SEC and FASB guidelines.
(2)This table does not include any proved undeveloped reserve quantities as of December 31, 2020 primarily because the underlying properties consist of mature producing properties that are essentially fully developed. While technical studies have identified an insignificant number of drilling locations that could meet the criteria of proved undeveloped reserves, such locations are not reflected in the December 31, 2020 reserve report because no future capital has been committed for the development of such reserves on the underlying properties.
(3)Standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows as of December 31, 2020. No provision for federal or state income taxes has been provided because taxable income is passed through to the unitholders of the Trust. Therefore, the standardized measure of the Trust and of the underlying properties is equal to their corresponding pre-tax PV 10% values.
(4)The Trust’s estimated proved reserves as of December 31, 2020 on a 90% NPI basis were 453 MBOE, which reserve amount includes only those quantities of proved reserves in the underlying properties that are available to satisfy the interests of Trust unitholders through the NPI termination date of December 31, 2021 and does not include the remaining 10% of proved reserves in the underlying properties to which only Whiting would be entitled.
(5)The reserves attributable to the underlying properties include all reserves expected to be economically produced during the life of the properties, whereas the Trust is only entitled to receive 90% of the net proceeds from the sale of production of oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids attributable to the underlying properties during the term of the NPI, which will terminate on December 31, 2021.
(6)The Trust will wind up its affairs and terminate shortly after the NPI termination date of December 31, 2021.
(7)Oil includes natural gas liquids.
Proved reserves. Estimates of proved reserves are inherently imprecise and are continually subject to revision based on production history, results of additional exploration and development, price changes and other factors. Oil and gas reserve quantities and related discounted future net cash flows have been derived from oil and gas prices calculated using an average of the first-day-of-the month price for each month of 2020, pursuant to current SEC and FASB guidelines. Assumptions used to estimate reserve quantities and related discounted future net cash flows also include costs for estimated future production and development expenditures required to produce the proved reserves as of December 31, 2020. Future net cash flows are discounted at an annual rate of 10%. There is no provision for federal income taxes with respect to the future net cash flows attributable to the underlying properties or to the NPI because future net revenues are not subject to taxation at the Trust level. Refer to “Federal Income Tax Matters” in Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for more information.
A rollforward of changes in net proved reserves attributable to the Trust’s interest in the NPI from January 1, 2020 to December 31, 2020, and the calculation of the standardized measure of the related discounted future net revenues, are contained in the Supplemental Oil And Gas Reserve Information (Unaudited) in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Whiting has not filed reserve estimates covering the underlying properties with any other federal authority or agency.
In 2020, revisions to previous estimates decreased proved reserves by a net amount of 283 MBOE. Included in these revisions were (i) 263 MBOE of downward adjustments caused by lower oil and gas pricing incorporated into the Trust’s reserve estimates as of December 31, 2020 compared to December 31, 2019 and (ii) 20 MBOE of downward adjustments attributable to engineering and reservoir analysis and other factors.
Preparation of reserves estimates. Whiting has advised the Trustee that it maintains adequate and effective internal controls over the reserve estimation process as well as the underlying data upon which reserve estimates are based. The primary inputs to the reserve estimation process are comprised of technical information, financial data, ownership interests and production data. All field and reservoir technical information, which is updated annually, is assessed for validity when the reservoir engineers hold technical meetings with geoscientists, operations and land personnel to discuss field performance. Current revenue and expense information is obtained from Whiting’s accounting records, which are subject to their own set of internal controls over financial reporting. Internal controls over financial reporting are assessed for effectiveness annually using the criteria set forth in Internal Control - Integrated Framework (2013)
issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. All current financial data such as commodity prices, lease operating expenses, transportation, gathering, compression and other expenses, production taxes and field commodity price differentials are updated in the reserve database and then analyzed to ensure that they have been entered accurately and that all updates are complete. Whiting’s current ownership in mineral interests and well production data are also subject to the aforementioned internal controls over financial reporting, and they are incorporated in the reserve database as well and verified to ensure their accuracy and completeness. Once the reserve database has been entirely updated with current information, and all relevant technical support material has been assembled, the Trust’s independent engineering firm Netherland, Sewell, & Associates, Inc. (“NSAI”) meets with Whiting’s technical personnel to review the performance of the underlying properties. Following this review the reserve database is furnished to NSAI so that they can prepare their independent reserve estimates and final report. Access to Whiting’s reserve database is restricted to specific members of the reservoir engineering department.
The reserves estimates shown herein have been independently evaluated by NSAI, a worldwide leader of petroleum property analysis for industry and financial organizations and government agencies. NSAI was founded in 1961 and performs consulting petroleum engineering services under Texas Board of Professional Engineers Registration No..
Within NSAI, the technical persons primarily responsible for preparing the estimates set forth in the NSAI reserves report incorporated herein are Mr. Richard B. Talley, Jr. and Mr. Edward C. Roy III. Mr. Talley, a Licensed Professional Engineer in the State of Texas (No. 102425) and in the State of Louisiana (No. 36998), has been practicing consulting petroleum engineering at NSAI since 2004 and has over 5 years of prior industry experience. He graduated from University of Oklahoma in 1998 with a Bachelor of Science degree in mechanical engineering and from Tulane University in 2001 with a Master of Business Administration degree. Mr. Roy, a Licensed Professional Geoscientist in the State of Texas, Geology (No. 2364), has been practicing consulting petroleum geoscience at NSAI since 2008 and has over 11 years of prior industry experience. He graduated from Texas Christian University in 1992 with a Bachelor of Science degree in geology and from Texas A&M University in 1998 with a Master of Science degree in geology. Both technical principals meet or exceed the education, training and experience requirements set forth in the Standards Pertaining to the Estimating and Auditing of Oil and Gas Reserves Information promulgated by the Society of Petroleum Engineers; both are proficient in judiciously applying industry standard practices to engineering and geoscience evaluations as well as applying SEC and other industry reserves definitions and guidelines.
Whiting’s Reserves and Reservoir Engineering Manager is responsible for overseeing the preparation of the reserves estimates under the supervision of Whiting’s Chief Operating Officer, Charles Rimer. Whiting’s Reserves and Reservoir Engineering Manager has more than 10 years of broad reservoir engineering experience in the oil and gas industry, focused across conventional and unconventional evaluation and development projects, including corporate reserves estimations. He holds a Bachelor of Science degree in petroleum engineering from the Colorado School of Mines and is a member of the Society of Petroleum Engineers.
Producing Acreage and Well Counts
For the following data, “gross” refers to the total wells or acres in the oil and natural gas properties in which Whiting owns a working interest and “net” refers to gross wells or acres multiplied by the percentage working interest owned by Whiting and in turn attributable to the underlying properties. Although many of Whiting’s wells produce both oil and natural gas, a well is categorized as an oil well or a natural gas well based upon the ratio of oil to natural gas production.
The underlying properties are mainly interests in developed properties located in oil and natural gas producing regions outlined in the chart below. The following is a summary of the number of fields and approximate acreage of these properties by region at December 31, 2020:
The following is a summary of the producing wells on the underlying properties as of December 31, 2020:
The following is a summary of the number of productive wells drilled on the underlying properties during the last three years. There were no dry wells drilled on the underlying properties during the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018. A productive well is an exploratory, development or extension well that is not a dry well. A dry well is an exploratory, development or extension well that proves to be incapable of producing either oil or natural gas in sufficient quantities to justify completion as an oil or gas well. The information should not be considered indicative of future performance, nor should it be assumed that there is necessarily any correlation between the number of productive wells drilled and quantities of reserves found.
As of December 31, 2020, no wells were in the process of being drilled or completed.
Oil and Natural Gas Production
The following table shows the sales volumes, average sales prices per Bbl of oil and Mcf of natural gas produced and the production costs per BOE for the underlying properties. Sales volumes for natural gas liquids are included with oil sales since they were not material.
____________
(1)Oil includes natural gas liquids.
(2)The Keystone field was the only field that contained 15% or more of the total proved reserve volumes of the underlying properties as of December 31, 2020. The Garland and Keystone fields were the only fields that contained 15% or more of the total proved reserve volumes of the underlying properties as of December 31, 2019 and 2018
(3)Production costs reported above exclude from lease operating expenses ad valorem taxes of $1.2 million ($1.33/BOE), $1.5 million ($1.40/BOE) and $1.6 million ($1.38/BOE) for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
Certain of the Trust’s wells are included in eight separate enhanced oil recovery waterflood projects, which include both secondary (waterflood) and tertiary (CO2 injection) recovery efforts. Aggregate production from such enhanced oil recovery fields averaged 967 BOE/d during 2020 or 38% of 2020 daily production from the underlying properties. For these areas, the operator needs to use enhanced recovery techniques in order to maintain oil and gas production from these fields.
Delivery Commitments
Neither the Trust nor the underlying properties are committed to deliver fixed quantities of oil or natural gas in the future under existing contracts or agreements.
Major Producing Areas
The underlying properties are located in several major onshore producing basins in the continental United States. However, even this broad distribution may not provide protection against regional trends that may negatively impact production or prices. Based on the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows at December 31, 2020, approximately 72% of these properties were operated by Whiting. Based on annual 2020 production attributable to the underlying properties, approximately 85% of production was crude oil and natural gas liquids and 15% of production was natural gas. These properties are located in mature fields and have established production profiles. However, production and distributions to the Trust will continue to decline over time.
Permian Basin Region. The Permian Basin region is one of the major hydrocarbon producing provinces in the continental United States. The underlying properties in the Permian Basin region are located in Texas and New Mexico. These properties consist of 16 fields of which Whiting operates wells in 12. The major fields in this region include the Keystone South field that produces from the Clear Fork, Wolfcamp, Wichita Albany and Ellenberger zones; the Martin field that produces from the Clear Fork and Wichita Albany zones; the DEB field that produces from the Wolfcamp zone; the Signal Peak field that produces from the Wolfcamp zone; and the Sable field that produces from the San Andres zone. For the year ended December 31, 2020, the net production attributable to the underlying properties in this region was 415.1 MBOE or 1.1 MBOE/d.
Rocky Mountains Region. The underlying properties in the Rocky Mountains region are located in Colorado, Wyoming, North Dakota and Montana. These properties consist of 12 fields of which Whiting operates wells in three. The Trust’s NPI does not include any of Whiting’s interests in the Bakken and Three Forks formations. The major fields in this region include the Rangely field that produces from the Weber Sand zone; the Garland field that produces from the Madison and Tensleep zones; the Cedar Hills field that produces from the Red River zone; and the Whiting-operated Torchlight field that produces from the Madison and Tensleep zones. For the year ended December 31, 2020, the net production attributable to the underlying properties in this region was 416.1 MBOE or 1.1 MBOE/d.
Gulf Coast Region. The underlying properties in the Gulf Coast region are located in Texas and Mississippi. These properties consist of eight onshore fields, and Whiting operates wells in four. The major field in this region is the Whiting-operated Lake Como field located in Mississippi that produces from the Smackover formation. For the year ended December 31, 2020, the net production attributable to the underlying properties in this region was 75.7 MBOE or 0.2 MBOE/d.
Mid-Continent Region. The underlying properties in the Mid-Continent region are located in Michigan, Arkansas, Oklahoma and Texas. These properties consist of six fields of which Whiting operates wells in two. The major field in this region is the Whiting-operated Wesson field located in Arkansas that produces from the Hogg Sand zone. For the year ended December 31, 2020, the net production attributable to the underlying properties in this region was 15.3 MBOE or 0.1 MBOE/d.
Abandonment, Sale, and Farm-out of Underlying Properties
Any operator of the underlying properties, including Whiting, has the right to abandon its interest in any well or property comprising a portion of the underlying properties if, in its opinion, such well or property ceases to produce or is not capable of producing in commercially paying quantities. To reduce the potential conflict of interest between Whiting and the Trust in determining whether a well is capable of producing in commercially paying quantities, Whiting has agreed to operate the underlying properties as a reasonably prudent operator in the same manner that it would operate these properties if they were not burdened by the NPI. In addition, Whiting has agreed to use commercially reasonable efforts to cause the other operators to operate these properties in the same manner. However,
Whiting’s ability to cause other operators to take certain actions is limited. For the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, there were five, zero and five gross wells, respectively, that were plugged and abandoned on the underlying properties, based on the determination that such wells were no longer economic to operate.
Divestitures. Whiting may, without the consent of the Trust unitholders, require the Trust to sell the NPI associated with any well or lease that accounts for less than or equal to 0.25% of the total production from the underlying properties in the prior 12 months, provided that the NPI covered by such releases cannot exceed, during any 12-month period, an aggregate fair market value to the Trust of $1.0 million. These releases will be made only in connection with a sale by Whiting of the relevant underlying properties and are conditioned upon the Trust receiving an amount equal to the fair value to the Trust of such portion of the NPI. Any net sales proceeds paid to the Trust are distributable to Trust unitholders for the quarter in which they are received. No sales of oil and gas wells occurred during the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018.
Farm-out agreements. For the underlying properties for which Whiting is the designated operator, it may enter into farm-out, operating, participation and other similar agreements with respect to the property. Whiting may enter into any of these agreements without the consent or approval of the Trustee or any Trust unitholder. In an effort to develop the underlying properties while limiting additional capital expenditures for the Trust and prior to December 31, 2020, Whiting Oil and Gas entered into three farm-out agreements with a third-party partner covering (i) 5,127 gross acres in eight leasehold sections within the Keystone South field in Winkler, Texas in April 2016, as amended in July 2020 (the “Keystone South farm-out”), (ii) 9,740 gross acres in approximately 15 units (which unit size is determined by the lateral well length) within the Signal Peak field in Howard County, Texas in February 2017, as amended in May 2018, September 2019 and February 2020 (the “Signal Peak farm-out”) and (iii) 640 gross acres in one leasehold section within the Flying W, SE field in Winkler County, Texas in March 2017 (the “Flying W farm-out”).
These farm-out agreements provide the third-party partner with the option, but not the obligation, to drill one well in each of the leasehold sections or units, as the case may be, subject to the applicable farm-out agreement, whereby the partner will pay 100% of the related drilling and well completion costs to earn a 75% working interest. As a result, the applicable underlying properties will consist of (i) 25% of the original working interest in these properties and (ii) an overriding royalty interest equal to the difference between 25% and the lease burdens of record. Upon completion of one well in each section or unit, as the case may be, pursuant to the terms of the applicable agreements, the partner has the option to drill (i) up to 15 additional wells under the Keystone South farm-out, (ii) up to 12 additional wells under the Signal Peak farm-out and (iii) one additional well under the Flying W farm-out. For each of these additional optional wells, the partner is required to pay 85% of the drilling and well completion costs otherwise ascribed to the underlying properties for a 75% working interest. Given the Trust’s interest in the NPI, the Trust would be responsible for 13.5% of the underlying properties’ remaining drilling and well completion costs at the 90% NPI, subject to the average annual capital expenditure amount limitation as described in the “Computation of Net Proceeds” section in Item I of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
The third-party partner drilled and completed the first three wells pursuant to the terms of the Keystone South farm-out agreement during 2017, a fourth well was drilled and completed during the second quarter of 2018, a fifth well was drilled and completed during the fourth quarter of 2019, and a sixth well was drilled in the first quarter of 2021 which is scheduled for completion before the second quarter of 2021, whereby the partner earned a 75% working interest in each of the underlying properties’ respective leasehold sections. The partner has no obligation to drill and complete any additional wells, and the Keystone South farm-out agreement will terminate during the fourth quarter of 2021 if no additional drilling has commenced by that time.
During the fourth quarter of 2019, the third-party partner drilled and completed the first well under the Signal Peak farm-out, whereby the partner earned a 75% working interest in the underlying properties’ respective leasehold section. The partner has no obligation to drill and complete any additional wells, and the Signal Peak farmout will terminate during the fourth quarter of 2021 if no additional drilling has commenced by that time.
In addition, the partner drilled and completed the first well under the Flying W farm-out during the second quarter of 2018, whereby the partner earned a 75% working interest in the underlying properties’ respective leasehold section.
Additionally, in February 2021, Whiting entered into an additional farm-out agreement with a third-party partner, which agreement covers 1,091 gross acres within the Agua Dulce field in Nueces County, Texas. The agreement provides the partner with the option, but not the obligation, to drill one well in each of the two leasehold sections subject to the farm-out agreement, whereby the partner will pay 100% of the related drilling and well completion costs to earn a 90% working interest, which results in the underlying properties retaining (i) a 10% working interest and (ii) an overriding royalty interest equal to the difference between 24% and the lease burdens of record, without incurring any capital costs for these wells. Pursuant to the terms of the agreement, within 365 days of the completion of either well in either section, the partner has the option to drill a second well in the respective section where the underlying properties can elect
to receive a 10% working interest or a 5% carried working interest. Upon completion of a second well in either section, the partner has the option to drill subsequent wells in either section where the underlying properties can retain a 10% working interest (if such option was elected for the respective second well) or can receive a 5% working interest or a 2.5% carried working interest.
Title to Properties
The underlying properties are subject to certain burdens that are described in more detail below. To the extent that these burdens and obligations affect Whiting’s rights to production and the value of production from the underlying properties, they have been taken into account in calculating the Trust’s interests and in estimating the size and value of the reserves attributable to the underlying properties.
Whiting’s interests in the oil and natural gas properties comprising the underlying properties are typically subject, in one degree or another, to one or more of the following:
●royalties and other burdens on production, express and implied, under oil and natural gas leases;
●overriding royalties, production payments and similar interests and other burdens on production created by Whiting or its predecessors in title;
●a variety of contractual obligations arising under operating agreements, farm-out agreements, production sales contracts and other agreements that may affect these properties or Whiting’s title thereto;
●liens that arise in the normal course of operations, such as those for unpaid taxes, statutory liens securing unpaid suppliers and contractors and contractual liens under operating agreements that are not yet delinquent or, if delinquent, are being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings;
●pooling, unitization and communitization agreements, declarations and orders;
●easements, restrictions, rights-of-way and other matters that commonly affect property;
●conventional rights of reassignment that obligate Whiting to reassign all or part of a property to a third party if Whiting intends to release or abandon such property; and
●rights reserved to or vested in the appropriate governmental agency or authority to control or regulate the underlying properties and the NPI therein.
Whiting has informed the Trustee that Whiting believes the burdens and obligations affecting the oil and natural gas properties comprising the underlying properties are conventional in the industry for similar properties. Whiting also has informed the Trustee that Whiting believes that the existing burdens and obligations do not, in the aggregate, materially interfere with the use of the underlying properties and do not materially adversely affect the value of the NPI.
At the time of its acquisitions of the underlying properties, Whiting undertook a title examination of these properties. As such, Whiting has informed the Trustee that Whiting believes its title to the underlying properties is, and the Trust’s title to the net profits interest is, good and defensible in accordance with standards generally accepted in the oil and gas industry, subject to such exceptions as are not so material to detract substantially from the use or value of such properties or royalty interests.
Net profits interests are non-operating, non-possessory interests carved out of the oil and natural gas leasehold estate, but some jurisdictions have not directly determined whether a NPI is a real or a personal property interest. Whiting has recorded the conveyance of the NPI in the relevant real property records of all applicable jurisdictions. Whiting has informed the Trustee that Whiting believes the delivery and recording of the conveyance creates a fully conveyed and vested property interest under the applicable state’s laws, but because there is no direct authority to this effect in some jurisdictions, this may not always be the result. Whiting has also informed the Trustee that Whiting believes that it is possible the NPI may not be treated as a real property interest under the laws of certain of the jurisdictions where the underlying properties are located. Whiting has also informed the Trustee that Whiting believes that, if, during the term of the NPI, Whiting becomes involved as a debtor in a bankruptcy proceeding, the NPI relating to the underlying properties in most, if not all, of the jurisdictions should be treated as a fully conveyed property interest. In such a proceeding, however, a determination could be made that the conveyance constitutes an executory contract and the NPI is not a fully conveyed property interest under the laws of the applicable jurisdiction, and if such contract were not to be assumed in a bankruptcy proceeding involving Whiting, the Trust would be treated as an unsecured creditor of Whiting with respect to the NPI in the pending bankruptcy proceeding. Although no assurance can be given, Whiting has informed the Trustee that Whiting believes that the conveyance of the NPI relating to the underlying properties in most, if not all, of the jurisdictions of which these properties are located should not be subject to rejection in a bankruptcy proceeding as an executory contract.
Item 3.