Item 2. Properties.
Description of the Underlying Properties
The Underlying Properties consist of producing and non-producing interests in oil units, wells and lands located onshore in California in the Santa Maria Basin, which contains PCEC's Orcutt properties, and the Los Angeles Basin, which contains PCEC's West Pico, East Coyote and Sawtelle properties.
The Underlying Properties are located in areas with significant histories of oil and natural gas production. The Santa Maria and Los Angeles Basins are some of California's longest producing oil regions. Oil reserves in the Santa Maria Basin were discovered in 1901, and the basin has produced over one billion Bbls of oil since that time. Oil reserves in the Los Angeles Basin were discovered in 1892, and the basin has produced over nine billion Bbls of oil since that time. Long producing histories in the Santa Maria and Los Angeles Basins provide for well-established production profiles and increased certainty of production estimates.
PCEC acquired its Orcutt properties in the Santa Maria Basin in 2004. PCEC operates approximately 100% of the average daily production associated with these assets and has an average working interest and net revenue interest of approximately 97% and 94%, respectively, in its Orcutt properties. PCEC acquired its West Pico and Sawtelle properties in the Los Angeles Basin in 1993 and acquired its East Coyote properties in 1999 and 2000. PCEC operated approximately 95% of the average daily production associated with its West Pico properties in the Los Angeles Basin during 2012 and its interests in Sawtelle and East Coyote were operated by BreitBurn Operating L.P., a subsidiary of BreitBurn Energy Partners L.P.
As of December 31, 2012, the Underlying Properties had proved reserves of 33.7 MMBoe. As of December 31, 2012, approximately 71% of the volumes of the proved reserves associated with the Underlying Properties and 85% of the volumes of the proved reserves associated with the Trust were attributed to proved developed reserves. Proved developed reserves are the most valuable and lowest risk category of reserves because their production requires no significant future development expenses. In addition, 100% of the Underlying Properties are held by production or owned in fee. Average net sales (after royalties and other interests) from the Underlying Properties for the twelve months ended December 31, 2012 were approximately 3,121 Boe/d (or 2,662 Boe/d attributable to 80% of proved developed reserves on the Underlying Properties), comprised of approximately 98% oil.
PCEC's interests in the Underlying Properties require PCEC to bear its proportionate share of the costs of development and operation of such properties. The Underlying Properties are burdened by non-cost bearing interests owned by third parties consisting primarily of overriding royalty and royalty interests.
Reserves
Netherland, Sewell & Associates, Inc., independent petroleum and geological engineers, estimated crude oil (including natural gas liquids) and natural gas proved reserves of the Underlying Properties' full economic life and for the Trust life as of December 31, 2012. Numerous uncertainties are inherent in estimating reserve volumes and values, and the estimates are subject to change as additional information becomes available. The reserves actually recovered and the timing of production of the reserves may vary significantly from the original estimates. The technical person primarily responsible for overseeing the preparation of the reserve estimates and the third-party reserve reports is Mark L. Pease, the Chief Operating Officer of our General Partner. Mr. Pease received a Bachelor of Science in Petroleum Engineering from the Colorado School of Mines in 1979. Prior to joining our General
Partner, Mr. Pease was Senior Vice President, E&P Technology & Services for Anadarko Petroleum Corporation. Mr. Pease has over 30 years of experience working in various capacities in the energy industry, including acquisition analysis, reserve estimation, reservoir engineering and operations engineering. Mr. Pease consults with Netherland, Sewell & Associates, Inc. during the reserve estimation process to review properties, assumptions and relevant data.
See Appendix A to this report for the estimates of proved reserves provided by Netherland, Sewell & Associates, Inc. Within NSAI, the technical persons primarily responsible for preparing the estimates set forth in the NSAI reserves report included in this report are Mr. J. Carter Henson, Jr. and Mr. Mike K. Norton. Mr. Henson has been practicing consulting petroleum engineering at NSAI since 1989. He is a Licensed Professional Engineer in the State of Texas (License No. 73964) and has over 30 years of practical experience in petroleum engineering, with over 22 years experience in the estimation and evaluation of reserves. He graduated from Rice University in 1981 with a Bachelor of Science Degree in Mechanical Engineering. Mr. Mike K. Norton has been practicing consulting petroleum geology at NSAI since 1989. Mr. Norton is a Licensed Petroleum Geologist in the State of Texas (License No. 441) and has over 34 years of practical experience in petroleum geosciences, with over 29 years experience in the estimation and evaluation of reserves. He graduated from Texas A&M University in 1978 with a Bachelor of Science Degree in Geology. Both technical principals meet or exceed the education, training, and experience requirements set forth in the Standards Pertaining to the Estimating and Auditing of Oil and Gas Reserves Information promulgated by the Society of Petroleum Engineers; both are proficient in judiciously applying industry standard practices to engineering and geoscience evaluations as well as applying SEC and other industry reserves definitions and guidelines.
Information concerning changes in net proved reserves attributable to the Trust, and the calculation of the standardized measure of the related discounted future net revenues is contained in Supplemental Note A to the financial statements of the Trust included in this Form 10-K. PCEC has not filed reserve estimates covering the Underlying Properties with any other federal authority or agency.
The following table summarizes the estimated proved reserve quantities and discounted future net cash flows attributable to the Trust and Underlying Properties as of December 31, 2012:
(a)Estimated proved reserves of oil include condensate and natural gas liquids.
The Financial Accounting Standards Board requires supplemental disclosures for oil and gas producers based on a standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows relating to proved oil and gas reserve quantities. Under this disclosure, future cash inflows are computed by applying the average prices during the 12-month period prior to fiscal year-end, determined as an unweighted arithmetic average of the first-day-of-the-month benchmark price for each month within such period,
unless prices are defined by contractual arrangements, excluding escalations based upon future conditions. Future price changes are only considered to the extent provided by contractual arrangements in existence at year end. The standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows is achieved by using a discount rate of 10% a year to reflect the timing of future cash flows relating to proved oil and gas reserves.
The changes in standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows relating to proved oil and natural gas reserves attributable to the Trust for the period from Inception through December 31, 2012 are as follows (in thousands):
Average oil and natural gas prices of $94.71 per barrel and $2.76 per Mcf were used to determine the estimated future net revenues from the Underlying Properties at December 31, 2012.
The estimates are for proved reserves only and do not include any probable or possible reserves nor have any values been attributed to interest in acreage beyond the location for which undeveloped reserves have been estimated.
Producing Acreage and Well Counts
For the following data, "gross" refers to the total number of wells or acres in which PCEC owns a working interest and "net" refers to gross wells or acres multiplied by the percentage working interest owned by PCEC. All of the acreage comprising the Underlying Properties is held by production. Although many of PCEC's wells produce both oil and associated natural gas, because the majority of production is oil-based, all of PCEC's wells are classified as oil wells. The Underlying Properties are interests in properties located in the Santa Maria Basin and Los Angeles Basin. The following is a summary of the approximate acreage of the Underlying Properties at December 31, 2012.
The following is a summary of the producing wells on the Underlying Properties as of December 31, 2012:
(1)Total wells include 253 operated wells, 57 wells operated by BreitBurn Operating L.P., a subsidiary of BreitBurn Energy Partners L.P. and three wells operated by Plains Exploration & Production Company ("PXP").
The following is a summary of the number of development wells drilled on the Underlying Properties during 2012.
(1)There was one well in progress at December 31, 2012.
Santa Maria Basin
The Santa Maria Basin consists primarily of oil reserves and prospects in multiple geologic horizons and is one of California's largest producing oil regions. Conventional production from PCEC's Orcutt properties is derived from the Monterey, Point Sal and SX Sand formations, which are characterized by long-lived reserves. In addition, the Diatomite and Careaga formations, located at depths less than 900 feet below the surface, provide access to unconventional oil reserves. The portion of the Underlying Properties located in the Orcutt oilfield consists of 4,578 gross (3,704 net) acres.
The following table sets forth the productive zones, recovery method and certain additional information related to the Orcutt properties in the Santa Maria Basin included in the Underlying Properties:
Orcutt Conventional
The Orcutt oilfield was discovered in 1901 and has produced continuously since that time. Initial production from the Orcutt oilfield came from the Monterey and Point Sal formations, which are
located at depths between 1,700 and 2,700 feet below the surface. The Monterey formation in the Orcutt oilfield is a fractured dolomitic shale that is highly productive. The Point Sal formation is a shallow marine deposited turbidite sandstone that is also highly productive. Oil recovery from these formations is enhanced by waterflood injection. Beginning in 2005 the SX formation underlying PCEC's Orcutt properties was developed. The SX formation is a silty sandstone at a depth of 1,300 feet below the surface. A waterflood was initiated for the SX formation in 2009 to maintain reservoir pressure. The producing wells are all artificially lifted with rod pumps and electric submersible pumps. There are currently 125 Monterey, Point Sal and SX formation producing wells, and 58 waterflood injection wells on PCEC's conventional Orcutt properties. PCEC has operated its Orcutt properties for over seven years. PCEC operates 100% of these assets and has an average working interest of approximately 95%.
Orcutt Diatomite
The Diatomite is a massive silica-rich rock composed of the shells of single-cell organisms that were abundant during certain geologic periods. A Diatomite formation has very high porosity (up to 70%) but very low permeability, meaning fluids will not flow through the rock. Enhanced recovery techniques are used to produce oil from a Diatomite formation. In the 1990s, companies in California began to develop the Diatomite formation utilizing cyclic steam injection to enable oil recovery. These Diatomite formations have very high oil content but are unable to flow oil to a well bore without the cyclic steam injection. The recovery process in the Diatomite consists of injecting steam into each well, letting the steam soak for one to two days, and then producing the well by flowing the hot oil and water to surface. The process is sometimes enhanced by pumping the oil and water for one to four weeks, until the well is ready to be steamed again.
The Diatomite formation in the Orcutt oilfield is a shallow zone that lies approximately 100 to 900 feet below the surface. PCEC began cyclic steam development in 2005 and was producing 49 Diatomite wells using the process described above as of December 31, 2012. PCEC began a project expansion in 2011 to increase the total Diatomite project to 96 wells.
PCEC has targeted the Diatomite formation at depths greater than 400 feet below the surface for development, the area of which covers 750 acres within PCEC's Orcutt properties. PCEC has developed approximately 30 acres to date, and produced over 420 MBoe from the Diatomite oilfield.
Careaga formation
Overlying the Diatomite formation in the Orcutt oilfield is the Careaga sandstone reservoir. The Careaga outcrops at the surface in some locations and extends to depths of 90 to 160 feet below the surface. This reservoir contains very heavy oil (11 degree API) that can flow to the surface through seeps. PCEC is collecting the Careaga oil that flows to the surface in containers utilizing a French drain system to gather the oil. PCEC is producing approximately 130 Bbls/d of the Careaga oil that is pumped from the containers and sold with the rest of its crude oil production.
Los Angeles Basin
The Underlying Properties in the Los Angeles Basin consist of the West Pico, Sawtelle and East Coyote properties. The portion of the Underlying Properties located in the Los Angeles Basin consists of 2,107 gross (1,082 net) acres
The following table sets forth the recovery method and certain additional information about the oil fields in the Los Angeles Basin included in the Underlying Properties:
(1)Located in the East Beverly Hills field and includes the West Pico Unit and three Stocker JV wells (a joint venture between PCEC and PXP).
West Pico
The West Pico Unit was developed from an urban drilling and production site and came on production in 1966. In 2000, PCEC undertook a modernization of its facility and installed a permanently enclosed, electric, soundproof drilling and workover rig that allows for uninterrupted drilling and workover operations despite its close proximity to residential neighborhoods. Production from the West Pico Unit comes from sandstone reservoirs ranging in depths between 4,000 and 7,000 feet below the surface. Oil recovery is enhanced by waterflood injection. The producing wells in the West Pico Unit are all artificially lifted with rod pumps and electric submersible pumps. There are currently 37 producing wells and 6 waterflood injection wells in the West Pico Unit. Twelve new wells have been drilled from this location since 2003. PCEC has the potential to drill up to 15 additional wells in the West Pico Unit.
West Pico also includes three wells held by the Stocker JV, a joint venture between PCEC and PXP. In accordance with the contractual arrangements with PXP, PXP operates these three wells that were drilled from its facility to three lease line locations between PXP's and PCEC's production units. These wells are equally owned by PCEC and PXP, and PCEC receives the production attributable to its properties.
Sawtelle
PCEC's Sawtelle property is similarly situated in an urban environment. The Sawtelle oilfield was discovered in 1965 and is currently the deepest producing oilfield in the Los Angeles Basin with well depths up to 11,500 feet below the surface. Production at PCEC's Sawtelle property comes from sandstone reservoirs in three separate pools ranging in depth between 7,500 and 11,500 feet below the surface. Oil recovery is enhanced by waterflood injection in two of the three pools. The producing wells are all artificially lifted with hydraulic pumps, and electric submersible pumps. There are currently 11 producing wells and three waterflood injection wells in PCEC's Sawtelle property. PCEC's non-operated interest in the Sawtelle field is operated by BreitBurn Operating L.P., a subsidiary of BreitBurn Energy Partners L.P.
East Coyote
The East Coyote oilfield was discovered in 1909. Production at PCEC's East Coyote property comes from three sandstone formations ranging in depth from 2,000 to 6,000 feet below the surface. The producing wells are all artificially lifted with rod pumps and electric submersible pumps. There are currently 46 producing wells, and 14 waterflood injection wells in PCEC's East Coyote property. PCEC's non-operated interest in the East Coyote field is operated by BreitBurn Operating L.P., a subsidiary of BreitBurn Energy Partners L.P.
Abandonment and Sale of Underlying Properties
PCEC or any transferee has the right to abandon its interest in any well or property if it reasonably believes a well or property ceases to produce or is not capable of producing in commercially paying quantities. Upon termination of the lease, the portion of the Conveyed Interests relating to the abandoned property will be extinguished.
PCEC generally may sell all or a portion of its interests in the Underlying Properties, subject to and burdened by the Conveyed Interests, without the consent of the Trust unitholders. In connection with any such sale, PCEC will have no further obligations, requirements or responsibilities with respect to any such transferred interests, provided that PCEC delivers to the Trustee an agreement of the transferee of such transferred interests, reasonably satisfactory to the Trustee, in which such transferee assumes the responsibility to perform the Administrative Services that PCEC is required to provide to the Trust pursuant to the operating and services agreement relating to the interests being transferred. In addition, PCEC may, without the consent of the Trust unitholders, require the Trust to release the Conveyed Interests associated with any lease that accounts for less than or equal to 0.25% of the total production from the Underlying Properties in the prior twelve months and provided that the Conveyed Interests covered by such releases cannot exceed, during any twelve month period, an aggregate fair market value to the Trust of $500,000. These releases will be made only in connection with a sale by PCEC to a non-affiliate of the relevant Underlying Properties, are conditioned upon the Trust receiving an amount equal to the fair market value (net of sales costs) to the Trust of such Conveyed Interests and will be treated as an offset amount against costs and expenses. PCEC has not identified for sale any of the Underlying Properties.
Title to Properties
The properties comprising the Underlying Properties are or may be subject to one or more of the burdens and obligations described below. To the extent that these burdens and obligations affect PCEC's rights to production or the value of production from the Underlying Properties, they have been taken into account in calculating the Trust's interests and in estimating the size and the value of the reserves attributable to the Underlying Properties.
PCEC's interests in the oil and natural gas properties comprising the Underlying Properties are typically subject, in one degree or another, to one or more of the following:
•royalties and other burdens, express and implied, under oil and natural gas leases and other arrangements;
•overriding royalties, production payments and similar interests and other burdens created by PCEC's predecessors in title;
•a variety of contractual obligations arising under operating agreements, farm-out agreements, production sales contracts and other agreements that may affect the Underlying Properties or their title;
•liens that arise in the normal course of operations, such as those for unpaid taxes, statutory liens securing unpaid suppliers and contractors and contractual liens under operating agreements that are not yet delinquent or, if delinquent, are being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings;
•pooling, unitization and communitization agreements, declarations and orders;
•easements, restrictions, rights-of-way and other matters that commonly affect property;
•conventional rights of reassignment that obligate PCEC to reassign all or part of a property to a third party if PCEC intends to release or abandon such property;
•preferential rights to purchase or similar agreements and required third-party consents to assignments or similar agreements;
•obligations or duties affecting the Underlying Properties to any municipality or public authority with respect to any franchise, grant, license or permit, and all applicable laws, rules, regulations and orders of any governmental authority; and
•rights reserved to or vested in the appropriate governmental agency or authority to control or regulate the Underlying Properties and also the interests held therein, including PCEC's interests and the Conveyed Interests.
PCEC has informed the Trustee that PCEC believes that the burdens and obligations affecting the properties comprising the Underlying Properties are conventional in the industry for similar properties. PCEC has also informed the Trustee that PCEC believes that the existing burdens and obligations do not, in the aggregate, materially interfere with the use of the Underlying Properties and will not materially adversely affect the Conveyed Interests or their value.
In order to give third parties notice of the Conveyed Interests, PCEC has recorded the conveyance of the Conveyed Interests in California in the real property records in each county in which the Underlying Properties are located, or in such other public records as required under California law to place third parties on notice of the conveyance.
PCEC believes that its title to the Underlying Properties is, and the Trust's title to the Conveyed Interests are, good and defensible in accordance with standards generally accepted in the oil and gas industry, subject to such exceptions as are not so material to detract substantially from the use or value of such properties or royalty interests. Under the terms of the Conveyance creating the Conveyed Interests, PCEC has provided a special warranty of title with respect to the Conveyed Interests, subject to the burdens and obligations described in this section. Please read "Risk Factors-The Trust Units may lose value as a result of title deficiencies with respect to the Underlying Properties."
Item 3.