Item 2. Properties.
Description of the Underlying Properties
The Underlying Properties consist of producing and non-producing interests in oil units, wells and lands located onshore in California in the Santa Maria Basin, which contains PCEC’s Orcutt properties, and the Los Angeles Basin, which contains PCEC’s West Pico, East Coyote and Sawtelle properties.
PCEC acquired its Orcutt properties in the Santa Maria Basin in 2004. PCEC operates 100% of the average daily production associated with these assets and has an average working interest and net revenue interest of approximately 98% and 95%, respectively, in its Orcutt properties. PCEC acquired its West Pico and Sawtelle properties in the Los Angeles Basin in 1993 and acquired its East Coyote properties in 1999 and 2000. PCEC operated approximately 95% of the average daily production associated with its West Pico properties in the Los Angeles Basin during 2013 and its interests in Sawtelle and East Coyote were operated by Breitburn Operating LP (“BOLP”), a subsidiary of Breitburn Energy Partners LP.
As of December 31, 2015, the Underlying Properties had proved reserves of 23.1 MMBoe. As of December 31, 2015, approximately 61% of the volumes of the proved reserves associated with the Underlying Properties and 78% of the volumes of the proved reserves associated with the Trust were attributed to proved developed reserves. Proved developed reserves are the most valuable and lowest risk category of reserves because their production requires no significant future development expenses. In addition, 100% of the Underlying Properties are held by production or owned in fee. For the year ended December 31, 2015, the average net sales (after royalties and other interests) were approximately 3,105 Boe/d from the Underlying Properties and 807 Boe/d from the Remaining Properties. In 2015, approximately 96% of production from the Underlying Properties consisted of oil and 100% of the production from the Remaining Properties consisted of oil.
PCEC’s interests in the Underlying Properties require PCEC to bear its proportionate share of the costs of development and operation of such properties. The Underlying Properties are burdened by non-cost bearing interests owned by third parties consisting primarily of overriding royalty and royalty interests.
Reserves
Netherland, Sewell & Associates, Inc. (“NSAI”), independent petroleum and geological engineers, estimated crude oil, NGL and natural gas proved reserves of the Underlying Properties’ full economic life and for the Trust life as of December 31, 2015. Numerous uncertainties are inherent in estimating reserve volumes and values, and the estimates are subject to change as additional information becomes available. The reserves actually recovered and the timing of production of the reserves may vary significantly from the original estimates. The technical person primarily responsible for overseeing the preparation of the reserve estimates and the
third-party reserve reports is Mark L. Pease, the Chief Operating Officer of PCEC’s General Partner. Mr. Pease received a Bachelor of Science in Petroleum Engineering from the Colorado School of Mines in 1979. Prior to joining PCEC’s General Partner, Mr. Pease was Senior Vice President, E&P Technology & Services for Anadarko Petroleum Corporation. Mr. Pease has over 30 years of experience working in various capacities in the energy industry, including acquisition analysis, reserve estimation, reservoir engineering and operations engineering. Mr. Pease consults with NSAI during the reserve estimation process to review properties, assumptions and relevant data.
See Appendix A to this Annual Report for the estimates of proved reserves provided by NSAI. Within NSAI, the technical persons primarily responsible for preparing the estimates set forth in the NSAI reserves report incorporated herein are Mr. C. Ashley Smith and Mr. Mike K. Norton. Mr. Smith, a Licensed Professional Engineer in the State of Texas (No. 100560), has been practicing consulting petroleum engineering at NSAI since 2006 and has over 5 years of prior industry experience. He graduated from University of Missouri-Rolla (Missouri University of Science & Technology) in 2000 with a Bachelor of Science Degree in Petroleum Engineering. Mr. Norton, a Licensed Professional Geoscientist in the State of Texas, Geology (No. 441), has been practicing consulting petroleum geoscience at NSAI since 1989 and has over 10 years of prior industry experience. He graduated from Texas A&M University in 1978 with a Bachelor of Science Degree in Geology. Both technical principals meet or exceed the education, training, and experience requirements set forth in the Standards Pertaining to the Estimating and Auditing of Oil and Gas Reserves Information promulgated by the Society of Petroleum Engineers; both are proficient in judiciously applying industry standard practices to engineering and geoscience evaluations as well as applying SEC and other industry reserves definitions and guidelines.
Information concerning changes in net proved reserves attributable to the Trust, and the calculation of the standardized measure of the related discounted future net revenues is contained in Supplemental Note A to the financial statements of the Trust included in this Annual Report. PCEC has not filed reserve estimates covering the Underlying Properties with any other federal authority or agency.
The following table summarizes the estimated proved reserve quantities and discounted future net cash flows attributable to the Trust and Underlying Properties as of December 31, 2015:
(a) Estimated proved reserves of oil include condensate and natural gas liquids.
Proved undeveloped reserves decreased by 648 MBoe to 1,036 MBoe at the end of 2015 compared to 1,684 MBoe at the end of 2014. The decrease was primarily a result of lower commodity prices. There were no conversions of proved undeveloped reserves to developed reserves during the year ended December 31, 2015. As of December 31, 2015, there were no estimated proved undeveloped reserves that have remained undeveloped for more than five years, and it is expected that all estimated proved undeveloped reserves will be developed within five years of the recognition of those reserves.
The Financial Accounting Standards Board requires supplemental disclosures for oil and natural gas producers based on a standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows relating to proved oil and natural gas reserve quantities. Under this disclosure, future cash inflows are computed by applying the average prices during the 12-month period prior to fiscal year-end, determined as an unweighted arithmetic average of the first-day-of-the-month benchmark price for each month within such period, unless prices are defined by contractual arrangements, excluding escalations based upon future conditions. Future price changes are only considered to the extent provided by contractual arrangements in existence at year end. The standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows is achieved by using a discount rate of 10% a year to reflect the timing of future cash flows relating to proved oil and natural gas reserves.
The changes in standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows relating to proved oil and natural gas reserves attributable to the Trust for the three years ended December 31, 2015, 2014, and 2013 were as follows:
(a) Certain reclassifications have been made to our 2014 and 2013 amounts noted to conform them to the 2015 presentation.
The average adjusted production prices weighted by production over the remaining lives of the properties are $44.08 per barrel of oil and $2.81 per MCF of gas for net proved reserves attributable to the Trust. The average adjusted production prices weighted by production over the remaining lives of the properties are $43.20 per barrel of oil, $39.78 per barrel of NGL, and $2.68 per MCF of gas for net proved reserves attributable to the Underlying Properties.
The recent significant decline in oil and natural gas prices increases the uncertainty as to the impact of commodity prices on our estimated proved reserves. We are unable to predict future commodity prices with any greater precision than the futures market. A prolonged period of depressed commodity prices may have a significant impact on the volumetric quantities of our proved reserve portfolio. For example, if the SEC prices used for our December 31, 2015 reserve report had been 10% less per Bbl and 10% less per MMBtu, respectively, then the standardized measure of our estimated proved reserves as of December 31, 2015 would have decreased by approximately $25.5 million, from $109.2 million to $83.7 million.
Production and Price History
The production and price history for the Developed and Remaining Properties for the year ended December 31, 2015 was primarily associated with the net profits for oil and natural gas production during the months of November and December 2014 and January through October 2015. The production and price history for the Developed and Remaining Properties during 2014 was primarily associated with net profits for oil and natural gas production during the months of November and December 2013 and January through October 2014. The production and price history for the Developed and Remaining Properties during 2013 was primarily associated with net profits for oil and natural gas production during the months of November and December 2012 and January through October 2013.
The following table summarizes our production and sales prices of oil and natural gas for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013:
(a) Oil sales represented 96% of total sales volumes from the Developed Properties for the year ended December 31, 2015, and 97% of total sales volumes from the Developed Properties for both the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively.
(b) Oil sales represented 100% of total sales volumes from the Remaining Properties for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively.
Producing Acreage and Well Counts
All of the acreage composing the Underlying Properties is held by production. Although many of PCEC’s wells produce both oil and associated natural gas, because the majority of production is oil-based, all of PCEC’s wells are classified as oil wells. The Underlying Properties are interests in properties located in the Santa Maria Basin and Los Angeles Basin. The following is a summary of the approximate acreage of the Underlying Properties at December 31, 2015:
The following is a summary of the producing wells on the Underlying Properties as of December 31, 2015:
(1) Total wells include 271 wells operated by PCEC, 65 wells operated by BOLP and three wells operated by Freeport McMoRan Oil & Gas, Inc. “FMI”.
The following is a summary of the number of development wells drilled on the Underlying Properties during 2015, 2014 and 2013:
(1) There were no wells in progress at the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013.
Santa Maria Basin
The Santa Maria Basin consists primarily of oil reserves and prospects in multiple geologic horizons and is one of California’s largest producing oil regions. Conventional production from PCEC’s Orcutt properties is derived from the Monterey, Point Sal and SX Sand formations, which are characterized by long-lived reserves. In addition, the Diatomite and Careaga formations, located at depths less than 900 feet below the surface, provide access to unconventional oil reserves. The portion of the Underlying Properties located in the Orcutt oilfield consists of 4,130 gross (3,342 net) acres.
The following table sets forth the productive zones, recovery method and certain additional information related to the Orcutt properties in the Santa Maria Basin included in the Underlying Properties:
Orcutt Conventional
The Orcutt oilfield was discovered in 1901. Initial production from the Orcutt oilfield came from the Monterey and Point Sal formations, which are located at depths between 2,000 and 4,000 feet below the surface. The Monterey formation in the Orcutt oilfield is a fractured dolomitic shale that is highly productive. The Point Sal formation is a shallow marine deposited turbidite sandstone that is also highly productive. Oil recovery from these formations is enhanced by waterflood injection. Beginning in 2005, the SX formation underlying PCEC’s Orcutt properties was developed. The SX formation is a silty sandstone at a depth of 1,300 feet below the surface. A waterflood was initiated for the SX formation in 2009 to maintain reservoir pressure. The producing wells are all artificially lifted with either conventional rod pump, progressive cavity pumps or electric submersible pumps. There are currently 134 Monterey, Point Sal and SX formation producing wells, and 60 waterflood injection wells on PCEC’s conventional Orcutt properties. PCEC has operated its Orcutt properties for over ten years. PCEC operates 100% of these assets and has an average working interest of approximately 96%.
Orcutt Diatomite
The Diatomite is a massive silica-rich rock composed of the shells of single-cell organisms that were abundant during certain geologic periods. The Diatomite formation matrix has very high porosity (up to 70%) but very low permeability, meaning fluids will not easily flow through the rock. As a result of the low permeability, the commercially productive, oil rich areas are unable to flow oil to a well bore without the enhanced recovery techniques (EOR) of cyclic steam injection. In the 1990s, companies in California began to develop the heavy oil bearing Diatomite formation utilizing cyclic steam injection. The recovery process in the Diatomite consists of injecting steam into each well, letting the steam soak for one to two days, and then producing the well by flowing the hot oil and water to surface. The process is sometimes enhanced by pumping the oil and water for an additional one to four weeks, until the well is ready to be steamed again.
The Diatomite formation in the Orcutt oilfield lies approximately 500 to 1,100 feet below the surface. PCEC began cyclic steam development in 2005 and was producing from about 70 active Diatomite wells using the process described above as of December 31, 2015. Current production is about 1,000 Boe per day. PCEC began a project expansion (Module 2) in 2011 to increase the total Diatomite project to 96 wells. Since 2011, Module 2 has been successful in key parameters including project cost, execution timing, and well performance. Initial production from these wells averaged 25 Boe/d per well with an overall steam to oil ratio of 2.5 barrels of steam injected to produce one barrel of oil.
PCEC has targeted the Diatomite formation at depths greater than 400 feet below the surface for development, the area of which covers 750 acres within PCEC’s Orcutt properties. PCEC has developed approximately 50 acres to date, and produced over 2,270 MBoe from the Diatomite oilfield.
Careaga formation
Overlying the Diatomite formation in the Orcutt oilfield is the Careaga sandstone reservoir. The Careaga outcrops at the surface in some locations and extends to depths of 90 to 160 feet below the surface. This reservoir contains very heavy oil in the range of 9-10 degree API. PCEC collects the Careaga oil that flows to the surface in containers utilizing French drains. PCEC produces approximately 70 Bbls/d of the Careaga oil that is pumped from the cisterns and sold with the rest of its oil production.
Los Angeles Basin
The Underlying Properties in the Los Angeles Basin consist of the West Pico, Sawtelle and East Coyote properties. The portion of the Underlying Properties located in the Los Angeles Basin consists of 2,107 gross (1,028 net) acres.
The following table sets forth the recovery method and certain additional information about the oil fields in the Los Angeles Basin included in the Underlying Properties:
(1) Located in the East Beverly Hills field and includes the West Pico Unit and three Stocker JV wells (a joint venture between PCEC and FMI).
West Pico
The West Pico Unit was developed from an urban drilling and production site which came on production in 1966. In 2000, PCEC undertook a modernization of its facility and installed a permanently enclosed, electric, soundproof drilling and workover rig that allows for uninterrupted drilling and workover operations despite its close proximity to residential neighborhoods. Production from the West Pico Unit comes from sandstone reservoirs ranging in depths between 4,000 and 7,000 feet below the surface. Oil recovery is enhanced by waterflood injection. The producing wells in the West Pico Unit are all artificially lifted with hydraulic rod pumps and electric submersible pumps. There are currently 36 producing wells and 6 waterflood injection wells in the West Pico Unit. PCEC has the potential to drill up to 10 additional wells in the West Pico Unit.
West Pico also includes three wells held by the Stocker JV, a joint venture between PCEC and Freeport McMoRan Oil & Gas, Inc. (“FMI”). In accordance with the contractual arrangements with FMI, FMI operates these three wells that were drilled from its facility to three lease line locations between FMI’s and PCEC’s production units. These wells are equally owned by PCEC and FMI, and PCEC receives the production attributable to its properties.
Sawtelle
PCEC’s Sawtelle property is similarly situated in an urban environment. The Sawtelle oilfield was discovered in 1965 and is currently the deepest producing oilfield in the Los Angeles Basin with well depths up to 11,500 feet below the surface. Production at PCEC’s Sawtelle property comes from sandstone reservoirs in three separate pools ranging in depth between 7,500 and 11,500 feet below the surface. Oil recovery is enhanced by waterflood injection in two of the three pools. The producing wells are all artificially
lifted with hydraulic pumps, and electric submersible pumps. There are currently 11 producing wells and three waterflood injection wells in PCEC’s Sawtelle property. PCEC’s non-operated interest in the Sawtelle field is operated by BOLP.
East Coyote
The East Coyote oilfield was discovered in 1909. Production at PCEC’s East Coyote property comes from three sandstone formations ranging in depth from 2,000 to 6,000 feet below the surface. The producing wells are all artificially lifted with rod pumps and electric submersible pumps. There are currently 54 producing wells, and 20 waterflood injection wells in PCEC’s East Coyote property. PCEC’s non-operated interest in the East Coyote field is operated by BOLP.
Abandonment and Sale of Underlying Properties
PCEC or any transferee has the right to abandon its interest in any well or property if it reasonably believes a well or property ceases to produce or is not capable of producing in commercially paying quantities. Upon termination of the lease, the portion of the Conveyed Interests relating to the abandoned property will be extinguished.
PCEC generally may sell all or a portion of its interests in the Underlying Properties, subject to and burdened by the Conveyed Interests, without the consent of the Trust unitholders. In connection with any such sale, PCEC will have no further obligations, requirements or responsibilities with respect to any such transferred interests, provided that PCEC delivers to the Trustee an agreement of the transferee of such transferred interests, reasonably satisfactory to the Trustee, in which such transferee assumes the responsibility to perform the administrative services that PCEC is required to provide to the Trust pursuant to the operating and services agreement relating to the interests being transferred. In addition, PCEC may, without the consent of the Trust unitholders, require the Trust to release the Conveyed Interests associated with any lease that accounts for less than or equal to 0.25% of the total production from the Underlying Properties in the prior twelve months and provided that the Conveyed Interests covered by such releases cannot exceed, during any twelve-month period, an aggregate fair market value to the Trust of $500,000. These releases will be made only in connection with a sale by PCEC to a non-affiliate of the relevant Underlying Properties, are conditioned upon the Trust receiving an amount equal to the fair market value (net of sales costs) to the Trust of such Conveyed Interests and will be treated as an offset amount against costs and expenses. PCEC has not identified for sale any of the Underlying Properties.
Title to Properties
The properties composing the Underlying Properties are or may be subject to one or more of the burdens and obligations described below. To the extent that these burdens and obligations affect PCEC’s rights to production or the value of production from the Underlying Properties, they have been taken into account in calculating the Trust’s interests and in estimating the size and the value of the reserves attributable to the Underlying Properties.
PCEC’s interests in the oil and natural gas properties composing the Underlying Properties are typically subject, in one degree or another, to one or more of the following:
· royalties and other burdens, express and implied, under oil and natural gas leases and other arrangements;
· overriding royalties, production payments and similar interests and other burdens created by PCEC’s predecessors in title;
· a variety of contractual obligations arising under operating agreements, farm-out agreements, production sales contracts and other agreements that may affect the Underlying Properties or their title;
· liens that arise in the normal course of operations, such as those for unpaid taxes, statutory liens securing unpaid suppliers and contractors and contractual liens under operating agreements that are not yet delinquent or, if delinquent, are being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings;
· pooling, unitization and communitization agreements, declarations and orders;
· easements, restrictions, rights-of-way and other matters that commonly affect property;
· conventional rights of reassignment that obligate PCEC to reassign all or part of a property to a third party if PCEC intends to release or abandon such property;
· preferential rights to purchase or similar agreements and required third-party consents to assignments or similar agreements;
· obligations or duties affecting the Underlying Properties to any municipality or public authority with respect to any franchise, grant, license or permit, and all applicable laws, rules, regulations and orders of any governmental authority; and
· rights reserved to or vested in the appropriate governmental agency or authority to control or regulate the Underlying Properties and also the interests held therein, including PCEC’s interests and the Conveyed Interests.
PCEC has informed the Trustee that PCEC believes that the burdens and obligations affecting the properties composing the Underlying Properties are conventional in the industry for similar properties. PCEC has also informed the Trustee that PCEC believes that the existing burdens and obligations do not, in the aggregate, materially interfere with the use of the Underlying Properties and will not materially adversely affect the Conveyed Interests or their value.
In order to give third parties notice of the Conveyed Interests, PCEC has recorded the conveyance of the Conveyed Interests in California in the real property records in each county in which the Underlying Properties are located, or in such other public records as required under California law to place third parties on notice of the conveyance.
PCEC believes that its title to the Underlying Properties is, and the Trust’s title to the Conveyed Interests are, good and defensible in accordance with standards generally accepted in the oil and natural gas industry, subject to such exceptions as are not so material to detract substantially from the use or value of such properties or royalty interests. Under the terms of the Conveyance creating the Conveyed Interests, PCEC has provided a special warranty of title with respect to the Conveyed Interests, subject to the burdens and obligations described in this section. Please read “Risk Factors-The Trust Units may lose value as a result of title deficiencies with respect to the Underlying Properties” in Item 1A of this Annual Report.
Item 3.