Item 2. PROPERTIES
The following descriptions summarize selected information about our Upper Kobuk Mineral Projects, which are located in the Ambler mining district of Alaska and include the Arctic Project and the Bornite Project. All of the UKMP Projects are without known reserves, as defined under SEC Industry Guide 7, and all proposed programs for the properties are exploratory in nature. We do not consider the Titiribi Project in Colombia to be material to the Company.
Arctic Project, Ambler Mining District, Alaska
Arctic Project - Technical Report
Except with respect to the land size disclosure and the disclosure regarding the number of claims (which were both increased subsequent to the effective date of the PEA), and the information under the heading “Arctic Project - Current Activities”, or as otherwise stated, the scientific and technical information relating to the Arctic Project contained in this Form 10-K is derived from, and in some instances is an extract from, the technical report titled “Preliminary Economic Assessment Report on the Arctic Project, Ambler Mining District, Northwest Alaska” dated effective September 12, 2013 prepared by Tetra Tech and EBA, a Tetra Tech Company (and together with Tetra Tech, “Tetra Tech”). Erin Workman, P.Geo., an employee and Director, Technical Services, is a Qualified Person as defined in 43-101, and has approved the scientific and technical information contained herein. The information regarding the Arctic Project is based on assumptions, qualifications and procedures which are not fully described herein. Reference should be made to the full text of the PEA which has been filed with certain Canadian securities regulatory authorities pursuant to NI 43-101 and is available for review on SEDAR at www.sedar.com and on EDGAR at www.sec.gov.
Arctic Project - Property Description and Location
The Arctic Project is located in the Ambler mining district of the southern Brooks Range, in the Northwest Arctic Borough (“NWAB”) of Alaska. The Arctic Project is located 260 km east of the town of Kotzebue, 30 km north of the village of Kobuk, 260 km west of the Dalton Highway, an all-weather state maintained public road, at geographic coordinates N67.17° latitude and W156.38° longitude (Universal Transverse Mercator (UTM) North American Datum (NAD) 83, Zone 4 coordinates 7453080N, 613110E). The current size of the Ambler lands is approximately 75 km long x 6 km wide and comprises a total of 45,348 ha.
The Ambler lands comprise 45,348 ha of State of Alaska mining claims and US Federal patented mining claims in the Kotzebue Recording District. The Ambler land tenure consists of 1,358 contiguous claims, including 870 40-acre State claims, 481 160-acre State claims, 5 State claims ranging from 2-acre to 8-acre, and two Federal patented claims comprising 110 ha held in the name of NovaCopper US Inc. The Arctic Project is located near the southern edge of the centre of the claim block. The Federal patented claim corners were located by the US Geological Survey. There is no expiration date or labor requirement on the Federal patented claims. Rent for each State claim is paid annually to the Alaska Department of Natural Resources (“ADNR”). An Annual Labor Statement must be submitted annually to maintain the State claims in good standing.
In 1971, the US Congress passed the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act which settled land and financial claims made by the Alaska Natives and provided for the establishment of 13 regional corporations to administer those claims. These are known as the Alaska Native Regional Corporations. One of these 13 regional corporations is NANA. ANCSA Lands controlled by NANA bound the southern border of the Property claim block. National Park lands are within 25 km of the northern property border.
Figure 1: Regional Location Map
Figure 2: Upper Kobuk Mineral Projects Lands Prospect Location Map
There are no known environmental liabilities due to previous operators or from our ongoing exploration activities at the Arctic Project. There has been no mine development or production on the Ambler lands.
Multiple permits are required during the exploration phase of the Arctic Project. Permits are issued from Federal, State, and Regional agencies, including: the Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”), the US Army Corps of Engineers (“USACE”), the Alaska Department of Environmental Conservation (“ADEC”), the Alaska Department of Fish and Game (“ADF&G”), the ADNR, and the NWAB. The State of Alaska permit for exploration on the Arctic Project, the Annual Hardrock Exploration Activity (“AHEA”) Permit, is obtained and renewed every five years through the ADNR - Division of Mining, Land and Water. NovaCopper holds an AHEA exploration permit in good standing with the Alaska DNR. The Arctic Project is within the NWAB thus requiring a Title 9 Miscellaneous Land Use permit for mineral exploration, fuel storage, gravel extraction, and the operation of a landfill. NovaGold held these permits in good standing during the 2004 to 2008 seasons and renewed the permits for the 2010 exploration season to 2015. The Bornite Camp, Bornite Landfill, and Dahl Creek Camp are permitted by the ADEC.
A number of statutory reports and payments are required to maintain the claims in good standing on an annual basis. As the Arctic Project progresses, additional permits for environmental baseline and detailed engineering studies will be necessary at federal, state, and local levels.
Arctic Project - Accessibility, Climate, Local Resources, Infrastructure and Physiography
Accessibility is one of the most significant challenges of developing the Arctic Project. There is no developed surface access to the Ambler mining district.
Primary access to the Arctic Project is by air, using both fixed wing aircraft and helicopters. There are four well maintained, approximately 1,500 m-long gravel airstrips located near the Arctic Project, capable of accommodating charter fixed wing aircraft. These airstrips are located 66 km west at Ambler, 46 km southwest at Shungnak, 36 km southwest at Kobuk, and 32 km southwest at Dahl Creek. There is daily commercial air service from Kotzebue to the village of Kobuk, the closest community to the Arctic Project. During the summer months, the Dahl Creek Camp airstrip is suitable for larger aircraft, such as C-130 and DC-6. In addition to the four 1,500 m airstrips, there is a 700 m airstrip located at the Bornite Camp, approximately 25 km southwest of the Arctic Deposit, and a 400 m airstrip located approximately 10 km southwest of the Arctic Deposit. The airstrip at Bornite is suited to smaller aircraft, which support the camp with personnel and supplies. An upgraded one-lane gravel road suitable for vehicles or construction equipment links the Bornite Camp to the Dahl Creek airstrip and camp southwest of the Arctic Deposit.
The climate in the region is typical of a sub-arctic environment. Exploration is generally conducted from late May until late September. Weather conditions on the Ambler lands can vary significantly from year to year and can change suddenly. During the summer exploration season, average maximum temperatures range from 10°C to 20°C, while average lows range from -2°C to 7°C. By early October, unpredictable weather limits regular helicopter travel to the Arctic Project. During winter months, the Arctic Project can be accessed by snow machine, track vehicle, or fixed wing aircraft. Winter temperatures are routinely below -25°C and can exceed -50°C. Annual precipitation in the region averages at 395 mm with the most rainfall occurring from June through September, and the most snowfall occurring from November through January.
The Arctic Project is located along the south slope of the Brooks Range, which separates the Arctic region from the interior of Alaska. Nearby surface waters include Subarctic Creek, the Shungnak and Kogoluktuk Rivers, the Kobuk River, and numerous small lakes. The Arctic Project is located at the eastern end of Subarctic Creek, a tributary of the Shungnak River to the west, along a ridge between Subarctic Creek and the Kogoluktuk River Valley. The property area is marked by steep and rugged terrain with high topographic relief. Elevations range from 30 masl along the Kobuk River to 1,180 masl on a peak immediately north of the Arctic Project area. The divide between the Shungnak and Kogoluktuk Rivers in the Ambler Lowlands is approximately 220 masl. The Kobuk Valley is located at the transition between boreal forest and Arctic tundra. Spruce, birch, and poplar are found in portions of the valley, with a ground cover of lichens (reindeer moss). Willow and alder thickets and isolated cottonwoods follow drainages, and alpine tundra is found at higher elevations. Tussock tundra and low, heath-type vegetation covers most of the valley floor. Intermittent permafrost exists on the Arctic Project.
Wildlife in the area includes caribou, moose, Dall sheep, bears (grizzly and black), wolves, wolverines, coyotes, and foxes. Fish species include salmon, sheefish, arctic char, and arctic grayling. The Kobuk River, which briefly enters the UKMP lands on its southwest corner, is a significant salmon spawning river. Subarctic Creek, which does not contain anadromous fish, drains into the Shungnak River, which drains into the Kobuk River. The caribou on the property belong to the Western Arctic herd that migrates twice a year - south in August, from their summer range north of the Brooks Range, and north in March from their winter range along the Buckland River.
Currently, the Arctic Project does not have access to Alaska power and transportation infrastructure. Beginning in 2009, the Arctic Project has been the focus of the Ambler Mining District Access Corridor study.
The Arctic Deposit proposed access road branches off from the proposed AMDIAR and ends at the Arctic Deposit. Figure 3 shows the overall road location plan showing the relationship of the proposed access road to the proposed Brooks East corridor which eventually connects to the existing Dalton Highway 320 km from the access road intersection. The proposed access road is 17 km long from the AMDIAR corridor to the Arctic Project site.
Figure 3: Proposed Access to the Arctic Project Site
The proposed Arctic Project mine site infrastructure is spread over a distance of approximately 6 km within the upper reaches of the Sub-Arctic Creek Valley. The proposed development for the Arctic Project consists of the following major infrastructure: roads and an airstrip, mill buildings and related services facilities including maintenance and truck shops, assay lab, water supply and distribution, waste management, fuel storage, on site explosive storage, power supply, tailings storage facility (“TSF”) and water management, water treatment plant, construction and permanent camp accommodation, waste rock storage facilities, and communication infrastructure.
The proposed mine-site infrastructure has been located to take advantage of local topography, minimize pumping requirements from the mill building to the TSF, minimize environmental impacts to Sub-Arctic Creek, minimize snow avalanche mitigation requirements, and to reduce the haul distance from the pit to the primary crusher and TSF.
The proposed location for an airstrip sufficient to support project activities is located in the valley approximately 21 km from the Arctic Project site. Geotechnical data is not available for the site but it is assumed that the facility will require permafrost protection to ensure year round operations. The proposed airstrip will operate as a private aerodrome and prior permission will be required for all aircraft utilizing the site. The gravel airstrip will be approximately 1,524 meters long and capable of landing a Dash 8 - Q400/Hercules C130.
The Arctic Project will require power of 15 MW of peak load for 10,000 t/d operation demand. It is proposed that power will be generated by five self-contained 3.6 MW prime diesel generators. Four units will be in service with the fifth unit reserved for maintenance. Heat will be recovered from the generators and used to heat the mill, camp and related facilities.
Arctic Project - History
During the 1940’s and 1950’s Bear Creek Mining Corporation (“BCMC”), an exploration subsidiary of Kennecott, conducted regional reconnaissance exploration in the Cosmos Hills and the southern Brooks Range. Stream silt sampling in 1963 by BCMC revealed a significant copper anomaly in Arctic Creek roughly 17 km northeast of the previously identified Bornite deposit. The area was subsequently staked and, in 1967, eight core holes were drilled at the Arctic Deposit yielding impressive massive sulphide intercepts over an almost 500-m strike length. BCMC conducted intensive exploration on the property until 1977 and then intermittently through 1998. No drilling or additional exploration was conducted on the Arctic Project between 1998 and 2004.
Arctic Project - Historical Metallurgical Testwork
Metallurgical studies during the Kennecott era included: two initial mineralogical studies undertaken by the Kennecott Research Center (“KRC”) to evaluate and identify the potential beneficiation or metallurgical treatment of concentrates of the samples from the deposit and a subsequent 1999 Lakefield Research Ltd. (Lakefield) metallurgical test program to confirm and improve upon the results from the 1970s KRC test work program. In 2012, NovaCopper contracted SGS to conduct an extensive metallurgical program in support of the Artic PEA, the results of which are described and summarized below under the heading “Arctic Project - Metallurgical Testing”.
Arctic Project - Historical Geophysics
Prior to 1998, Kennecott conducted a series of geophysical surveys which are poorly documented or are unavailable to NovaCopper. In March 1998, Kennecott initiated an extensive helicopter-supported airborne electromagnetic (“EM”) and magnetic survey covering the entire VMS belt, including the Arctic Deposit. Kennecott identified eight EM anomalies which were deemed to have significant potential for mineralization and followed-up with additional gravity lines and/or Controlled Source Audio-frequency Magneto-Telluric (“CSAMT”) lines during 1998. Kennecott conducted no further geophysical field exploration in the district after 1998.
Arctic Project - Historical Drilling
Between 1967 and July 1985, Kennecott (BCMC) completed 86 holes (including 14 large diameter metallurgical test holes) totalling 16,080 m. In 1998, Kennecott drilled an additional 6 core holes totalling 1,492 m to test for: 1) extensions of the known Arctic resource; 2) grade and thickness continuity at Arctic; and 3) a nearby airborne geophysical anomaly. Drilling for all BCMC/Kennecott campaigns in the Arctic Deposit area (1966 to 1998) totals 92 core holes for a combined 17,572 m.
No drilling was performed on the project between 1999 and 2003. NovaGold took control of the project in 2004.
Arctic Project - Historical Geochemistry
Historic geochemistry for the district, compiled in the 1998 Kennecott database, includes 2,255 soil samples, 922 stream silt samples, 363 rock samples, and 37 panned concentrate samples. Data has been sourced from several companies including Kennecott, Sunshine Mining, Resource Associates of Alaska, and NANA. Sourcing of much of the data had been poorly documented in the database. During 1998, Kennecott renewed its effort in the district, and, as a follow-up to the 1998 EM survey, undertook directed soil and rock chip sampling in and around EM anomalies generated in the geophysical targeting effort. During this period Kennecott collected 962 soils and 107 rocks and for the first time used extensive multi-element inductively coupled plasma (“ICP”) analysis.
Arctic Project - Geologic Setting
Regional Geology
The Ambler mining district occurs along the southern margin of Brooks Range within an east-west trending zone of Devonian to Jurassic age submarine volcanic and sedimentary rocks. The district covers both: 1) VMS-like deposits and prospects hosted in the Devonian age Ambler Sequence (or Ambler Schist belt), a group of metamorphosed bimodal volcanic rocks with interbedded tuffaceous, graphitic and calcareous volcaniclastic metasediments; and 2) epigenetic carbonate-hosted copper deposits occurring in Devonian age carbonate and phyllitic rocks of the Bornite Carbonate Sequence. The Ambler Sequence occurs in the upper part of the Anirak Schist, the thickest member of the Schist belt or Coldfoot subterrane. VMS-like stratabound mineralization can be found along the entire 110 km strike length of the district. Immediately south of the Schist belt in the Cosmos Hills, a time equivalent section of the Anirak Schist includes the approximately 1 km thick Bornite Carbonate Sequence. Mineralization of both the VMS-like deposits of the Schist belt and the carbonate-hosted deposits of the Cosmos Hills has been dated at 375 to 387 Ma.
In addition, the Ambler mining district is characterized by increasing metamorphic grade north perpendicular to the strike of the east-west trending units. The district shows isoclinal folding in the northern portion and thrust faulting to south (Schmidt 1983). The Devonian to Mississippian age Angayucham basalt and the Triassic to Jurassic age mafic volcanic rocks are in low-angle over thrust contact with various units of the Ambler Schist belt and Bornite Carbonate Sequence along the northern edge of the Ambler Lowlands.
Local/Property Geology
Rocks that form the Ambler Sequence consist of a lithologically diverse sequence of lower Paleozoic Devonian age carbonate and siliciclastic strata with interlayered mafic lava flows and sills and felsic tuffs. The clastic strata, derived from terrigenous continental and volcanic sources, were deposited primarily by mass-gravity flow into the sub-wavebase environment of an extending marginal basin.
Though the Ambler Sequence is exposed over 110 km of strike length, descriptions and comments herein will refer to an area between the Kogoluktuk River on the east and the Shungnak River on the west where we have focused the majority of our exploration efforts over the last decade.
The local base of the Ambler Sequence consists of variably metamorphosed carbonates historically referred to as the Gnurgle Gneiss. We interpret these strata as calc-turbidites, perhaps deposited in a sub-wavebase environment adjacent to a carbonate bank. Calcareous schists overlie the Gnurgle Gneiss and host sporadically distributed mafic sills and pillowed lavas. These fine-grained clastic strata indicate a progressively quieter depositional environment up section, and the presence of pillowed lavas indicates a rifting, basinal environment.
Overlying these basal carbonates and pillowed basalts is a section of predominantly fine-grained carbonaceous siliciclastic rocks which host a significant portion of the mineralization in the district including the Arctic Deposit. This quiescent section indicates further isolation from a terrigenous source terrain.
The section above the Arctic Deposit host stratigraphy contains voluminous reworked silicic volcanic strata with the Button Schist at its base. The Button Schist is a regionally continuous and distinctive albite porphyroblastic unit that serves as an excellent marker above the main mineralized stratigraphy. The paucity of volcanically derived strata below the Arctic Deposit host section and abundance above indicates that the basin and surrounding hinterlands underwent major tectonic reorganization during deposition of the Arctic Deposit section. Greywacke sands that we interpret as channeled high-energy turbidites occur throughout the section but concentrate high in the local stratigraphy.
Several rock units show substantial change in thickness and distribution in the vicinity of the Arctic Deposit that may have resulted from the basin architecture existing at the time of deposition. Between the Arctic Ridge, geographically above the Arctic Deposit, and the Riley Ridge to the west, several significant differences have been documented including: 1) the Gnurgle Gneiss, which is thickest in exposures along the northern extension of Arctic Ridge and appears to thin to the west; 2) mafic lavas and sills which thicken from east to west; they show thick occurrences in upper Subarctic Creek and to the west, but are sparsely distributed to the east; 3) the quartzite section, which within and above the Arctic sulphide horizon does not occur in abundance east of Arctic Ridge; it is thicker and occurs voluminously to the west; 4) the Button Schist which thickens dramatically to the west from exposures on Arctic Ridge; exposures to the east are virtually nonexistent; and 5) Greywacke sands which do not exist east of Subarctic Creek but occur in abundance as massive, channeled accumulations to the west, centered on Riley Ridge.
These data are interpreted by us to define a generally north-northwest-trending depocentre through the central Ambler mining district. Diamictite occurrences described below in concert with these formational changes suggest that the depocentre had a fault-controlled eastern margin with the basin deepening to the west. This original basin architecture appears to have controlled mineralization of the sulphide systems at Ambler and Shungnak (Dead Creek), concentrating fluid flow along structures on the eastern basin margin.
In addition to the underlying pre-deformational structural framework of the district suggested by the stratigraphic thickening of various facies around the Arctic Deposit, the Ambler Sequence is deformed by two penetrative deformational events that significantly complicate the distribution and spatial arrangement of the local stratigraphy; as described below.
Deformation: the earliest penetrative deformation event is associated with greenschist metamorphism and the development of regional schistosity. True isoclinal folds are developed and fold noses typically are thickened. The most notable fold is the Arctic antiform that defines the upper and lower limbs of the Arctic Deposit. The fold closes along a north-northeast- trending fold axis roughly mimicking the trace of Subarctic Creek and opening to the east. Importantly, the overturned lower limb implies that the permissive stratigraphy should be repeated on a lower synformal isocline beneath the currently explored limbs and would connect with the permissive mineralized stratigraphy to the northwest at Shungnak (Dead Creek).
Deformation: the earlier schistosity is in turn deformed by the deformational event that resulted in the local development of an axial planar cleavage. The deformational event is well defined throughout the Schist belt and results in a series of south verging open to moderately overturned folds that define a series of east-west trending folds of similar vergence across the entire Schist belt stratigraphies. This event is likely temporarily related to the emplacement of the Devonian Angayucham volcanics, the obducted Jurassic ophiolites and Cretaceous sediments over the Schist belt stratigraphies. In addition to the earlier penetrative deformation events, a series of poorly defined non-penetrative deformation events, likely as a consequence of Cretaceous extension, are seen as a series of warps or arches across the district. The interplay between the complex local stratigraphy, the isoclinal event, the overturned south verging event and the series of post-penetrative deformational events makes district geological interpretation often extremely difficult at a local scale.
Recent work by us defines the Arctic Deposit as two or more discrete horizons of sulphide mineralization contained in a complexly deformed isoclinal fold with an upright upper limb and an overturned lower limb hosting the main mineral resources. Nearby drilling suggests a third limb, an upright lower limb, likely occurs beneath the currently explored stratigraphy.
Mineralization occurs as stratiform semi-massive sulphide (“SMS”) to massive sulphide (“MS”) beds within primarily graphitic chlorite schists and fine-grained quartz sandstones. The sulphide beds average four meters in thickness but vary from less than one meter up to as much as eighteen meters in thickness. The bulk of the mineralization is within six modelled zones lying along the upper and lower limbs of the Arctic isoclinal anticline. All of the zones are within an area of roughly 1 km2 with mineralization extending to a depth of approximately 250 m below the surface. Mineralization characteristically varies from MS to SMS. Unlike more typical VMS deposits, mineralization is not characterized by steep metal zonation or massive pyritic zones. Mineralization is dominantly sheet-like zones of base metal sulphides with variable pyrite and only minor zonation usually on an extremely small scale. No stockworks or stringer zones in association with the mineralization have been observed. More importantly, the mineralization in general exhibits characteristics and textures common to replacement-style mineralization. Mineralization is predominately coarse-grained sulphides consisting mainly of chalcopyrite, sphalerite, galena, tetrahedrite, arsenopyrite, pyrite and pyrrhotite. Trace amounts of electrum and enargite are also present. Gangue minerals associated with the mineralized horizons include quartz, barite, white mica, black chlorite, talc, calcite, dolomite and cymrite.
Talc and magnesium chlorite are the dominant alteration products associated with the sulphide-bearing horizons. Talc alteration grades downward and outward to mixed talc-magnesium chlorite with minor phlogopite, into zones of dominantly magnesium chlorite, then into mixed magnesium chlorite-phengite with outer phengite-albite zones of alteration. Thickness of alteration zones vary with stratigraphic interpretation, but tens of meters for the outer zones is likely, as seen in phengite-albite exposures on the east side of Arctic Ridge. Stratigraphically above the sulphide-bearing horizons significant muscovite as paragonite is developed and results in a marked shift in sodium/magnesium ratios across the sulphide bearing horizons. Of particular note are the barium (“Ba”) species including barite, cymrite (a high-pressure Ba phyllosilicate), and Ba-bearing muscovite, phlogopite and biotite. These species associated with both alteration and mineralization has also been strongly remobilized during metamorphism.
Historic interpretation of the genesis of the Ambler Schist belt deposits have called for a syngenetic VMS origin with steep thermal gradients in and around seafloor hydrothermal vents resulting in metal deposition due to the rapid cooling of chloride bound base metals. A variety of VMS types have been well documented in the literature (Franklin et al. 2005) with the Ambler Schist belt deposits most similar to deposits associated with a bimodal mafic dominant volcanism related to incipient rifting. The majority of field observations broadly support such a scenario at the Arctic Deposit and include: 1) the tectonic setting with Devonian volcanism in an evolving continental rift; 2) the geologic setting with bimodal volcanics including pillow basalts and limited felsic volcanic tuffs; 3) an alteration assemblage with well-defined magnesium-rich footwall alteration and sodium-rich hanging wall alteration; and 4) typical polymetallic base-metal mineralization with massive and semi-massive sulphides. Although the majority of field observations support a VMS genesis to the deposits of the Schist belt, a series of other observations and characteristics suggest a more direct genetic link with that of the carbonate-hosted Bornite Deposit in the Devonian Bornite Carbonate Sequence. Both deposit types have been dated at 375 to 387 Ma suggesting a clear temporal link.
The principal lithologic units captured in logging and mapping by us, in broad chronological order from oldest to youngest are as follows: greenstone, chlorite schist, talc schist, grey to black schists, metarhyolites, most notably the so-called button schist which serves as an important stratigraphic marker, quartz muscovite schists, diamictites and greywackes.
Arctic Project - Exploration
NovaGold began exploration of the Arctic Deposit and surrounding lands of the Schist belt in 2004 after optioning the property from Kennecott. Previous exploration on the Arctic Project during Kennecott’s tenure is summarized in “Arctic Project - History”. Field exploration was largely conducted during the period 2004 to 2007 with associated engineering and characterization studies between 2008 and 2012. Table 2 summarizes the exploration work conducted by NovaGold and us during our tenure from 2004 to 2012.
Table 2: Summary of NovaCopper/NovaGold Exploration Activities Targeting VMS-style Mineralization in the Ambler Sequence Stratigraphy and the Arctic Deposit (2004 - 2012)
Note: SWIR = short wave infrared; ML = metal leaching; BGC = BGC Engineering Inc.; SRK = SRK Consulting
The results of the above exploration programs have been incorporated into the PEA results, summarized under the heading “Arctic Project - Exploration and Development”. For further details, refer to the PEA. Exploration work conducted during the 2015 summer field program is summarized under the heading “Arctic Project - Current Activities”.
Arctic Project - Mineralization
In 2013, we updated the mineralization models, representing massive and semi-massive VMS-style mineralization. Geometrically, the mineralization is confined to six lenticular mineralized zones concentrated along an isoclinal fold hinge. Five of the six SMS zones contain a core of MS material. For more details regarding length, width, depth and continuity together with a description of the type, character and distribution of the mineralization see “Local/Property Geology” above.
Arctic Project - Drilling
Drilling at the Arctic Deposit has been ongoing since its initial discovery in 1965. Approximately 31,907 m of drilling in 135 drill holes have been completed at the deposit or on potential extensions in 23 campaigns spanning 45 years. All of the drill campaigns between 1965 and 2012 have been run under the auspices of either: 1) Kennecott and its subsidiaries, or 2) NovaGold, our predecessor company.
We and our predecessor company NovaGold, have drilled 17,983 m in 59 different drill holes targeting the Arctic Deposit and several other prospects of the Ambler Schist belt. Table 3 summarizes all of the NovaCopper/NovaGold tenure drilling on the Property. Drilling conducted during the 2015 summer field program is summarized under the heading “Arctic Project - Current Activities”.
Table 3: Summary of NovaCopper/NovaGold Drilling (2004 - 2012)
Notes: *A total of 12 of the 14 holes drilled in 2008 were utilized in the 2012 SRK resource update. Two holes were maintained in sealed frozen storage to provide additional metallurgical samples if required.
**Geotechnical holes drilled in 2011 are not included in the current resource estimation contained herein.
***Drilling in 2006 and 2012 targeted exploration targets elsewhere in the VMS belt.
Over the Arctic Project’s history, a relatively limited number of drill companies have been used by Kennecott and NovaCopper/NovaGold at the Arctic Deposit. During Kennecott’s tenure on the Property, Sprague and Henwood, a Pennsylvania-based drilling company was the principal contractor. Sprague and Henwood utilized company manufactured drill rigs during their tenure on the Property. Many of their rigs remain at the Bornite Deposit and constitute a historical inventory of 1950s and 1960s exploration artifacts. Tonto Drilling provided services to Kennecott during Kennecott’s short return to the district in the late 1990s. We and NovaGold have utilized Boart Longyear as our only contractor. The 2004 to 2012 NovaCopper/NovaGold drill programs used a single skid-mounted LF-70 core rig, drilling HQ or NQ core. Wireframes were updated in 2013 to incorporate interpretation of all drill results to date and have been included in the resource estimate.
Arctic Project - Sampling Methodology and Analysis
The data for the Arctic Deposit resource was generated over three primary drilling campaigns: 1966 to 1986 when BCMC, a subsidiary of Kennecott Copper Corporation was the primary operator, 1998 when Kennecott Minerals resumed work after a long hiatus, and 2004 to 2012 with NovaGold and now us as the operators.
Sampling of drill core prior to 1998 by BCMC focused primarily on the mineralized zones; numerous intervals of weak to moderate mineralization were not sampled during this period. During the 1998 campaign, Kennecott did sample some broad zones of alteration and weak mineralization, but much of the unaltered and unmineralized drill core was left unsampled. Little documentation on historic sampling procedures is available.
Between 2004 and 2006, NovaGold conducted a systematic drill core re-logging and re-sampling campaign of Kennecott and BCMC era drill holes AR-09 to AR-74. NovaGold either took 1 to 2 m samples every 10 m, or sampled entire lengths of previously unsampled core within a minimum of 1 m and a maximum of 3 m intervals. The objective of the sampling was to generate a full ICP geochemistry dataset for the Arctic Deposit and ensure continuous sampling throughout the deposit. Sample preparation procedures for NovaGold era work are described below.
All drill core was transported by helicopter in secure core “baskets” to either the Dahl Creek camp or the Bornite camp for logging and sampling. Sample intervals were determined by the geologist during the geological logging process. Sample intervals were labelled with white paper tags and butter (aluminum) tags which were stapled to the core box. Each tag had a unique number which corresponded to that sample interval. Sample intervals were determined by the geological relationships observed in the core and limited to a three meter maximum length and one meter minimum length. An attempt was made to terminate sample intervals at lithological and mineralization boundaries. Sampling was generally continuous from the top to the bottom of the drill hole. When the hole was in unmineralized rock, the sample length was generally three meters, whereas in mineralized units, the sample length was shortened to one to two meters. Geological and geotechnical parameters were recorded based on defined sample intervals and/or drill run intervals (defined by the placement of a wooden block at the end of a core run). Logged parameters were reviewed annually and slight modifications have been made between campaigns, but generally include rock type, mineral abundance, major structures, specific gravity (“SG”), point load testing, recovery and rock quality designation measurements. Drill logs were converted to a digital format and forwarded to the Database Manager, who imported them into the master database. Core was photographed and then brought into the saw shack where it was split in half by the rock saw, divided into sample intervals, and bagged by the core cutters. Not all drill core was oriented; however, core that had been oriented was identified to samplers by a line drawn down the core stick. If core was not competent, it was split by using a spoon to transfer half of the core into the sample bag. Once the core was sawed, half was sent to ALS Chemex Laboratories (“ALS Chemex”) in Vancouver for analysis and the other half was stored at the Dahl Creek camp, but since has been consolidated at the storage facility at the Bornite camp facilities or at our warehouse in Fairbanks. Shipment of core samples from the Dahl Creek camp occurred on a drill hole by drill hole basis. Rice bags, containing two to four poly-bagged core samples each, were marked and labelled with the ALS Chemex address, project and hole number, bag number, and sample numbers enclosed. Rice bags were secured with a pre-numbered plastic security tie and a twist wire tie and then assembled into sling loads for transport by chartered flights on a commercial airline to Fairbanks, where they were met by a contracted expeditor for delivery directly to the ALS Minerals preparation facility in Fairbanks. In addition to the core, control samples were inserted into the shipments at the approximate rate of one standard, one blank and one duplicate per 20 core samples:
• Standards: four standards were used at the Arctic Deposit. The core cutter inserted a sachet of the appropriate standard, as well as the sample tag, into the sample bag.
• Blanks: were composed of an unmineralized landscape aggregate. The core cutter inserted about 150 g of blank, as well as the sample tag, into the sample bag.
• Duplicates: the assay laboratory split the sample and ran both splits. The core cutter inserted a sample tag into an empty sample bag.
Samples were logged into a tracking system on arrival at ALS Chemex, and weighed. Samples were then crushed, dried, and a 250 g split pulverized to greater than 85% passing 75 μm.
Gold assays were determined using fire analysis followed by an atomic absorption spectroscopy finish. The lower detection limit was 0.005 ppm gold; the upper limit was 1,000 ppm gold. An additional 34-element suite was assayed by inductively coupled plasma-atomic emission spectroscopy (“ICP-AES”) methodology, following nitric acid aqua regia digestion. The copper analyses were completed by atomic absorption (“AA”), following a triple acid digest.
The accreditations of Primary and Secondary assay laboratories used during the 1966 - 1986 campaigns are not known. ALS Analytical Lab (Fairbanks, Alaska) was the Primary assay lab between 1998 - present. ALS Chemex has attained International Organization for Standardization (“ISO”) 9001:2000 registration. In addition, the ALS Chemex laboratory in Vancouver is accredited to ISO 17025 by Standards Council of Canada for a number of specific test procedures including fire assay of gold by AA, ICP and gravimetric finish, multi-element ICP and AA assays for silver, copper, lead and zinc.
During 2013, we conducted a 26% audit of the NovaGold era assay database fields: sample interval, Au, Ag, Cu, Zn, and Pb. This audit is documented in a series of memos. Our staff did not identify and/or correct any transcription and/or coding errors in the database prior to resource estimation. We also retained independent consultant Caroline Vallat, P.Geo. of GeoSpark Consulting Inc. to: 1) re-load 100% of the historical assay certificates, 2) conduct a QA/QC review of paired historical assays and NovaGold era re-assays; 3) monitor an independent check assay program for the 2004 to 2008 and 2011 drill campaigns; and 4) generate QA/QC reports for the 2004 to 2008 and 2011 drill campaigns.
Arctic - Security of Samples
Security measures taken during historical Kennecott and BCMC programs are unknown to NovaGold or us. We are not aware of any reason to suspect that any of these samples have been tampered with. The 2004 to 2011 samples were either in the custody of NovaGold personnel, contractors or the assay laboratories at all times as discussed above, and the chain of custody of the samples is well documented.
Arctic Project - Mineral Resource Estimate
The mineral resource estimate was prepared by Tetra Tech with an effective date of the resource estimate as of July 30, 2013.
The mineral resource model prepared by Tetra Tech considers diamond drill holes drilled by different operators during the period 1965 to 2011. The majority of the assaying has been completed in recent years by us and our previous parent company NovaGold. The mineral resource for the Arctic Project is supported by 43 core holes (approximately 13,500 m) drilled by NovaGold and 92 core holes (approximately 17,600 m) drilled by previous owners Kennecott, and/or a Kennecott subsidiary. The geological and assay database used to estimate the Arctic Project mineral resources have been reviewed and audited by Tetra Tech.
Leapfrog™ software (version 2.5.1) was used to review and verify the resource estimation domains, prior to being imported into Isatis™ software (version 2012.1) to prepare assay data for geostatistical analysis, variography, block model construction, metal grade estimation and mineral resource tabulation. Mineral Resources were estimated into five MS and six SMS lenses, and then combined for an overall grade for the mineralized portion of the 10 m by 10 m by 5 m block. Extreme lead and gold assays were capped prior to compositing. Ordinary kriging and inverse distance squared estimates were run, with ordinary kriging used for resource reporting and inverse distance squared used for validation. Search parameters were constrained within each mineralized domain and required an optimum number of 15 composites, minimum number of 5 composites, minimum number of 2 drill holes, and maximum search distance range of 200 m. In general, blocks categorized as Indicated were supported by at least two drill holes within a 75 m search radii, and blocks categorized as Inferred were supported by at least 2 drill holes within a 150 m search radii. Estimated resources for the Arctic Deposit are reported in the following Table 4 and Table 5.
The Arctic Project has no known reserves.
The PEA is preliminary in nature and includes inferred mineral resources that are considered too speculative geologically to have the economic considerations applied to them that would enable them to be categorized as mineral reserves. There is no certainty that the estimates contained in the PEA will ever be realized. Mineral resources that are not mineral reserves do not have demonstrated economic viability.
Table 4 Indicated Resource Estimate for the Arctic Project (NSR Cut-off of $35/t)
Cautionary Note to United States Investors concerning estimates of Indicated Resources. This section uses the term “indicated resources”. We advise United States investors that these terms are not recognized by the SEC. United States investors are cautioned not to assume that estimates of indicated mineral resources are economically minable, or will be upgraded into measured mineral resources. See “Risk Factors” and “Cautionary Note to United States Investors.”
Notes: 1. These resource estimates have been prepared in accordance with NI 43-101 and the Canadian Institute of Mining, Metallurgy and Petroleum (“CIM”) Definition Standards. Mineral resources that are not mineral reserves do not have demonstrated economic viability. See “Risk Factors” and “Cautionary Note to United States Investors.”
2. Mineral Resources are reported within mineralization wireframes, contained within an Indicated pit design using an assumed copper price of $2.90/lb, zinc price of $0.85/lb, lead price of $0.90/lb, silver price of $22.70/oz, and gold price of $1,300/oz.
3. Appropriate mining costs, processing costs, metal recoveries and inter ramp pit slope angles were used to generate the pit design.
4. The $35.01/t milled cut-off is calculated based on a process operating cost of $19.03/t, G&A of $7.22/t and site services of $8.76/t. NSR equals payable metal values, based on the metal prices outlined in Note 2 above, less applicable treatment, smelting, refining costs, penalties, concentrate transportation costs, insurance and losses and royalties.
5. The LOM strip ratio was estimated at 8.39.
6. Rounding as required by reporting guidelines may result in apparent summation differences between tonnes, grade and contained metal content.
7. Tonnage and grade measurements are in metric units. Contained copper, zinc and lead pounds are reported as imperial pounds, contained silver and gold ounces as troy ounces.
Table 5 Inferred Resource Estimate for the Arctic Project (NSR Cut-off of $35/t)
Cautionary Note to United States Investors concerning estimates of Inferred Resources. This section uses the term “inferred resources”. We advise United States investors that these terms are not recognized by the SEC. The estimation of inferred resources involves far greater uncertainty as to their existence and economic viability than the estimation of other categories of resources. United States investors are cautioned not to assume that estimates of inferred mineral resources exist, are economically minable, or will be upgraded into measured or indicated mineral resources. See “Risk Factors” and “Cautionary Note to United States Investors.”
Notes: 1. These resource estimates have been prepared in accordance with NI 43-101 and the CIM Definition Standards. See “Risk Factors” and “Cautionary Note to United States Investors.”
2. Mineral Resources are reported within mineralization wireframes, contained within an Inferred pit design using an assumed copper price of $2.90/lb, zinc price of $0.85/lb, lead price of $0.90/lb, silver price of $22.70/oz, and gold price of $1,300/oz.
3. Appropriate mining costs, processing costs, metal recoveries and inter ramp pit slope angles were used to generate the pit design.
4. The $35.01/t milled cut-off is calculated based on a process operating cost of $19.03/t, G&A of $7.22/t and site services of $8.76/t. NSR equals payable metal values, based on the metal prices outlined in Note 2 above, less applicable treatment, smelting, refining costs, penalties, concentrate transportation costs, insurance and losses and royalties.
5. The LOM strip ratio was estimated at 8.39.
6. Rounding as required by reporting guidelines may result in apparent summation differences between tonnes, grade and contained metal content.
7. Tonnage and grade measurements are in metric units. Contained copper, zinc and lead pounds are reported as imperial pounds, contained silver and gold ounces as troy ounces.
Arctic Project - Mining Operations
The Arctic Project is not currently in production; for contemplated exploration or development activities see below.
Arctic Project - Exploration and Development
As noted in the summary Arctic Project - Technical Report above, we engaged Tetra Tech to prepare a PEA for the Arctic Project. The following summary describes the main results and assumptions of the PEA not previously discussed above. See “Arctic Project - Current Activities” below for a description of the Company’s current and contemplated exploration.
The PEA is based on a conventional truck-and-shovel, open-pit mine design at a single pit. The mining schedule was developed based on a maximum mill capacity of 10,000 t/d. The Arctic Project’s total mine life is 13 years, including 1 year of pre-stripping followed by 12 years of production. The pit uses four pushbacks and a minimum mining width of 40 m. Over the 13-year life, the pit is producing 35.7 Mt of mineralized material and 299.4 Mt of waste rock. The life-of-mine (“LOM”) stripping ratio is 8.39 and the stripping ratio excluding the pre-stripping waste rock is 7.94. The mining schedule does not currently consider a low-grade stockpiling option but this can be assessed in more detail in future studies.
Mineral Processing and Metallurgical Testing
Since 1970, metallurgical test work has been conducted to determine the flotation response of various samples extracted from the Arctic Deposit. In general, the samples tested produced similar metallurgical performances. In 2012, SGS Mineral Services (“SGS”) conducted a metallurgical test program to further study metallurgical responses of the samples produced from Zones 1, 2, 3, and 5 of the Arctic Deposit. The flotation test procedures used talc pre-flotation, conventional copper-lead bulk flotation and zinc flotation, followed by copper and lead separation. In general, the 2012 test results indicated that the samples responded well to the flowsheet tested. Below is a summary of average results of the locked cycle tests (without copper and lead separation).
• The copper recoveries to the bulk copper-lead concentrates ranged from 89 to 93% excluding the Zone 1 & 2 composite which produced a copper recovery of approximately 84%; the copper grades of the bulk concentrates were 24 to 28%.
• Approximately 92 to 94% of the lead was recovered to the bulk copper-lead concentrates containing 9 to 13% lead.
• The zinc recovery was 84.2% from Composite Zone 1 & 2, 93.0% from Composite Zone 3 and 90.5% from Composite Zone 5. On average, the zinc grades of the concentrates produced were higher than 55%, excluding the concentrate generated from Composite Zone 1 & 2, which contained only 44.5% zinc.
• Gold and silver were predominantly recovered into the bulk copper-lead concentrates. Gold recoveries to this concentrate ranged from 65 to 80%, and silver recoveries ranged from 80 to 86%.
Using an open circuit procedure, the copper and lead separation tests on the bulk copper-lead concentrate produced from the locked cycle tests generated reasonable copper and lead separation. The copper concentrates produced contained approximately 28 to 31% copper, while the grades of the lead concentrates were in the range of 41% to 67% lead. Also, it appears that most of the gold reported to the copper concentrate and on average the silver was equally recovered into the copper and lead concentrates.
The 2012 grindability test results showed that the Bond ball millwork index tests ranged from 6.5 to 11 kWh/t and abrasion index tests fluctuated from 0.017 to 0.072 g for the mineralized samples. The data indicates that the samples are neither resistant nor abrasive to ball mill grinding. The materials are considered to be soft or very soft in terms of grinding requirements.
Recovery Methods
A 10,000 t/d process plant has been designed to process the massive and semi-massive sulphide mineralization of the Arctic Property. The main economic elements found in the deposit are copper, zinc, lead, and associated gold and silver. The process plant will operate two twelve hour shifts per day, 365 days per year with an overall plant availability of 92%. The process plant will produce three concentrates: 1) copper concentrate, 2) zinc concentrate, and 3) lead concentrate. Gold and silver are expected to be payable at a smelter and are recovered in both the copper and lead concentrates. The process plant feed will be supplied from the Arctic open pit mine.
The mill feed will be hauled from the open pit to a primary crushing facility where the material will be crushed by a jaw crusher to a particle size of 80% passing 125 mm.
The crushed material will be ground by two stages of grinding, consisting of one SAG mill and one ball mill in closed circuit with hydrocyclones (SAB circuit). The hydrocyclone overflow with a grind size of approximately 80% passing 70 µm will first undergo pre-talc flotation, and then be processed by conventional bulk flotation (to recover copper, lead, and associated gold and silver), followed by zinc flotation. The rougher bulk concentrate will be cleaned and followed by copper and lead separation to produce a lead concentrate and a copper concentrate. The final tailings from the zinc flotation circuit will be pumped to the TSF. Copper, lead, and zinc concentrates will be thickened and pressure-filtered before being transported by truck to a port and shipped to smelters.
The LOM average mill feed is expected to contain 2.28% copper, 0.53% lead, 3.13% zinc, 0.5 g/t gold, and 37 g/t silver. According to the mine plan developed for the PEA study and metallurgical test results, the LOM average metal recoveries and concentrate grades are projected below:
• copper concentrate recovery: 87.1% copper; 57.9% gold; 40.2% silver; copper grade: 29%
• lead concentrate recovery: 74.0% lead; 6.8% gold; 40.2% silver; lead grade: 50%
• zinc concentrate recovery: 86.8% zinc; zinc grade: 56%.
Tailings and Storage Facility
The co-disposal TSF will be a fully lined facility consisting of rockfill embankment constructed across the SubArctic Creek drainage, creating an impoundment that will extend up the drainage. The rockfill embankment will be constructed to an ultimate crest elevation of 655 masl with the embankment being raised in stages to minimize the initial capital construction cost. During operations, potential acid generating (“PAG”) waste rock will be placed at the bottom and sides of the basin forming layers with consecutive disposal on tailings that will be filling the voids. The tailings has the potential to generate acid and, therefore, the tailings and the PAG waste rock will be placed under water and remain permanently submerged in order to reduce the potential for acid generation. Additional studies will be required to determine the most suitable method of co-disposal and potential requirements for acid rock drainage (“ARD”) management and mitigation programs will need to be part of the design of the TSF.
The TSF will be required to contain 110.5 Mm3 total over the 12-year LOM, with 23.8 Mm3 to accommodate the tailings at an assumed stored dry density of 1.5 t/m3 and 86.7 Mm3 of PAG waste rock at an assumed stored dry density of 1.9 t/m3. The TSF will be sited as a staged rockfill embankment with an upstream geomembrane liner. The starter embankment will have a crest elevation of 560 m and impound 1 year of mining production, which is approximately 670,000 m3 of tailings and 12.3 Mm3 of waste rock.
Arctic Project - Environmental Considerations
Environmental baseline data collection was initiated in 2007, including surface water quality sampling, wetlands mapping, stream flow monitoring, aquatic life surveys, subsistence, meteorological monitoring, and acid base accounting sampling. Additional baseline environmental data in the Ambler Lowlands, the Subarctic Creek drainage, the Shungnak River drainage and downstream receiving environments will be required to support future mine design, development of an environmental impact statement, permitting, construction and operations.
The Arctic Project has the potential to significantly improve work opportunities for local and regional residents. In October 2011, we signed an agreement with NANA which in addition to consolidating landholdings in the Ambler district has language establishing native hiring preferences and preferential use of NANA subsidiaries for contract work. Furthermore, the agreement formalized an Oversight Committee, with equal representation from NANA and us, to regularly review project plans and activities. In addition, a Subsistence Subcommittee has been formed to protect subsistence and the Iñupiaq way of life and a Workforce Development Subcommittee is also in place to address current and future employment needs. We meet monthly, during summer months, with the residents of Kobuk, Shungnak and Ambler, the three villages closest to the project area. We also meet annually with eight other NANA region villages including Noatak, Kivalina, Kotzebue, Kiana, Deering, Buckland, Selawik and Noorvik, for the purpose of updating residents on project plans and fielding their questions and concerns. We have also developed a good working relationship with the NWAB government.
The Arctic Project will be subject to a mine permitting process which will include compliance with the National Environmental Policy Act and will require a number of major mine permits from state and federal agencies as well as a significant number of minor permits. Although a number of federal conservation units are located in the general vicinity of the Arctic Project, including but not limited to the Gates of the Arctic National Parks, Kobuk Preserve, Selawik National Wildlife Refuge, and Kobuk Valley and Selawik Wilderness areas, there presence does not change the permitting process nor add to the number of permits required for the Arctic Project.
We will be required to develop a formal project description and detailed reclamation and closure plan to support a successful permit application strategy. The mine plan will embrace the concept of “design for closure”. In order to reduce any lasting risk of environmental impacts, the plan will minimize surface disturbances during operations and promote long-term stability of the site after closure.
No assurance can be given that new laws and regulations will not be enacted or that exiting laws and regulations will not be applied in a manner that could limit or curtail the Arctic Project. Amendments to current laws, regulations, licenses and permits governing operations and activities of mining companies, or more stringent implementation thereof, could have a material adverse impact on the Arctic Project and cause increases in capital expenditures or production costs, or reduction in levels of production, or abandonment, or delays in the development of the business.
Arctic Project - Current Activities
The focus of work on the Arctic Project in 2015 was drilling, surficial field investigations and desktop studies to support pre-feasibility. NovaCopper completed fourteen diamond drill holes for a total of 3,056 m of core; including twelve in-fill drill holes, representing 2,425 m, designed to evaluate vertical and lateral continuity of the high-grade polymetallic copper, gold, silver, lead and zinc mineralization, and support upgrading of inferred resources to measured and indicated resource classification within the area of the proposed Arctic open-pit as outlined in the PEA, and two drill holes, representing 631 m, specifically targeting geotechnical and hydrogeological information.
The drill program, sampling protocol and data verification were managed and overseen by qualified persons employed by NovaCopper. The twelve in-fill diamond drill holes were drilled at NQ diameter drill core and the two geotechnical drill holes were drilled at HQ diameter drill core by Boart Longyear of South Jordan, Utah. Samples in mineralized core were collected using a 0.3 -meter minimum length, 2.0 -meter maximum length and 0.9 -meter average sample length. Samples in un-mineralized core were collected using 2.0 -meter minimum length, 10-meter maximum length and 4-meter average sample length. Drill core recovery averaged 94% without overburden. Three quality control samples (one blank, one standard and one duplicate) were inserted into each batch of 20 samples. The drill core was either sawn or shipped as whole core, with samples sent to ALS Minerals, Fairbanks, Alaska for sample preparation and the sample pulps forwarded to ALS’s North Vancouver facility for analysis. ALS Minerals in North Vancouver, B.C., Canada, is a facility certified as ISO 9001:2008 and accredited to ISO / IEC 17025:2005 from the Standards Council of Canada. Based on a cut-off grade of 1.0% copper all fourteen drill holes intersected significant intervals; defined as a minimum of 1.0 meter copper interval with average grade >0.7% copper.
In addition to the drill program, NovaCopper contracted SRK Consulting of Vancouver, Canada (SRK) to conduct a dedicated field investigation comprised of drill logging, mapping, laboratory test work and downhole installations. A summary report detailing a gap analysis, desktop study findings and field investigation recommendations was issued prior to the drill program. Two dual purpose drill holes were completed for geotechnical (soil and rock) and hydrogeological data acquisition. Additionally, SRK hydrogeologists re-visited previously installed vibrating wire piezometers to ensure data loggers were operational and to download pore pressure measurement data. A civil geotechnical site visit was conducted to investigate surface conditions and provide comment on potential infrastructure and waste management facilities layout. Furthermore, structural mapping of exposed rock faces along the Arctic ridge along with downhole televiewer and structural logging of newly acquired drill core were consolidated with prior work to support a 3D structural model. Moving forward, SRK will use the 2015 field investigations to support rock geotechnical assessment, hydrogeological assessment and pit slope design which is intended to be used to support a future pre-feasibility study.
Under the guidance of SRK, NovaCopper initiated acid-base-accounting kinetic test work at Arctic; both on-site barrel testing and parallel laboratory humidity cells. In addition, NovaCopper collected samples from this year’s drill program to increase static testing coverage over the Arctic deposit - preliminary results are expected in Q1, 2016 and will be used to support a future pre-feasibility study.
Environmental baseline data collection continued in 2015, including 34,000 acres of wetlands delineation within the project area, which was completed by WHPacific of Anchorage, Alaska. Seventy percent of a LiDAR survey over the UKMP was completed by WHPacific and Quantum Spatial before weather conditions became unfavorable; NovaCopper plans to complete the remaining thirty percent of the LiDAR survey in 2016.
Bornite Project, Ambler District, Alaska
Bornite Project
Except for the information under the heading “Bornite Project - Current Activities” and except as otherwise stated, the scientific and technical information relating to the Bornite Project contained in this Form 10-K is derived from, and in some instances is an extract from, the technical report titled “NI 43-101 Technical Report on the Bornite Project, Northwest Alaska, USA” report dated effective March 18, 2014 released April 1, 2014 (the “Bornite Report”) prepared by BD Resource Consulting, Inc., SIM Geological Inc., and International Metallurgical & Environmental Inc. Except for the information under the heading “Bornite Project - Current Activities” and except as otherwise stated, Erin Workman, P.Geo., an employee and Director, Technical Services, is a Qualified Person as defined in 43-101, and has approved the scientific and technical information contained herein. The information regarding the Bornite Project is based on assumptions, qualifications and procedures which are not fully described herein. Reference should be made to the full text of the Bornite Report which has been filed with certain Canadian securities regulatory authorities pursuant to NI 43-101 and is available for review on SEDAR at www.sedar.com and on EDGAR at www.sec.gov.
Bornite Project - Property Description and Location
The Property is located in the Ambler mining district of the southern Brooks Range, in the NWAB of Alaska. The Property is located in Ambler River A-2 quadrangle, Kateel River Meridian T 19N, R 9E, sections 4, 5, 8 and 9. The Bornite Project is located 248 km east of the town of Kotzebue, 19 km north of the village of Kobuk, 275 km west of the Dalton Highway, an all-weather state maintained public road, at geographic coordinates N67.07° latitude and W156.94° longitude (Universal Transverse Mercator (UTM) North American Datum (NAD) 83, Zone 4W coordinates 7440449N, 589811E).
Bornite Project - Accessibility, Climate, Local Resources, Infrastructure, and Physiography
Primary access to the Project is by air, using both fixed wing aircraft and helicopters. There are four well maintained, approximately 1,500 m-long gravel airstrips located near the Property, capable of accommodating charter fixed wing aircraft. These airstrips are located 40 km west at Ambler, 23 km southwest at Shungnak, 19 km south at Kobuk, and 15 km south at Dahl Creek. There is daily commercial air service from Kotzebue to the village of Kobuk, the closest community to the Property. During the summer months, the Dahl Creek Camp airstrip is suitable for larger aircraft, such as C-130 and DC-6. In addition to the four 1,500 m airstrips, there is a 700 m airstrip located at the Bornite Camp. The airstrip at Bornite is suited to smaller aircraft, which support the Bornite Camp with personnel and supplies.
There is no direct water access to the Property. During spring runoff, river access is possible by barge from Kotzebue Sound to Ambler, Shungnak, and Kobuk via the Kobuk River.
An upgraded one-lane gravel road suitable for vehicles links the Bornite Camp to the Dahl Creek airstrip and camp and village of Kobuk.
The climate in the region is typical of a sub-arctic environment. Exploration is generally conducted from late May until late September. Weather conditions on the Project can vary significantly from year to year and can change suddenly. During the summer exploration season, average maximum temperatures range from 10°C to 20°C, while average lows range from -2°C to 7°C. By early October, unpredictable weather limits safe helicopter travel to the Project. During winter months, the Project can be accessed by snow machine, track vehicle, or fixed wing aircraft. Winter temperatures are routinely below -25°C and can exceed -50°C. Annual precipitation in the region averages at 395 mm with the most rainfall occurring from June through September, and the most snowfall occurring from November through January.
Drilling and mapping programs are seasonal and have been supported out of the Main Bornite Camp and Dahl Creek Camp. The main Bornite Camp facilities are located on Ruby Creek on the northern edge of the Cosmos Hills. The camp provides office space and accommodations for the geologists, drillers, pilots, and support staff. There are four 2-person cabins installed by NANA prior to our tenure. In 2011, the main Bornite Camp was expanded to 20 sleeping tents, 3 administrative tents, 2 shower/bathroom tents, 1 medical tent, and 1 dining/cooking tent. With these additions, the camp capacity was increased to 49 beds. A 30 m by 9 m core logging facility was also built in summer of 2011. An incinerator was installed near the Bornite airstrip to manage waste created by the Bornite Project. Power for the Bornite Project is supplied by a 175 kW Caterpillar diesel generator. Water is provided by a permitted artesian well located 250 m from the Bornite Camp. In 2012, the camp was further expanded with the addition of a laundry tent, a women's shower/washroom tent, a recreation tent, several additional sleeping tents, and a 2 x enlargement of the kitchen tent. Camp capacity increased to 76 beds. The septic field was upgraded to accommodate the increase in camp population. One of the two-person cabins was winterized for use by the winter caretaker. A permitted landfill was established to allow for the continued cleanup and rehabilitation of the historic shop facilities and surroundings. The Dahl Creek camp is an overflow or alternative facility to the main Bornite Camp. The Dahl Creek camp has a main cabin for dining and administrative duties, and a shower facility. Sleeping facilities include two hard-sided sleeping cabins with seven beds (primarily used for staff), one 4-person sleeping tents, and three 2-person sleeping tents for a total of 21 beds. There are support structures, including a shop and storage facilities.
The Bornite Project is located on Ruby Creek on the northern edge of the Cosmos Hills. The Cosmos Hills are part of the southern flank of the Brooks Range in Northwest Alaska. Topography in the area is moderately rugged. Maximum relief in the Cosmos Hills is approximately 1,000 masl with an average of 600 masl. Talus covers the upper portions of the hills; glacial and fluvial sediments occupy valleys. The Kobuk Valley is located at the transition between boreal forest and Arctic tundra. Spruce, birch, and poplar are found in portions of the valley, with a ground cover of lichens (reindeer moss). Willow and alder thickets and isolated cottonwoods follow drainages, and alpine tundra is found at higher elevations. Tussock tundra and low, heath-type vegetation covers most of the valley floor. Patches of permafrost exist on the Property. Wildlife in the Project area is typical of Arctic and Subarctic fauna. Larger animals include caribou, moose, Dall sheep, bears (grizzly and black), wolves, wolverines, coyotes, and foxes. Fish species include salmon, sheefish, arctic char, and arctic grayling. The Kobuk River, which briefly enters the UKMP on its southwest corner, is a significant salmon spawning river. The caribou on the Property belong to the Western Arctic herd that migrates twice a year - south in August, from their summer range north of the Brooks Range, and north in March from their winter range along the Buckland River.
Bornite Project - History
Kennecott and Bear Creek Mining Tenure
Regional exploration began in the early 1900s when gold prospectors noted copper occurrences in the hills north of Kobuk, Alaska. In 1947, local prospector Rhinehart “Rhiny” Berg along with various partners traversing in the area located outcropping mineralization along Ruby Creek (Bornite) on the north side of the Cosmos Hills. They subsequently staked claims over the Ruby Creek showings and constructed an airstrip for access. In 1957, BCMC, Kennecott's exploration subsidiary, optioned the property from Berg. Exploration drilling in 1961 and 1962 culminated in the discovery of the “No.1 Ore Body” where drill hole RC-34 cut 20 m of 24% copper (the “No.1 Ore Body” is a historic term used by BCMC that does not connote economic viability in the present context; it is convenient to continue to use the term to describe exploration work and historic resource estimation in a specific area of what is now generally known as Ruby Creek Upper Reef). The discovery of the “No.1 Ore Body” led to the development of an exploration shaft in 1966. The shaft, which reached a depth of 328 m, encountered a significant watercourse and was flooded near completion depth. The shaft was subsequently dewatered and an exploration drift was developed to provide access for sampling and mapping, and to accommodate underground drilling to further delineate mineralization. A total of 59 underground holes were drilled and, after the program, the shaft was allowed to re-flood. The discovery of the Arctic Project in 1965 prompted a hiatus in exploration at Bornite, and only limited drilling occurred up until 1976.
In the late 1990s, Kennecott resumed its evaluation of the Bornite deposit and the mineralization in the Cosmos Hills with an intensive soil, stream, and rock chip geochemical sampling program using 32 element ICP analyses. Grid soil sampling yielded 765 samples. Ridge and spur sampling resulted in an additional 850 soil samples in the following year. Skeletonized core samples (85 samples) from key historic drill holes were also analyzed using 32 element ICP analytical methods. Geochemical sampling identified multiple areas of elevated copper and zinc in the Bornite region.
Kennecott completed numerous geophysical surveys as an integral part of exploration throughout their tenure on the property. Various reports, notes, figures, and data files stored in Kennecott’s Salt Lake City exploration office indicated that geophysical work included, but was not limited to, the following:
• Airborne magnetic and EM surveys (fixed-wing INPUT) (1950s)
• Gravity, single point (“SP”), Audio-Frequency Magneto-Telluric (“AMT”), EM, borehole and surface IP/resistivity surveys (1960s)
• Gravity, airborne magnetic, and CSAMT surveys (1990s)
We have little information or documentation associated with these geophysical surveys conducted prior to the 1990s. Where data are available in these earlier surveys, the lack of details in data acquisition, coordinate systems, and data reduction procedures limit their usefulness. The only complete geophysical report available concerns down-hole IP/resistivity results. Most notable is the 1996 Bouger gravity survey from the Bornite deposit into the Ambler lowlands. The Bornite deposit itself is seen as a significant 3 milligal anomaly. Numerous 2 milligal to > 6 milligal anomalies occur under cover in the Ambler lowlands and near the Aurora Mountain and Pardner Hill occurrences. In addition to the geophysical surveys conducted by Kennecott, the ADNR completed an aeromagnetic survey of portions of the Ambler mining district in 1974-1975.
Several studies have been undertaken reviewing the geology and geochemistry of the Bornite deposit. Most notable is Murray Hitzman’s PhD dissertation at Stanford University and Don Runnel’s PhD dissertation at Harvard University. Bernstein and Cox reported on mineralization of the “No. 1 Ore Body” in a 1986 paper in Economic Geology. Kennecott conducted two technical reviews of the groundwater conditions and a summary of the findings related to the flooding of the exploration shaft.
In 1961, Kennecott collected 32 coarse reject samples from five drill holes to support preliminary metallurgical test work at Bornite. Samples targeted high-grade (> 10%) copper mineralization from the Upper Reef at Ruby Creek.
Bornite Project - Geological Setting and Mineralization
The Bornite Project is located within the Arctic Alaska Terrane, a sequence of mostly Paleozoic continental margin rocks that make up the Brooks Range and North Slope of Alaska. It is within the Phyllite Belt geologic subdivision, which together with the higher-grade Schist Belt, stretches almost the entire length of the Brooks Range and is considered to represent the hinterland of the Jurassic Brooks Range orogeny. The southern margin of the Phyllite Belt is marked by mélange and low angle faults associated with the Kobuk River fault zone, while the northern boundary is thought to be gradational with the higher-grade metamorphic rocks of the Schist Belt.
The geology of the Bornite resource area is composed of alternating beds of carbonate rocks (limestone and dolostone) and calcareous phyllite. Limestone transitions laterally into dolostone, which hosts the majority of the mineralization and is considered to be hydrothermal in origin. Spatial relationships and petrographic work establish dolomitization as genetically related to early stages of the copper mineralizing system.
Potentially the earliest and most prominent structure in the resource area is the northeast-trending, steeply northwest-dipping Iron Mountain structure. The structure shows significant displacement of basal quartz phyllite to the east across the structure and has been interpreted as: a pre or syn-mineral (Devonian) growth fault; or, the post-mineral (Cretaceous) axis of a small overturned kink fold. To the north, the Bornite Carbonate sequence is in fault contact with the Beaver Creek phyllite along the moderately north-dipping Beaver Creek fault. The fault, a thick, brittle structure of potentially regional significance, defines the roughly bedded parallel base of the Beaver Creek phyllite and the Bornite Carbonate sequence in the immediate Bornite area. Both the Beaver Creek fault and the Bornite Carbonate sequence are cut by a series of north-trending high angle structures of apparent small displacement.
Mineralization at Bornite occurs as tabular mineralized zones that coalesce into crudely stratiform bodies hosted in secondary dolomite. Two significant dolomitic horizons that host mineralization have been mapped by drilling and include: 1) the Lower Reef, a thick 100 to 300 m thick dolomitized zone lying immediately above the basal quartz phyllite unit of the Anirak Schist; and 2) the Upper Reef, a 100 to 150 m thick dolomite horizon roughly 300 m higher in section.
The Lower Reef dolomite outcrops along the southern margin of the Ruby Creek zone and is spatially extensive throughout the deposit area. It hosts a significant portion of the shallow resources in the Ruby Creek zone as well as higher grade resources down dip and to the northeast in the South Reef. The Upper Reef zone hosts relatively high-grade resources to the north in the Ruby Creek zone. The Upper reef zone appears to lie at an important NE- trending facies transition to the NW of the main drilled area and locally appears to be at least partially thrust over the Lower Reef stratigraphy to the southeast.
Drill results from 2013 show dolomitization and copper mineralization in the Upper and Lower Reefs coalescing into a single horizon along the northern limits of current exploration. The NE- trending Ruby Creek and South Reef zones also coalesce into a roughly 1000 m wide zone of >200 m thick dolomite containing significant copper mineralization dipping north at roughly 5-10 degrees.
Bornite Project - Mineralization
Copper mineralization at Bornite is comprised of chalcopyrite, bornite, and chalcocite distributed in stacked, roughly stratiform zones exploiting favourable stratigraphy within the dolomitized limestone package. Mineralization occurs, in order of increasing grade, as disseminations, irregular and discontinuous stringer-style veining, breccia matrix replacement, and stratiform massive sulphides. The distribution of copper mineral species is zoned around the bottom-centre of each zone, with bornite-chalcocite-chalcopyrite at the core and progressing outward to chalcopyrite-pyrite. Additional volumetrically minor copper species include carrollite, digenite, tennantite-tetrahedrite, and covellite. Stringer pyrite and locally significant sphalerite occur above and around the copper zones, while locally massive pyrite and sparse pyrrhotite occur in association with siderite alteration below copper mineralization in the Lower Reef.
In addition to the copper mineralization, significant cobalt mineralization is found accompanying bornite-chalcocite mineralization. Cobalt occurs with high-grade copper as both carrollite (Co2CuS4) and as cobaltiferous rims on recrystallized pyrite grains.
Appreciable silver values are also found with bornite-rich mineralization in the South Reef and Ruby Creek zones.
Bornite Project - Exploration
Exploration in and around the Bornite Project by Kennecott from 1957 to 1998 is summarized above. In addition to the extensive drilling completed during the more than 40 year tenure of Kennecott in the district, Kennecott completed widespread surface geochemical sampling, regional and property scale mapping, and numerous geophysical surveys employing a wide variety of techniques. The majority of this data has been acquired by us and forms the basis for renewed exploration that targets Bornite-style mineralization in the Bornite carbonate sequence.
NovaGold as the precursor company to us began to actively pursue an agreement to explore the Bornite Project with NANA in 2005 resulting in an initial airborne geophysical survey in 2006. Negotiations on the consolidation and exploration of the entire Ambler district continued for the next several years culminating in the NANA Agreement in October, 2011.
With the NANA Agreement approaching completion, NovaGold initiated work in 2010 to begin to characterize the exploration potential and depositional controls by re-logging and re-analyzing select drill holes with a Niton portable x-ray fluorescence (“XRF”) to determine geochemical variability. In 2011, NovaGold began an initial drill program to verify the historical database and exploration potential and conducted additional geophysical surveys to provide better targeting tools for continued exploration in the district. In 2012, we expanded the IP geophysical coverage completing a major district-wide survey that targeted the prospective Bornite Carbonate sequence. Subsequent resource drilling between 2011 and 2013 based on the exploration targeting is discussed in the “Bornite Project - Mineral Resource Estimates” section below.
2006 NovaGold Exploration
In 2006, NovaGold contracted Fugro Airborne Surveys to complete a detailed helicopter DIGHEM magnetic, EM and radiometric survey of the Cosmos Hills. The survey covered a rectangular block approximately 18 km by 49 km which totaled 2,852 line kilometres. The survey was flown at 300 m line spacing with a line direction of N20E. The DIGHEM helicopter survey system produced detailed profile data of magnetics, EM responses and radiometrics (total count, uranium, thorium, and potassium) and was processed into maps of magnetics, discrete EM anomalies, EM apparent resistivity, and radiometric responses.
2010 NovaGold Exploration
In 2010, in anticipation of completing the NANA Agreement, NANA granted NovaGold permission to begin low level exploration at Bornite; this consisted of re-logging and re-analyzing select drill holes using a Niton portable XRF. In addition to the 2010 re-logging effort, NovaGold contracted a consulting geophysicist, Lou O'Connor, to compile a unified airborne magnetic map for the Ambler mining district from Kennecott, Alaska DNR, and NovaGold airborne geophysical surveys.
2011 NovaGold Exploration
In 2011, NovaGold contracted Zonge International Inc. (“Zonge”) to conduct both dipole-dipole complex resistivity induced polarization (“CRIP”) and natural source audio-magnetotelluric (“NSAMT”) surveys over the northern end of the prospect to develop tools for additional exploration targeting under cover to the north.
NSAMT data were acquired along two lines totaling 5.15 line-km, with one line oriented generally north-south through the centre of the survey area and one being the southernmost east-west line in the survey area. CRIP data were acquired on five lines: four east-west lines and one north-south line, for a total coverage of 14.1 line-km and 79 collected CRIP stations. The initial objective of the survey was to investigate geological structures and the distribution of sulphides possibly associated with copper mineralization.
Results from the paired surveys show that wide-spaced dipole-dipole resistivity is the most effective technique to directly target the mineralization package. Broad low resistivity anomalies reflecting pyrite haloes and mineralization appear to define the limits of the fluid package. Well-defined and often very strong chargeability anomalies are also present, but appear in part to be masked by phyllitic units which also have strong chargeability signatures. The NSAMT show similar resistivity features as the IP, but are less well resolved.
2012 NovaCopper Exploration
In light of the success of the 2011 geophysical program, we contracted Zonge to conduct a major district-wide dipole/dipole IP survey, a down-hole IP radial array survey in the South Reef area, and an extensive physical property characterization study of the various lithologies to better interpret the existing historical geophysical data.
Zonge completed 48 line km of 200 m dipole/dipole IP during 2012, infilling and expanding on the 2011 survey, and stretching across the most prospective part of the outcropping permissive Bornite Carbonate sequence. The results show a well-defined low resistivity area associated with mineralization and variable IP signatures attributed both to mineralization and the overlying Beaver Creek phyllite. Numerous target areas occur in the immediate Bornite area with lesser targets occurring in the Aurora Mountain and Pardner Hill areas and in the far east of the survey area. During the 2012 drill program at South Reef, a single drill hole was targeted on a low resistivity area approximately 500 m to 600 m southeast of the South Reef mineralization trend. Although the drill hole intersected some dolomite alteration in the appropriate stratigraphy, no significant sulphides were encountered.
In addition to the extensive ground IP survey, Zonge also completed 9 km of down-hole radial IP using an electrode placed in drill hole RC12-0197 to further delineate the trend and potential in and around the South Reef. In addition to the 2012 ground geophysical surveys, extensive physical property data including resistivity, chargeability, specific gravity, and magnetic susceptibility were captured for use in modelling the existing ground IP and gravity surveys, and the airborne EM and magnetic surveys.
In addition to geophysical focused exploration, a district wide geologic map was compiled integrating Kennecott’s 1970’s mapping of the Cosmos Hills with selective NovaCopper mapping in 2012.
2013 NovaCopper Exploration
The emphasis of the 2013 program was to further validate and refine the 2012 geologic map of the Cosmos Hills. A deep penetrating soil and vegetation geochemical orientation survey was completed over the South Reef deposit, utilizing various partial leaches and pH methods. The initial, approximately 1 km, test lines suggest a good response for several of the partial leaches of the soils but little response in the vegetative samples; further follow-up is warranted to the north of the deposit into the Ambler lowlands.
2014 NovaCopper Exploration
In 2014, we undertook a significant drill core re-sampling and re-assaying program at the Bornite Project consisting of approximately 13,000 m in 37 historical drill holes, which were originally drilled by Kennecott on the Bornite Project between 1959 and 1976. The objectives of the re-logging/re-sampling program were threefold: 1) to identify additional low-grade (<1% copper) near-surface mineralized material which had not been previously sampled; 2) to confirm and conduct a QA/QC program on the historical sample results; and 3) to acquire a full geochemical data suite for the Ruby Creek zone which can be utilized in future geological modeling.
We submitted 5,819 samples for assaying. Of the submitted samples, 5,134 (11,149 meters) were from previously un-sampled drill core. The remaining 685 samples (1,503 meters) were from drill core that was previously sampled by Kennecott and sent for re-assaying to confirm results. Of the 11,149 meters of historic drill core previously un-sampled, 5 holes had intervals of copper grading more than 0.5% copper, and 21 holes contained mineralization grading more than 0.2% copper.
The 2014 logging and sampling campaign followed consistent sampling methodology, assay and analytical procedures as described below in “Bornite Project - Sample Preparation, Analyses and Security”.
Bornite Project - Drilling
A total of 183 surface core holes and 51 underground core holes, totaling 78,147 m have been drilled, targeting the Bornite deposit during 21 different annual campaigns dating from 1957 through 2013. All of the drill campaigns, with the exception of the 2011 NovaGold campaign and the 2012 and 2013 NovaCopper campaigns were completed by Kennecott or their exploration subsidiary BCMC. All drill holes (except RC13-230 and RC13-232 which have been reserved for metallurgical studies) were utilized in the estimation of the current resource.
Sprague and Henwood, a Pennsylvania-based drilling company, completed all of the Kennecott drilling, with the exception of the 1997 program (three drill holes) completed by Tonto Drilling Services, Inc. (a NANA-Dynatech company). The 2011 thru 2013 NovaGold/NovaCopper programs used Boart Longyear Company as the drill contractor.
In the initial years of drilling at Bornite, Kennecott relied on AX core (1.1875 in or 30.2 mm diameter), but, as drilling migrated towards deeper targets, a change to BX core (1.625 in or 41.3 mm diameter) was implemented to help limit deviation. From 1966 to 1967, drilling activity at Bornite moved underground and EX diameter core (0.845 in or 21.5 mm diameter) was implemented to define the Ruby Creek Upper Reef zone “No.1 Ore Body”. Drilling activity moved back to the surface in 1968, and, from 1968 to 1972, BX core was most commonly drilled. In later years, core size increased to NX (2.125 in or 54.0 mm diameter) and finally, in 2011, core size increased to NQ (1.874 in or 47.6 mm diameter) and HQ (2.5 in or 63.5 mm diameter). Progressively larger diameter drill rods have been continually used over the years in an attempt to minimize drill hole deviations.
There is only partial knowledge of specific drill core handling procedures used by Kennecott during their tenure at the Bornite Deposit. All of the drill data collected during the Kennecott drilling programs (1958 to 1997) was logged on paper drill logs, copies of which are stored in the Kennecott office in Salt Lake City, Utah. Electronic scanned copies of the paper logs, in PDF format, are held by NovaCopper. Drill core was sawed or split with a splitter, with half core submitted to various assay labs and the remainder stored in the Kennecott core storage facility at the Bornite Deposit. In 1995, Kennecott entered the drill assay data, the geologic core logs, and the down hole collar survey data into an electronic format. In 2009, NovaGold geologists verified the geologic data from the original paper logs against the Kennecott electronic format and then merged the data into a Microsoft™ SQL database. Sampling of drill core by Kennecott and BCMC focused primarily on the moderate to high grade mineralized zones. Intervals of visible sulphide mineralization containing roughly >0.5 to 1% copper were selected for analysis by Union Assay Office Inc. of Salt Lake City, Utah. This approach left numerous intervals containing weak to moderate copper mineralization un-sampled in the historic drill core.
Throughout our tenure at Bornite, the following core handling procedures have been implemented. Core is slung by helicopter, or transported by truck or ATV, from the drill rig to the core-logging facility. Upon delivery, geologists and geotechnicians open and inspect the core boxes for any irregularities. They first mark the location of each drilling block on the core box, and then convert footages on the blocks into metric equivalents. Geotechnicians or geologists measure the intervals (or “from/to”) for each box of core and include this information, together with the drill hole ID and box number, on a metal tag stapled to the end of each box. Geotechnicians then measure the core to calculate percent recovery and rock quality designation (“RQD”). RQD is the sum of the total length of all pieces of core over 12 cm in a run. The total length of core in each run is measured and compared to the corresponding run length to determine percent recovery. Core is then logged with lithology and visual alteration features captured on observed interval breaks. Mineralization data, including total sulphide (recorded as percent), sulphide type (recorded as a relative amount), and gangue and vein mineralogy are collected for each sample interval with an average interval of approximately 2 m. Structural data is collected as point data. Geologists then mark sample intervals to capture each lithology or other geologically appropriate intervals. Sample intervals of core are typically between 1 m and 3 m in length but are not to exceed 3 m in length. Occasionally, if warranted by the need for better resolution of geology or mineralization, smaller sample intervals have been employed. Geologists staple sample tags on the core boxes at the start of each sample interval, and mark the core itself with a wax pencil to designate sample intervals. This sampling approach is considered sound and appropriate for this style of mineralization and alteration. Drill core is digitally photographed prior to sampling. Drill core is cut in half using diamond core saws. Specific attention to core orientation is maintained during core sawing to ensure that representative samples are obtained. One-half of the core is retained in the core box for storage on site, or at our Fairbanks warehouse, and the other half bagged and labeled for analysis. Samples are selected for specific gravity measurements.
In 2013, 33 historic Kennecott drill holes in the Ruby Creek area were re-logged and re-sampled as these holes had previously only been selectively sampled by Kennecott. Entire holes were re-logged utilizing NovaCopper protocols discussed above. Samples were submitted either as half-core, where previously sampled, or whole core where un-sampled (this was done to ensure that a sufficient volume of material was provided for analysis). Sample intervals were matched to historic intervals whenever possible, or selected to reflect NovaCopper sampling procedures described above. The objectives of the re-assay/re-logging program were threefold: 1) to implement a QA/QC program on intervals previously sampled by Kennecott in order to confirm the validity of their results; 2) to identify additional lower-grade (0.2 -0.5% copper), which was not previously sampled; and 3) to provide additional multi-element ICP data to assist in the geologic interpretation of the deposit.
In 2014, 37 historic Kennecott drill holes in the Ruby Creek area were re-logged and re-sampled; however, it should be noted that the 2014 re-sampling campaign described above (2014 NovaCopper Exploration) was not utilized in the estimation of the current resource (Bornite Project). Re-logging and re-sampling protocols for the 2014 program were consistent with the 2013 program discussed above.
Bornite Project - Sample Preparation, Analyses and Security
Sample preparation, analytical lab accreditation and security measures taken during historical Kennecott and BCMC programs are unknown to us; however, we are not aware of any reason to suspect that any of these samples have been tampered with. The 2011 to 2014 samples were either in the custody of NovaGold or NovaCopper personnel or the assay laboratories at all times, and the chain of custody of the samples is well documented.
Between 2011 and 2013, once drill core was sawed, one half was retained for future reference and the other half was sent to ALS Minerals (formerly ALS Chemex) in Vancouver for analyses. Shipment of core samples from the Bornite camp occurred whenever backhaul capacity was available on the chartered aircraft, which was generally 5 to 6 days a week. Rice bags, containing two to four individual poly-bagged core samples, were marked and labeled with the ALS Minerals address, project name (Bornite), drill hole number, bag number, and sample numbers enclosed. Rice bags were secured with a pre-numbered plastic security tie, assembled into loads for transport by chartered flights on a commercial airline to Fairbanks, and directly delivered by a contracted expeditor to the ALS Minerals preparation facility in Fairbanks. In addition to the core samples, control samples were inserted into the shipments at the approximate rate of one standard, one blank and one duplicate per 17 core samples. Samples were logged into a tracking system on arrival at ALS Minerals, and weighed. Samples were then crushed, dried, and a 250 g split was pulverized to greater than 85% passing 75 μm.
Gold assays in 2011 and 2012 were determined using fire analysis followed by an atomic absorption spectroscopy (“AAS”) finish; gold was not analyzed in 2013 or 2014. The lower detection limit was 0.005 ppm gold; the upper limit was 10 ppm gold. An additional 48-element suite was assayed by inductively coupled plasma-mass spectrometry (“ICP-MS”) and ICP-AES methodologies, following a four acid digest. Over limit (>1.0%) copper and zinc analyses were completed by AA, following a four acid digest.
ALS Minerals has attained International Organization for Standardization (ISO) 9001:2000 registration. In addition, the ALS Minerals laboratory in Vancouver is accredited to ISO 17025 by Standards Council of Canada for a number of specific test procedures including fire assay of gold by AA, ICP and gravimetric finish, multi-element ICP and AA assays for silver, copper, lead and zinc. NovaCopper has no relationship with any primary or check assay labs utilized.
During 2012, 2013 and 2014, NovaCopper staff performed continuous validation of the drill data; both while logging was in progress and after the drill season was complete. NovaCopper also retained independent consultant Caroline Vallat, P.Geo. of GeoSpark Consulting Inc. to: 1) import digital drill data to the master database and conduct QA/QC checks upon import, 2) conduct a QA/QC review of paired historical assays and NovaCopper 2012 and 2013 re-assays; 3) monitor an independent check assay program for the 2012, 2013, and 2014 sampling campaigns; and 4) generate a QA/QC report for the 2012, 2013, and 2014 sampling campaigns.
Bornite Project - Mineral Resource Estimates
The mineral resource estimate has been prepared by Bruce M. Davis, FAusIMM, BD Resource Consulting, and Robert Sim, P.Geo., SIM Geological Inc., both “Independent Qualified Persons” as defined in NI 43-101. We have filed two previous NI 43-101 Technical Reports on the Bornite Project dated July 18, 2012 and February 5, 2013. The effective date of this resource is March 18, 2014.
In 2013, we drilled an additional 17 holes at Bornite totaling 8,142 m of which 4,684 m was drilled at the Ruby Creek zone and 3,458 m at the South Reef zone. The program expanded the lateral, down-dip, extents in the northern part of the deposit and also provided additional delineation of some internal parts of the western Ruby Creek area. In addition to the 2013 drilling, we completed an extensive sampling program of 33 historical drill holes located in the Ruby Creek area that were drilled but only selectively sampled by Kennecott. This program has resulted in providing better continuity of mineral resources the Ruby Creek area. The 2014 re-logging and re-sampling program results “2014 NovaCopper Exploration” are not included in this resource statement.
The mineral resource estimate utilizes two-meter compositing of assays from 216 drill holes completed between 1961 and 2013. Estimated blocks were 5 x 5 x 5 meters on a side. Seven domains were established for the estimation, all of which were treated as hard boundaries with no mixing of data between the domains. The domains include two high-grade carbonate domains inside a 2% copper probability shell, three moderate-grade carbonate domains inside a 0.2% copper probability shell, one weakly-mineralized carbonate domain outside the 0.2% copper probability shell, and one weak-unmineralized phyllite domain. Visual inspections of the probability shells show that they fit well with observed levels of bornite, chalcocite and chalcopyrite mineralization.
Based on the interpreted local high-grade nature of the mineralization, both capping and outlier restriction strategies were implemented to control the influence of high-grade mineralization in the resource model. This methodology removed approximately 5% of the contained copper in the Ruby Creek Zone and 8% of the contained copper in the South Reef Zone. Copper grades are interpolated in model blocks using ordinary kriging with a minimum of one and a maximum of twenty composited samples and a maximum of five samples from a single drill hole. A total of 4,472 specific gravity measurements, of which 40% are within the mineralized shells, were utilized to estimate densities in the block model. Specific gravity values were estimated into model blocks using inverse distance squared moving averages using the domains described previously.
The block models were validated through several methods: a thorough visual review of the model grades in relation to the underlying drill hole sample grades; comparisons with the change of support model; comparisons with other estimation methods; and, grade distribution comparisons using swath plots.
Resources included in the Indicated category includes blocks in the model that are within a maximum average distance of 35 meters from three or more drill holes and exhibit a relatively high degree of confidence in the grade and continuity of mineralization. Resources in the Inferred category require a minimum of one drill hole within a maximum distance of 100 meters and exhibit reasonable confidence in the grade and continuity of mineralization.
In the opinion of the Qualified Persons, the resource evaluation reported herein is a sound representation of the copper mineral resources found on the Bornite Project at the current level of sampling. The mineral resources have been estimated in conformity with generally accepted CIM Estimation of Mineral Resources and Mineral Reserves Best Practices Guidelines and are reported in accordance with the Canadian Securities Administrators’ NI 43-101. Mineral resources are not mineral reserves and do not have demonstrated economic viability. There is no certainty that all or any part of the mineral resource will be converted into mineral reserve.
Tests for reasonable prospects for economic viability suggest that the resource is potentially amenable to a combination of open pit and underground extraction methods. The estimate of mineral resources for the Bornite Project are summarized in, “Bornite Project - Mineral Resource Statement”.
Bornite Project - Mineral Resource Statement
Mineral Resources are classified in accordance with the 2010 CIM Definition Standards for Mineral Resources and Mineral Reserves.
The Qualified Persons for the Mineral Resource estimate are Bruce Davis and Robert Sim, both Qualified Person’s independent of us. Mineral Resources for the Bornite Project are found in Table 7 and Table 8.
Table 7: Indicated Resource Estimate for the Bornite Project
See “Cautionary Note to United States Investors” This section uses the term “indicated resources”. We advise United States investors that these terms are not recognized by the SEC. United States investors are cautioned not to assume that estimates of indicated mineral resources are economically minable, or will be upgraded into measured mineral resources. See “Risk Factors” and “Cautionary Note to United States Investors”.
Notes: 1.
These resource estimates have been prepared in accordance with NI 43-101 and the CIM Definition Standards. Mineral resources that are not mineral reserves do not have demonstrated economic viability. See “Risk Factors” and “Cautionary Note to United States Investors.”
2.
Resources stated as contained within a pit shell developed using a metal price of US$3.00/lb Cu, mining costs of US$2.00/tonne, milling costs of US$11/tonne, G&A cost of US$5.00/tonne, 87% metallurgical recoveries and an average pit slope of 43 degrees.
3.
Rounding as required by reporting guidelines may result in apparent summation differences between tonnes, grade and contained metal content.
4.
Tonnage and grade measurements are in metric units. Contained copper are reported as imperial pounds.
5.
All amounts are stated in U.S. dollars unless otherwise noted.
Table 8: Inferred Resource Estimate for the Bornite Project
See “Cautionary Note to United States Investors” This section uses the term “inferred resources”. We advise United States investors that these terms are not recognized by the SEC. The estimation of inferred resources involves far greater uncertainty as to their existence and economic viability than the estimation of other categories of resources. United States investors are cautioned not to assume that estimates of inferred mineral resources exist, are economically minable, or will be upgraded into measured or indicated mineral resources. See “Risk Factors” and “Cautionary Note to United States Investors”.
Notes: 1.
These resource estimates have been prepared in accordance with NI 43-101 and the CIM Definition Standards. See “Risk Factors” and “Cautionary Note to United States Investors.”
2.
Resources stated as contained within a pit shell developed using a metal price of US$3.00/lb Cu, mining costs of US$2.00/tonne, milling costs of US$11/tonne, G&A cost of US$5.00/tonne, 87% metallurgical recoveries and an average pit slope of 43 degrees.
3.
Rounding as required by reporting guidelines may result in apparent summation differences between tonnes, grade and contained metal content.
4.
Tonnage and grade measurements are in metric units. Contained copper are reported as imperial pounds.
5.
All amounts are stated in U.S. dollars unless otherwise noted.
There are no known factors related to environmental, permitting, legal, title, taxation, socio-economic, marketing or political issues which could materially affect the mineral resource.
Bornite Project - Metallurgy
Metallurgical testwork to date indicates that the Bornite Project can be treated using standard grinding and flotation methods to produce copper concentrates. Initial testing indicates copper recoveries of approximately 87% resulting in concentrate grades of approximately 28% copper with very low potential penalty elements. Further metallurgical testwork is warranted to test these assumptions.
Bornite Project - Environmental Considerations
The Bornite Project area includes NANA’s Bornite and ANCSA lands, the Ruby Creek drainage (a tributary of the Shungnak River), the Shungnak River drainage, and portions of the Ambler Lowlands. Since 2007, baseline environmental data collection has occurred in the area including archaeology, aquatic life surveys, sediment sampling, wetlands mapping, surface water quality sampling, hydrology, meteorological monitoring, and subsistence. Additional baseline environmental data in NANA’s Bornite and ANCSA lands, the Ruby Creek drainage, the Shungnak River drainage, portions of the Ambler Lowlands, and downstream receiving environments will be required to support future mine design, development of an EIS, permitting, construction and operations.
Bornite Project - Mining Operations
The Bornite Project is not currently in production; for contemplated exploration or development activities see below.
Bornite Project - Exploration and Development Permitting
Development of the Bornite Project will require a significant number of permits and authorizations from state, federal, and regional organizations. Much of the groundwork to support a successful permitting effort must be undertaken prior to submission of permit applications so that issues can be identified and resolved, baseline data can be acquired, and regulators and stakeholders can become familiar with the proposed project. The comprehensive permitting process for the Bornite Project can be divided into three categories:
1.
Exploration state/regional permitting: required to obtain approval for drilling, camp operations, engineering, and environmental baseline studies.
2.
Pre-application phase: conducted in conjunction with engineering feasibility studies. This stage includes the collection of environmental baseline data and interaction with stakeholders and regulators to facilitate the development of a project that can be successfully permitted.
3.
The National Environmental Policy Act phase: formal agency review of the Federal and State requirements for public and agency participation to determine if and how the Project can be done in an acceptable manner.
The permit review process will determine the number of management plans required to address all aspects of the Project to ensure compliance with environmental design and permit criteria. Each plan will describe the appropriate environmental engineering standard and the applicable operations requirements, maintenance protocols, and response actions.
Bornite Project - Current Activities
Field work at the Bornite Project was limited in 2015 to a deep penetrating soil and vegetation geochemical survey, as the company focussed field investigations and drilling activities on advancing its Arctic Project towards pre-feasibility. Within the greater project area environmental baseline data collection continued, including 34,000 acres of wetlands delineation, which was completed by WHPacific of Anchorage, Alaska. Seventy percent of a LiDAR survey over the UKMP was completed by WHPacific and Quantum Spatial before weather conditions became unfavorable; NovaCopper plans to complete the remaining thirty percent of the LiDAR survey in 2016.
The Bornite geological model was updated in 2015 to include the results of the 2014 re-logging and re-sampling program. NovaCopper plans to incorporate the updated geological model and the 2014 re-assays into future resource evaluations.
Titiribi Project, Antioquia, Colombia
On June 19, 2015, NovaCopper completed the arrangement with Sunward. As a result, NovaCopper, through wholly-owned subsidiaries, owns 100% of the Titiribi gold-copper exploration project located approximately 70 kilometers southwest of the city of Medellin, in Antioquia Department, Colombia. The Titiribi project’s principle mining title is concession 5085, which was created by the consolidation of five concessions and four exploration licenses. This concession, comprising of an area of 3,919 hectares, was registered with the National Mining Registry on April 18, 2013 and expires in 2043.
A modest exploration program was performed in 2015 in order to meet the expenditure obligations in Colombia. We do not consider the Titiribi Project to be material to the Company.
Item 3.