Item 2. PROPERTIES
The following descriptions summarize selected information about our Upper Kobuk Mineral Projects, which are located in the Ambler mining district of Alaska and include the Arctic Project and the Bornite Project. All of the Upper Kobuk Mineral Projects are without known reserves, as defined under SEC Industry Guide 7, and all proposed programs for the properties are exploratory in nature.
Arctic Project, Ambler District, Alaska
Arctic - Technical Report
Except with respect to the land size disclosure and the disclosure regarding the number of claims (which were both increased subsequent to the effective date of the PEA), and the information under the heading “Arctic Project - Current Activities”, or as otherwise stated, the scientific and technical information relating to the Arctic Project contained in this Form 10-K is derived from, and in some instances is an extract from, the technical report titled “NI 43-101 Preliminary Economic Assessment, Ambler Project, Kobuk, AK” dated effective February 1, 2012 prepared by Neil Rigby, PhD, CEng, MIMM, Russ White, P. Geo., Jeffrey Volk, MSc, CPG, FAusIMM, Terry Braun, P.E., M.S. and Eric J. Olin, MSc, MBA, RM-SME all of whom work for SRK Consulting (U.S.), Inc. (“SRK”), and all of whom are Qualified Persons as defined in NI 43-101. Scott Petsel, P. Geo, an employee to the Company and a Qualified Person as defined in NI 43-101, approved the scientific and technical information under the heading “Arctic Project -Current Activities,” and the land size disclosure and the disclosure regarding the number of claims for the Ambler lands. The information regarding the Arctic Project is based on assumptions, qualifications and procedures which are not fully described herein. Reference should be made to the full text of the PEA which has been filed with certain Canadian securities regulatory authorities pursuant to NI 43-101 and is available for review on SEDAR at www.sedar.com and on EDGAR at www.sec.gov.
Arctic Project - Overview
The Ambler lands comprises 112,946 acres (45,708 hectares) of State of Alaska mining claims and Federal patented mining claims located in the Ambler mining district, in the southern Brooks Range of Northwest Alaska at geographic coordinates N67.17º latitude and W156.38º longitude, within which VMS mineralization can be found. The current size of the Ambler lands are approximately 65km long x 8km wide and comprises a total of 45,708 hectares.
Exploration on the Arctic Project was intermittent between discovery in 1965 and 1998. From 1998 until 2003, there was no work performed on the Arctic Project. An exploration agreement was signed on March 22, 2004, as amended, between Kennecott Arctic Company and NovaGold under which NovaGold had the ability to earn a 51% interest in the Ambler lands. Since 2004, NovaGold has been performing project level and regional mapping, drilling, geophysics and geochemical surveys.
Under a purchase agreement dated December 18, 2009 between NovaGold, its wholly-owned subsidiary Alaska Gold Company and Kennecott Exploration Company and Kennecott Arctic Company (collectively, “Kennecott”) NovaGold agreed to pay Kennecott a total purchase price of $29 million for a 100% interest in the Ambler lands, to be paid as to: $5 million by the issuance of 931,098 NovaGold common shares and two instalments of $12 million in cash each, due 12 months and 24 months, respectively, from the closing date on January 7, 2010. Kennecott retained a security interest in the Ambler lands to secure these cash payments. The NovaGold shares were issued in January 2010, the first $12 million payment was made on January 7, 2011 and the second $12 million payment was made early on August 5, 2011 and Kennecott released its security interest. Kennecott retained a 1% net smelter royalty that it had subsequently sold to a third party that is purchasable by the Company at any time for a one-time payment of $10 million.
The Ambler lands host a number of deposits, including the high-grade copper-zinc-lead-gold-silver Arctic deposit, which was the focus of the PEA. The Arctic deposit is currently estimated at 19.4 million tonnes of indicated mineral resources grading 4.05% Cu, 5.81 % Zn, 0.97% Pb, 0.80g/t Au and 59.55 g/t Ag and 11.4 million tonnes of inferred mineral resources grading 3.47% Cu, 4.84% Zn, 0.80% Pb, 0.64g/t Au and 46.75g/t Ag.
Based on the PEA, mining of the Arctic Project is envisioned as an underground operation processing up to 4,000 tonnes of material per day. The current estimated resource base of 19.4 million tonnes of indicated mineral resources and 11.4 million tonnes of inferred mineral resources support a 25-year mine life. The mine is anticipated to produce three concentrates: a copper concentrate with gold byproduct, a lead concentrate with silver and gold byproducts and a zinc concentrate with silver byproduct, with copper cash costs, net of byproducts at long-term metal prices estimated at $0.89/lb copper. Average annual payable metal production is forecast at 69 million pounds of copper, 80 million pounds of zinc, 12 million pounds of lead, 11,000 ounces of gold and 899,000 ounces of silver. Life-of-mine (“LOM”) payable metal production is estimated at approximately 1.7 billion pounds of copper, 2.0 billion pounds of zinc, 312 million pounds of lead, 267,000 ounces of gold and 22 million ounces of silver. The production schedule is based on processing average-grade material through the life of the operation of a total of 29.9 million tonnes, with potential upside to be obtained by mining higher-grade ore during the early years of the project.
Start-up capital is estimated at $262 million including a 25% contingency of $52 million which is envisioned as a three year construction period. Sustaining capital of $134 million comprises primarily underground development, equipment and tailings dam expansion throughout the mine life and includes a contingency of $34 million. The total LOM capital cost estimate is $430 million, which is considered accurate to ±30%.
Arctic Project cash costs, defined as the sum of total operating, freight, marketing, and royalty costs, are estimated at $132/t milled. Operating costs include mining and processing costs estimated at $48.6/t milled and $29.6/t milled, respectively. Operating costs include annual payments of $15 million for 20 years beginning in the sixth year of mine operations to the State of Alaska for road access as more fully discussed below.
Using base case metal prices of $2.50/lb copper, $1.05/lb zinc, $1.00/lb lead, $1,100/oz gold and $20/oz silver, project value on a post-tax basis (NPV8%) is $533 million with an IRR of 26%. Post-tax cash flow is estimated at $1.7 billion, with full payback occurring in year three of operations using base case metal prices. A one percent change of discount rate was evaluated.
Because of the remote location of the Arctic Project, infrastructure, specifically transport of material and personnel to and from the Arctic Project and power, are the largest cost items. There is no developed surface access to the Arctic Project area and no power infrastructure near the Arctic Project area.
Infrastructure required for the project includes building and upgrading an access road connecting the mine site to the village of Kobuk, camp accommodations, administration and maintenance facilities, the mine and plant site area, the tailings facility and diesel power generation. Due to the remote location of the project, primary access is currently by air using both fixed wing aircraft and helicopters. SRK examined various alternatives for improved access to the project area and transport of materials. Of these alternatives, access to the project is proposed to be via a road approximately 340 kilometers (211 miles) long extending west from the Dalton Highway along generally level terrain to the village of Kobuk, where it would connect with existing roads to the proposed project area. We have had constructive discussions with the State of Alaska regarding the concept of a public/private partnership for construction and operation of the road. For the PEA, SRK has assumed that the road would be designed and constructed by the State of Alaska. We would then reimburse the State on an agreed-upon basis over the operating life of the mine. A similar arrangement exists between the State and the Red Dog mine in northwest Alaska for its road and port facility. For the purposes of the PEA, SRK assumed that we would pay to the State of Alaska an annual fee of $15 million for 20 years beginning in the sixth year of mine operations.
Arctic Project - Property Description and Location
The Arctic Project is located in the Ambler mining district (Figure 1), in the southern Brooks Range of Northwest Alaska at geographic coordinates N67.17º latitude and W156.38º longitude. Work is performed at the site using Universal Transverse Mercator (“UTM”) North American Datum (“NAD”) 1927 Zone 4. The center of the Ambler lands area is 263km east of the town of Kotzebue, 29km north of the village of Kobuk, 260km west of the Dalton Highway and 480km northwest of Fairbanks. The current size of the Ambler lands are approximately 65km long x 8km wide and comprises a total of 45,348 ha.
Figure 1: Regional Location Map
The Ambler lands comprise 45,708 ha (112,946 acres) of State of Alaska mining claims and Federal patented mining claims in the Kotzebue Recording District. The Ambler land tenure consists of 1,356 contiguous State of Alaska claims, including 875 40-acre State claims, 481 160-acre State claims, and two US Mineral Surveys comprising 272 acres of Federal patented land. Rent for each Alaska State claim is paid annually to the Alaska Department of Natural Resources. The Federal patented claim corners at the Ambler lands were located by U.S. Government Surveys (“USGS”). There are no annual fees or other holding costs for the Federal patented mining claims. The Arctic deposit is located near the southern edge of the center of the claim block. Mineralization is interpreted to extend west and east and potentially north of the Arctic deposit and is covered by our claims in these directions.
In 1971, the United States Congress passed the ANCSA which settled land and financial claims made by the Alaska Natives and provided for the establishment of 13 regional corporations to administer those claims. These are known as the Alaska Native Regional Corporations. One of these 13 regional corporations is NANA. Lands controlled by NANA bound a portion of the southern border of the claim block. In addition, the northern property border is within 25km of national park lands.
Figure 2: Prospect Location Map
To date, the Ambler mining district has been the subject of various early stage exploration programs. However, there has been no actual mine development or production within the Arctic Project area boundaries, and therefore no known mine workings or mill tailings are present on the property. In addition, there are no indications of any known environmental impairment or enforcement actions associated with NovaGold’s and our activities on the Arctic Project to date. Prior to approximately 1987, Bear Creek Mining Company (“BCMC”) was the exploration subsidiary of Kennecott.
Various permits are required during the exploration phase of the Arctic Project. The permit for exploration on the property, the State of Alaska Annual Hardrock Exploration Permit, is initially obtained and thereafter renewed annually through the Alaska Department of Natural Resources - State Division of Mining, Land and Water (“Alaska DNR”). We hold a current exploration permit in good standing with the Alaska DNR, and have (along with NovaGold) done so each year since 2004. In addition, since the property is situated within the Northwest Arctic Borough, a Title 9 permit is required for specified exploration activities.
A number of statutory reports and payments are required to maintain the claims in good standing on annual basis. Additional permits will be necessary to carry out environmental baseline studies, detailed engineering studies and other activities as the Arctic deposit moves closer to development.
The Arctic Project will require multiple permits from regulatory agencies and other entities at the Federal, State and local (Borough) levels. As a result of the remoteness of the Arctic Project and the lack of existing infrastructure, it is likely that a significant permitting effort will also be a part of the development of support infrastructure. Due to the preliminary stages of the Arctic Project, it is difficult to assess what specific permitting requirements will ultimately apply to the Arctic Project.
Arctic Project - Accessibility, Climate, Local Resources, Infrastructure and Physiography
Accessibility is one of the most significant challenges of developing the Arctic Project. Currently the project has no access infrastructure. Numerous past studies have demonstrated that access infrastructure will be required to make this a viable project.
There is no developed surface access to the Ambler mining district. Primary access is by air using both fixed wing aircraft and helicopters. There are four well maintained, 1,524m-long gravel airstrips capable of accommodating charter aircraft. From the Arctic Project, these airstrips are located 66km west at Ambler, 46km southwest at Shungnak, 36km southwest at Kobuk and 32km southwest at Dahl Creek. Additionally, there is a smaller and lesser-maintained dirt airstrip near the Bornite deposit. From these points of fixed wing access, helicopter use is required to access the Arctic Project site and transport personnel, equipment and supplies. A one-lane dirt track suitable for high-clearance vehicles or construction equipment links the project site to the Dahl Creek Camp. River access to Ambler, Shungnak and Kobuk by barge is occasionally possible via the Kobuk River from Kotzebue Sound via Hotham Inlet. High water during seasonal runoff is necessary for successful navigation of this route since the Kobuk River is commonly shallow and impassible upstream of the village of Ambler. The village of Kobuk is located 36km away and is accessible by fixed wing aircraft.
The climate in the Ambler mining district is typical of a sub-arctic environment. The exploration season for the Arctic Project is from late May until late September. Weather conditions change suddenly during the field season and can be vary significantly from year to year. During this time period average high temperatures range from 4 to 18°C, while average lows range from -2 to 10°C. Record high and low temperatures during these months are 29 and -17°C, respectively. Extended sunlight in late May and early June accelerates melting of the winter snow pack on the property. By late September or early October, poor weather prohibits safe helicopter travel to the property. Heavy rains and snow are also possible in August. The winter is long and cold and the property is typically blanketed by snow and ice. During this time, snow cover allows for increased access to the property by snow machine, track vehicle or by fixed wing aircraft. Winter temperatures are routinely below -28°C and can exceed -51°C. Annual precipitation in the region is roughly 546.1mm with the most rainfall occurring from July through October and the most snowfall occurring from December through April.
The Arctic Project is located along the south side of the Brooks Range, one of the longest mountain ranges in Alaska. The Brooks Range separates the arctic region from the Alaskan interior. The Arctic Project is located on the east side of Subarctic Creek straddling a 970m ridge between Subarctic Creek and the Kogoluktuk River Valley. Subarctic Creek is a tributary of the Shungnak River. The Arctic Project area is marked by steep and rugged terrain with extreme topographic relief. Elevations range from 30m above mean sea level (“amsl”) at Ambler along the Kobuk River to 1,180m amsl on the peak immediately north of the Arctic Project area. The divide between the Shungnak and Kogoluktuk Rivers in the Ambler Lowlands is just 220m amsl. Nearby surface water includes Subarctic Creek, the Shungnak and Kogoluktuk Rivers, the Kobuk River, and numerous small lakes. The Kobuk Valley marks the transition zone between boreal forest and arctic tundra. Spruce, birch and poplar are found in better-drained portions of the valley, with lichen and moss covering the ground. Willow and alder thickets as well as isolated cottonwoods follow drainages, and alpine tundra are found on the higher slopes and ridges. Tussock tundra and low, heath-type vegetation covers most of the flat floor of the valley. Permafrost is a layer of soil at variable depths beneath the surface where the temperature has been below freezing continuously from a few to several thousands of years. Permafrost exists where summer heating fails to penetrate to the base of the layer of frozen ground and occurs in most of the northern third of Alaska as well as in discontinuous or isolated patches in the central portion of the State.
Because of the remote location of the Arctic Project, infrastructure, specifically transport of material and personnel to and from the Arctic Project and power, are the largest cost items. There is no developed surface access to the Arctic Project area and no power infrastructure near the Arctic Project area. SRK examined various methods for accessing the Arctic Project and transporting materials. Of these various methods, the PEA focuses on the use of a new road to the Dalton Highway.
The proposed access road alignment is shown in Figure 3. The length of the proposed road is approximately 340km (211 miles). It extends west from the Dalton Highway along generally level terrain to the village of Kobuk where it would connect with existing roads to Bornite and the proposed mine area. The road alignment is consistent with alignments that the Alaska Department of Transportation (“ADOT”) has previously considered to access the Ambler district as well as all of the western coast of Alaska. ADOT is currently undertaking a major planning study to further define access options, including detailed road alignment and engineering evaluations, for the Ambler district. We assume that the proposed access road would be constructed and operated by the State of Alaska or a partnership created by the State of Alaska. As such, the PEA assumes that the State of Alaska would construct and maintain the road and that we would be required to pay annual fees.
Figure 3: Proposed Ambler Road
The PEA assumes the use of two existing airports versus constructing and maintaining a dedicated airstrip. These are the Dahl Creek airport and the Kobuk airport, both are located southwest of the Arctic Project at 32km and 36km, respectively. Each has a maintained gravel runway suitable for personnel and cargo charter aircraft.
Currently, electrical power in the region is produced by local diesel generators as well as small wind generators in communities where wind power can be economically harnessed. There are no interconnections with other power grids in the State of Alaska. SRK estimates that a mine complex at the Arctic deposit will require 10.2MW capacity for a nominal 4,000t/d operation. This capacity estimate is sufficient to meet the combined demand from the mine and process facilities, the support infrastructure, and the man-camp. The PEA assumes the site will generate all its power needs by using diesel generators.
Water supply for consumptive uses is assumed to be available both from groundwater and surface water and that its quality is acceptable.
The transport of mine concentrates is to occur direct from the Arctic deposit site in bulk form using container boxes hauled on tractor-trailers; therefore the infrastructure requirements set out in the PEA incorporates a container loading facility as well as a truck staging and maintenance facility in a single structure. From here, the over-the-highway trucks will be loaded with filled containers, weighed and then driven to a rail site at Fairbanks using the proposed Ambler road and the existing Dalton Highway. An off-site support facility is planned at the Pump Station 5 intersect which includes a dormitory for rest and a light maintenance facility to handle unforeseen issues with the tractor-trailers. Once in Fairbanks the concentrate-laden containers will be off-loaded from the trucks and loaded onto rail for transport to the nearest shipping port and subsequently to the contracted smelter.
In addition to the previously mentioned truck staging facility, the preliminary mine design for the Arctic deposit in the PEA includes: the full assortment of support facilities including an administration building/offices, dry, laboratory, first aid clinic, lunch room, training room, process plant maintenance shop, warehouse and the mill building; a power station in its own dedicated facility located in close proximity to the fuel depot area; an underground main mine shop; a mill and tailings disposal at the head of Subarctic Creek; and underground waste disposal facilities will be adjacent to the camp. Camp facilities will accommodate at least 200 people at one time, including sleeping quarters, lavatories, a dining facility and recreational facilities are also included in the preliminary design. Additionally, Pump Station 5 facilities include a dormitory to facilitate the personnel located at this off-site location along with the passing truck drivers.
The total personnel requirements are estimated to be 420 workers. These labor requirements are comprised of approximately 250 mineworkers, 110 process staff and 60 infrastructure related workers. This figure includes the off-site personnel at Pump Station 5, but excludes any contract workers such as truck drivers or campsite support labor. Typically, the mine site crews will change on a standard fly-in-fly-out work schedule unless they normally live in the regional villages and towns.
Arctic Project - History
BCMC conducted regional exploration of the Cosmos Hills and the southern Brooks Range while drilling extensively at Bornite. Stream silts sampling in 1963 revealed a 1,400ppm Cu anomaly in Arctic Creek. This anomaly contributed to discoveries of massive sulfide at Arctic and Dead Creeks in 1965. In 1966 and 1967, BCMC drilled eight core holes at Dead Creek, also intercepting massive sulfide. Structural complexities at Dead Creek hindered progress and BCMC focused on the Arctic Creek area. In 1967, eight core holes were drilled at Arctic Creek yielding impressive massive sulfide intercepts over a strike length of 460m. This successful program resulted in the continuation of drilling over the next several seasons at the Arctic Project. BCMC intermittently conducted exploration programs on the Arctic Project from August 1967 to 1998. Over that span, 92 holes were drilled at the Arctic Project, including 14 large diameter metallurgical holes, totaling 17,572m. No drilling or additional exploration on the Arctic Project was conducted between 1998 and 2003.
In addition to drilling on the Arctic Project, BCMC continued their exploration of other prospects in the Ambler district. Competing companies, including Sunshine Mining Company, Anaconda, Noranda, Teck Cominco, Resource Associates of Alaska, Watts, Griffis and McOuat Ltd. (“WGM”), and Houston Oil and Minerals Company, entered into a claim staking war in the Ambler mining district in the early 1970’s. District exploration by Sunshine Mining Company and others resulted in two substantial discoveries, the Sun deposit located 60km east of the Arctic deposit and the Smucker deposit located 40km west of the Arctic deposit. District exploration continued until the early 1980s on the four larger deposits (Arctic, Bornite, Smucker and Sun) as well as many lesser-defined prospects within the district, including Sunshine Creek, CS, Bud, Horse Creek, Cliff, Dead Creek, Kogo, Red, BT and Tom Tom.
In the 1990s, Kennecott Minerals, the successor of BCMC, began to re-evaluate the Arctic deposit. This included a review of the deposit geology and the assembly of a computer database. A new computer-generated block model was constructed and an updated resource was estimated from the block model. The result is outlined in Table 1 Historical Resource Estimate - 1990, below. Although believed by our management to have been relevant and reliable, this historical resource estimate predates the development of NI 43-101 reporting guidelines, was not estimated in compliance with NI 43-101 procedures and should not be relied on.
Arctic Project - Historical Metallurgical Testwork
The first three metallurgical test campaigns performed on the Arctic deposit mineralized material were conducted at the Kennecott Research Center between 1968 and 1976. The focus was on selective flotation to provide separate copper, lead and zinc concentrates for conventional smelting.
The initial amenability testing was carried out in 1968 on individual samples and their composites made from cores from eight diamond drillholes. Core drilled prior to 1998 was drilled using NQ- and BQ-sized strings. An additional four samples were obtained from three holes and tested in 1972. Laboratory scale bench tests included a conventional selective flotation approach to produce three separate (copper, lead and zinc) concentrates. The major problems encountered were:
Difficult copper-lead separation; and
Zinc deportment to the copper and the lead concentrates.
The highest-grade copper concentrate contained over 30% Cu, 2 to 3% Zn and less than 1% Pb, but at a low copper recovery of less than 80%. The lead concentrate was low-grade 17 to 36% Pb and assayed 5 to 25% Cu. The subsequent sphalerite flotation was generally efficient. The zinc concentrate grade was 55% and the zinc recovery up to 70%, depending on how much zinc floated in the preceding copper and lead flotation. Silver generally followed galena.
During 1975, large diameter cores from 14 drillholes were used for more detailed testing to develop the concentrator flowsheet and process parameters. Two composites were prepared: No.1 (Eastern zone) and No.2 (Western zone). Most of the test work was conducted on the composite No.1, which represented 75% of the resources. The test program included mineralogical examinations, bench scale testing of various process parameters for each selective flotation step and locked cycle tests. Complete analyses were done on a number of concentrates to identify potential impurities. Preliminary tests for bulk flotation of all sulfides were also carried out.
A 1976 conceptual study for the selection of the metallurgical process for the Arctic deposit established that the Kennecott Sulfide Process could be developed as an economic hydro metallurgical alternative to smelting. Bulk concentrate could be amenable for processing with this novel technology.
Historical testing showed that a clear separation of various sulfide minerals is difficult because of fine interlocking of mineral grains. It showed that the economically most important minerals, chalcopyrite and sphalerite, could be recovered into selective copper and zinc concentrates with commercial concentrate grades and good recoveries. Lead and precious metals easily reported to the copper concentrate. The production of a selective high-grade lead concentrate was not successful. Only a low-grade, silver-bearing lead concentrate (17 to 36% Pb) was obtained, containing high amounts of iron, copper and zinc. Generally, the copper concentrate grade and recovery depended on the amounts of lead and zinc prevented from floating during copper flotation and cleaning. Production of two selective copper and zinc concentrates could be confidently projected, although additional testing would be required to optimize the flow sheet and all process parameters.
Silver was mainly associated with galena. The highest silver recovery to copper concentrate was achieved when lead was recovered as well. If galena was rejected from the copper concentrate, 20 to 40% of the silver, associated with tetrahedrite and tennantite, remained in the copper concentrate.
Gold assaying was very sporadic during the three test campaigns and was not provided. It was noted, however, that at least 70% of the gold reported to the copper concentrate, although not enough testing was performed to predict gold recovery.
Arctic Project - Historical Drilling
Between 1967 to July 1985, 86 holes were drilled (including 14 large diameter metallurgical test holes) totaling 16,080m. In 1998, Kennecott drilled six core holes totaling 1,492m in the Arctic deposit to test for extensions of the known resource, and to test for grade and thickness continuity. Drilling for all BCMC/Kennecott campaigns in the Arctic deposit area (1966-1998) totals 92 core holes for a combined 17,572m.
No drilling was performed on the project between 1998 and 2003. NovaGold took control of the project in 2004. The 2004-2006 and 2008 drill programs conducted by NovaGold are described under the heading “Arctic Project - Drilling”.
Arctic Project - Historical Geophysics
In 1998, an airborne geophysical survey of the entire claim block generated numerous electromagnetic anomalies. Additional geophysical surveys have been performed by NovaGold and are discussed under the heading “Arctic Project - Exploration”.
Arctic Project - Historical Resource Estimates
A resource estimate was performed on the Arctic deposit by Kennecott based on 70 holes. This resource estimate was performed in 1990 and is summarized in Table 1. This estimate is considered to be that of an inferred resource. Although believed by our management to be relevant and reliable, this historical resource estimate predates the development of NI 43-101 reporting guidelines, was not estimated in compliance with NI 43-101 procedures and should not be relied on. See “Cautionary Note to United States Investors.”
Table 1: Historical Resource Estimate - 1990
Classification
Tonnes (kt)
Cu%
Zn%
Pb%
Ag g/t
Au s/t
Inferred
36,300
4.0
5.5
0.8
54.9
0.7
Arctic Project - Geologic Setting
Regional Geology
The Ambler district occurs within an east-west trending zone of Devonian to Jurassic age submarine volcanic and sedimentary rocks. VMS deposits and prospects are hosted in the Middle Devonian to Early Mississippian age Ambler Sequence, a group of metamorphosed bimodal volcanic rocks with interbedded tuffaceous, graphitic and calcareous volcanoclastic metasediments. The Ambler Sequence occurs in the upper part of the Anirak Schist, the thickest member of the Coldfoot subterrane. VMS mineralization can be found along the entire 110km strike length of the district. Hitzman notes that the 1,980m-thick Devonian age section of the Cosmos Hills, which includes the 915m-thick Bornite Carbonate Sequence, is equivalent in age to the Anirak Schist and was mineralized during the Ambler mineralizing event.
The Ambler district is characterized by a series of east-west trending belts of rocks of increasing metamorphic grade northward across the strike of the units. The structure of the district is isoclinally folded in the northern area and thrust faulted in the southern half. The Devonian to Mississippian age Angayucham basalt and the Triassic to Jurassic age mafic volcanic rocks are in low-angle thrust contact with various units of the Coldfoot subterrane along the northern edge of the Ambler Lowlands.
District/Property Geology
Rocks that form the Ambler schist belt consist of a lithologically diverse sequence of lower Paleozoic possibly Devonian age carbonate and siliciclastic strata with interlayered mafic lava flows and sills. The clastic strata, derived from terrigenous continental and volcanic sources, were deposited primarily by mass-gravity flow into the sub-wavebase environment of an extending marginal basin.
Our work shows that the Ambler sequence underwent two periods of intense, penetrative deformation. Sustained upper greenschist-facies metamorphism with coincident formation of a penetrative schistosity and isoclinal transposition of bedding marks the first deformation period. Pervasive similar-style folds on all scales deform the transposed bedding and schistosity, defining the subsequent event. At least two later non-penetrative compressional events deform these earlier fabrics. Our observations of the structural and metamorphic history of the Ambler district are consistent with current tectonic evolution models for the schist belt, based on the work of others elsewhere in southern Brooks Range.
The local base of the Ambler section consists of variably metamorphosed carbonates historically referred to as the Gnurgle Gneiss. We interpret these strata as calc-turbidites, perhaps deposited in a sub-wavebase environment adjacent to a carbonate bank. Calcareous schists overlie the Gnurgle Gneiss and host sporadically distributed mafic sills and pillowed lavas. These fine-grained clastic strata indicate a progressively quieter depositional environment up section, and the presence of pillowed lavas indicates a rifting, basinal environment. The overlying Arctic-sulfide host section consists mostly of fine-grained carbonaceous siliciclastics and indicates further isolation from a terrigenous source terrain. The section above the Arctic host contains voluminous reworked silicic volcanic strata with the Button Schist at its base. The paucity of volcanically derived strata below the Arctic host section and abundance above indicates that the basin and surrounding hinterlands underwent major tectonic reorganization during deposition of the Arctic section. Greywacke sands that we interpret as channeled high-energy turbidites occur throughout the section but concentrate high in the local stratigraphy.
Three mineralized horizons comprise the Arctic deposit: the Main Sulfide Horizon, the Upper South Horizon and the Warm Springs Horizon. The Main Sulfide Horizon is further subdivided into three zones: the southeast zone, the central zone and the northwest zone. Previous deposit modeling was grade-based resulting in numerous individual mineralized zones representing relatively thin sulfide horizons.
Work from the 2004 campaign suggests that mineralization at the Arctic deposit can be explained using two locally folded and refolded mineralized horizons. The primary exception is in the area of Warm Springs and east of Warm Springs where mineralization occurs stratigraphically higher than anticipated using this model. Thrust faulting may have an effect on massive sulfide horizon geometry in this area.
Five lithologic groups and/or types found within the Arctic Project area include:
Metarhyolite: Includes the Button Schist, which is described as a porphyroblastic quartz feldspar porphyry. It also includes a variety of less porphyroblastic felsic schists considered as metamorphosed rhyolitic volcaniclastic and tuffaceous rocks. Members of this group occur both stratigraphically above and below the main mineralized sequence at the Arctic deposit. These units have been interpreted as separate metavolcanics, though similarities occur between the basal Button Schist and the uppermost units;
Quartz Mica Schist: Locally contains varying proportions of carbonate, chlorite, graphite and feldspar. Protolith for these rocks may have been tuffaceous sediments, volcaniclastics and dirty carbonates;
Talc Schist: Highly talc chlorite altered products of metavolcanic or graphitic schist units with talc in excess of 30%. Original texture often destroyed by alteration;
Graphitic Schist: Dark grey to black, fissile, well-foliated quartz-banded schist found throughout the deposit; and
Base-Metal, Sulfide-Bearing Schist: This is the mineralized lithology at the Arctic deposit. These contain highly-altered schists containing varying amounts of talc, chlorite, barite, quartz, muscovite, carbonate and massive, relatively non- schistose zones.
Studies in 2004 suggest the base-metal, sulfide-bearing schist is more a product of alteration than primary lithology and, as a result, should be included in the quartz mica schist group.
The three main zones of hydrothermal alteration occurring at the Arctic Project have been defined as:
A main chloritic zone occurring within the footwall of the deposit consisting of phengite and magnesium-chlorite;
A mixed alteration zone occurring below and lateral to sulfide mineralization consisting of phengite and phlogopite along with talc, calcite, dolomite and quartz; and
A pyritic zone overlying the sulfide mineralization.
Talc has been recognized as a significant component of the mineralized assemblage at the Arctic deposit. Distribution is poorly understood at present though logging observations would suggest that the core of the antiform opening to the east or the footwall of the mineralized horizon has increased quantities. Along the mineralized horizon itself the upper limb of the antiform to the east appears to have the greatest quantity of talc and might in part be a guide to the fluid feeder of the system. Quantitative determinations of talc based on visual logging are extremely difficult due to the light green foliated texture of the talc which is difficult to discern from chlorite and muscovite species. Logging estimates are often based more on tactile characteristics of the core than visual characteristics.
Based on this discussion, talc has been very conservatively estimated at 20% throughout the deposit. With some detailed work further defining mineral assemblages specifically solid solution relationships in chlorites and carbonates, CO2 analyses to define total amounts of Mg bearing carbonates and added ICP analyses throughout the deposit to further define the overall distribution of Mg, a strongly quantitative estimate of talc can be made in the future. An added point to grasp from the ICP analysis of talc is that high-grade copper intervals contain less talc than low grade intervals.
Arctic Project - Deposit Type
The mineralization at the Arctic Project and within the Ambler district consists of Devonian age, polymetallic (Zn-Cu-Pb-Ag) VMS occurrences. VMS deposits are formed by and associated with sub-marine volcanic-related hydrothermal events. These events are related to spreading centers such as fore arc, back arc or mid-ocean ridges. VMS deposits are often stratiform accumulations of sulfide minerals that precipitate from hydrothermal fluids on or below the seafloor. These deposits are found in association with volcanic, volcaniclastic and/or siliciclastic rocks. They are classified by their depositional environment and associated proportions of mafic and/or felsic igneous rocks to sedimentary rocks. There are five general classifications based on rock type and depositional environment:
Mafic rock dominated often with ophiolite sequences, often called Cyprus type;
Bimodal-mafic type with up to 25% felsic volcanic rocks;
Mafic-siliciclastic type with approximately equal parts mafic and siliclastic rocks, which can have minor felsic rocks and are often called Beshi type;
Felsic-siliclastic type with abundant felsic rocks, less than 10% mafic rocks and shale rich; and
Bimodal-felsic type where felsic rocks are more abundant than mafic rocks with minor sedimentary rocks, also termed Kuroko type.
Prior to any subsequent deformation and/or metamorphism, these deposits are often bowl- or mound-shaped with stockworks and stringers of sulfide minerals found near vent zones. These types of deposit exhibit an idealized zoning pattern as follows:
Pyrite and chalcopyrite near vents;
A halo around the vents consisting of chalcopyrite, sphalerite and pyrite;
A more distal zone of sphalerite and galena and metals such as manganese; and
Increasing manganese with oxides such as hematite and chert.
Alteration halos associated with VMS deposits often contain sericite, ankerite, chlorite, hematite and magnetite close to the VMS with weak sericite, carbonate, zeolite, prehnite and chert more distal. These alteration assemblages and relationships are dependent on degree of post deposition deformation and metamorphism. A modern analog of this type of deposit is found around fumeroles or black smokers in association with rift zones.
At the Arctic deposit, sulfides occur as semi-massive (10 to 30% sulfide) to massive (>30% sulfide) layers, typically dominated by pyrite with substantial disseminated sphalerite and chalcopyrite and trace amounts of galena
Arctic Project - Exploration
Exploration on the Arctic Project was intermittent between discovery in 1965 and 1998. From 1998 until 2003, there was no work performed on the Arctic Project. NovaGold entered into negotiations with Kennecott to explore the Arctic Project in mid-2003. Negotiations were completed and an exploration agreement signed on March 23, 2004. Beginning in 2004, NovaGold performed project level and regional mapping, drilling, geophysics and geochemical surveys. NovaGold purchased Kennecott’s ownership in January, 2010 and continues exploration activities at the Arctic Project.
The 2004 drilling focused on the Arctic deposit area and was principally designed to verify the grade and continuity of the mineralized intercepts encountered in the previous drill campaigns. Eleven holes totaling 2,996m were drilled in potential extensions of mineralization and on an adjacent geophysical anomaly. During 2005, approximately 3,030m of core drilling was completed, and in the 2006 field season an additional 3,010m of drilling in 12 drill holes was completed. The 2006 program focused on regional extensions and included drilling at the Dead Creek, Sunshine Creek, COU and Red prospects. NovaGold completed a 14 hole drill program totaling 3,306m in 2008. All holes were designed to infill within the then defined resource area, and three holes were drilled for metallurgical testing purposes. None of the assay results were available at the time of construction of the original 2008 resource model.
Local and regional mapping performed during the 2005-2006 mapping program enabled Paul Lindberg to complete a model of an unfolded view of the Arctic deposit geology. These results provide a good platform on which to build subsequent models of original zoning patterns, changing thicknesses and other laterally variable characteristics of the deposit.
A total of 2,106 stream silt and soil samples were collected during the 2004 mapping program as part of an effort to develop a regional geochemistry model for future district exploration. This program was carried out by NovaGold personnel and the model is still being developed.
During 2005, two Time Domain Electro-Magnetic (“TDEM”) induction ground surveys were performed at the Arctic deposit and COU. COU is within the claim block and is a significant anomaly of similar size and tenor a few kilometers to the northwest of the town of Ambler. The 2006 exploration program focused on a regional basis to extend existing mineralization and to identify new mineralized targets within the claim block, and included 13 TDEM surveys performed to enhance previous work performed by Kennecott in 1998. Data evaluation is ongoing.
Oriented data were collected from select angle drill holes. The clay impression method was used to orient the core with data capture done using a circular protractor for beta values and a standard protractor for alpha values. The majority of oriented measurements were of foliation with a NW strike and a SW dip, similar to those observed on the surface.
Exploration activities at the Arctic Project have been performed within industry standards using appropriate models and techniques for a VMS target. SRK agrees with the techniques used at this project.
Arctic Project - Mineralization
Mineralization at the Arctic deposit occurs as stratiform semi-massive to massive sulfide beds. The sulfide beds average 4m thick but vary from less than 1m up to 18m thick. The bulk of the mineralization is within four zones located between two thrust faults, the upper Warm Springs Thrust and the Lower Thrust. A smaller fifth zone is located below the Lower Thrust. All of these zones are within an area of roughly 1km, with average zone length ranging from 850m to 600m and width ranging from 700m to 350m. Mineralization has been defined to a depth of approximately 250m below the surface and is open in several areas. Host rocks are primarily graphitic chlorite schists and fine-grained quartz sandstones.
Marginal to the Arctic deposit, mineralization is locally present as discontinuous thin, “wispy” sulfide bands. No stockworks or stringers in association with the mineralization have been observed. These features are common in near-vent VMS deposits. Much of the core from the 2004 and 2005 programs within the deposit exhibits characteristics and textures common to replacement-style mineralization.
Mineralization is predominately coarse-grained sulfides consisting mainly of chalcopyrite, sphalerite, galena, pyrite and pyrrhotite, and may or may not include tetrahedrite. Tetrahedrite-tennantite, electrum and enargite are also present in minor amounts. Pyrite is commonly associated with the massive sulfide horizons, and pyrrhotite and arsenopyrite are present in lesser amounts. Gangue minerals associated with the mineralized horizons include quartz, barite, white mica, black chlorite, calcite, dolomite and cymrite, while talc is common in the footwall.
Arctic Project - Drilling
Between 1967 to July 1985, 86 holes were drilled (including 14 large diameter metallurgical test holes) totaling 16,080m. In 1998, Kennecott drilled six core holes totaling 1,492m in the Arctic deposit to test for extensions of the known resource, and to test for grade and thickness continuity. Drilling for all BCMC/Kennecott campaigns in the Arctic deposit area (1966-1998) totals 92 core holes for a combined 17,572m.
Arctic Project - Drill Program and Objectives
The 2004 drilling focused on the Arctic deposit area and was principally designed to verify the grade and continuity of the mineralized intercepts encountered in the previous drill campaigns. Alternate geologic models for the Arctic deposit were investigated through surface mapping, drill core re-logging and re-interpretation of previous drill results. Eleven holes totaling 2,996m were drilled. Significant mineralized intervals were encountered in eight of the eleven holes drilled in the program. The twin and infill drilling confirmed previously drilled intervals of base-metal mineralization.
Drilling in 2005 again focused on extending and confirming mineralization, particularly in the lower limb of the Arctic Antiform. Approximately 3,030m of core drilling was completed and, although good mineralization was encountered in several holes, structural discontinuities appear to limit expansion of mineralization to the south and east. Results suggest that the model remains open to the northeast and that the faulted off-root zone has yet to be identified. Drill spacing for all programs is dependent on the steep, rugged terrain for locating drill rigs; however, it varies from 90 to 120m. Sections have been drawn at 61m intervals.
During the 2006 field season, an additional 3,010m of drilling in 12 drill holes was completed. This drill program was focused on a more regional basis to extend existing mineralization and to identify new mineralized targets within the Ambler lands. These holes were drilled at the Dead Creek, Sunshine Creek, COU and Red prospects.
NovaGold completed a 14 hole drill program totaling 3,306m in 2008. All holes were designed to infill within the Arctic deposit, and three holes were drilled for metallurgical testing purposes.
All NovaGold drill core was logged, photographed and sawn, with half sent to the lab for analyses and half stored near the property. Core logging was done using metric measurements. Lithology and visual alteration features were captured on observed interval breaks. Mineralization data, including total sulfide (recorded as percent), sulfide type (recorded as a relative amount), gangue and vein mineralogy were collected for each sample interval with an average interval of approximately 2m. Structure data were collected as point data. Geotechnical data (core recovery, RQD) were collected along drill run intervals. Using the 2004 logging procedure as a guide, data from the earlier campaigns were taken from those drill logs and entered into the database, with a focus on mineralization information.
The overall objectives of the three drill programs were:
Verification of mineralized intercepts from previous drill campaigns (twin holes);
Continuity of higher grade intercepts in the central part of the resource area (infill holes);
Exploring possible extensions of mineralized zones; and
Recording data electronically and building a 3-D model of the Arctic deposit.
Arctic Project - Drill Results
Significant mineralized intervals were encountered in eight of the 11 holes drilled in 2004. Twin and infill drilling confirmed previously drilled intervals of high-grade base-metal mineralization. The results of the 2004 drilling program show a high degree of variability in thickness and grade within areas of the deposit.
Drill holes designed to test extension of the Arctic deposit failed to extend significant mineralization. Some holes encountered locally anomalous or lower grade material, possibly representing distal mineralization. An abrupt decrease in grade occurred in AR04-81 below a fault zone, suggesting that the mineralized zones may be offset or folded south of the known deposit. AR04-87 was abandoned due to an inability to penetrate a major fault zone, and was subsequently re-drilled as AR04-88. This hole ended at 387.6m in altered quartz muscovite schist, short of the targeted Button Schist.
The 2006 drilling program completed 3,010m in 12 holes. This program was performed to test mineralization extensions and geophysical anomalies outside the immediate Arctic deposit area, but within the claim block. These holes were drilled at the Dead Creek, Sunshine Creek, COU and Red prospects.
NovaGold completed a 14 hole drill program totaling 3,306m in 2008. All holes were designed to infill within the currently defined resource area, and three holes were drilled for metallurgical testing purposes.
At Dead Creek, the holes were located based on a combination of geophysics and geology. Each hole penetrated the targeted stratigraphy, and showed that the sulfide system diminishes to the north and east but remains open to the south and west. One of the Back-Door Creek holes penetrated an 8m zone that contained several 2 to 7cm-thick pyrrhotite bands, but with only a trace of chalcopyrite. This zone correlates stratigraphically with a mineralized interval in a nearby historical hole, suggesting metallic mineral zonation from pyrite and base-metal sulfide to pyrrhotite.
Drilling in the Sunshine Creek area tested the western extent of mineralization observed in historical drill holes, which is interpreted to be two sulfide-bearing horizons that lie sub-parallel to the stratigraphy, above a carbonate package. We interpret the two mineralized horizons as limbs of an anticline. Drill intercepts from 2006 that correlate with these two horizons had significantly lower grade and were thinner than historical intercepts. Preliminary results indicate that the sulfide horizon becomes dominated by pyrrhotite to the west. We currently interpret this compositional change to represent a more distal portion of the mineralized system.
Drilling at COU was performed to investigate an electromagnetic anomaly and consisted of one hole. The source of this anomaly was a thick sequence of graphitic black schist that contained abundant continuous pyrrhotite bands. Downhole a few hundred meters it was recognized that the hole was still in the hanging wall to the stratigraphic package that hosts the Arctic Project. This resulted in extending the hole. The hole was stopped slightly above its target because of safety considerations. This hole has proven vital to our understanding of the regional folds and to the stratigraphic stacking order in this area.
NovaGold drilled four holes into the Red prospect, located in the lowlands of the Kogoluktuk Valley, about 5km east of the Arctic Project. These holes tested an electromagnetic anomaly and intersected a sulfide vein system hosted by siltstone believed to underlie the Gnurgle Gneiss. The veins have a quartz-calcite-fluorite gangue, and their margins commonly contain concentrations of secondary brown biotite, suggesting an affinity to relatively high-temperature potassic alteration. The structural fabric deforms the veins, suggesting that they are relatively old. The vein style of mineralization makes this occurrence unique in the district.
An ongoing effort to gather and compile data for a new resource model for the Arctic deposit includes re-logging of historical drill core, detailed logging of individual mineralized intersections at 1:50 scale and work with hole-to-hole correlations.
Multiple drillhole intersections have resulted in a reasonably accurate knowledge of the orientation of the mineralization. Mineralization follows enclosing stratigraphic layering and is further defined, except where tightly folded, by bedding parallel to bedding subparallel foliation.
Most holes intersect the mineral zone nearly perpendicular to foliation and to the mineralization, so the intersections represent near true thickness. Exceptions are where mineralized zones wrap around tight fold hinges, but these instances are rare.
Arctic Project - Sampling Method and Approach
The sampling protocol for all the NovaGold drill programs at the Arctic deposit from 2004-2008 was the same. Core logging geologists mark the sample intervals, which range from 1 to 3m in length. Varying rock types, lithologic contacts and mineralized zones influence sample interval selection. Sample boundaries are placed at lithologic contacts. Each hole was sampled in its entirety, even in areas that encountered significant intervals of unmineralized core. Sample intervals of 2 to 3m are most common in weakly to unmineralized core, and sample intervals of 1 to 2m are more common in mineralized zones or areas of varying lithology. Sample intervals used are well within the width of the average mineralized zone in the resource area. This sampling approach is considered sound and appropriate for this style of mineralization and alteration. Core recovery was good to excellent, resulting in quality samples with little to no bias. There are no known drilling and/or recovery factors that could materially impact accuracy.
Sampling of drill core prior to 2004 by Kennecott and BCMC focused primarily on the mineralized zones. During the 1998 campaign, Kennecott did sample some broad zones of alteration and weak mineralization, but much of the unaltered and unmineralized rock remains unsampled. ALS Chemex was also used for analyses conducted by Kennecott.
Earlier BCMC sampling was even more restricted to mineralized zones of core. Intervals of visible sulfide mineralization were selected for sampling and analyses were conducted by Union Assay Office Inc. of Salt Lake City, Utah. Numerous intervals of weak to moderate mineralization remain unsampled in the historic drill care. NovaGold conducted some limited sampling of this historical drill core to gain a better understanding of trace element distribution around the Arctic deposit. During the relogging of much of this historical core, 1m intervals were selected over each 10m of unmineralized core. These 1m intervals were sawn in half, with one-half returned to the box and the other half placed in a bag, labeled and sent to the laboratory for analysis. This type of sampling was used to determine trace element distribution about the deposit; none of the mineralized zones were sampled in this way.
With the lack of outcrop in a folded metamorphic terrane, it is necessary to have a good understanding of the geologic model to predict positioning of the drill to get a sample of true thickness in the mineralized zone. NovaGold diligently relogged core and mapped the project, and we have been diligently relogging core and mapping the project to gain this understanding. The use of oriented core is very important to this interpretation. SRK has confidence that the samples collected at the Arctic Project are representative of the geometry of the mineralized zone.
Arctic Project - Sample Preparation, Analyses and Security
The core from the NovaGold programs was sawn in half, with half sent to labs in Fairbanks, AK for sample preparation and the other half returned to the core box for storage. Samples were crushed to 70% <2mm and a nominal 250g split was sent to Vancouver, B.C. for analysis by ALS Chemex. There the splits were pulverized to 85% <75um. Initial gold analysis was done by FA-AAA on a nominal 30g split of the pulp. Samples returning over limit gold values (>10ppm) were rerun using fire assay techniques. Initial results for all other elements (27) were done via four acid digestion ICP analysis on a nominal 25g split of the pulp. Samples with over limit values for copper (>10,000ppm), lead (>10,000ppm), zinc (>10,000ppm) or silver (>100ppm) were rerun using AA techniques.
Gold values for duplicate samples (both blind and laboratory) from 2004 and for those samples re-assayed from earlier programs locally showed high variability, indicating a possible nugget effect. As a result, a series of samples was selected for MSA analysis. Results are pending.
A QA/QC program was instituted for the 2004 drill program and utilized for subsequent programs. Samples were broken into 20 sample batches that included three QA/QC samples. The QA/QC samples included one duplicate, one blank and one standard. Duplicate samples were prepared at the prep facility by taking a second split from the entire prepped sample. A local limestone source was used as the blank material. A series of samples taken from the source area and assayed confirm that the limestone is a suitable blank material. The standard material was obtained from WCM Minerals of Burnaby, B.C. A base-metal standard was selected that best represented the grade of the Arctic deposit mineralization. Samples were either in the custody of NovaGold personnel or the assay labs at all times.
A search was made through Kennecott’s Reno, NV warehouse for sample pulps from pre-1998 drill campaigns. A total of 290 pulps were located, mainly from the earliest drill programs, and sent to ALS Chemex Labs in Vancouver, B.C. for analysis. The samples were analyzed for gold by FA-AAA as well as 27 additional elements by ICP analysis (see analytical description). Samples were arranged in batches of approximately 20, each with inserted QA/QC samples. Of the 290 total pulps, 11 contained insufficient volume for any analysis. The variable number of sample pairs is the result of either insufficient sample size for analysis of select elements in 2004 (mainly over limits) or because some elements were not selected for assay in earlier campaigns. Zinc, silver and gold analyses all compared favorably. While lead showed the largest variability, the average grades are relatively low, thereby having little effect on the tonnage value. Copper values also had high variability and averaged 10% lower than the original values. ALS Chemex has attained ISO 9001:2000 registration. In addition, the ALS Chemex Vancouver laboratory is accredited to ISO 17025 by Standards Council of Canada for a number of specific test procedures including fire assay Au by AA, ICP and gravimetric finish, multi-element ICP and AA Assays for Ag, Cu, Pb and Zn.
The apparently poor reproducibility of historic assay values is likely a sign of a highly variable deposit, and not an assaying issue. While sample assays are suitable for this PEA, further analysis and comparisons are recommended for prefeasibility.
The QA/QC data appears to be reasonable for a program of this scope, a few discrepancies exist which are normal. A formal assessment should also be done before prefeasibility, and any significant problems addressed by re-assaying samples which had issues.
Arctic Project - Data Verification
NovaGold performed a review of existing Ambler land data at the Kennecott offices in Salt Lake City, Utah with a focus on data relating to the Arctic Project. Numerous reports and studies were scanned. All available assay certificates as well as the current database were copied and/or scanned. All pre-2004 drill assay values in the database provided by Kennecott were compared to assay values from the original assay certificates. Local discrepancies, mainly associated with precious metal results, were identified and corrected.
SRK was supplied with paper and scanned electronic certificates for the pre-2004 programs. Assay certificates for 472 samples out of 1,854 of these samples were unavailable for review. SRK checked 10% of pre-2004 assay certificates against the database. Only minor typographical discrepancies were found and corrected. All of the highest 5% grades of all five elements were checked where available. SRK also received electronic certificates (CSV text files) for 2,612 assays (88% of the Arctic samples) from the 2004-2005 drilling/sampling program, which also included numerous samples selected from previously drilled core. All of these assays were verified successfully with the provided database. QA/QC data was also made available for the 2005 sampling program, consisting of 166 duplicate samples, 282 standards and 293 blanks. These samples were well within acceptable limits. Although a few of the paper certificates were unavailable, the available certificates provided reasonable assurance that the database is accurate.
Arctic Project - Mineral Resource Estimate
The mineral resource estimate was prepared by Russ White, P.Geo, Associate Resource Geologist at SRK Denver. Grade estimations were made using ordinary kriging based on a three-dimensional block model constructed using Vulcan® commercial mine planning software. The project limits are based on a UTM coordinate system (NAD 1927, Zone 24), and the block model is based on a parent block size of 5m X x 5m Y x 5m Z, with a sub-cell size of 5m X x 5m Y x 0.2m Z. Five mineralized massive sulfide zones have been defined along a northeasterly striking corridor, with all zones tending to dip moderately to the southwest. The mineralization at the Arctic deposit occurs as massive sulfide lenses hosted within weakly to unmineralized schistose country rocks. Potentially economic mineralization is associated with coarse-grained sulfides. For the resource estimation work, all of the massive sulfide zones are collectively referred to as the Arctic deposit.
The resource estimate has been generated from composites derived from drill hole sample assay results, and is constrained by manually interpreted sulfide bed boundaries constructed by SRK. No three dimensional geologic model was utilized to constrain the resource estimate. Grade interpolation parameters have been defined based largely on the geologic understanding of controls on mineralization, drillhole spacing and geostatistical analysis of the data. The resources have been classified by their proximity to the sample locations and number of drill holes used to inform the blocks. SRK finds the resource model and resource classification to be acceptable for resource reporting under CIM guidelines.
The drillhole database used for resource estimation consists of 131 core holes, 108 of which intercepted significant mineralization. Of the approximately 28,310m drilled within the resource, 6,220 intervals were sampled representing 12,434m of sampled drilling. Sample lengths vary from 0.1 to 12m, and average about 1.9m. Each interval contains assays for copper, zinc, lead, gold and silver, as well as codes for lithology and mineralized zone. In 2008, NovaGold completed an additional 14 hole drill program of which 12 are incorporated (2 holes remain unassayed).
A separate database table includes specific gravity measurements for 404 samples taken from 47 drillholes.
The Arctic Project has no known reserves.
Arctic Project - Resource Classification and Mineral Resource Statement
The mineral resources have been classified according to the “CIM Standards on Mineral Resources and Reserves: Definitions and Guidelines” (November 2005). The PEA is preliminary in nature and includes inferred mineral resources that are considered too speculative geologically to have the economic considerations applied to them that would enable them to be categorized as mineral reserves. There is no certainty that the estimates contained in the PEA will ever be realized. Mineral resources that are not mineral reserves do not have demonstrated economic viability.
Resources in the MS zones, which were estimated by the first (50m) search, were classified as indicated. This is roughly based on a distance that is twice the variogram range and within one cross section distance inside a modeled shape, which is based on correlated intervals. All blocks outside of the MS zones, and all other estimated blocks too distant from the samples for the first pass, were classified as inferred. No resources were classified as measured. Inferred resources have a great amount of uncertainty as to their existence and as to whether they can be mined legally or economically. It cannot be assumed that all or any part of inferred resources will ever be upgraded to a higher category.
Table 2: Mineral Resource Statement - Indicated (as of May 9, 2011)
Cautionary Note to United States Investors concerning estimates of Indicated Resources. This section uses the term “indicated resources”. We advise United States investors that this term is not recognized by the SEC. United States investors are cautioned not to assume that estimates of indicated mineral resources are economically minable, or will be upgraded into measured mineral resources. See “Risk Factors” and “Cautionary Note to United States Investors.”
Notes:
(1)
Mineral Resources are not Mineral Reserves and do not have demonstrated economic viability. There is no certainty that all or any part of the Mineral Resources will be converted into Mineral Reserves. See “Risk Factors” and “Cautionary Note to United States Investors”.
(2)
Resources stated as contained within potentially economically minable underground shapes above a $75.00/t NSR cut-off.
(3)
NSR calculation is based on assumed metal prices of $2.50/lb for copper, $1,000/oz for gold, $16.00/oz for silver, $1.00/lb for zinc, $1.00/lb for lead. A mining cost of $45.00/t and combined processing and G&A costs of $31.00 were assumed to form the basis for the resource NSR cut-off determination.
Note: these metal prices and operating costs differ from those used for the cash flow model.
(4)
Mineral resource tonnage and contained metal have been rounded to reflect the accuracy of the estimate, and numbers may not sum due to rounding.
(5)
The above table refers to “indicated resources” which have been determined in accordance with Canadian securities regulations (under NI 43-101), which differ from the SEC’s standards for resource classification. See “Risk Factors” and “Cautionary Note to United States Investors”.
(6)
The information contained in the above table has been prepared by, or under the supervision of, Russ White of SRK Consulting (US) Inc., a Qualified Person.
Table 3: Mineral Resource Statement - Inferred (as of May 9, 2011)
Cautionary Note to United States Investors concerning estimates of Inferred Resources. This section uses the term “inferred resources”. We advise United States investors that this term is not recognized by the SEC. The estimation of inferred resources involves far greater uncertainty as to their existence and economic viability than the estimation of other categories of resources. United States investors are cautioned not to assume that estimates of inferred mineral resources exist, are economically minable, or will be upgraded into measured or indicated mineral resources. See “Risk Factors” and “Cautionary Note to United States Investors”.
Notes:
(1) Mineral Resources are not Mineral Reserves and do not have demonstrated economic viability. There is no certainty that all or any part of the Mineral Resources will be converted into Mineral Reserves. See “Risk Factors” and “Cautionary Note to United States Investors”.
(2) Resources stated as contained within potentially economically minable underground shapes above a $75.00/t NSR cut-off.
(3) NSR calculation is based on assumed metal prices of $2.50/lb for copper, $1,000/oz for gold, $16.00/oz for silver, $1.00/lb for zinc, $1.00/lb for lead. A mining cost of $45.00/t and combined processing and G&A costs of $31.00 were assumed to form the basis for the resource NSR cut-off determination.
Note: these metal prices and operating costs differ from those used for the cash flow model.
(4) Mineral resource tonnage and contained metal have been rounded to reflect the accuracy of the estimate, and numbers may not sum due to rounding.
(5) The above table refers to “inferred resources” which have been determined in accordance with Canadian securities regulations (under NI 43-101), which differ from the SEC’s standards for resource classification. See “Risk Factors” and “Cautionary Note to United States Investors”.
(6) The information contained in the above table has been prepared by, or under the supervision of, Russ White of SRK Consulting (US) Inc., a Qualified Person.
Arctic Project - Environmental Considerations
Development of the Arctic Project will be subject to extensive environmental baseline analyses, environmental impact assessment and evaluation, and associated permitting requirements reflective of the direct, indirect and cumulative impacts associated with full project build-out, and the sensitive environment in which it is to be constructed. Development of the Arctic Project will include significant infrastructure development including the mine, mill, tailings impoundment and ancillary facilities, including on-site employee housing, as well as off-site infrastructure such as power generation and communications, and surface access. An existing year-round airstrip near the site capable of accommodating charter aircraft for a complete fly-in/fly out year-round operation will be used. The complexity of the environmental impact review and permitting the various facilities will be dependent on siting of facilities in relationship to the various river basins and valleys surrounding the Arctic Project development target areas. Further, the Arctic Project will be situated near a number of parks and protected areas, including Kobuk National Park located 80km west, the Great Kobuk Sand Dunes and the Kobuk Valley and Selawik Wilderness areas 30 to 40km west, Selawik National Wildlife Refuge 20 to 25km southwest and the Gates of the Ambler National Park and Preserve approximately 80km northeast.
Due to the preliminary stages of this project, it is difficult to assess what specific permitting requirements will ultimately apply to the Arctic Project. Therefore, it is equally difficult to fully assess the proper content of specific baseline data gathering programs and/or the scope of the environmental review and project alternatives. Until all aspects of the Arctic Project are defined and further refined, it is difficult to list what required permits are anticipated and what timelines might be involved to complete environmental reviews and permitting processes. While it is envisioned that the Arctic Project will operate as a “zero-discharge” facility, significant baseline conditions assessment and facilities design and engineering will be required to establish the viability of such. The duration of time required for full project refinement may evolve during the environmental review and permitting processes and will directly correlate with the overall permitting timeline which is unknown at this time. There can be no assurance that the Arctic Project will be able to obtain or maintain all necessary licenses or permits or that the Arctic Project will obtain and maintain such licenses or permits on terms that enable operations to be conducted at economically justifiable costs.
Key subjects requiring further study include:
Project definition - substantial scientific and technical data still must be collected prior to the finalization of the Arctic Project definition.
Alternatives - what alternatives to the Arctic Project definition are feasible.
Socio-environmental studies - Archaeological, cultural resources, biological environmental (including wildlife migration and special status plants and wildlife species) studies must be completed for the Arctic Project site, service and/or access road rights of way and any other facilities that may be located outside the immediate vicinity of the mine. As required by the National Environmental Policy Act (“NEPA”), a direct, indirect and cumulative affects assessment would need to be conducted. It is anticipated that the project will require preparation of an environmental impact statement. Additional studies will be required to review project alternatives on minimization of impacts to reduce the potential mitigation required.
Acid generating potential - preliminary data obtained from historic reports indicate that the waste rock and tailings could potentially exhibit AGP concerns.
Effluent management - viability of “zero discharge” facility to be studied.
Stream impact - there is a potential that Subarctic Creek and/or the associated riparian zone along with various other additional streams and/or surface water features will be impacted by encroachment of project facilities.
Hydrogeology - additional technical analyses will be required to assess hydrogeological conditions, including groundwater flow and potential fate and transport analyses.
Community engagement and perceptions - the potential for impacts real or perceived to the subsistence hunting and fishing opportunities for the local population could result in public opposition to the Arctic Project. Early and expanded community engagement and governmental affairs programs will aid in minimizing these anticipated risks. As part of the NEPA process, it is anticipated that there will be public involvement through the scoping process.
Subsistence hunting/fishing - the perceived impacts to the subsistence hunting and fishing opportunities for the local population could result in public opposition to the Arctic Project, resulting in additional environmental review, permitting requirements and/or delays. Alternative studies may be required to determine preferred options.
Affected environment- technical analyses on air quality and climate, topography, geology, geotechnical considerations, surface water quality and hydrology, ground water quality and hydrology, aquatic resources, soils, vegetation and wetland, wildlife, recreation, visual resources, land use and noise.
In 2010 and 2011, the Arctic Project initiated an assessment of baseline hydrology, water quality and aquatic life. Additional studies will be needed on the environmental resources of the Arctic Project area in order to adequately define and establish baseline conditions at the site. The studies that have been performed are largely based on historical geological and geochemical data in order to characterize the rock mass. However, based on the rock mass characterization performed and summarized in these reports, ARD will likely be an issue addressed during project design in order to get operating permits. There is no assurance all approvals or required license and permits will be obtained.
The Arctic Project will require multiple permits from regulatory agencies and other entities at the Federal, State and local (Borough) levels. Due to the remoteness of the Arctic Project and lack of existing infrastructure, it is likely that a substantial environmental review and significant permitting effort will also be a part of the development of support infrastructure. Both mine and infrastructure-related environmental review and permitting efforts will be heavily focused toward water and air quality permits, specifically, how those permits could administer discharges, emissions and other waste management aspects associated with the operational facilities. Given the remoteness and environmentally sensitive location of the Arctic Project, the environmental review and permitting process may be protracted and/or more difficult over that which would be expected at a similar facility in or near a more developed area. It is possible that we will not be able to secure the necessary permits or that a legal challenge could be brought through one or more of these requirements or processes that could delay, increase costs or require the suspension of one or more permits.
The NEPA and the Council of Environmental Quality Regulations 40 CFR parts 1500-1508 will govern the Federal environmental permitting process for the Arctic Project. Issuance of permit(s) by a Federal agency constitutes a Federal action, which by law requires review through the NEPA process. Since development of the Arctic Project would require a number of Federal level permits, the Arctic Project will most likely be required to complete the NEPA process.
The NEPA process requires that all elements of a project and their direct, indirect and cumulative impacts be considered. A reasonable range of project alternatives are evaluated to assess their comparative environmental impacts, including consideration of feasibility and practicability. Typically, mining projects of this magnitude require the preparation of an environmental impact statement. The Alaska Division of Environmental Conservation could act as the lead state agency with responsibility to coordinate the state permitting process. Upon completion of the NEPA process, it is anticipated that a record of decision will be prepared by one or more agencies that presents the preferred alternative for the Arctic Project and the basis for the decision. Federal, state and local agencies needing to issue permits for the operation of the Arctic Project will then be able to take whatever steps are needed to complete the applicable permitting process and impose whatever restrictions or covenants may apply.
No assurance can be given that new laws and regulations will not be enacted or that exiting laws and regulations will not be applied in a manner that could limit or curtail the Arctic Project. Amendments to current laws, regulations, licenses and permits governing operations and activities of mining companies, or more stringent implementation thereof, could have a material adverse impact on the Arctic Project and cause increases in capital expenditures or production costs, or reduction in levels of production, or abandonment, or delays in the development of the business.
Arctic Project - Current Activities
Field work at the Arctic Project during 2011 included approximately 7,100 metres of exploration and geotechnical drilling. Exploration drilling focused on the Bornite target and geotechnical drilling to provide structural information on the Arctic deposit for a greater understanding of the deposit as well as subsurface hydrologic information. In addition, significant progress was made in establishing camp infrastructure to support larger field programs including the building of a 40-man camp near the Bornite Project.
The 2012 work program focused on advancing the environmental and engineering studies required to initiate a pre-feasibility study for the project, with geotechnical, metallurgical and hydrological studies as well as environmental baseline data collection. Approximately 1,752 meters of exploration drilling has been completed during 2012 on the Sunshine target which is 12 kilometers west of the Arctic deposit. Additional exploration drilling may be planned for prospects in the Ambler belt which have been identified through further analysis and mapping during 2012.
NovaCopper also completed initial metallurgical optimization results from the Arctic Project through the completion of a metallurgical test work program in 2012. The work results in an increase of copper recoveries to 88.6% from 86.8% and zinc recoveries to 91.7% from 81.1% previously reported in our PEA. It also resulted in improved precious metal recoveries to the copper concentrate.
Bornite Project, Ambler District, Alaska
Bornite Project
Except for the information under the heading “Bornite Project - Recent Developments” and except as otherwise stated, the scientific and technical information relating to the South Reef and Ruby Creek zones of the Bornite Project contained in this Form 10-K is derived from, and in some instances is an extract from, the technical report titled “NI 43-101 Technical Report for the Bornite Deposit, South Reef and Ruby Creek zones, Northwest Alaska” dated effective January 31, 2013 (the “Bornite Report”) prepared by Bruce Davis, FAusIMM and Robert Sim, P. Geo of BD Resource Consulting, Inc. (“BDRC”), and who are Qualified Persons as defined in NI 43-101. Scott Petsel, P. Geo, an employee to the Company and a Qualified Person as defined in 43-101, approved the scientific and technical information under the heading “Bornite Project - Recent Developments.” The information regarding the Bornite Project, the South Reef zone and the Ruby Creek zone is based on assumptions, qualifications and procedures which are not fully described herein. Reference should be made to the full text of the Bornite Report which has been filed with certain Canadian securities regulatory authorities pursuant to NI 43-101 and is available for review on SEDAR at www.sedar.com and on EDGAR at www.sec.gov.
Bornite Project - Property Description and Location
The UKMP Projects which encompasses the Bornite deposit and the previously reported Arctic deposit are located approximately 260 km east of Kotzebue, Alaska and 460 km northwest of Fairbanks, Alaska. The closest village is the community of Kobuk, approximately 17 km to the south situated along the banks of the Kobuk River. The Bornite Project constitutes a land package of approximately 97,483 hectares and is governed by the NANA Agreement. See “History of NovaCopper - Agreement with NANA Regional Corporation”.
Bornite Project - Accessibility, Climate, Local Resources, Infrastructure, and Physiography
The Bornite Project is located in Northwest Alaska in the Cosmos Hills on the southern flank of the Brooks Range. It is circa 67.1 º north latitude and 156.38 º west longitude, approximately 260 km east of Kotzebue, Alaska and 460 km northwest of Fairbanks, Alaska. Kobuk is the closest community to Bornite. There is daily air service from Kotzebue to Kobuk. Twenty-six kilometers of improved gravel road connect Kobuk to the Bornite Camp. On the road to the Bornite camp are the Dahl camp and a 1,460 meter airstrip. During the summer months the Dahl camp airstrip is suitable for larger aircraft such as C-130 and DC-6. A second, shorter airstrip is adjacent to the Bornite camp. This is suitable for smaller aircraft to support the Bornite camp with personnel and supplies. The two other villages close to Bornite are Shungnak, 16 km downriver from Kobuk, and Ambler, 48 km further downriver from Shungnak. The discussion regarding the accessibility challenges relating to the Arctic Project, particularly with respect to the development of an access road from the Dalton Highway, is applicable to the Bornite Project as well. (See “Arctic Project -Overview”).
The Bornite camp is 64 km north of the Arctic Circle. Average rainfall is approximately 43 cm per year while average snowfall is approximately 142 cm per year. Summers are generally mild and sunny while winters are extremely dark and cold. Extreme temperatures recorded in Kobuk range from 90ºF in summer to -68ºF in winter.
The Bornite Project is located on Ruby Creek on the northern edge of the Cosmos Hills. The Cosmos Hills are part of the southern flank of the Brooks Range in Northwest Alaska. Topography in the area is moderately rugged. Maximum relief in the Cosmos Hills is approximately 1000 meters with an average of 500 to 700 meters. Talus covers the upper portions of the hills. Glacial and fluvial sediments occupy valleys.
Alder brush and spruce grows in protected valleys, but exposed terrain is tundra-covered. Water is abundant. Discontinuous permafrost occurs throughout the area and is more prevalent on north-facing slopes.
Year-round exploration is not possible with the current camp facilities, so the field season is May to October. The Bornite camp closes during winter and a caretaker is on site during the months of November through April. Power and electricity are provided by diesel generators.
Except for resident personnel, the logistical resources necessary for the exploration work are limited. Most equipment and supplies are flown by charter flights from either Fairbanks or Kotzebue. Some supplies are flown in from Anchorage, Alaska.
In 2011, the camp was expanded to twenty sleeping tents, three administrative tents, two shower/bathroom tents, one medical tent, and one dining/cooking tent. With these additions, the camp capacity was increased to 49 beds. A 100 by 30 foot core logging facility was also built in summer of 2011.
In 2012, the camp was further expanded with the addition of a laundry tent, a women's shower/washroom tent, a recreation tent, several additional sleeping tents, and a twice-as-large kitchen tent. Camp capacity increased to 71 beds. The septic field was upgraded to accommodate the increase in camp population. One of the two-person cabins was winterized for use by the winter caretaker. A permitted landfill was established to allow for the continued cleanup and rehabilitation of the historic shop facilities and surroundings.
The Dahl Creek camp is an overflow facility to the Bornite camp. This camp has a main cabin for dining and administrative duties, and a shower facility. Sleeping facilities include two hard sided sleeping areas with 7 beds (primarily used for staff), two four-person sleeping tents and three two-person sleeping tents for a total of 21 beds. There are support structures including a shop and storage facilities.
Bornite Project - History
Kennecott and Bear Creek Mining Tenure
Regional exploration began in the early 1900s when gold prospectors noted copper occurrences in the hills north of Kobuk, Alaska. In 1947, local prospector Rhinehart “Rhiny” Berg along with various partners traversing in the area located outcropping mineralization along Ruby Creek (Bornite) on the north side of the Cosmos Hills. They subsequently staked claims over the Ruby Creek showings and constructed an airstrip for access. In 1956, R. Chadwick of Kennecott Mining Company heard about the Ruby Creek property from a Bureau of Mines employee in Nome and followed up with Rhiny Berg. In 1957, as a result of this communication, Bear Creek Mining Company (“BCMC”), Kennecott's exploration subsidiary, optioned the property from Berg.
Exploration drilling in 1961 and 1962 culminated in the discovery of the No.1 Ore Body in what is referred to as the Upper Reef where DDH-RC-34 cut 20 meters of 24% copper. The discovery of the No.1 Ore Body led to the development of an exploration shaft in 1966. The shaft which reached a depth of 328 meters encountered a significant watercourse and was flooded near completion depth. The shaft was subsequently dewatered and an exploration drift developed to provide access for sampling, mapping and to accommodate underground drilling to further delineate the No.1 Ore Body. A total of 59 underground holes were drilled and after the program the shaft was allowed to re-flood.
In unison with ongoing exploration at Bornite, BCMC initiated preliminary metallurgical test work in 1961. A total of 32 assay rejects samples from five AX diamond drill holes weighing approximately 68 kilograms from drill holes (RC-34, 54, 60, 61 and 65) that penetrated mainly the No.1 Ore Body were submitted for analysis.
The discovery of the Arctic Project in 1965 prompted a hiatus in exploration at Bornite. In the late 1990s, Kennecott resumed its evaluation of the Bornite deposit and the mineralization in the Cosmos Hills with an intensive soil, stream, and rock chip geochemical sampling program using 32 element ICP analysis. Grid soil sampling yielded 765 samples. Ridge and spur sampling resulted in an additional 850 soil samples in the following year. Skeletonized core samples (85 samples) from key historic drill holes were also analyzed using 32 element ICP analytical methods. Geochemical sampling identified multiple areas of elevated copper and zinc in the Bornite region.
Kennecott completed numerous geophysical surveys as an integral part of exploration throughout their tenure on the property. Various reports, notes, figures, and data files stored in Kennecott’s Salt Lake City exploration office indicated that geophysical work included, but was not limited to, the following:
Airborne magnetic and electromagnetic (EM) surveys (fixed-wing INPUT) (1950s)
Gravity, single point (SP), Audio-Frequency Magneto-Telluric (AMT), EM, borehole and surface IP/resistivity surveys (1960s)
Gravity, airborne magnetic, and Controlled Source Audio-frequency Magneto-Telluric (CSAMT) surveys (1990s)
We have little information or documentation associated with these geophysical surveys except those conducted in the 1990’s. Where data are available in earlier surveys, the lack of details in data acquisition, coordinate systems and data reduction procedures limit their usefulness. The only complete geophysical report available concerns down hole IP/resistivity results. Most notable of the 1990’s surveys is the 1996 Bouger gravity survey from the Bornite deposit into the Ambler lowlands. The Bornite deposit itself is seen as a significant 3 milligal anomaly. Numerous 2 to more than 6 milligal anomalies occur under cover in the Ambler lowlands and near the Aurora and Pardner Hills occurrences.
The wide range of geophysical techniques used in and around the deposit over a span of 40 years probably indicates the difficulty Kennecott/BCMC was having directly detecting ore. When applying EM and IP/resistivity methods, the problem appears to be that deeper mineralization is often masked by the response of near-surface conductive and polarizable rocks.
In addition to the geophysical surveys conducted by Kennecott, the Alaska DNR and Geometries completed an aeromagnetic survey of portions of the Ambler district in 1974-1975.
Kennecott Ambler District Exploration
Concurrently with the ongoing work at Bornite (Ruby Creek), BCMC mounted an aggressive regional exploration program beginning in 1962 both within the Cosmos Hills and within the adjacent Ambler Schist belt.
In 1965, while re-evaluating a 1400 ppm copper geochemical anomaly from sampling completed in 1963, BCMC geologists discovered sulfides in float on the east side of Arctic Ridge a short distance below the crest of the ridge. Eight core holes were drilled in 1967 intersecting massive sulfide mineralization over a 1,500 foot strike length. Initial results were sufficiently encouraging that BCMC changed their focus to the Arctic deposit from the Bornite (Ruby Creek) mineralization. BCMC subsequently drilled 84 core holes at Arctic totaling 15,689 meters from August 1967 to July 1985.
In 1973 a claim staking war began which was to last over two years as Anaconda, Noranda, WGM, and Sunshine Mining entered the Ambler district. BCMC and its competitors discovered several other prospects, including two potential deposits (Sun and Smucker). Both the Bornite (Ruby Creek) and Arctic deposits received patents on the core claim groups. However, the relative inaccessibility of the Ambler district, along with depressed metals prices, caused interest in the district to wane and significant exploration or development activity in the district ended in 1985. Cominco acquired the claims covering the Sun and Smucker deposits from Anaconda in 1987. Kennecott sold its Bornite (Ruby Creek) deposit and the surface development at Bornite to NANA in 1986. The area's inaccessibility remains the single largest obstacle in the development of the Ambler district.In 1993 Kennecott Minerals, after negotiating an agreement with NANA, began a reevaluation of the Arctic deposit that included reinterpretation of the geology of the deposit and the assembly of a computer database. In 1995, a computer-generated block model was constructed and an updated resource of the deposit was calculated from the block model. In September 1997, a total of 2,035 State of Alaska claims were located; these covering most of the known Ambler schist belt rocks.
NovaGold Tenure - Ambler Mining District
An exploration agreement between Kennecott Arctic Company and NovaGold under which NovaGold had the ability to earn a 51% interest in the Ambler lands was signed on March 22, 2004. Between 2004 and 2009 NovaGold conducted project and regional level mapping, geophysical and geochemical surveys and drilling on Ambler lands.
Under a purchase agreement dated December 18, 2009 between NovaGold, its wholly-owned subsidiary Alaska Gold Company and Kennecott Exploration Company and Kennecott Arctic Company, NovaGold agreed to pay Kennecott a total purchase price of US$29 million for a 100% interest in the Ambler lands. On August 5, 2011, NovaGold made the final payment thereby completing NovaGold’s obligations under the purchase agreement.
Historical Resource Estimations
All of the historic resource estimates presented below were made prior to the implementation of NI 43-101. They do not conform to NI 43-101 reporting standards and should not be relied upon or interpreted as such. They are presented here for information purposes only.
Though no NI 43-101 compliant resource estimates have ever been released by Kennecott or NANA, a series of non-NI 43-101 compliant historical resources have been compiled for the Bornite Project. The earliest and most widely repeated resource number reported 91 million tons at 1.2% Cu in an unconstrained polygonal resource estimate. At a constrained 1% Cu cut-off grade, 21.2 million tons of 3.04% Cu and at a 2.5% Cu cut-off, 5.2 million tons of 5.83% Cu were reported. The estimation is based on an 11.0 ft3/ton tonnage factor for the Lower Reef or lower grade mineralization and a 10.0 ft3/ton tonnage factor for the higher grade Upper Reef mineralization. It is not known if the tonnage factors were based on any direct specific gravity measurements of the Bornite drill core. Metals such as silver and cobalt were not considered in any of the historical estimations.
Another non-NI 43-101 compliant historical resource estimate was completed in 1968 for the No.1 Ore Body. The unverified estimate is 180,000-200,000 tons at 8.4% Cu. A second resource estimate in 1971, is summarised in Kennecott annual reports for the project. In either case, the details of the estimation could not be verified. The second estimation was apparently tabulated using a grade times thickness cut-off criterion.
In the late 1970s, Bear Creek restated the 5 million tonne resource, including the No. 1 Ore Body and other unnamed bodies of high grade ore east and west of the shaft.
In 1974 another internal Kennecott resource estimation for Bornite was completed. The estimation using a polygonal methodology is not considered entirely accurate as down-hole surveys were not available for all drill holes. The ore (mineralized) lenses where erratic, however, in total, it was felt that the resource was, a reasonable approximation of the potential of the two reefs. A 10.5 ft3/ton tonnage factor for >1% copper mineralization and an 8.0 ft3/ton tonnage factor for >4% Cu mineralization was utilized.
These estimations reported 5 million tons (4.56 million tonnes) at 4% Cu and 40 million tons (36.2 million tonnes) at 2% Cu, respectively without reporting cut-off grades. The sources of these estimations are unknown.
In 1997, a more rigorous resource estimation of the Ruby Creek (Bornite) deposit used Vulcan 3D modeling and resource estimation software. A series of grade shells at 0.2%, 0.5% and 1.0% copper were manually constructed on sections and imported into the Vulcan. Within each shell, separate resource calculations at 0.5%, 1.0%, 2%, and 4.0% copper cut-off grades were made. The grade shells were constructed irrespective of various lithologies or mineralization styles. Attempts to create meaningful semi-variograms for copper mineralization were unsuccessful. Lacking useful semi-variograms, an inverse distance squared weighting methodology was used to estimate the resource. Results of the estimation are shown in Table 4.
Table 4: Bornite Historical Resource (Kennecott, 1997)
An approximation of the specific gravity, based on the relationship of copper grade to specific gravity, was supplied by Kennecott. No support for the approximation was presented. The author recognized that the tonnages for massive pyrite areas with low grade copper zones are significantly underestimated.
Bornite Project - Geological Setting and Mineralization
The Bornite Project is located within the Arctic Alaska Terrane, a sequence of mostly Paleozoic continental margin rocks that make up the Brooks Range and North Slope of Alaska. It is within the Phyllite Belt geologic subdivision, which together with the higher grade Schist Belt, stretches almost the entire length of the Brooks Range and is considered to represent the hinterland of the Jurassic Brooks Range orogeny. The southern margin of the Phyllite Belt is marked by melange and low angle faults associated with the Kobuk River fault zone, while the northern boundary is thought to be gradational with the higher grade metamorphic rocks of the Schist Belt.
The autochthonous stratigraphy of the Ambler district is characterized by lower greenschist to epidote-amphibolite facies, pelitic, carbonate and local metavolcanic rocks.
The geology of the Ruby Creek resource area of the Bornite Project is composed of alternating beds of carbonate rocks (limestone and dolostone) and calcareous phyllite. Limestone transitions laterally into dolostone, which hosts the majority of the mineralization and is considered to be hydrothermal in origin. Spatial relationships and petrographic work establish dolomitization as genetically related to early stages of the copper mineralizing system.
Our geologists have been unable to identify any meta-igneous rocks in the resource area; all lithologies described are interpreted as metasedimentary in origin.
Potentially the earliest and most prominent structure in the resource area is the northeast-trending, steeply northwest-dipping Iron Mountain structure which is interpreted as either a pre or syn-mineral (Devonian) growth fault; or, the post-mineral (Cretaceous) axis of a small overturned kink fold. Numerous observations can be made to support both interpretations. Importantly, the distribution of pre-mineral sedimentary breccias and the mineralization which is relatively undeformed along the corridor suggest an early ore-controlling origin of the structure likely modified by later post mineral deformation.
To the north, the Bornite Carbonate sequence is in fault contact with the Beaver Creek phyllite along the moderately north-dipping Beaver Creek fault.
Bornite Project - Mineralization
Copper mineralization in the South Reef zone consists of one to as many as three mineralized intervals (at a 0.5% cut-off) coalescing into a crudely stratiform body hosted in secondary dolomite developed at or near the Iron Mountain structure. The body which is approximately 250 m to 300 m wide and 750 m long varies in true thickness from roughly 10 m to as much as 170 m.
Copper mineralization at the Ruby Creek zone consists of at least seven stacked, crudely-stratiform bodies hosted in secondary dolostone. These approximately tabular zones are semi-equant in plan view and range from approximately 75 to 1700 meters in dimension (at a 0.2% copper cut-off). True thicknesses vary greatly and range from roughly 1 to greater than 150 meters with thicknesses up to 200 meters where multiple zones are closely stacked.
High grade mineralization-massive copper sulfides of greater than 10% copper-occurs as stratiform bodies with footprints of 50 to 150 meters and thicknesses ranging from 1 to 17 meters.
The Bornite deposit area is divided into three generalized zones or loci of increased grade and thickness: the South Reef zone and the Ruby Creek zone comprised of the Lower Reef and Upper Reef. The Lower and Upper Reefs of the Ruby Creek zone are separated stratigraphically, but lie along a common north-easterly trend, and the South Reef is located about 750 m to the southeast along a similar north-easterly trend.Copper mineralization at the Bornite Project is comprised of chalcopyrite, bornite, and chalcocite distributed in stacked, roughly stratiform zones exploiting favorable stratigraphy within the dolomitized limestone package. Mineralization occurs, in order of increasing grade, as disseminations, irregular and discontinuous stringer-style veining, breccia matrix replacement, and stratiform massive sulfides. Typical high grade mineralization is composed of strong chalcocite, bornite and chalcopyrite mineralization.
The distribution of copper mineral species is zoned around the bottom-center of each zone, with bornite-chalcocite-chalcopyrite at the core and progressing outward to chalcopyrite-pyrite. Additional volumetrically minor copper species include carrollite, digenite, tennantite-tetrahedrite, and covellite. Stringer pyrite and locally significant sphalerite occur above and around the copper zones, while locally massive pyrite and sparse pyrrhotite occur in association with siderite alteration below copper mineralization in the Lower Reef.
In addition to the copper mineralization, significant cobalt mineralization (e.g. RC11-0187 with 34.7m at 0.10% Co in the South Reef, RC11-0184 with 5.5m at 0.44% Co in the Upper Reef) is found accompanying bornite-chalcocite mineralization. Cobalt occurs with high grade copper as both carrollite (Co2CuS4) and as cobaltiferous rims on recrystallized pyrite grains.
Appreciable silver values (e.g. RC11-0184 with 5.5m at 30.9g/t) are also found with bornite-rich mineralization in the South Reef and Ruby Creek zones.
The Bornite carbonate sequence host to the mineralization at the Bornite Project is exposed over approximately 16 km along the north slope of the Cosmos Hills and to a lesser extent on the southern margin of the Cosmos Hills arch. Numerous areas of hydrothermal dolomitization and copper mineralization occur across the entire width of outcropping carbonates and are the focus of ongoing regional exploration by us Most notable of the known prospects are the Pardner Hill and Aurora Mountain areas, where outcropping mineralization was discovered and drill-tested during the Kennecott era.
The Pardner Hill prospect is located 3 miles (5 kilometers) west of the Bornite deposit and consists of a 3 kilometer long Cu (± Zn) soil and rock geochemical anomaly in rubble cropping ferroan dolostone. Kennecott drilled 16 holes in the area and defined a stratiform copper mineralized zone roughly 150 by 400 meters and varying from 5 to 35 meters thick at the southern end of the geochemical anomaly. Mineralization remains open down-dip and to the south.
Dolomitization and anomalous copper and zinc geochemistry also characterize the Aurora Mountain prospect, located 3.6 miles (6 kilometers) west of Bornite. Anomalies are distributed along a 2 kilometer mineralized horizon about a third of which has been tested by 4 Kennecott era drill holes.
Bornite Project - Exploration
Exploration in and around the Bornite Project by Kennecott from 1957 to 1998 is summarized above. In addition to the extensive drilling completed during the more than 40 year tenure of Kennecott in the district, Kennecott completed widespread surface geochemical sampling, regional and property scale mapping, and numerous geophysical surveys employing a wide variety of techniques. The majority of this data has been acquired by us and forms the basis for renewed exploration targeting Bornite-style mineralization in the Bornite carbonate sequence.
NovaGold as the precursor company to us began to actively pursue an agreement to explore the Bornite Project with NANA in 2005 resulting in an initial airborne geophysical survey in 2006. Negotiations on the consolidation and exploration of the entire Ambler district continued for the next several years culminating in the NANA Agreement in October, 2011.
With the NANA Agreement approaching completion, NovaGold initiated work in 2010 to begin to characterize the exploration potential and depositional controls by re-logging and re-analyzing select drill holes with a Niton portable XRF to determine geochemical variability. In 2011, NovaGold began an initial drill program to verify the historical database and exploration potential and conducted additional geophysical surveys to provide better targeting tools for continued exploration in the district. In 2012, NovaCopper expanded the IP geophysical coverage completing a major district-wide survey that targeted the prospective Bornite Carbonate sequence.
2006 NovaGold Exploration
In 2006, NovaGold contracted Fugro World Wide to complete a detailed helicopter DIGHEM magnetic, electromagnetic and radiometric survey of the Cosmos Hills. The survey covered a rectangular block roughly 11 by 30 miles (18 by 49 kilometers which totaled 2852 line kilometers). The survey was flown at a 1000 foot (300 meter) line spacing with a line direction of N20E. The DIGHEM helicopter survey system produced detailed profile data of magnetics, EM responses and radiometrics (total count, uranium, thorium and potassium) and was processed into maps of magnetics, discrete EM anomalies, EM apparent resistivities, and radiometric responses.
2010 NovaGold Exploration
In 2010, in anticipation of completing the NANA Agreement, NANA granted NovaGold permission to begin low level exploration at the Bornite Project consisting of re-logging and re-analysis of select drill holes using a Niton portable XRF. A profile containing Kennecott surface diamond drill holes RC-27, -29, -32, -35, -53, -0, -62 and -102 and underground drill hole RU-16 were re-logged and analyzed in the Bornite Camp in 2010.
In general, the re-logging agreed moderately well with the 1996 Kennecott interpretation. Apparent general relationships include: 1) a thick area of dolomitization centred at ~ RC-60 corresponding with mineralization, and surrounding and overlying the No. 1 Ore Body; 2) iron-rich dolomite, forming an inner alteration zone; and 3) a strong stratigraphic control with mineralization occurring in dolomitized limestones immediately overlying a graphitic phyllite.
One notable distinction from the Kennecott interpretation in the re-logging was the recognition of a significant stratigraphic and structural discontinuity between the southeastern and northwestern parts of the section. A sharp, apparent truncation or offset of mineralization, dolomitization and stratigraphic units across this boundary is apparent in the re-logging effort. Interpretation of the discontinuity remains unclear at this time but could represent either a post-mineral offset or a potential syn-mineral feeder structure associated with mineralization in the No. 1 Ore Body.
The apparent structural complexity in the area surrounding the No. 1 Ore Body including the inferred structural discontinuity east of the No. 1 Ore Body contrast with the stratigraphic and structural continuity evident in weakly- to un-mineralized strata in the northwest part of the section. The structural heterogeneity in the area of the No. 1 Ore Body suggests that inferred structures in this area may have been active during hydrothermal activity and may have in part controlled mineral deposition.
In addition to the 2010 re-logging effort, NovaGold contracted a consulting geophysicist to compile a unified airborne magnetic map for the Ambler district from Kennecott, Alaska DNR and NovaGold airborne geophysical surveys.
2011 NovaGold Exploration
In light of the relatively poor understanding of appropriate ground geophysical techniques for the prospect and the extensive cover over perspective stratigraphic terrain dipping shallowly to the north in the Ambler lowlands, NovaGold in 2011 contracted Zonge International to conduct both dipole-dipole complex resistivity induced polarization (“CRIP”) and natural source audiomagnetotelluric (“NSAMT”) surveys over the prospect to develop better geophysical tools for further exploration.
NSAMT data were acquired along two lines totaling 5.15 line-km, with one line oriented generally N-S through the center of the survey area and one being the southernmost E-W line in the survey area. CRIP data were acquired on five lines - four E-W lines and one N-S line - for a total coverage of 14.1 line-km and 79 collected CRIP stations. The initial objective of the survey was to investigate geological structures and the distribution of sulfides possibly associated with copper mineralization.
Results from the paired surveys show that wide spaced dipole-dipole resistivity is the most effective technique in direct targeting of the mineralization package. Broad low resistivity anomalies reflecting the pyrite haloes and mineralization appear to define the limits of the fluid package. Well defined and often very strong chargeability anomalies are also present but appear in part to be masked by phyllitic units which also have strong chargeability signatures. The NSAMT show similar resistivity features as the IP but are less well resolved.
2012 NovaCopper Exploration
In light of the success of the 2011 geophysical program, NovaCopper contracted Zonge International to conduct a major district-wide dipole/dipole IP survey, a down-hole IP radial array survey in the South Reef, and an extensive physical property characterization study of the various lithologies to better interpret the existing historical geophysical data.
Zonge completed 48 line km of 200 m dipole/dipole IP during 2012, infilling and expanding on the 2011 survey, and stretching across the most prospective part of the outcropping permissive Bornite Carbonate sequence. Although the data are only now being interpreted, the results show a well-defined low resistivity area associated with mineralization and variable IP signatures attributed both to mineralization and the overlying Beaver Creek phyllite. Numerous target areas occur in the immediate Bornite area with lesser targets occurring in the Aurora Mountain and Pardner Hill areas and in the far east of the survey area. During the 2012 drill program at South Reef, a single drill hole was targeted on a low resistivity area approximately 500 m to 600 m southeast of the South Reef trend. Although the drill hole intersected some dolomite alteration in the appropriate stratigraphy, no significant sulphides were encountered.
In addition to the extensive ground IP survey, Zonge also completed 9 km of down-hole radial IP using an electrode placed in drill hole RCDH12-0197 to further delineate the trend and potential in and around the South Reef. Mineralization shows as broad conductive areas in both the Ruby Creek and the South Reef zones. The resistivity survey indicates there is potential to expand the South Reef zone to the northeast and to the south.
Exploration Potential
The Ambler district in which the Bornite Project is located, was the focus of major exploration activities in the 1960’s though the early 1980’s after which the district received little attention. Exploration beginning after NovaGold’s entry into the district in 2004 using current exploration techniques and ore genesis models suggests the Bornite carbonate sequence is a substantial exploration target.
Outcropping exposures of the ore-hosting carbonate stratigraphy along with large areas of precursor dolomite alteration occur over roughly 18 km of strike along the northern flank of the Cosmos Hills. Historical exploration drilling has focused solely on outcropping mineralization and subsurface extensions at Bornite and the Aurora/Pardner Hill areas. Much of the carbonate belt has yet to be evaluated.
Recent USGS dating of mineralization in the Ambler district has shown that the VMS belt hosting the Arctic deposit and the Bornite carbonate-hosted mineralization are contemporaneous and only slightly post-date enclosing stratigraphy. This early and extensive syngenetic/early epigenetic signature, along with the overall fluid chemistry of the system investigated by early workers, point to large saline basin-generated fluid transport as the mechanism controlling the metallogeny of the Ambler district. Importantly similar metallogenies related to saline, basin-generated fluids and their associated deposits form some of the largest Cu-districts in the world.
Understanding the potential scale of mineralization in the Ambler district has led us to adopt geophysical and geochemical zonation as their main tools of exploration.
Airborne geophysics undertaken in 2006, along with district wide compilations of select third party data discussed above show that the Bornite carbonate section and bounding stratigraphy simply dip to the north under the Ambler lowlands toward the Ambler schist belt. This opens important potential to explore for high-grade Bornite-style carbonate-hosted deposits at depth using new deeper-penetrating geophysical techniques.
The geophysical surveys have delineated significant NNE to NE oriented structures which appear in part to control local basin morphology and mineralization. Better understanding of basin development and its structural framework is critical to exploration of Bornite-style systems.
In 1999, Kennecott completed an initial gravity survey of the lowlands showing significant gravimetric anomalies which may indicate structural dislocations and potential alteration and mineralization. In 2011, we investigated both deep IP and NSAMT geophysical techniques. Results from the 2011 program led to a 2012 district-wide, 200 m dipole-dipole, deep-penetrating IP survey. That survey along with extensive 2012 physical property data capture for all lithologies and existing ground IP, gravity and airborne EM and magnetic surveys is currently being used to develop a comprehensive geophysical model of the district to support future exploration targeting.
In addition to the geophysical techniques utilized in exploration, recent ICP trace element analysis suggests a series of effective zonation vectors, including very distinct high iron (as pyrite) and zinc (as sphalerite) zones which overly and cap areas of significant copper mineralization.
Bornite Project - Drilling
The subsurface of the Bornite deposit has been explored by 217 diamond drill holes totaling 70,003 meters in 20 different annual campaigns dating from 1957 through 2012. Three underground programs totaling 51 drill holes targeted on the No.1 Ore Body were completed between 1966 and 1968.
All of the drill campaigns except the 2011 NovaGold campaign and the 2012 NovaCopper campaign, 14 and 22 drill holes, respectively, were undertaken by Kennecott. Sprague and Henwood, a Pennsylvania-based drill company completed all of the Kennecott drilling except the 1997 program (3 drill holes) completed by Tonto Drilling Services, Inc. (a NANA Dynatech company). The 2011 NovaGold and 2012 NovaCopper programs utilized Boart Longyear Company.
In the initial years of drilling at the Bornite Project, Kennecott relied on AX core (1.1875 inch diameter) but as deeper holes pursuing mineralization down dip to north became the norm, use of BX core (1.625 inch diameter) was gradually implemented. Small diameter AX rods would twist under the high torque and deviate in undetermined directions. From 1966 to1967 drilling activity at Bornite moved underground and EX diameter core (0.845 inch diameter) was implemented to define the No.1 Ore Body. Drilling activity moved back to the surface in 1968 and from 1968 to 1972, BX core was most commonly drilled. In later years, core size increased to NX (2.125 inch diameter) and in 2011 to NQ (1.874 inch or 47.6 mm diameter) and HQ (2.5 inch or 63.5 mm diameter). Progressively larger diameter drill rods have been continually increased over the years in an attempt to minimize drill hole deviations.
Drill Campaigns
In October 1965, Kennecott began a shaft to further investigate the No.1 Ore Body. In 1966 the shaft reached the 297 meter level. At this level a 91 meter crosscut was driven due north to the No.1 Ore Body. The shaft was continued to 328 meter deep to prepare a sump and loading pocket. On October 27, 1966 a small blast to excavate a bay at the bottom of the shaft opened a watercourse. The in-flood of water quickly exceeded the pump capacity and within 12 hours the 328 meter shaft was flooded to within 13 meters from the surface.
Prior to the shaft flooding, six diamond drill holes were completed from the 700 level shaft station and 22 drill holes from the 975 shaft station and cross cut. In 1967 the shaft bottom was partially sealed then pumped out and an additional twenty-four holes were drilled from the 975 level and the 700 level shaft stations.
Between 1968 and 1983, Kennecott completed very limited drilling at the Bornite Project largely focusing on extensions to the No.1 ore Body or targeting the South reef area. Kennecott subsequently sold the property to NANA and no exploration drilling occurred between 1983 and 1997. In 1997 Kennecott leased the Bornite Project from NANA and drilled five exploration holes.
In 2011, NovaGold negotiated a preliminary agreement with NANA, allowing NovaGold to conduct an exploration program on the Bornite Project in anticipation of the broader scoped NANA Agreement which was close to completion. That year NovaGold drilled 14 holes totaling 5,819 meters.
The 2011 NovaGold drill program had three objectives: 1) to obtain new geologic and assay data to verify and validate the previous work done by Kennecott; 2) to test extensions of the know deposit; and 3) to drill new areas for potential mineralization and geologic information near the deposit.
In 2012, NovaCopper, based on the results of its 2011 exploration drilling at South Reef, began aggressively delineating mineralization in that zone. A total of 21 drill holes and one nearby exploration drill hole were completed totalling 15,457 m. The drilling was patterned on hexagonal closely-packed drill spacing with individual holes spaced approximately 100 m apart on the apices of equilateral triangles.
Results from the South Reef drilling in 2012 are shown in Table 5.
Table 5: 2012 South Reef Drilling Significant Mineralized Intervals
All of the drill data collected during the Kennecott drilling programs (1958 - 1997) was logged on paper drill logs, copies of which are stored in the Kennecott Exploration office in Salt Lake City, Utah. Electronic scanned copies of the paper logs, in PDF format, are held by us.
In 1995, Kennecott entered the drill assay data, the geologic core logs, and the down hole collar survey data into an electronic format. In 2009, NovaGold geologists verified the geologic data from the original paper logs against the Kennecott electronic format and then merged the data into a Microsoft SQL database.
For the 2011 and 2012 NovaGold/NovaCopper drill programs, a commercial computer based core logging system was used. The core logging software, GeoSpark Logger was developed by GeoSpark Consultants Inc. The data logger program stores the information logged in a Microsoft SQL database which in turn is validated then merged into the main database. In 2012, the system was modified to allow each laptop to sync daily to the master Data Logger database residing on the Bornite Camp server. The server was periodically backed up and the database was sent to Vancouver, British Columbia for backup storage. The camp server is stored in the Fairbanks field office at the end of each field season. Hardcopies of the 2011 and 2012 drill core logs are stored in the Fairbanks office. Scanned copies of the Kennecott-era drill logs are also stored in the Fairbanks field office.
In general, core recovery averaged >90 percent with only slightly poorer recovered in phyllitic rocks. Mineralized dolomitic units had excellent recoveries in excess of 93 percent. South Reef drilling, in 2012, showed core recovery rates of 88.8% overall and 88.3% in the mineralized dolomite and massive sulphide intervals.
Bornite Project - Sample Preparation, Analyses and Security
During the 2011 and 2012 drill programs at the Bornite Project, we utilized strict sampling protocols developed for the nearby Arctic deposit in 2004 and documented in written NovaGold procedures manuals for all subsequent years. The following discussion outlines the standard protocols used by us in 2011 and 2012. The entire length of each hole was sampled excluding recovered overburden. Core-logging geologists marked each sample interval on the core and labelled the core boxes using a china marker. A tear-off sample tag was affixed to the core box at the beginning of each sample interval which typically ranged from 1 to 3 meters in length though samples as short as 0.35 meters and as long as 6.09 meters were taken in a few instances. Sample intervals within mineralized zones were limited to a 2 meter maximum length. Sample breaks were placed at lithological contacts and changes in alteration and sulfide mineralization. There are no known drilling or recovery issues that could materially impact accuracy.
The core was digitally photographed and cut in half using diamond core saws after logging at the on-site core facility. If the drill core intersected mineralization at a shallow angle, the core logging geologist would place a guide line on the core to ensure a representative sample. Oriented core was cut along the orientation mark to preserve the orientation of the core unless otherwise marked by the core geologist. One-half of the cut core was returned to the box for storage on-site and the other half was bagged and labeled for sample processing and analysis.
Sampling of drill core by Kennecott during their tenure on the property focused primarily on moderate to strongly mineralized zones. Numerous intervals of weak to moderate mineralization remain un-sampled in the historic drill core and in the 1997 campaign, where Kennecott did not intersect significant mineralization, no analyses were undertaken for resource evaluation. Intervals of moderate to strong sulfide mineralization were selected for sampling and analyses were conducted by the Union Assay Office Inc. of Salt Lake City, Utah, prior to the establishment of the on-site lab in 1962.
The 2011 and 2012 halved core samples were crushed to 70% passing 2 millimeters and a nominal 250 gram split was pulverized to 85% passing 75 microns at the ALS Minerals Fairbanks facility. The resulting pulp was sent to ALS Minerals Vancouver lab for analysis. Gold content was determined by fire assay fusion with an atomic absorption (AA) finish from a nominal 30 gram split. Initial results for all other elements (48) were determined via four acid digestion and both ICP-MS and ICP-AES analysis on a nominal 25 gram split. Samples with over limit values for copper and zinc (>10,000ppm) were re-run using a four acid digestion, which was diluted for an ICP-AES or AA finish. Samples greater than 40% Cu were re-run using a volumetric titration finish after a four acid digestion.
NovaCopper continued its QA/QC program first initiated by NovaGold in 2004. Three QA/QC samples selected by the logging geologist were inserted into every 20 sample batch. QA/QC samples included one duplicate, one blank, and one standard reference material (“SRM”). Duplicate samples were prepared at the prep facility by taking a second split from the entire prepped sample. In 2011, a commercial landscape marble was used as the blank material for every drill hole, except one. Barren marble core, from a previous abandoned drill hole, was used as the blank material for one 2011 drill hole and all 2012 drill holes.
In 2011, a very low grade SRM was inserted in batches that consisted of unmineralized core. The other three SRMs, ranging in accepted copper values of 0.193% to 2.37%, were inserted to match the estimated copper content of the core. One SRM was sourced from CDN Resource Laboratories Ltd. labs in Langley, British Columbia and the other three were from Ore Research and Exploration in North Victoria, Australia. In 2012, a very low grade SRM was inserted in batches that consisted of unmineralized core. The other four SRMs, ranging in accepted copper values of 0.193% to 10.403%, were inserted to match the estimated copper content of the core. Two SRMs were sourced from CDN labs ; one was sourced from Ore Research & Exploration Pty Ltd., North Victoria, Australia; and, the remaining two were sourced from Geostats Pty Ltd. of Western Australia. Assay performance for blank and SRM samples was within acceptable limits.
Check samples for a second lab were selected by the project geologist once all the primary assay results were received. The check samples consisted of 5% of the total samples from only the mineralized lithologies (carbonates and semi to massive sulfides) and were randomly selected. These samples were forwarded to Acme labs, also located in Vancouver, British Columbia. No bias is apparent.
The QA/QC results are reviewed by the database administer in the Vancouver office.
All 2011 and 2012 core logging data including sample intervals and descriptions, were directly entered into a Microsoft Access based application called DataLogger, created by, and customized for the project by GeoSpark Consulting Inc., of Nanaimo, British Columbia. In 2011, this data was imported on a weekly basis into the DataShed database located on a server in the NovaGold Vancouver Office. In 2012, the system was modified to allow each laptop to sync daily to the master Data Logger database residing on the Bornite camp server. Assay data was imported directly into DataShed from csv files either downloaded or e-mailed from ALS Labs.
Each cut sample interval was placed in a 6-mil polyethylene bag with the sample number written in black permanent marker with an attached Tyvek sample card stub detailing the sample number and bar code. Two to four samples were placed into a larger rice bag labeled with the ALS Minerals address, project (hole) number, bag number, and sample numbers enclosed. The rice bag was secured with a pre-number plastic security tie and a twist wire tie. The security tie number was recorded, along with the total weight. The rice bags were transported from the Bornite Camp to Fairbanks by chartered flights on a commercial carrier. A contracted expeditor met the chartered flights at the airport to pick-up up the sample shipment and deliver directly to the ALS Minerals prep facility, 1060 Bush Street, Fairbanks. Each drill hole was dispatched as one project, though many shipments were necessary per hole due to the limited capacity of the charter flights. ALS processed each batch as they arrived at the prep facility; however, ALS held the pulps until the entire drill hole was prepared so that the drill hole was analyzed as a single project or job in Vancouver. ALS Minerals did not notify us that any security ties were missing or broken or that any other issues occurred with the sample shipments or packaging.
In addition to the analytical data, density measurements for the 2011 and 2012 programs were performed on-site by internal personnel. The specific gravity of selected samples was calculated by weighing the entire assay interval dry and then submersed it in water. No known density measurements were performed by Kennecott.
Our independent Qualified Person (BD Resource Consulting) considers the Bornite Project drill core sampling protocols, security and analytical procedures to meet accepted industry standard procedures. Core recovery is good and there is no evidence that diamond drill recovery could materially impact the assay sampling results.
Analytical and Test Laboratories
ALS Minerals was used for all primary analyses submitted in 2011 and 2012. The core samples were sent from site to the ALS prep facility in Fairbanks, Alaska. The samples were processed and reduced to pulps at this facility and sent to ALS Minerals Vancouver, British Columbia lab for analysis. ALS Minerals is located at 2103 Dollarton Highway, North Vancouver, British Columbia, V7H 0A7. ALS Minerals complies with and is accredited for the requirements of ISO 9001:2008 and ISO/IEC 17025:2005 General Requirements for the Competence of Testing and Calibration Laboratories.
The ALS Minerals Vancouver lab forwarded the selected check sample pulps to Acme Analytical Labs, also in Vancouver. Acme Labs is located at 1020 Cordova St. East, Vancouver, British Columbia V6A 4A3. Acme Labs is compliant with the ISO 9001 Model for Quality Assurance and ISO/IEC 17025 General Requirements for the Competence of Testing and Calibration Laboratories.
Historical core was analyzed by Union Assay Lab in Salt Lake City, Utah and by the on-site Kennecott lab established in 1964.
Bornite Project - Database Management and Data Verification
In 2007, legacy data (1957-1997) was compiled from both digital and paper logs supplied by Kennecott into a central Microsoft Access database.
In 2008, the Microsoft Access database was imported into DataShed©, a SQL based data management software program created by Maxwell Geoservices Pty Ltd.
In 2011, NovaGold began using a Customizable Data Logger created by GeoSpark Consulting at the Bornite Project. This Microsoft Access© based software was used to capture all drilling and surface data. A data entry technician entered the geological information, collar, and down-hole survey data, at the Bornite camp. This data was then exported by geologists on site to Microsoft Excel© or Access format and posted on a secure FTP site for the Database Manager in Vancouver. These exports were then imported directly into the DataShed database in Vancouver. Assay data were imported directly from electronic files provided by the laboratories. At the end of the field season, all geological information, collar, and down-hole survey information was visually verified by staff geologists by comparing original files against an export of the database.
Also in 2011, NovaGold began to capture specific gravity and geotechnical data, such as Rock Quality Designation (RQD) and core recovery. Specific gravity data were recorded and then entered into Microsoft™ Excel spreadsheets. Geotechnical data were recorded and then entered into the Data Logger software. Data were exported to the Database Manager in Vancouver to be included in the DataShed database. A 100% visual check of the specific gravity and geotechnical logs were completed at the end of the 2011 field season and all errors and omissions were corrected in the DataShed database.
In 2012, NovaCopper contracted GeoSpark to convert the Bornite Project DataShed database into a SQL-based data management software program. GeoSpark was contracted to update the Data Logger software, manage the database, and provide ongoing QA/QC support. In 2012, NovaCopper geologists logged directly into the Data Logger software and data were uploaded to the master database on a daily basis. Assay data were imported directly from electronic files provided by the laboratories. At the end of the field season, QA/QC checks were conducted on the database and, at that time, some minor errors and omissions were corrected. Geotechnical data (RQD and Recovery) was also captured on paper and entered into the Data Logger program. A 100% visual check of the 2011 Geotechnical logs has been completed and all errors and omissions have been corrected in the DataShed Bornite database.
In order to ensure the integrity of the Bornite Project database, an independent data management consultant was contracted by NovaGold to carry out a 100% audit of the historic (1957-1997) collar, down-hole survey, sample interval and assay data in September 2011. There are no previous known comprehensive audits of the historic Bornite dataset.
A preliminary Bornite Project database had been constructed in previous years by NovaGold staff as outlined above, which was used as a starting point for the Cote audit. After initial review it was determined that since the 2007 NovaGold database was so limited, it was deemed prudent to not simply audit the database but to rebuild the entire dataset from the original data sources now in our possession. Collar, down hole survey, sample interval and assay data were re-entered using double entry procedures to ensure validity. All remaining data including lithology, alteration and mineralization have not been re-entered or validated at this time. Discrepancies and errors and subsequent actions and adjustments to the new database for the collar, downhole survey, interval and assay data are outlined below and were implemented.
Collar Data
213 collars were initially in the Bornite database in DataShed
76 of the 213 collars could not be verified with any original data source
9 significant conversion errors were identified within the RC holes
All of the RU and RUS underground holes had significant conversion errors
All of the verified collar data were merged into the Bornite database in DataShed
Down hole Survey Data
664 down-hole survey records were initially in the Bornite database in DataShed
160 of the 664 could not be verified with any original data source
20 of the 504 records that could be verified had small (<2 degree) errors, mostly due to incorrect calculations using magnetic north.
All of the verified data was merged into the Bornite database in DataShed
Sample Data
After backup, all sample data were deleted from the Bornite database in DataShed
7,385 samples were located from original data sources (documents, drill logs, etc.)
563 “NoSample(s)” were created to account for un-sampled intervals
819 QC (check) samples were delineated
39 overall errors (meterages, sample numbers) were identified
28 of the 39 errors were accepted and changes were made to the database after review of the results
All of the verified sample data were merged into the Bornite database in DataShed
Assay Data
After a similar backup, all assay data was deleted from the Bornite database in DataShed
In a first pass of the assay data, all copper (Cu) values from assay certificates were entered
After the first pass, 1,385 Cu values in the database without verifiable data sources listed
After the first pass, 1,766 cobalt values and 743 base metal values (gold, silver, lead, and zinc) were without a verifiable data source. A NovaCopper geologist made a second pass and entered the remaining copper assay data from other sources (principally drill logs) and then made a third pass and verified the remainder of the cobalt and base metal data.
All of these verified assay values have been merged into the Bornite database in DataShed
Overall, there were very few errors (<3%) found between the entire historic and the re-entered Bornite Project database. Collar errors were mostly transformation problems between coordinate systems while errors in the down-hole survey data were small azimuth and dip calculation problems. Minor errors in the sample data were generally meterage typos. All errors have been addressed and corrected.
Bruce Davis, FAusIMM, BD Resource Consulting, Inc., examined a series of randomly selected drill core intervals from the Ruby Creek and South Reef zones during his site visits in July, 2011 and September, 2012. In all cases, the type and content of observed copper-bearing minerals supported the copper grades found in the Bornite Project database.
The South Reef database is derived from 100% NovaCopper-era drill holes and six Kennecott drill holes which were re-sampled by NovaCopper in 2012.
Bornite Project - Mineral Resource Estimates
The mineral resource statement presented below is a NI 43-101 compliant mineral resource evaluation for the Ruby Creek and South Reef zones filed by us for the Bornite Project. The mineral resource model was prepared by BDRC and SIM Geological Inc. and considers diamond drill holes drilled by Kennecott during the period from 1957 to 1997, NovaGold during 2011 and NovaCopper during 2012. Bruce Davis, FAusIMM, is the president of BDRC and the author of the Technical Report. Bruce Davis is an independent “qualified person”, within the meaning of NI 43-101..Robert Sim, PGeo, is the president of SIM Geological Inc. (SGI) and the co-author of the Technical Report. Robert Sim is an independent “qualified person.The effective date of the resource statement is January 31, 2013.
The Bornite Project has no known reserves.
This section describes the resource estimation methodology and summarizes the key assumptions considered by BDRC. In the opinion of BDRC, the resource evaluation reported herein is a sound representation of the copper mineral resources found at the Bornite Project at the current level of sampling. The mineral resources have been estimated in conformity with generally accepted CIM “Estimation of Mineral Resource and Mineral Reserves Best Practices” guidelines and are reported in accordance with the Canadian Securities Administrators’ National Instrument 43-101. Mineral resources are not mineral reserves and do not have demonstrated economic viability. There is no certainty that all or any part of the mineral resource will be converted into mineral reserve.
The database used to estimate the Bornite Project mineral resources was audited by an independent consultant, Jack Cote, and the results of the audit reviewed by BDRC. BDRC is of the opinion that the current drilling information is sufficiently reliable to interpret with confidence the boundaries for copper mineralization and that the assay data are sufficiently reliable to support mineral resource estimation.
The resource estimate has been generated from drill hole sample assay results and the interpretation of a geologic model which relates to the spatial distribution of copper. Interpolation characteristics have been defined based on the geology, drill hole spacing and geostatistical analysis of the data. The resources have been classified by their proximity to the sample locations and are reported, as required by NI 43-101, according to the CIM standards on Mineral Resources and Reserves.
Bornite Project - Mineral Resource Statement
Mineral Resources are classified in accordance with the 2010 CIM Definition Standards for Mineral Resources and Mineral Reserves.
The Qualified Person for the Mineral Resource estimate is Bruce Davis a Qualified Person independent of NovaCopper. Mineral Resources for the Bornite Project are found in Tables 6, 7 and 8.
Table 6: Ruby Creek Zone Resource Estimation at Bornite - Indicated
See “Cautionary Note to United States Investors.” This section uses the term “indicated resources”. We advise United States investors that this term is not recognized by the SEC. United States investors are cautioned not to assume that estimates of indicated mineral resources are economically minable, or will be upgraded into measured mineral resources. See “Risk Factors” and “Cautionary Note to United States Investors.”
Notes:
Base Case is 0.5% Cu cut-off grade
Mineral resources are not mineral reserves and do not have demonstrated economic viability. There is no certainty that all or any part of the mineral resources will be converted into mineral reserves. See “Risk Factors” and “Cautionary Note to United States Investors.”
Resources stated as contained within a manually constructed potentially economic resource limiting pit shell using metal price of US$3.00 per lb Cu, mining costs of US$1.50 per tonne, processing costs of US$10.00 per tonne, 100% recoveries and an average pit slope of 45 degrees.
Mineral resource tonnage and contained metal have been rounded to reflect the accuracy of the estimate, and numbers may not add due to rounding. Tonnage is in metric units. Contained copper pounds as imperial pounds. See “Risk Factors” and “Cautionary Note to United States Investors.”
The mineral resources for the project have been estimated to conform to the requirements of CIM (2010). There are no known factors related to environmental, permitting, legal, title, taxation, socio-economic, marketing or political issues which could materially affect the mineral resource.
Table 7: Ruby Creek Zone Resource Estimation at Bornite - Inferred
See “Cautionary Note to United States Investors” This section uses the term “inferred resources”. We advise United States investors that this term is not recognized by the SEC. The estimation of inferred resources involves far greater uncertainty as to their existence and economic viability than the estimation of other categories of resources. United States investors are cautioned not to assume that estimates of inferred mineral resources exist, are economically minable, or will be upgraded into measured or indicated mineral resources. See “Risk Factors” and “Cautionary Note to United States Investors”.
Notes:
Base Case is 0.5% Cu cut-off grade
Mineral resources are not mineral reserves and do not have demonstrated economic viability. There is no certainty that all or any part of the mineral resources will be converted into mineral reserves. See “Risk Factors” and “Cautionary Note to United States Investors.”
Resources stated as contained within a manually constructed potentially economic resource limiting pit shell using metal price of US$3.00 per lb Cu, mining costs of US$1.50 per tonne, processing costs of US$10.00 per tonne, 100% recoveries and an average pit slope of 45 degrees.
Mineral resource tonnage and contained metal have been rounded to reflect the accuracy of the estimate, and numbers may not add due to rounding. Tonnage is in metric units. Contained copper pounds as imperial pounds.
The mineral resources for the project have been estimated to conform to the requirements of CIM (2010). There are no known factors related to environmental, permitting, legal, title, taxation, socio-economic, marketing or political issues which could materially affect the mineral resource.
Table 8: South Reek Zone Resource Estimation at Bornite - Inferred
See “Cautionary Note to United States Investors” This section uses the term “inferred resources”. We advise United States investors that this term is not recognized by the SEC. The estimation of inferred resources involves far greater uncertainty as to their existence and economic viability than the estimation of other categories of resources. United States investors are cautioned not to assume that estimates of inferred mineral resources exist, are economically minable, or will be upgraded into measured or indicated mineral resources. See “Risk Factors” and “Cautionary Note to United States Investors”.
Notes:
Base Case is 1.0% Cu cut-off grade
Mineral resources are not mineral reserves and do not have demonstrated economic viability. There is no certainty that all or any part of the mineral resources will be converted into mineral reserves. See “Risk Factors” and “Cautionary Note to United States Investors.”
Resources stated at a 1% cut-off are considered as potentially economically viable in an underground mining scenario based on an assumed projected copper price of US$2.75/lb and total site operating costs of US$60.00/tonne
Mineral resource tonnage and contained metal have been rounded to reflect the accuracy of the estimate, and numbers may not add due to rounding. Tonnage is in metric units. Contained copper pounds as imperial pounds.
The mineral resources for the project have been estimated to conform to the requirements of CIM (2010). There are no known factors related to environmental, permitting, legal, title, taxation, socio-economic, marketing or political issues which could materially affect the mineral resource.
Bornite Project - Metallurgy
NovaGold did not sample any drill core for metallurgical test work in 2011. Kennecott composited 32 crushed (coarse reject) AX core samples from 5 surface holes for metallurgic float tests in 1961. The core samples were from the high grade No.1 Ore Body and averaged 13.9% Cu.
In late 2012, NovaCopper requested an initial metallurgical evaluation on a series of varying grade composites developed from the South Reef zone. Four composites reflecting low-grade (0.5 -1.0% Cu), medium-grade (1.0 -2.0% Cu), high-grade (2.0 -10.0% Cu), and very high-grade (>10.0% Cu) copper have been submitted to ALS Chemex Labs Ltd. in Vancouver, British Columbia and G&T Metallurgical Services Ltd. in Kelowna, British Columbia for analysis. Results are not yet available.
Bornite Project - Exploration and Development Permitting
Development of the Bornite Project will require a significant number of permits and authorizations from state, federal, and regional organizations. Much of the groundwork to support a successful permitting effort must be undertaken prior to submission of permit applications so that issues can be identified and resolved, baseline data can be acquired, and regulators and stakeholders can become familiar with the proposed project.
The comprehensive permitting process for the Bornite Project can be divided into three categories:
1.
Exploration state/regional permitting: required to obtain approval for drilling, camp operations, engineering, and environmental baseline studies.
2.
Pre-application phase: conducted in conjunction with engineering feasibility studies. This stage includes the collection of environmental baseline data and interaction with stakeholders and regulators to facilitate the development of a project that can be successfully permitted.
3.
The National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) phase: formal agency review of the Federal and State requirements for public and agency participation to determine if and how the Project can be done in an acceptable manner.
Multiple permits are required during the exploration phase of the Bornite Project. The Annual Hardrock Exploration Permit (AHEA) issued by ADNR's Division of Mining, Land, and Water is a multi-year permit that is valid for up to five years. The AHEA is a multi-agency permit that includes various Nationwide Permits issued by the COE, a Title 16 Fish Habitat Permit issued by the ADF&G, a Temporary Water Use Permit issued by the ADNR, and a mining license issued by the ADOR. NovaCopper has retained a valid AHEA permit since 2011. The EPA requires a Spill Prevention, Control, and Countermeasures (SPCC) plan for bulk fuel storage of greater than 1,320 gallons. NovaCopper has retained a valid SPCC plan since 2010. Due to the location of the Project within the Northwest Arctic Borough, several Title 9 Miscellaneous Land Use permits are required, including permits for mineral exploration, bulk fuel storage, use of airstrips, and establishment of camps. NovaCopper has retained Title 9 Permits since 2004. A number of statutory reporting obligations and payments are required to maintain the claims in good standing on annual basis.
Under the NANA Agreement, NANA is required to complete a baseline environmental report following completion of cleanup of the former mining camp on the Bornite lands, to the standards required by the Alaska Department of Environmental Conservation. This includes removal and disposal as required by law of all hazardous substances present at the Bornite Project. NANA has indemnified us and will hold us harmless for any loss, cost, expense or damage suffered or incurred attributable to the environmental condition of the Bornite lands at the date of the baseline report which relate to any activities prior to the date of the agreement.
In addition, there are no indications of any known environmental impairment or enforcement actions associated with NovaGold’s or our activities to date. As a result, neither NovaGold nor we have incurred outstanding environmental liabilities in conjunction with its entry into the NANA Agreement.
Bornite Project - Environmental Considerations
We have initiated environmental baseline data collection with respect to the Bornite Project. The general discussion herein regarding environmental considerations and the Arctic Project is applicable to the Bornite Project as well. (See “Arctic Project - Environmental Considerations”).
Bornite Project - Recent Developments
The 2012 Bornite drilling program has been focused on further defining the South Reef Zone which was identified as a significant potential high grade resource area during the 2011 exploration drilling program where three holes (DDH’s RC11-0187, RC11-0192 and RC11-0194) intersected significant high grade intersections of copper mineralization. As of November 2012, we completed drilling of 22 holes, comprising approximately 15,457 meters, at the South Reef zone, which are included above and incorporated into the recently release South Reef zone resource estimation.
Drilling at South Reef has outlined a 300 meter by 700 meter northeast trending zone of mineralization. Copper mineralization remains open to the northwest, north, northeast and south.
Item 3.