Item 2. PROPERTIES
The following descriptions summarize selected information about our Upper Kobuk Mineral Projects, which are located in the Ambler mining district of Alaska and include the Arctic Project and the Bornite Project. All of the UKMP Projects are without known reserves, as defined under SEC Industry Guide 7, and all proposed programs for the properties are exploratory in nature.
Arctic Project, Ambler Mining District, Alaska
Technical information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K regarding the Arctic Project is derived from the 2018 Arctic Report. The following summary is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the 2018 Arctic Report. Investors are directed to review the full text of the 2018 Arctic Report, available for review on our profile on SEDAR at www.sedar.com and on the SEC’s EDGAR website at www.sec.gov, for additional information. Capitalized terms used in this section but not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings set out in the 2018 Arctic Report. See “Cautionary Note to United States Investors.”
Introduction
We commissioned Ausenco Engineering Canada Inc. (“Ausenco”) to compile the 2018 Arctic Report, a technical report on the results of a Pre-Feasibility Study on the Arctic deposit, part of the Arctic Project in the Ambler mining district of Northwest Alaska.
The firms and consultants who are providing Qualified Persons responsible for the content of the 2018 Arctic Report, which is based on the Pre-Feasibility Study completed in 2018 (the “2018 PFS”) and supporting documents prepared for the 2018 PFS, are, in alphabetical order, Amec Foster Wheeler Americas Ltd. (“Amec Foster Wheeler”); BD Resource Consulting, Inc., (“BDRC”); SRK Consulting (Canada) Inc. (“SRK”), and SIM Geological Inc.
Management Property Description and Location
The Arctic Project is located in the Ambler mining district of the southern Brooks Range, in the Northwest Arctic Borough (“ NWAB”) of Alaska. The property is geographically isolated with no current road access or nearby power infrastructure. The Arctic Project is located 270 km east of the town of Kotzebue, 36 km north of the village of Kobuk, and 260 km west of the Dalton Highway, an all-weather state-maintained highway.
NovaGold acquired the Arctic Project from Kennecott Exploration Company and Kennecott Arctic Company (collectively, “Kennecott”) in 2004. In 2012, NovaGold transferred all copper projects to NovaCopper Inc. NovaCopper Inc. subsequently underwent a name change to Trilogy Metals Inc. in 2016. The Arctic Project comprises approximately 46,336 ha of State of Alaska mining claims and U.S. Federal patented mining claims in the Kotzebue Recording District. The Arctic Project land tenure consists of 1,386 contiguous claims, including 883 40-acre State claims, 503 160-acre State claims, and 18 Federal patented claims comprising 272 acres (110 ha) held in the name of NovaCopper US Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of Trilogy.
Surface use of the private land held as Federal patented claims is limited only by reservations in the patents and by generally-applicable environmental laws. Surface use of State claims allows the owner of the mining claim to make such use of the surface as is “necessary for prospecting for, extraction of, or basic processing of minerals.”
Under the Kennecott Purchase and Termination Agreement, Kennecott retained a 1% net smelter return (“NSR”) royalty that is purchasable at any time by Trilogy for a one-time payment of $10 million.
NANA controls lands granted under the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (ANCSA) to the south of the Arctic Project boundary. Trilogy and NANA have entered into the NANA Agreement that consolidates Trilogy’s and NANA’s land holdings into an approximately 142,831 ha land package and provides a framework for the exploration and development of the area. The NANA Agreement has a term of 20 years, with an option in favour of Trilogy to extend the term for an additional 10 years. If, following receipt of a feasibility study and the release for public comment of a related draft environmental impact statement, Trilogy decides to proceed with construction of a mine on the lands subject to the NANA Agreement, NANA will have 120 days to elect to either (a) exercise a non-transferrable back-in-right to acquire between 16% and 25% (as specified by NANA) of that specific project; or (b) not exercise its back-in-right, and instead receive a net proceeds royalty equal to 15% of the net proceeds realized by Trilogy from such project. In the event that NANA elects to exercise its back-in-right, the parties will, as soon as reasonably practicable, form a joint venture with NANA electing to participate between 16% to 25%, and Trilogy owning the balance of the interest in the joint venture. If Trilogy decides to proceed with construction of a mine on its own lands subject to the NANA Agreement, NANA will enter into a surface use agreement with Trilogy which will afford Trilogy access to the Arctic Project along routes approved by NANA. In consideration for the grant of such surface use rights, Trilogy will grant NANA a 1% net smelter royalty on production and provide an annual payment on a per acre basis.
Trilogy has entered into the South 32 Option Agreement whereby South32 has the right to form a 50/50 Joint Venture with respect to the Trilogy’s Alaskan assets including the Arctic Project. Upon exercise of the option, Trilogy will transfer its Alaskan assets, including the Arctic Project, and South32 will contribute a minimum of $150 million, to a newly formed joint venture.
Geology and Mineralization
The Arctic deposit is considered to be a polymetallic VMS deposit containing copper, lead, zinc, gold and silver mineralized material.
The Ambler mining district is located on the southern margin of the Brooks Range. Within the VMS belt, several deposits and prospects (including the Arctic deposit) are hosted in the Ambler Sequence, a group of Middle Devonian to Early Mississippian, metamorphosed, bimodal volcanic rocks with interbedded tuffaceous, graphitic, and calcareous volcaniclastic metasediments. The Ambler sequence occurs in the upper part of the regional Anirak Schist. VMS-style mineralization is found along the entire 110 km strike length of the district.
Stratigraphically, the Ambler Sequence consists of variably metamorphosed calc-turbidites, overlain by calcareous schists with irregularly distributed mafic sills and pillow lavas. These are overlain by the Arctic-sulphide host section which consists mainly of fine-grained, carbonaceous siliciclastic rocks which are in turn overlain by reworked silicic volcanic rocks, including meta-rhyolite porphyries and most notably the regionally extensive Button Schist with its characteristically large relic phenocrysts. Greywacke sandstones, interpreted to be turbidites, occur throughout the section but are concentrated higher in the stratigraphy. Several rock units within the stratigraphy show substantial variation in local thickness as a consequence of basin morphology at the time of deposition.
Alteration at the Arctic deposit is characterized by magnesium alteration, primarily as talc, chlorite, and phengite alteration products associated with the sulphide-bearing horizons and continuing in the footwall. Stratigraphically above the sulphide-bearing horizons, significant muscovite as paragonite is developed and results in a marked shift in Na/Mg (sodium/magnesium) ratios across the sulphide bearing horizons.
Mineralization occurs as stratiform semi-massive sulphide (“SMS”) to massive sulphide (“MS”) beds within primarily graphitic chlorite schists and fine-grained quartz sandstones. The sulphide beds average 4 m in thickness but vary from less than 1 m up to as much as 18 m in thickness.
The bulk of the mineralization occurs within eight modelled SMS and MS zones lying along the upper and lower limbs of the Arctic isoclinal anticline. All of the zones are within an area of roughly 1 km2 with mineralization extending to a depth of approximately 250 m below the surface. Mineralization is predominately coarse-grained sulphides consisting mainly of chalcopyrite, sphalerite, galena, tetrahedrite-tennantite, pyrite, arsenopyrite, and pyrrhotite. Trace amounts of electrum are also present.
Drilling and Sampling
Drilling at the Arctic deposit and within the Ambler mining district has been ongoing since its initial discovery in 1967. Approximately 56,480 m of drilling has been completed within the Ambler mining district, including 39,323 m of drilling in 174 drill holes at the Arctic deposit or on potential extensions in 27 campaigns spanning 50 years. Drill programs were completed by Kennecott and its subsidiaries, Anaconda, and Trilogy and its predecessor companies.
Core recoveries are acceptable. Geological and geotechnical logging is in line with industry generally-accepted practices. Drill collar and downhole survey data were collected using industry-recognized instrumentation and methods.
Between 2004 and 2006, NovaGold conducted a systematic drill core re-logging and re-sampling campaign of Kennecott and BCMC era drill holes. NovaGold either took 1 to 2 m samples every 10 m, or sampled entire lengths of previously unsampled core within a minimum of 1 m and a maximum of 3 m intervals. During the Trilogy campaigns, sample intervals were determined by the geological relationships observed in the core and limited to a 3 m maximum length and 1 m minimum length. An attempt was made to terminate sample intervals at lithological and mineralization boundaries. Sampling was generally continuous from the top to the bottom of the drill hole. When the hole was in unmineralized rock, the sample length was generally 3 m, whereas in mineralized units, the sample length was shortened to 1 to 2 m.
Gold assays were determined using fire analysis followed by an atomic absorption spectroscopy finish. An additional 49-element suite was assayed by inductively coupled plasma-mass spectroscopy methodology, following nitric acid aqua regia digestion. The copper, zinc, lead, and silver analyses were completed by AA, following a triple acid digest, when overlimits.
Standard reference materials, blanks, duplicates and check samples have been regularly submitted at a combined level of 20% of sampling submissions for all NovaGold/NovaCopper/Trilogy era campaigns. BDRC reviewed the QA/QC dataset and reports and found the sample insertion rate and the timeliness of results analysis meets or exceeds industry best practices.
SG measurements have been conducted on 3,023 samples in the database and range from a minimum of 2.43 to a maximum of 4.99 and average 3.08. The distribution of SG data is considered sufficient to support estimation in the resource model.
An aerial LIDAR survey was completed to support pre-feasibility level resource estimation, engineering design, environmental studies, and infrastructure layout evaluations. Agreement between surveyed drill hole collar elevations and a LIDAR topographic surface verifies the correctness of the digital topography for use in estimation.
It was concluded that the drill database and topographic surface for the Arctic deposit is reliable and sufficient to support the current estimate of mineral resources.
Mineral Processing and Metallurgical Testing
Since 1970, metallurgical test work has been conducted to determine the flotation response of various samples extracted from the Arctic deposit. In general, the samples tested produced similar metallurgical performances. In 2012, SGS Mineral Services conducted a metallurgical test program to further study metallurgical responses of the samples produced from Zones 1, 2, 3, and 5 of the Arctic deposit. The flotation test procedures used talc pre-flotation, conventional copper-lead bulk flotation and zinc flotation, followed by copper and lead separation. In general, the 2012 test results indicated that the samples responded well to the flowsheet tested. The average results of the locked cycle tests (without copper and lead separation) were as follows:
· The copper recoveries to the bulk copper-lead concentrates ranged from 89 to 93% excluding the Zone 1 & 2 composite which produced a copper recovery of approximately 84%; the copper grades of the bulk concentrates were 24 to 28%.
· Approximately 92 to 94% of the lead was recovered to the bulk copper-lead concentrates containing 9 to 13% lead.
· The zinc recovery was 84.2% from Composite Zone 1 & 2, 93.0% from Composite Zone 3 and 90.5% from Composite Zone 5. On average, the zinc grades of the concentrates produced were higher than 55%, excluding the concentrate generated from Composite Zone 1 & 2, which contained only 44.5% zinc.
· Gold and silver were predominantly recovered into the bulk copper-lead concentrates. Gold recoveries to this concentrate ranged from 65 to 80%, and silver recoveries ranged from 80 to 86%.
Using an open circuit procedure, the copper and lead separation tests on the bulk copper-lead concentrate produced from the locked cycle tests generated reasonable copper and lead separation. The copper concentrates produced contained approximately 28 to 31% copper, while the grades of the lead concentrates were in the range of 41% to 67% lead. In this test work program, it appeared that most of the gold reported to the copper concentrate and on average the silver was equally recovered into the copper and lead concentrates. Subsequent test work to better define the copper and lead separation process was conducted in 2017, including a more detailed evaluation of the precious metal deportment in the copper and lead separation process.
The 2012 grindability test results showed that the Bond ball millwork index (BWi) tests ranged from 6.5 to 11 kWh/t and abrasion index (Ai) tests fluctuated from 0.017 to 0.072 g for the mineralized samples. The data indicate that the samples are neither resistant nor abrasive to ball mill grinding. The materials are considered to be soft or very soft in terms of grinding requirements.
In 2017, ALS Metallurgy conducted detailed copper and lead separation flotation test work using a bulk sample of copper-lead concentrate produced from the operation of a pilot plant. This test work confirmed high lead recoveries in locked cycle testing of the copper-lead separation process and confirmed precious metal recoveries into the representative copper and lead concentrates. This test work indicated a clear tendency of the gold values to follow the lead concentrate, giving it a significant gold grade and value.
The conclusions of test work conducted both in 2012 and 2017 indicate that the Arctic materials are well-suited to the production of high-quality copper and zinc concentrates using flotation techniques which are industry standard. Copper and zinc recovery data is reported in the range of 91 to 89% respectively, which reflects the high grade nature of the deposit as well as the coarse grained nature of these minerals. Lead concentrates have the potential to be of high quality and can also be impacted by zones of very high talc contents which has the potential to dilute lead concentrate grades. The lead concentrate is also shown to be rich in precious metals, which has some advantages in terms of marketability of this material.
An overall metallurgical balance for the Arctic Project is summarized in Table 1-1. This table of metal recoveries is based on an expected average recovery over the entire resource based on grades and detailed results of metallurgical test work conducted in 2012 and 2017.
Table 1: Summary of Overall Metal Recovery - Arctic Project
Mineral Resource Estimate
The mineral resource estimate has been prepared by Robert Sim, P.Geo. SIM Geological Inc. and Bruce M. Davis, FAusIMM, BD Resource Consulting, Inc.
Mineral resource estimates are made from a 3D block model based on geostatistical applications using commercial mine planning software (MineSight® v11.60-2). The block model has a nominal block size measuring 10 x 10 x 5 m and utilizes data derived from 152 drill holes in the vicinity of the Arctic deposit. The resource estimate was generated using drill hole sample assay results and the interpretation of a geological model which relates to the spatial distribution of copper, lead, zinc, gold and silver. Interpolation characteristics were defined based on the geology, drill hole spacing, and geostatistical analysis of the data. The effects of potentially anomalous high-grade sample data, composited to two metre intervals, are controlled by limiting the distance of influence during block grade interpolation. The grade models have been validated using a combination of visual and statistical methods. The resources were classified according to their proximity to the sample data locations and are reported, as required by NI 43-101, according to the CIM Definition Standards for Mineral Resources and Mineral Reserves. Model blocks estimated by three or more drill holes spaced at a maximum distance of 100 metres are included in the Indicated category. Inferred blocks are within a maximum distance of 150 metres from a drill hole. The estimate of Indicated and Inferred mineral resources is within a limiting pit shell derived using projected technical and economic parameters.
Table 2: Summary of Overall Metal Recovery - Arctic Project
Notes:
(1) Resources stated as contained within a pit shell developed using metal prices of US$3.00/lb Cu, $0.90/lb Pb, $1.00/lb Zn, $1300/oz Au and $18/oz Ag and metallurgical recoveries of 92% Cu, 77% Pb, 88% Zn, 63% Au and 56% Ag and operating costs of $3/t mining and $35/t process and G&A. The average pit slope is 43 degrees.
(2) The base case cut-off grade is 0.5% copper equivalent. CuEq = (Cu%x0.92)+(Zn%x0.290)+(Pb%x0.231)+(Augptx0.398)+(Aggptx0.005).
(3) The Mineral Resource Estimate is reported on a 100% basis without adjustments for metallurgical recoveries.
(4)
The Mineral Resource Estimate is inclusive of Mineral Reserves. Mineral Resources are not Mineral Reserves and do not have demonstrated economic viability. There is no certainty that all or any part of the Mineral Resources will be converted into Mineral Reserves.
(5) Inferred resources have a great amount of uncertainty as to whether they can be mined legally or economically. It is reasonably expected that a majority of Inferred resources will be converted to Indicated resources with additional exploration.
(6) Effective date of the Mineral Resource Estimate is April 25, 2017.
(7) See “Cautionary Note to United States Investors”.
Mining Reserves and Mining Methods
The Arctic Project is designed as a conventional truck-shovel operation assuming 131 t trucks for waste and 91 t trucks for ore, as well as 17 m3 and 12 m3 shovels for waste and ore respectively. The pit design includes three nested phases to balance stripping requirements while satisfying the concentrator requirements.
The design parameters include a ramp width of 28.5 m, in-pit road grades of 8% and out-pit road grades of 10%, bench height of 5 m, targeted mining width between 70 and 100 m, berm interval of 15 m, variable slope angles by sector and a minimum mining width of 30 m.
The smoothed final pit design contains approximately 43 Mt of ore and 296 Mt of waste for a resulting stripping ratio of 6.9:1. Within the 43 Mt of ore, the average grades are 2.32% Cu, 3.24% Zn, 0.57 % Pb, 0.49 g/t Au and 36.0 g/t Ag.
The Mineral Reserve estimates are shown in Table 1-3.
Table 3: Mineral Reserve Estimate for the Arctic Deposit
Notes:
(1) Mineral Reserves are estimated assuming open pit mining methods and include a combination of planned and contact dilution.
(2) Mineral Reserves are based on prices of $2.90/lb Cu, $0.90/lb Pb, $1.10/lb Zn, $1250/oz Au and $18/oz Ag. Fixed process recoveries of 90.0% Cu, 89.9% Pb, 91.7% Zn, 61.1% Au and 49.7% Ag
(3) Mining costs: $3.00/t incremented at $0.02/t/15 m and $0.015/t/1.5 m below and above 710 m elevation respectively.
(4) Processing costs: $36.55/t. Include process cost: $19.86/t, G&A: $8.92/t, sustaining capital: $4.11/t closure cost: $1.00/t, and road toll: $2.66/t.
(5) Treatment costs of $70/t Cu concentrate, $180/t Pb concentrate and $300/t Zn concentrate. Refining costs of $0.07/lb Cu, $10/oz Au, $0.60/oz Ag. Transport cost of $149.96/t concentrate.
(6) Fixed royalty percentage of 1%.
(7) The Qualified Person for the Mineral Reserves is Antonio Peralta Romero P.Eng., an Amec Foster Wheeler employee who visited the project site in July 25, 2017 as part of the data verification process.
(8) The effective date of mineral reserves estimate is October 10, 2017.
The scheduling constraints set the maximum mining capacity at 32 Mt/year and the maximum process capacity at 10 kt/day. The production schedule results in a life of mine (“LOM”) of 12 years. The mine will require two years of pre-production before the start of operations in the processing plant.
Recovery Methods
The 10,000 t/d process plant design is conventional for the industry, will operate two 12 hour shifts per day, 365 d/a with an overall plant availability of 92%. The process plant will produce three concentrates: 1) copper concentrate, 2) zinc concentrate, and 3) lead concentrate. Gold and silver are expected to be payable at a smelter and are recovered in both the copper and lead concentrates.
The mill feed will be hauled from the open pit to a primary crushing facility where the material will be crushed by a jaw crusher to a particle size of 80% passing 125 mm.
The crushed material will be ground by two stages of grinding, consisting of one SAG mill and one ball mill in closed circuit with hydrocyclones (SAB circuit). The hydrocyclone overflow with a grind size of approximately 80% passing 70 pm will first undergo talc pre-flotation, and then be processed by conventional bulk flotation (to recover copper, lead, and associated gold and silver), followed by zinc flotation. The rougher bulk concentrate will be cleaned and followed by copper and lead separation to produce a lead concentrate and a copper concentrate. The final tailings from the zinc flotation circuit will be pumped to a tailings management facility (“TMF”). Copper, lead, and zinc concentrates will be thickened and pressure-filtered before being transported by truck to a port and shipped to smelters.
The LOM average mill feed is expected to contain 2.32% Cu, 3.24% Zn, 0.57% Pb, 0.49 g/t Au, and 35.98 g/t Ag. Based on the mine plan developed for the PFS and metallurgical test work results, the LOM average metal recoveries and concentrate grades will be:
· Copper concentrate:
o recovery: 90.0% copper; 11.8% gold; 35.0% silver
o copper grade: 30.3%
· Lead concentrate:
o recovery: 80.0% lead; 61.1% gold; 49.7% silver
o lead grade: 55.0%
· Zinc concentrate:
o recovery: 91.7% zinc
o zinc grade: 59.2%.
The average annual dry concentrate production is estimated as follows:
· Copper concentrate: 246,723 t/a
· Lead concentrate: 29,493 t/a
· Zinc concentrate: 180,219 t/a.
Project Infrastructure
The Arctic project site is a remote, greenfields site that requires construction of its own infrastructure to support the mining operation.
The Arctic Project site will be accessed through a combination of State of Alaska owned highways (existing), an AIDEA owned private road (proposed) and Trilogy owned access roads (proposed). The AMDIAP road is proposed by AIDEA to connect the Ambler mining district to the Dalton Highway. The AMDIAP road is being permitted as a private road with restricted access for industrial use. To connect the Arctic Project site and the existing exploration camp to the proposed AMDIAP road a 30.7 km access road (the Arctic access road) will need to be built.
The State of Alaska owned public Dahl Creek Airport will require upgrades to support the planned regular transportation of crews to and from Fairbanks. Power generation will be by six LNG generators, producing a supply voltage of 4.16 kV. The total connected load will be 17.5 MW with an average power draw of 12.6 MW. LNG will be supplied via existing fuel supply networks near Port Mackenzie, Alaska.
The Arctic Project will require three different self-contained camps, equipped with their own power and heat generation capabilities, water treatment plant, sewage treatment plant, and garbage incinerator. The existing exploration camp will be used to start the construction of the Arctic access road. A construction camp will be constructed at the intersection of the AMDIAP road and Arctic access road, and will be decommissioned once construction is complete. The permanent camp will be constructed along the Arctic access road, closer to the planned processing facility. The permanent camp will be constructed ahead of operations to support the peak accommodation requirements during construction.
Infrastructure that will be required for the mining and processing operations will include:
· Open pit mine
· Stockpiles and waste rock facilities
· Gatehouse
·
Truck workshop, truck wash, mine offices, mine dry facility and warehouse
·
Administration building
·
Mill dry facility
· Plant workshop and warehouse
·
Primary crushing building
·
Fine ore stockpile building
· Process plant and laboratory
· Concentrate loadout building
· Reagent storage and handling building
· Raw water supply building.
· Tailings management facility
· Diversion and collection channels, culverts, and containment structures
· Waste rock collection pond
· Water treatment plants.
On-site communications comprise of inter-connected mobile and fixed systems, including landline telephone network, radios and internet.
Compressed air will be supplied by screw compressors and a duty plant air receiver. Fire protection will be supported by a firewater distribution network and standpipe systems, water mist systems, sprinkler systems, and portable fire extinguishers. Gas detection will be provided to detect dangerous levels of LNG gas within the generator room.
A large waste rock dump (WRD) will be developed north of the Arctic pit in the upper part of the Arctic Valley. The waste rock storage facility will be designed to store both waste rock and tailings in adjacent footprints. The total volume of waste rock is expected to be 145.6 Mm3 (296 Mt), however there is potential for expanded volume in the waste if placement density is less than 2.0 t/m3. The dump will have a final height of 245 m to an elevation of 890 masl and is planned to be constructed in 20 m lifts with intermediary bench widths at 23.5 m on average at the dump face, to achieve an overall slope of 2.7H:1V. Most of the waste rock is anticipated to be potentially acid-generating (PAG) and there will be no separation of waste based on acid generation potential. Rather, seepage from the WRD will be collected and treated.
There will also be two small overburden stockpiles to store the stripped topsoil and overburden from the TMF footprint. The topsoil stockpile will be placed in between the haul roads and will store up to 225,000 m3 of material while the overburden stockpile will be located below the lower haul road between the pit and the mill site with storage capacity up to 650,000 m3.
The tailings management facility (TMF) will be located at the headwaters of the Sub-Arctic Creek, in the upper-most portion of the creek valley. The 58.6 ha footprint of the TMF will be fully lined with an impermeable liner (HDPE). Tailings containment will be provided by an engineered dam that will be buttressed by the WRD constructed immediately downstream of the TMF and the natural topography on the valley sides. A starter dam will be constructed to elevation 830 m. Three subsequent raises will bring the final dam crest elevation to 890 m, which is the same as the final elevation of the waste rock dump. The TMF is designed to store approximately 27.3 Mm3 (38.7 Mt) of tailings plus 3.0 Mm3 of water produced over the 12 year mine life as well as the probable maximum flood event and still provide 2m of freeboard.
The tailings delivery system pipeline will transport slurried tailings from processing plant to the TMF. The delivery system will be sized initially on the basis of a 10 kt/d operation. This pipeline will transport 1,050 m3/h of tailings to the TMF. The return water delivery system for recycle water from the TMF has been sized on the basis of 770 m3/h of water being pumped from the TMF to the process water pond, for the 10 kt/d operation.
The proposed mine development is located in valley of Sub-Arctic Creek, a tributary to the Shungnak River. A surface water management system will be constructed to segregate contact and non-contact water. Non-contact water will be diverted around mine infrastructure to Sub-Arctic Creek. Contact water will be conveyed to treatment facilities prior to discharge to the receiving environment.
Market Studies
Trilogy provided Ausenco with the metal price projections for use in the Pre-Feasibility Study on which the Technical Report is based. Trilogy established the pricing using a combination of two year trailing actual metal prices, and market research and bank analyst forward price projections, prepared in early 2018 by Jim Vice of StoneHouse Consulting Inc.
The long-term consensus metal price assumptions to be used in the Pre-Feasibility Study are:
· Copper: $3.00/lb
· Lead: $1.00/lb
· Zinc: $1.10/lb
· Gold: $1,300/oz
· Silver: $18.00/oz
Smelter terms were applied for the delivery of copper, zinc and lead concentrate. It was assumed that delivery of all concentrates would be to an East Asian smelter at currently available freight rates. These terms are considered to be in line with current market conditions. Total transport costs for the concentrate are estimated at $270.37/dmt.
Environmental, Permitting, Social and Closure Considerations
Environmental Considerations
The Arctic Project area includes the Ambler lowlands and Subarctic Creek within the Shungnak River drainage. To date, a moderate amount of baseline environmental data collection has occurred in the area including surface water quality sampling, surface hydrology monitoring, wetlands mapping, stream flow monitoring, aquatic life surveys, avian and mammal habitat surveys, cultural resource surveys, hydrogeology studies, meteorological monitoring, and acid base accounting studies.
Permitting Considerations
Trilogy performs mineral exploration at the Arctic deposit under State of Alaska and Northwest Arctic Borough (NWAB) permits. Trilogy is presently operating under a State of Alaska Miscellaneous Land Use Permit (APMA permit) that expires at the end of 2022.
Mine development permitting will be largely driven by the underlying land ownership; regulatory authorities vary depending on land ownership. The Arctic Project area includes patented mining claims (private land under separate ownership by Trilogy and NANA), State of Alaska land, and NANA land (private land). The open pit would situate mostly on patented land while the mill, tailings and waste rock facilities would be largely on State land. Other facilities, such as the camps, would be on NANA land. Federal land would likely be part of any access road between the Dalton Highway and the Arctic Project area. Permits associated with such an access road are being investigated in a separate action by the State of Alaska.
Because the Arctic Project is situated to a large extent on State land, it will likely be necessary to obtain a Plan of Operation Approval (which includes the Reclamation Plan) from the ADNR. The Arctic Project will also require certificates to construct and then operate a dam(s) (tailings and water storage) from the ADNR (Dam Safety Unit) as well as water use authorizations, an upland mining lease and a mill site lease, as well as several minor permits including those that authorize access to construction material sites from ADNR.
The Alaska Department of Environmental Conservation (“ADEC”) would authorize waste management under an integrated waste management permit, air emissions during construction and then operations under an air permit, and require an APDES permit for any wastewater discharges to surface waters, and a Multi-Sector General Permit for stormwater discharges. The ADEC would also be required to review the USACE Section 404 permit to certify that it complies with Section 401 of the CWA.
The Alaska Department of Fish and Game would have to authorize any culverts or bridges that are required to cross fish-bearing streams or other impacts to fish-bearing streams that result in the loss of fish habitat.
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (“USACE”) would require a CWA Section 404 permit for dredging and filling activities in Waters of the United States including jurisdictional wetlands. The USACE Section 404 permitting action would require the USACE to comply with the Natural Environmental Policy Act (“NEPA”) and, for a project of this magnitude, the development of an EIS. The USACE would likely be the lead federal agency for the NEPA process. As part of the Section 404 permitting process, the Arctic Project will have to meet USACE wetlands guidelines to avoid, minimize and mitigate impacts to wetlands.
The Arctic Project will also have to obtain approval for a Master Plan from the NWAB. In addition, actions will have to be taken to change the borough zoning for the Arctic Project area from Subsistence Conservation to Resource Development.
The overall timeline required for permitting would be largely driven by the time required for the NEPA process, which is triggered by the submission of the 404 permit application to the US Army Corp of Engineers. The timeline includes the development and publication of a draft and final EIS and ends with a Record of Decision, and 404-permit issuance. In Alaska, the EIS and other State and Federal permitting processes are generally coordinated so that permitting and environmental review occurs in parallel. The NEPA process could require between 1.5 to three years to complete, and could potentially take longer.
Social Considerations
The Arctic Project is located approximately 40 km northeast of the native villages of Shungnak and Kobuk, and 64 km east-northeast of the native village of Ambler. The population in these villages range from 156 in Kobuk (2016 Census) to 262 in Shungnak (2016 Census) to 284 in Ambler (2017 DCCED certified population). Residents live a largely subsistence lifestyle with incomes supplemented by trapping, guiding, local development projects, government aid and other work in, and outside of, the villages.
The Arctic Project has the potential to significantly improve work opportunities for village residents. Trilogy is working directly with the villages to employ residents in the ongoing exploration program as geotechnicians, drill helpers, and environmental technicians. Trilogy and NANA have established a Workforce Development Committee to assist with developing a local workforce. In addition, Trilogy has existing contracts with native-affiliated companies (such as NANA Management Services and WHPacific Inc.) that are providing camp catering and environmental services for the Arctic Project, respectively.
Local community concerns will also be formally recognized during the development of the project EIS. Early in the EIS process, the lead federal permitting agency will hold scoping meetings in rural villages to hear and record the concerns of the local communities so that the more significant of these concerns can be addressed during the development of the EIS. In addition, the lead federal agency would have government-to-government consultations with the Tribal Councils in each of the villages, as part of the EIS process, to discuss the project and hear Council concerns.
Closure Planning
Mine reclamation and closure are largely driven by State regulations that specify that a mine must be reclaimed concurrent with mining operations to the greatest extent possible and then closed in a way that leaves the site stable in terms of erosion and avoids degradation of water quality from acid rock drainage or metal leaching on the site. A detailed reclamation plan will be submitted to the State agencies for review and approval in the future, during the formal mine permitting process.
Owing to the fact that the Arctic Project is likely to have facilities on a combination of private (patented mining claims and native land) and State land, it is likely that the reclamation plan will be submitted and approved as part of the plan of operations, which is approved by the ADNR. However, since the reclamation plan must meet regulations of both ADNR and the ADEC, both agencies will review and approve the Reclamation Plan. In addition, private land owners must formally concur with the portion of the reclamation plan for their lands so that it is compatible with their intended post-mining land use.
The estimate cost of closure is based on unit rates used by SRK. Long-term water treatment and maintenance of certain water management facilities were calculated separately, and an NPV is provided for the first 200 years, at a discount rate of 4.3%.
Reclamation costs have been estimated to be $65.3 million for this PFS, in 2017 undiscounted U.S. dollars. Annual costs associated with long-term operations of the water treatment plant are estimated to be about $1.27 million for the first five years and $0.96 million thereafter.
Capital Costs
The capital cost estimate uses U.S. dollars as the base currency. The total estimated initial capital cost for the design, construction, installation and commissioning of the Arctic Project is estimated to be $779.6 million. A summary of the estimated capital cost is shown in Table 1-4.
Table 4: Initial Capital Costs
The total sustaining capital cost estimate is $65.9 million for the 12 year LOM which includes equipment, tailings and other items. Closure costs were estimated to be $65.3 million. These costs are summarized in Table 1-5.
Table 5: Sustaining Capital and Closure Costs
Operating Costs
The operating cost estimates use U.S. dollars as the base currency. An average operating cost was estimated for the Arctic Project based on the proposed mining schedule. These costs included, mining, processing, G&A, surface services, and road toll costs. The average LOM operating cost for the Arctic Project is estimated to be $46.81/ t milled. The breakdown of costs in Table 1-6 is estimated based on the average LOM mill feed rate.
Table 6: Sustaining Capital and Closure Costs
*Excludes pre-production costs
Economic Analysis
An economic analysis was undertaken to determine the IRR, NPV and payback on initial investment of the Arctic Project. The Arctic Project consists of a three year pre-production construction period, followed by 12 years of production.
The results of this economic analysis represents forward-looking information. The results depend on the inputs that are subject to a number of known and unknown risks, uncertainties, and other factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from those presented in this section. Information that is forward looking includes mineral reserve estimates, commodity prices, the proposed mine production plan, construction schedule, projected recovery rates, proposed capital and operating cost estimates, closure cost estimates, toll road cost estimates, and assumptions on geotechnical, environmental, permitting, royalties, and hydrogeological information.
Ausenco developed a pre-tax cash flow model for the Arctic Project and the NPV and IRR were calculated at the beginning of the construction period in Year -3.
The pre-tax financial model incorporated the production schedule and smelter term assumptions to produce annual recovered payable metal, or gross revenue, in each concentrate stream by year. Off-site costs, including the applicable refining and treatment costs, penalties, concentrate transportation charges, marketing and representation fees, and royalties were then deducted from gross revenue to determine the NSR. The operating cash flow was then produced by deducting annual mining, processing, G&A, surface services, and road toll charges from the NSR. Initial and sustaining capital was deducted from the operating cash flow in the years they occur, to determine the net cash flow before taxes. Initial capital cost includes all estimated expenditures in the construction period, from Year -3 to Year -1 inclusive. First production occurs at the beginning of Year 1. Sustaining capital expenditure includes all capital expenditures purchased after first production, including mine closure and rehabilitation. The model includes an allocation of a 1% NSR attributable to NANA.
The pre-tax financial results are:
· 38.0% IRR
· $1,935.2 million NPV at an 8% discount rate
· 1.9 year payback period, on the initial capital costs of $779.6 million
The following tax regimes were incorporated in the post-tax analysis: U.S. Federal Income Tax, Alaska State Income Tax (AST), and Alaska Mining License Tax (AMLT). Taxes are calculated based on currently enacted United States and State of Alaska tax laws and regulations, including the U.S. Federal enactment of the Tax Cuts & Jobs Act (TCJA) on December 22, 2017. At the base case metal prices used for this study, the total estimated taxes payable on the Arctic Project profits are $1,162.2 million over the 12-year mine life.
The post-tax financial results are:
· 33.4% IRR
· $1,412.7 million NPV at an 8% discount rate
· 2.0 year payback period, on the initial capital costs of $779.6 million
Sensitivity Analysis
Ausenco investigated the sensitivity of the Arctic Project’s pre-tax NPV, and IRR to several project variables, including metal prices (copper, lead, zinc, gold, silver), capital costs, and operating costs (onsite and offsite). The metal grade is not presented in these findings because the impacts of changes in the metal grade mirror the impact of changes in metal price.
The Arctic Project’s pre-tax NPV at an 8% discount rate is most sensitive to changes in copper price, followed by zinc price, off-site operating costs, on-site operating costs, capital costs, silver price, gold price, and lead price.
The Arctic Project’s pre-tax IRR is most sensitive to changes in copper price and capital cost, followed by zinc price and off site operating costs, and in then decreasing order, on-site operating costs, silver price, gold price, and lead price.
Interpretations and Conclusions
Under the assumptions presented in the 2018 Arctic Report, the Arctic Project shows positive economics.
The financial analysis excludes consideration of the NANA Agreement, whereby NANA has the right, following a construction decision, to elect to purchase a 16% to 25% direct interest in the Arctic Project or, alternatively, to receive a 15% Net Proceeds Royalty.
The financial analysis excludes consideration of the South32 Option Agreement, whereby South32 has the right to form a 50/50 Joint Venture with Trilogy over Trilogy’s Alaskan interests, including the Arctic Project.
The cost assumptions for the AMDIAP road are estimates provided by Trilogy. There is a risk to the capital and operating cost estimates, the financial analysis, and the Mineral Reserves if the toll road is not built in the time frame required for the Arctic Project, or if the toll charges are significantly different from what was assumed.
Recommendations
A single-phase work program is recommended, which will include: geotechnical investigations and studies; optimization of the plant and related service facilities and evaluation of the power supply; examination of water management, water treatment, WRD and TSF designs; baseline studies and environmental permitting activities; and additional metallurgical test work. The budget for this work is estimated at about $3.3 million.
Bornite Project, Ambler District, Alaska
Bornite Project
Except as otherwise stated, the scientific and technical information relating to the Bornite Project contained in this Form 10-K is derived from, the 2018 Bornite Report titled “NI 43-101 Technical Report on the Bornite Project, Northwest Alaska, USA” dated July 20, 2018 with an effective date of June 5, 2018 prepared by BD Resource Consulting, Inc., SIM Geological Inc., and International Metallurgical & Environmental Inc. The information regarding the Bornite Project is based on assumptions, qualifications and procedures which are not fully described herein. Reference should be made to the full text of the 2018 Bornite Report which has been filed with certain Canadian securities regulatory authorities pursuant to NI 43-101 and is available for review on SEDAR at www.sedar.com and on EDGAR at www.sec.gov.
Bornite Project - Property Description and Location
The property is located in the Ambler mining district of the southern Brooks Range, in the NWAB of Alaska. The property is located in Ambler River A-2 quadrangle, Kateel River Meridian T 19N, R 9E, sections 4, 5, 8 and 9. The Bornite Project is located 248 km east of the town of Kotzebue, 19 km north of the village of Kobuk, 275 km west of the Dalton Highway, an all-weather state maintained public road, at geographic coordinates N67.07° latitude and W156.94° longitude (Universal Transverse Mercator (UTM) North American Datum (NAD) 83, Zone 4W coordinates 7440449N, 589811E).
Bornite Project - Accessibility, Climate, Local Resources, Infrastructure, and Physiography
Primary access to the Bornite Project is by air, using both fixed wing aircraft and helicopters. There are four well maintained, approximately 1,500 m-long gravel airstrips located near the property, capable of accommodating charter fixed wing aircraft. These airstrips are located 40 km west at Ambler, 23 km southwest at Shungnak, 19 km south at Kobuk, and 15 km south at Dahl Creek. There is daily commercial air service from Kotzebue to the village of Kobuk, the closest community to the property. During the summer months, the Dahl Creek Camp airstrip is suitable for larger aircraft, such as C-130 and DC-6. In addition to the four 1,500 m airstrips, there is a 700 m airstrip located at the Bornite Camp. The airstrip at Bornite is suited to smaller aircraft, which support the Bornite Camp with personnel and supplies.
There is no direct water access to the property. During spring runoff, river access is possible by barge from Kotzebue Sound to Ambler, Shungnak, and Kobuk via the Kobuk River.
A two-lane, two-wheel drive gravel road links the Bornite Project’s main camp to the 1,525 m Dahl Creek airstrip and village of Kobuk.
The climate in the region is typical of a sub-arctic environment. Exploration is generally conducted from late May until late September. Weather conditions on the Bornite Project can vary significantly from year to year and can change suddenly. During the summer exploration season, average maximum temperatures range from 10°C to 20°C, while average lows range from -2°C to 7°C. By early October, unpredictable weather limits safe helicopter travel to the property. During winter months, the property can be accessed by snow machine, track vehicle, or fixed wing aircraft. Winter temperatures are routinely below -25°C and can exceed -50°C. Annual precipitation in the region averages at 395 mm with the most rainfall occurring from June through September, and the most snowfall occurring from November through January.
Drilling and mapping programs are seasonal and have been supported out of the Main Bornite Camp and Dahl Creek Camp. The main Bornite Camp facilities are located on Ruby Creek on the northern edge of the Cosmos Hills. The camp provides office space and accommodations for the geologists, drillers, pilots, and support staff. There are four 2-person cabins installed by NANA prior to our tenure. In 2011, the main Bornite Camp was expanded to 20 sleeping tents, 3 administrative tents, 2 shower/bathroom tents, 1 medical tent, and 1 dining/cooking tent. With these additions, the camp capacity was increased to 49 beds. A 30 m by 9 m core logging facility was also built in summer of 2011. An incinerator was installed near the Bornite airstrip to manage waste created by the Bornite Project. Power for the Bornite Project is supplied by a 175 kW Caterpillar diesel generator. Water is provided by a permitted artesian well located 250 m from the Bornite Camp. In 2012, the camp was further expanded with the addition of a laundry tent, a women's shower/washroom tent, a recreation tent, several additional sleeping tents, and a 2 x enlargement of the kitchen tent. Camp capacity increased to 76 beds. The septic field was upgraded to accommodate the increase in camp population. One of the two-person cabins was winterized for use by the winter caretaker. A permitted landfill was established to allow for the continued cleanup and rehabilitation of the historic shop facilities and surroundings. The Dahl Creek camp is a leased facility used as an overflow or alternative facility to the main Bornite Camp. The Dahl Creek camp has a main cabin for dining and administrative duties, and a shower facility. Sleeping facilities include two hard-sided sleeping cabins with seven beds (primarily used for staff), one 4-person sleeping tent, and three 2-person sleeping tents for a total of 17 beds. There are support structures, including a shop and storage facilities.
The Bornite Project is located on Ruby Creek on the northern edge of the Cosmos Hills. The Cosmos Hills are part of the southern flank of the Brooks Range in Northwest Alaska. Topography in the area is moderately rugged. Maximum relief in the Cosmos Hills is approximately 1,000 masl with an average of 600 masl. Talus covers the upper portions of the hills; glacial and fluvial sediments occupy valleys. The Kobuk Valley is located at the transition between boreal forest and Arctic tundra. Spruce, birch, and poplar are found in portions of the valley, with a ground cover of lichens (reindeer moss). Willow and alder thickets and isolated cottonwoods follow drainages, and alpine tundra is found at higher elevations. Tussock tundra and low, heath-type vegetation covers most of the valley floor. Patches of permafrost exist on the property. Wildlife in the property area is typical of Arctic and Subarctic fauna. Larger animals include caribou, moose, Dall sheep, bears (grizzly and black), wolves, wolverines, coyotes, and foxes. Fish species include salmon, sheefish, arctic char, and arctic grayling. The Kobuk River, which briefly enters the Upper Kobuk Mineral Projects on its southwest corner, is a significant salmon spawning river. The caribou on the property belong to the Western Arctic herd that migrates twice a year - south in August, from their summer range north of the Brooks Range, and north in March from their winter range along the Buckland River.
Bornite Project - History
Kennecott and Bear Creek Mining Tenure
Regional exploration began in the early 1900s when gold prospectors noted copper occurrences in the hills north of Kobuk, Alaska. In 1947, local prospector Rhinehart “Rhiny” Berg along with various partners traversing in the area located outcropping mineralization along Ruby Creek (Bornite) on the north side of the Cosmos Hills. They subsequently staked claims over the Ruby Creek showings and constructed an airstrip for access. In 1957, BCMC, Kennecott's exploration subsidiary, optioned the property from Berg. Exploration drilling in 1961 and 1962 culminated in the discovery of the “No.1 Ore Body” where drill hole RC-34 cut 20 m of 24% copper (the “No.1 Ore Body” is a historic term used by BCMC that does not connote economic viability in the present context; it is convenient to continue to use the term to describe exploration work and historic resource estimation in a specific area of what is now generally known as Ruby Creek Upper Reef). The discovery of the “No.1 Ore Body” led to the development of an exploration shaft in 1966. The shaft, which reached a depth of 328 m, encountered a significant watercourse and was flooded near completion depth. The shaft was subsequently dewatered and an exploration drift was developed to provide access for sampling and mapping, and to accommodate underground drilling to further delineate mineralization. A total of 59 underground holes were drilled and, after the program, the shaft was allowed to re-flood. The discovery of the Arctic Project in 1965 prompted a hiatus in exploration at Bornite, and only limited drilling occurred up until 1976.
In the late 1990s, Kennecott resumed its evaluation of the Bornite deposit and the mineralization in the Cosmos Hills with an intensive soil, stream, and rock chip geochemical sampling program using 32 element ICP analyses. Grid soil sampling yielded 765 samples. Ridge and spur sampling resulted in an additional 850 soil samples in the following year. Skeletonized core samples (85 samples) from key historic drill holes were also analyzed using 32 element ICP analytical methods. Geochemical sampling identified multiple areas of elevated copper and zinc in the Bornite region.
Kennecott completed numerous geophysical surveys as an integral part of exploration throughout their tenure on the property. Various reports, notes, figures, and data files stored in Kennecott’s Salt Lake City exploration office indicated that geophysical work included, but was not limited to, the following:
· Airborne magnetic and EM surveys (fixed-wing INPUT) (1950s)
· Gravity, single point (“SP”), Audio-Frequency Magneto-Telluric (“AMT”), EM, borehole and surface IP/resistivity surveys (1960s)
· Gravity, airborne magnetic, and CSAMT surveys (1990s)
We have little information or documentation associated with these geophysical surveys conducted prior to the 1990s. Where data are available in these earlier surveys, the lack of details in data acquisition, coordinate systems, and data reduction procedures limit their usefulness. The only complete geophysical report available concerns down-hole IP/resistivity results. Most notable is the 1996 gravity survey from the Bornite deposit into the Ambler lowlands. The Bornite deposit itself is seen as a significant 3 milligal anomaly. Numerous 2 milligal to > 6 milligal anomalies occur under cover in the Ambler lowlands and near the Aurora Mountain and Pardner Hill occurrences. In addition to the geophysical surveys conducted by Kennecott, the ADNR completed an aeromagnetic survey of portions of the Ambler mining district in 1974-1975.
Several studies have been undertaken reviewing the geology and geochemistry of the Bornite deposit. Most notable is Murray Hitzman’s PhD dissertation at Stanford University and Don Runnel’s PhD dissertation at Harvard University. Bernstein and Cox reported on mineralization of the “No. 1 Ore Body” in a 1986 paper in Economic Geology. In addition to the historical work, Ty Connor at the Colorado School of Mines recently completed a Master’s thesis which reported on the timing of alteration and mineralization at the Bornite deposit.
Kennecott conducted two technical reviews of the groundwater conditions and a summary of the findings related to the flooding of the exploration shaft. In 1961, Kennecott collected 32 coarse reject samples from five drill holes to support preliminary metallurgical test work at Bornite. Samples targeted high-grade (> 10%) copper mineralization from the Upper Reef at Ruby Creek.
Bornite Project - Geological Setting and Mineralization
The Bornite Project is located within the Arctic Alaska Terrane, a sequence of mostly Paleozoic continental margin rocks that make up the Brooks Range and North Slope of Alaska. It is within the Phyllite Belt geologic subdivision, which together with the higher-grade Schist Belt, stretches almost the entire length of the Brooks Range and is considered to represent the hinterland of the Jurassic Brooks Range orogeny. The southern margin of the Phyllite Belt is marked by mélange and low angle faults associated with the Kobuk River fault zone, while the northern boundary is thought to be gradational with the higher-grade metamorphic rocks of the Schist Belt.
The geology of the Bornite resource area is composed of alternating beds of carbonate rocks (limestone and dolostone) and calcareous phyllite. Limestone transitions laterally into dolostone, which hosts the majority of the mineralization and is considered to be hydrothermal in origin. Spatial relationships and petrographic work establish dolomitization as genetically related to early stages of the copper mineralizing system.
Work by Trilogy in 2015 focused on furthering the understanding of the distribution and nature of the various lithologic units and their context in a sedimentary depositional model. The updated model, based on lithogeochemical signatures of the various units along with their historical visual logging, shows stacked debris flows composed of basal non-argillaceous channelized debris flows breccias with a fining upward sequence of increasingly argillaceous-rich breccias capped by high calcium (Ca) phyllites, confined laterally in channels between either massive or thin-bedded platform carbonates. Two stacked debris flow sequences are apparent, the Lower and Upper reefs. The Upper Reef grades vertically into capping argillaceous limestones instead of discrete high Ca phyllites indicating a shallowing upward or filling of the debris flow channels. Based on this updated interpretation, a series individual debris flow cycles have been modeled. Low calcium (Ca) phyllites, such as the Anirak Schist (QP) and the Beaver Creek Phyllite respectively underlie and cap the local stratigraphy suggesting different sourcing than the locally derived high Ca phyllites of the debris flow dominated Bornite Carbonate sequence stratigraphy. The Beaver Creek Phylite is in structural contact with the Bornite Carbonate Sequence while the contact with the underlying Anirak Schist is an unconformity. In addition to the stacked sedimentary stratigraphy, a crosscutting breccia dubbed the P-Breccia has been identified in and around the recently discovered South Reef mineralization. Though poorly defined by the overall lack of drilling in the area, the body which contains excellent copper grade lies at or near the Iron Mountain discontinuity. It remains unclear whether the P Breccia is a post-depositional structural, hydrothermal or solution-collapse induced breccia.
Structural fabrics observed on the property include bedding and two separate foliations. Bedding (S0) can be measured only rarely where phyllite and carbonate are interbedded and it is unclear to what extent it is transposed. The pervasive foliation (S1) is easily measured in phyllites and may be reflected by colour banding and/or stylolamination (flaggy habit in outcrop) of the carbonates. Core logging shows that S1 is folded gently on the 10 m scale and locally tightly folded at the decimetre scale. S2 axial planar cleavage is locally developed in decimetre scale folds of S1. Both S1 and S2 foliations are considered to be Jurassic in age. Owing to their greater strength, bodies of secondary dolostone have resisted strain and foliation development, whereas the surrounding limestone and calc-phyllite appear in places to have been attenuated during deformation. This deformation, presumably Jurassic, complicates sedimentological interpretations. Potentially the earliest and most prominent structural feature in the resource area is the northeast-trending Iron Mountain discontinuity which is still problematic in its interpretation.
Mineralization at Bornite occurs as tabular mineralized zones that coalesce into crudely stratiform bodies hosted in secondary dolomite. Two significant dolomitic horizons that host mineralization have been mapped by drilling and include: 1) the Lower Reef, a thick 100 to 300 m thick dolomitized zone lying immediately above the basal quartz phyllite unit of the Anirak Schist; and 2) the Upper Reef, a 100 to 150 m thick dolomite horizon roughly 300 m higher in section.
The Lower Reef dolomite outcrops along the southern margin of the Ruby Creek zone and is spatially extensive throughout the deposit area. It hosts a significant portion of the shallow resources in the Ruby Creek zone as well as higher grade resources down dip and to the northeast in the South Reef. The Upper Reef zone hosts relatively high-grade resources to the north in the Ruby Creek zone. The Upper reef zone appears to lie at an important NE- trending facies transition to the NW of the main drilled area and locally appears to be at least partially thrust over the Lower Reef stratigraphy to the southeast.
Drill results from 2013 show dolomitization and copper mineralization in the Upper and Lower Reefs coalescing into a single horizon along the northern limits of current exploration. The NE- trending Ruby Creek and South Reef zones also coalesce into a roughly 1000 m wide zone of >200 m thick dolomite containing significant copper mineralization dipping north at roughly 5-10 degrees. The 2017 drill results show that the mineralized dolomite horizon continues for at least another 700m down-dip to the northeast.
Bornite Project - Mineralization
Copper mineralization at Bornite is comprised of chalcopyrite, bornite, and chalcocite distributed in stacked, roughly stratiform zones exploiting favourable stratigraphy within the dolomitized limestone package. Mineralization occurs, in order of increasing grade, as disseminations, irregular and discontinuous stringer-style veining, breccia matrix replacement, and stratiform massive sulphides. The distribution of copper mineral species is zoned around the bottom-centre of each zone, with bornite-chalcocite-chalcopyrite at the core and progressing outward to chalcopyrite-pyrite. Additional volumetrically minor copper species include carrollite, digenite, tennantite-tetrahedrite, and covellite. Stringer pyrite and locally significant sphalerite occur above and around the copper zones, while locally massive pyrite and sparse pyrrhotite occur in association with siderite alteration below copper mineralization in the Lower Reef.
In addition to the copper mineralization, significant cobalt mineralization is found accompanying bornite-chalcocite mineralization. Cobalt occurs with high-grade copper as both carrollite (Co2CuS4) and as cobaltiferous rims on recrystallized pyrite grains. Preliminary geometallurgical work by Trilogy supports this observation and shows cobalt occurring primarily as cobaltiferious pyrite (approximately 80% of he contained cobalt) and within other cobalt minerals such as carrollite, and cobaltite (CoAsS) present throughout the deposit (Upper Reef, Lower Reef, and South Reed).
Appreciable silver values are also found with bornite-rich mineralization in the South Reef and Ruby Creek zones.
Bornite Project - Exploration
Exploration in and around the Bornite Project by Kennecott from 1957 to 1998 is summarized above. In addition to the extensive drilling completed during the more than 40-year tenure of Kennecott in the district, Kennecott completed widespread surface geochemical sampling, regional and property scale mapping, and numerous geophysical surveys employing a wide variety of techniques. The majority of this data has been acquired by us and forms the basis for renewed exploration that targets Bornite-style mineralization in the Bornite carbonate sequence.
NovaGold as the precursor company to us began to actively pursue an agreement to explore the Bornite Project with NANA in 2005 resulting in an initial airborne geophysical survey in 2006. Negotiations on the consolidation and exploration of the entire Ambler district continued for the next several years culminating in the NANA Agreement in October 2011.
With the NANA Agreement approaching completion, NovaGold initiated work in 2010 to begin to characterize the exploration potential and depositional controls by re-logging and re-analyzing select drill holes with a Niton portable x-ray fluorescence (“XRF”) to determine geochemical variability. In 2011, NovaGold began an initial drill program to verify the historical database and exploration potential and conducted additional geophysical surveys to provide better targeting tools for continued exploration in the district. In 2012, we expanded the IP geophysical coverage completing a major district-wide survey that targeted the prospective Bornite Carbonate sequence. Subsequent resource drilling between 2011 and 2013 based on the exploration targeting is discussed in the “Bornite Project - Mineral Resource Estimates” section below.
2006 NovaGold Exploration
In 2006, NovaGold contracted Fugro Airborne Surveys to complete a detailed helicopter DIGHEM magnetic, EM and radiometric survey of the Cosmos Hills. The survey covered a rectangular block approximately 18 km by 49 km which totaled 2,852 line kilometres. The survey was flown at 300 m line spacing with a line direction of N20E. The DIGHEM helicopter survey system produced detailed profile data of magnetics, EM responses and radiometrics (total count, uranium, thorium, and potassium) and was processed into maps of magnetics, discrete EM anomalies, EM apparent resistivity, and radiometric responses.
2010 NovaGold Exploration
In 2010, in anticipation of completing the NANA Agreement, NANA granted NovaGold permission to begin low level exploration at Bornite; this consisted of re-logging and re-analyzing select drill holes using a Niton portable XRF. In addition to the 2010 re-logging effort, NovaGold contracted a consulting geophysicist, Lou O'Connor, to compile a unified airborne magnetic map for the Ambler mining district from Kennecott, Alaska DNR, and NovaGold airborne geophysical surveys.
2011 NovaGold Exploration
In 2011, NovaGold contracted Zonge International Inc. (“Zonge”) to conduct both dipole-dipole complex resistivity induced polarization (“CRIP”) and natural source audio-magnetotelluric (“NSAMT”) surveys over the northern end of the prospect to develop tools for additional exploration targeting under cover to the north.
NSAMT data were acquired along two lines totaling 5.15 line-km, with one line oriented generally north-south through the centre of the survey area and one being the southernmost east-west line in the survey area. CRIP data were acquired on five lines: four east-west lines and one north-south line, for a total coverage of 14.1 line-km and 79 collected CRIP stations. The initial objective of the survey was to investigate geological structures and the distribution of sulphides possibly associated with copper mineralization.
Results from the paired surveys show that wide-spaced dipole-dipole resistivity is the most effective technique to directly target the mineralization package. Broad low resistivity anomalies reflecting pyrite haloes and mineralization appear to define the limits of the fluid package. Well-defined and often very strong chargeability anomalies are also present, but appear in part to be masked by phyllitic units which also have strong chargeability signatures. The NSAMT show similar resistivity features as the IP, but are less well resolved.
2012 Trilogy Exploration
In light of the success of the 2011 geophysical program, we contracted Zonge to conduct a major district-wide dipole/dipole IP survey, a down-hole IP radial array survey in the South Reef area, and an extensive physical property characterization study of the various lithologies to better interpret the existing historical geophysical data.
Zonge completed 48 line km of 200 m dipole/dipole IP during 2012, infilling and expanding on the 2011 survey, and stretching across the most prospective part of the outcropping permissive Bornite Carbonate sequence. The results show a well-defined low resistivity area associated with mineralization and variable IP signatures attributed both to mineralization and the overlying Beaver Creek phyllite. Numerous target areas occur in the immediate Bornite area with lesser targets occurring in the Aurora Mountain and Pardner Hill areas and in the far east of the survey area. During the 2012 drill program at South Reef, a single drill hole was targeted on a low resistivity area approximately 500 m to 600 m southeast of the South Reef mineralization trend. Although the drill hole intersected some dolomite alteration in the appropriate stratigraphy, no significant sulphides were encountered.
In addition to the extensive ground IP survey, Zonge also completed 9 km of down-hole radial IP using an electrode placed in drill hole RC12-0197 to further delineate the trend and potential in and around the South Reef. In addition to the 2012 ground geophysical surveys, extensive physical property data including resistivity, chargeability, specific gravity, and magnetic susceptibility were captured for use in modelling the existing ground IP and gravity surveys, and the airborne EM and magnetic surveys.
In addition to geophysical focused exploration, a district wide geologic map was compiled integrating Kennecott’s 1970’s mapping of the Cosmos Hills with selective Trilogy mapping in 2012.
2013 Trilogy Exploration
The emphasis of the 2013 program was to further validate and refine the 2012 geologic map of the Cosmos Hills. A deep penetrating soil and vegetation geochemical orientation survey was completed over the South Reef deposit, utilizing various partial leaches and pH methods. The initial, approximately 1 km, test lines suggest a good response for several of the partial leaches of the soils but little response in the vegetative samples; further follow-up is warranted to the north of the deposit into the Ambler lowlands.
2014 Trilogy Exploration
During 2014, exploration work was limited to a re-logging and re-sampling program of historical Kennecott drill core.
2015 Trilogy Exploration
As a follow-up to the 2013 field program, a deep penetrating soil and vegetation geochemical survey was extended north of the deposit into the Ambler lowlands. Trilogy geologists completed a lithogeochemical desktop study and a comprehensive update to the 3D lithology model; the updated domains have been utilized in the most recent resource estimation.
2017 Trilogy Exploration
The 2017 field program extended the 2013 and 2015 Deep Penetrating Geochemical (DPG) soil survey another 500m to the northeast. The 2013 soil line was extended 1500m to the east to test over the covered projection of the Two Grey Hills carbonate section. The 3D lithology model was updated to incorporate the 2017 drill program results, which are described in Section 10,
Trilogy Metals also completed a close spaced (100m station spacing) ground gravity survey over a 2 km by 4km grid covering the existing resource area and extending northeast over the 2017 drill target area. The complete Bouguer Anomaly (CBA) residual plot (removes a strong decreasing to the northeast regional gradient) shows good correlation with the Lower Reef mineralization that outcrops on surface with the gravity high gradually decreasing down-dip to the northeast.
As part of the overall gravity program, Mira Geosciences created a petrophysical model for the Bornite Deposit that synthesized the expected gravity response on surface (forward model) for the 2017 gravity stations. This forward model matches very closely with the actual survey data over the deposit area, but diverges on the south end where the expected response of gravity low is actually a strong gravity high that may reflect shallow mineralization up-dip along the South Reef trend. Mira also completed a geologically constrained 3D inversion using the 2017 gravity data. Two areas of anomalously high densities (>2.9 g/cc) were identified. The first area extends up to 750m to the east-northeast of RC17-0239, which was one of the more successful holes in 2017 and is coincident with the Iron Mountain structure. The second anomaly is located just above the Anirak contact (Lower Reef) to the west of the 2017 target area and 700m to the north of the closest drill hole (RC-53), which is weakly mineralized along that horizon. This area falls along the northwest-southeast high grade thickness trend.
Bornite Project - Drilling
A total of 192 surface core holes and 51 underground core holes, totaling 86,854 m have been drilled, targeting the Bornite deposit during 21 different annual campaigns dating from 1957 through 2017. All of the drill campaigns, with the exception of the 2011 NovaGold campaign and the 2012, 2013 and 2017 Trilogy campaigns were completed by Kennecott or their exploration subsidiary BCMC. All drill holes (except RC13-230 and RC13-232 which have been reserved for metallurgical studies) and 2017 drill hotels that targeted too far from the existing resource to be used, were utilized in the estimation of the current resource.
In the 2017 drill campaign, nine holes were initiated but two abandoned due to drilling problems. The seven drill holes completed in 2017 stepped-out between 250 to 400m from the previous drill holes, distances considered too far to support the estimation of mineral resources. Additional, closer-spaced drill holes are required in this area to provide the degree of confidence required to support resource estimation.
Sprague and Henwood, a Pennsylvania-based drilling company, completed all of the Kennecott drilling, with the exception of the 1997 program (three drill holes) completed by Tonto Drilling Services, Inc. (a NANA-Dynatech company). The 2011 thru 2013 NovaGold/Trilogy programs used Boart Longyear Company as the drill contractor. The 2017 program used Tuuq Drilling, a NANA company, who sub-contracted Major Drilling.
In the initial years of drilling at Bornite, Kennecott relied on AX core (1.1875 in or 30.2 mm diameter), but, as drilling migrated towards deeper targets, a change to BX core (1.625 in or 41.3 mm diameter) was implemented to help limit deviation. From 1966 to 1967, drilling activity at Bornite moved underground and EX diameter core (0.845 in or 21.5 mm diameter) was implemented to define the Ruby Creek Upper Reef zone “No.1 Ore Body”. Drilling activity moved back to the surface in 1968, and, from 1968 to 1972, BX core was most commonly drilled. In later years, core size increased to NX (2.125 in or 54.0 mm diameter) and finally, in 2011, core size increased to NQ (1.874 in or 47.6 mm diameter) and HQ (2.5 in or 63.5 mm diameter). Progressively larger diameter drill rods have been continually used over the years in an attempt to minimize drill hole deviation.
There is only partial knowledge of specific drill core handling procedures used by Kennecott during their tenure at the Bornite Deposit. All of the drill data collected during the Kennecott drilling programs (1958 to 1997) was logged on paper drill logs, copies of which are stored in the Kennecott office in Salt Lake City, Utah. Electronic scanned copies of the paper logs, in PDF format, are held by Trilogy. Drill core was sawed or split with a splitter, with half core submitted to various assay labs and the remainder stored in the Kennecott core storage facility at the Bornite Deposit. In 1995, Kennecott entered the drill assay data, the geologic core logs, and the down hole collar survey data into an electronic format. In 2009, NovaGold geologists verified the geologic data from the original paper logs against the Kennecott electronic format and then merged the data into a Microsoft™ SQL database. Sampling of drill core by Kennecott and BCMC focused primarily on the moderate to high grade mineralized zones. Intervals of visible sulphide mineralization containing roughly >0.5 to 1% copper were selected for analysis by Union Assay Office Inc. of Salt Lake City, Utah. This approach left numerous intervals containing weak to moderate copper mineralization un-sampled in the historic drill core. During the 2012 exploration program, we began sampling a portion of this remaining drill core in select holes in the South Reef area. Trilogy extended this sampling program to the Ruby Creek area in 2013 and 2014.
Throughout our tenure at Bornite, the following core handling procedures have been implemented. Core is slung by helicopter, or transported by truck or ATV, from the drill rig to the core-logging facility. Upon delivery, geologists and geotechnicians open and inspect the core boxes for any irregularities. They first mark the location of each drilling block on the core box, and then convert footages on the blocks into metric equivalents. Geotechnicians or geologists measure the intervals (or “from/to”) for each box of core and include this information, together with the drill hole ID and box number, on a metal tag stapled to the end of each box. Geotechnicians then measure the core to calculate percent recovery and rock quality designation (“RQD”). RQD is the sum of the total length of all pieces of core over 12 cm in a run. The total length of core in each run is measured and compared to the corresponding run length to determine percent recovery. Core is then logged with lithology and visual alteration features captured on observed interval breaks. Mineralization data, including sulphide specie and abundance (recorded as percent), t and gangue and vein mineralogy are collected for each sample interval with an average interval of approximately 2 m. Structural data is collected as point data. Geologists then mark sample intervals to capture each lithology or other geologically appropriate intervals. Sample intervals of core are typically between 1 m and 3 m in length but are not to exceed 3 m in length. Occasionally, if warranted by the need for better resolution of geology or mineralization, smaller sample intervals have been employed. Geologists staple sample tags on the core boxes at the start of each sample interval and mark the core itself with a wax pencil to designate sample intervals. This sampling approach is considered sound and appropriate for this style of mineralization and alteration. Drill core is digitally photographed prior to sampling. Drill core is cut in half using diamond core saws. Specific attention to core orientation is maintained during core sawing to ensure that representative samples are obtained. One-half of the core is retained in the core box for storage on site, or at our Fairbanks warehouse, and the other half bagged and labeled for analysis. Samples are selected for specific gravity measurements.
In 2013, 33 historic drill holes in the Ruby Creek area, and in 2014, 37 historic drill holes in the Ruby Creek Area were re-logged, re-sampled and re-assayed as these holes had previously only been selectively sampled by Kennecott. Entire holes were re-logged utilizing Trilogy protocols discussed above. Samples were submitted either as half-core, where previously sampled, or whole core where un-sampled (this was done to ensure that a sufficient volume of material was provided for analysis). Sample intervals were matched to historic intervals whenever possible, or selected to reflect Trilogy sampling procedures described above. The objectives of the re-assay/re-logging program were threefold: 1) to implement a QA/QC program on intervals previously sampled by Kennecott in order to confirm the validity of their results; 2) to identify additional lower grade (0.2-0.5% copper), which was not previously sampled; and 3) to provide additional multi-element ICP data to assist in the geologic interpretation of the deposit.
Bornite Project - Sample Preparation, Analyses and Security
Sample preparation, analytical lab accreditation and security measures taken during historical Kennecott and BCMC programs are unknown to us; however, we are not aware of any reason to suspect that any of these samples have been tampered with. The 2011 to 2013 and 2017 samples were either in the custody of NovaGold or Trilogy personnel or the assay laboratories at all times, and the chain of custody of the samples is well documented.
Once drill core was sawed, one half was retained for future reference and the other half was sent to ALS Minerals (formerly ALS Chemex) in Vancouver for analyses. Shipment of core samples from the Bornite camp occurred whenever backhaul capacity was available on the chartered aircraft, which was generally 5 to 6 days a week. Rice bags, containing two to four individual poly-bagged core samples, were marked and labeled with the ALS Minerals address, project name (Bornite), drill hole number, bag number, and sample numbers enclosed. Rice bags were secured with a pre-numbered plastic security tie, assembled into loads for transport by chartered flights on a commercial airline to Fairbanks, and directly delivered by a contracted expeditor to the ALS Minerals preparation facility in Fairbanks. In addition to the core samples, control samples were inserted into the shipments at thee rate of one standard, one blank and one duplicate per 17 core samples. Samples were logged into a tracking system on arrival at ALS Minerals, and weighed. Samples were then crushed, dried, and a 250 g split was pulverized to greater than 85% passing 75 μm.
Gold assays in 2011 and 2012 were determined using fire analysis followed by an atomic absorption spectroscopy (“AAS”) finish; gold was not analyzed in 2013 or 2014. The lower detection limit was 0.005 ppm gold; the upper limit was 10 ppm gold. An additional 48-element suite was assayed by inductively coupled plasma-mass spectrometry (“ICP-MS”) and ICPAES methodologies, following a four acid digest. Over limit (>1.0%) copper and zinc analyses were completed by AA, following a four acid digest.
ALS Minerals has attained International Organization for Standardization (ISO) 9001:2000 registration. In addition, the ALS Minerals laboratory in Vancouver is accredited to ISO 17025 by Standards Council of Canada for a number of specific test procedures including fire assay of gold by AA, ICP and gravimetric finish, multi-element ICP and AA assays for silver, copper, lead and zinc. Trilogy has no relationship with any primary or check assay labs utilized.
During 2012, 2013, and 2014, Trilogy staff performed continuous validation of the drill data; both while logging was in progress and after the field program was complete. Trilogy also retained independent consultant Caroline Vallat, P.Geo. of GeoSpark Consulting Inc. to: 1) import digital drill data to the master database and conduct QA/QC checks upon import, 2) conduct a QA/QC review of paired historical assays and Trilogy 2012, 2013 and 2014 re-assays; 3) monitor an independent check assay program for the 2012, 2013, and 2014 campaigns; and 4) generate a QA/QC report for the 2012, 2013, and 2014 campaigns along with a 2017 review of the cobalt data.
Bornite Project - Mineral Resource Estimates
The mineral resource estimate has been prepared by Bruce M. Davis, FAusIMM, BD Resource Consulting, and Robert Sim, P.Geo., SIM Geological Inc., both independent “Qualified Persons” as defined in NI 43-101. We have filed several previous NI 43-101 Technical Reports on the Bornite Project dated March 18, 2014, February 5, 2013, July 18, 2012 and April 19, 2016. The effective date of this resource is June 5, 2018.
During the summer of 2017, Trilogy drilled seven drill holes testing the area down-dip continuity of the northern part of the Bornite deposit. These drill holes successfully tested the mineralized target horizon but the spacing of these holes is considered too far to support the generation of additional mineral resource estimates. As a result, the estimates of copper resources remain unchanged from those reported in April 2016.
During the period from 2011 through 2017, Trilogy implemented an expanded program of re-sampling and re-assaying for an extended suite of elements including cobalt. This report includes a description of the procedures used to estimate cobalt resources for the Bornite deposit.
The Bornite Project database comprises a total of 243 diamond drill (core) holes totaling 86,5845 m; 173 holes target the Ruby Creek zone and 45 holes target the South Reef zone. The remaining 25 holes in the database are exploratory in nature and test for satellite mineralization proximal to the Bornite Deposit. The database contains a total of 32,138 samples that have been analyzed for copper content and 26,574 that have been analyzed for cobalt content. During 2014, Trilogy geologists re-logged and sampled 37 Kennecott drill holes comprising approximately 13,000 meters with partial or no assays. The resource estimate incorporates the results from the 2014 field program as well as advancements to the 3D geological model completed during 2015.
Mineralization in the Ruby Creek zone occurs as two discrete strata bound lenses: a Lower Reef which outcrops and dips approximately 10-15 degrees to the northeast; and an Upper Reef lying roughly 150+ meters above the Lower Reef stratigraphy and which includes a small high-grade zone historically referred to as the "No.1 Orebody" by Kennecott. Mineralization is hosted by a Devonian age carbonate sequence containing broad zones of dolomite alteration and associated sulfide mineralization including bornite, chalcopyrite, and chalcocite occurring as disseminations and vein stockworks as well as crackle and mosaic breccia fillings and locally massive to semi-massive replacement bodies. The geological and assay database have been reviewed and audited by BDRC and SGI. It is of the opinion of BDRC and SGI that the current drilling information is sufficiently reliable to interpret with confidence the boundaries for copper mineralization and that the assay data are sufficiently reliable to support mineral resource estimation. That estimation utilizes two-meter compositing of assays from 216 drill holes completed between 1961 and 2013. Estimated blocks were 5 x 5 x 5 meters on a side.
Sixty domains were established for the estimation, all of which were treated as hard boundaries with no mixing of data between the domains. A series of carbonate and phyllite lithology domains together with grade probability shells at 2% copper and 0.2% copper thresholds were used to constrain the estimates. Visual inspections of the probability shells show that they fit well with observed levels of bornite, chalcocite and chalcopyrite mineralization.
Based on the interpreted local high-grade nature of the mineralization, both capping and outlier restriction strategies were implemented to control the influence of high-grade mineralization in the resource model. This methodology removed approximately 3% of the contained copper in the Ruby Creek area and 7% of the contained copper in the South Reef area.
A total of 5,366 samples containing specific gravity measurements were utilized to estimate densities in the block model. Specific gravity values were estimated into model blocks using inverse distance squared moving averages using the domains described previously.
Copper and cobalt grades in model blocks were estimated using ordinary kriging. A dynamic search orientation strategy was utilized, during both grade and specific gravity interpolations, which is controlled by the interpreted trends of mineralization in the Upper, Lower and South Reef zones. The block model has been validated through a combination of visual and statistical methods to ensure that the grade and density estimates are an appropriate representation of the underlying sample data.
The Bornite deposit comprises several zones of relatively continuous moderate- to high-grade copper mineralization that extends from surface to depths of more than 800 m below surface. The deposit is potentially amenable to a combination of open pit and underground extraction methods. It is important to recognize that these discussions of underground and surface mining parameters are used solely for the purpose of testing the “reasonable prospects for economic extraction,” and do not represent an attempt to estimate mineral reserves. No mineral reserves have been calculated for the Bornite Project.
Indicated Mineral Resources includes blocks in the model that are potentially amenable to open pit extraction methods and are delineated by drilling with holes spaced at a maximum distance of 75 meters, and exhibit a relatively high degree of confidence in the grade and continuity of mineralization. Resources in the Inferred category require a minimum of one drill hole within a maximum distance of 100 m and exhibit reasonable confidence in the grade and continuity of mineralization.
In the opinion of the Qualified Persons, the level of understanding of the geologic controls that influence the distribution of copper mineralization at the Bornite Deposit is relatively good. The drilling, sampling and validation practices utilized by Trilogy during the various campaigns have been conducted in a professional manner and adhere to accepted industry standards. The confidence in older, historic, drilling conducted by Kennecott has been demonstrated through a series of validation checks and, overall, the underlying database is considered sufficient for the estimation of Indicated and Inferred mineral resources. The mineral resources have been estimated in conformity with generally accepted CIM Estimation of Mineral Resources and Mineral Reserves Best Practices Guidelines and are reported in accordance with the Canadian Securities Administrators’ NI 43-101. Mineral resources are not mineral reserves and do not have demonstrated economic viability. There is no certainty that all or any part of the mineral resource will be converted into mineral reserve. The estimate of mineral resources for the Bornite Project are summarized in “Bornite Project - Mineral Resource Statement”.
Bornite Project - Mineral Resource Statement
Mineral Resources are classified in accordance with the CIM Definition Standards for Mineral Resources and Mineral Reserves (May 2014).
Table 7: Indicated Resource Estimate for the Bornite Project
See “Cautionary Note to United States Investors”. This section uses the term “indicated resources”. We advise United States investors that these terms are not recognized by the SEC. United States investors are cautioned not to assume that estimates of indicated mineral resources are economically minable, or will be upgraded into measured mineral resources. See “Risk Factors” and “Cautionary Note to United States Investors”.
Estimate of Copper Mineral Resources - Indicated
Notes: 1. These resource estimates have been prepared in accordance with NI 43-101 and the CIM Definition Standards. Mineral resources that are not mineral reserves do not have demonstrated economic viability. See “Risk Factors” and “Cautionary Note to United States Investors.”
2. Resources stated as contained within a pit shell developed using a metal price of US$3.00/lb Cu, mining costs of US$2.00/tonne, milling costs of US$11/tonne, G&A cost of US$5.00/tonne, 87% metallurgical recoveries and an average pit slope of 43 degrees.
3. Rounding as required by reporting guidelines may result in apparent summation differences between tonnes, grade and contained metal content.
4. Tonnage and grade measurements are in metric units. Contained copper are reported as imperial pounds.
5. All amounts are stated in U.S. dollars unless otherwise noted.
Table 8: Inferred Resource Estimate for the Bornite Project
See “Cautionary Note to United States Investors”. This section uses the term “inferred resources”. We advise United States investors that these terms are not recognized by the SEC. The estimation of inferred resources involves far greater uncertainty as to their existence and economic viability than the estimation of other categories of resources. See “Risk Factors” and “Cautionary Note to United States Investors”.
Estimate of Copper Mineral Resources - Inferred
Notes: 1. These resource estimates have been prepared in accordance with NI 43-101 and the CIM Definition Standards. See “Risk Factors” and “Cautionary Note to United States Investors.”
2. Resources stated as contained within a pit shell developed using a metal price of US$3.00/lb Cu, mining costs of US$2.00/tonne, milling costs of US$11/tonne, G&A cost of US$5.00/tonne, 87% metallurgical recoveries and an average pit slope of 43 degrees.
3. Mineral resources at a 1.5% cut-off are considered as potentially economically viable in an underground mining scenario based on an assumed projected copper price of $3.00/lb, underground mining costs of $65.00 per tonne, milling costs of $11.00 per tonne, G&A of $5.00 per tonne, and an average metallurgical recovery of 87%.
4. Rounding as required by reporting guidelines may result in apparent summation differences between tonnes, grade and contained metal content.
5. Tonnage and grade measurements are in metric units. Contained copper are reported as imperial pounds.
6. All amounts are stated in U.S. dollars unless otherwise noted.
Estimate of Cobalt Mineral Resources - Inferred
1. Resources stated as contained within a pit shell developed using a metal price of US$3.00/lb Cu, mining costs of US$2.00/tonne, milling costs of US$11/tonne, G&A cost of US$5.00/tonne, 87% metallurgical recoveries and an average pit slope of 43 degrees.
2. Mineral Resources are not Mineral Reserves and do not have demonstrated economic viability. There is no certainty that all or any part of the Mineral Resources will be converted into Mineral Reserves.
3. It is reasonably expected that the majority of Inferred mineral resources could be upgraded to Indicated mineral resources with additional exploration.
4. Due to limited sample data, none of the cobalt resource meets the confidence for Indicated class resources. All cobalt resources are considered in the Inferred category.
There are no known factors related to environmental, permitting, legal, title, taxation, socio-economic, marketing or political issues which could materially affect the mineral resource.
Bornite Project - Metallurgy
Metallurgical test work to date indicates that the Bornite Project can be treated using standard grinding and flotation methods to produce copper concentrates. Initial testing indicates copper recoveries of approximately 87% resulting in concentrate grades of approximately 28% copper with very low potential penalty elements. Further metallurgical test work is warranted to test these assumptions.
Bornite Project - Environmental Considerations
The Bornite Project area includes NANA’s Bornite and ANCSA lands, the Ruby Creek drainage (a tributary of the Shungnak River), the Shungnak River drainage, and portions of the Ambler Lowlands. Since 2007, baseline environmental data collection has occurred in the area including archaeology, aquatic life surveys, sediment sampling, wetlands mapping, surface water quality sampling, hydrology, meteorological monitoring, and subsistence. Additional baseline environmental data in NANA’s Bornite and ANCSA lands, the Ruby Creek drainage, the Shungnak River drainage, portions of the Ambler Lowlands, and downstream receiving environments will be required to support future mine design, development of an EIS, permitting, construction and operations.
Bornite Project - Mining Operations
The Bornite Project is not currently in production; for contemplated exploration or development activities see below.
Bornite Project - Exploration and Development Permitting
Development of the Bornite Project will require a significant number of permits and authorizations from state, federal, and regional organizations. Much of the groundwork to support a successful permitting effort must be undertaken prior to submission of permit applications so that issues can be identified and resolved, baseline data can be acquired, and regulators and stakeholders can become familiar with the proposed project. The comprehensive permitting process for the Bornite Project can be divided into three categories:
1. Exploration state/regional permitting: required to obtain approval for drilling, camp operations, engineering, and environmental baseline studies.
2. Pre-application phase: conducted in conjunction with engineering feasibility studies. This stage includes the collection of environmental baseline data and interaction with stakeholders and regulators to facilitate the development of a project that can be successfully permitted.
3. The National Environmental Policy Act phase: formal agency review of the Federal and State requirements for public and agency participation to determine if and how the Bornite Project can be done in an acceptable manner.
The permit review process will determine the number of management plans required to address all aspects of the Project to ensure compliance with environmental design and permit criteria. Each plan will describe the appropriate environmental engineering standard and the applicable operations requirements, maintenance protocols, and response actions.
Item 3.