Item 2. PROPERTIES
The following descriptions summarize selected information about our Upper Kobuk Mineral Projects, which are located in the Ambler mining district of Alaska and include the Arctic Project and the Bornite Project. All of the Upper Kobuk Mineral Projects are without known reserves, as defined under SEC Industry Guide 7, and all proposed programs for the properties are exploratory in nature.
Arctic Project, Ambler District, Alaska
Arctic - Technical Report
Except with respect to the land size disclosure and the disclosure regarding the number of claims (which were both increased subsequent to the effective date of the PEA), and the information under the heading “Arctic Project - Current Activities”, or as otherwise stated, the scientific and technical information relating to the Arctic Project contained in this Form 10-K is derived from, and in some instances is an extract from, the technical report titled “Preliminary Economic Assessment Report on the Arctic Project, Ambler Mining District Northwest Alaska” dated effective September 12, 2013 prepared by Sabry Abdel Hafez, Ph.D., P.Eng. Jianhui Huang, Ph.D., P.Eng., Michael F. O’Brien, M.Sc., Pr.Sci.Nat, FGSSA, FAusIMM, FSAIMM, Mike Chin, P.Eng., Graham Wilkins, P.Eng., Hassan Ghaffari, M.Sc., P.Eng., Marvin Silva, Ph.D., P.Eng., Jack DiMarchi, CPG, and H. Wayne Stoyko, P.Eng. of Tetra Tech and EBA, a Tetra Tech Company (and together with Tetra Tech, “Tetra Tech”), all of whom have worked for Tetra Tech, and all of whom are Qualified Persons as defined in NI 43-101. Scott Petsel, P. Geo, an employee to the Company and a Qualified Person as defined in NI 43-101, approved the scientific and technical information under the heading “Arctic Project - Current Activities,” and the land size disclosure and the disclosure regarding the number of claims for the Ambler lands. The information regarding the Arctic Project is based on assumptions, qualifications and procedures which are not fully described herein. Reference should be made to the full text of the PEA which has been filed with certain Canadian securities regulatory authorities pursuant to NI 43-101 and is available for review on SEDAR at www.sedar.com and on EDGAR at www.sec.gov.
Arctic Project - Overview
The Ambler lands comprises 112,058 acres (45,348 hectares) of State of Alaska mining claims and Federal patented mining claims located in the Ambler mining district of the southern Brooks Range, in the Northwest Arctic Borough of Alaska. The Property is located 270 km east of the town of Kotzebue, 36 km northeast of the village of Kobuk, and 260 km west of the Dalton Highway, an all-weather state maintained highway, within which VMS mineralization can be found.
Exploration on the Arctic Project was intermittent between discovery in 1963 and 1998. From 1998 until 2003, there was no work performed on the Arctic Project. An exploration agreement was signed on March 22, 2004, as amended, between Kennecott Arctic Company and NovaGold under which NovaGold had the ability to earn a 51% interest in the Ambler lands. Since 2004, NovaGold has been performing project level and regional mapping, drilling, geophysics and geochemical surveys.
Under a purchase agreement dated December 18, 2009 between NovaGold, its wholly-owned subsidiary Alaska Gold Company and Kennecott Exploration Company and Kennecott Arctic Company (collectively, “Kennecott”) NovaGold agreed to pay Kennecott a total purchase price of $29 million for a 100% interest in the Ambler lands, to be paid as to: $5 million by the issuance of 931,098 NovaGold common shares and two instalments of $12 million in cash each, due 12 months and 24 months, respectively, from the closing date on January 7, 2010. The exploration agreement was then cancelled and Kennecott retained a security interest in the Ambler lands to secure these cash payments. The NovaGold shares were issued in January 2010, the first $12 million payment was made on January 7, 2011 and the second $12 million payment was made early on August 5, 2011 and Kennecott released its security interest. Kennecott retained a 1% net smelter royalty that it had subsequently sold to a third party that is purchasable by the Company at any time for a one-time payment of $10 million.
The Ambler lands host a number of deposits, including the high-grade copper-zinc-lead-gold-silver Arctic deposit, which was the focus of the PEA. The Arctic deposit is currently estimated at 23.8 million tonnes of indicated mineral resources grading 3.26% Cu, 4.45 % Zn, 0.76% Pb, 0.71 g/t Au and 53.2g/t Ag and 3.4 million tonnes of inferred mineral resources grading 3.22% Cu, 3.84% Zn, 0.58% Pb, 0.59g/t Au and 41.5g/t Ag.
The PEA describes the potential technical and economic viability of establishing a conventional open-pit mine, a mill complex and related infrastructure to process massive and semi-massive copper-zinc-lead-silver-gold mineralization from the Arctic Deposit. A minimum 12-year mine life supporting a nominal 10,000 t/d conventional grinding mill-and-flotation circuit is envisaged. The base case scenario assumes long-term metal prices of $2.90/lb for copper, $0.85/lb for zinc, $0.90/lb for lead, $22.70/oz for silver and $1,300/oz for gold. The after-tax NPV is $537.2 million or 17.9% IRR at an 8% discount rate for the Arctic Project on a 100% basis estimated at the beginning of the two-year construction period.
The PEA was prepared on a 100% ownership basis and all amounts are stated in US dollars unless otherwise noted.
The total estimated capital cost for the design, construction, installation and commissioning of the Arctic Project is estimated to be $717.7 million. The total sustaining capital costs is $164.4 million for the 12 year life of mine including equipment, tailings and other items. The capital cost estimate has been prepared in accordance with the AACE’s International Estimate Classification System, this cost estimate meets or exceeds the specifications for a Class 5 Estimate and has a deemed accuracy of ±35%. The estimate has a base date of Q2 2013 and no escalation beyond Q2 2013 was applied to the estimate.
The total LOM average operating cost for the proposed mine is estimated at $63.93/t milled. The estimate includes mining, processing, tailings management, general and administrative, surface services and public road toll costs. The cost is estimated based on a total LOM mill feed of 35.68 Mt from the open pit mine. The nominal annual process rate is approximately 3,650,000 t/a (LOM average annual process rate is approximately 2,973,435 t/a) or 10,000 t/d (LOM daily average rate is 8,146 t/d) at 365 d/a. The projected total payable metal production is 680,696 tonnes of copper, 826,398 tonnes of zinc, 131,200 tonnes of lead, 30,491,812 ounces of silver and 349,094 ounces of gold. For the purposes of this PEA study, it has been assumed that a toll would be paid based on AIDEA being able to obtain a $150 million 30-year bond at a 5% interest rate, which would result in the Arctic Project paying approximately $9.7 million each year for its 12-year mine life. The toll payments are assumed in the PEA to commence when the Arctic Project has reached commercial production. Using base case metal prices of $2.90/lb copper, $0.85/lb zinc, $0.90/lb lead, $1,300/oz gold and $22.70/oz silver, project value on a post-tax basis (NPV8%) is $537.2 million with an IRR of 17.9% . Full payback of the $717.7 million in initial capital costs is estimated to occur in year five of operations using base case metal prices. The proposed Arctic mine site is spread over a distance of approximately 6 km within the upper reaches of the Sub-Arctic Creek Valley. Primary access to the property is currently by air, using both fixed wing aircraft and helicopters. No surface access is currently in place. A MOU has been signed with AIDEA for the development of the AMDIAR which would provide access from the Dalton Highway to within 17 km of the Arctic Project.
The proposed development for the Arctic Project consists of the following major infrastructure: roads and an airstrip, mill buildings and related services facilities including maintenance and truck shops, and assay lab, water supply and distribution, waste management, fuel storage, on site explosive storage, power supply, tailings storage facility (“TSF”) and water management, water treatment plant, construction and permanent camp accommodation, waste rock storage facilities, and communication. All buildings and facilities will be constructed with appropriate heating, ventilation and air conditioning and fire protection systems, water distribution and plumbing systems, and dust control systems. A series of mine haul roads will be constructed from the open pit to the primary crusher, and as well as site roads to and from the truck shop, TSF, and to the Arctic Project airstrip.
Arctic Project - Property Description and Location
The Arctic Project is located in the Ambler mining district of the southern Brooks Range, in the Northwest Arctic Borough (“NWAB”) of Alaska. The Arctic Project is located 260 km east of the town of Kotzebue, 30 km north of the village of Kobuk, 260 km west of the Dalton Highway, an all-weather state maintained public road, at geographic coordinates N67.17° latitude and W156.38° longitude (Universal Transverse Mercator (UTM) North American Datum (NAD) 83, Zone 4 coordinates 7453080N, 613110E). The current size of the Ambler lands is approximately 65 km long x 8 km wide and comprises a total of 45,348 ha.
Figure 1: Regional Location Map
The Ambler lands comprise 45,348 ha of State of Alaska mining claims and US Federal patented mining claims in the Kotzebue Recording District. The Ambler land tenure consists of 1,358 contiguous claims, including 875 40-acre State claims, 481 160-acre State claims, and two Federal patented claims comprising 110 ha held in the name of NovaCopper US Inc. The Arctic Project is located near the southern edge of the centre of the claim block. The Federal patented claim corners were located by the US Geological Survey. There is no expiration date or labor requirement on the Federal patented claims. Rent for each State claim is paid annually to the Alaska Department of Natural Resources (“ADNR”). An Annual Labor Statement must be submitted annually to maintain the State claims in good standing.
In 1971, the US Congress passed the ANCSA which settled land and financial claims made by the Alaska Natives and provided for the establishment of 13 regional corporations to administer those claims. These are known as the Alaska Native Regional Corporations. One of these 13 regional corporations is NANA. ANCSA Lands controlled by NANA bound the southern border of the Property claim block. National Park lands are within 25 km of the northern property border.
Figure 2: Upper Kobuk Mineral Projects Lands Prospect Location Map
There are no known environmental liabilities due to previous operators or from our ongoing exploration activities at the Arctic Project. There has been no mine development or production on the Ambler lands.
Multiple permits are required during the exploration phase of the Arctic Project. Permits are issued from Federal, State, and Regional agencies, including: the Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”), the US Army Corps of Engineers (“USACE”), the Alaska Department of Environmental Conservation (“ADEC”), the Alaska Department of Fish and Game (“ADF&G”), the ADNR, and the NWAB. The State of Alaska permit for exploration on the Arctic Project, the Annual Hardrock Exploration Activity (“AHEA”) Permit, is obtained and renewed every five years through the ADNR - Division of Mining, Land and Water. NovaCopper holds an AHEA exploration permit in good standing with the Alaska DNR. The Arctic Project is within the NWAB thus requiring a Title 9 Miscellaneous Land Use permit for mineral exploration, fuel storage, gravel extraction, and the operation of a landfill. NovaGold held these permits in good standing during the 2004 to 2008 seasons and renewed the permits for the 2010 exploration season to 2015. The Bornite Camp, Bornite Landfill, Dahl Creek Camp, and the to-be-constructed Arctic Camp are permitted by the ADEC.
A number of statutory reports and payments are required to maintain the claims in good standing on an annual basis. As the Arctic Project progresses, additional permits for environmental baseline and detailed engineering studies will be necessary at federal, state, and local levels.
Arctic Project - Accessibility, Climate, Local Resources, Infrastructure and Physiography
Accessibility is one of the most significant challenges of developing the Arctic Project. There is no developed surface access to the Ambler mining district.
Primary access to the Arctic Project is by air, using both fixed wing aircraft and helicopters. There are four well maintained, approximately 1,500 m-long gravel airstrips located near the Arctic Project, capable of accommodating charter fixed wing aircraft. These airstrips are located 66 km west at Ambler, 46 km southwest at Shungnak, 36 km southwest at Kobuk, and 32 km southwest at Dahl Creek. There is daily commercial air service from Kotzebue to the village of Kobuk, the closest community to the Arctic Project. During the summer months, the Dahl Creek Camp airstrip is suitable for larger aircraft, such as C-130 and DC-6. In addition to the four 1,500 m airstrips, there is a 700 m airstrip located at the Bornite Camp, approximately 25 km southwest of the Arctic Deposit, and a 400 m airstrip located approximately 10 km southwest of the Arctic Deposit. The airstrip at Bornite is suited to smaller aircraft, which support the camp with personnel and supplies. A winter trail and a one-lane dirt road suitable for all-terrain vehicles or construction equipment links the Arctic Project’s main camp at Bornite to the 400 m Dahl Creek airstrip and camp southwest of the Arctic Deposit.
The climate in the region is typical of a sub-arctic environment. Exploration is generally conducted from late May until late September. Weather conditions on the Ambler lands can vary significantly from year to year and can change suddenly. During the summer exploration season, average maximum temperatures range from 10°C to 20°C, while average lows range from -2°C to 7°C (Alaska Climate Summaries: Kobuk 1971 to 2000). By early October, unpredictable weather limits regular helicopter travel to the Arctic Project. During winter months, the Arctic Project can be accessed by snow machine, track vehicle, or fixed wing aircraft. Winter temperatures are routinely below -25°C and can exceed -50°C. Annual precipitation in the region averages at 395 mm with the most rainfall occurring from June through September, and the most snowfall occurring from November through January.
The Arctic Project is located along the south slope of the Brooks Range, which separates the Arctic region from the interior of Alaska. Nearby surface water includes Subarctic Creek, the Shungnak and Kogoluktuk Rivers, the Kobuk River, and numerous small lakes. The Arctic Project is located at the eastern end of Subarctic Creek, a tributary of the Shungnak River to the west, along a ridge between Subarctic Creek and the Kogoluktuk River Valley. The property area is marked by steep and rugged terrain with high topographic relief. Elevations range from 30 masl along the Kobuk River to 1,180 masl on a peak immediately north of the Arctic Project area. The divide between the Shungnak and Kogoluktuk Rivers in the Ambler Lowlands is approximately 220 masl. The Kobuk Valley is located at the transition between boreal forest and Arctic tundra. Spruce, birch, and poplar are found in portions of the valley, with a ground cover of lichens (reindeer moss). Willow and alder thickets and isolated cottonwoods follow drainages, and alpine tundra is found at higher elevations. Tussock tundra and low, heath-type vegetation covers most of the valley floor. Intermittent permafrost exists on the Arctic Project.
Wildlife in the area include caribou, moose, Dall sheep, bears (grizzly and black), wolves, wolverines, coyotes, and foxes. Fish species include salmon, sheefish, arctic char, and arctic grayling. The Kobuk River, which briefly enters the UKMP lands on its southwest corner, is a significant salmon spawning river. Subarctic Creek, which does not contain anadromous fish, drains into the Shungnak River, which drains into the Kobuk River. The caribou on the property belong to the Western Arctic herd that migrates twice a year - south in August, from their summer range north of the Brooks Range, and north in March from their winter range along the Buckland River.
Currently, the Arctic Project does not have access to Alaska power and transportation infrastructure. Beginning in 2009, the Arctic Project has been the focus of the Ambler Mining District Access Corridor study. The State of Alaska has spent approximately US$10 M to identify proposed access routes and to initiate environmental baseline studies. The working group for this study consists of the Alaska Department of Transportation, the ADNR, the Governor’s Office, the AIDEA, NANA, and NovaCopper. The proposed Ambler Access Route is a 322 km road running east from the Property to the Dalton Highway.
The proposed Arctic Project mine site infrastructure is spread over a distance of approximately 6 km within the upper reaches of the Sub-Arctic Creek Valley. The proposed development for the Arctic Project consists of the following major infrastructure: roads and an airstrip, mill buildings and related services facilities including maintenance and truck shops, and assay lab, water supply and distribution, waste management, fuel storage, on site explosive storage, power supply, TSF and water management, water treatment plant, construction and permanent camp accommodation, waste rock storage facilities, and communication infrastructure.
The proposed mine-site infrastructure has been located to take advantage of local topography, minimize pumping requirements from the mill building to the TSF, minimize environmental impacts to Sub-Arctic Creek, minimize snow avalanche mitigation requirements, and to reduce the haul distance from the pit to the primary crusher and TSF.
The Arctic Deposit proposed access road branches off from the proposed AMDIAR and ends at the Arctic Deposit. Figure 3 shows the overall road location plan showing the relationship of the proposed access road to the proposed Brooks East corridor which eventually connects to the existing Dalton Highway 320 km from the access road intersection. The proposed access road is 17 km long from the AMDIAR corridor to the Arctic Project site.
Figure 3: Proposed Access to the Arctic Project Site
The proposed location for an airstrip sufficient to support project activities is located in the valley approximately 21 km from the Arctic Project site. Geotechnical data is not available for the site but it is assumed that the facility will require permafrost protection to ensure year round operations. The proposed airstrip will operate as a private aerodrome and prior permission will be required for all aircraft utilizing the site. The gravel airstrip will be approximately 1,524 meters long and capable of landing a Dash 8 - Q400/Hercules C130.
The Arctic Project will require power of 15 MW of peak load for 10,000 t/d operation demand. It is proposed that power will be generated by five self-contained 3.6 MW prime diesel generators. Four units will be in service with the fifth unit reserved for maintenance. Heat will be recovered from the generators and used to heat the mill, camp and related facilities.
Arctic Project - History
During the 1940’s and 1950’s BCMC, an exploration subsidiary of Kennecott, conducted regional reconnaissance exploration in the Cosmos Hills and the southern Brooks Range. Stream silt sampling in 1963 by BCMC revealed a significant copper anomaly in Arctic Creek roughly 17 km northeast of the previously identified Bornite deposit. The area was subsequently staked and, in 1967, eight core holes were drilled at the Arctic Deposit yielding impressive massive sulphide intercepts over an almost 500-m strike length. BCMC conducted intensive exploration on the property until 1977 and then intermittently through 1998. No drilling or additional exploration was conducted on the Arctic Project between 1998 and 2004.
Arctic Project - Historical Metallurgical Testwork
Metallurgical studies during the Kennecott era included: two initial mineralogical studies undertaken by the Kennecott Research Center (“KRC”) to evaluate and identify the potential beneficiation or metallurgical treatment of concentrates of the samples from the deposit and a subsequent 1999 Lakefield Research Ltd. (Lakefield) metallurgical test program to confirm and improve upon the results from the 1970s KRC test work program. In 2012, NovaCopper contracted SGS to conducted an extensive metallurgical program in support of the Artic PEA, the results of which are described and summarized below under the heading “Arctic Project - Metallurgical Testing”.
Arctic Project - Historical Geophysics
Prior to 1998, Kennecott conducted a series of geophysical surveys which are poorly documented or are unavailable to NovaCopper. In March 1998, Kennecott initiated an extensive helicopter-supported airborne electromagnetic (“EM”) and magnetic survey covering the entire VMS belt, including the Arctic Deposit. Kennecott identified eight EM anomalies which were deemed to have significant potential for mineralization and followed-up with additional gravity lines and/or Controlled Source Audio-frequency Magneto-Telluric (“CSAMT”) lines during 1998. Kennecott conducted no further geophysical field exploration in the district after 1998.
Arctic Project - Historical Drilling
Between 1967 and July 1985, Kennecott (BCMC) completed 86 holes (including 14 large diameter metallurgical test holes) totalling 16,080 m. In 1998, Kennecott drilled an additional 6 core holes totalling 1,492 m to test for: 1) extensions of the known Arctic resource; 2) grade and thickness continuity at Arctic; and 3) a nearby airborne geophysical anomaly. Drilling for all BCMC/Kennecott campaigns in the Arctic Deposit area (1966 to 1998) totals 92 core holes for a combined 17,572 m.
No drilling was performed on the project between 1999 and 2003. NovaGold took control of the project in 2004.
Arctic Project - Historical Geochemistry
Historic geochemistry for the district, compiled in the 1998 Kennecott database, includes 2,255 soil samples, 922 stream silt samples, 363 rock samples, and 37 panned concentrate samples. Data has been sourced from several companies including Kennecott, Sunshine Mining, Resource Associates of Alaska, and NANA. Sourcing of much of the data had been poorly documented in the database. During 1998, Kennecott renewed its effort in the district, and, as a follow-up to the 1998 EM survey, undertook directed soil and rock chip sampling in and around EM anomalies generated in the geophysical targeting effort. During this period Kennecott collected 962 soils and 107 rocks and for the first time used extensive multi-element inductively coupled plasma (“ICP”) analysis.
Arctic Project - Historical Resource Estimates
A series of historic mineral resources have been estimated for the Arctic Deposit, including Russell (1975), Brown (1985), Randolf (1990), Kennecott (1995). The most widely repeated historic mineral resource number is the updated 1995 Kennecott resource, produced in conjunction with the construction of the digital database for the Arctic Project. No supporting data or discussion of the basis of the resource estimation is presented. Table 1 summarizes the results of the 1995 estimate. This historical estimate is not categorized, and it is not known what the equivalent CIM category would be.
This historical resource estimate predates the development of NI 43-101 reporting guidelines, was not estimated in compliance with NI 43-101 procedures and should not be relied on. See “Cautionary Note to United States Investors.”
Table 1: Historical Resource Estimate - 1995
Basis Tons (Million Tons) Cu% Zn% Pb% Ag g/ton Au g/ton
Unknown 36.3 4.0 5.5 0.8 54.9 0.7
Arctic Project - Geologic Setting
Regional Geology
The Ambler district occurs along the southern margin of Brooks Range within an east-west trending zone of Devonian to Jurassic age submarine volcanic and sedimentary rocks (Hitzman et al. 1986). The district covers both: 1) VMS-like deposits and prospects hosted in the Devonian age Ambler Sequence (or Ambler Schist belt), a group of metamorphosed bimodal volcanic rocks with interbedded tuffaceous, graphitic and calcareous volcaniclastic metasediments; and 2) epigenetic carbonate-hosted copper deposits occurring in Devonian age carbonate and phyllitic rocks of the Bornite Carbonate Sequence. The Ambler Sequence occurs in the upper part of the Anirak Schist, the thickest member of the Schist belt or Coldfoot subterrane (Moore et al. 1994). VMS-like stratabound mineralization can be found along the entire 110 km strike length of the district. Immediately south of the Schist belt in the Cosmos Hills, a time equivalent section of the Anirak Schist includes the approximately 1 km thick Bornite Carbonate Sequence. Mineralization of both the VMS-like deposits of the Schist belt and the carbonate-hosted deposits of the Cosmos Hills has been dated at 375 to 387 Ma (Selby el al. 2009; McClelland et al. 2006).
In addition, the Ambler district is characterized by increasing metamorphic grade north perpendicular to the strike of the east-west trending units. The district shows isoclinal folding in the northern portion and thrust faulting to south (Schmidt 1983). The Devonian to Mississippian age Angayucham basalt and the Triassic to Jurassic age mafic volcanic rocks are in low-angle over thrust contact with various units of the Ambler Schist belt and Bornite Carbonate Sequence along the northern edge of the Ambler Lowlands.
Local/Property Geology
Rocks that form the Ambler Sequence consist of a lithologically diverse sequence of lower Paleozoic Devonian age carbonate and siliciclastic strata with interlayered mafic lava flows and sills and felsic tuffs. The clastic strata, derived from terrigenous continental and volcanic sources, were deposited primarily by mass-gravity flow into the sub-wavebase environment of an extending marginal basin.
Though the Ambler Sequence is exposed over 110 km of strike length, descriptions and comments herein will refer to an area between the Kogoluktuk River on the east and the Shungnak River on the west where we have focused the majority of our exploration efforts over the last decade.
The local base of the Ambler Sequence consists of variably metamorphosed carbonates historically referred to as the Gnurgle Gneiss. We interpret these strata as calc-turbidites, perhaps deposited in a sub-wavebase environment adjacent to a carbonate bank. Calcareous schists overlie the Gnurgle Gneiss and host sporadically distributed mafic sills and pillowed lavas. These fine-grained clastic strata indicate a progressively quieter depositional environment up section, and the presence of pillowed lavas indicates a rifting, basinal environment.
Overlying these basal carbonates and pillowed basalts is a section of predominantly fine-grained carbonaceous siliciclastic rocks which host a significant portion of the mineralization in the district including the Arctic Deposit. This quiescent section indicates further isolation from a terrigenous source terrain.
The section above the Arctic Deposit host stratigraphy contains voluminous reworked silicic volcanic strata with the Button Schist at its base. The Button Schist is a regionally continuous and distinctive albite porphyroblastic unit that serves as an excellent marker above the main mineralized stratigraphy. The paucity of volcanically derived strata below the Arctic Deposit host section and abundance above indicates that the basin and surrounding hinterlands underwent major tectonic reorganization during deposition of the Arctic Deposit section. Greywacke sands that we interpret as channeled high-energy turbidites occur throughout the section but concentrate high in the local stratigraphy.
Several rock units show substantial change in thickness and distribution in the vicinity of the Arctic Deposit that may have resulted from the basin architecture existing at the time of deposition. Between the Arctic Ridge, geographically above the Arctic Deposit, and the Riley Ridge to the west, several significant differences have been documented including: 1) the Gnurgle Gneiss, which is thickest in exposures along the northern extension of Arctic Ridge and appears to thin to the west; 2) mafic lavas and sills which thicken from east to west; they show thick occurrences in upper Subarctic Creek and to the west, but are sparsely distributed to the east; 3) the quartzite section, which within and above the Arctic sulphide horizon does not occur in abundance east of Arctic Ridge; it is thicker and occurs voluminously to the west; 4) the Button Schist which thickens dramatically to the west from exposures on Arctic Ridge; exposures to the east are virtually nonexistent; and 5) Greywacke sands which do not exist east of Subarctic Creek but occur in abundance as massive, channeled accumulations to the west, centered on Riley Ridge.
These data are interpreted by us to define a generally north-northwest-trending depocentre through the central Ambler District. Diamictite occurrences described below in concert with these formational changes suggest that the depocentre had a fault-controlled eastern margin with the basin deepening to the west. This original basin architecture appears to have controlled mineralization of the sulphide systems at Ambler and Shungnak (Dead Creek), concentrating fluid flow along structures on the eastern basin margin.
In addition to the underlying pre-deformational structural framework of the district suggested by the stratigraphic thickening of various facies around the Arctic Deposit, the Ambler Sequence is deformed by two penetrative deformational events that significantly complicate the distribution and spatial arrangement of the local stratigraphy; as described below.
Deformation: the earliest penetrative deformation event is associated with greenschist metamorphism and the development of regional schistosity. True isoclinal folds are developed and fold noses typically are thickened. The most notable fold is the Arctic antiform that defines the upper and lower limbs of the Arctic Deposit. The fold closes along a north-northeast- trending fold axis roughly mimicking the trace of Subarctic Creek and opening to the east. Importantly, the overturned lower limb implies that the permissive stratigraphy should be repeated on a lower synformal isocline beneath the currently explored limbs and would connect with the permissive mineralized stratigraphy to the northwest at Shungnak (Dead Creek).
Deformation: the earlier schistosity is in turn deformed by the deformational event that resulted in the local development of an axial planar cleavage. The deformational event is well defined throughout the Schist belt and results in a series of south verging open to moderately overturned folds that define a series of east-west trending folds of similar vergence across the entire Schist belt stratigraphies. This event is likely temporarily related to the emplacement of the Devonian Angayucham volcanics, the obducted Jurassic ophiolites and Cretaceous sediments over the Schist belt stratigraphies. In addition to the earlier penetrative deformation events, a series of poorly defined non-penetrative deformation events, likely as a consequence of Cretaceous extension, are seen as a series of warps or arches across the district. The interplay between the complex local stratigraphy, the isoclinal event, the overturned south verging event and the series of post-penetrative deformational events makes district geological interpretation often extremely difficult at a local scale.
Recent work by us defines the Arctic Deposit as two or more discrete horizons of sulphide mineralization contained in a complexly deformed isoclinal fold with an upright upper limb and an overturned lower limb hosting the main mineral resources. Nearby drilling suggests a third limb, an upright lower limb, likely occurs beneath the currently explored stratigraphy.
Mineralization occurs as stratiform semi-massive sulphide (“SMS”) to massive sulphide (“MS”) beds within primarily graphitic chlorite schists and fine-grained quartz sandstones. The sulphide beds average four meters in thickness but vary from less than one meter up to as much as eighteen meters in thickness. The bulk of the mineralization is within six modelled zones lying along the upper and lower limbs of the Arctic isoclinal anticline. All of the zones are within an area of roughly 1 km2 with mineralization extending to a depth of approximately 250 m below the surface. Mineralization characteristically varies from MS to SMS. Unlike more typical VMS deposits, mineralization is not characterized by steep metal zonation or massive pyritic zones. Mineralization is dominantly sheet-like zones of base metal sulphides with variable pyrite and only minor zonation usually on an extremely small scale. No stockworks or stringer zones in association with the mineralization have been observed. More importantly, the mineralization in general exhibits characteristics and textures common to replacement-style mineralization. Mineralization is predominately coarse-grained sulphides consisting mainly of chalcopyrite, sphalerite, galena, tetrahedrite, arsenopyrite, pyrite and pyrrhotite. Trace amounts of electrum and enargite are also present. Gangue minerals associated with the mineralized horizons include quartz, barite, white mica, black chlorite, talc, calcite, dolomite and cymrite.
Talc and magnesium chlorite are the dominant alteration products associated with the sulphide-bearing horizons. Talc alteration grades downward and outward to mixed talc-magnesium chlorite with minor phlogopite, into zones of dominantly magnesium chlorite, then into mixed magnesium chlorite-phengite with outer phengite-albite zones of alteration. Thickness of alteration zones vary with stratigraphic interpretation, but tens of meters for the outer zones is likely, as seen in phengite-albite exposures on the east side of Arctic Ridge. Stratigraphically above the sulphide-bearing horizons significant muscovite as paragonite is developed and results in a marked shift in sodium/magnesium ratios across the sulphide bearing horizons. Of particular note are the barium (“Ba”) species including barite, cymrite (a high-pressure Ba phyllosilicate), and Ba-bearing muscovite, phlogopite and biotite. These species associated with both alteration and mineralization has also been strongly remobilized during metamorphism (Schmandt 2009).
Historic interpretation of the genesis of the Ambler Schist belt deposits have called for a syngenetic VMS origin with steep thermal gradients in and around seafloor hydrothermal vents resulting in metal deposition due to the rapid cooling of chloride bound base metals. A variety of VMS types have been well documented in the literature (Franklin et al. 2005) with the Ambler Schist belt deposits most similar to deposits associated with a bimodal mafic dominant volcanism related to incipient rifting. The majority of field observations broadly support such a scenario at the Arctic Deposit and include: 1) the tectonic setting with Devonian volcanism in an evolving continental rift; 2) the geologic setting with bimodal volcanics including pillow basalts and limited felsic volcanic tuffs; 3) an alteration assemblage with well-defined magnesium-rich footwall alteration and sodium-rich hanging wall alteration; and 4) typical polymetallic base-metal mineralization with massive and semi-massive sulphides. Although the majority of field observations support a VMS genesis to the deposits of the Schist belt, a series of other observations and characteristics suggest a more direct genetic link with that of the carbonate-hosted Bornite Deposit in the Devonian Bornite Carbonate Sequence. Both deposit types have been dated at 375 to 387 Ma suggesting a clear temporal link.
The principal lithologic units captured in logging and mapping by us, in broad chronological order from oldest to youngest are as follows: greenstone, chlorite schist, talc schist, grey to black schists, metarhyolites, most notably the so-called button schist which serves as an important stratigrahuc marker, quartz muscovite schists, diamictites and greywackes
Arctic Project - Exploration
NovaGold began exploration of the Arctic Deposit and surrounding lands of the Schist belt in 2004 after optioning the property from Kennecott. Previous exploration on the Arctic Project during Kennecott’s tenure is summarized in “Arctic Project - History”. Field exploration was largely conducted during the period between 2004 to 2007 with associated engineering and characterization studies between 2008 and the present. Table 2 summarizes the exploration work conducted by NovaGold and us during our tenure from 2004 to the present.
Table 2: Summary of NovaCopper/NovaGold Exploration Activities Targeting VMS-style Mineralization in the Ambler Sequence Stratigraphy and the Arctic Deposit
Work Completed Year Details Focus
Geological Mapping
- - Arctic Deposit surface geology
- - Ambler Sequence west of the Arctic Deposit
- - COU, Dead Creek, Sunshine, Red
Geophysical Surveys
SWIR Spectrometry 2004 drill holes Alteration characterization
TDEM 2 loops Follow-up of Kennecott DIGHEM EM survey
13 loops District targets
6 loops Arctic extensions
Downhole EM 4 drill holes Arctic Deposit
Geochemistry
- - Stream silts - core area prospects
- - Soils - core area prospects
-
- Stream silts - core area prospects
- - Soils - Arctic Deposit area
Survey
Collar 2004 to 2011 GPS All 2004 to 2011 NovaCopper drill holes
2004, 2008 Resurveys Historical Kennecott drill holes
Photography/Topography - Photography/topography
Technical Studies
Geotechnical BGC Preliminary geotechnical and hazards
ML/ARD SRK Preliminary ML and ARD
Metallurgy SGS Preliminary mineralogy and metallurgy
Geotechnical and Hydrology BGC Preliminary rock mechanics and hydrology
Project Evaluation
Resource Estimation SRK Resource estimation
PEA SRK PEA
SRK PEA update
Note: SWIR = short wave infrared; ML = metal leaching; BGC = BGC Engineering Inc.; SRK = SRK Consulting
The results of the above exploration programs have been incorporated into the PEA results. For further details, refer to the PEA.
Arctic Project - Mineralization
In 2013, we updated the mineralization models, representing massive and semi-massive VMS-style mineralization. Geometrically, the mineralization is confined to six lenticular mineralized zones concentrated along an isoclinal fold hinge. Five of the six SMS zones contain a core of MS material. For more details regarding length, width, depth and continuity together with a description of the type, character and distribution of the mineralization see “Local/Property Geology” above.
Arctic Project - Drilling
Drilling at the Arctic Deposit has been ongoing since its initial discovery in 1965. Approximately 31,907 m of drilling in 135 drill holes have been completed at the deposit or on potential extensions in 23 campaigns spanning 45 years. All of the drill campaigns have been run under the auspices of either: 1) Kennecott and its subsidiaries, or 2) NovaGold, our predecessor company.
We and our predecessor company NovaGold, have drilled 17,983 m in 59 different drill holes targeting the Arctic Deposit and several other prospects of the Ambler Schist belt. Table 3 summarizes all of the NovaCopper/NovaGold tenure drilling on the Property.
Table 3: Summary of NovaCopper/NovaGold Drilling
Year
Meters No. of
Drill Holes
Sequence
Purpose of Drilling
2,996 AR04-78 to 88 Deposit scoping and verification
3,030 AR05-89 to 97 Extensions to the Arctic Deposit
2006*** 3,100 AR06-98 to 109 Property-wide exploration drilling
2,606 AR07-110 to 113 Deep extensions of the Arctic Deposit
2008* 3,306 AR08-114 to 126 Grade continuity and metallurgy
2011** 1,193 AR11-127 to 131 Geotechnical studies
2012*** 1,752 SC12-014 to 017 Exploration drilling - Sunshine
Notes:
* A total of 12 of the 14 holes drilled in 2008 were utilized in the 2012 SRK resource update. Two holes were maintained in sealed frozen storage to provide additional metallurgical samples if required.
** Geotechnical holes drilled in 2011 are not included in the current resource estimation contained herein.
*** Drilling in 2006 and 2012 targeted exploration targets elsewhere in the VMS belt.
Over the Arctic Project’s history, a relatively limited number of drill companies have been used by Kennecott and NovaCopper/NovaGold at the Arctic Deposit. During Kennecott’s tenure on the Property, Sprague and Henwood, a Pennsylvania-based drilling company was the principal contractor. Sprague and Henwood utilized company manufactured drill rigs during their tenure on the Property. Many of their rigs remain at the Bornite Deposit and constitute a historical inventory of 1950s and 1960s exploration artifacts. Tonto Drilling provided services to Kennecott during Kennecott’s short return to the district in the late 1990s. NovaGold and we have utilized Boart Longyear as our only contractor. The 2004 to 2012 NovaCopper/NovaGold drill programs used a single skid-mounted LF-70 core rig, drilling HQ or NQ core. Wireframes were updated in 2013 to incorporate interpretation of all drill results to date and have been included in the resource estimate.
Arctic Project - Sampling Methodology and Analysis
The data for the Arctic Deposit resource was generated over three primary drilling campaigns: 1966 to 1986 when BCMC, a subsidiary of Kennecott Copper Corporation was the primary operator, 1998 when Kennecott Minerals resumed work after a long hiatus, and 2004 to present with NovaGold and now us as the operators.
Sampling of drill core prior to 1998 by BCMC focused primarily on the mineralized zones; numerous intervals of weak to moderate mineralization were not sampled during this period. During the 1998 campaign, Kennecott did sample some broad zones of alteration and weak mineralization, but much of the unaltered and unmineralized drill core was left unsampled. Little documentation on historic sampling procedures is available.
Between 2004 and 2006, NovaGold conducted a systematic drill core re-logging and re-sampling campaign of Kennecott and BCMC era drill holes AR-09 to AR-74. NovaGold either took 1 to 2 m samples every 10 m, or sampled entire lengths of previously unsampled core within a minimum of 1 m and a maximum or 3 m intervals. The objective of the sampling was to generate a full ICP geochemistry dataset for the Arctic Deposit and ensure continuous sampling throughout the deposit. Sample preparation procedures for NovaGold era work are described below.
All drill core was transported by helicopter in secure core “baskets” to either the Dahl Creek camp or the Bornite camp for logging and sampling. Sample intervals were determined by the geologist during the geological logging process. Sample intervals were labelled with white paper tags and butter (aluminum) tags which were stapled to the core box. Each tag had a unique number which corresponded to that sample interval.Sample intervals were determined by the geological relationships observed in the core and limited to a three meter maximum length and one meter minimum length. An attempt was made to terminate sample intervals at lithological and mineralization boundaries. Sampling was generally continuous from the top to the bottom of the drill hole. When the hole was in unmineralized rock, the sample length was generally three meters, whereas in mineralized units, the sample length was shortened to one to two meters. Geological and geotechnical parameters were recorded based on defined sample intervals and/or drill run intervals (defined by the placement of a wooden block at the end of a core run). Logged parameters were reviewed annually and slight modifications have been made between campaigns, but generally include rock type, mineral abundance, major structures, specific gravity (“SG”), point load testing, recovery and rock quality designation measurements. Drill logs were converted to a digital format and forwarded to the Database Manager, who imported them into the master database. Core was photographed and then brought into the saw shack where it was split in half by the rock saw, divided into sample intervals, and bagged by the core cutters. Not all drill core was oriented; however, core that had been oriented was identified to samplers by a line drawn down the core stick. If core was not competent, it was split by using a spoon to transfer half of the core into the sample bag. Once the core was sawed, half was sent to ALS Chemex Laboratories (“ALS Chemex”) in Vancouver for analysis and the other half was initially stored at the Dahl Creek camp but has been consolidated at the storage facility at the Bornite camp facilities or at our warehouse in Fairbanks. Shipment of core samples from the Dahl Creek camp occurred on a drill hole by drill hole basis. Rice bags, containing two to four poly-bagged core samples each, were marked and labelled with the ALS Chemex address, project and hole number, bag number, and sample numbers enclosed. Rice bags were secured with a pre-numbered plastic security tie and a twist wire tie and then assembled into sling loads for transport by chartered flights on a commercial airline to Fairbanks, where they were met by a contracted expeditor for deliver directly to the ALS Minerals preparation facility in Fairbanks. In addition to the core, control samples were inserted into the shipments at the approximate rate of one standard, one blank and one duplicate per 20 core samples:
Standards: four standards were used at the Arctic Deposit. The core cutter inserted a sachet of the appropriate standard, as well as the sample tag, into the sample bag.
Blanks: were composed of an unmineralized landscape aggregate. The core cutter inserted about 150 g of blank, as well as the sample tag, into the sample bag.
Duplicates: the assay laboratory split the sample and ran both splits. The core cutter inserted a sample tag into an empty sample bag.
Samples were logged into a tracking system on arrival at ALS Chemex, and weighed. Samples were then crushed, dried, and a 250 g split pulverized to greater than 85% passing 75 μm.
Gold assays were determined using fire analysis followed by an atomic absorption spectroscopy finish. The lower detection limit was 0.005 ppm gold; the upper limit was 1,000 ppm gold. An additional 34-element suite was assayed by inductively coupled plasma-atomic emission spectroscopy (“ICP-AES”) methodology, following nitric acid aqua regia digestion. The copper analyses were completed by atomic absorption (“AA”), following a triple acid digest.
The accreditations of Primary and Secondary assay laboratories used during the 1966 - 1986 campaigns are not known. ALS Analytical Lab (Fairbanks, Alaska) was the Primary assay lab between 1998 - present. ALS Chemex has attained International Organization for Standardization (ISO) 9001:2000 registration. In addition, the ALS Chemex laboratory in Vancouver is accredited to ISO 17025 by Standards Council of Canada for a number of specific test procedures including fire assay of gold by AA, ICP and gravimetric finish, multi-element ICP and AA assays for silver, copper, lead and zinc.
During 2013, we conducted a 26% audit of the NovaGold era assay database fields: sample interval, Au, Ag, Cu, Zn, and Pb. This audit is documented in a series of memos (Brown 2011; West 2013). Our staff did not identify and/or correct any transcription and/or coding errors in the database prior to resource estimation. We also retained independent consultant Caroline Vallat, P.Geo. of GeoSpark Consulting Inc. to: 1) re-load 100% of the historical assay certificates, 2) conduct a QA/QC review of paired historical assays and NovaGold era re-assays; 3) monitor an independent check assay program for the 2004 to 2008 and 2011 drill campaigns; and 4) generate QA/QC reports for the 2004 to 2008 and 2011 drill campaigns.
Arctic - Security of Samples
Security measures taken during historical Kennecott and BCMC programs are unknown to NovaGold or us. We are not aware of any reason to suspect that any of these samples have been tampered with. The 2004 to 2011 samples were either in the custody of NovaGold personnel, contractors or the assay laboratories at all times as discussed above, and the chain of custody of the samples is well documented.
Arctic Project - Mineral Resource Estimate
The mineral resource estimate was prepared by completed by Mike O’Brien, Pr.SciNat (SACNASP#400295/87) of Tetra Tech with an effective date of the resource estimate as July 30, 2013.
The mineral resource model prepared by Tetra Tech considers diamond drill holes drilled by different operators during the period 1965 to 2011. The majority of the assaying has been completed in recent years by us and our previous parent company NovaGold. The mineral resource for the Arctic Project is supported by 43 core holes (approximately 13,500 m) drilled by NovaGold and 92 core holes (approximately 17,600 m) drilled by previous owners Kennecott, and/or a Kennecott subsidiary. The geological and assay database used to estimate the Arctic Project mineral resources have been reviewed and audited by Tetra Tech.
Leapfrog™ software (version 2.5.1) was used to review and verify the resource estimation domains, prior to being imported into Isatis™ software (version 2012.1) to prepare assay data for geostatistical analysis, variography, block model construction, metal grade estimation and mineral resource tabulation. Mineral Resources were estimated into five MS and six SMS lenses, and then combined for an overall grade for the mineralized portion of the 10 m by 10 m by 5 m block. Extreme lead and gold assays were capped prior to compositing. Ordinary kriging and inverse distance squared estimates were run, with ordinary kriging used for resource reporting and inverse distance squared used for validation. Search parameters were constrained within each mineralized domain and required an optimum number of 15 composites, minimum number of 5 composites, minimum number of 2 drill holes, and maximum search distance range of 200 m. In general, blocks categorized as Indicated were supported by at least two drill holes within a 75 m search radii, and blocks categorized as Inferred were supported by at least 2 drill holes within a 150 m search radii. Estimated resources for the Arctic Deposit are reported in the following Table 4 and Table 5.
The Arctic Project has no known reserves.
The PEA is preliminary in nature and includes inferred mineral resources that are considered too speculative geologically to have the economic considerations applied to them that would enable them to be categorized as mineral reserves. There is no certainty that the estimates contained in the PEA will ever be realized. Mineral resources that are not mineral reserves do not have demonstrated economic viability.
Table 4 Indicated Resource Estimate for the Arctic Project (NSR Cut-off of $35/t)
Cautionary Note to United States Investors concerning estimates of Indicated Resources. This section uses the term “indicated resources”. We advise United States investors that these terms are not recognized by the SEC. United States investors are cautioned not to assume that estimates of indicated mineral resources are economically minable, or will be upgraded into measured mineral resources. See “Risk Factors” and “Cautionary Note to United States Investors.”
Category
Mt Cu
(%) Zn
(%) Pb
(%) Au
(g/t) Ag
(g/t) Cu
(Mlb) Zn
(Mlb) Pb
(Mlb) Au
(Moz) Ag
(Moz)
Indicated 23.848 3.26 4.45 0.76 0.71 53.2 1,713 2,338 400.9 0.55 40.8
Notes: 1.
These resource estimates have been prepared in accordance with NI 43-101 and the Canadian Institute of Mining, Metallurgy and Petroleum (CIM) Definition Standards. Mineral resources that are not mineral reserves do not have demonstrated economic viability.
2.
Mineral Resources are reported within mineralization wireframes, contained within an Indicated pit design using an assumed copper price of $2.90/lb, zinc price of $0.85/lb, lead price of $0.90/lb, silver price of $22.70/oz, and gold price of $1,300/oz.
3.
Appropriate mining costs, processing costs, metal recoveries and inter ramp pit slope angles were used to generate the pit design.
4.
The $35.01/t milled cut-off is calculated based on a process operating cost of $19.03/t, G&A of $7.22/t and site services of $8.76/t. NSR equals payable metal values, based on the metal prices outlined in Note 2 above, less applicable treatment, smelting, refining costs, penalties, concentrate transportation costs, insurance and losses and royalties.
5.
The LOM strip ratio is 8.39.
6.
Rounding as required by reporting guidelines may result in apparent summation differences between tonnes, grade and contained metal content.
7.
Tonnage and grade measurements are in metric units. Contained copper, zinc and lead pounds are reported as imperial pounds, contained silver and gold ounces as troy ounces.
Table 5 Inferred Resource Estimate for the Arctic Project (NSR Cut-off of $35/t)
Cautionary Note to United States Investors concerning estimates of Inferred Resources. This section uses the term “inferred resources”. We advise United States investors that these terms are not recognized by the SEC. The estimation of inferred resources involves far greater uncertainty as to their existence and economic viability than the estimation of other categories of resources. United States investors are cautioned not to assume that estimates of inferred mineral resources exist, are economically minable, or will be upgraded into measured or indicated mineral resources. See “Risk Factors” and “Cautionary Note to United States Investors.”
Category
Mt Cu
(%) Zn
(%) Pb
(%) Au
(g/t) Ag
(g/t) Cu
(Mlb) Zn
(Mlb) Pb
(Mlb) Au
(Moz) Ag
(Moz)
Inferred 3.363 3.22 3.84 0.58 0.59 41.5 43.2 0.06 4.5
Notes: 1.
These resource estimates have been prepared in accordance with NI 43-101 and the Canadian Institute of Mining, Metallurgy and Petroleum (CIM) Definition Standards. Mineral resources that are not mineral reserves do not have demonstrated economic viability. Inferred resources have a great amount of uncertainty as to their existence and whether they can be mined legally or economically. It cannot be assumed that all or any part of the Inferred resources will ever be upgraded to a higher category.
2.
Mineral Resources are reported within mineralization wireframes, contained within an Inferred pit design using an assumed copper price of $2.90/lb, zinc price of $0.85/lb, lead price of $0.90/lb, silver price of $22.70/oz, and gold price of $1,300/oz.
3.
Appropriate mining costs, processing costs, metal recoveries and inter ramp pit slope angles were used to generate the pit design.
4.
The $35.01/t milled cut-off is calculated based on a process operating cost of $19.03/t, G&A of $7.22/t and site services of $8.76/t. NSR equals payable metal values, based on the metal prices outlined in Note 2 above, less applicable treatment, smelting, refining costs, penalties, concentrate transportation costs, insurance and losses and royalties.
5.
The LOM strip ratio is 8.39.
6.
Rounding as required by reporting guidelines may result in apparent summation differences between tonnes, grade and contained metal content.
7.
Tonnage and grade measurements are in metric units. Contained copper, zinc and lead pounds are reported as imperial pounds, contained silver and gold ounces as troy ounces.
Arctic Project - Mining Operations
The Arctic Project is not currently in production; for contemplated exploration or development activities see below.
Arctic Project - Exploration and Development
As noted in the summary Arctic Project - Overview above, we engaged Tetra Tech to prepare a PEA for the Arctic Project. The following summary describes the main results and assumptions of the PEA not previously discussed above.
The PEA is based on a conventional truck-and-shovel, open-pit mine design at a single pit. The mining schedule was developed based on a maximum mill capacity of 10,000 t/d. The Arctic Project’s total mine life is 13 years, including 1 year of pre-stripping followed by 12 years of production. The pit uses four pushbacks and a minimum mining width of 40 m. Over the 13-year life, the pit is producing 35.7 Mt of mineralized material and 299.4 Mt of waste rock. The LOM stripping ratio is 8.39 and the stripping ratio excluding the pre-stripping waste rock is 7.94. The mining schedule does not currently consider a low-grade stockpiling option but this can be assessed in more detail in future studies.
Mineral Processing and Metallurgical Testing
Since 1970, metallurgical test work has been conducted to determine the flotation response of various samples extracted from the Arctic Deposit. In general, the samples tested produced similar metallurgical performances. In 2012, SGS Mineral Services (“SGS”) conducted a metallurgical test program to further study metallurgical responses of the samples produced from Zones 1, 2, 3, and 5 of the Arctic Deposit. The flotation test procedures used talc pre-flotation, conventional copper-lead bulk flotation and zinc flotation, followed by copper and lead separation. In general, the 2012 test results indicated that the samples responded well to the flowsheet tested. Below is a summary of average results of the locked cycle tests (without copper and lead separation).
The copper recoveries to the bulk copper-lead concentrates ranged from 89 to 93% excluding the Zone 1 & 2 composite which produced a copper recovery of approximately 84%; the copper grades of the bulk concentrates were 24 to 28%.
Approximately 92 to 94% of the lead was recovered to the bulk copper-lead concentrates containing 9 to 13% lead.
The zinc recovery was 84.2% from Composite Zone 1 & 2, 93.0% from Composite Zone 3 and 90.5% from Composite Zone 5. On average, the zinc grades of the concentrates produced were higher than 55%, excluding the concentrate generated from Composite Zone 1 & 2, which contained only 44.5% zinc.
Gold and silver were predominantly recovered into the bulk copper-lead concentrates. Gold recoveries to this concentrate ranged from 65 to 80%, and silver recoveries ranged from 80 to 86%.
Using an open circuit procedure, the copper and lead separation tests on the bulk copper-lead concentrate produced from the locked cycle tests generated reasonable copper and lead separation. The copper concentrates produced contained approximately 28 to 31% copper, while the grades of the lead concentrates were in the range of 41% to 67% lead. Also, it appears that most of the gold reported to the copper concentrate and on average the silver was equally recovered into the copper and lead concentrates.
The 2012 grindability test results showed that the Bond ball millwork index tests ranged from 6.5 to 11 kWh/t and abrasion index tests fluctuated from 0.017 to 0.072 g for the mineralized samples. The data indicates that the samples are neither resistant nor abrasive to ball mill grinding. The materials are considered to be soft or very soft in terms of grinding requirements.
Recovery Methods
A 10,000 t/d process plant has been designed to process the massive and semi-massive sulphide mineralization of the Arctic Property. The main economic elements found in the deposit are copper, zinc, lead, and associated gold and silver. The process plant will operate two twelve hour shifts per day, 365 days per year with an overall plant availability of 92%. The process plant will produce three concentrates: 1) copper concentrate, 2) zinc concentrate, and 3) lead concentrate. Gold and silver are expected to be payable at a smelter and are recovered in both the copper and lead concentrates. The process plant feed will be supplied from the Arctic open pit mine.
The mill feed will be hauled from the open pit to a primary crushing facility where the material will be crushed by a jaw crusher to a particle size of 80% passing 125 mm.
The crushed material will be ground by two stages of grinding, consisting of one SAG mill and one ball mill in closed circuit with hydrocyclones (SAB circuit). The hydrocyclone overflow with a grind size of approximately 80% passing 70 µm will first undergo pre-talc flotation, and then be processed by conventional bulk flotation (to recover copper, lead, and associated gold and silver), followed by zinc flotation. The rougher bulk concentrate will be cleaned and followed by copper and lead separation to produce a lead concentrate and a copper concentrate. The final tailings from the zinc flotation circuit will be pumped to the TSF. Copper, lead, and zinc concentrates will be thickened and pressure-filtered before being transported by truck to a port and shipped to smelters.
The LOM average mill feed is expected to contain 2.28% copper, 0.53% lead, 3.13% zinc, 0.5 g/t gold, and 37 g/t silver. According to the mine plan developed for the PEA study and metallurgical test results, the LOM average metal recoveries and concentrate grades are projected below:
copper concentrate recovery: 87.1% copper; 57.9% gold; 40.2% silver; copper grade: 29%
lead concentrate recovery: 74.0% lead; 6.8% gold; 40.2% silver; lead grade: 50%
zinc concentrate recovery: 86.8% zinc; zinc grade: 56%.
Tailings and Storage Facility
The co-disposal TSF will be a fully lined facility consisting of rockfill embankment constructed across the Sub-Arctic Creek drainage, creating an impoundment that will extend up the drainage. The rockfill embankment will be constructed to an ultimate crest elevation of 655 mamsl with the embankment being raised in stages to minimize the initial capital construction cost. During operations, potential acid generating (PAG) waste rock will be placed at the bottom and sides of the basin forming layers with consecutive disposal on tailings that will be filling the voids. The tailings has the potential to generate acid and, therefore, the tailings and the PAG waste rock will be placed under water and remain permanently submerged in order to reduce the potential for acid generation. Additional studies will be required to determine the most suitable method of co-disposal and potential requirements for acid rock drainage (ARD) management and mitigation programs will need to be part of the design of the TSF.
The TSF will be required to contain 110.5 Mm3 total over the 12-year LOM, with 23.8 Mm3 to accommodate the tailings at an assumed stored dry density of 1.5 t/m3 and 86.7 Mm3 of PAG waste rock at an assumed stored dry density of 1.9 t/m3. The TSF will be sited as a staged rockfill embankment with an upstream geomembrane liner. The starter embankment will have a crest elevation of 560 m and impound 1 year of mining production, which is approximately 670,000 m3 of tailings and 12.3 Mm3 of waste rock.
Arctic Project - Environmental Considerations
Environmental baseline data collection was initiated in 2007, including surface water quality sampling, wetlands mapping, stream flow monitoring, aquatic life surveys, subsistence, meteorological monitoring, and acid base accounting sampling. Additional baseline environmental data in the Ambler Lowlands, the Subarctic Creek drainage, the Shungnak River drainage and downstream receiving environments will be required to support future mine design, development of an environmental impact statement, permitting, construction and operations.
The Arctic Project has the potential to significantly improve work opportunities for local and regional residents. In October 2011, we signed an agreement with NANA which in addition to consolidating landholdings in the Ambler district, has language establishing native hiring preferences and preferential use of NANA subsidiaries for contract work. Furthermore, the agreement formalized an Oversight Committee, with equal representation from NANA and us, to regularly review project plans and activities. In addition, a Subsistence Subcommittee has been formed to protect subsistence and the Iñupiaq way of life and a Workforce Development Subcommittee is also in place to address current and future employment needs. We meet monthly, during summer months, with the residents of Kobuk, Shungnak and Ambler, the three villages closest to the project area. We also meet annually with eight other NANA region villages including Noatak, Kivalina, Kotzebue, Kiana, Deering, Buckland, Selawik and Noorvik, for the purpose of updating residents on project plans and fielding their questions and concerns. We have also developed a good working relationship with the NWAB government.
The Arctic Project will be subject to a mine permitting process which will include compliance with the National Environmental Policy Act and will require a number of major mine permits from state and federal agencies as well as a significant number of minor permits. Although a number of federal conservation units are located in the general vicinity of the Arctic Project, including but not limited to the Gates of the Arctic National Parks, Kobuk Preserve, Selawik National Wildlife Refuge, and Kobuk Valley and Selawik Wilderness areas, there presence does not change the permitting process nor add to the number of permits required for the Arctic Project.
We will be required to develop a formal project description and detailed reclamation and closure plan to support a successful permit application strategy. The mine plan will embrace the concept of “design for closure”. In order to reduce any lasting risk of environmental impacts, the plan will minimize surface disturbances during operations and promote long-term stability of the site after closure.
No assurance can be given that new laws and regulations will not be enacted or that exiting laws and regulations will not be applied in a manner that could limit or curtail the Arctic Project. Amendments to current laws, regulations, licenses and permits governing operations and activities of mining companies, or more stringent implementation thereof, could have a material adverse impact on the Arctic Project and cause increases in capital expenditures or production costs, or reduction in levels of production, or abandonment, or delays in the development of the business.
Arctic Project - Current Activities
The focus of work on the Arctic Project in 2013 was the production of the PEA. Field work at the Arctic Project was limited during 2013 to reconnaissance work, minor geochemical processing and regional mapping. Exploration drilling was focused on the Bornite deposit in 2013.
Bornite Project, Ambler District, Alaska
Bornite Project
Except for the information under the heading “Bornite Project - Recent Developments” and except as otherwise stated, the scientific and technical information relating to the South Reef and Ruby Creek zones of the Bornite Project contained in this Form 10-K is derived from, and in some instances is an extract from, the technical report titled “NI 43-101 Technical Report for the Bornite Deposit, South Reef and Ruby Creek zones, Northwest Alaska” dated effective January 31, 2013 (the “Bornite Report”) prepared by Bruce Davis, FAusIMM and Robert Sim, P. Geo of BD Resource Consulting, Inc. (“BDRC”), and who are Qualified Persons as defined in NI 43-101. Scott Petsel, P. Geo, an employee to the Company and a Qualified Person as defined in 43-101, approved the scientific and technical information under the heading “Bornite Project - Recent Developments.” The information regarding the Bornite Project, the South Reef zone and the Ruby Creek zone is based on assumptions, qualifications and procedures which are not fully described herein. Reference should be made to the full text of the Bornite Report which has been filed with certain Canadian securities regulatory authorities pursuant to NI 43-101 and is available for review on SEDAR at www.sedar.com and on EDGAR at www.sec.gov.
Bornite Project - Property Description and Location
The UKMP Projects which encompasses the Bornite deposit and the previously reported Arctic deposit are located approximately 260 km east of Kotzebue, Alaska and 460 km northwest of Fairbanks, Alaska. The closest village is the community of Kobuk, approximately 17 km to the south situated along the banks of the Kobuk River. The Bornite Project constitutes a land package of approximately 97,483 hectares and is governed by the NANA Agreement. See “History of NovaCopper - Agreement with NANA Regional Corporation”.
Bornite Project - Accessibility, Climate, Local Resources, Infrastructure, and Physiography
The Bornite Project is located in Northwest Alaska in the Cosmos Hills on the southern flank of the Brooks Range. It is approximately 67.1 ° north latitude and 156.38 ° west longitude, approximately 260 km east of Kotzebue, Alaska and 460 km northwest of Fairbanks, Alaska. Kobuk is the closest community to Bornite. There is daily air service from Kotzebue to Kobuk. Twenty-six kilometers of improved gravel road connect Kobuk to the camp. On the road to the Bornite camp are the Dahl camp and a 1,460 meter airstrip. During the summer months the Dahl camp airstrip is suitable for larger aircraft such as C-130 and DC-6. A second, shorter airstrip is adjacent to the Bornite camp. This is suitable for smaller aircraft to support the Bornite camp with personnel and supplies. The two other villages close to Bornite are Shungnak, 16 km downriver from Kobuk, and Ambler, 48 km further downriver from Shungnak. The discussion regarding the accessibility challenges relating to the Arctic Project, particularly with respect to the development of an access road from the Dalton Highway, is applicable to the Bornite Project as well. (See “Arctic Project - Overview”).
The Bornite camp is 64 km north of the Arctic Circle. Average rainfall is approximately 43 cm per year while average snowfall is approximately 142 cm per year. Summers are generally mild and sunny while winters are extremely dark and cold. Extreme temperatures recorded in Kobuk range from 32°C in summer to -56°C in winter.
Year-round exploration is not possible with the current camp facilities, so the field season is May to October. The Bornite camp closes during winter and a caretaker is on site during the months of November through April. Power and electricity are provided by diesel generators.
Except for resident personnel, the logistical resources necessary for the exploration work are limited. Most equipment and supplies are flown by charter flights from either Fairbanks or Kotzebue. Some supplies are flown in from Anchorage, Alaska.
In 2011, the camp was expanded to twenty sleeping tents, three administrative tents, two shower/bathroom tents, one medical tent, and one dining/cooking tent. With these additions, the camp capacity was increased to 49 beds. A 27 meter by 9 meter core logging facility was also built in summer of 2011.
In 2012, the camp was further expanded with the addition of a laundry tent, a women's shower/washroom tent, a recreation tent, several additional sleeping tents, and a twice-as-large kitchen tent. Camp capacity increased to 71 beds. The septic field was upgraded to accommodate the increase in camp population. One of the two-person cabins was winterized for use by the winter caretaker. A permitted landfill was established to allow for the continued cleanup and rehabilitation of the historic shop facilities and surroundings.
The Dahl Creek camp is an overflow facility to the Bornite camp. This camp has a main cabin for dining and administrative duties, and a shower facility. Sleeping facilities include two hard sided sleeping areas with 7 beds (primarily used for staff), two four-person sleeping tents and three two-person sleeping tents for a total of 21 beds. There are support structures including a shop and storage facilities.
The Bornite Project is located on Ruby Creek on the northern edge of the Cosmos Hills. The Cosmos Hills are part of the southern flank of the Brooks Range in Northwest Alaska. Topography in the area is moderately rugged. Maximum relief in the Cosmos Hills is approximately 1000 meters with an average of 500 to 700 meters. Talus covers the upper portions of the hills. Glacial and fluvial sediments occupy valleys.
Alder brush and spruce grows in protected valleys, but exposed terrain is tundra-covered. Water is abundant. Discontinuous permafrost occurs throughout the area and is more prevalent on north-facing slopes.
Bornite Project - History
Kennecott and Bear Creek Mining Tenure
Regional exploration began in the early 1900s when gold prospectors noted copper occurrences in the hills north of Kobuk, Alaska. In 1947, local prospector Rhinehart “Rhiny” Berg along with various partners traversing in the area located outcropping mineralization along Ruby Creek (Bornite) on the north side of the Cosmos Hills. They subsequently staked claims over the Ruby Creek showings and constructed an airstrip for access. In 1957, Bear Creek Mining Company (“BCMC”), Kennecott's exploration subsidiary, optioned the property from Berg.
Exploration drilling in 1961 and 1962 culminated in the discovery of the No.1 Ore Body in what is referred to as the Upper Reef where DDH-RC-34 cut 20 meters of 24% copper. The discovery of the No.1 Ore Body led to the development of an exploration shaft in 1966. The shaft which reached a depth of 328 meters encountered a significant watercourse and was flooded near completion depth. The shaft was subsequently dewatered and an exploration drift developed to provide access for sampling, mapping and to accommodate underground drilling to further delineate the No.1 Ore Body. A total of 59 underground holes were drilled and after the program the shaft was allowed to re-flood.
In unison with ongoing exploration at Bornite, BCMC initiated preliminary metallurgical test work in 1961. A total of 32 assay rejects samples from five AX diamond drill holes weighing approximately 68 kilograms from drill holes (RC-34, 54, 60, 61 and 65) that penetrated mainly the No.1 Ore Body were submitted for analysis.
The discovery of the Arctic Project in 1965 prompted a hiatus in exploration at Bornite. In the late 1990s, Kennecott resumed its evaluation of the Bornite deposit and the mineralization in the Cosmos Hills with an intensive soil, stream, and rock chip geochemical sampling program using 32 element ICP analysis. Grid soil sampling yielded 765 samples. Ridge and spur sampling resulted in an additional 850 soil samples in the following year. Skeletonized core samples (85 samples) from key historic drill holes were also analyzed using 32 element ICP analytical methods. Geochemical sampling identified multiple areas of elevated copper and zinc in the Bornite region.
Kennecott completed numerous geophysical surveys as an integral part of exploration throughout their tenure on the property. Various reports, notes, figures, and data files stored in Kennecott’s Salt Lake City, Utah exploration office indicated that geophysical work included, but was not limited to, the following:
Airborne magnetic and EM surveys (fixed-wing INPUT) (1950s)
Gravity, single point, Audio-Frequency Magneto-Telluric (“AMT”), EM, borehole and surface IP/resistivity surveys (1960s)
Gravity, airborne magnetic, and CSAMT surveys (1990s)
We have little information or documentation associated with these geophysical surveys except those conducted in the 1990’s. Where data are available in earlier surveys, the lack of details in data acquisition, coordinate systems and data reduction procedures limit their usefulness. The only complete geophysical report available concerns down hole IP/resistivity results. Most notable of the 1990’s surveys is the 1996 Bouger gravity survey from the Bornite deposit into the Ambler lowlands. The Bornite deposit itself is seen as a significant 3 milligal anomaly. Numerous 2 to more than 6 milligal anomalies occur under cover in the Ambler lowlands and near the Aurora and Pardner Hills occurrences.
The wide range of geophysical techniques used in and around the deposit over a span of 40 years probably indicates the difficulty Kennecott/BCMC was having directly detecting ore. When applying EM and IP/resistivity methods, the problem appears to be that deeper mineralization is often masked by the response of near-surface conductive and polarizable rocks.
In addition to the geophysical surveys conducted by Kennecott, the Alaska DNR and Geometries completed an aeromagnetic survey of portions of the Ambler district in 1974-1975.
Bornite Historical Resource Estimations
All of the historic resource estimates presented below were made prior to the implementation of NI 43-101. They do not conform to NI 43-101 reporting standards and should not be relied upon or interpreted as such. They are presented here for information purposes only.
Lund (1961): The earliest and most widely repeated resource number reported 91 million tons at 1.2% Cu in an unconstrained polygonal resource estimate. At a constrained 1% Cu cut-off grade, 21.2 million tons of 3.04% Cu and at a 2.5% Cu cut-off, 5.2 million tons of 5.83% Cu were reported. The estimation is based on an 11.0 ft3/ton tonnage factor for the Lower Reef or lower grade mineralization and a 10.0 ft3/ton tonnage factor for the higher grade Upper Reef mineralization. It is not known if the tonnage factors were based on any direct specific gravity measurements of the Bornite drill core. Metals such as silver and cobalt were not considered in any of the historical estimations.
C.T. Penney (1968): For the No.1 Ore Body, reported 180,000-200,000 tons at 8.4% Cu.
Reed (1971): Apparently tabulated using a grade times thickness cut-off criterion, for the Upper Reef and Lower Reef reported a total of 35.7 M tons at 2.15% Cu.
Sichermann (1974): The estimation utilized a polygonal methodology and is not considered entirely accurate as down-hole surveys were not available for all drill holes and mineralization lenses were observed to be erratic. A 10.5 ft3/ton tonnage factor for >1% Cu mineralization and an 8.0 ft3/ton tonnage factor for >4% Cu mineralization was applied. Two different resource estimates are documented; these estimations report 5 million tons (4.56 million tonnes) at 4% Cu and 40 million tons (36.2 million tonnes) at 2% Cu, respectively, without reporting cut-off grades. The sources of these estimations are unknown.
In 1997, Macfarlane conducted a more rigorous resource estimation of the Ruby Creek (Bornite) deposit. This estimation used Vulcan 3D modeling and resource estimation software. A series of grade shells at 0.2%, 0.5% and 1.0% copper were manually constructed on sections and imported into Vulcan. Within each shell, separate resource calculations at 0.5%, 1.0%, 2%, and 4.0% copper cut-off grades were made. The grade shells were constructed irrespective of various lithologies or mineralization styles. Attempts to create meaningful semi-variograms for copper mineralization were unsuccessful. Lacking useful semi-variograms, an inverse distance squared weighting methodology was used to estimate the resource. Results of the estimation are shown in Table 6.
Table 6: Bornite Historical Resource (Kennecott, 1997)
An approximation of the specific gravity, based on the relationship of copper grade to specific gravity, was supplied by Kennecott. No support for the approximation was presented. The author recognized that the tonnages for massive pyrite areas with low grade copper zones were significantly underestimated.
Bornite Project - Geological Setting and Mineralization
The Bornite Project is located within the Arctic Alaska Terrane, a sequence of mostly Paleozoic continental margin rocks that make up the Brooks Range and North Slope of Alaska. It is within the Phyllite Belt geologic subdivision, which together with the higher grade Schist Belt, stretches almost the entire length of the Brooks Range and is considered to represent the hinterland of the Jurassic Brooks Range orogeny. The southern margin of the Phyllite Belt is marked by melange and low angle faults associated with the Kobuk River fault zone, while the northern boundary is thought to be gradational with the higher grade metamorphic rocks of the Schist Belt (Till et al., 2008) which contains the previously discussed Arctic deposit. The autochthonous stratigraphy of the Ambler district is characterized by lower greenschist to epidote-amphibolite facies, pelitic, carbonate and local metavolcanic rocks.
The geology of the Ruby Creek resource area of the Bornite Project is composed of alternating beds of carbonate rocks (limestone and dolostone) and calcareous phyllite. Limestone transitions laterally into dolostone, which hosts the majority of the mineralization and is considered to be hydrothermal in origin. Spatial relationships and petrographic work establish dolomitization as genetically related to early stages of the copper mineralizing system.
Potentially the earliest and most prominent structure in the resource area is the northeast-trending, steeply northwest-dipping Iron Mountain structure which is interpreted as either a pre or syn-mineral (Devonian) growth fault; or, the post-mineral (Cretaceous) axis of a small overturned kink fold. Numerous observations can be made to support both interpretations. Importantly, the distribution of pre-mineral sedimentary breccias and the mineralization which is relatively undeformed along the corridor suggest an early ore-controlling origin of the structure likely modified by later post mineral deformation.
To the north, the Bornite Carbonate sequence is in fault contact with the Beaver Creek phyllite along the moderately north-dipping Beaver Creek fault.
Bornite Project - Mineralization
Copper mineralization in the South Reef zone consists of one to as many as three mineralized intervals (at a 0.5% cut-off) coalescing into a crudely stratiform body hosted in secondary dolomite developed at or near the Iron Mountain structure. The body which is approximately 250 m to 300 m wide and 750 m long varies in true thickness from roughly 10 m to as much as 170 m.
Copper mineralization at the Ruby Creek zone consists of stacked, crudely-stratiform bodies hosted in secondary dolostone. These approximately tabular zones are semi-equant in plan view and range from approximately 75 to 1700 meters in dimension (at a 0.2% copper cut-off). True thicknesses vary greatly and range from roughly 1 to greater than 150 meters with thicknesses up to 200 meters where multiple zones are closely stacked.
High grade mineralization-massive copper sulfides of greater than 10% copper-occurs as stratiform bodies with footprints of 50 to 150 meters and thicknesses ranging from 1 to 17 meters.
The Bornite deposit area is divided into three generalized zones or loci of increased grade and thickness: the South Reef zone and the Ruby Creek zone comprised of the Lower Reef and Upper Reef. The Lower and Upper Reefs of the Ruby Creek zone are separated stratigraphically, but lie along a common north-easterly trend, and the South Reef is located about 400 to 600 m to the southeast along a similar north-easterly trend. Copper mineralization at the Bornite Project is comprised of chalcopyrite, bornite, and chalcocite distributed in stacked, roughly stratiform zones exploiting favorable stratigraphy within the dolomitized limestone package. Mineralization occurs, in order of increasing grade, as disseminations, irregular and discontinuous stringer-style veining, breccia matrix replacement, and stratiform massive sulfides. Typical high grade mineralization is composed of strong chalcocite, bornite and chalcopyrite mineralization.
The distribution of copper mineral species is zoned around the bottom-center of each zone, with bornite-chalcocite-chalcopyrite at the core and progressing outward to chalcopyrite-pyrite. Additional volumetrically minor copper species include carrollite, digenite, tennantite-tetrahedrite, and covellite. Stringer pyrite and locally significant sphalerite occur above and around the copper zones, while locally massive pyrite and sparse pyrrhotite occur in association with siderite alteration below copper mineralization in the Lower Reef.
In addition to the copper mineralization, significant cobalt mineralization (e.g. RC11-0187 with 34.7m at 0.10% Co in the South Reef, RC11-0184 with 5.5m at 0.44% Co in the Upper Reef) is found accompanying bornite-chalcocite mineralization. Cobalt occurs with high grade copper as both carrollite (Co2CuS4) and as cobaltiferous rims on recrystallized pyrite grains.
Appreciable silver values (e.g. RC11-0184 with 5.5m at 30.9g/t) are also found with bornite-rich mineralization in the South Reef and Ruby Creek zones.
The Bornite carbonate sequence host to the mineralization at the Bornite Project is exposed over approximately 16 km along the north slope of the Cosmos Hills and to a lesser extent on the southern margin of the Cosmos Hills arch. Numerous areas of hydrothermal dolomitization and copper mineralization occur across the entire width of outcropping carbonates and are the focus of ongoing regional exploration. Most notable of the known prospects are the Pardner Hill and Aurora Mountain areas, where outcropping mineralization was discovered and drill-tested during the Kennecott era.
The Pardner Hill prospect is located five kilometers west of the Bornite deposit and consists of a three kilometer long Cu (± Zn) soil and rock geochemical anomaly in rubble cropping ferroan dolostone. Kennecott drilled 16 holes in the area and defined a stratiform copper mineralized zone roughly 150 by 400 meters and varying from five to 35 meters thick at the southern end of the geochemical anomaly. Mineralization remains open down-dip and to the south.
Dolomitization and anomalous copper and zinc geochemistry also characterize the Aurora Mountain prospect, located six kilometers west of Bornite. Anomalies are distributed along a two kilometer mineralized horizon about a third of which has been tested by four Kennecott era drill holes.
Bornite Project - Exploration Targeting
Exploration in and around the Bornite Project by Kennecott from 1957 to 1998 is summarized above. In addition to the extensive drilling completed during the more than 40 year tenure of Kennecott in the district, Kennecott completed widespread surface geochemical sampling, regional and property scale mapping, and numerous geophysical surveys employing a wide variety of techniques. The majority of this data has been acquired by us and forms the basis for renewed exploration that targets Bornite-style mineralization in the Bornite carbonate sequence.
NovaGold as the precursor company to us began to actively pursue an agreement to explore the Bornite Project with NANA in 2005 resulting in an initial airborne geophysical survey in 2006. Negotiations on the consolidation and exploration of the entire Ambler district continued for the next several years culminating in the NANA Agreement in October, 2011.
With the NANA Agreement approaching completion, NovaGold initiated work in 2010 to begin to characterize the exploration potential and depositional controls by re-logging and re-analyzing select drill holes with a Niton portable XRF to determine geochemical variability. In 2011, NovaGold began an initial drill program to verify the historical database and exploration potential and conducted additional geophysical surveys to provide better targeting tools for continued exploration in the district. In 2012, we expanded the IP geophysical coverage completing a major district-wide survey that targeted the prospective Bornite Carbonate sequence. Subsequent resourcedrilling between 2011 and 2013based on the exploration targeting is discussed in the Bornite Project - Mineral Resource Estimatessection below.
2006 NovaGold Exploration
In 2006, NovaGold contracted Fugro World Wide to complete a detailed helicopter DIGHEM magnetic, electromagnetic and radiometric survey of the Cosmos Hills. The survey covered a rectangular block roughly 11 by 30 miles (18 by 49 kilometers which totaled 2852 line kilometers). The survey was flown at 300 meter line spacing with a line direction of N20E. The DIGHEM helicopter survey system produced detailed profile data of magnetics, EM responses and radiometrics (total count, uranium, thorium and potassium) and was processed into maps of magnetics, discrete EM anomalies, EM apparent resistivities, and radiometric responses.
2010 NovaGold Exploration
In 2010, in anticipation of completing the NANA Agreement, NANA granted NovaGold permission to begin low level exploration at the Bornite Project consisting of re-logging and re-analysis of select drill holes using a Niton portable XRF.
2011 NovaGold Exploration
In light of the relatively poor understanding of appropriate ground geophysical techniques for the prospect and the extensive cover over perspective stratigraphic terrain dipping shallowly to the north in the Ambler lowlands, NovaGold in 2011 contracted Zonge International to conduct both dipole-dipole complex resistivity induced polarization (“CRIP”) and natural source audiomagnetotelluric (“NSAMT”) surveys over the prospect to develop better geophysical tools for further exploration.
NSAMT data were acquired along two lines totaling 5.15 line-km, with one line oriented generally N-S through the center of the survey area and one being the southernmost E-W line in the survey area. CRIP data were acquired on five lines - four E-W lines and one N-S line - for a total coverage of 14.1 line-km and 79 collected CRIP stations. The initial objective of the survey was to investigate geological structures and the distribution of sulfides possibly associated with copper mineralization.
Results from the paired surveys show that wide spaced dipole-dipole resistivity is the most effective technique in direct targeting of the mineralization package. Broad low resistivity anomalies reflecting the pyrite haloes and mineralization appear to define the limits of the fluid package. Well defined and often very strong chargeability anomalies are also present but appear in part to be masked by phyllitic units which also have strong chargeability signatures. The NSAMT show similar resistivity features as the IP but are less well resolved.
2012 NovaCopper Exploration
Based on the success of the 2011 geophysical program, we contracted Zonge International to conduct a major district-wide dipole/dipole IP survey, a down-hole IP radial array survey in the South Reef, and an extensive physical property characterization study of the various lithologies to better interpret the existing historical geophysical data.
Zonge completed 48 line km of 200 m dipole/dipole IP during 2012, infilling and expanding on the 2011 survey, and stretching across the most prospective part of the outcropping permissive Bornite Carbonate sequence. The results show a well-defined low resistivity area associated with mineralization and variable IP signatures attributed both to mineralization and the overlying Beaver Creek phyllite. Numerous target areas occur in the immediate Bornite area with lesser targets occurring in the Aurora Mountain and Pardner Hill areas and in the far east of the survey area. During the 2012 drill program at South Reef, a single drill hole was targeted on a low resistivity area approximately 500 m to 600 m southeast of the South Reef trend. Although the drill hole intersected some dolomite alteration in the appropriate stratigraphy, no significant sulphides were encountered.
In addition to the extensive ground IP survey, Zonge also completed 9 km of down-hole radial IP using an electrode placed in drill hole RCDH12-0197 to further delineate the trend and potential in and around the South Reef. Mineralization shows as broad conductive areas in both the Ruby Creek and the South Reef zones. The resistivity survey indicates there is potential to expand the South Reef zone to the northeast and to the south.
Bornite Project - Drilling
The Bornite Project has been explored by 217 drill holes, totaling 70,003 meters. These holes were completed during 20 different annual campaigns dating from 1957 through 2012. Three underground programs totalling 51 drill holes and targeting the No.1 Ore Body at Ruby Creek were completed between 1966 and 1968. For information on additional drilling completed in 2013, see Bornite Project - Recent Developments.
All of the drill campaigns except the 2011 NovaGold campaign and our 2012 campaign, 14 and 22 drill holes, respectively, were undertaken by Kennecott. Sprague and Henwood, a Pennsylvania-based drill company completed all of the Kennecott drilling except the 1997 program (3 drill holes) completed by Tonto Drilling Services, Inc. (a NANA Dynatech company). The 2011 NovaGold and our 2012 programs utilized Boart Longyear Company.
In the initial years of drilling at the Bornite Project, Kennecott relied on AX core (1.1875 inch diameter) but as deeper holes pursuing mineralization down dip to north became the norm, use of BX core (1.625 inch diameter) was gradually implemented. Small diameter AX rods would twist under the high torque and deviate in undetermined directions. From 1966 to1967 drilling activity at Bornite moved underground and EX diameter core (0.845 inch diameter) was implemented to define the No.1 Ore Body. Drilling activity moved back to the surface in 1968 and from 1968 to 1972, BX core was most commonly drilled. In later years, core size increased to NX (2.125 inch diameter) and in 2011 to NQ (1.874 inch or 47.6 mm diameter) and HQ (2.5 inch or 63.5 mm diameter). Progressively larger diameter drill rods have been continually increased over the years in an attempt to minimize drill hole deviations.
Drill Campaigns
In October 1965, Kennecott began a shaft to further investigate the No.1 Ore Body. In 1966 the shaft reached the 297 meter level. At this level a 91 meter crosscut was driven due north to the No.1 Ore Body. The shaft was continued to 328 meter deep to prepare a sump and loading pocket. On October 27, 1966 a small blast to excavate a bay at the bottom of the shaft opened a watercourse. The in-flood of water quickly exceeded the pump capacity and within 12 hours the 328 meter shaft was flooded to within 13 meters from the surface.
Prior to the shaft flooding, six diamond drill holes were completed from the 700 level shaft station and 22 drill holes from the 975 shaft station and cross cut. In 1967 the shaft bottom was partially sealed then pumped out and an additional twenty-four holes were drilled from the 975 level and the 700 level shaft stations.
Between 1968 and 1983, Kennecott completed very limited drilling at the Bornite Project largely focusing on extensions to the No.1 ore Body or targeting the South reef area. Kennecott subsequently sold the property to NANA and no exploration drilling occurred between 1983 and 1997. In 1997 Kennecott leased the Bornite Project from NANA and drilled five exploration holes.
In 2011, NovaGold negotiated a preliminary agreement with NANA, allowing NovaGold to conduct an exploration program on the Bornite Project in anticipation of the broader scoped NANA Agreement which was close to completion. That year NovaGold drilled 14 holes totaling 5,819 meters.
The 2011 NovaGold drill program had three objectives: 1) to obtain new geologic and assay data to verify and validate the previous work done by Kennecott; 2) to test extensions of the known deposit; and 3) to drill new areas for potential mineralization and geologic information near the deposit. The highlight of the program was drill hole RC11-187 which intersected 178 meters of 4% copper and led to the discovery and recognition of the South Reef zone as a major potential resource.
In 2012, based on the results of its 2011 exploration drilling at South Reef, we began aggressively delineating mineralization in that zone. A total of 21 drill holes and one nearby exploration drill hole were completed totaling 15,457 m. The drilling was patterned on hexagonal closely-packed drill spacing with individual holes spaced approximately 100 m apart on the apices of equilateral triangles. Drilling in 2012 targeted expansion and definition of the South Reef zone culminating in the current resource estimation discussed below.
All of the drill data collected during the Kennecott drilling programs (1958 - 1997) was logged on paper drill logs, copies of which are stored in the Kennecott Exploration office in Salt Lake City, Utah. Electronic scanned copies of the paper logs, in PDF format, are held by us.
In 1995, Kennecott entered the drill assay data, the geologic core logs, and the down hole collar survey data into an electronic format. In 2009, NovaGold geologists verified the geologic data from the original paper logs against the Kennecott electronic format and then merged the data into a Microsoft SQL database.
For the 2011 and 2012 NovaGold/NovaCopper drill programs, a commercial computer based core logging system was used. The core logging software, GeoSpark Logger was developed by GeoSpark Consultants Inc. The data logger program stores the information logged in a Microsoft SQL database which in turn is validated then merged into the main database. In 2012, the system was modified to allow each laptop to sync daily to the master Data Logger database residing on the Bornite Camp server. The server was periodically backed up and the database was sent to Vancouver, British Columbia for backup storage. The camp server is stored in the Fairbanks field office at the end of each field season. Hardcopies of the 2011 and 2012 drill core logs are stored in the Fairbanks office. Scanned copies of the Kennecott-era drill logs are also stored in the Fairbanks field office.
In general, core recovery averaged >90 percent with only slightly poorer recovered in phyllitic rocks. Mineralized dolomitic units had excellent recoveries in excess of 93 percent. South Reef drilling, in 2012, showed core recovery rates of 88.8% overall and 88.3% in the mineralized dolomite and massive sulphide intervals.
Bornite Project - Sample Preparation, Analyses and Security
During the 2011 and 2012 drill programs at the Bornite Project, we utilized strict sampling protocols developed for the nearby Arctic deposit in 2004 and documented in written NovaGold procedures manuals for all subsequent years. The following discussion outlines the standard protocols used by us in 2011 and 2012. The entire length of each hole was sampled excluding recovered overburden. Core-logging geologists marked each sample interval on the core and labelled the core boxes using a china marker. A tear-off sample tag was affixed to the core box at the beginning of each sample interval which typically ranged from 1 to 3 meters in length though samples as short as 0.35 meters and as long as 6.09 meters were taken in a few instances. Sample intervals within mineralized zones were limited to a 2 meter maximum length. Sample breaks were placed at lithological contacts and changes in alteration and sulfide mineralization. There are no known drilling or recovery issues that could materially impact accuracy.
The core was digitally photographed and cut in half using diamond core saws after logging at the on-site core facility. If the drill core intersected mineralization at a shallow angle, the core logging geologist would place a guide line on the core to ensure a representative sample. Oriented core was cut along the orientation mark to preserve the orientation of the core unless otherwise marked by the core geologist. One-half of the cut core was returned to the box for storage on-site and the other half was bagged and labeled for sample processing and analysis.
Sampling of drill core by Kennecott during their tenure on the property focused primarily on moderate to strongly mineralized zones. Numerous intervals of weak to moderate mineralization remain un-sampled in the historic drill core and in the 1997 campaign, where Kennecott did not intersect significant mineralization, no analyses were undertaken for resource evaluation. Intervals of moderate to strong sulfide mineralization were selected for sampling and analyses were conducted by the Union Assay Office Inc. of Salt Lake City, Utah, prior to the establishment of the on-site lab in 1962.
The 2011 and 2012 halved core samples were crushed to 70% passing two millimeters and a nominal 250 gram split was pulverized to 85% passing 75 microns at the ALS Minerals Fairbanks facility. The resulting pulp was sent to ALS Minerals Vancouver lab for analysis. Gold content was determined by fire assay fusion with an atomic absorption (AA) finish from a nominal 30 gram split. Initial results for all other elements (48) were determined via four acid digestion and both ICP-MS and ICP-AES analysis on a nominal 25 gram split. Samples with over limit values for copper and zinc (>10,000ppm) were re-run using a four acid digestion, which was diluted for an ICP-AES or AA finish. Samples greater than 40% Cu were re-run using a volumetric titration finish after a four acid digestion.
We continued our QA/QC program first initiated by NovaGold in 2004. Three QA/QC samples selected by the logging geologist were inserted into every 20 sample batch. QA/QC samples included one duplicate, one blank, and one standard reference material (“SRM”). Duplicate samples were prepared at the prep facility by taking a second split from the entire prepped sample. In 2011, a commercial landscape marble was used as the blank material for every drill hole, except one. Barren marble core, from a previous abandoned drill hole, was used as the blank material for one 2011 drill hole and all 2012 drill holes.
In 2011, a very low grade SRM was inserted in batches that consisted of unmineralized core. The other three SRMs, ranging in accepted copper values of 0.193% to 2.37%, were inserted to match the estimated copper content of the core. One SRM was sourced from CDN Resource Laboratories Ltd. labs in Langley, British Columbia and the other three were from Ore Research and Exploration in North Victoria, Australia. In 2012, a very low grade SRM was inserted in batches that consisted of unmineralized core. The other four SRMs, ranging in accepted copper values of 0.193% to 10.403%, were inserted to match the estimated copper content of the core. Two SRMs were sourced from CDN labs; one was sourced from Ore Research & Exploration Pty Ltd., North Victoria, Australia; and, the remaining two were sourced from Geostats Pty Ltd. of Western Australia. Assay performance for blank and SRM samples was within acceptable limits.
Check samples for a second lab were selected by the project geologist once all the primary assay results were received. The check samples consisted of 5% of the total samples from only the mineralized lithologies (carbonates and semi to massive sulfides) and were randomly selected. These samples were forwarded to Acme labs, also located in Vancouver, British Columbia. No bias is apparent.
The QA/QC results are reviewed by the database administer in the Vancouver office.
All 2011 and 2012 core logging data including sample intervals and descriptions were directly entered into a Microsoft Access based application called DataLogger, created by, and customized for the project by GeoSpark Consulting Inc., of Nanaimo, British Columbia. In 2011, this data was imported on a weekly basis into the DataShed database located on a server in the NovaGold Vancouver Office. In 2012, the system was modified to allow each laptop to sync daily to the master Data Logger database residing on the Bornite camp server. Assay data was imported directly into DataShed from csv files either downloaded or e-mailed from ALS Labs.
Each cut sample interval was placed in a 6-mil polyethylene bag with the sample number written in black permanent marker with an attached Tyvek sample card stub detailing the sample number and bar code. Two to four samples were placed into a larger rice bag labeled with the ALS Minerals address, project (hole) number, bag number, and sample numbers enclosed. The rice bag was secured with a pre-number plastic security tie and a twist wire tie. The security tie number was recorded, along with the total weight. The rice bags were transported from the Bornite Camp to Fairbanks by chartered flights on a commercial carrier. A contracted expeditor met the chartered flights at the airport to pick-up up the sample shipment and deliver directly to the ALS Minerals prep facility, 1060 Bush Street, Fairbanks. Each drill hole was dispatched as one project, though many shipments were necessary per hole due to the limited capacity of the charter flights. ALS processed each batch as they arrived at the prep facility; however, ALS held the pulps until the entire drill hole was prepared so that the drill hole was analyzed as a single project or job in Vancouver. ALS Minerals did not notify us that any security ties were missing or broken or that any other issues occurred with the sample shipments or packaging.
In addition to the analytical data, density measurements for the 2011 and 2012 programs were performed on-site by internal personnel. The specific gravity of selected samples was calculated by weighing the entire assay interval dry and then submersed it in water. No known density measurements were performed by Kennecott.
Our independent Qualified Person (BD Resource Consulting) considers the Bornite Project drill core sampling protocols, security and analytical procedures to meet accepted industry standard procedures. Core recovery is good and there is no evidence that diamond drill recovery could materially impact the assay sampling results.
Analytical and Test Laboratories
ALS Minerals was used for all primary analyses submitted in 2011 and 2012. The core samples were sent from site to the ALS prep facility in Fairbanks, Alaska. The samples were processed and reduced to pulps at this facility and sent to ALS Minerals Vancouver, British Columbia lab for analysis. ALS Minerals is located at 2103 Dollarton Highway, North Vancouver, British Columbia, V7H 0A7. ALS Minerals complies with and is accredited for the requirements of ISO 9001:2008 and ISO/IEC 17025:2005 General Requirements for the Competence of Testing and Calibration Laboratories.
The ALS Minerals Vancouver lab forwarded the selected check sample pulps to Acme Analytical Labs, also in Vancouver. Acme Labs is located at 1020 Cordova St. East, Vancouver, British Columbia V6A 4A3. Acme Labs is compliant with the ISO 9001 Model for Quality Assurance and ISO/IEC 17025 General Requirements for the Competence of Testing and Calibration Laboratories.
Historical core was analyzed by Union Assay Lab in Salt Lake City, Utah and by the on-site Kennecott lab established in 1964.
Bornite Project - Mineral Resource Estimates
The Ruby Creek zone mineral resource estimate has been prepared by Bruce M. Davis, FAusIMM of BD Resource Consulting, Inc. (“BDRC”). The South Reef zone mineral resource estimate has been prepared by Bruce M. Davis FAusIMM, BDRC and Robert Sim P.Geo., SIM Geological Inc. (“SGI”) both independent “Qualified Persons” as defined in NI 43-101. We filed a NI 43-101 compliant Technical Report, with an effective date of January 31, 2013 titled “Technical Report for the Bornite Deposit, South Reef and Ruby Creek Zones, Northwest Alaska, USA”.
The Bornite Project has no known reserves.
This section describes the resource estimation methodology and summarizes the key assumptions considered by BDRC. In the opinion of BDRC, the resource evaluation reported herein is a sound representation of the copper mineral resources found at the Bornite Project at the current level of sampling. The mineral resources have been estimated in conformity with generally accepted CIM “Estimation of Mineral Resource and Mineral Reserves Best Practices” guidelines and are reported in accordance with the Canadian Securities Administrators’ National Instrument 43-101. Mineral resources are not mineral reserves and do not have demonstrated economic viability. There is no certainty that all or any part of the mineral resource will be converted into mineral reserve.
The databases used to estimate the Bornite Project mineral resources were audited and the current drilling information is deemed sufficiently reliable to interpret with confidence the boundaries for copper mineralization and the assay data are deemed sufficiently reliable to support mineral resource estimation.
Vulcan version 8.1.4 was used to review, verify, and design the Ruby Creek resource estimation domains, prepare assay data for geostatistical analysis, construct the block model, estimate metal grades, and tabulate mineral resources. The non-commercial software, including Geostatistical Library (GSLib) family of software, and Sage 2001© were used for geostatistical analysis and variography. At Ruby Creek, the average sample length is 1.64 m, with the majority of samples collected at 1.5 m intervals. A 5-m composite length was selected for Ruby Creek to be consistent with the 5 m block size, and to avoid segmenting long sample intervals. At Ruby Creek, 5-m composited samples containing greater than 10% copper in any domain are limited to a maximum distance of influence of 20 m laterally and 10 m vertically, during block grade estimation. Overall, this approach resulted in a 14% reduction in the total contained metal in the deposit. Search parameters were constrained within each mineralized domain and required an optimum number of 12 composites, minimum number of one composite, minimum number of one drill hole, and maximum search distance range of 300 m. In general, blocks categorized as Indicated were supported by at least three drill holes within a 50 m search radii, and blocks categorized as Inferred were supported by at least two drill holes within an 88 m search radii.
MineSight® v7.50 was used to review, verify, and design the South Reef resource estimation domains, prepare assay data for geostatistical analysis, construct the block model, determine a “dynamic anisotropy” search orientation, estimate metal grades, and tabulate mineral resources. The non-commercial software, including Geostatistical Library (GSLib) family of software was used for geostatistical analysis. At South Reef, the average sample length is 1.22 m, with the majority of samples collected at one meter intervals; sample length varies depending on local geologic conditions. A one meter composite length was selected for South Reef. At South Reef, seven one meter composite samples inside the probability shell domain have been top-cut to a grade of 25% copper. During interpolation inside the probability shell, composites that exceeded a grade of 10% copper were limited to a maximum distance of influence of 50 m. Outside of the probability shell, composites greater than 10% copper were restricted to a maximum distance of influence of 25 m. Overall; these limitations resulted in a 10.2% loss in copper metal in the resource model. Search parameters were constrained within each mineralized domain and required an optimum number of 21 composites, minimum number of five composites, minimum number of one drill hole, and maximum search distance range of 500 m. In general, blocks categorized as Inferred were supported by at least one drill hole within a 100 m search radii and exhibit reasonable confidence in the grade and continuity of mineralization.
Ruby Creek and South Reef copper grades were estimated using ordinary kriging. The ordinary kriging models were evaluated using a series of validation approaches including visual inspection, model checks for change of support, comparison of interpolation methods, and swath plots (drift analysis).
Bornite Project - Mineral Resource Statement
Mineral Resources are classified in accordance with the 2010 CIM Definition Standards for Mineral Resources and Mineral Reserves.
The Qualified Person for the Mineral Resource estimate is Bruce Davis a Qualified Person independent of us. Mineral Resources for the Bornite Project are found in Table 7 and Table 8.
Table 7: Indicated Resource Estimate for the Bornite Project
See “Cautionary Note to United States Investors” This section uses the term “indicated resources”. We advise United States investors that these terms are not recognized by the SEC. United States investors are cautioned not to assume that estimates of indicated mineral resources are economically minable, or will be upgraded into measured mineral resources. See “Risk Factors” and “Cautionary Note to United States Investors”.
Notes: 1.
These resource estimates have been prepared in accordance with NI 43-101 and the Canadian Institute of Mining, Metallurgy and Petroleum (CIM) Definition Standards. Mineral resources that are not mineral reserves do not have demonstrated economic viability. See “Risk Factors” and “Cautionary Note to United States Investors.”
2.
Mineral Resources stated as contained within a manually constructed potentially economic resource limiting pit shell using metal price of $3.00/lb for copper, mining costs of $1.50/tonne, processing costs of $10.00/tonne, 100% recoveries and an average pit slope of 45 degrees.
3.
Mineral resources at a 1.0% cut-off are considered as potentially economically viable in an underground mining scenario based on an assumed projected copper price of $2.75/lb and total site operating costs of $60 per tonne.
4.
Rounding as required by reporting guidelines may result in apparent summation differences between tonnes, grade and contained metal content.
5.
Tonnage and grade measurements are in metric units. Contained copper are reported as imperial pounds.
6.
All amounts are stated in U.S. dollars unless otherwise noted.
Table 8: Inferred Resource Estimate for the Bornite Project
See “Cautionary Note to United States Investors” This section uses the term “inferred resources”. We advise United States investors that these terms are not recognized by the SEC. The estimation of inferred resources involves far greater uncertainty as to their existence and economic viability than the estimation of other categories of resources. United States investors are cautioned not to assume that estimates of inferred mineral resources exist, are economically minable, or will be upgraded into measured or indicated mineral resources. See “Risk Factors” and “Cautionary Note to United States Investors”.
Notes: 1.
These resource estimates have been prepared in accordance with NI 43-101 and the Canadian Institute of Mining, Metallurgy and Petroleum (CIM) Definition Standards. Mineral resources that are not mineral reserves do not have demonstrated economic viability. Inferred resources have a great amount of uncertainty as to their existence and whether they can be mined legally or economically. It cannot be assumed that all or any part of the Inferred resources will ever be upgraded to a higher category. See “Risk Factors” and “Cautionary Note to United States Investors.”
2.
Mineral Resources stated as contained within a manually constructed potentially economic resource limiting pit shell using metal price of $3.00/lb for copper, mining costs of $1.50/tonne, processing costs of $10.00/tonne, 100% recoveries and an average pit slope of 45 degrees.
3.
Mineral resources at a 1.0% cut-off are considered as potentially economically viable in an underground mining scenario based on an assumed projected copper price of $2.75/lb and total site operating costs of $60 per tonne.
4.
Rounding as required by reporting guidelines may result in apparent summation differences between tonnes, grade and contained metal content.
5.
Tonnage and grade measurements are in metric units. Contained copper are reported as imperial pounds.
6.
All amounts are stated in U.S. dollars unless otherwise noted.
The mineral resources for the project have been estimated to conform to the requirements of CIM (2010). There are no known factors related to environmental, permitting, legal, title, taxation, socio-economic, marketing or political issues which could materially affect the mineral resource.
Bornite Project - Metallurgy
In late 2012, we requested an initial metallurgical evaluation on a series of varying grade composites developed from the South Reef zone. Four composites reflecting low-grade (0.5 -1.0% Cu), medium-grade (1.0 -2.0% Cu), high-grade (2.0 -10.0% Cu), and very high-grade (>10.0% Cu) copper have been submitted to ALS Chemex Labs Ltd. in Vancouver, British Columbia and G&T Metallurgical Services Ltd. in Kelowna, British Columbia for analysis. Results are as yet incomplete pending additional test work on lower grade composites for the Ruby Creek zone.
Bornite Project - Exploration and Development Permitting
Development of the Bornite Project will require a significant number of permits and authorizations from state, federal, and regional organizations. Much of the groundwork to support a successful permitting effort must be undertaken prior to submission of permit applications so that issues can be identified and resolved, baseline data can be acquired, and regulators and stakeholders can become familiar with the proposed project.
The comprehensive permitting process for the Bornite Project can be divided into three categories:
1.
Exploration state/regional permitting: required to obtain approval for drilling, camp operations, engineering, and environmental baseline studies.
2.
Pre-application phase: conducted in conjunction with engineering feasibility studies. This stage includes the collection of environmental baseline data and interaction with stakeholders and regulators to facilitate the development of a project that can be successfully permitted.
3.
The National Environmental Policy Act phase: formal agency review of the Federal and State requirements for public and agency participation to determine if and how the Project can be done in an acceptable manner.
Multiple permits are required during the exploration phase of the Bornite Project. The AHEA issued by ADNR's Division of Mining, Land, and Water is a multi-year permit that is valid for up to five years. The AHEA is a multi-agency permit that includes various Nationwide Permits issued by the COE, a Title 16 Fish Habitat Permit issued by the ADF&G, a Temporary Water Use Permit issued by the ADNR, and a mining license issued by the ADOR. We have retained a valid AHEA permit since 2011. The EPA requires a Spill Prevention, Control, and Countermeasures (“SPCC”) plan for bulk fuel storage of greater than 1,320 gallons. We have (and our immediate predecessor, NovaGold, had) retained a valid SPCC plan since 2010. Due to the location of the Project within the Northwest Arctic Borough, several Title 9 Miscellaneous Land Use permits are required, including permits for mineral exploration, bulk fuel storage, use of airstrips, and establishment of camps. We have, and our immediate predecessor, NovaGold, had, retained Title 9 Permits since 2004. A number of statutory reporting obligations and payments are required to maintain the claims in good standing on annual basis.
Under the NANA Agreement, NANA is required to complete a baseline environmental report following completion of cleanup of the former mining camp on the Bornite lands, to the standards required by the ADEC. This includes removal and disposal as required by law of all hazardous substances present at the Bornite Project. NANA has indemnified us and will hold us harmless for any loss, cost, expense or damage suffered or incurred attributable to the environmental condition of the Bornite lands at the date of the baseline report which relate to any activities prior to the date of the agreement.
In addition, there are no indications of any known environmental impairment or enforcement actions associated with NovaGold’s or our activities to date. As a result, neither NovaGold nor we have incurred outstanding environmental liabilities in conjunction with its entry into the NANA Agreement.
Bornite Project - Environmental Considerations
We have initiated environmental baseline data collection with respect to the Bornite Project. The general discussion herein regarding environmental considerations and the Arctic Project is applicable to the Bornite Project as well. (See “Arctic Project - Environmental Considerations”).
Bornite Project - Recent Developments
The 2013 Bornite drilling program completed drilling of 4,684 meters at the Ruby Creek zone (a potential open pit target) and 3,458 meters on depth extensions of the South Reef zone and Lower Reef mineralization (a potential underground target) of the Bornite Project. The 2013 exploration program was focused on expansion of the resources identified in the 2013 Bornite resource technical report as discussed above and acquisition of additional samples for metallurgical test work. Results from the drill program were released throughout the fall and winter.
In 2013, we drilled 17 holes totaling 8,140 m targeting: 1) expansion of the South Reef zone further to the north; 2) infill and expansion of resources within and marginal to an envisioned open pit in the Ruby Creek zone; and 3) two holes reserved for future metallurgical test work.
The 2013 exploration field season program also saw us undertake a significant drill core re-sampling and re-assaying program at the Bornite Project consisting of 33 historical drill holes comprising 11,067 meters of drill core, which were originally drilled by Kennecott between 1957 and 1975. The objectives of the program were twofold: 1) to confirm and conduct a Quality Assurance/Quality Control program on the historical sample results; and 2) to identify additional lower-grade (0.2% -0.5% copper) shallow material, which was not previously sampled. The re-sampling and re-assaying program confirmed previously known high-grade mineralization and extended the known limits of lower grade mineralization. The results from these 33 historical drill holes combined with the 15 holes drilled during the 2013 program at the Ruby Creek and South Reef zones will be incorporated into an updated resource estimate.
The 2013 drill campaign followed consistent sampling methodology, assay and analytical procedures as described above in 2011 and 2012.
We also completed the installation of an additional stream gauging station on Ruby Creek, near Bornite to allow us to continue to improve our environmental baseline data collection in the region.
Item 3.