Item 2. Properties
The Company’s activities include the exploration and production of minerals from properties in Argentina. On the basis of information to date, properties where it has not yet been determined if economically recoverable ore reserves exist are classified as exploration-stage. Properties where economically recoverable ore reserves exist and are being exploited are classified as production-stage. The underlying value of the mineral properties is entirely dependent upon the existence of reserves, the ability of the Company to obtain the necessary financing to complete development and upon future profitable production or a sale of these properties.
In February 2019, the Company reviewed the production profile for 2019 for Cap-Oeste and Lomada. Given the expected lower production volumes from Cap-Oeste and the lower than anticipated recoveries from Lomada, the Board took the decision to close Lomada and put Cap-Oeste on care and maintenance until a suitable solution to extract and process the high-grade underground resource from Cap-Oeste has been identified. In this regard, the Company is working on final design on the Cap-Oeste underground mine.
The following is a summary of the Company’s operations, together with an update on exploration activities for the year to date. Except as otherwise noted, Donald J. Birak, independent geologist and registered member of the Society for Mining, Metallurgy and Exploration (“SME”) and fellow of the Australasian Institute for Mining and Metallurgy (“AusIMM”), is the Qualified Person whom has reviewed and approved the scientific and technical information contained herein.
The majority of the Company’s assets are located in Argentina. The Company’s material mining properties consist of
•
Approximately 81,000-hectare parcel on which the Company’s Cap-Oeste and El Tranquilo project are located
•
Approximately 59,200-hectare parcel on which the Company’s Lomada project is located
•
Approximately 41,800-hectare parcel on which the Company’s Calcatreu project is located
•
Approximately 5,500-hectare parcel on which the Company’s La Manchuria project is located
•
Approximately 52,800-hectare parcel on which the Company’s La Josefina project is located
•
Approximately 29,600-hectare parcel on which the Company’s La Valenciana project is located
•
Approximately 35,700-hectare parcel on which the Company’s Martha project is located
The Company owns the surface rights to over 108,200 hectares of land encompassing the Estancia (ranch) La Bajada, the Estancia El Tranquilo, the Estancia El Rincon, the Estancia 1° de Abril and the Estancia La Josefina. The Company has clear title and outright ownership over Estancia La Bajada, Estancia El Tranquilo, Estancia 1° de Abril and Estancia La Josefina. There is a back in right granted to the sellers under Estancia El Rincon’s title deed whereby the Company irrevocably committed to resell the estancia to its former owner in the event that two consecutive years elapse without mining activities. Current activity on this estancia includes the Lomada Project.
During 2019, the Company held, directly or indirectly through its subsidiaries or under option agreements, the mineral rights to over 360 property interests in Argentina, Chile and Uruguay. On December 10, 2019, the Company terminated its activities and interests in Uruguay.
It also owns a processing plant located at the Martha project, mobile and fixed housing units, trucks and additional mechanical equipment, all purchased within the last ten years and in good physical condition.
Calcatreu Project
The Company’s principal project, Calcatreu, is located in south-central Rio Negro Province approximately 80 km southwest of the town of Jacobacci. Calcatreu is located in the Jurassic-aged Somuncura Massif along the NW- to SE-oriented, regional-scale Gastre Fault System; a highly prospective belt of Mesozoic-aged rocks and structures and base and precious metal mineral deposits occurring in both the provinces of Chubut and Rio Negro. The massif is similar in geologic character to the larger Deseado Massif in the province of Santa Cruz to the south. Patagonia Gold has also recently acquired new concessions, totaling more than 100,000 hectares (“ha”) along this belt in Rio Negro province. Calcatreu is a gold and silver project acquired in January 2018 through the acquisition of Minera Aquiline Argentina SA, a subsidiary of Pan American Silver and the Company’s immediate aim is to commence a drilling program to increase the existing resources and advance the project to feasibility study stage during 2020. Precious metal mineralization in the Somuncura Massif, like that on the Company’s Calcatreu property, is largely epithermal in character within quartz-rich veins, vein clusters, stockworks and as disseminations. Sulfide minerals are ubiquitous in the mineral deposits as well as a suite of temporally- and spatially-related gangue minerals typical of epithermal deposits in the massif and elsewhere. More specifically, the gold and silver deposits on the Company’s properties are classified as low- and intermediate-sulfidation styles of epithermal deposits.
- 5 -
The Calcatreu Deposit is a low sulfidation, epithermal gold and silver system with mineralization outcropping at surface. Ore reserves have not yet been established to assess the technical and economic viability of the project’s current mineralized material though the Company has plans to do so. As of December 31, 2018, Calcatreu’s mineralized material amounts to 9.8 million tonnes (approximately 10.8 short tons) with average gold and silver grades of 2.11 and 19.83 grams per tonne, respectively (0.062 ounces per ton of gold and 0.58 ounces per ton of silver).
A geophysical survey, consisting of 20 lines totaling 46.5km, was commissioned by the Company and covered the area between Castro Sur (to the north) and Veta (vein) 49 (to the south). Its objective was to detect the presence of hidden NNE-trending dilational fault and vein sections, similar to those at Veta 49, or any other structure with exploration potential for the discovery of new mineralization in the immediate vicinity of the Veta 49 / Nelson deposits, which comprise the current mineralized material at Calcatreu. The survey resulted in new target definition and ranking that will help guide the Company’s new exploration and definition work. As a result, a drill program consisting of several geophysical-based drill targets was designed. The first, and main, part of the drill program consisted of testing covered conceptual geophysical targets, whereas the last few drill holes were focused on expanding the known mineralization at Veta 49, Belen and Castro Sur, by extrapolating its trend and plunge.
The exploration program during 2019 was mostly focused in surface work, a total of 41.28 linear kilometers of pole-dipole ground induced polarization and resistivity (“IP/Res”) geophysical surveying was conducted over the main Nelson targets and Castro Norte, Fiero, Sabrina and Viuda de Castro areas, plus 121.5 linear kilometers of gradient array IP over Nelson, Sabrina and Mariano. Further, 1,687.2 km of ground magnetics, covering 55.44 sq km, were completed on the project covering several, known mineralized zones, including the main Veta 49 and Nelson. The objective was to identify non outcropping areas with potential to host mineralization in dilatational jogs, blind structures and other geologic settings.
Mapping and sampling, of several areas, was conducted, including the Viuda de Castro, Trinidad, La Cruz, Nelson extension, Piche, La Olvidada and Epu-Peni targets. A total of 254 new rock chips samples were taken, plus 81 new channel samples. Approximately 50% of the core of the project has been relogged; including up to 80 holes at Veta 40 and Belen.
A rotary air blast (“RAB”) drilling campaign and channel (sawn) sampling was in progress during 2020 where all the activities were paused due to the COVID-19 pandemic.
Santa Cruz Province
Geology of the land holdings is characterized by abundant middle-to-late Jurassic age volcanic and volcaniclastic rock units. All the projects in the province of Santa Cruz, Argentina are within the Deseado Massif, a prominent geomorphic and topographic feature, which is dominated by Mesozoic-aged rhyolitic to rhyodacitic ignimbrite flows and lava domes together with scattered intrusive rocks, subordinate agglomerates, volcanic breccias and tuffs with minor basalts, andesites and volcanic agglomerates intercalated upward with mafic tuffs, conglomerates and sediments. Faults active during the period of intense Jurassic extension and volcanism generally trend NNW-SSE and form a series of horst and graben blocks.
- 6 -
Location of Patagonia Gold Corporation’s mineral properties within the Deseado Massif of Santa Cruz, Argentina.
General Geology of the Deseado Massif
Middle to late Jurassic-aged, bimodal volcanism, typical of a volcanic arc setting, developed during widespread extensional tectonism within the massif. This geologic environment led to the formation of numerous low-sulfidation (LS) epithermal deposits that are spatially and temporally related to the volcanic activity. Most part of these LS deposits and their mineralization is genetically linked to the Late Jurassic-aged Chon Aike Formation and hosted by volcanic rocks of the Middle to Late Jurassic-aged Bajo Pobre Formation. The Deseado Massif can be considered as a differentiated Au-Ag Mesozoic-aged geomorphological province with later hydrothermal alteration and mineralization episodes.
Cap-Oeste Project
Cap-Oeste is located within a structural corridor extending six kilometres from the La Pampa prospect in the northwest to the Tango prospect in the southeast. The Cap-Oeste deposit has an identified and delineated strike extent of 1.2 kilometres. Cap-Oeste has been on care and maintenance since February 2019.
Production from the existing heap leach pad continued during 2019 and yielded a total of 7,796 ounces of Au and 237,727 ounces of Ag. The cash costs for the year were US$573/oz1 and US$651/oz1 (the later including depreciation and amortization). A total of 8,236 Au and 234,441 Ag ounces were sold during the year 2019.
The Company has initiated studies to assess the potential technical and economic extraction of a portion of the current mineralized material at Cap-Oeste. The Company is now focused on evaluating the development of this higher-grade part by underground mining. The Company is expecting quotations with respect to potential construction of an underground mine in Cap-Oeste. Material processing options are being considered and may include utilizing the Company’s flotation facilities are Martha, about 100 kms to the southeast of Cap-Oeste. The Company has successfully carried out bulk metallurgical tests in the Martha process plant, obtaining favorable results.
1 See Non-GAAP Financial Performance Measures in Item 7
- 7 -
The Company has an asset retirement obligation for reclamation costs for Cap-Oeste Project of $0.1 million as of December 31, 2019.
Lomada de Leiva Project (Lomada)
The Lomada mine was closed in May 2016 while production from the ongoing leaching continued through 2019, though at a reduced output. Given that the ore from the Lomada open pit mine was originally placed on the heap leach pad without crushing, the Company decided to return to Lomada to reprocess this ore. However, in mid-February 2019 the Company took the decision to cease operations and proceed with the closure of Lomada. On this year the Company was working on re handling material of leach pad to regenerate the solution percolation and generate new channels of circulation of solution.
During 2019, Lomada produced 3,969 ounces of gold. The cash costs for the year were US$437/oz2 and US$ 580/oz2; the later including depreciation and amortization. A total of 3,461 ounces of Au were sold at an average gross price of $ 1,374 per ounce Au during the year 2019.
The Company has prepared an update to the closure plan presented and approved by the provincial authorities in 2017. The Company received the final approval in November 2019 and started with the works of remediation on the end of 2019. The work on the remediation had been halted due to the COVID-19 pandemic. In October 2020, the Company received a preliminary Environmental Permit (“Permit”) for a restart of mining and new leaching operations at its Lomada mine in the western part of the Santa Cruz Province of Argentina. Patagonia applied for the Permit in August 2020.
The Company has an asset retirement obligation for reclamation costs for the Lomada de Leva Project of $1.7 million as of December 31, 2019.
Mineralized Material Summary
Notes
“K” = Thousands, “g/t” = grams per tonne
Rounding may affect sums and weighted averages
100% basis; Fomicruz has a 5% interest in all Santa Cruz mineral interests.
1.
Cap-Oeste
0.5 g/t AuEq cutoff
2.
Cap-Oeste
AuEq = Au + (Ag*69.4)
3.
Calcatreu
0.5 g/t AuEq cutoff
4.
Calcatreu
AuEq = Au + (Ag*81.25)
5.
La Manchuria
0.55 AuEq cutoff
6.
La Manchuria
AuEq = (Au + Ag)/(Au price*0.32151)
7.
La Josefina
0.2 g/t AuEq cutoff
8.
La Josefina
AuEq = Au + (Ag*66.67)
2 See Non-GAAP Financial Performance Measures in Item 7
- 8 -
Exploration Update
Exploration during 2019 consisted mainly of regional reconnaissance, geological mapping, sampling, geophysics and drilling carried out at Rio Negro and Santa Cruz. The geophysical surveys were ground magnetics and pole-dipole IP/Res. During 2019, the Company’s exploration drilling in Argentina was concentrated at Calcatreu, and some of its properties in Santa Cruz province. In addition to the exploration work summarized for Calcatreu above, the Company conducted other exploration at it properties
Mina Angela
On August 13, 2019, the Company announced an offer letter agreement with Latin Metals Inc. to acquire its Mina Angela property. The Mina Angela property is situated in the Somuncura Massif of southern Argentina and is comprised of 44 individual claims located approximately 50 km east-southeast of Patagonia’s 100% owned Calcatreu gold project. Pan American Silver’s Navidad silver and base metal deposit is located 45 km further to the south-southeast of Mina Angela. In March 2020, Patagonia extended the period by which it must enter into the definitive agreement with a $100 thousand payment to Latin Metals; $50 thousand of which was applied to extend the period to enter into the definitive agreement and $50 thousand of which was a partial prepayment of the first earn-in payment to be made under the definitive agreement.
On September 15, 2020, the Company entered into a definitive option agreement with Latin Metals Inc., which granted the Company an irrevocable option to acquire a 100% interest in the Mina Angela property. Upon signing of the definitive agreement, the Company paid $200 thousand representing the balance of the first earn-in payment. It is expected that the Company will pay the second earn-in payment of $250 thousand within the next six months if it exercises the option to acquire the Mina Angela property. A further and final payment of $500 thousand is expected to be paid within 30 days of verification that the legal restrictions preventing development of mining activity in the Chubut Province and at the Mina Angela property have been lifted in such a manner that the Company thereafter has the ability to perform exploration and exploitation mining activities on the Mina Angela property. In addition, Latin Metals will be entitled to receive a 1.25% Net Smelter Royalty from future productions, half of which can be repurchased by the Company for $1 million.
La Manchuria Project
In addition to its current mineral resources, the La Manchuria Project is believed to be prospective for the discovery of new gold and silver mineralization. Brownfield exploration continued through mapping and rock chip sampling of approximately 2,000 ha of the total project’s property size. Veinlets and narrow breccia zones indicative of hydrothermal activity were found at the Magali zone. Anomalous gold values were reported from the Cecilia zone. As a result, a new drill program for La Manchuria, of 2,000 m in 14 holes is planned to test geophysical anomalies and to test gold anomalies generated from surface rock chip sampling.
Sarita Project
The Sarita Project, located in the SW of the Deseado Massif approximately 10 km NW of the Company’s Martha mine and mill, hosts a widespread system of banded, low sulfidation Au-Ag veins, encompassing a small rhyolitic dome complex. Geologically, the area displays very similar structural and stratigraphic characteristics to the Company’s Martha project with Ag-rich, polymetallic, vein-hosted, intermediate sulphidation mineralization. The banded, silver- and gold- bearing quartz veins and quartz vein breccias occur within a set of NNW-SSE striking normal faults and constitute an extensive mineralized vein system, with more than 12 km in total outcropping length. Precious and base metal mineralization has been recognized in quartz veins and vein breccias up to 3 m wide at surface, composed of quartz and sulphides. Rock chips from discrete vein structures or aligned float have returned anomalous gold samples with up to 83.40 g/t Au and up to 15,444 g/t Ag, in separate samples. To date 16 diamond drill holes have been drilled for 1,754 m targeting the vein mineralization. Geochemical results from drilling show gold and silver anomalies. Due to poor ground conditions encountered during drilling, core recovery in some of the veins was poor and Au and Ag mineralization may have not been recovered. Other exploration activities at Sarita included geophysical surveys and drilling. Geophysical anomalies were identified by IP-Res lines [7.1 km] and by detailed ground magnetics [220 hectares] over different targets areas.
A proposal for testing those targets by drilling was defined and shallow geochemical testing, by RAB drilling (Rotary Air Blasting), comprised 198 drill holes in eight targets (Phase I: May 2019, 81 holes; Phase II: September 2019, 117 holes).
Martha Project
The Martha Project (“Martha” or “Mina Martha”) is located in the Province of Santa Cruz, Argentina. The closest community is the town of Gobernador Gregores, situated approximately 50 road kilometers (km) to the west-southwest of Martha. The property is the site of past exploration for, and surface and underground mining and recovery of, silver and gold from epithermal veins and vein breccias, previously operated by Coeur Mining Inc. (formerly, Coeur d’Alene Mine Corp.) and Yamana Inc.
- 9 -
The Company acquired Martha as part of its RTO of Hunt Mining Corp. in 2019. The land package at Martha consists of approximately 7,850 hectares of concessions, various buildings and facilities, surface and underground mining and support equipment, a 480 tonne per day (tpd - maximum) crushing, grinding and flotation plant, tailings facility, various stockpiles and waste dumps, employee living and cafeteria quarters, and miscellaneous physical materials. In addition, the Company has access to surface estancia (“ranch”) lands surrounding the mine and mill site that are approximately 35,700 ha in size.
Ongoing production at the Martha Project is being undertaken without established ore reserves and the Company has not established the technical and economic viability of the Martha Project. As a result, there is increased uncertainty and economic risk of failure associated with these production activities.
The property was purchased in 2016 by Cerro Cazador SA (CCSA), an Argentine subsidiary of the Company, from an Argentine subsidiary of Coeur Mining Inc. (Coeur). The intent to purchase was announced February 10, 2016 and closed May 11, 2016 as disclosed by the Company on its website (www.patagoniagold.com). The processing plant at the Martha Project has an estimated useful life of 8 years as it is anticipated that this plant will be used to process mineral from Cap-Oeste underground, Martha Project and from La Josefina Project. Royal Gold Inc. holds a 2% Net Smelter Return (NSR) royalty on all production from the Martha property; the obligation for which transferred from Coeur to the Company (www.royalgold.com). In addition, the provincial government holds a 3% pit-head royalty from future production.
In late 2019, a plan for reviewing near-mine targets (<5 km away from the mill) was defined. Those remaining targets consist of outcropping veins-veinlets. They included Veta del Medio System, Noroeste, Ivana, Martha Oeste, Martha Norte, Futuro and Sugar Hill among the mains. After encouraging results from sawn-channels (up to 1,000 gr/t Ag) at Veta del Medio System, a RAB drill program was carried out to test mineralization at shallow depths. A total of 65 drill holes (1,397.4 m; up to 25 m depth) tested several targets. Highly anomalous drill intercepts, up to 1m wide and grading 7,700 g/t Ag, were returned from the Veta del Medio Norte which is being considered for follow-up core drilling. Exploration continues to focus on remaining targets by combining systematic sawn-channelling, ground magnetics surveying and new drilling.
The Company has an asset retirement obligation for reclamation costs for the Martha Project of $0.8 million as of December 31, 2019.
La Josefina Project
In March 2007, the Company (Patagonia Gold) acquired the exploration and development rights to the La Josefina project from Fomento Minero de Santa Cruz Sociedad del Estado (“Fomicruz”). In July 2007, the Company entered into an agreement (subsequently amended) with Fomicruz, which provides that, in the event that a positive feasibility study is completed on the La Josefina property, a Joint Venture Corporation (“JV Corporation”) would be formed by the Company and Fomicruz. The Company would own 81% of the joint venture company and Fomicruz would own the remaining 19%. Fomicruz has the option to earn up to a 49% participating interest in the JV Corporation by reimbursing the Company an equivalent amount, up to 49%, of the exploration investment made by the Company. The Company has the right to buy back any increase in Fomicruz’s ownership interest in the JV Corporation at a purchase price of USD$200,000 per each percentage interest owned by Fomicruz down to its initial ownership interest of 19%; the Company can also purchase 10% of the Fomicruz’s initial 19% JV Corporation ownership interest by negotiating a purchase price with Fomicruz. Under the agreement, the Company has until the end of 2019 to complete cumulative exploration expenditures of $18 million and determine if it will enter into production on the property. At December 31, 2019, the Company had incurred approximately $20 million and is in current discussions with Fomicruz to develop a plan for production. In October 2019, the agreement was extended until April 30, 2021 which period may be extended for an additional one-year term.
The project is situated about 450 km northwest of the city of Rio Gallegos, in the Santa Cruz province of Argentina within a scarcely populated steppe-like region known as Patagonia. The La Josefina property occupies 52,800 hectares and makes up approximately 90% of all meters drilled by the Company. The La Josefina Project consists of mineral rights composed by an area of 528 square kilometers established in 1994 as a Mineral Reserve held by Fomicruz. The La Josefina Project comprises 16 Manifestations of Discovery (“MDs”) totaling 52,767 ha in size, which are partially covered by 399 tenements.
- 10 -
La Valenciana Project
La Valenciana is located on the central-north area of the Santa Cruz Province, Argentina. The project encompasses an area of approximately 29,600 ha and is contiguous to the Company’s La Josefina property to the east. The La Valenciana project is comprised of 11 MDs covering segments of Estancia Cañadón Grande, Estancia Flecha Negra, Estancia Las Vallas, Estancia La Florentina, Estancia La Valenciana and Estancia La Modesta (inactive ranches). In La Valenciana, exploration has been limited, with more than half of the surface without systematic exploration. Fomicruz carried out preliminary works defining a main vein system of low sulfidation epithermal style with gold and silver values accompanied by variable amounts of base metals. Exploration and subsequent reconnaissance sampling by CCSA added other, secondary targets and structures combining a total of 5.70 line km of mapped veins and stockworks. The limited exploration to date, alteration features and associated structures, and partial coverage by probable post-mineral units suggest that there is potential for discovery of new mineralization on the property. A new exploration program to define new sites of mineralization, including geophysical surveys and shallow drilling in new and known target areas and an intensive prospecting and reconnaissance sampling in the whole block of mining properties, is being considered.
Bajo Pobre Property
The Bajo Pobre property covers 3,190 hectares and is mainly on the Estancia Bajo Pobre. The property is located 90 kilometers south of the town of Las Heras. No exploration activity has taken place on the Bajo Pobre Property and no exploration activity is planned for the immediate future.
El Gateado Property
In March 2006, CCSA acquired the right to conduct exploration on the El Gateado property through a claim staking process for a period of at least 1,000 days, commencing after the Government issues a formal claim notice, and retain 100% ownership of any mineral deposit found within. El Gateado is a 10,000-hectare exploration concession filed with the Santa Cruz Provincial mining authority. The El Gateado property is located in the north-central part of Santa Cruz province, contiguous to La Josefina on the east.
The Company has not yet received a formal claim notice pertaining to the El Gateado property. Should a mineral deposit be discovered, the company has the exclusive option to file for mining rights on the property. The surface rights of the El Gateado claim are held by the following Ranches, Estancia Los Ventisqueros, Estancia La Primavera, Estancia La Virginia and Estancia Piedra Labrada. The El Gateado claims are filed with the government under file #406.776/DPS/06.
No recent exploration activity has taken place on El Gateado Property and no exploration activity is planned for the immediate future.
The scientific and technical information contained herein has been reviewed and approved by Donald J. Birak, an independent, consulting geologist.
Item 3.