Item 2. Properties
Ongoing production at the Martha project is being undertaken without established mineral resources or reserves. In addition to the Martha Project, the Company is processing minerals for testing from the La Josefina project for feasibility studies. The Company has not established the economic viability of the operations on these projects. As a result, there is increased uncertainty and economic risk of failure associated with these production activities. A NI 43-101 compliant technical report from 2010 does exist for the La Josefina project with measured, indicated and inferred resources. The Ailin vein is part of this resource estimate. The processing plant at the Martha project has an estimated remaining useful life of 7 years as it is anticipated that this plant will be used to process mineral from the Martha, La Josefina and other future projects.
Donald J. Birak, Hunt Mining’s Senior Technical Advisor, is the qualified person under National Instrument 43-101 who has approved the technical and scientific aspects of this disclosure.
The majority of the Company’s assets are located in Argentina. The Company’s material mining properties consist of
·
Approximately 52,776-hectare parcel on which the Company’s La Josefina project is located
·
Approximately 29,600-hectare parcel on which the Company’s La Valenciana project is located
·
Approximately 35,700-hectare parcel on which the Company’s Martha project is located
The Company owns the surface rights for the Martha project and approximately 9,498 hectares of the La Josefina project. It also owns a processing plant, mobile and fixed housing units, trucks and additional mechanical equipment, all purchased within the last ten years and in good physical condition.
Geology of the land holdings is characterized by abundant middle-to-late Jurassic age volcanic and volcaniclastic rock units. All projects are within the Deseado Massif of the Santa Cruz province of Argentina, a prominent geomorphic and topographic feature, which is dominated by rhyolitic to rhyodacitic ignimbrite flows and lava domes together with scattered instrusive rocks, subordinate agglomerates, volcanic breccias and tuffs with minor basalts, andesites and volcanic agglomerates intercalated upward with mafic tuffs, conglomerates and sediments. Faults active during the period of intense Jurassic extension and volcanism generally trend NNW-SSE and form a series of graben, and horst blocks
- 4 -
.
Location of Hunt Mining Corporation’s mineral properties within the Deseado Massif of Santa Cruz, Argentina
General Geology of the Deseado Massif
The geology of the Deseado Massif has been described and discussed in numerous papers and reports published during the last fifteen years. The geology has been mapped at various scales by government agencies, most recently covered by a series of 1:250,000 quadrangles published by the Instituto de Geología y Recursos Minerales and Servico Geológico Minero Argentino.
The Deseado Massif is dominated by a few major regional lithologic sequences comprised of instrusive volcanic and volcaniclastic rocks deposited during middle-to late-Jurassic time. The rocks are broken by a series of regional fractures that may represent reactivated pre-Mesozoic “basement” fracture zones. Faults that were active during the period of intense Jurassic extension and volcanism trend mostly NNW-SSE and form a series of grabens, half-grabens and horst blocks which are tilted slightly to the east. Since Jurassic time, the rocks have been cut by normal faults of several different orientations, mainly NW-SE and ENE-WSW, but have undergone very little compression. As a result, they remain relatively undeformed and generally flat-lying to gently dipping, except locally where close to faults, volcanic domes or similar features.
Exposures of rocks older than Jurassic are limited. The oldest “basement” rocks are represented by small outcrops of metamorphic rocks thought to be late Precambrian to early Paleozoic in age (about 540 millon years ago-Ma). These rocks have been assigned to the La Modesta Formation in the western part of the area and to the Complejo Río Deseado in the eastern part. They consist of schists, phyllites, quartzites, gneisses and amphibolites and plutonic intrusions.
- 5 -
The Precambrian and older Paleozoic rocks are unconformably overlain by thick continental sedimentary sequences of late-Paleozoic to early-Mesozoic age, called La Golondrina Formation and El Tranquilo Group. La Golondrina Formation is Permian (299-251 Ma) and is up to 2,200m of arkosic to lithic sandstones, siltstones and conglomerates deposited in N-S to NW-SE rift basins along older reactivated basement structures. El Tranquilo Group is Triassic in age (251- 200 Ma) and consists of up to 650 meteres of rhythmically bedded arkosic sandstones and shales which grade upward into conglomerates and redbeds.
The Triassic sequence is intruded and overlain by the first indications of igneous activity related to the crustal separation and extension initiated in early Jurassic: La Leona and the Roca Blanca Formations. La Leona Formation, early Jurassic in age (175 - 200 Ma), is composed of calc-alkaline granitic intrusive bodies sparsely scattered throughout the northeastern part of the Deseado Massif. The Roca Blanca Formation is also early Jurassic age, and consists of up to 900m of a coarsening-upward fluvial to lacustrine mudstone and sandstone sequence deposited in grabens or other rift basins, mainly in the south-central part of the Deseado Massif. The upper third of the sequence is distinctly richer in volcanic tuffs and other pyroclastic materials.
The Jurassic volcanic rocks are divided into formal units but can be treated as a single bimodal (andesite-rhyolite) Jurassic volcanic complex. There are three units in this volcanic complex: the Cerro Leon and Bajo Pobre Formations and the Bahía Laura Group. The last two units make up the most extensive unit in the massif.
The Cerro Leon unit (lower to middle Jurassic in age) consists of hypabyssal mafic rocks composed of andesitic to basaltic dykes and shallow intrusions located in the south-central part of the massif. The Bajo Pobre Formation (middle to upper Jurassic in age) is typically 150 to 200m thick and is locally up to 600m thick. It is composed of andesites and volcanic agglomerates with minor basalts, which intercalate upwards with mafic tuffs, conglomerates and sediments. Olivine basalts, common in the lower part of the formation in the El Tranquilo anticline region are thought to be products of fissure eruptions from rifts related to the early stages of the Gondwana breakup and continental separation.
The Bahia Laura Group (middle to upper Jurassic in age) covers more than half the area of the massif and hosts more than 90 percent of the known gold-silver occurrences. It is a complex sequence of felsic volcanic-sedimentary rocks that has been divided into two formations according to whether there is a predominance of volcanic flows (Chon Aike Formation) vs. a predominance of volcaniclastic and sedimentary debris (La Matilde Formation). These two formations are complexly intercalated and have rapid lateral changes in facies and thickness which make it virtually impossible to define a coherent regional stratigraphy.
Non-marine sediments of late Jurassic to early Cretaceous age occur at various places throughout the Deseado Massif filling structural or erosional basins in the underlying Jurassic terrain. The presence of continental sediments in these basins, typically less than 150 meters thick, indicates that the massif remained as a positive geological feature throughout the Cretaceous. The most extensive cover rocks are a series of young basalt lava flows, Miocene to Quaternary in age, which blanket large parts of the region. The flows are typically only a few meters thick except where they fill paleo-valleys in the old land surface. In some cases, these thicker lava accumulations stand in relief above the surrounding landscape, providing classic examples of inverted topography caused by differential erosion. The youngest deposit consists of an extensive veneer of Quaternary gravels, especially in the eastern part of the massif.
Martha Property (Martha)
Location
Martha is located in the province of Santa Cruz, Argentina, at 48o 41’, 33.94” south latitude and 69o 42’, 00.79” west longitude (degrees, minutes, seconds) at approximately 350 meters elevation. The closest community is the town of Gobernador Gregores, situated approximately 50 road kilometers (km) to the west-southwest of Martha.
- 6 -
.
Location of Martha in the Santa Cruz province of Argentina
Property Description and Ownership
The property was purchased in 2016 by Cerro Cazador SA (CCSA), an Argentine subsidiary of the Company, from an Argentine subsidiary of Coeur Mining Inc. (Couer). The intent to purchase was announced February 10, 2016 and closed May 11, 2016 as disclosed by the Company on its website (www.huntmining.com). See note 8 of the 2018 financial statements for details on the purchase of the Mina Martha property.
The Martha property consists of approximately 7,850 hectares of concessions, various buildings and facilities, surface and underground mining and support equipment, a 480 tonne per day (tpd - maximum) crushing, grinding and flotation plant, tailings facility, various stockpiles and waste dumps, employee living and cafeteria quarters, and miscellaneous physical materials. The Company restored and repaired the physical assets acquired in the purchase during the latter part of 2016 and the first quarter of 2017. In addition, the Company has access to surface ranch (“estancia”) lands surrounding the mine and mill site that are approximately 35,700 hectares in size.
RG Royalties LLC. holds a 2% Net Smelter Return (NSR) royalty on all production from the Martha property; the obligation for which transferred from Coeur to the Company (www.royalgold.com). In addition, the provincial government holds a 3% pit-head royalty from future production.
Geology and Mineralization
Silver and gold mineralization at Martha is hosted in Jurassic-aged felsic volcanic rocks of the Chon Aike Formation of the Bahia Laura volcanic complex (BLVC). Host rocks are relatively shallowly dipping ignimbrites, locally inter-bedded with thin sections of sedimentary strata.
The oldest geological unit in the Martha area is a crystal rich, dacitic ignimbrite, which is overlain by a thin, tuffaceous unit. Further up in the Chon Aike sequence rocks change to crystal rich, rhyolitic ignimbrite followed again by a thin layer of tuffaceous sediments. The upper part of the sequence at Martha is comprised of lithic rich, rhyodacitic ignimbrite related to a caldera-forming, volcanic event.
- 7 -
Most of the historic mineral deposits were hosted in the crystal rich ignimbrites and tuffaceous units (Paéz et al, 2015) although, locally, upper lithic fragment tuffs and ignimbrites can host high-grades of vein-hosted silver and gold. An example of the latter is the mineralization in the Betty deposit at Martha.
Martha mineralization is epithermal, intermediate sulfidation in style, hosted in quartz veins, veinlets and vein breccias cutting the margins of a Jurassic-aged caldera (Primero de Abril Caldera; Paéz et al, 2015). Vein widths vary significantly on surface from a few centimeters up to several meters. Banded textures are common in the wider veins. Adularia is a common gangue mineral in the quartz veins.
History
Exploration and production at Martha have a relatively short history, commencing in the late 1990's with the activities of Yamana. On April 3, 2002, Coeur purchased Yamana's 100 percent interest in Polimet, a Yamana subsidiary. From that point in time to late 2007, Coeur mined and shipped ore to its Cerro Bayo mill in Chile. Beginning in January 2008, all mine production from Martha was processed at a new mill and flotation plant located at the Martha mine site with concentrate sold to third party smelters.
Yamana
In 1997, Yamana conducted regional exploration reconnaissance work in Santa Cruz, Argentina. This program resulted in the discovery of a wide vein, up to 4.7 true width meters on surface, grading up to 6.9 grams/metric tonne (g/t) gold (Au) and 5,200 g/t silver (Ag). This discovery outcrop occurred on the vein subsequently named Martha. Surface work continued in the area in the spring of 1997.
Yamana initiated reconnaissance drilling on the property in January 1998 with shallow reverse circulation (RC) methods. Holes drilled during this phase returned samples with precious metals values of sufficient grade, in sulfidic and oxidized material along the Martha vein system, to justify additional drilling. Definition drilling used a combination of diamond drill core (DDH) and RC methods sited between (in-filling) the reconnaissance-phase drill holes. This work supported the completion of an initial Mineral Resource estimation in late 1999, followed by creation of the first mine plan for the property in February 2000.
The mineral rights were subsequently transferred to Compañía Minera Polimet S.A (Polimet); a wholly owned subsidiary of Yamana. Mine development started in October 2000 utilizing contractors. Mine production, from shallow surface pits, started late that year and the first direct shipping ore (DSO) was exported in February 2001. Mining activities lasted until October 2001 and the export of DSO continued to February 2002. Yamana produced nearly 2,300 gold ounces and 1.7 million silver ounces from approximately 4,000 tonnes of material (Coeur, Martha Mine Technical Report, 2006).
Coeur
On April 3, 2002, Coeur purchased Yamana's 100 percent interest in Polimet for US$2.5 million. From that point in time to late 2007, Coeur shipped Martha mined ore to its Cerro Bayo mill and concentrator facilities near the town of Chile Chico, Chile; a distance of nearly 900 kilometers by road. Beginning in January 2008, all mine production from Martha was processed at a new mill and flotation plant located at the Martha mine site.
Exploration History
Since discovery of the Martha vein by Yamana, exploration proceeded at Martha annually until Coeur terminated activities in 2012. Typically, methods used in exploration included initial prospecting, sampling and mapping, followed by detailed sampling via trenching, geochemical analyses on the collected samples, air and ground geophysical surveying and, ultimately, drilling by RC and Core methods to evaluate anomalous geochemical results; in general, all of which are typical methods used within the minerals industry.
Yamana used RC drilling methods with track-mounted drills in the early days of the project. Coeur conducted some RC drilling in the province but shifted to diamond coring methods at Martha. Core drilling, completed from surface and underground platforms, consisted of IEW (25 mm), BQ (36 mm), NQ (47 mm) and HQ (64 mm) diameter drill holes. In addition, Coeur collected a significant amount of data from other exploration techniques, such as air and ground geophysics, Aster remote sensing data collection and interpretation and high-resolution topographic data collection.
- 8 -
Mine and Mill Production
Mining began at Martha by Yamana and continued by Coeur until late 2012. Yamana's mine production yielded Direct Shipping Ore (DSO), from shallow pits and limited underground workings, which was sent to foreign smelters.
From 2002 through late 2007, Coeur shipped all of its Martha concentrates to its Cerro Bayo mill and flotation plant near the town of Chile Chico in Region XI of southern Chile. Concentrates were trucked east from Martha to San Julian then north to Comodoro Rivadavia then west to Chile Chico; a distance of over 900 km. The cutoff grade for Mineral Reserves was, as a result, high.
In 2006 and 2007, exploration and definition drilling were increased to define sufficient Mineral Reserves and additional Mineral Resources to justify the capital expense to build a mill and flotation concentrator on site at Martha. This program was successful and onsite processing commenced in December 2007.
During its years of production, Martha produced over 530,000 tonnes of material and over 24 million ounces of silver and 31 thousand ounces of gold.
Martha Mineralized Zones
Silver and gold mineralization at Martha are located within a series of banded and brecciated, veins and veinlets. The style of mineralization has been interpreted to be intermediate-sulfidation in character. The main trend of the mineralized systems is WNW and EW and dip steeply to moderately to the S, SW. On surface, mineralized structures can be several meters wide but often are much less than a meter in true width but may expand in width in the subsurface.
Present Status of Work Completed and Exploration Plans
Exploration on this property by the Company began in 2017 and currently the mine and mill facilities at Martha are active and processing minerals from exploration activities. Exploration for the year was centered on extending Martha extraction by focusing on nearby structures. In 2017 the Martha West deposit, an extension of the Martha vein, was announced. In 2018 mining continued of the surface and underground resources.
The Martha operation produced 14,063 tons averaging 405g Ag and 1.04g Au. For the year ended December 31, 2018, 183,034 Ounces of Ag and 469 ounces of Au were produced from the Martha Plant. The principal source of ore was the remainder of the Martha crown pillar, which at year-end is nearing completion. The Company will obtain additional mineralized material in 2019 by opening the Nor-este deposit with surface mining.
During the year, approximately 75 m of underground development was completed at the 289 level of the Martha underground and surface mine.
The Martha plant operated the entire year on a part-time schedule, 2 weeks on and 2 weeks off.
Ongoing production at the Martha Project is being undertaken without established mineral resources or reserves and the Company has not established the economic viability of the operations on the Martha Project. As a result, there is increased uncertainty and economic risks of failure associated with these production activities.
Royalties and Taxes
The provincial governments in Argentina own the minerals. In October 2014, a new provincial law increased the mining royalty applicable to doré and concentrate to 3% of the pit-head (mine mouth) value, with certain allowable deductions. In addition, RG Royalties LLC holds a 2% Net Smelter Return royalty on Martha.
The Company is not aware of any other rights, encumbrances, or obligations attached to the Company's Martha property.
Environmental Liabilities
The Company has an asset retirement obligation for reclamation costs for the Martha property of $821,810 as at December 31, 2018.
La Josefina Property
Location
The La Josefina Project is situated about 450 km northwest of the city of Rio Gallegos, in the Santa Cruz province of Argentina within a scarcely populated steppe-like region known as Patagonia. The La Josefina property, situated about 110 kms north of Martha occupies 52,800 hectares and makes up approximately 90% of all meters drilled by the Company.
- 9 -
The La Josefina Project consists of mineral rights composed by an area of 528 square kilometers established in 1994 as a Mineral Reserve held by Fomicruz, an oil and mining company owned by the Santa Cruz provincial government. The La Josefina Project comprises 16 Manifestations of Discovery totaling 52,767 hectares which are partially covered by 399 pertenencias.
Property Description and Ownership
Exploration Agreement between Fomicruz and CCSA
In March 2007, CCSA was awarded the exploration and development rights from Fomento Minero de Santa Cruz Sociedad del Estado ("Fomicruz") through a required public bidding process to explore the La Josefina Project. As Fomicruz is a government owned company in Santa Cruz province in Argentina, it cannot make individual agreements with a private company without first publishing the offer and giving other private companies the opportunity to submit bids, but the first company making an offer has the right to match any new offer.
The definitive agreement between CCSA and Fomicruz was finalized in July 2007. Pursuant to this agreement, CCSA was obligated to spend US$6 million in exploration and complete pre-feasibility and feasibility studies during a 4-year exploration period (excluding three months each year for winter holiday) commencing in October 2007 at La Josefina in order to earn mining and production rights for a 40-year period in a joint venture partnership ("JV") with Fomicruz. CCSA may terminate this agreement at the end of each exploration stage if results are negative.
The 4-year exploration period was originally planned to proceed in the following three stages:
Other conditions of the agreement:
1.
CCSA posted a US$600,000 performance bond (equal to 10% of the total proposed exploration investment).
2.
CCSA must maintain the La Josefina mining rights by paying the annual canons due the province on the project's 399 pertenencias.
3.
CCSA must complete surface agreements (lease or buy) with the surface landowners, as required by the Federal mining law, to gain legal access to the ranches (estancias) that cover the project. Most of the project and all the current target areas lie within two large ranches that have been unoccupied for many years - Estancia La Josefina and Estancia Piedra Labrada. The major part of mineralization occurs on Estancia La Josefina, which CCSA purchased in 2007. CCSA rents Estancia Piedra Labrada, which it uses as an exploration field camp.
The Company is currently in negotiations with Fomicruz to develop a new joint venture that will have joint participating ownership.
Since CCSA fulfilled its exploration requirement mandated by the agreement with Fomicruz, the performance bond was no longer required to secure the La Josefina project. In June 2010, the Company used the bond to secure the La Valenciana project (discussed later in this document).
- 10 -
On November 15, 2012, the Company signed an amendment to the agreement with Fomicruz which extended the time to develop the La Josefina project by four years, from 2015 to 2019. Between the original agreement and the extension to 2019, the Company agreed to make a minimum investment of US$18 million, of which it has invested approximately US$20 million.
Metallurgic testing on the project began in 2018 and the Company is currently negotiating a new agreement with Fomicruz and Mining Authorities for continued testing, and future production of the minerals at this location.
The 2012 agreement provided a participating interest for Fomicruz over the minerals and metals extracted of 19% and the purchase option of up to a 49% participating interest in the incorporation of the future Company to be organized for the production and exploitation of the project, having Fomicruz contributing capital for the equivalent of such increase in percentage of participation. The Company has the right to buy back any increase in Fomicruz's ownership interest in the JV Corporation at a purchase price of USD$200,000 per each percentage interest owned by Fomicruz down to its initial ownership interest of 19%; the Company can purchase 10% of the Fomicruz's initial 19% JV Corporation ownership interest by negotiating a purchase price with Fomicruz.
In December 2007, CCSA purchased the "La Josefina Estancia", a 92 square kilometer parcel of land within the La Josefina Project area. CCSA plans to use the La Josefina Estancia as a base of operations for Santa Cruz exploration. The purchase price for the La Josefina Estancia was US$710,000.
Initially, the La Josefina property was excluded from an exploration agreement the Company had with Eldorado Gold. This property was made subject to this agreement with Eldorado Gold on May 7, 2013, but in July 2013 the agreement was terminated by Eldorado Gold.
Present Status of Work Completed and Exploration Plans
In 2014, the Company conducted a shallow diamond drilling campaign, including 12 holes totaling 651 meters in length completed on the Maria Belen target and 15 holes totaling 957 meters on the Sinter target. Detailed results of the La Josefina drilling program are included in the Company's website, www.huntmining.com.
By late 2015, when the options for test milling the material that would be mined at La Josefina under this bulk sampling program seemed very limited, the Company began talks and eventual negotiations with Coeur Mining Inc. to purchase the Martha project assets approximately 110 km (65 miles) to the south of La Josefina from Coeur's Argentine subsidiary, Coeur Argentina SRL.
The Company has been actively pursuing a new exploration partner for the La Josefina project, as of the date of this filing these discussions are still in process.
In 2017 the Company obtained permission from Fomicruz for extraction of mineral from the property for metallurgical test purposes and began doing so in early 2018. The material extracted were processed at the Company's Mina Martha facility.
Much of the following information is derived from, and based upon the La Josefina 2010 Technical Report, which is available for Hunt Mining Corp. on the System for Electronic Document Analysis and Retrieval ("SEDAR") at www.sedar.com. Thus, the comments are not in the present tense.
History
Santa Cruz province - and indeed much of Patagonia - has only a short history of mineral prospecting and mining. Until the Cerro Vanguardia mine was commissioned in late 1989, only a few mineral occurrences had been identified within the 100,000 square kilometer area of the Deseado Massif. Notably, although Coeur Mining, Inc. ceased active mining operations at its Martha Mine in September 2012, the Deseado Massif continues to host several producing mines: the Cerro Vanguardia Mine (AngloGold Ashanti Limited - Fomicruz), the San Jose - Huevos Verdes Mine (Hochschild Mining plc - Minera Andes Incorporated, the Manantial Espejo Mine (Pan American Silver Corp.) and the Cap Oeste and Loma de Leiva mines (Patagonia Gold). Additionally, several new mines are being readied for production, and many active exploration projects (including Goldcorp's Cerro Negro and Pan American's COSE and Joaquin) are in progress.
- 11 -
In 1975, the first occurrence of metals known in the La Josefina area was publicly mentioned by the Patagonian delegation of the National Ministry of Mining. They reported the presence of an old lead-zinc mine in veins very near Estancia La Josefina. The mineralization received no further attention until 1994 when a research project by the Institute of Mineral Resources of the Universidad Nacional de la Plata and the geology department of the University of Patagonia San Juan Bosco examined the occurrence. That investigation corroborated not only the presence of base metals, but also precious metals.
In 1994, immediately after the La Josefina gold-silver discovery, Fomicruz claimed the area as a Provincial Mineral Reserve and explored the project in collaboration with the Instituto de Recursos Minerales (INREMI) of La Plata University. The geology and alteration of the project area was mapped at a scale of 1:20,000. Mineralized structures and zones of sinter were mapped at 1:2,500, trenches across the structures were continuously sampled and mapped at scales of 1:100 and ground geophysical surveys consisting of 6,000 m of IP-resistivity and 5,750 meters of magnetic surveys were completed over sectors of greatest interest.
In 1998, after four years of exploring and advancing interest in the project, Fomicruz offered La Josefina for public bidding by international mining companies. In accordance with provincial law, the winner would continue exploring the project to earn the right to share production with Fomicruz of any commercial discoveries. The bid was awarded to Minamérica S. A. ("Minamérica"), a private Argentine mining company. Minamérica dug a limited number of new trenches, initiated a program of systematic surface geochemical sampling, completed several new IP-Resistivity geophysical survey lines and drilled the first exploration holes on the project - 12 diamond core holes totaling 1,320 meters in length. The results of this effort were relatively encouraging but Minamérica nevertheless abandoned the project a year later in 1999.
In 2000, Fomicruz resumed exploration of the project and continued their efforts until 2006. Pits were dug to bedrock over some of the target areas, 3,900 meters of new trenches were dug and sampled, more than 8,000 float, soil and outcrop samples were collected for geochemical analyses, some new IP-Resistivity surveys were completed under contract to Quantec Geophysical Co., and 59 diamond core holes (total 3,680 meters) were drilled to average shallow depth below surface of 55 meters. Of these holes, 37 were NQ-size core (47.6mm diameter) and 22 were HQ-size core (63.5mm).
Fomicruz reported spending more than US$2.8 million in exploring and improving infrastructure on the La Josefina Project from 1994 to 2006. In late-2006, the La Josefina Project was again opened to international bidding and in May 2007, CCSA was awarded the right to explore the project. Throughout 2007 and 2008, CCSA was mainly focused on an intensive drill plan (37,605 meters), and in 2009 and the first quarter of 2010 reviewed all the data gathered in order to generate a geological model for the project and continued working on regional exploration to define new additional targets for next drilling stages.
The La Josefina project focused on the Bulk Metallurgical testing of the Ailin structure. The first two benches of the system were exposed and material shipped to the Martha plant for bulk pilot testing.
Approximately 1500 tons averaging 26.5g Au and 137g Ag were processed utilizing standard flotation techniques. Three test shipments to two different European smelters were made in the fourth quarter. Contained in the shipments were 1034 ounces Au and 5,999 ounces Ag.
The Metallurgical testing will continue in 2019 with materials from the Sinter and the Amanda Cecilia structures.
Royalties
Mineral properties in Argentina carry no federal royalties but the provinces are entitled to collect up to 3% mine-mouth royalty (MMR).
In Santa Cruz, the province has opted to drop this MMR to 1% if the operation is a precious metal mine that produces doré bullion within the province. The agreement between CCSA and Fomicruz stipulates that any doré bullion resulting from future La Josefina operations must be produced in the province, so it is likely the project will carry the minimal 1% MMR unless it is processed at the Martha Mill which produces concentrate and not a doré. However, because La Josefina is a Mining Resource in which the mineral rights belong to Fomicruz, the project also carries an additional 5% MMR payable to the province. Therefore, the total MMR for any future gold/silver/base metal production at La Josefina under the current agreement could total 6%.
Environmental Liabilities
The Company has an asset retirement obligation for reclamation costs for the La Josefina property of $486,589 as at December 31, 2018.
- 12 -
Permits Required
The Company has permit drafts submitted to Fomicruz and Mining Authorities for the metallurgical testing phases 1, 2 and 3, and is currently finalizing and updating these drafts for production phase.
La Valenciana Property
Location
La Valenciana is located on the central-north area of the Santa Cruz Province, Argentina. The project encompasses an area of approximately 29,600 hectares and is contiguous to the Company's La Josefina property to the east. The La Valenciana project is comprised of 11 Manifestations of Discovery (MDs) covering segments of Estancia
Cañadón Grande, Estancia Flecha Negra, Estancia Las Vallas, Estancia La Florentina, Estancia La Valenciana and Estancia La Modesta (inactive ranches).
Property Description and Ownership
The Company leases the surface rights to the approximate 29,600 hectares of land on which the La Valenciana is located and has a joint venture with Fomicruz for the mineral rights.
Exploration Agreement between Fomicruz and CCSA
In 2017 the La Valenciana Project was combined under the same agreement with Fomicruz as La Josefina and now operates under the terms of that contract.
The previous agreement for La Valenciana was the following:
In 2010, the right to develop and mine the property was opened up for bidding to private companies. Hunt Mining Corp, through CCSA, was awarded the prospects and mining rights. The Company entered into an agreement with Fomicruz effective as of November 15, 2012, for the right to explore and develop the La Valenciana property for a period of seven years. The agreement with Fomicruz requires the Company to spend USD $5,000,000 in exploration on the project over 7 years.
Total costs incurred to date are approximately US$5.1million.
Since CCSA fulfilled its exploration requirement mandated by the La Josefina agreement with Fomicruz, the performance bond was no longer required to secure the La Josefina project. In June 2010, the Company used the bond to secure the La Valenciana project.
If the Company elects to exercise its option to bring the La Valenciana project into production, it must grant Fomicruz a 9% ownership in a new JV Corporation to be created by the Company to manage the project. If Fomicruz elects to increase their ownership they can under the following formula up to a maximum of 49% interest.
·
To purchase an additional 10% in the JV corporation, Fomicruz must reimburse the Company for 10% of the exploration expenses made by the Company during the exploration period;
·
To purchase the next 10% interest in the JV corporation, Fomicruz must reimburse the Company for 20% of the exploration expenses made by the Company during the exploration period;
·
To purchase a final additional 20% interest in the JV Corporation, Fomicruz must reimburse the Company for 25% of the exploration expenses made by the Company during the exploration period; bringing Fomicruz's total ownership interest in the JV Corporation to 49%.
At the Company's option it can purchase all but the 9% granted ownership interest in the JV Corporation from Fomicruz for USD $200,000 per percentage point owned. The remaining 9% can be purchased for a mutually agreed amount, to be determined by negotiation between Fomicruz and the Company
- 13 -
Geology and Mineralization
Geology of La Valenciana Project, within the Deseado Massif, is characterized by abundant middle-to-late Jurassic Age volcanic and volcaniclastic rock units. The units are dominated by rhyolitic to rhyodacitic ignimbrite flows and lava domes together with subordinate agglomerates, volcanic breccias and tuffs with minor basalts, andesites and volcanic agglomerates intercalated upward with mafic tuffs, conglomerates and sediments. Faults active during the period of intense Jurassic extension and volcanism generally trend NNW-SSE and form a series of grabens, and horst blocks.
Since Jurassic time, the rocks have been cut by normal faults of several different orientations but have undergone only a moderate amount of compression. In general, the Jurassic rocks remain relatively undeformed and remain flat to gently dipping, except locally where close to faults, volcanic domes or similar features. Thin Quaternary Age basalt flows conceal about half of the Jurassic Age rocks on the La Valenciana project.
The type of mineralization and alteration styles present across the project area are classified as low sulfidation epithermal deposits. Gold and silver occur in fissure vein systems localized in structures, often a meter or wider and hundreds of meters long. They are comprised of quartz veins, stockworks and breccias, rich in adularia with some calcite, that carry gold, silver, electrum and some sulfides, primarily pyrite with small amounts of base metal sulfides.
The La Valenciana project does not yet contain current mineral resources or reserves as defined by NI 43-101 or US SEC standards.
Exploration targets consist of gold and silver mineralized quartz veins in volcanic host rocks. Current work is conducted on the La Josefina and La Valenciana claim blocks. La Josefina includes four major vein systems while La Valenciana harbors three. A total of more than 900 trenches and drill holes have been drilled with approximately 40,000 assayed samples. Higher gold values exceed 100 g/tonne and higher silver values are above 1,000 g/t. Veins are formed by upward fluid migration and are therefore typically open to depth.
The Company has collected a large amount of geochemistry data via sampling and analyses generated by commercial laboratory ICP methods (35+ elements). This data is used by the Company to identify possible gold and silver mineralized bodies and trends.
History
Several historical exploration programs, consisting of trenching, mapping and drilling by Fomicruz carried out from 1994 to 2000 and air geophysics including gamma spectrometry from 1996 to 1998, have taken place to date at La Valenciana, with the most recent exploration being conducted by CCSA. Initially, the La Valenciana property was excluded from the exploration agreement with Eldorado Gold. This property was made subject to the exploration agreement with Eldorado Gold on May 7, 2013, an agreement later terminated by Eldorado in July 2013.
In 2014, CCSA conducted a shallow Diamond drilling campaign on the La Valenciana project. This was the first drill program undertaken by the Company at La Valenciana and consisted of 42 holes totaling 3,000 meters, designed to partially test four separate targets: Principal, 19 holes totaling 1,135 meters; Valenciana, 6 holes totaling 438 meters; Rosario, 7 holes totaling 521 meters; and Florentina, 10 holes totaling 726 meters. Detailed results of the La Valenciana drilling program are included in the Company's website, www.huntmining.com.
Present Status of Work Completed and Exploration Plans
The Company has been actively pursuing a new exploration partner for the La Valenciana project, as of the date of this filing these discussions are still in process.
There was no drilling activity during 2018 at La Valenciana.
- 14 -
Royalties
Mineral properties in Argentina carry no federal royalties but the provinces are entitled to collect up to 3% mine-mouth royalty.
In Santa Cruz, the province has opted to drop this MMR to 1% if the operation is a precious metal mine that produces doré bullion within the province. The agreement between CCSA and Fomicruz stipulates that any doré bullion resulting from future La Valenciana operations must be produced in the province, so it is likely the project will carry the minimal 1% MMR. However, because La Valenciana is a Mining Reserve in which the mineral rights belong to Fomicruz, the project also carries an additional 5% MMR payable to the province. Therefore, the total MMR for any future gold/silver/base metal production at La Josefina under the current agreement could total 6%.
Environmental Liabilities
There are no known environmental liabilities associated with the La Valenciana Property.
Permits Required
No permits are required at this time to conduct the proposed exploration.
Other Properties
Bajo Pobre Property
The Bajo Pobre property, also in the Santa Cruz province, covers 3,190 hectares and is mainly on the Estancia Bajo Pobre and is owned 100% by the Company. The property is located 90 kilometers south of the town of Las Heras.
In January 2006, CCSA signed a letter of intent with FK Minera S.A., an arm's length party to CCSA and CCSA's former parent corporation, to acquire a 100% interest in the Bajo Pobre property, a gold exploration property located in Santa Cruz province, Argentina. On March 27, 2007 CCSA signed a definitive lease purchase agreement with FK Minera to acquire the Bajo Pobre property. Pursuant to this agreement, CCSA can earn up to a 100% equity interest in the Bajo Pobre property by making cash payments and exploration expenditures over a 5 year earn-in period.
The Company has completed all lease payments to FK Minera S.A., the owner of the Bajo Pobre property. The parties to the contract have finalized an amendment to the contract terms and therefore the Company's ability to retain rights to explore the Bajo Pobre property is affirmed. As part of the amendment, the Company's obligation of exploration expenditures has been waived by FK Minera S.A., thus affirming the Company's right to ownership.
Geology and Mineralization
The Bajo Pobre project comprises an extensive low sulphidation epithermal gold and silver vein and stock work system located in the north-central region of the Deseado Massif. The known extent of the Bajo Pobre mineral system encompasses more than 12 kilometers of exposed vein strike within a 5 square kilometer area of intense hydrothermal alteration. The main vein system generally trends northeast and is comprised of at least five outcropping sub-parallel structures, varying between 1 and 10 meters in width, with an average outcrop width of 3 meters. These sub parallel veins converge on a hill which shows extensive stockwork veining, strong silicification, acid leaching and argillic alteration. The mineralization is hosted within permeable dacitic to andesitic composition tuffaceous rocks of the Jurassic aged Bajo Pobre Formation.
The Company's Bajo Pobre project does not have any known reserves, and the property does not have any processing infrastructure or equipment on site. There are no power generation facilities on the property, and if it was to become a mine a power generation facility would have to be built or power lines would have to be run to the project.
The property does have access to a good water supply that can be utilized for both drilling and processing should it become a mine.
The Company's Bajo Pobre project does not yet contain known mineral resources or reserves, as defined by NI 43-101 or US SEC standards, nor does it have any processing infrastructure or equipment on site. There are no power generation facilities on the property, and if it was to become a mine a power generation facility would have to be built or power lines would have to be run to the project. The property does have access to a good water supply that can be utilized for both drilling and processing should it become a mine.
- 15 -
History
The Bajo Pobre property was discovered in 1970 and has been worked intermittently by several government entities and private companies. However, serious exploration was not initiated until the mid- 90's with detailed geologic mapping and surface sampling. Assays from this sampling yielded up to 40 grams per ton gold. Drill targets identified from surface sampling were augmented in 2002 with additional targets derived from geophysical surveys. In 2003 and 2004, the property saw a limited amount of exploration drilling which tested a small portion of these targets. The specific work that was conducted from 1996 to 2004 included 62-line kilometers of IP/resistivity geophysical surveys, the emplacement and sampling of 40 trenches totaling 2,500 meters, more than 1000 surface chip and channel samples and 12 widely spaced shallow drill holes.
The Company has conducted cursory reconnaissance on the Bajo Pobre property. The Bajo Pobre property was included in the exploration agreement with Eldorado Gold, an agreement later terminated by Eldorado in July 2013.
Mineral Exploration Activity
The Company completed detailed geological mapping, surface soil sampling and advanced drill targeting during 2012 on the Bajo Pobre project. The Company did not carry out any exploration work on the Bajo Pobre project in 2013, 2014, 2015, 2016, 2017 or 2018.
Total costs incurred to date are approximately US$1.5 million.
There are no current plans to conduct exploration on the property.
Royalties
If CCSA is able to commence commercial production on the Bajo Pobre property, CCSA shall pay FK Minera S.A. the greater of a 1% Net Smelter Royalty ("NSR") on commercial production or US$100,000 per year. CCSA has the option to purchase the NSR for a lump sum payment of US$1,000,000 less the sum of all royalty payments made to FK Minera S.A. to that point.
Environmental Liabilities
There are no known environmental liabilities associated with the Bajo Pobre Property.
El Gateado Property
In March 2006, CCSA acquired the right to conduct exploration on the El Gateado property, located in the Santa Cruz province, through a claim staking process for a period of at least 1,000 days, commencing after the Government issues a formal claim notice, and retain 100% ownership of any mineral deposit found within.
The Company has not yet received a formal claim notice pertaining to the El Gateado property. Should a mineral deposit be discovered, CCSA has the exclusive option to file for mining rights on the property. The surface rights of the El Gateado claim are held by the following Ranches, Estancia Los Ventisqueros, Estancia La Primavera, Estancia La Virginia and Estancia Piedra Labrada. The El Gateado claims are filed with the government under file #406.776/DPS/06.
The El Gateado project is without known mineral resources or reserves as defined by NI 43-101 pr US SEC standards.
El Gateado is a 10,000-hectare exploration concession filed with the Santa Cruz Provincial mining authority. The El Gateado property is located in the north-central part of Santa Cruz province, contiguous to La Josefina on the east.
Environmental Liabilities
There are no known environmental liabilities associated with the El Gateado Property.
History
No known exploration had taken place at El Gateado prior to the work completed by CCSA from 2006 to 2011. During that time CCSA conducted an exploration program consisting of surface channel outcrop sampling, trenching, geological mapping, topographic surveying and more than 3,500 meters of diamond core drilling.
- 16 -
Mineral Exploration Activity - El Gateado
CCSA began field reconnaissance work on the El Gateado property in 2006 with the completion of a topographic survey, base map generation, and a staked grid. In late 2006 and early 2007, CCSA drilled 13 holes on the El Gateado property. Results of this drilling program, based on assay results over 1 g/t Au, are included in the Company's Filing Statement dated November 30, 2009, as filed on SEDAR on December 3, 2009.
CCSA incurred approximately US$706,000 in exploration expenses on the initial El Gateado drilling program. CCSA's management conducted all exploration processes except for drilling, which was conducted by an independent Argentine drilling contractor. All assay results above were based on assay work performed by an independent assay laboratory.
CCSA was encouraged by these drilling results. However, did not conduct any exploration activity on the El Gateado property in 2008, 2009 or 2010.
In the first quarter of 2011, CCSA prepared roads and drill pads at El Gateado. The Company has spent approximately $50,000 on this infrastructure work. During 2011, the Company completed 2,358 meters of drilling on the El Gateado property.
The Company did not carry out any exploration work on the El Gateado project in 2012 through 2018.
Total costs incurred to date are approximately US$1.5 million and no current detailed plans to conduct exploration on the property.
Item 3.