Item 2. Properties.
Starboard Resources, a Delaware corporation, is an independent energy company based in San Antonio, Texas. We were formed in 2011 and we have been engaged in the exploration, development, acquisition and exploitation of crude oil and natural gas properties, with interests throughout Texas and Oklahoma. Our properties cover 26,404 gross acres, or 19,868 net acres, with a majority within the Eagle Ford trend of South Texas.
Our total proved reserves, based on our January 1, 2015 independent reserve estimate report, were 5,788 MBOE, consisting of 10,771MMcf of natural gas and 3,993 Mbbl of oil. The PV-10 of our proved reserves at January 1, 2015 was $128,415,900 based on the average of the beginning of each month prices for 2014 of $95.28 per Bbl and $4.36 per MMBtu and adjusted for location and quality differentials. At January 1, 2015, 23% of our estimated proved reserves were proved developed reserves and 69% of our estimated proved reserves were oil and condensate. Our average daily production at year end December 31, 2014 was 990 BOE per day.
Core Areas of Operation and Certain Key Properties
As of December 31, 2014, our proved oil and gas reserves were concentrated primarily in the Giddings and Crittendon fields in Texas, and the CimarronField in Oklahoma. The fields tend to have stacked multiple producing horizons. Some of the fields have numerous available wellbores capable of providing workover and recompletion opportunities. Additionally, new 3-D seismic data allows definition of numerous updip proved undeveloped locations throughout the fields. The characteristics of these fields allow the Company to record significant estimated proved behind pipe and estimated proved undeveloped reserves in the annual year-end reserve report. At January 1, 2015, based on the reserves estimate by our independent reservoir engineers, we had 5,788 MBOE of estimated proved reserves. At January 1, 2015, our proved developed (PDP) reserves of 1,335 MBOE were 23% of our total proved reserves, and 69% of our estimated proved reserves were oil and condensate. At January 1, 2014, our proved developed producing (PDP) reserves of 656 MBOE were 13% of our total proved reserves, 72% of our estimated proved reserves were oil and condensate.
Bigfoot - Texas
We control 2,930 net acres across Frio and Atascosa counties in southern Texas, comprising 15% of our total net acreage position. We own and operate 54 gross (54 net) wells in the Bigfoot-Texas acreage position.
Crittendon - Texas
In West Texas, the Crittendon field contains 2,759 net acres. The contiguous block is all within the Delaware Basin and is located in Winkler County. Crittendon contains 14% of our total net acres. We operate our Crittendon Field wells. We currently have 16 gross (10.4 net) oil and gas wells.
Giddings - Bastrop - Texas
Giddings is our largest acreage position with 12,950 net acres located within the Eagle Ford trend. Our acreage is spread across Bastrop, Burleson, Brazos, Fayette, Lee, and Gonzales counties. From an acreage position, Giddings comprises the largest portion of net acres at 65%. Our Giddings oil and gas wells are 45 gross (39.1 net) wells, including 3 gross (1 net) non-operated wells.
Logan County - Oklahoma
Our non-operated working interests are located in Oklahoma, spread across Logan and Kingfisher counties. Our position consists of 1,229 net acres or 6% of our total net acreage position. Our Logan County, Oklahoma wells are non-operated wells. We have participations in 21 gross and 3.8 net oil and gas wells in Logan County, Oklahoma.
Oil and Natural Gas Reserves
Due to the inherent uncertainties and the limited nature of reservoir data, proved reserves are subject to change as additional information becomes available. The estimates of reserves, future cash flows and present value are based on various assumptions, including those prescribed by the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”), and are inherently imprecise. Although we believe these estimates are reasonable, actual future production, cash flows, taxes, development expenditures, operating expenses and quantities of recoverable oil and natural gas reserves may vary substantially from these estimates. Also, the use of a 10% discount factor for reporting purposes may not necessarily represent the most appropriate discount factor, given actual interest rates and risks to which our business or the oil and natural gas industry in general are subject.
These calculations were prepared using standard geological and engineering methods generally accepted by the petroleum industry and in accordance with SEC financial accounting and reporting standards. The estimated present value of proved reserves does not include indirect expenses such as general and administrative expenses, debt service, future income tax expense or depletion, depreciation, and amortization. In accordance with applicable financial accounting and reporting standards of the SEC, the estimates of our proved reserves and the present value of proved reserves set forth herein are made using the average of oil and natural gas spot prices for the West Texas Intermediate oil and Henry Hub gas on the first day of each of the twelve months during 2014. Estimated quantities of proved reserves and their present value are affected by changes in oil and natural gas prices. The arithmetic average reference prices utilized for the purpose of estimating our proved reserves and the present value of proved reserves as of January 1, 2015 were $95.28 per barrel of oil and $4.36 per MMBtu of natural gas.
The following table sets forth our estimated net total oil and natural gas reserves and the PV-10 value of such reserves as of the January 1, 2015 reserve report. The estimated reserve data and the present value as of January 1, 2015 were prepared by Forrest A. Garb & Associates, independent petroleum engineers. For further information concerning our independent engineer’s estimates of our proved reserves as of January 1, 2015, see the reserve report filed as Exhibit 99.3. These reserves estimates were prepared in accordance with the Securities and Exchange Commission’s rules regarding oil and natural gas reserves reporting that were in effect at the time of the preparation of the reserves report. Our total estimated proved reserves are estimated using a conversion ratio of one Bbl per six Mcf. The PV-10 value is not intended to represent the current market value of the estimated oil and natural gas reserves owned by us. For further information concerning the present value of future net revenues from these reserves, see Supplemental Oil and Natural Gas Disclosure in our Financial Statements included elsewhere in this report. All reserves are located in the United States.
_______________________
(1)
Management believes that the presentation of PV-10 may be considered a non-GAAP financial measure as defined in Item 10(e) of Regulation S-K. Therefore we have included a reconciliation of the measure to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure (standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows in the table immediately below). Management believes that the presentation of PV-10 value provides useful information to investors because it is widely used by professional analysts and sophisticated investors in evaluating oil and natural gas companies. Because many factors that are unique to each individual company may impact the amount of future income taxes to be paid, the use of the pre-tax measure provides greater comparability when evaluating companies. It is relevant and useful to investors for evaluating the relative monetary significance of our oil and natural gas properties. Further, investors may utilize the measure as a basis for comparison of the relative size and value of our reserves to other companies. Management also uses this pre-tax measure when assessing the potential return on investment related to its oil and gas properties and in evaluating acquisition candidates. The PV-10 value is not a measure of financial or operating performance under GAAP, nor is it intended to represent the current market value of the estimated oil and natural gas reserves owned by us. PV-10 should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows as defined under GAAP.
We have not reported our reserves to other federal authorities or agencies.
Our reserve report dated January 1, 2015 showed estimated net proven undeveloped reserves of 3,139 MBbl for oil and condensate and 6,447 MMcf for natural gas. This was an decrease of 27 MBbl for oil and condensate and a decrease of 93 MMcf for natural gas. The decrease in oil and condensate proven undeveloped reserves was due to the loss of PUD locations due to the requirement that a development plan for the undeveloped oil and gas reserves must be adopted indicating that such reserves are scheduled to be drilled within five years under SEC Regulation S-X Rule 4-10(a)(31)(ii).. The decrease in natural gas proven undeveloped reserves derives from an increased focus on oil and condensate drilling. Our Consolidated Statement of Cashflows on page shows that we spent $33,296,074 on development of oil and gas properties in the year ending December 31, 2014. These payments resulted in converting 903 net acres from proven undeveloped reserves to proven developed reserves and increased our proven developed reserves for oil and condensate by 306 MBbl (79%) to 692 MMbl. Our proven developed producing natural gas reserves increased by 2,238 MMcf (138%) to 3,854 MMcf, The 103% increase in proven developed BOE reserves is a result of increased drilling activity, as well as the acquisition of the Crittendon field.
We believe that PV-10, a non-GAAP measure of estimated proved reserves is widely used by analysts and investors in evaluating oil and gas companies. Our reconciliation to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure (standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows) is found in the table below. The table below provides a reconciliation of PV-10 as of January 1, 2015 and January 1, 2014 to the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows as of December 31, 2014 and December 31, 2013:
Present value, or PV-10, when used in connection with oil and gas reserves, means the estimated future gross revenue to be generated from the production of proved reserves, net of estimated production and future development costs, using prices calculated as the average natural gas and oil price during the preceding 12-month period prior to the end of the current reporting period, (determined as the unweighted arithmetical average of prices on the first day of each month within the 12-month period) and costs in effect at the determination date, without giving effect to non-property related expenses such as general and administrative expenses, debt service and future income tax expense or to depreciation, depletion and amortization, discounted using an annual discount rate of 10%.
Estimates of reserves as of January 1, 2015 and January 1, 2014 were prepared using an average price equal to the unweighted arithmetic average of hydrocarbon prices received on a field-by-field basis on the first day of each month within the 12-month periods ended January 1, 2015 and January 1, 2014, in accordance with revised SEC guidelines applicable to reserves estimates as of the end of 2014 and 2013. The reserve estimates represent our net revenue interest in our properties. Although we believe these estimates are reasonable, actual future production, cash flows, taxes, development expenditures, operating expenses and quantities of recoverable oil and natural gas reserves may vary substantially from these estimates.
Our proved reserve estimate report dated January 1, 2015, attached as Exhibit 99.2 uses the following average adjusted prices:
Oil - $95.28 / bbl
Gas - $4.36 / Mcf
Our proved reserve estimate report dated January 1, 2014, attached as Exhibit 99.3, uses the following average adjusted prices:
Oil - $94.34 / bbl
Gas - $6.68 / Mcf
The standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows relies on estimates of oil and gas reserves using commodity prices and costs at year-­end. The benchmark oil and gas prices used are the preceding 12-month averages of the first-day-of-the month spot prices posted for the WTI oil and Henry Hub natural gas. Oil prices have been adjusted by lease for gravity, transportation fees, and regional price differentials. Gas prices per thousand cubic feet have been adjusted by lease for Btu content, transportation fees, and regional price differentials. The adjustments are based on the differential between historic oil and gas sales and the corresponding benchmark price.
Proved reserves are those oil and gas reserves, which, by analysis of geoscience and engineering data, can be estimated with “reasonable certainty” to be economically producible-from a given date forward, from known reservoirs, and under existing economic conditions, operating methods, and government regulations-prior to the time at which contracts providing the right to operate expire, unless evidence indicates that renewal is reasonably certain. For proved reserves, the drilling for oil and gas must have commenced or the operator must be reasonably certain that it will commence the project within a reasonable time period.
“Reasonable certainty” can be determined under two approaches. If deterministic methods are used, reasonable certainty means a “high degree of confidence” that the quantities will be recovered. A “high degree of confidence” exists if the quantity is much more likely to be achieved than not, and, as changes due to increased availability of geoscience (geological, geophysical, and geochemical), engineering, and economic data are made to estimate ultimate recovery with time and with reasonable certainty that the estimated ultimate recovery is much more likely to increase or remain constant than to decrease. If probabilistic methods are used, reasonable certainty means at least a 90% probability that the quantities actually recovered will equal or exceed the estimate.
The reserve estimates are prepared by Forrest Garb & Associates, Inc., qualified third party engineering firms by licensed engineers as part of the Company’s internal controls. All of the Company’s reserves were subject to the reserve report by Forrest Garb & Associates, Inc. and the Company has not presented any internally-generated reserve amounts that were not included in the report from Forrest Garb & Associates, Inc. The Company’s technical person primarily responsible for overseeing the Forrest Garb & Associates, Inc. reserve estimates was Edward Shaw, our Chief Operating Officer. Mr. Shaw has been an officer of ImPetro Resources LLC since its inception in February 2010 and our Chief Operating Officer since we were formed in June 2011. Mr. Shaw was also Chief Operating Officer of South Texas Oil Company from 2005 to 2010 and headed its field operations in Texas. Thus, Mr. Shaw has extensive operational experience in the areas in which we concentrate our oil and gas operations. Mr. Shaw worked from 2000 to 2005 in New Zealand researching and developing methods of monitoring oil wells to optimize production, including using existing products integrated with emerging telemetry technologies. Mr. Shaw has a degree in electrical engineering.
Oil and Natural Gas Volumes, Prices and Operating Expense
The following tables set forth certain information regarding the production volumes, revenue, average prices received and average production costs associated with our sale of oil and natural gas from continuing operations for the two years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013. The drilling operations on the Bigfoot-Texas formations in fiscal 2013 and 2014 generally targeted drilling out the properties with shallower, less expensive wells thus holding the leases and preventing them from expiring. This means that deeper formations such as Eagle Ford and Pearsall Shales are held by production and can be developed or sold at a later date.
Exploration, Development and Acquisition Capital Expenditures
The following table sets forth certain information regarding the gross costs incurred in the purchase of proved and unproved properties and in development and exploration activities.
Producing Wells
The following table sets forth the number of producing oil and natural gas wells in which we owned an interest as of December 31, 2014. Some wells produce both oil and natural gas.
Acreage Data
The following table summarizes our gross and net developed and undeveloped oil and natural gas acreage under lease as of December 31, 2014.
__________________________
(1)
Undeveloped acreage includes acreage located in the Bigfoot fields.
(2)
Other includes acreage in Giddings.
As is customary in the oil and natural gas industry, we can generally retain our interest in undeveloped acreage by drilling activity that establishes commercial production sufficient to maintain the leases or by paying delay rentals during the remaining primary term of leases. The oil and natural gas leases in which we have an interest are for varying primary terms, and if production under a lease continues from our developed lease acreage beyond the primary term, we are entitled to hold the lease for as long as oil or natural gas is produced.
Our oil and natural gas properties consist primarily of oil and natural gas wells and our interests in leasehold acreage, both developed and undeveloped.
Drilling Activity
The following table sets forth our drilling activity during the twelve month period ended December 31, 2014 and 2013 (excluding wells in progress at the end of the period). In the table, “gross” refers to the total number of wells in which we have a working interest and “net” refers to gross wells multiplied by our working interest therein.
Present Activities
Since December 31, 2014, we have completed and began producing 1 well (0.4 net wells) in McClain County, Oklahoma.
Lease Expiration Summary
Most of our oil and gas leases are held by production or have terms, including delay rentals, which extend beyond December 31, 2016. The following table is a summary of our expiring leases in 2015 and 2016 cross-referenced to assigned proven undeveloped estimated reserves. 0.53% of our estimated proved reserves and 0.76% of our estimated proven undeveloped reserves are subject to oil and gas leases that expire before December 31, 2016. In order to maintain these reserves, we will need to either commence operations relating to these properties or negotiate lease extensions. We will require sufficient capital to complete or participate in the required drilling program or lease extensions. We do not anticipate that any lease extension will bring the lease terms past 2017.
The following table is based on estimates as of December 31, 2014. Some of the Texas reserve units with assigned proven undeveloped reserves have leases expiring in both 2015 and 2016. Such unit reserves have been divided up between 2015 and 2016 based on the percentage net acreage within the reserve units assigned to the respective leases. The Oklahoma properties do not have proven undeveloped reserve units containing leases with 2015 or 2016 expirations. Our Bigfoot properties do not have expiring leases in 2015 or 2016.
Effective Date - December 31, 2014
Management’s Experience with Horizontal Drilling
The Company intends to engage in directional drilling, which includes horizontal drilling, to develop our estimated proven undeveloped reserves, particularly in our Eagle Ford Shale play acreage. Our CEO, Michael Pawelek has been engaged in directional drilling and operating wells in our target areas since 1999. Our Chief Operating Officer, Edward Shaw has been engaged in directional drilling and operating wells in our target areas since 2005 and has been involved in over thirty directionally drilled wells during that period. Further, the Company’s Vice-President of Operations, Thomas Saunders, has extensive directional drilling experience. Mr. Saunders has 36 years of domestic and international production and drilling experience, including 31 years of direct supervisory drilling, workover, construction, and production operations experience. Mr. Saunders’ past experience has been with Tenneco, Arco, Anadarko, and BP. He received a BS degree in Petroleum Engineering from Texas A&M University. Mr. Saunders worked from 1979 to 1982 in our operational area and has had several consulting engagements in our operational area since then. Mr. Saunders has participated in the drilling of over 200 directionally drilled wells starting in the 1990s.
Delivery Commitments
The Company is not currently committed to providing a fixed and determinable quantity of oil or gas under existing contracts.
Item 3.