Item 2. Properties.
Description of Properties
LithiumOre, the Company’s wholly owned subsidiary, currently has 1,040 placer mining claims on over 20,000 acres in the area known as the Western Nevada Basin, situated in Railroad Valley in Nye County, Nevada. We do not currently have any partnership agreements or royalty agreements in connection with such claims.
We own a 120-acre property with water rights, in the town of Duckwater, NV near Railroad Valley, which we acquired for exploratory purposes and was fully impaired in prior years. It will act as a base for such operations for the Company.
We lease from the Bureau of Land Management our Western Nevada Basin Claim where we are exploring and drilling for possible lithium-rich brine.
The Western Nevada Basin (WNB) Claim is located in east central Nye County, Nevada (Figure 1) approximately 93 miles northeast of the county seat of Tonopah, NV, the major commercial center for the region; 56 miles southwest of the town of Ely, NV and 120 miles northeast of the village of Silver Peak the only currently operating Lithium producer in the State.
Figure 1. Location Map. The Western Nevada Basin Claim is located within the central portion of the Railroad Valley, approximately 169 miles north-northwest of Las Vegas, NV and 234 miles east-southeast of Reno, NV.
Figure 2. The Western Nevada Basin Claim covers just over 30,000 acres. It consists of a total of one thousand three hundred (1,300) placer claims. Each claim covers approximately 20 acres and was laid out by aliquot parts as required by the Bureau of Land Management.
Lithium is a locatable mineral according to the Code of Federal Regulations. Rights to Lithium are to be held by lode claims where it occurs in bedrock and by placer claims where it occurs in sediments. A body of legal precedence set during the original development of lithium brines in the area provides that lithium in valley sediments by nature of the unconsolidated host rock are staked by and produced from placer claims.
The WNB Claim is held by 1,300 twenty-acre placer claims, which are located on public Federal lands managed by the Bureau of Land Management (BLM). The placer claims are located on U.S. Surveyed lands and fit to aliquot parts.
In Nevada the claim staking procedure requires recording documents with both the county Recorder’s Office and the state BLM office. Claims must be held by posts at the claims four corners and Notice of Location which describe the claims legal description of location and owner. The claims are required to be recorded at the county courthouse within the proper jurisdiction within 90 days from the staking date.
Placer claims on Federal lands are held to a September 1 to August 31 assessment year when Intent to Hold or Proof of Labor documents need to be filed with the county for the annual assessment work. The pertinent documents are filed with the Nye County Recorder’s Office.
260 claims were staked by the third Party, Plateau Ventures LLC of Moab, Utah and 1,040 claims were staked by 3 Proton Lithium, Inc. of Carson City, Nevada. Official rights to the claims by ABMC are subject to Quit Claim Deed Transfer Approval by BLM. ABMC received full entitlement to its claims in the Western Nevada Basin by way of the Quit Claim Deeds on January 2, 2017 (260 claims), August 13, 2018, (40 claims) and August 28, 2018 (1,000 claims). The current annual maintenance fee is $155 per 20-acre (or a portion thereof) placer claim (http://www.blm.gov/ca/st/en/info/iac/miningfacts.html). Payment of those fees allows the claim to stay on the BLM active database. Non-payment results in the claims moving to ‘closed’ status.
Before August 31st of each year, a payment of $155 per claim is made to the BLM to hold the claims in good standing for the following assessment year. The total cost for the 1,300 WNB Claims was $203,260. In August 2017, the Company paid $42,060 to the BLM for 260 Claims. In August 2018, the Company paid $6,200 to the BLM for 40 Claims, and $155,000 to the BLM for 1,000 Claims. These fees were also paid in 2018 and 2019 in order to maintain the current mining claims. When fees are paid a claim is deemed ‘active’. Active and approved claims are Before October 31st of each year, it is necessary to make a payment to Nye County, NV, of $10 per claim to file an affidavit of assessment fees paid and notice of intent to hold the claims into the next assessment year. The total cost for the current 1,300 WNB claims is $13,000. Payments to the County of $15,586 are current as of October 31, 2019.
As public lands, there is right of free access and both surface and mineral rights are held by the Federal government. Public records (Management, Bureau of Land) show no military withdrawals or Areas of Critical Environmental Concern. The Railroad Valley Wildlife Management Area is located to the west of the WNB claim boundary and has no effect on any planned work on the WNB claim area.
There is free access to the Federal land in Railroad Valley and there are no restrictions on casual prospecting. New exploration drilling will trigger a permitting process. There are two major levels of permitting: Notice of Intent (NOI) and Plan of Operations (POO). Historically, if the proposed disturbance was less than 5 acres or 1,000 tons, then the work can proceed under a NOI if there are no complications such as ancient ruins or endangered species. Application for a NOI is relatively simple with requirements like bonding the access route and re-seeding afterwards. A NOI is valid for two years and may be renewed every two years. Maintaining it requires maintaining bonds and reclaiming any new disturbance which includes re-seeding vegetation in disturbed areas when the work is complete. A POO is more complicated requiring more in-depth studies including an archeological survey, and comprehensive environmental assessments as required by the National Environmental Protection Act. The BLM may respond within 15 days to a NOI application whereas a POO may require several months to years for final acceptance.
Any drilling planned will require a NOI filed with the Tonopah office of the BLM. To the best of the Company’s knowledge, there are no known environmental liabilities to which the property is subject or other significant factors and risks that may affect access, title, or the right or ability to perform work on the property. The NOI permit for the drilling site was approved on July 13, 2018.
Accessibility
The main route of access to the WNB project is Nevada State U.S. Route 6 which provides all year access to Railroad Valley and the project area. U.S. Route 6 provides direct access to the two nearby commercial centers; Tonopah, located southwest of the project at the junction of Routes 6 and 95, approximately 90 minutes away, and Ely, a slightly larger commercial center with a population of over 4,200 approximately, located northeast of the project approximately 60 minutes away. US Highway 95 is the main highway linking Las Vegas and Reno, the two largest metropolitan areas in Nevada.
Climate
Railroad Valley is in the rain shadow of the Sierra Nevada Mountains. The region is arid to almost semiarid. Winters are cold while summers are hot. Average annual precipitation is approximately 5 inches; however, variations occur at differing altitudes. Exploration can be conducted in the spring, summer, and fall seasons.
Local Resources
The Railroad Valley contains several small communities; which include Currant, Crows Nest, Green Springs, Lockes, and Nyala. Electrical power is available within the valley area.
The larger population centers of Ely and Tonopah are connected via U.S. Route 6 to the project area. Tonopah has a population of approximately 2,500 and is the governmental center for the region. Ely has a population of approximately 4,200 and is the closest commercial center. Groceries, hardware, a bank and a choice of motels and restaurants are available in both Ely and Tonopah.
The area has a long history of mining. Mining personnel can be sourced mostly from the larger towns of Tonopah or Ely.
Infrastructure
A reasonable network of 4x4, graded and paved roads connects the claim area to the rest of Nevada. Electrical power is available at several sites throughout the valley and could easily provide power to any operation at the project area. The nearest rail and large commercial airline service are in Las Vegas, NV approximately 169 miles to the south.
Physiography
Railroad Valley is one of the longest topographically closed drainage basins in Nevada, extending more than 110 miles in a north-south direction and up to 20 miles wide. This valley is one of the Central Nevada Desert Basins in the Tonopah Basin. The southern end of the valley begins near Gray Top Mountain (7,036 feet) and stretches north all the way to Mount Hamilton (10,745 feet). The mountain masses are dominated by the White Pine, Grant and Quinn Canyon ranges east of the valley.
Railroad Valley comprises an area of approximately 2,750 square miles. Two large flat areas occur within the valley. The claims are located on the large Northern flat area of the valley floor at elevations generally of 4400 - 4700 feet. The valley floor is characterized by subdued topography with washes eroding into slightly older valley-fill sediments.
The claims are located on the flat areas where vegetation is scarce. There is sufficient surface area for recovery and processing facilities within the Claims.
Geologic Setting
The claims are located in the Basin and Range physiographic province which stretches from southern Oregon and Idaho to Mexico. It is characterized by extreme elevation changes between mountains and flat intermountain valleys or basins.
Plate tectonics powered by crustal spreading broadly generates two types of forces: compression as plates are moved together and extension as those forces relax. Compression was the dominant geologic force affecting the western United States beginning about 200 million years ago as the Pacific Ocean plate moved eastward under the North American continental plate. Those forces compressed the overlying pile of sedimentary rocks accumulated over hundreds of millions of years into a thick stack reaching up to elevations of 14,000 feet, similar to the altiplano of Mexico and South America which formed at the same time from similar forces. That highland plateau stretched west - east from the Sierra Nevada Mountains in California to the Wasatch Range in Utah.
Extension became the dominant force beginning in the Eocene - Oligocene epochs approximately 55 to 25 million years ago. Also, the relative movement of the tectonic plates changed about 30 million years ago with the movement becoming more oblique to the continent. This relaxed the compressional forces and also tended to ‘tear’ the crust apart, creating diagonal extensions.
The resulting compressional and extensional tectonics have created throughout Nevada a classical Basin and Range province consisting of narrow, N- to NE-trending, fault block mountain chains separated by flat linear valleys. This geological pattern is repeated across the State and has created a number of currently arid, ‘trapped’ or closed basins with respect to drainage that have the potential of containing Lithium Brine deposits.
Geology of Lithium Brines
Lithium brine deposits are accumulations of saline groundwater that are enriched in dissolved lithium. All producing lithium brine deposits share a number of first-order characteristics:
(1) arid climate;
(2) closed basin containing a salt flat (also known as a Playa or Salar);
(3) tectonically driven subsidence;
(4) associated igneous or geothermal activity;
(5) suitable lithium source-rocks;
(6) one or more adequate aquifers; and
(7) sufficient time to concentrate a brine.
The single most important factor determining if a nonmarine basin can accumulate lithium brine is whether or not the basin is closed.
Lithium enriched brines are formed by complex processes that include: evaporation, re-mobilization, salt and lithium clay dissolution and precipitation. In essence, lithium is liberated through weathering or derived from hydrothermal fluids from a variety of rock sources within a closed basin where Lithium, a lightweight element, cannot escape.
Lithium is highly soluble and, unlike sodium (Na), potassium (K), or calcium (Ca), does not readily produce evaporite minerals when concentrated by evaporation. Instead it ends up in residual brines in the shallow subsurface. Economic brines have Li concentrations in the range of 200 to 4,000 milligrams per liter (mg/l). 1 mg/l = 1 ppm.
Clayton Valley contains the only currently producing Lithium Brine project in Nevada. Production has been on-going since 1967. The production at Clayton Valley is located approximately 120 miles west of the Railroad Valley. Evidence from Clayton Valley suggests that felsic vitric tuffs are a particularly favorable primary source of Lithium as well, uplifted Neogene lake beds from earlier in the basin’s history, which have been altered to hectorite, may provide a source of Lithium.
Geology of Railroad Valley
Railroad Valley has produced about 44 million barrels of oil (MMBO) from nine petroleum fields and has been extensively studied to determine relations between structure and oil production. Several interpretations of basin configuration have evolved, based on improved seismic acquisition and processing and better understanding of deformation styles and kinetics.
Oil was first discovered at Railroad Valley by Shell Oil in 1954. Their first discovery well reached a depth of 10,360 feet and it was determined that there were commercial oil reserves at intervals between 6,450 and 6,730 feet. The valley area is essentially wedge shaped with the wedge increasing in thickness from west to east. A low-angle attenuation fault has been reported to underlie Railroad Valley which has been interpreted to be a result of asymmetric arching rather than a series of down-to-the-west high-angle normal faults.
The stratigraphy of the valley is known to contain Paleozoic platform carbonate rocks, Tertiary volcanic rocks, and Tertiary lacustrine sediments. In comparison to Clayton Valley, the Railroad Valley has a large endowment of Neogene volcanic flows and tophaceous rocks.
Oil exploration has reported several laterally continuous thick Lithium brine horizons throughout Railroad Valley. Testing for Lithium from the brines was not conducted by the oil industry. Good reservoir rocks for oil may not represent good reservoir hosts for Lithium. The underlying brine-waters of the Railroad Valley were at one time examined as a potential reservoir for Las Vegas.
Volcanic rocks form a large part of the Neogene rock sequence: ash-flow tuffs and basalt flows from major calderas in eastern and central Nevada. Thickness of the volcanic section can vary greatly because of Neogene erosion and faulting. The thickness of ash flow tuffs in Railroad Valley can range from less than 1,000 ft to more than 3,000 ft. These rocks have shown good porosity and may represent an enormous source for Lithium.
Tertiary lacustrine formations consist of varying proportions of fresh-water carbonate, shale, sandstone, and volcanic debris. To date, oil production from Tertiary lacustrine reservoirs is limited, but there is production from the Sheep Pass Formation in the Eagle Springs field, and formerly there was production from Currant field; both in Railroad Valley.
The northern Playa area of Railroad Valley contained a large lake during the Pleistocene Epoch, more than 7,000 years ago. The lake has subsequently evaporated within the valley; however, at one point it reportedly covered an area of over 525 square miles and attained a maximum depth of 315 feet. The large Railroad Valley north playa today is partly covered by young erosional alluvium.
Mineral Resources and Mineral Reserves
The Railroad Valley has demonstrated enrichment in Lithium in the nearby dry sediments as evidenced from the NURE sample database from the U.S. Geologic Survey. However, the project is at an exploration stage. There are no lithium brine mineral resources or reserves for the property.
Exploration and Development
Exploration and Development would consist of direct sampling and analysis of Lithium both laterally and vertically across the project area from both volcanic horizons and underground Brines contained within the Playa. Drilling and mobilization represent the largest costs of the program. Every effort would be made to minimize costs and maximize the sampling of brine from either re-entry and perforation of ‘shut-in’ oil wells or testing of current water wells in the project area.
Exploration Time Table
The work for the initial phase exploration program will be designed over the following four to five months. Surficial sampling will be performed from February to March 2020 and Drilling and sampling from April to June. Analytical analysis will follow each program.
We began and completed the drilling of the initial test and production hole in May 2019. The breakdown of the exploration timetable and budget is as follows:
Exploration Activity
Estimated Timetable
Budget
Oil and Water Well Testing
2016-2018
$300,000 (approximately)
Surface Sampling
2016-2018
$100,000 (approximately)
Geophysics
Ongoing
$44,200
Drilling
Ongoing
$705,280
Geochemistry
Ongoing for 2 years
$300,000 yearly
Production
In development, 6-18 months
TBD
Current and Prior Program Phases
Phase 1 Exploration of Potential Development Areas (2016 - 2018)
(a)Oil and water well testing in partnership with 3PL Operating Inc.
(b)Surface sampling conducted by our chief geologist Greg Kuzma (June 2016 to present day)
(c)Geophysical survey conducted by Zonge International Inc. (3/6/19 - present)
Phase 2 Beginning Exploration and Production Drilling (May 2019)
(a)Initial test and production drilling hole conducted by Welsco Inc. under the supervision of chief drilling engineer George Scheid.
Phase 3 Studying Geochemistry of Initial Drilling Results (June 2019)
(a)Chemistry, led by chief chemist Axel Drefahl
Current Exploration Plans
As stated above we began the drilling of the initial test and production hole in May 2019 and we intend to continue exploration upon the Company obtaining necessary financing for such exploration. The Company intends to fund the exploration program through a series of equity or debt private placements to accredited investors or through the seeking of joint venture partners.
Exploratory Team
Below are individuals and companies that the Company currently intends to use for exploration work and their qualifications.
Welsco Drilling Corp - Drilling Contractor:
Welsco Drilling Corporation brings 50 years of experience conducting geothermal, water well, and mineral exploration to our project. Welsco began operation with an old cable tool back in 1973. The Corporation continued to drill water wells and provide pump services until the early 80s where work began with its first geothermal steam project. Since that time Welsco has honed its skills in the Geothermal Steam arena, has completed a multitude of water well projects and has added a 24-hour pump service.
John Young and Matt Dusenberry - Permitting
John Young has been the Principal Environmental Services Specialist at Great Basin Environmental Services, LLC for over 5 years, providing environmental permitting and consulting services to the exploration and mining industry. Before that, he was vice president of Mining and Minerals at Tetra Tech, a leading provider of consulting and engineering services. He is a successful mining professional with a diverse background in planning and managing mineral exploration, mine development, remediation, reclamation, and mine closure operations. He has experience in construction, drilling, remediation, mine closure, reclamation, environmental permitting, environmental compliance, NEPA, and regulatory oversight. He has experience with precious metals, base metals, and industrial mineral and is a National Instrument 43-101 Compliant Qualified Party.
Matt Dusenberry obtained an M.S. in land Rehabilitation from Montana State University and has more than 7 years’ experience including mine permitting and environmental design, laboratory and field instrumentation, and soil and groundwater data collection, analysis and research. Matt has assisted with development of approximately 10 integrated permit application documents. He has prepared AutoCAD drawings, narrative plans, and detailed databases in Excel to support permitting of mining operations on Bureau of land Management and private lands in Nevada. He has assisted principals in preparing a plan of operations, environmental assessment, water pollution control permits, reclamation plans and cost estimates to support financial assurance and bonding, an environmental assessment, air emissions inventories and permit applications, Spill Prevention Control and Countermeasures Plans (SPCC), and Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plans (SWPPP) for both copper and gold mining operations in Nevada. Matt assisted with a comprehensive review of international reclamation and closure practices and standards for a major international gold mining company, performed a geotechnical investigation of faults in California and conducted vegetation surveys in Nevada.
Chris Facque - Water Rights Manager
Chris Facque is the lead Water Right Specialist with Farr West Engineering. Chris manages the water rights for a variety of clients throughout Nevada. He is experienced in all aspects of water rights, including research, permit filings, title assignment, survey monitoring and mapping, forfeiture prevention, proofs, and permit compliance. Chris graduated with a degree in Political Science at the University of Nevada, Reno (UNR) in 2005. In 2005 Chris began working for Tri State Surveying, Ltd., increasing the depth of his knowledge while working on several Northern Nevada water rights projects. Chris is proficient in drafting water rights maps, and is a Certified Survey Technician through the National Society of Professional Surveyors. Chris has worked with several Nevada County Recorders and other agencies, including the Truckee Carson Irrigation District, the Southern Nevada Water Authority and California Water Resources Control Board. Over the course of his 10 year involvement with water rights, he has acquired extensive experience in managing water rights projects from agricultural to mining to wildlife.
Zonge International - Geophysical Survey Operator
The company was formed in 1972 by Kenneth L. Zonge who developed the complex resistivity (CR) investigation method, demonstrated its uses for natural-resource exploration, and became the first to build a microprocessor-based electromagnetic (EM) receiver in the early 1970s. Today, Zonge serves as a resource to exploration managers, engineers and independent consultants in three application areas- exploration, environmental and geotechnical. The company performs hundreds of projects each year involving seismic, magnetics, gravity and other geophysical methods, in addition to the EM methods it helped establish. Formerly Zonge Engineering and Research Organization, the company changed its name to Zonge International in 2011.
George Scheid- Chief Drilling Engineer:
Mr. Scheid currently serves as Senior Driller Project Manager at Teton Energy Services and brings more than 30 years of experience managing onsite drilling operations in the exploration and mining industry. For the last 14 years he has worked as drilling project manager, first with Omat Nevada, then with Thermasource, Inc, where he managed onsite drilling and work-over projects. He reviewed and evaluated mud reports, bit records, and drilling operations to prepare daily status reports for distribution and made real-time adjustments to equipment and strategies relevant to drilling conditions.
Greg Kuzma- Chief Geologist:
Mr. Kuzma is the Director of Exploration for the Company. Mr. Kuzma is a graduate of the University of Southern California and is a well-respected and highly skilled exploration geologist with over 30 years’ experience. Mr. Kuzma has consulted with numerous mining groups and spent 12 years as Senior Project Geologist in Nevada for Teck Resources. Mr. Kuzma has extensive experience in the Southwest United States, Mexico, El Salvador and Argentina. He has evaluated, designed, managed and implemented over 40 drill programs within Nevada’s Great Basin.
Ross Leisinger - Geologist:
Mr. Leisinger has more than 30 years of experience in the exploration and mining industry and has participated in numerous projects from initial project conception through production. He also has decades of experience liaising with local and federal authorities as well as establishing and operating mining businesses in Nevada and abroad.
Vincent Ramirez - Engineer and Advisor:
Mr. Ramirez is the CEO of 3PLOperating Co., Inc. a private mining group company, and was the former Chairman of Vostochnaya Transnational, Lead Exploration and Operations Geologist for Shell Oil and Exploration Geologist for Shell Western E&P Inc. Vincent Ramirez has an M.A. degree in Geology from UC Santa Barbara. He has drilled 61 oil and gas wildcats worldwide, including 44 discoveries. While at Shell Oil, Vincent also was the Operations Manager for the San Joaquin Basin, and he was the appointed Structural Geology instructor at the Shell Research Lab. Vincent discovered and developed several oil fields in central Siberia during 10 years with the Lundin Group. During this time, he transformed an oil company from bankruptcy to $850 Million in value, drilled the highest-producing well in Russia (11,500 BOPD), and drilled the first multi-lateral wells in Russia, while overseeing 350 employees as CEO. He has published extensively on structural geology subjects, including the San Andreas Fault, Ridge Basin, the California Coast Ranges, and Obduction Tectonics.
Axel Drefahl - Chief Chemist
Dr. Axel Drefahl is ABMC’s director of chemistry/extraction. His interests include understanding nanostructure diversity and how it inspires and launches smart and flexible applications towards a sustainable future. His previous work includes roles as a metallurgical research scientist at Cycladex and a cheminformatician at Axeleratio, and metallurgical assay chemist and informatician at Comstock Mining Inc. He is also the project founder at CurlySMILES, a chemical line notation which extends SMILES with annotations for storage, retrieval and modeling of interlinked, coordinated, assembled and adsorbed molecules in supramolecular structures and nanodevices. Axel’s work comprises web design and software development for virtual, high-throughput screening, combinatorial materials design and problem-driven nanostructure-search algorithms. He received his Ph.D. in Cheminformatics/Molecular Modeling from Technical University Munich in 1989 and continued his post-doctorate at Stanford University.
William Hunter - Director, and CFO of AMCI, previous head of mining for Jefferies:
Mr. Hunter received his B.S. from DePaul University in Chicago and an MBA with distinction from the Kellstadt School of Business at DePaul University. Mr. Hunter is an experienced financial executive with over 20 years of advisory and capital markets experience. Bill led the Americas Banking team at Nomura where he advised Mitsui in their acquisition of a minority interest in the Moatize Coal Mining complex from Vale and Globe Specialty Metals in their $3.1 billion ‘merger of equals’ transaction with FerroAtlantica. Before Nomura he led the team at Jefferies and did numerous transactions for companies like Alpha Natural Resources, Fortescue Metals Group and Murray Energy.
Other Mineral Properties
We are not contemplating any other mineral properties at this time.
Item 3.