ITEM 2. PROPERTIES.
Oroplata office is at #3 - 7 San Marcos, Peurto Plata, Dominican Republic. This is the private residence of Mr. Sosa who is our sole officer and director. At the present time Oroplata does not require its own office space due to having no employees, other than Mr. Sosa, but will consider renting office space once our exploration and staff requirements demand it. This might occur subsequent to Phase II of our exploration work on the Leomary.
The Leomary was obtained by Oroplata Exploraciones E Ingenieria, Orexi, SRL, and the designation was filed with the Ministry of Industry and Commerce and Mining Directorate of the Government of the Dominican Republic and registered with file No. S9-046 dated 04 of April 2012.
Oroplate owns no real estate as such and only has an interest in the minerals on the Leomary. The Company does not own the property itself but has the exclusive rights to explore and develop any minerals on the Leomary.
Information relating to the Leomary Gold Claim:
Name of Claim:
Leomary Gold Claim
File Number:
S9-046
Date of acquiring Leomary
April 4, 2012
Topographic Sheet No.
6172 - IV
Scale:
1:50,000
Boundaries per UTM cooridnates:
(I9Q): 342.000 to 347.500 mE; and
2’089,000 - 2’098,500 mN
Concession Unit:
4,500 Hectares
Registered Owner:
Oroplata Exploraciones E Ingenieria, Orexi S.R.L.
Property Description and Location
The Leomary is located in the province of Monseñor Nouel, municipality of Bonao, in the central region of the country, about 75 kilometers from the city of Santo Domingo, Dominican Republic. Located in the sections of Jayaco, Masipedro and Arroyo Toro. Exactly at four kilometers from the town of Bonao.
The Dominican Republic has three major highways are DR-1, DR-2, and DR-3, which go to the northern, southwestern, and eastern parts of the country, respectively. Access in the Property area is via a system of all-weather country roads used by local cattle ranchers and farmers which branch off of Highway DR-1. The Capital city of Santo Domingo is located about 90 miles to the south of the Leomary.
The main access road to the claim is the No.1 highway or Duarte Highway, which connects the capital city of Santo Domingo to Santiago. On this route in the town of Bonao continue along the road to the community Los Quemados, access to the claim area is through very well constructed roads. Seaports and airports facilities are located nearby.
Soils of the mountain valleys of the Cordillera Central, where the claim is located
Confined by the higher elevations of the mountains of the Cordillera Central are four main valleys, which in order of importance are the Valley of Bonao, Constanza Valley, Valley of Villa Altagracia and the Jarabacoa Valley.
Bonao Valley covers an area of 80 miles rectangular greater, in the northeastern part of the Central Cordillera. It has more than 79 inches average annual rainfall, which has been recorded in the city of Bonao, located in the central part of the valley an annual average of 86 inches. The main soil of this valley, are: undifferentiated alluvial soils for the series La Vega.
Bonao Valley consists, for the most part, by a succession of alluvial soils, rivers and streams that run almost parallel. These soils are usually brown, sandy loam, large rounded gravel content. The level of fertility of these soils is high and has been sustained by the continuing contributions of materials deposited by rivers and streams.
Wet Forest - Lower Montane (BH-MB)
Most of this living area is in the foothills of the Cordillera Central, between bh-S and bmh-MB, on land topography and soils with low productivity. In the mountains of Bahoruco Neyba and hillside land that are over 2,600 feet correspond to this formation.
The weather that brings this area of life are the most advantageous for human and animal life, but in the country, these areas are sparsely populated. The small population is partly due to the low quality of their soils, lack of roads and the settler has yet to develop appropriate techniques for the use of these lands. Temperatures are moderate, much like those that characterize a temperate climate, and rainfall, although irregular, are able to keep some moisture in the ground for much of the year.
Rainfall is heaviest from April to November. The amount of rainfall varies from place to place, from 85 to 170 inches average annual total.
The temperatures have little variation during the day and at any time of year. December through February can drop to -1° C, giving rise to possible frost. However, the temperature has an annual average varies between 18° and 12° C. The average annual bio-temperature for this life zone has values close to those of the average temperature, because it never becomes greater than 30° C, and rarely below -1° C. Thermal conditions that owns this area constitute a limiting factor for the development of crops most sensitive to low temperatures.
Potential evapo-transpiration, on average, a percentage equal to the total annual rainfall. The percentage of water evapo-transpiration is equal to the amount of rainfall, which results in that the beds of streams that originate in this area of life carry water only during the months of maximum precipitation. The land in this area of life are mostly a hilly topography. Moderate sloping areas are small and scattered forming narrow valleys, lacking roads. The elevation varies from 2,600 feet to 6,600 feet in height.
The primary natural vegetation consists mainly of pine trees. Other species of conifers found especially in southern slopes of the Cordillera Central are juniper (Juniperus gracilior) and Podocarpus buchii. The main broadleaf species are Vaccinium Garrya fadyenii and cubense, own of the areas that are located near Constanta and Bahoruco; Rapanea ferruginea, common in the northern slopes of the Cordillera Central, near Jarabacoa and San Jose de las Matas, and Buddleia domingensis, which is a species that occurs in areas near the bmh-MB in the Cordillera Central.
Native species have an easy natural regeneration, by moisture in the soil, and are of moderate growth. From the ecological point of view the land meet optimal characteristics for farming and forestry. Pests and diseases in the species used are very sporadic. However, agricultural activities are restricted by the soil factor, as they are very small areas that can be used for agriculture.
Working Methodology
Between the years 1997-2000 IT was held in the Dominican Republic a "Geothematic Mapping Project called SYSMIN”, which included a sub-project of Geochemical Mapping and Cartography quadrants metallogenic of Bonao Constanza and 1:100,000 scale. The study has raised a density and exceptional variety of mineralization. This feature is consistent with the tectonic framework of the country, which is particularly favorable to the formation of different types of mineralization, several of those with great importance and significant economic.
The geologists have taken 83 active sediment samples, fourteen of these samples are of high and important mineralization - see following schedule.
There are no infractructure located on the Leomary. Electricity is available in the area since the main source of energy is obtainable from the power plant located in the municipality of Bonao. Water can be obtained from the numerous small streets flowing through the Leomary.
Deposit Types and Mineralization
One of the characteristics of the tuffs of the Tireo Formation is the intense alteration that have suffered, making it difficult in many cases the recognition of the original rock. These hydrothermal alteration processes are very important because they are associated, in many cases, mineral deposits, such as sulphide mineralization and base metals and precious metals associated with epithermal processes. These hydrothermal alteration processes can occur in many different forms, manifested by the appearance of different mineral phases: amorphous silica, quartz, feldspar, albite, calcite, montmorillonite, illite, kaolinite, chlorite, epidote, zeolites, etc.
The Dominican Republic and the Greater Antilles in general, are composed of fragments of intra-oceanic island arc volcanic rocks. These fragments were probably once part of a single, continuous, southwest-facing island arc that formed off the west coast of the Americas and was active from Lower Cretaceous through Eocene time.
In the Dominican Republic, the axial primitive island arc (PIA) is preserved in submarine to locally subaerial volcanic rocks of the Los Ranchos and Tireo Formation. Coeval Lower Cretaceous bimodal volcaniclastic rocks of the fore-arc basin are preserved in the Maimón and Amina Formations. Tireo Formation is locally overlain by Albian reef limestones of the Hatillo Formation. These are in turn overlain by black argillites of the Lagunas Formation.
Epithermal Au mineralization
Constanza quadrant lies the epithermal Au mineralization Centenario (El Higo) that fit the Tireo Formation. The mineralization occurs in quartz veins with gold, copper, zinc and barium, and developing an intense silicification of the host rock. It is a low sulphidation epithermal mineralization. Next to it is Philonian Cu mineralization of La Ceiba, attributable to a similar process.
Volcanosedimentary mineralization of Cu-Zn (Au, Ag).
In Tireo Formation (associated basic volcanics) are different stratiform massive sulphide bodies, small power and tonnage although appreciable longitudinal development. Exceptions, such as those associated with Tireo Formation are generally related to acidic intermediate volcaniclastic rocks. Pyrite and composition are carried forward Cu as the main economic substance, being variable concentrations of Zn, Pb and Ag Au is usually very low. Usually develop a hydrothermal alteration that is basically one of silicification-chloritization.
Cu mineralization Philonian.
In Tireo Formation and Constanza quadrant, there are several demonstrations Philonian with Cu (chalcopyrite) and subordinate Zn, probably linked to shear contexts, although some appear in character extensional fractures. They are usually small in size and limited to hydrothermal alterations develop small and immediate surroundings to Philonian structures.
Mn mineralization.
In Tireo Formation, volcanic rocks and associated basic forms are stratiform Mn (The Guayuyos) responsive to the volcano-sediment model of this type of mineralization.
Disseminated Cu mineralization.
There are several examples in the area of pyrite-chalcopyrite disseminations, possibly related to tectonic weakness zones, corridors or bands delimiting particular orientation, and supported by different types of materials. These may be basic volcanic rocks Tireo Formation or tonalitic intrusive bodies to basic composition, affected by hydrothermal alteration (Pico Duarte, Aniana).
Field Work Planning/Exploration/Soil Geochemistry
a.
Geological Mapping and Sampling
Tireo Formation presents various types of mineralization phases corresponding to posthumous island cooper arc Upper Cretaceous, and are presented as complex sulphide epithermal disseminated, with varying proportions of elements: Au, Ag, Cu, Zn, and Fe these elements are associated to silica and sulfur as end products of magmatic differentiation by chemical affinities.
It was important to select the type of sampling, which performed during regional exploration, where three types of sampling were performed in the area of interest:
- Active Sediments. - Sampling of sediments carried in streams or rivers causes, whose purpose was to determine the volumetric values of metallic minerals, concentrated in the watershed and from the tops of the hills and / or mountains, which circumscribe the basin. The results allowed us to zonify and to determine the origin of the sediments. This sampling were regional and were performed with a geological survey support.
- Sampling of Rock. - Sampling conducted in the lithological units potentially generating and / or mineral-storing metal concentrations and economically feasable, these sampling were performed after a regional geological study, which identified the lithological units that are present in the área of interest.
- Soil Sampling. - This sampling were performed after a detailed geological study of the area, where we have identified the lithological units and structural data (faults and fractures). This sampling was performed in alteration zones that were identified during the study, these alterations are potassic, propylitic, quartz-sericite, argillic and silicification. Any sampling outside these areas is speculative and / or wrong.
b.
Geomorphological analysis
To determine the areas of greatest mine interest, was made a hypsometric map, which highlights the physiographic features of the terrain, it can display the main structures (zone 1), alignments, course changes and most important river sediment sampling.
c.
Sampling Methods
The exploration conducted to date on the Leomary has been conducted according to generally accepted exploration procedures with methods and preparation that are consistent with generally accepted exploration practices. No opinion as to the quality of the samples taken can be presented. No other procedures of quality control were employed.
Soil, rock and sediment samples collected by the geologist were sent to Acme’s sample preparation facility in Maimón where they were oven-dried at 60°C, then sieved to produce 100 grams of pulp at less than -80 meshes. The prepared pulps were then shipped via DHL to the Vancouver lab for analysis. In Vancouver, a 15 gram sample was dissolved in hot aqua regia and analyzed using ACME’s 1F ICP-MS package for gold and base metals.
The assays for the rock samples were as follow - shown in ppb for gold (Au) and ppm for copper (Ag) and zinc (Zn):
No.
UTM_X
UTM_Y
Au
Ag
Cu
Pb
Zn
11843.96
11441.02
5531.12
2.28
2563.07
13749.36
19432.36
662.36
5.38
7774.17
1884.13
777.3
1.81
771.31
2005.31
4712.3
11.29
76.4
3009.25
2041.3
4502.12
3.34
68.1
9974.36
4519.36
3.81
75.1
1401.25
9336.23
7.41
61.4
2001.2
401.23
2352.14
1.67
64.3
1402.65
403.21
9225.46
3.14
76.6
1402.65
403.23
4402.39
5.69
53.7
14751.12
12452.13
4701.23
55.01
39.5
1882.12
1302.47
9102.45
3.11
79.3
15873.26
2491.02
9014.87
2.77
2105.13
401.31
10452.1
3.11
78.4
Converting the above table to grams per metric ton is as follows:
No.
Sample Type
UTM X
UTM Y
Au
Ag
Cu
Sample Weight Kilograms
Rock
11.84
11.4
0.77
Rock
13.75
19.4
0.88
Sediment
7,74
18.4
0.33
Soil
2.0
9.4
0.55
Soil
3.0
2.4
0.36
Soil
9.97
3.0
0.45
Soil
2.0
1.4
0.46
Sediment
2.0
0.4
1.21
Rock
1.4
0.4
0.65
Rock
1.4
0.4
0.54
Rock
14.75
12.4
0.90
Sediment
1.88
1.3
0.79
Soil
15.87
24.9
0.48
Sediment
2.1
0.4
0.32
The above noted table does not include all the samples taken but rather the best results as determined by the geologist. The actual number of samples taken, either soil, sediment or rock, were 99 samples. There was one sample with gold content of 1,695.2 ppb not included in the above schedule but the rest of the samples being 85 have relatively no minerialization.
Conversion from GPT (grams per ton) PPM (parts per million) and PPB (parts per billion):
Percent grade
Grams per ton
PPM
PPB
1.00%
10,000 gpt
10,000 ppm
10,000,000 ppb
0.1%
1,000 gpt
1,000 ppm
1,000,000 ppb
0.01%
100 gpt
100 ppm
100,000 ppb
0.001%
10 gpt
10 ppm
10,000 ppb
0.0001%
1 gpt
1 ppm
1,000 ppb
0.00001%
0.1 gpt
0.1 ppm
100 ppb
The above are stated in grams per metric tons and are converted as follows:
Wet [Mass]
Dry
Grams
Ounces
Grams
Ounces
½
14.3
½
28.3
113.4
430.0
In August 2013, the Company extended its sampling program to identify other areas of mineralization on the Leomary and to re-sample areas previously sampled where mineralization was present.
Recommendation and Conclusion
The recommendations and conclusions set forth in Mr. Martinez report dated September 2012 indicates that the Leomary has favorable geological conditions (lithological and structural for potential development of mineral deposits. The geochemical study conducted in Block C Sysmin Project (1999), Tireo formation, presenting epithermal gold mineralization, volcanosedimentary copper and zinc and copper Philonian. The eastern boundary of the Leomary borders the Bonoa Fault Zone, with development of fracture system perpendicular and parallel to the dominant fault. The stream El Toro corresponds to a structure distension, between Loma Piyoyo, Vincent Liz and El Firm. Also, it marks the change of direction SW-NE structural NS. Sampling tests performed during the active sludge Sysmin Project (1999), yielded four anomalous gold (155, 100, 28, 25 ppb), five values greater than 90 ppm copper and zinc had values greater than 100 ppm and a high value of 241 ppm. Mr. Martinez recommendation is to undertake Phase II in the immediate future.
Phase II Exploration Program
In conducting Phase II of the exploration work on the Leomary will consist of returning to the fourteen sites where rock samples were collected during Phase I with anomalous values for gold and silver. It is proposed to explore an area of 1,500 feet radius around these sites to determine the probable origin of the anomalous float and vein samples. It is proposed to collect a total of 200 additional rock and soil samples of which 150 will be sent for or analysis. It is estimated that this program will take between 17 to 22 days to complete the field work.
In addition to the above Oroplata is going to perform the following exploration activities to evaluate the mineral potential of the Leomary as follows:
1.
Compilation of information and results of previous exploration work, organization and field planning stage.
2.
Regional recognition of the area, geological mapping (scale 1:10,000 to 1:5,000) and rock samples and stream sediment geochemical sampling.
3.
Defining priority areas of interest for detailed exploration.
4.
Detailed geological mapping and geochemical (1:5,000 to 1:1,000 or greater).
5.
Excavation of trenches and pits.
6.
Geophysical Surveying.
7.
Selection of drill targets.
8.
Phase I diamond drilling exploratory.
9.
Model and evaluation of the results of the planning and drilling of the subsequent phase reserve evaluation.
10.
Socio-economic and Environmental based study and reclamation of the areas impacted by exploration activities. These studies start from the very beginning of the exploration program and will continue for the duration of the project.
The estimated budget for undertaking Phase II is as follows;
Compliance with Government Regulations - Essentials of Mining Laws
In the Dominican Republic the laws relating to mineral exploration and development are contained under the “Mining Law of the Dominican Republic - Law No. 146”. The important components of the mining law are as follows:
-
Filing of an application involves two publications in a Dominican newspaper and the annual payment of fees.
-
All mining titles are to be delivered to a Dominican Republic company. Exploration titles may also be delivered to individuals or a foreign company, with certain exceptions (e.g. government employees or their immediate relatives and foreign governments).
-
Resolutions granting mineral title are issued by the Secretaría de Estado de Industria y Comercio (currently Ministry of Industry and Commerce) following a favorable recommendation by the Dirección General de Minería.
-
A company may have exploration and mining titles over a maximum of 30,000 hectares. An exploration title is valid for 3 years and may be followed by two one-year extensions. At the end of the 5-year period, the owner of the title applies for an exploitation permit, or a new round of exploration permitting may be started at the discretion of the mining department.
-
An agreement must be reached with surface rights owners (formal or informal) for each phase of exploration work. If mining is envisioned, land must be bought. A procedure exists in which government mediation is used to resolve disagreements, and this process may ultimately end in expropriation at a fair price.
-
Legal descriptions of exploration and mining concessions are based on polar co-ordinates relative to a surveyed monument. The monument location is defined in UTM co-ordinates, NAD27 datum. The concession boundaries are not marked or surveyed.
The documents and requirements a company would be required to file in order to obtain a license for mining exploration are as follows:
1.
Name, nationality, address, profession, identification number of the applicant or their agent or the holder of a corresponding special power.
2.
Name of the claim or concession.
3.
Location, indicating: province, municipality, section or village.
4.
Description of the starting point that will be necessary within or on the perimeter of the claim, determining the direction and distance of same reference point. These points should be located at a distance of not less than 150 feet, or within 1,500 feet. The point must be visible from one another. The point of reference should be related to three or more visual in direction of topographical characteristic points of the area.
5.
The amount of mining hectares indicating the boundaries and the amount limited by law.
6.
Three or more personal references about the moral, technical and economic capacity of the applicant.
7.
Name of adjoining claims or concessions if any.
8.
Name(s) of (the) owner(s) or occupant(s) of (the) field(s) if any.
9.
The plans and drawings of an exploration area must be submitted at scales form 1:5,000 to 1:20,000, in original.
10.
A copy of the topographic map at 1:5,000 scale, indicating the geological location of the concession area, specifying number, series and corresponding map edition.
11.
Two (2) receipt payments to Internal Revenue Office for ten Dominican Pesos.
We have complied with every one of the requirements listed under the Dominican Mining Law and therefore we are confident that our status regarding the Leomary is in good standing. A review of the web page of the Dominican Mining Ministry at https://dgm.gov.do/estatusexploracionmetalica.html (sub-web site is “Included content - estatus de solicited de exploraction No - Metalica”) will confirm this status. The verification within this website is under the name “Leomary”.
In order to maintain the Leomary in good standing, an annual payments and fees contemplated under the Mining Law are to be paid within a calendar year as are follows:
(i)
Payment of $13,000 paid for the Leomary included this payment.
(ii)
Connection point revision relates to the Company having to have the geologist working on the claim insert four or five concrete posts into the claim boundaries so that satellite is able to read the red tag contained on each post so that it is available to the Ministry of Mines.
(iii)
The fee paid for Project Boundaries revision relates to an inspector going to the Leomary and ensuring the four or five concrete posts have been inserted and that there is no activity on the claim itself which will invade an adjoining claim.
The annual amounts to keep the Leomary in good standing after the initial license is granted is $13,500 which comprises the following:
If the Leomary is not in good standing all rights to the minerals on the claim are forfeited and the Leomary reverts back to the Ministry of Mines. If this happens, a third party can make an application to the Ministry and obtain the mineral rights to the Leomary. Oroplata would therefore have no further interest in the Leomary.
Losing the rights to the minerals on the Leomary does not occur overnight. Nevertheless, if the above filings are not made, the DGM will consider the Leomary no longer in good standing and will accept applications for third parties for the rights to the mineral on the Leomary. This could take up to twelve months from the date the filings are not made.
When we file the annual and semi annual reports, the DGM normally will send out a correction letter addressing any concerns they might have. The Company has to response to this letter of correction within 30 days from the issuance date of the letter and if it has not responded within the deadline date, another letter will be sent out requesting a response within 10 days.
Initially, the mineral rights are granted for explorations for 3 years, an extension of 3 more years can be obtained with a letter of request from the Company. If the Company applies for exploitation, it can obtain a permit for 10 years with extensions for 10 more years or even 20 years. Nevertheless, it will still have to comply with the filing requirements.
It is important for Oroplata at this stage in its development to immediate respond to the letters of corrections or any other letters received from DGM since if this is adhered to these filing requirements the Leomary will always be in good standing.
Environmental Permits
Important components of environmental law in the Dominican Republic are:
-
An environmental permit is not necessary to conduct geological mapping, stream sediment, sampling, line cutting or geophysical surveys.
-
A letter of no objection (Carta de no objección) from the Ministry of Environment is all that is required for trenching and initial drilling, as long as access routes need not be constructed. This letter is based on a brief technical description submitted by the company.
-
Additional drilling and the construction of any access roads warrant an environmental license that is valid for one year. A report must be filed by the company and must include technical and financial aspects that take into account remediation costs.
-
At the feasibility stage, an environmental impact study must be submitted and approved by the government. Such a study could cost as high as $100,000.
In implanting our initial drill program, we will require a letter of no objection from the Ministry of Environment. To date, Oroplata has not received a letter of no objection from the Ministry of Environment. If we elect to implement a more detailed drill program, of which there is no assurance, an environmental study may need to be undertaken prior to such drilling activity. The upper limit to an environmental impact study would be approximately $100,000 but the Ministry of Environment will not require a full detailed environmental study if the drilling program is not extensive in nature; being approximately ten to fifteen drilling holes in the fifty to seventy-five meters range each. The cost of this study is not required until such time as a drilling program is undertaken and then might amount to between $10,000 to $15,000 dollars.
Competition
Oroplate is a exploration stage company which has to compete with other companies searching for minerals in the Dominion Republic and seeking financing for the development of their specific properties. Often, in not in all cases, these other mineral companies are better financed, have properties which have had sufficient exploration work done on them to warrant a future investor to consider investing in their company rather than ours. There is only a limited number of investors willing to invest in a company which had no proven reserves and is just started its exploration work. These other mineral exploration companies might induce investors to consider their properties and not ours. Hence, any additional funds they receive will be directed to the future exploration work on their properties whereas our company might be strap for funds and unable to do any worthwhile exploration work on the Leomary. We might never be able to compete against these other companies and hence never bring the Leomary into a stage where a production decision is to be made. In addition, we will have to compete with both large and small exploration companies for other resources we will need; professional geologists, transportation to and from the Leomary, materials to set up a camp if required and supplies including drill rigs.
Oroplata’s Main Product
Oroplata’s main product will be the sale, if a mineral ore reserve is identified, of gold that can be extracted from the Leomary once the claim has been explored. Since the property has yet to be explored by us, we have yet to find an ore body and therefore cannot sell any ore.
Exploration Facilities
The Company has no plans to construct a mile or smelter on the Leomary until an ore body of reasonable worth is found; which might never happen. While in the exploration stage, the crew of workers will be housed in the town of Bonao due to its close proximity to Leomary. This will initially avoid building any structures either permanent or removable on the claim.
Other Mineral Properties
We has not yet considered any other mineral properties until such time as we have undertaken at least Phases I and II as recommended by Ismael Martinez. We would like to diversify our holdings once we have adequate funds to do so. This may not be for some time due to having to undertake exploration work on Leomary. Similar to Leomary, we will not acquire any mineral claims from our sole officer and director.
Employees
Other than our sole director and officer we do not have any other employees. He devotes approximately 20 hours a month to our operations but will increase the number of hours when Phase II program is started in the late spring of 2014. Being a professional geologist Mr. Sosa will be active in overseeing the exploration work on the Leomary and determining the next stage of exploration work to be undertaken by the Company.
In September 2012 we engaged the services of Ismael Martinez, Professional Geologist, to prepare a geological report on the Leomary detailing the work undertaken as at the date of his report and to recommend a second exploration program. We have used not other consultants relating to the Leomary.
Research and Development Expenditures
Oroplata has not expended any money on research and development since its inception.
Patents and Trademarks
Oroplata does not have any patents or trademarks.
ITEM 3.