ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
Our Portfolio
We operate a portfolio of 12 data centers across eight states, located in some of the top U.S. data center markets plus other high-growth markets. Our data centers are highly specialized, full-service, mission-critical facilities used by our customers to house, power and cool the networking equipment and computer systems that support their most critical business processes.
Operating Properties
The following table presents an overview of the portfolio of operating properties that we own or lease, referred to herein as our operating properties, based on information as of December 31, 2014:
(1)Represents the year a property was acquired or, in the case of a property under lease, the year our initial lease commenced for the property.
(2)With respect to our owned properties, gross square feet represents the entire building area. With respect to leased properties, gross square feet represents that portion of the gross square feet subject to our lease. This includes 181,478 square feet of our office and support space, which is not included in operating NRSF.
(3)Represents the total square feet of a building that is currently leased or available for lease plus developed supporting infrastructure, based on engineering drawings and estimates, but does not include space held for redevelopment or space used for our own office space.
(4)Represents management’s estimate of the portion of NRSF of the facility with available power and cooling capacity that is currently leased or readily available to be leased to customers as data center space based on engineering drawings.
(5)Represents the operating NRSF of the facility other than data center space (typically office and storage space) that is currently leased or available to be leased.
(6)Represents required data center support space, including mechanical, telecommunications and utility rooms, as well as building common areas.
(7)Calculated as data center raised floor that is subject to a signed lease for which billing has commenced (593,610 square feet as of December 31, 2014) divided by leasable raised floor based on the current configuration of the properties (698,232 square feet as of December 31, 2014), expressed as a percentage.
(8)We define annualized rent as MRR multiplied by 12. We calculate MRR as monthly contractual revenue under executed contracts as of a particular date, which includes revenue from our C1, C2 and C3 rental activities and cloud and managed services, but excludes customer recoveries, deferred set up fees and other one-time and variable revenues. MRR does not include the impact from booked-not-billed contracts as of a particular date, unless otherwise specifically noted.
(9)Represents installed utility power and transformation capacity that is available for use by the facility as of December 31, 2014.
*Represents facilities that we lease.
**Subject to long term ground lease
Redevelopment Pipeline
The following table presents an overview of our redevelopment pipeline, based on information as of December 31, 2014.
(1)Reflects NRSF at a facility for which the initiation of substantial activities has begun to prepare the property for its intended use on or before December 31, 2015.
(2)Reflects NRSF at a facility for which the initiation of substantial activities has begun to prepare the property for its intended use after December 31, 2015.
(3)The total cost basis of adjacent land, which is land available for future development, is approximately $10 million. This is included in land on the Combined Consolidated Balance Sheets. The Basis of Design NRSF does not include any build-out on the adjacent land.
The table below sets forth our estimated costs for completion of our major redevelopment projects currently under construction and expected to be operational by December 31, 2015 (dollars in millions):
(1)In addition to projects currently under construction, our near-term redevelopment projects are expected to be delivered in a modular manner, and we currently expect to invest additional capital to complete these near term projects. The ultimate timing and completion of, and the commitment of capital to, our future redevelopment projects are within our discretion and will depend upon a variety of factors, including the actual contracts executed, availability of financing and our estimation of the future market for data center space in each particular market.
(2)Actual costs for NRSF under construction through December 31, 2014. In addition to the $75 million of construction costs incurred through December 31, 2014 for redevelopment expected to be completed by December 31, 2015, as of December 31, 2014 we had incurred $140 million of additional costs (including acquisition costs and other capitalized costs) for other redevelopment projects that are expected to be completed after December 31, 2015.
(3)Represents management’s estimate of the additional costs required to complete the current NRSF under development. There may be an increase in costs if customers’ requirements exceed our current basis of design.
We also own an aggregate of 235.5 acres of additional land adjacent to our Richmond, Atlanta-Metro, Dallas-Fort Worth, Suwanee, Princeton and Chicago data center properties which can support the development of over 2.5 million square feet of raised floor.
Customer Diversification
Our portfolio is currently leased to more than 850 customers comprised of companies of all sizes representing an array of industries, each with unique and varied business models and needs. The following table sets forth information regarding the 10 largest customers in our portfolio based on annualized rent as of December 31, 2014:
(1)Annualized rent is presented for leases commenced as of December 31, 2014. We define annualized rent as MRR multiplied by 12. We calculate MRR as monthly contractual revenue under signed leases as of a particular date, which includes revenue from our C1, C2 and C3 rental and cloud and managed services activities, but excludes customer recoveries, deferred set-up fees, variable related revenues, non-cash revenues and other one-time revenues. MRR does not include the impact from booked-not-billed leases as of a particular date. This amount reflects the annualized cash rental payments. It does not reflect any free rent, rent abatements or future scheduled rent increases and also excludes operating expense and power reimbursements.
(2)Weighted average based on customer’s percentage of total annualized rent expiring and is as of December 31, 2014.
The following chart shows the breakdown of all our customers by industry based on annualized rent as of December 31, 2014:
Lease Distribution by Product Type
(1)Represents all leases in our portfolio for which billing has commenced as of December 31, 2014. Cloud Infrastructure does not include Managed Services for Colocation and Custom Data Center customers. The square footage for each category is the approximate space needed for each product type. However, some C1 customers utilize less than 3,300 square feet and are therefore included in Colocation Cabinets and Cages for purposes of this table.
(2)Represents the square footage of raised floor at a property under lease as specified in the lease and that has commenced billing as of December 31, 2014.
(3)Annualized rent is presented for leases commenced as of December 31, 2014. We define annualized rent as MRR multiplied by 12. We calculate MRR as monthly contractual revenue under signed leases as of a particular date, which includes revenue from our C1, C2 and C3 rental and cloud and managed services activities, but excludes customer recoveries, deferred set-up fees, variable related revenues, non-cash revenues and other one-time revenues. MRR does not include the impact from booked-not-billed leases as of a particular date, unless otherwise specifically noted. This amount reflects the annualized cash rental payments. It does not reflect any free rent, rent abatements or future scheduled rent increases and also excludes operating expense and power reimbursements.
Lease Expirations
The following table sets forth a summary schedule of the lease expirations as of December 31, 2014 at the properties in our portfolio. Unless otherwise stated in the footnotes, the information set forth in the table assumes that customers exercise no renewal options and all early termination rights are exercised:
(1)Represents each agreement with a customer signed as of December 31, 2014 for which billing has commenced; a lease agreement could include multiple spaces and a customer could have multiple leases.
(2)Annualized rent is presented for leases commenced as of December 31, 2014. We define annualized rent as MRR multiplied by 12. We calculate MRR as monthly contractual revenue under signed leases as of a particular date, which includes revenue from our C1, C2 and C3 rental and cloud and managed services activities, but excludes customer recoveries, deferred set-up fees, variable related revenues, non-cash revenues and other one-time revenues. MRR does not include the impact from booked-not-billed leases as of a particular date, unless otherwise specifically noted. This amount reflects the annualized cash rental payments. It does not reflect the accounting associated with any free rent, rent abatements or future scheduled rent increases and also excludes operating expense and power reimbursements.
(3)Consists of customers whose leases expired prior to December 31, 2014 and have continued on a month-to-month basis.
Description of Our Properties
Below is a description of our properties. More detail is provided for the properties that represent more than ten percent of our total assets or accounted for more than ten percent of our aggregate gross revenues or both as of December 31, 2014.
Atlanta-Metro
Our Atlanta, Georgia facility, or Atlanta-Metro, is currently our largest data center based on total operating NRSF. As of December 31, 2014, the property consisted of approximately 969,000 gross square feet with approximately 746,000 total operating NRSF, including approximately 393,000 raised floor operating NRSF. An on-site Georgia Power substation supplies 72 MW of utility power to the facility, which is backed up by diesel generators, and the facility has 120 MW of transformer capacity. The facility also includes a small amount of private “Class A” office space.
As of December 31, 2014, approximately 86% of the facility’s leasable raised floor was leased to 216 customers across our 3Cs product offerings and produced a return on invested capital (which is defined as last quarter annualized NOI divided by real estate assets, net, plus depreciation, less construction in progress, plus net acquired intangibles, net leasing commissions and net other fixed assets) of 17.6%. Certain equipment at this facility is subject to an amortizing equipment loan due June 1, 2020 bearing an interest rate of 6.85%, which had a $16.6 million outstanding balance as of December 31, 2014. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Liquidity and Capital Resources-Indebtedness-Atlanta Metro Equipment Loan.”
Portions of the Atlanta-Metro facility are included in our redevelopment pipeline, as we plan to expand the facility in multiple phases. Our current under construction and near term redevelopment plans call for the addition of approximately 25,000 total operating NRSF, all of which is raised floor. We anticipate that this incremental space will cost approximately $23 million in the aggregate based on current estimates (in addition to costs already incurred as of December 31, 2014). Longer term, we can further expand the facility by another approximately 167,000 total operating NRSF, of which approximately 109,000 NRSF would be raised floor. Upon completion of the build-out of the facility, we anticipate that the facility would contain approximately 938,000 total operating NRSF, including approximately 527,000 NRSF of raised floor.
In addition, this facility is adjacent to six acres of undeveloped land owned by us that we estimate could be developed to provide, at a minimum, an additional approximately 262,000 total operating NRSF, of which approximately 162,000 NRSF would be raised floor. These six acres of undeveloped land are not included in our current development plans.
We are the beneficial owner of our Atlanta-Metro facility through a bond-financed sale-leaseback structure. This structure is necessary in the State of Georgia to receive property tax abatement. In 2006, the Development Authority of Fulton County (“DAFC”) issued a taxable industrial development revenue bond to us with a face amount of $300 million in exchange for legal title to the facility. The acquisition of the bond by us was “cashless” as the bond was issued to us in exchange for title to the facility. The bond matures on December 1, 2019 and bears interest at a rate of 8% per annum. DAFC leased the facility back to us under a bond lease at a rent equal to the debt service on the bond. The bond lease is a triple net lease, which is standard in conduit financing transactions of this type. The rent under the bond lease payable by us, as lessee, is assigned by DAFC to us, as the bondholder. Because the rent and debt service amounts are equal and offsetting, no cash changes hands between DAFC and us. DAFC is the owner and lessor of the facility, but its rights to receive all rental payments and a security interest in the facility have been pledged to us, as the bondholder, as security for the bond. Therefore, we have complete control over the facility at all times. We have an option to buy the facility for $10 when the bond has been retired (the bond matures on December 1, 2019). If we wish to obtain title earlier, we can do so by simply surrendering and cancelling the bond and paying the $10 option price.
Lease Expirations. The following table sets forth a summary schedule of lease expirations for leases in place as of December 31, 2014 at the Atlanta-Metro facility. Unless otherwise stated in the footnotes, the information set forth in the table assumes that customers exercise no renewal options and all early termination rights.
(1)Represents each lease with a customer signed as of December 31, 2014 for which billing has commenced; a lease agreement could include multiple spaces and/or service orders and a customer could have multiple leases.
(2)Annualized rent is presented for leases commenced as of December 31, 2014. We define annualized rent as MRR multiplied by 12. We calculate MRR as monthly contractual revenue under signed leases as of a particular date, which includes revenue from our C1, C2 and C3 rental and cloud and managed services activities, but excludes customer recoveries, deferred set-up fees, variable related revenues, non-cash revenues and other one-time revenues. MRR does not include the impact from booked-not-billed leases as of a particular date, unless otherwise specifically noted. This amount reflects the annualized cash rental payments. It does not reflect any free rent, rent abatements or future scheduled rent increases and also excludes operating expense and power reimbursements.
(3)Consists of customers whose leases expired prior to December 31, 2014 and have continued on a month-to-month basis. We do not typically enter into month-to-month leases.
Primary Customers. The following table summarizes information regarding primary customers, which are customers occupying 10% or more of the leased raised floor of the Atlanta-Metro facility, as of December 31, 2014:
(1)Annualized rent is presented for leases commenced as of December 31, 2014. We define annualized rent as MRR multiplied by 12. We calculate MRR as monthly contractual revenue under signed leases as of a particular date, which includes revenue from our C1, C2 and C3 rental and cloud and managed services activities, but excludes customer recoveries, deferred set-up fees, variable related revenues, non-cash revenues and other one-time revenues. MRR does not include the impact from booked-not-billed leases as of a particular date, unless otherwise specifically noted. This amount reflects the annualized cash rental payments. It does not reflect any free rent, rent abatements or future scheduled rent increases and also excludes operating expense and power reimbursements.
Historical Percentage Leased and Annualized Rental Rates. The following table sets forth the leasable raised floor, percentage leased, annualized rent and annualized rent per leased raised square foot for the Atlanta-Metro facility:
(1)Calculated as data center raised floor that is subject to a signed lease for which billing has commenced as of the applicable date, divided by leasable raised floor based on the then current configuration of the property, expressed as a percentage.
(2)Annualized rent is presented for leases commenced as of the applicable date. We define annualized rent as MRR multiplied by 12. We calculate MRR as monthly contractual revenue under signed leases as of a particular date, which includes revenue from our C1, C2 and C3 rental and cloud and managed services activities, but excludes customer recoveries, deferred set-up fees, variable related revenues, non-cash revenues and other one-time revenues. MRR does not include the impact from booked-not-billed leases as of a particular date, unless otherwise specifically noted. This amount reflects the annualized cash rental payments. It does not reflect any free rent, rent abatements or future scheduled rent increases and also excludes operating expense and power reimbursements.
Atlanta-Suwanee
Our Suwanee, Georgia, or Atlanta-Suwanee, facility consists of approximately 370,000 gross square feet, and as of December 31, 2014 it had approximately 302,000 total operating NRSF, including approximately 185,000 raised floor operating NRSF. Georgia Power supplies 36 MW of utility power to the facility, which is backed up by diesel generators. The facility also contains a small amount of “Class A” private office space and our operating service center, which provides 24x7 support to all of our customers and data centers.
As of December 31, 2014, approximately 78% of the facility’s leasable raised floor was leased to 312 customers and produced a return on invested capital (which is defined as last quarter annualized NOI divided by real estate assets, net, plus depreciation, less construction in progress, plus net acquired intangibles, net leasing commissions and net other fixed assets) of 27.4%.
Portions of the Atlanta-Suwanee facility are included in our redevelopment pipeline. We can further expand the facility by an additional 23,000 NRSF of raised floor. Upon completion of the build-out of the facility, we anticipate that it will contain approximately 325,000 operating NRSF, including approximately 208,000 NRSF of raised floor.
In addition, this facility is adjacent to 15 acres of undeveloped land owned by us that we believe could be developed to provide, at a minimum, an additional approximately 262,000 total operating NRSF, of which approximately would be 162,000 NRSF of raised floor. These 15 acres of undeveloped land are not included in our current development plans.
Lease Expirations. The following table sets forth a summary schedule of the lease expirations for leases in place as of December 31, 2014 at the Atlanta-Suwanee facility. Unless otherwise stated in the footnotes, the information set forth in the table assumes that customers exercise no renewal options and all early termination rights.
(1)Represents each lease with a customer signed as of December 31, 2014 for which billing has commenced; a lease agreement could include multiple spaces and/or service orders and a customer could have multiple leases.
(2)Annualized rent is presented for leases commenced as of December 31, 2014. We define annualized rent as MRR multiplied by 12. We calculate MRR as monthly contractual revenue under signed leases as of a particular date, which includes revenue from our C1, C2 and C3 rental and cloud and managed services activities, but excludes customer recoveries, deferred set-up fees, variable related revenues, non-cash revenues and other one-time revenues. MRR does not include the impact from booked-not-billed leases as of a particular date, unless otherwise specifically noted. This amount reflects the annualized cash rental payments. It does not reflect any free rent, rent abatements or future scheduled rent increases and also excludes operating expense and power reimbursements.
(3)Consists of customers whose leases expired prior to December 31, 2014 and have continued on a month-to-month basis. We do not typically enter into month-to-month leases.
Primary Customers. The following table summarizes information regarding primary customers, which are customers occupying 10% or more of the leased raised floor of the Atlanta-Suwanee facility, as of December 31, 2014:
(1)Annualized rent is presented for leases commenced as of December 31, 2014. We define annualized rent as MRR multiplied by 12. We calculate MRR as monthly contractual revenue under signed leases as of a particular date, which includes revenue from our C1, C2 and C3 rental and cloud and managed services activities, but excludes customer recoveries, deferred set-up fees, variable related revenues, non-cash revenues and other one-time revenues. MRR does not include the impact from booked-not-billed leases as of a particular date, unless otherwise specifically noted. This amount reflects the annualized cash rental payments. It does not reflect any free rent, rent abatements or future scheduled rent increases and also excludes operating expense and power reimbursements.
Historical Percentage Leased and Annualized Rental Rates. The following table sets forth the leasable raised floor, percentage leased, annualized rent and annualized rent per leased raised square foot for the Atlanta-Suwanee facility:
(1)Calculated as data center raised floor that is subject to a signed lease for which billing has commenced as of the applicable date, divided by leasable raised floor based on the then current configuration of the property, expressed as a percentage.
(2)Annualized rent is presented for leases commenced as of the applicable date. We define annualized rent as MRR multiplied by 12. We calculate MRR as monthly contractual revenue under signed leases as of a particular date, which includes revenue from our C1, C2 and C3 rental and cloud and managed services activities, but excludes customer recoveries, deferred set-up fees, variable related revenues, non-cash revenues and other one-time revenues. MRR does not include the impact from booked-not-billed leases as of a particular date, unless otherwise specifically noted. This amount reflects the annualized cash rental payments. It does not reflect any free rent, rent abatements or future scheduled rent increases and also excludes operating expense and power reimbursements.
Richmond
Our Richmond, Virginia data center is situated on an approximately 220-acre site comprised of three large buildings available for data center redevelopment, each with two to three floors, and an administrative building that also has space available for data center redevelopment. As of December 31, 2014, the data center had approximately 1.3 million gross square feet with approximately 236,000 total operating NRSF, including approximately 96,000 of raised floor operating NRSF. Dominion Virginia Power supplies 110 MW of utility power to the facility, which is backed up by diesel generators. As of December 31, 2014, one of these primary buildings was actively in operation as a data center and the other two were being redeveloped. We believe that our Richmond facility is situated in an ideal location due to its proximity to Washington, DC, which offers numerous sources of demand for our products including the federal government, and provides geographical diversification from the Northern Virginia data center market. There are three core segments that we believe represent the most significant opportunity for our Richmond data center: entities associated with the federal government, given the highly secured nature of this facility and its proximity to Washington, DC; regulated industries, such as financial institutions, given our investments in security and regulatory compliance; and large enterprise customers, given the large scale of this facility. Our Richmond mega data center can accommodate large and growing C1 customers, while also accommodating C2 and C3 customers, at attractive energy costs.
We acquired our Richmond facility in 2010 through a bankruptcy process. We estimate that the former owner, a semiconductor manufacturer, had invested over $1 billion to develop the facility prior to the bankruptcy. Because the facility operated as a semiconductor fabrication facility prior to our acquisition, it had significant pre-existing infrastructure, including 110 MW of utility power, approximately 25,000 tons of chiller capacity, “Class A” private office space and other related supporting infrastructure. As a result, to date the incremental cost to redevelop the facility into a data center has been lower than the typical cost of ground-up data center development or redevelopment of other types of buildings into data centers.
As of December 31, 2014, approximately 89% of the facility’s leasable raised floor was leased to 75 customers across our 3Cs product offerings and produced a return on invested capital (which is defined as last quarter annualized NOI divided by real estate assets, net, plus depreciation, less construction in progress, plus net acquired intangibles, net leasing commissions and net other fixed assets) of 12.8%. We are the fee simple owner of the Richmond facility, and the facility is subject to a $120 million secured credit facility, of which $70 million was outstanding as of December 31, 2014. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Liquidity and Capital Resources-Indebtedness-Richmond Secured Credit Facility.”
The Richmond facility is included in our redevelopment pipeline, as we plan to expand the facility in multiple phases. Our current under construction redevelopment plans call for the addition of up to approximately 67,000 total operating NRSF, including approximately 41,000 NRSF of raised floor. We anticipate that this expansion will cost (in addition to costs already incurred as of December 31, 2014) approximately $30 million in the aggregate based on current estimates. Longer term, we can further expand the facility by another approximately 981,000 total operating NRSF, of which approximately 420,000 NRSF would be raised floor. Upon completion of the build-out of the facility, we anticipate that the facility would contain approximately 1.3 million total operating NRSF, including approximately 557,000 NRSF of raised floor.
In addition, we own approximately 100 acres of undeveloped land on the site that we estimate could be developed to provide, at a minimum, an additional approximately 1.8 million total operating NRSF, of which approximately 1.1 million NRSF would be raised floor. These 100 acres of undeveloped land are not included in our current development plans.
Lease Expirations. The following table sets forth a summary schedule of the lease expirations as of December 31, 2014 at the Richmond facility. Unless otherwise stated in the footnotes, the information set forth in the table assumes that customers exercise no renewal options and all early termination rights.
(1)Represents each lease with a customer signed as of December 31, 2014 for which billing has commenced; a lease agreement could include multiple spaces and/or service orders and a customer could have multiple leases.
(2)Annualized rent is presented for leases commenced as of December 31, 2014. We define annualized rent as MRR multiplied by 12. We calculate MRR as monthly contractual revenue under signed leases as of a particular date, which includes revenue from our C1, C2 and C3 rental and cloud and managed services activities, but excludes customer recoveries, deferred set-up fees, variable related revenues, non-cash revenues and other one-time revenues. MRR does not include the impact from booked-not-billed leases as of a particular date, unless otherwise specifically noted. This amount reflects the annualized cash rental payments. It does not reflect any free rent, rent abatements or future scheduled rent increases and also excludes operating expense and power reimbursements.
(3)Consists of customers whose leases expired prior to December 31, 2014 and have continued on a month-to-month basis. We do not typically enter into month-to-month leases.
Primary Customers. The following table summarizes information regarding primary customers, which are customers occupying 10% or more of the leased raised floor of the Richmond facility, as of December 31, 2014:
(1)Annualized rent is presented for leases commenced as of December 31, 2014. We define annualized rent as MRR multiplied by 12. We calculate MRR as monthly contractual revenue under signed leases as of a particular date, which includes revenue from our C1, C2 and C3 rental and cloud and managed services activities, but excludes customer recoveries, deferred set-up fees, variable related revenues, non-cash revenues and other one-time revenues. MRR does not include the impact from booked-not-billed leases as of a particular date, unless otherwise specifically noted. This amount reflects the annualized cash rental payments. It does not reflect any free rent, rent abatements or future scheduled rent increases and also excludes operating expense and power reimbursements.
Historical Percentage Leased and Annualized Rental Rates. The following table sets forth the leasable raised floor square footage percentage leased, annualized rent and annualized rent per leased raised square foot for our Richmond facility since acquisition:
(1)Calculated as data center raised floor that is subject to a signed lease for which billing has commenced as of the applicable date, divided by leasable raised floor based on the then current configuration of the property, expressed as a percentage.
(2)Annualized rent is presented for leases commenced as of the applicable date. We define annualized rent as MRR multiplied by 12. We calculate MRR as monthly contractual revenue under signed leases as of a particular date, which includes revenue from our C1, C2 and C3 rental and cloud and managed services activities, but excludes customer recoveries, deferred set-up fees, variable related revenues, non-cash revenues and other one-time revenues. MRR does not include the impact from booked-not-billed leases as of a particular date, unless otherwise specifically noted. This amount reflects the annualized cash rental payments. It does not reflect any free rent, rent abatements or future scheduled rent increases and also excludes operating expense and power reimbursements.
Santa Clara
Our Santa Clara, California facility was acquired in November 2007. The facility, which is owned subject to a long-term ground sublease as described below, consists of two buildings containing approximately 135,000 gross square feet with approximately 102,000 total operating NRSF, including approximately 55,000 raised floor operating NRSF. The facility is situated on a 6.5-acre site in Silicon Valley. Several Silicon Valley Power substations supply 11 MW of utility power to the facility, which is backed up by diesel generators. We believe that Silicon Valley is an ideal data center location due to the large concentration of technology companies and the high local demand for data centers and cloud and managed services.
As of December 31, 2014, approximately 93% of the facility’s leasable raised floor was leased to 102 customers.
We are not currently redeveloping the Santa Clara facility. Longer term, we can further expand the facility by another approximately 25,000 NRSF of raised floor. Upon completion of the build-out of the facility, we anticipate that the facility would contain approximately 127,000 total operating NRSF, including approximately 80,000 NRSF of raised floor.
The Santa Clara facility is subject to a ground lease. We acquired a ground sublease interest in the land on which the Santa Clara facility is located in November 2007. The ground sublease expires in 2052, subject to two 10-year extension options. The current annual rent payable under the ground sublease is approximately $1.2 million, which increases annually by the lesser of 6% or the increase in the Consumer Price Index for the San Francisco Bay area. In addition, in 2018 and 2038, the monthly rent will be adjusted to equal one-twelfth of an amount equal to 8.5% of the product of (i) the then fair market value of the demised premises (without taking into account the value of the improvements existing on the land) calculated on a per square foot basis, and (ii) the net square footage of the demised premises. During the term of the ground lease, we have certain obligations to facilitate the provision of job training, seminars and research opportunities for students of a community college that is adjacent to the property. We are the indirect holder of this ground sublease.
Lease Expirations. The following table sets forth a summary schedule of the lease expirations for leases in place as of December 31, 2014 at the Santa Clara facility. Unless otherwise stated in the footnotes, the information set forth in the table assumes that customers exercise no renewal options and all early termination rights.
(1)Represents each lease with a customer signed as of December 31, 2014 for which billing has commenced; a lease agreement could include multiple spaces and/or service orders and a customer could have multiple leases.
(2)Annualized rent is presented for leases commenced as of December 31, 2014. We define annualized rent as MRR multiplied by 12. We calculate MRR as monthly contractual revenue under signed leases as of a particular date, which includes revenue from our C1, C2 and C3 rental and cloud and managed services activities, but excludes customer recoveries, deferred set-up fees, variable related revenues, non-cash revenues and other one-time revenues. MRR does not include the impact from booked-not-billed leases as of a particular date, unless otherwise specifically noted. This amount reflects the annualized cash rental payments. It does not reflect any free rent, rent abatements or future scheduled rent increases and also excludes operating expense and power reimbursements.
(3)Consists of customers whose leases expired prior to December 31, 2014 and have continued on a month-to-month basis. We do not typically enter into month-to-month leases.
Primary Customers. The following table summarizes information regarding primary customers, which are customers occupying 10% or more of the leased raised floor of the Santa Clara facility, as of December 31, 2014:
(1)Annualized rent is presented for leases commenced as of December 31, 2014. We define annualized rent as MRR multiplied by 12. We calculate MRR as monthly contractual revenue under signed leases as of a particular date, which includes revenue from our C1, C2 and C3 rental and cloud and managed services activities, but excludes customer recoveries, deferred set-up fees, variable related revenues, non-cash revenues and other one-time revenues. MRR does not include the impact from booked-not-billed leases as of a particular date, unless otherwise specifically noted. This amount reflects the annualized cash rental payments. It does not reflect any free rent, rent abatements or future scheduled rent increases and also excludes operating expense and power reimbursements.
Historical Percentage Leased and Annualized Rental Rates. The following table sets forth the leasable raised floor, percentage leased, annualized rent and annualized rent per leased raised square foot for the Santa Clara facility:
(1)Calculated as data center raised floor that is subject to a signed lease for which billing has commenced as of the applicable date, divided by leasable raised floor based on the then current configuration of the property, expressed as a percentage.
(2)Annualized rent is presented for leases commenced as of the applicable date. We define annualized rent as MRR multiplied by 12. We calculate MRR as monthly contractual revenue under signed leases as of a particular date, which includes revenue from our C1, C2 and C3 rental and cloud and managed services activities, but excludes customer recoveries, deferred set-up fees, variable related revenues, non-cash revenues and other one-time revenues. MRR does not include the impact from booked-not-billed leases as of a particular date, unless otherwise specifically noted. This amount reflects the annualized cash rental payments. It does not reflect any free rent, rent abatements or future scheduled rent increases and also excludes operating expense and power reimbursements.
Dallas-Fort Worth
We purchased our Dallas-Fort Worth facility in February 2013. Prior to our purchase, the facility was operated as a semiconductor fabrication facility. Similar to our Richmond facility, the Dallas-Fort Worth facility has significant pre-existing infrastructure. Specifically, the Dallas-Fort Worth facility has diverse feeds of 140 MW of utility power and approximately 698,000 gross square feet on 39 acres. We are the fee simple owner of the Dallas-Fort Worth facility.
We acquired our Dallas-Fort Worth facility because we believe that we will be able to execute a redevelopment strategy similar to our Richmond facility. Given the infrastructure that is already in place due to its former use as a semiconductor fabrication facility, we believe that the incremental costs to redevelop data center raised floor space in this facility will be lower compared to typical costs for ground-up development or redevelopments of other building types. In addition, the access to a significant amount of utility power provides the necessary power capacity to support our growth strategy for our Dallas-Fort Worth data center. Furthermore, we believe that the Dallas market is an important data center market primarily due to its strong business environment and relatively affordable power costs.
The Dallas-Fort Worth facility is included in our redevelopment pipeline, as we plan to convert the facility into an operating data center in multiple phases. The first phase was completed in July 2014, when the 26,000 raised floor NRSF that had been under construction was placed into service. This space is fully leased. We can further expand the facility by another approximately 609,000 total NRSF, of which approximately 279,000 NRSF would be raised floor. Upon completion of the build-out of the facility, we anticipate that the facility would contain approximately 669,000 total operating NRSF, including approximately 308,000 NRSF of raised floor.
We own sufficient undeveloped land on the site, approximately 15 acres, that we believe could also be developed to provide an additional 262,000 total operating NRSF, of which approximately 162,000 NRSF would be raised floor. These 15 acres of undeveloped land are not included in our current development plans.
As of December 31, 2014, approximately 99% of the facility’s leasable raised floor was leased to 7 customers.
Lease Expirations. The following table sets forth a summary schedule of the lease expirations for leases in place as of December 31, 2014 at the Dallas-Fort Worth facility. Unless otherwise stated in the footnotes, the information set forth in the table assumes that customers exercise no renewal options and all early termination rights.
(1)Represents each lease with a customer signed as of December 31, 2014 for which billing has commenced; a lease agreement could include multiple spaces and/or service orders and a customer could have multiple leases.
(2)Annualized rent is presented for leases commenced as of December 31, 2014. We define annualized rent as MRR multiplied by 12. We calculate MRR as monthly contractual revenue under signed leases as of a particular date, which includes revenue from our C1, C2 and C3 rental and cloud and managed services activities, but excludes customer recoveries, deferred set-up fees, variable related revenues, non-cash revenues and other one-time revenues. MRR does not include the impact from booked-not-billed leases as of a particular date, unless otherwise specifically noted. This amount reflects the annualized cash rental payments. It does not reflect any free rent, rent abatements or future scheduled rent increases and also excludes operating expense and power reimbursements.
(3)Consists of customers whose leases expired prior to December 31, 2014 and have continued on a month-to-month basis. We do not typically enter into month-to-month leases.
Primary Customers. The following table summarizes information regarding primary customers, which are customers occupying 10% or more of the leased raised floor of the Dallas-Fort Worth facility, as of December 31, 2014:
(1)Annualized rent is presented for leases commenced as of December 31, 2014. We define annualized rent as MRR multiplied by 12. We calculate MRR as monthly contractual revenue under signed leases as of a particular date, which includes revenue from our C1, C2 and C3 rental and cloud and managed services activities, but excludes customer recoveries, deferred set-up fees, variable related revenues, non-cash revenues and other one-time revenues. MRR does not include the impact from booked-not-billed leases as of a particular date, unless otherwise specifically noted. This amount reflects the annualized cash rental payments. It does not reflect any free rent, rent abatements or future scheduled rent increases and also excludes operating expense and power reimbursements.
Historical Percentage Leased and Annualized Rental Rates. The following table sets forth the leasable raised floor, percentage leased, annualized rent and annualized rent per leased raised square foot for the Dallas-Fort Worth facility:
(1)Calculated as data center raised floor that is subject to a signed lease for which billing has commenced as of the applicable date, divided by leasable raised floor based on the then current configuration of the property, expressed as a percentage.
(2)Annualized rent is presented for leases commenced as of the applicable date. We define annualized rent as MRR multiplied by 12. We calculate MRR as monthly contractual revenue under signed leases as of a particular date, which includes revenue from our C1, C2 and C3 rental and cloud and managed services activities, but excludes customer recoveries, deferred set-up fees, variable related revenues, non-cash revenues and other one-time revenues. MRR does not include the impact from booked-not-billed leases as of a particular date, unless otherwise specifically noted. This amount reflects the annualized cash rental payments. It does not reflect any free rent, rent abatements or future scheduled rent increases and also excludes operating expense and power reimbursements.
Sacramento
Our Sacramento, California facility, which we acquired in December 2012, is located 120 miles from our Santa Clara facility on a 6.8-acre site. The facility currently consists of approximately 93,000 gross square feet with approximately 81,000 total operating NRSF, including approximately 55,000 raised floor operating NRSF. The Sacramento Municipal Utility District supplies 8 MW of utility power to the facility, which is backed up by diesel generators. The facility is an institutional grade data center with a classic “N+1” design that provides a single extra uninterruptible power supply module for use in the event of a system failure. This facility will provide our regional customer base with business continuity services along with Cloud and Managed Services. We believe the property’s location is a valuable complement to our Santa Clara facility for our customers, as it will allow them to diversify their footprint in the California market with a single provider. We intend to leverage our existing West Coast regional team and our Cloud and Managed Services sales and support staff to cater to customers in this property, many of which already used managed services when we acquired the property.
Portions of this facility are included in our development pipeline as we plan to expand the facility in two phases. Longer term, we can further expand the facility by another approximately 3,300 NRSF of raised floor. Upon completion of the build-out of the facility, we anticipate that it will contain approximately 85,000 total operating NRSF including approximately 58,000 NRSF of raised floor.
As of December 31, 2014, approximately 52% of the facility’s leasable raised floor was leased to 163 customers. The majority of the customers at this facility are C2 or C3 customers which lease small amounts of space. We are the fee simple owner of the Sacramento facility.
Miami
Our Miami, Florida facility currently consists of approximately 30,000 gross square feet with approximately 26,000 total operating NRSF, including 20,000 raised floor operating NRSF. The property sits on a 1.6-acre site located at Dolphin Center with 4 MW of utility power supplied by Florida Power & Light and backed up by diesel generators. With a wind rating of 185 miles-per-hour, the facility is built to withstand a Category 5 hurricane. Miami is a strategic location for us because it is a gateway to the South American financial markets and a transcontinental Internet hub. The Miami facility was under development when we acquired it in April 2008, and we completed the build-out in August 2008. Other than normally recurring capital expenditures, we have no current plans to further build-out or expand the Miami facility.
As of December 31, 2014, approximately 67% of the facility’s leasable raised floor was leased to 85 customers. We intend to continue to lease-up this property. We are the fee simple owner of the Miami facility.
Jersey City
Our Jersey City, New Jersey facility is a leased facility that consists of approximately 122,000 gross square feet with approximately 88,000 total operating NRSF, including approximately 32,000 raised floor operating NRSF. The Jersey City facility was originally leased by another party in March 2004 and we acquired the lease in October 2006 when we acquired the lessee. The lease expires in September 2026 and is subject to one five-year extension option. The facility was redeveloped in November 2006, and we subsequently leased it to service customers in New Jersey and New York. The facility is comprised of four floors of a 19 story building located on one city block in the metropolitan New York City area, six miles from Manhattan. PSE&G supplies 7 MW of utility power to the facility, which is backed up by diesel generators. The facility also contains a small amount of “Class A” office space. We believe that the location in Jersey City provides us with a crucial presence in the tri-state area, where space is highly coveted given the strong demand from financial services firms.
As of December 31, 2014, approximately 95% of the facility’s leasable raised floor was leased to 60 customers.
Princeton
Our Princeton, New Jersey facility, which we acquired on June 30, 2014, is located on approximately 194 acres and consists of approximately 560,000 gross square feet, including approximately 58,000 square feet of raised floor, and 12 MW of gross power. Concurrently with acquiring this data center we entered into a 10 year lease for the facility’s 58,000 square feet of raised floor with Atos, an international information technology services company headquartered in Bezos, France. The lease includes a 15 year renewal at the option of Atos.
The Princeton facility is included in our redevelopment pipeline. We can further expand the facility by another approximately 372,000 total NRSF, of which approximately 100,000 NRSF would be raised floor. Upon completion of the build-out of the facility, we anticipate that the facility would contain approximately 554,000 total operating NRSF, including approximately 158,000 NRSF of raised floor.
Chicago
Our Chicago facility, which we acquired on July 8, 2014, is the former Sun Times Press facility in downtown Chicago, Illinois. The facility consists of approximately 317,000 gross square feet with capacity for approximately 133,000 raised floor operating NRSF and 24 MW of gross power capacity, with 8 MW of available utility power currently available and another 47 MW available upon request.
The Chicago facility is included in our redevelopment pipeline, as we plan to convert the facility into an operating data center in multiple phases. We intend to increase its size to approximately 400,000 gross square feet with raised floor capacity of approximately 215,000 square feet and 37 MW of power.
Wichita
Our Wichita, Kansas facility consists of approximately 14,000 gross square feet with approximately 14,000 total operating NRSF, including approximately 2,600 raised floor operating NRSF. Western Energy supplies 1 MW of utility power to the facility, which is backed up by a diesel generator. We believe that this data center and our Overland Park data center complement our portfolio by providing regional coverage in the Midwest. We acquired the facility in 2005, and it was redeveloped in 2008. Other than normally recurring capital expenditures, we have no current plans to further build-out or expand the Wichita facility.
During 2014, our primary tenant left this facility. Thus, as of December 31, 2014, 5% of the facility’s leasable raised floor was leased.
Overland Park
The Overland Park, Kansas facility, known as the J. Williams Technology Center, is a leased facility consisting of approximately 33,000 gross square feet, with approximately 8,000 total operating NRSF, including approximately 2,500 raised floor operating NRSF. The property is located in the Kansas City, Missouri metropolitan area. Kansas City Power & Light supplies approximately 1 MW of utility power, which is backed up by a diesel generator. The J. Williams Technology Center has housed the corporate headquarters of the Quality Group of Companies, LLC. (“QGC”) since September 2003. We lease the facility under a lease with an entity controlled by our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, which was entered into in January 2009 and expires in December 2018 with one remaining five-year renewal term. Other than normally recurring capital expenditures and expansion of our own office space at our headquarters, we have no current plans to further build-out or expand the raised floor at our Overland Park data center.
As of December 31, 2014, approximately 89% of the facility’s leasable raised floor was leased to 21 customers.
Lenexa
Our Lenexa, Kansas property is an approximately 35,000 gross square foot facility located in the Kansas City, Missouri metropolitan area. The property was acquired in 2004. The Lenexa property does not currently operate as a data center, nor do we intend to operate it as a data center. We have historically used this property primarily as a warehouse, and have recently leased approximately 22,000 square feet to a tenant for retail use, and 12,205 square feet to a tenant as general office and warehouse space. Other than minimal normally recurring capital expenditures, we have no current plans to further build-out or expand the Lenexa property.
ITEM 3.