ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
Our Portfolio
We operate a portfolio of 10 data centers across seven states, located in some of the top U.S. data center markets plus other high-growth markets. Our data centers are highly specialized, full-service, mission-critical facilities used by our customers to house, power and cool the networking equipment and computer systems that support their most critical business processes.
Operating Properties
The following table presents an overview of the portfolio of operating properties that we own or lease, referred to herein as our operating properties, based on information as of December 31, 2013:
(1) Represents the year a property was acquired or, in the case of a property under lease, the year our initial lease commenced for the property.
(2) With respect to our owned properties, gross square feet represents the entire building area. With respect to leased properties, gross square feet represents that portion of the gross square feet subject to our lease. This includes 171,755 square feet of QTS office and support space, which is not included in operating NRSF.
(3) Represents the total square feet of a building that is currently leased or available for lease plus developed supporting infrastructure, based on engineering drawings and estimates, but does not include space held for redevelopment or space used for our own office space.
(4) Represents management’s estimate of the portion of NRSF of the facility with available power and cooling capacity that is currently leased or readily available to be leased to customers as data center space based on engineering drawings.
(5) Represents the operating NRSF of the facility other than data center space (typically office and storage space) that is currently leased or available to be leased.
(6) Represents required data center support space, including mechanical, telecommunications and utility rooms, as well as building common areas.
(7) Calculated as data center raised floor that is subject to a signed lease for which billing has commenced as of December 31, 2013 divided by leasable raised floor based on the current configuration of the properties (485,546 square feet as of December 31, 2013), expressed as a percentage.
(8) Annualized rent is presented for leases commenced as of December 31, 2013. The Company defines annualized rent as MRR multiplied by 12. We calculate MRR as monthly contractual revenue under executed contracts as of a particular date, which includes revenue from our C1, C2 and C3 rental activities and cloud and managed services, but excludes customer recoveries, deferred set up fees and other one-time and variable revenues. MRR does not include the impact from booked not billed contracts as of a particular date, unless otherwise specifically noted.
(9) Represents installed utility power and transformation capacity that is available for use by the facility as of December 31, 2013.
* Represents facilities that we lease.
** Subject to long term ground lease.
NOTE: Excludes our facility at Lenexa, Kansas, which is not an operating data center.
Redevelopment Pipeline
The following table presents an overview of our redevelopment pipeline, based on information as of December 31, 2013.
(1) Reflects NRSF at a facility for which the initiation of substantial activities to prepare the property for its intended use is available on or before December 31, 2014.
(2) Reflects NRSF at a facility for which the initiation of substantial activities to prepare the property for its intended use is available after December 31, 2014.
The table below sets forth our estimated costs for completion of our major redevelopment projects currently under construction and expected to be operational by December 31, 2014 (dollars in millions):
(1) Actual costs for NRSF under construction through December 31, 2013. In addition to the $85 million of construction costs incurred through December 31, 2013 for redevelopment expected to be completed by December 31, 2014, as of December 31, 2013 we had incurred $62 million of additional costs (including acquisition costs and other capitalized costs) for other redevelopment projects that are expected to be completed after December 31, 2014.
(2) Represents management’s estimate of the additional costs required to complete the current NRSF under development. There may be an increase in costs if customers’ requirements exceed our current basis of design.
In addition to projects currently under construction, our near term redevelopment projects are expected to be delivered in a modular manner, and we currently expect to invest additional capital to complete these near term projects. The ultimate timing and completion of, and the commitment of capital to, our future redevelopment projects is within our discretion and will depend upon a variety of factors, including the availability of financing and our estimation of the future market for data center space in each particular market.
We also own an aggregate of 136 acres of additional land adjacent to data center properties which can support the development of over 1.6 million square feet of raised floor.
Customer Diversification
Our portfolio is currently leased to more than 880 customers comprised of companies of all sizes representing an array of industries, each with unique and varied business models and needs. The following table sets forth information regarding the 10 largest customers in our portfolio based on annualized rent as of December 31, 2013:
(1) Annualized rent is presented for leases commenced as of December 31, 2013. We define annualized rent as MRR multiplied by 12. We calculate MRR as monthly contractual revenue under signed leases as of a particular date, which includes revenue from our C1, C2 and C3 rental and cloud and managed services activities, but excludes customer recoveries, deferred set-up fees, variable related revenues, non-cash revenues and other one-time revenues. MRR does not include the impact from booked-not-billed leases as of a particular date. This amount reflects the annualized cash rental payments. It does not reflect any free rent, rent abatements or future scheduled rent increases and also excludes operating expense and power reimbursements.
(2) Weighted average based on customer’s percentage of total annualized rent expiring and is as of December 31, 2013.
(3) This customer is deployed across two QTS data centers. We are currently negotiating a lease renewal with this customer.
The following chart shows the breakdown of all our customers by industry based on annualized rent as of December 31, 2013:
Lease Distribution by Product Type
(1) Represents all leases in our portfolio for which billing has commenced as of December 31, 2013. Cloud Infrastructure does not include Managed Services for Colocation and Custom Data Center customers. The square footage for each category is the approximate space needed for each product type. However, some C1 customers utilize less than 3,300 square feet and are therefore included in Colocation Cabinets and Cages for purposes of this table.
(2) Represents the square footage of raised floor at a property under lease as specified in the lease and that has commenced billing as of December 31, 2013.
(3) Annualized rent is presented for leases commenced as of December 31, 2013. We define annualized rent as MRR multiplied by 12. We calculate MRR as monthly contractual revenue under signed leases as of a particular date, which includes revenue from our C1, C2 and C3 rental and cloud and managed services activities, but excludes customer recoveries, deferred set-up fees, variable related revenues, non-cash revenues and other one-time revenues. MRR does not include the impact from booked-not-billed leases as of a particular date, unless otherwise specifically noted. This amount reflects the annualized cash rental payments. It does not reflect any free rent, rent abatements or future scheduled rent increases and also excludes operating expense and power reimbursements.
Lease Expirations
The following table sets forth a summary schedule of the lease expirations as of December 31, 2013 at the properties in our portfolio. Unless otherwise stated in the footnotes, the information set forth in the table assumes that customers exercise no renewal options and all early termination rights are exercised:
(1) Does not include data for leases expiring in a particular year when leases for the same space have already been signed with replacement customers with future commencement dates. In those cases, the data is included in the year in which the future lease expires.
(2) Represents each agreement with a customer signed as of December 31, 2013 for which billing has commenced; a lease agreement could include multiple spaces and a customer could have multiple leases.
(3) Annualized rent is presented for leases commenced as of December 31, 2013. We define annualized rent as MRR multiplied by 12. We calculate MRR as monthly contractual revenue under signed leases as of a particular date, which includes revenue from our C1, C2 and C3 rental and cloud and managed services activities, but excludes customer recoveries, deferred set-up fees, variable related revenues, non-cash revenues and other one-time revenues. MRR does not include the impact from booked-not-billed leases as of a particular date, unless otherwise specifically noted. This amount reflects the annualized cash rental payments. It does not reflect the accounting associated with any free rent, rent abatements or future scheduled rent increases and also excludes operating expense and power reimbursements.
(4) Consists of customers whose leases expired prior to December 31, 2013 and have continued on a month-to-month basis.
Description of Our Properties
The properties detailed below represent more than ten percent of our total assets or accounted for more than ten percent of our aggregate gross revenues or both as of December 31, 2013.
Atlanta-Metro
Our Atlanta, Georgia facility, or Atlanta-Metro, is currently our largest data center based on total operating NRSF. As of December 31, 2013, the property consisted of approximately 969,000 gross square feet with approximately 629,000 total operating NRSF, including approximately 292,000 raised floor operating NRSF. An on-site Georgia Power substation supplies 72 MW of utility power to the facility, which is backed up by diesel generators, and the facility has 120 MW of transformer capacity. The facility also includes a small amount of private “Class A” office space.
As of December 31, 2013, approximately 100% of the facility’s leasable raised floor was leased to 206 customers across our 3Cs product offerings. Certain equipment at this facility is subject to an amortizing equipment loan due June 1, 2020 bearing an interest rate of 6.85%, which had an $18.8 million outstanding balance as of December 31, 2013. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Liquidity and Capital Resources-Indebtedness-Atlanta Metro Equipment Loan.”
Portions of the Atlanta-Metro facility are included in our redevelopment pipeline, as we plan to expand the facility in multiple phases. Our current under construction and near term redevelopment plans call for the addition of approximately 106,000 total operating NRSF, including approximately 101,000 NRSF of raised floor. We anticipate that this expansion will cost approximately $32 million in the aggregate based on current estimates (in addition to costs already incurred as of December 31, 2013). Longer term, we can further expand the facility by another approximately 198,000 total operating NRSF, of which approximately 134,000 NRSF would be raised floor. Upon completion of the build-out of the facility, we anticipate that the facility would contain approximately 925,000 total operating NRSF, including approximately 527,000 NRSF of raised floor.
In addition, this facility is adjacent to six acres of undeveloped land owned by us that we estimate could be developed to provide, at a minimum, an additional approximately 262,000 total operating NRSF, of which approximately 162,000 NRSF would be raised floor. These six acres of undeveloped land are not included in our current development plans.
We are the beneficial owner of our Atlanta facility through a bond-financed sale-leaseback structure. This structure is necessary in the State of Georgia to receive property tax abatement. In 2006, the Development Authority of Fulton County, or DAFC, issued a taxable industrial development revenue bond to us in exchange for legal title to the facility. The acquisition of the bond by us was “cashless” as the bond was issued to us in exchange for title to the facility. DAFC leased the facility back to us under a bond lease at a rent equal to the debt service on the bond. The bond lease is a triple net lease, which is standard in conduit financing transactions of this type. The rent under the bond lease payable by us, as lessee, is assigned by DAFC to us, as the bondholder. Because the rent and debt service amounts are equal and offsetting, no cash changes hands between DAFC and us. DAFC is the owner and lessor of the facility, but its rights to receive all rental payments and a security interest in the facility have been pledged to us, as the bondholder, as security for the bond. Therefore, we have complete control over the facility at all times. We have an option to buy the facility for $10 when the bond has been retired (the bond matures on December 1, 2019). If we wish to obtain title earlier, we can do so by simply surrendering and cancelling the bond and paying the $10 option price.
Lease Expirations. The following table sets forth a summary schedule of lease expirations for leases in place as of December 31, 2013 at the Atlanta-Metro facility. Unless otherwise stated in the footnotes, the information set forth in the table assumes that customers exercise no renewal options and all early termination rights.
(1) Does not include data for leases expiring in a particular year when leases for the same space have already been signed with replacement customers with future commencement dates. In those cases, the data is included in the year in which the future lease expires.
(2) Represents each lease with a customer signed as of December 31, 2013 for which billing has commenced; a lease agreement could include multiple spaces and/or service orders and a customer could have multiple leases.
(3) Annualized rent is presented for leases commenced as of December 31, 2013. We define annualized rent as MRR multiplied by 12. We calculate MRR as monthly contractual revenue under signed leases as of a particular date, which includes revenue from our C1, C2 and C3 rental and cloud and managed services activities, but excludes customer recoveries, deferred set-up fees, variable related revenues, non-cash revenues and other one-time revenues. MRR does not include the impact from booked-not-billed leases as of a particular date, unless otherwise specifically noted. This amount reflects the annualized cash rental payments. It does not reflect any free rent, rent abatements or future scheduled rent increases and also excludes operating expense and power reimbursements.
(4) Consists of customers whose leases expired prior to December 31, 2013 and have continued on a month-to-month basis. We do not typically enter into month-to-month leases.
Primary Customers. The following table summarizes information regarding primary customers, which are customers occupying 10% or more of the leased raised floor of the Atlanta-Metro facility, as of December 31, 2013:
(1) Annualized rent is presented for leases commenced as of December 31, 2013. We define annualized rent as MRR multiplied by 12. We calculate MRR as monthly contractual revenue under signed leases as of a particular date, which includes revenue from our C1, C2 and C3 rental and cloud and managed services activities, but excludes customer recoveries, deferred set-up fees, variable related revenues, non-cash revenues and other one-time revenues. MRR does not include the impact from booked-not-billed leases as of a particular date, unless otherwise specifically noted. This amount reflects the annualized cash rental payments. It does not reflect any free rent, rent abatements or future scheduled rent increases and also excludes operating expense and power reimbursements.
Historical Percentage Leased and Annualized Rental Rates. The following table sets forth the leasable raised floor, percentage leased, annualized rent and annualized rent per leased raised square foot for the Atlanta-Metro facility:
(1) Calculated as data center raised floor that is subject to a signed lease for which billing has commenced as of the applicable date, divided by leasable raised floor based on the then current configuration of the property, expressed as a percentage.
(2) Annualized rent is presented for leases commenced as of the applicable date. We define annualized rent as MRR multiplied by 12. We calculate MRR as monthly contractual revenue under signed leases as of a particular date, which includes revenue from our C1, C2 and C3 rental and cloud and managed services activities, but excludes customer recoveries, deferred set-up fees, variable related revenues, non-cash revenues and other one-time revenues. MRR does not include the impact from booked-not-billed leases as
of a particular date, unless otherwise specifically noted. This amount reflects the annualized cash rental payments. It does not reflect any free rent, rent abatements or future scheduled rent increases and also excludes operating expense and power reimbursements.
Atlanta-Suwanee
Our Suwanee, Georgia, or Atlanta-Suwanee, facility consists of approximately 367,000 gross square feet, and as of December 31, 2013 it had approximately 261,000 total operating NRSF, including approximately 155,000 raised floor operating NRSF. Georgia Power supplies 36 MW of utility power to the facility, which is backed up by diesel generators. The facility also contains a small amount of “Class A” private office space and our operating service center, which provides 24x7 support to all of our customers and data centers.
As of December 31, 2013, approximately 87% of the facility’s leasable raised floor was leased to 289 customers.
Portions of the Atlanta-Suwanee facility are included in our redevelopment pipeline. Our current under construction redevelopment plans call for the addition of approximately 30,000 total operating NRSF, all of which will be raised floor. We anticipate that the current reconfigurations and expansions described above will cost an additional $2 million to complete. Longer term, we can further expand the facility by an additional 29,000 NRSF of raised floor. Upon completion of the build-out of the facility, we anticipate that it will contain approximately 320,000 operating NRSF, including approximately 214,000 NRSF of raised floor.
In addition, this facility is adjacent to 15 acres of undeveloped land owned by us that we believe could be developed to provide, at a minimum, an additional approximately 262,000 total operating NRSF, of which approximately would be 162,000 NRSF of raised floor. These 15 acres of undeveloped land are not included in our current development plans.
Lease Expirations. The following table sets forth a summary schedule of the lease expirations for leases in place as of December 31, 2013 at the Atlanta-Suwanee facility. Unless otherwise stated in the footnotes, the information set forth in the table assumes that customers exercise no renewal options and all early termination rights.
(1) Does not include data for leases expiring in a particular year when leases for the same space have already been signed with replacement customers with future commencement dates. In those cases, the data is included in the year in which the future lease expires.
(2) Represents each lease with a customer signed as of December 31, 2013 for which billing has commenced; a lease agreement could include multiple spaces and/or service orders and a customer could have multiple leases.
(3) Annualized rent is presented for leases commenced as of December 31, 2013. We define annualized rent as MRR multiplied by 12. We calculate MRR as monthly contractual revenue under signed leases as of a particular date, which includes revenue from our C1, C2 and C3 rental and cloud and managed services activities, but excludes customer recoveries, deferred set-up fees, variable related revenues, non-cash revenues and other one-time revenues. MRR does not include the impact from booked-not-billed leases as of a particular date, unless otherwise specifically noted. This amount reflects the annualized cash rental payments. It does not reflect any free rent, rent abatements or future scheduled rent increases and also excludes operating expense and power reimbursements.
(4) Consists of customers whose leases expired prior to December 31, 2013 and have continued on a month-to-month basis. We do not typically enter into month-to-month leases.
Primary Customers. The following table summarizes information regarding primary customers, which are customers occupying 10% or more of the leased raised floor of the Atlanta-Suwanee facility, as of December 31, 2013:
(1) Annualized rent is presented for leases commenced as of December 31, 2013. We define annualized rent as MRR multiplied by 12. We calculate MRR as monthly contractual revenue under signed leases as of a particular date, which includes revenue from our C1, C2 and C3 rental and cloud and managed services activities, but excludes customer recoveries, deferred set-up fees, variable related revenues, non-cash revenues and other one-time revenues. MRR does not include the impact from booked-not-billed leases as of a particular date, unless otherwise specifically noted. This amount reflects the annualized cash rental payments. It does not reflect any free rent, rent abatements or future scheduled rent increases and also excludes operating expense and power reimbursements.
Historical Percentage Leased and Annualized Rental Rates. The following table sets forth the leasable raised floor, percentage leased, annualized rent and annualized rent per leased raised square foot for the Atlanta-Suwanee facility:
(1) Calculated as data center raised floor that is subject to a signed lease for which billing has commenced as of the applicable date, divided by leasable raised floor based on the then current configuration of the property, expressed as a percentage.
(2) Annualized rent is presented for leases commenced as of the applicable date. We define annualized rent as MRR multiplied by 12. We calculate MRR as monthly contractual revenue under signed leases as of a particular date, which includes revenue from our C1, C2 and C3 rental and cloud and managed services activities, but excludes customer recoveries, deferred set-up fees, variable related revenues, non-cash revenues and other one-time revenues. MRR does not include the impact from booked-not-billed leases as of a particular date, unless otherwise specifically noted. This amount reflects the annualized cash rental payments. It does not reflect any free rent, rent abatements or future scheduled rent increases and also excludes operating expense and power reimbursements.
Richmond
Our Richmond, Virginia data center is situated on an approximately 220-acre site comprised of three large buildings available for data center redevelopment, each with two floors, and an administrative building that also has space available for data center redevelopment. As of December 31, 2013, the data center had approximately 1.3 million gross square feet with approximately 225,000 total operating NRSF, including approximately 85,000 of raised floor operating NRSF. Dominion Virginia Power supplies 110 MW of utility power to the facility, which is backed up by diesel generators. As of December 31, 2013, one of these primary buildings was actively in operation as a data center and the other two were being redeveloped. We believe that our Richmond facility is situated in an ideal location due to its proximity to Washington, DC, which offers numerous sources of demand for our products including the federal government, and provides geographical diversification from the Northern Virginia data center market. There are three core segments that we believe represent the most significant opportunity for our Richmond data center: entities associated with the federal government, given the highly secured nature of this facility and its proximity to Washington, DC; regulated industries, such as financial institutions, given our investments in security and regulatory compliance; and large enterprise customers, given the large scale of this facility. Our Richmond mega data center can accommodate large and growing C1 customers, while also accommodating C2 and C3 customers, at attractive energy costs.
We acquired our Richmond facility in 2010 through a bankruptcy process. We estimate that the former owner, a semiconductor manufacturer, had invested over $1 billion to develop the facility prior to the bankruptcy. Because the facility operated as a semiconductor fabrication facility prior to our acquisition, it had significant pre-existing infrastructure, including 110 MW of utility power, approximately 25,000 tons of chiller capacity, “Class A” private office space and other related supporting infrastructure. As a result, to date the incremental cost to redevelop the facility into a data center has been lower than the typical cost of ground-up data center development or redevelopment of other types of buildings into data centers.
As of December 31, 2013, approximately 80% of the facility’s leasable raised floor was leased to 51 customers across our 3Cs product offerings. We are the fee simple owner of the Richmond facility, and the facility is subject to a $100 million secured credit facility, of which $70 million was outstanding as of December 31, 2013. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Liquidity and Capital Resources-Indebtedness-Richmond Secured Credit Facility.”
The Richmond facility is included in our redevelopment pipeline, as we plan to expand the facility in multiple phases. Our current under construction redevelopment plans call for the addition of up to approximately 71,000 total operating NRSF, including approximately 22,000 NRSF of raised floor. We anticipate that this expansion will cost (in addition to costs already incurred as of December 31, 2013) approximately $3 million in the aggregate based on current estimates. Longer term, we can further expand the facility by another approximately 989,000 total operating NRSF, of which approximately 450,000 NRSF would be raised floor. Upon completion of the build-out of the facility, we anticipate that the facility would contain approximately 1.3 million total operating NRSF, including approximately 555,000 NRSF of raised floor.
In addition, we own approximately 100 acres of undeveloped land on the site that we estimate could be developed to provide, at a minimum, an additional approximately 1.8 million total operating NRSF, of which approximately 1.1 million NRSF would be raised floor. These 100 acres of undeveloped land are not included in our current development plans.
Lease Expirations. The following table sets forth a summary schedule of the lease expirations as of December 31, 2013 at the Richmond facility. Unless otherwise stated in the footnotes, the information set forth in the table assumes that customers exercise no renewal options and all early termination rights.
(1) Does not include data for leases expiring in a particular year when leases for the same space have already been signed with replacement customers with future commencement dates. In those cases, the data is included in the year in which the future lease expires.
(2) Represents each lease with a customer signed as of December 31, 2013 for which billing has commenced; a lease agreement could include multiple spaces and/or service orders and a customer could have multiple leases.
(3) Annualized rent is presented for leases commenced as of December 31, 2013. We define annualized rent as MRR multiplied by 12. We calculate MRR as monthly contractual revenue under signed leases as of a particular date, which includes revenue from our C1, C2 and C3 rental and cloud and managed services activities, but excludes customer recoveries, deferred set-up fees, variable related revenues, non-cash revenues and other one-time revenues. MRR does not include the impact from booked-not-billed leases as of a particular date, unless otherwise specifically noted. This amount reflects the annualized cash rental payments. It does not reflect any free rent, rent abatements or future scheduled rent increases and also excludes operating expense and power reimbursements.
(4) Consists of customers whose leases expired prior to December 31, 2013 and have continued on a month-to-month basis. We do not typically enter into month-to-month leases.
Primary Customers. The following table summarizes information regarding primary customers, which are customers occupying 10% or more of the leased raised floor of the Richmond facility, as of December 31, 2013:
(1) Annualized rent is presented for leases commenced as of December 31, 2013. We define annualized rent as MRR multiplied by 12. We calculate MRR as monthly contractual revenue under signed leases as of a particular date, which includes revenue from our C1, C2 and C3 rental and cloud and managed services activities, but excludes customer recoveries, deferred set-up fees, variable related revenues, non-cash
revenues and other one-time revenues. MRR does not include the impact from booked-not-billed leases as of a particular date, unless otherwise specifically noted. This amount reflects the annualized cash rental payments. It does not reflect any free rent, rent abatements or future scheduled rent increases and also excludes operating expense and power reimbursements.
Historical Percentage Leased and Annualized Rental Rates. The following table sets forth the leasable raised floor square footage percentage leased, annualized rent and annualized rent per leased raised square foot for our Richmond facility since acquisition:
(1) Calculated as data center raised floor that is subject to a signed lease for which billing has commenced as of the applicable date, divided by leasable raised floor based on the then current configuration of the property, expressed as a percentage.
(2) Annualized rent is presented for leases commenced as of the applicable date. We define annualized rent as MRR multiplied by 12. We calculate MRR as monthly contractual revenue under signed leases as of a particular date, which includes revenue from our C1, C2 and C3 rental and cloud and managed services activities, but excludes customer recoveries, deferred set-up fees, variable related revenues, non-cash revenues and other one-time revenues. MRR does not include the impact from booked-not-billed leases as of a particular date, unless otherwise specifically noted. This amount reflects the annualized cash rental payments. It does not reflect any free rent, rent abatements or future scheduled rent increases and also excludes operating expense and power reimbursements.
Santa Clara
Our Santa Clara, California facility was acquired in November 2007. The facility, which is owned subject to a long-term ground sublease as described below, consists of two buildings containing approximately 135,000 gross square feet with approximately 102,000 total operating NRSF, including approximately 55,000 raised floor operating NRSF. The facility is situated on a 6.5-acre site in Silicon Valley. Several Silicon Valley Power substations supply 11 MW of utility power to the facility, which is backed up by diesel generators. We believe that Silicon Valley is an ideal data center location due to the large concentration of technology companies and the high local demand for data centers and cloud and managed services.
As of December 31, 2013, approximately 90% of the facility’s leasable raised floor was leased to 98 customers.
We are not currently redeveloping the Santa Clara facility. Longer term, we can further expand the facility by another approximately 25,000 NRSF of raised floor. Upon completion of the build-out of the facility, we anticipate that the facility would contain approximately 127,000 total operating NRSF, including approximately 81,000 NRSF of raised floor.
The Santa Clara facility is subject to a ground lease. We acquired a ground sublease interest in the land on which the Santa Clara facility is located in November 2007. The ground sublease expires in 2052, subject to two 10-year extension options. The current annual rent payable under the ground sublease is approximately $1.1 million, which increases annually by the lesser of 6% or the increase in the Consumer Price Index for the San Francisco Bay area. In addition, in 2018 and 2038, the monthly rent will be adjusted to equal one-twelfth of an amount equal to 8.5% of the product of (i) the then fair market value of the demised premises (without taking
into account the value of the improvements existing on the land) calculated on a per square foot basis, and (ii) the net square footage of the demised premises. During the term of the ground lease, we have certain obligations to facilitate the provision of job training, seminars and research opportunities for students of a community college that is adjacent to the property. We are the indirect holder of this ground sublease.
Lease Expirations. The following table sets forth a summary schedule of the lease expirations for leases in place as of December 31, 2013 at the Santa Clara facility. Unless otherwise stated in the footnotes, the information set forth in the table assumes that customers exercise no renewal options and all early termination rights.
(1) Does not include data for leases expiring in a particular year when leases for the same space have already been signed with replacement customers with future commencement dates. In those cases, the data is included in the year in which the future lease expires.
(2) Represents each lease with a customer signed as of December 31, 2013 for which billing has commenced; a lease agreement could include multiple spaces and/or service orders and a customer could have multiple leases.
(3) Annualized rent is presented for leases commenced as of December 31, 2013. We define annualized rent as MRR multiplied by 12. We calculate MRR as monthly contractual revenue under signed leases as of a particular date, which includes revenue from our C1, C2 and C3 rental and cloud and managed services activities, but excludes customer recoveries, deferred set-up fees, variable related revenues, non-cash revenues and other one-time revenues. MRR does not include the impact from booked-not-billed leases as of a particular date, unless otherwise specifically noted. This amount reflects the annualized cash rental payments. It does not reflect any free rent, rent abatements or future scheduled rent increases and also excludes operating expense and power reimbursements.
(4) Consists of customers whose leases expired prior to December 31, 2013 and have continued on a month-to-month basis. We do not typically enter into month-to-month leases.
Primary Customers. The following table summarizes information regarding primary customers, which are customers occupying 10% or more of the leased raised floor of the Santa Clara facility, as of December 31, 2013:
(1) Annualized rent is presented for leases commenced as of December 31, 2013. We define annualized rent as MRR multiplied by 12. We calculate MRR as monthly contractual revenue under signed leases as of a particular date, which includes revenue from our C1, C2 and C3 rental and cloud and managed services activities, but excludes customer recoveries, deferred set-up fees, variable related revenues, non-cash revenues and other one-time revenues. MRR does not include the impact from booked-not-billed leases as of a particular date, unless otherwise specifically noted. This amount reflects the annualized cash rental payments. It does not reflect any free rent, rent abatements or future scheduled rent increases and also excludes operating expense and power reimbursements.
Historical Percentage Leased and Annualized Rental Rates. The following table sets forth the leasable raised floor, percentage leased, annualized rent and annualized rent per leased raised square foot for the Santa Clara facility:
(1) Calculated as data center raised floor that is subject to a signed lease for which billing has commenced as of the applicable date, divided by leasable raised floor based on the then current configuration of the property, expressed as a percentage.
(2) Annualized rent is presented for leases commenced as of the applicable date. We define annualized rent as MRR multiplied by 12. We calculate MRR as monthly contractual revenue under signed leases as of a particular date, which includes revenue from our C1, C2 and C3 rental and cloud and managed services activities, but excludes customer recoveries, deferred set-up fees, variable related revenues, non-cash revenues and other one-time revenues. MRR does not include the impact from booked-not-billed leases as of a particular date, unless otherwise specifically noted. This amount reflects the annualized cash rental payments. It does not reflect any free rent, rent abatements or future scheduled rent increases and also excludes operating expense and power reimbursements.
Sacramento
Our Sacramento, California facility, which we acquired in December 2012, is located 120 miles from our Santa Clara facility on a 6.8-acre site. The facility currently consists of approximately 93,000 gross square feet with approximately 76,000 total operating NRSF, including approximately 46,000 raised floor operating NRSF. The Sacramento Municipal Utility District supplies 8 MW of utility power to the facility, which is backed up by diesel generators. The facility is an institutional grade data center with a classic “N+1” design that provides a single extra uninterruptible power supply module for use in the event of a system failure. This facility will provide our regional customer base with business continuity services along with Cloud and Managed Services. We believe the property’s location is a valuable complement to our Santa Clara facility for our customers, as it will allow them to diversify their footprint in the California market with a single provider. We intend to leverage
our existing West Coast regional team and our Cloud and Managed Services sales and support staff to cater to customers in this property, many of which already used managed services when we acquired the property.
Portions of this facility are included in our development pipeline as we plan to expand the facility in two phases. We are currently redeveloping approximately 9,000 square feet of raised floor in the facility. We anticipate that completing this expansion will cost an additional approximately $4 million based on current estimates. Longer term, we can further expand the facility by another approximately 1,700 NRSF of raised floor. Upon completion of the build-out of the facility, we anticipate that it will contain approximately 86,000 total operating NRSF including approximately 55,000 NRSF of raised floor.
As of December 31, 2013, approximately 91% of the facility’s leasable raised floor was leased to 178 customers. The majority of the customers at this facility are C2 or C3 customers which lease small amounts of space. We are the fee simple owner of the Sacramento facility.
Dallas
We purchased our Dallas, Texas facility in February 2013. Prior to our purchase, the facility was operated as a semiconductor fabrication facility. Similar to our Richmond facility, the Dallas facility has significant pre-existing infrastructure. Specifically, the Dallas facility has diverse feeds of 140 MW of utility power and approximately 698,000 gross square feet on 39 acres. We are the fee simple owner of the Dallas facility.
We acquired our Dallas facility because we believe that we will be able to execute a redevelopment strategy similar to our Richmond facility. Given the infrastructure that is already in place due to its former use as a semiconductor fabrication facility, we believe that the incremental costs to redevelop data center raised floor space in this facility will be lower compared to typical costs for ground-up development or redevelopments of other building types. In addition, the access to a significant amount of utility power provides the necessary power capacity to support our growth strategy for our Dallas data center. Furthermore, we believe that the Dallas market is an important data center market primarily due to its strong business environment and relatively affordable power costs.
The Dallas facility is included in our redevelopment pipeline, as we plan to convert the facility into an operating data center in multiple phases. Our current redevelopment plans call for the redevelopment of up to approximately 79,000 total operating NRSF, including approximately 26,000 NRSF of raised floor. We anticipate that this redevelopment will cost approximately $56 million based on current estimates, and we expect to begin lease-up of the facility in the third quarter of 2014. Longer term, we can further expand the facility by another approximately 619,000 total NRSF, of which approximately 266,000 NRSF would be raised floor. Upon completion of the build-out of the facility, we anticipate that the facility would contain approximately 698,000 total operating NRSF, including approximately 292,000 NRSF of raised floor.
We own sufficient undeveloped land on the site, approximately 15 acres, that we believe could also be developed to provide an additional 262,000 total operating NRSF, of which approximately 162,000 NRSF would be raised floor. These 15 acres of undeveloped land are not included in our current development plans.
Miami
Our Miami, Florida facility currently consists of approximately 30,000 gross square feet with approximately 26,000 total operating NRSF, including 20,000 raised floor operating NRSF. The property sits on a 1.6-acre site located at Dolphin Center with 4 MW of utility power supplied by Florida Power & Light and backed up by diesel generators. With a wind rating of 185 miles-per-hour, the facility is built to withstand a Category 5 hurricane. Miami is a strategic location for us because it is a gateway to the South American financial markets and a transcontinental Internet hub. The Miami facility was under development when we acquired it in April 2008, and we completed the build-out in August 2008. Other than normally recurring capital expenditures, we have no current plans to further build-out or expand the Miami facility.
As of December 31, 2013, approximately 56% of the facility’s leasable raised floor was leased to 66 customers. The current customers of the facility include only C2 customers which lease small amounts of space, and we intend to continue to lease-up this property, including space recently vacated by a C1 customer. We are the fee simple owner of the Miami facility.
Jersey City
Our Jersey City, New Jersey facility is a leased facility that consists of approximately 122,000 gross square feet with approximately 87,000 total operating NRSF, including approximately 32,000 raised floor operating NRSF. The Jersey City facility was originally leased by another party in March 2004 and we acquired the lease in October 2006 when we acquired the lessee. The lease expires in September 2026 and is subject to one five-year extension option. The facility was redeveloped in November 2006, and we subsequently leased it to service customers in New Jersey and New York. The facility is comprised of four floors of a 19 story building located on one city block in the metropolitan New York City area, six miles from Manhattan. PSE&G supplies 7 MW of utility power to the facility, which is backed up by diesel generators. The facility also contains a small amount of “Class A” office space. We believe that the location in Jersey City provides us with a crucial presence in the tri-state area, where space is highly coveted given the strong demand from financial services firms.
As of December 31, 2013, approximately 76% of the facility’s leasable raised floor was leased to 69 customers.
Wichita
Our Wichita, Kansas facility consists of approximately 14,000 gross square feet with approximately 14,000 total operating NRSF, including approximately 2,600 raised floor operating NRSF. Western Energy supplies 1 MW of utility power to the facility, which is backed up by a diesel generator. We believe that this data center and our Overland Park data center complement our portfolio by providing regional coverage in the Midwest. We acquired the facility in 2005, and it was redeveloped in 2008. Other than normally recurring capital expenditures, we have no current plans to further build-out or expand the Wichita facility.
As of December 31, 2013, 100% of the facility’s leasable raised floor was leased.
Overland Park
The Overland Park, Kansas facility, known as the J. Williams Technology Center, is a leased facility consisting of approximately 33,000 gross square feet, with approximately 8,000 total operating NRSF, including approximately 2,500 raised floor operating NRSF. The property is located in the Kansas City, Missouri metropolitan area. Kansas City Power & Light supplies approximately 1 MW of utility power, which is backed up by a diesel generator. The J. Williams Technology Center has housed the corporate headquarters of the Quality Group of Companies, LLC. (“QGC”) since September 2003. We lease the facility under a lease with an entity controlled by our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, which was entered into in January 2009 and expires in December 2018 with one remaining five-year renewal term. Other than normally recurring capital expenditures and expansion of our own office space at our headquarters, we have no current plans to further build-out or expand the raised floor at our Overland Park data center.
As of December 31, 2013, approximately 71% of the facility’s leasable raised floor was leased to 22 customers.
Lenexa
Our Lenexa, Kansas property is an approximately 35,000 gross square foot facility located in the Kansas City, Missouri metropolitan area. The property was acquired in 2004. The Lenexa property does not currently operate as a data center, nor do we intend to operate it as a data center. We use this property primarily as a warehouse. Other than normally recurring capital expenditures, we have no current plans to further build-out or expand the Lenexa property.
ITEM 3.