ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
Our Portfolio
We operate a portfolio of 28 data center properties located throughout the United States, Canada and Europe. Within the U.S., we are located in some of the top U.S. data center markets and other high-growth markets. Our data centers are highly specialized, full-service, mission-critical facilities used by our customers to house, power and cool the networking equipment and computer systems that support their most critical business processes.
Operating Properties
The following table presents an overview of the portfolio of operating properties that we own or lease, referred to herein as our operating properties, based on information as of December 31, 2020. The table excludes data center development associated with available land we own that is not being actively developed. On February 22, 2019, the Company entered into an agreement whereby it contributed a data center in Manassas, Virginia to a 50% owned unconsolidated entity. Balances in the following table represent the unconsolidated entity at its 100% share. QTS’s pro rata share of the unconsolidated entity is 50%.
(1)Represents the total square feet of a building that is currently leased or available for lease plus developed supporting infrastructure, based on engineering drawings and estimates, but does not include space held for redevelopment or space used for our own office space.
(2)With respect to acquisitions, represents the year a property was acquired. With respect to properties under lease, represents the year our initial lease commenced for the property. With respect to new data center construction, represents the year the facility was opened or expected to be opened.
(3)With respect to our owned properties, gross square feet represents the entire building area. With respect to leased properties, gross square feet represents that portion of the gross square feet subject to our lease. Gross square feet includes 424,246 square feet of our office and support space, which is not included in operating NRSF.
(4)Represents management’s estimate of the portion of NRSF of the facility with available power and cooling capacity that is currently leased or readily available to be leased to customers as data center space based on engineering drawings.
(5)Represents the operating NRSF of the facility other than data center space (typically office and storage space) that is currently leased or available to be leased.
(6)Represents required data center support space, including mechanical, telecommunications and utility rooms, as well as building common areas.
(7)Calculated as data center raised floor that is subject to a signed lease for which billing has commenced divided by leasable raised floor based on the current configuration of the properties, expressed as a percentage.
(8)We define annualized rent as MRR multiplied by 12. We calculate MRR as monthly contractual revenue under executed contracts as of a particular date, which includes revenue from our rental and managed services activities, but excludes customer recoveries, deferred set-up fees, variable related revenues, non-cash revenues and other one-time revenues. MRR does not include the impact from booked-not-billed contracts (as defined below) as of a particular date, unless otherwise specifically noted, nor does it reflect the accounting associated with any free rent, rent abatements or future scheduled rent increases.
(9)Represents installed utility power and transformation capacity that is available for use by the facility as of December 31, 2020.
(10)This property was formerly known as “Ashburn, VA” but has been renamed “Ashburn, VA (DC-1)” to distinguish between the existing data center and the new property development shown as “Ashburn, VA (DC-2)” within the New Property Development section.
(11)Consists of two data centers located in Eemshaven, Netherlands and Groningen, Netherlands.
(12)Subject to long-term ground lease.
(13)Consists of one data center in Dulles, Virginia. The Dulles campus previously consisted of two data center buildings, however as of December 31, 2020, the Company had relocated customers from the smaller and older facility to the new facility in order to optimize its operating cost structure.
(14)Includes 7 facilities. All facilities are leased, including one subject to a finance lease.
(15)Consists of Miami, FL; Lenexa, KS; and Overland Park, KS facilities.
(16)Represents the development of a new data center building at our Ashburn, VA campus.
(17)Represents the development of a new data center building at our Manassas, VA campus. The Manassas, VA (DC - 2) data center is 100% owned and consolidated by QTS and is separate from the Manassas, VA (DC-1) data center that is owned by the unconsolidated entity.
(18)Represents our unconsolidated entity at 100% share. Our equity ownership of the unconsolidated entity is 50%.
Development Pipeline
The following table presents an overview of our development pipeline, based on information as of December 31, 2020.
(1)Reflects NRSF at a facility for which the initiation of substantial activities has begun to prepare the property for its intended use on or before December 31, 2021.
(2)Reflects NRSF at a facility for which the initiation of substantial activities has begun to prepare the property for its intended use after December 31, 2021.
(3)The total cost basis of available land, which is land available for future development, is approximately $253.0 million, of which approximately $214.6 million is included in Construction in Progress on the consolidated balance sheet. The Basis of Design NRSF does not include any build-out on the available land.
(4)This property was formerly known as “Ashburn, VA” but has been renamed “Ashburn, VA (DC-1)” to distinguish between the existing data center and the new property development shown as “Ashburn, VA (DC-2)” within the new property development section.
(5)Consists of two data centers located in Eemshaven, Netherlands and Groningen, Netherlands.
(6)Includes 7 facilities. All facilities are leased, including one subject to a finance lease.
(7)Consists of Miami, FL; Lenexa, KS; and Overland Park, KS facilities as well as land holdings in Texas.
(8)Represents the development of a new data center building at our Ashburn, VA campus.
(9)Represents the development of a new data center building at our Manassas, VA campus. The Manassas, VA (DC - 2) data center is 100% owned and consolidated by QTS and is separate from the Manassas, VA (DC-1) data center owned by the unconsolidated entity.
(10)Represents our unconsolidated entity at 100% share. Our equity ownership of the unconsolidated entity is 50%.
The table below sets forth our estimated costs for completion of our major development projects currently under construction and expected to be operational by December 31, 2021 (dollars in millions):
(1)In addition to projects currently under construction, our near-term development projects are expected to be delivered in a modular manner, and we currently expect to invest additional capital to complete these near term projects. The ultimate timing and completion of, and the commitment of capital to, our future development projects are within our discretion and will depend upon a variety of factors, including the actual contracts executed, availability of financing and our estimation of the future market for data center space in each particular market.
(2)Represents actual costs under construction through December 31, 2020. In addition to the $212 million of construction costs incurred through December 31, 2020 for development expected to be completed by December 31, 2021, as of December 31, 2020 we had incurred $817 million of additional costs (including acquisition costs and other capitalized costs) for other development projects that are expected to be completed after December 31, 2021.
(3)Represents management’s estimate of the additional costs required to complete the current NRSF under development. There may be an increase in costs if customers’ requirements exceed our current basis of design.
(4)This property was formerly known as “Ashburn, VA” but has been renamed “Ashburn, VA (DC-1)” to distinguish between the existing data center and the new property development labeled “Ashburn, VA (DC - 2)” within the new property development section.
(5)Represents the development of a new data center building in our Ashburn, VA market.
(6)Represents the development of a new data center building at our Manassas, VA campus. The Manassas, VA (DC - 2) data center is 100% owned and consolidated by QTS and is separate from the Manassas, VA (DC-1) data center owned by the unconsolidated entity.
(7)Represents our unconsolidated entity at 100% share. Our equity ownership of the unconsolidated entity is 50%.
We also own an aggregate of approximately 785 acres of additional available land at certain of our data center properties which can support the development of approximately 16.4 million additional square feet of raised floor.
Customer Diversification
Our portfolio is currently leased to more than 1,200 customers comprised of companies of all sizes representing an array of industries, each with unique and varied business models and needs. The following table sets forth information regarding the 10 largest customers in our portfolio based on annualized rent as of December 31, 2020:
(1)Annualized rent is presented for leases commenced as of December 31, 2020. We define annualized rent as MRR multiplied by 12. We calculate MRR as monthly contractual revenue under signed leases as of a particular date, which includes revenue from our rental and managed services activities, but excludes customer recoveries, deferred set-up fees, variable related revenues, non-cash revenues and other one-time revenues. MRR does not include the impact from booked-not-billed leases (which represent customer leases that have been executed but for which lease payments have not commenced) as of a particular date unless otherwise specifically noted. This amount reflects the annualized cash rental payments. It does not reflect any accounting associated with any free rent, rent abatements or future scheduled rent increases and also excludes operating expense and power reimbursements.
(2)Weighted average based on customer’s percentage of total annualized rent expiring as of December 31, 2020.
The following chart shows the breakdown of all our customers by industry based on annualized rent as of December 31, 2020:
Lease Distribution by Product Type
(1)Represents all leases in our portfolio for which billing has commenced as of December 31, 2020.
(2)Represents the square footage of raised floor at a property under lease as specified in the lease and that has commenced billing as of December 31, 2020.
(3)Annualized rent is presented for leases commenced as of December 31, 2020. We define annualized rent as MRR multiplied by 12. We calculate MRR as monthly contractual revenue under signed leases as of a particular date, which includes revenue from our rental and managed services activities, but excludes customer recoveries, deferred set-up fees, variable related revenues, non-cash revenues and other one-time revenues. MRR does not include the impact from booked-not-billed leases as of a particular date, unless otherwise specifically noted. This amount reflects the annualized cash rental payments. It does not reflect any accounting associated with any free rent, rent abatements or future scheduled rent increases and also excludes operating expense and power reimbursements.
Lease Expirations
The following table sets forth a summary schedule of the lease expirations as of December 31, 2020 at the properties in our portfolio, excluding leases that have been booked but not billed. Unless otherwise stated in the footnotes, the information set forth in the table assumes that customers exercise no renewal options and all early termination rights are exercised:
(1)Represents each agreement with a customer signed as of December 31, 2020 for which billing has commenced; a lease agreement could include multiple spaces and a customer could have multiple leases.
(2)Annualized rent is presented for leases commenced as of December 31, 2020. We define annualized rent as MRR multiplied by 12. We calculate MRR as monthly contractual revenue under signed leases as of a particular date, which includes revenue from our rental and managed services activities, but excludes customer recoveries, deferred set-up fees, variable related revenues, non-cash revenues and other one-time revenues. MRR does not include the impact from booked-not-billed leases as of a particular date, unless otherwise specifically noted. This amount reflects the annualized cash rental payments. It does not reflect any accounting associated with any free rent, rent abatements or future scheduled rent increases and also excludes operating expense and power reimbursements.
(3)Consists of annualized rent associated with customer leases whose original contract terms ended on December 31, 2020 and have signed a renewal or are eligible for renewal, as well as customers whose leases expired prior to December 31, 2020 and have continued on a month-to-month basis. We do not typically enter into month-to-month leases.
Description of Our Properties
Below is a description of our properties. More detail is provided for the properties that represent more than ten percent of our total assets or accounted for more than ten percent of our aggregate gross revenues or both as of and for the year ended December 31, 2020.
Atlanta, Georgia Campus
Our Atlanta (DC-1) facility, formerly known as Atlanta-Metro, is currently our largest data center based on total operating NRSF. As of December 31, 2020, the property consisted of approximately 969,000 gross square feet with approximately 929,000 total operating NRSF, including approximately 527,000 raised floor operating NRSF. An on-site Georgia Power substation supplies 72 MW of utility power to the facility, which is backed up by diesel generators, and the facility has 120
MW of transformer capacity. The facility also includes a small amount of private “Class A” office space. As of December 31, 2020, the facility was approximately 98% occupied by 239 customers across our product offerings.
Portions of the Atlanta (DC-1) facility are included in our development pipeline, as we plan to continue to expand the facility in multiple phases. During the year ended December 31, 2020, we placed approximately 49,000 NRSF of raised floor into service. Upon completion of the build-out of the facility, we anticipate that the facility would contain approximately 929,000 total operating NRSF, including approximately 527,000 NRSF of raised floor.
We are the owner of our Atlanta (DC-1) facility. We were previously the owner of the facility through a bond-financed sale-leaseback structure. The structure was necessary in the State of Georgia to receive property tax abatement. In 2006, the Development Authority of Fulton County (“DAFC”) issued a taxable industrial development revenue bond to us with a face amount of $300 million in exchange for legal title to the facility. The acquisition of the bond by us was “cashless” as the bond was issued to us in exchange for title to the facility. The bond matured on December 1, 2019, at which time we exercised our option to purchase the facility for $10.
In October 2018, we completed the acquisition of approximately 55 acres of land in Atlanta, Georgia adjacent to our existing Atlanta (DC-1) data center. In addition, this facility is adjacent to approximately 72 acres of undeveloped land, inclusive of the land purchase in October 2018, owned by us that we estimate could be developed to provide, at a minimum, approximately 2.5 million additional NRSF of raised floor. Additionally, during the fourth quarter of 2019, the Company sold certain land improvements near its Atlanta (DC-1) facility and entered into an underlying ground lease and services agreement with the buyer.
During the year ended December 31, 2020, we completed the first phase of construction of a second megascale data center Atlanta (DC-2) on our land adjacent to the existing Atlanta (DC-1) facility. During the year ended December 31, 2020, we opened the facility and placed approximately 56,000 NRSF of raised floor into service. The Atlanta (DC-2) facility is included within our development pipeline, as we plan to develop additional phases of the facility. Upon completion of the build out of the facility, we anticipate that the facility would contain approximately 495,000 gross square feet and 240,000 raised floor NRSF. We anticipate that this phase of development will cost (in addition to the $63 million already incurred as of December 31, 2020) approximately $93 million in the aggregate based on current estimates.
Lease Expirations. The following table sets forth a summary schedule of lease expirations for leases in place as of December 31, 2020 at the Atlanta, Georgia campus (inclusive of DC-1 and DC-2). Unless otherwise stated in the footnotes, the information set forth in the table assumes that customers exercise no renewal options and all early termination rights.
(1)Represents each lease with a customer signed as of December 31, 2020 for which billing has commenced; a lease agreement could include multiple spaces and/or service orders and a customer could have multiple leases.
(2)Annualized rent is presented for leases commenced as of December 31, 2020. We define annualized rent as MRR multiplied by 12. We calculate MRR as monthly contractual revenue under signed leases as of a particular date, which includes revenue from our rental and managed services activities, but
excludes customer recoveries, deferred set-up fees, variable related revenues, non-cash revenues and other one-time revenues. MRR does not include the impact from booked-not-billed leases as of a particular date, unless otherwise specifically noted. This amount reflects the annualized cash rental payments. It does not reflect any accounting associated with any free rent, rent abatements or future scheduled rent increases and also excludes operating expense and power reimbursements.
(3)Consists of annualized rent associated with customer leases whose original contract terms ended on December 31, 2020 and have signed a renewal or are eligible for renewal, as well as customers whose leases expired prior to December 31, 2020 and have continued on a month-to-month basis. We do not typically enter into month-to-month leases.
Primary Customers. The following table summarizes information regarding primary customers, which are customers occupying 10% or more of the leased raised floor of the Atlanta, Georgia campus (inclusive of DC-1 and DC-2), as of December 31, 2020:
(1)Weighted average based on customer’s percentage of total annualized rent expiring as of December 31, 2020.
(2)Annualized rent is presented for leases commenced as of December 31, 2020. We define annualized rent as MRR multiplied by 12. We calculate MRR as monthly contractual revenue under signed leases as of a particular date, which includes revenue from our rental and managed services activities, but excludes customer recoveries, deferred set-up fees, variable related revenues, non-cash revenues and other one-time revenues. MRR does not include the impact from booked-not-billed leases as of a particular date, unless otherwise specifically noted. This amount reflects the annualized cash rental payments. It does not reflect any accounting associated with any free rent, rent abatements or future scheduled rent increases and also excludes operating expense and power reimbursements.
Historical Percentage Leased and Annualized Rental Rates. The following table sets forth the leasable raised floor, percentage leased, annualized rent and annualized rent per leased raised square foot for the Atlanta, Georgia campus (inclusive of DC-1 and DC-2):
(1)Calculated as data center raised floor that is subject to a signed lease for which billing has commenced as of the applicable date, divided by leasable raised floor based on the then current configuration of the property, expressed as a percentage.
(2)Annualized rent is presented for leases commenced as of the applicable date. We define annualized rent as MRR multiplied by 12. We calculate MRR as monthly contractual revenue under signed leases as of a particular date, which includes revenue from our rental and managed services activities, but excludes customer recoveries, deferred set-up fees, variable related revenues, non-cash revenues and other one-time revenues. MRR does not include the impact from booked-not-billed leases as of a particular date, unless otherwise specifically noted. This amount reflects the annualized cash rental payments. It does not reflect any accounting associated with any free rent, rent abatements or future scheduled rent increases and also excludes operating expense and power reimbursements.
Atlanta-Suwanee
Our Suwanee, Georgia, or Atlanta-Suwanee, facility consists of approximately 370,000 gross square feet, and as of December 31, 2020 it had approximately 329,000 total operating NRSF, including approximately 213,000 raised floor operating NRSF. Georgia Power supplies 36 MW of utility power to the facility, which is backed up by diesel generators. The facility also contains a small amount of “Class A” private office space and our operating service center, which provides 24x7 support to all of our customers and data centers. As of December 31, 2020, the facility was approximately 89% occupied by 303 customers. We are the fee simple owner of the Atlanta-Suwanee facility.
We are not currently redeveloping significant portions of the Atlanta-Suwanee facility.
The facility is adjacent to 15 acres of undeveloped land owned by us that we believe could be developed to provide, at a minimum, an additional approximately 310,000 total operating NRSF, including approximately 210,000 NRSF of raised floor. These 15 acres of undeveloped land are not included in our current development plans.
Lease Expirations. The following table sets forth a summary schedule of the lease expirations for leases in place as of December 31, 2020 at the Atlanta-Suwanee facility. Unless otherwise stated in the footnotes, the information set forth in the table assumes that customers exercise no renewal options and all early termination rights.
(1)Represents each lease with a customer signed as of December 31, 2020 for which billing has commenced; a lease agreement could include multiple spaces and/or service orders and a customer could have multiple leases.
(2)Annualized rent is presented for leases commenced as of December 31, 2020. We define annualized rent as MRR multiplied by 12. We calculate MRR as monthly contractual revenue under signed leases as of a particular date, which includes revenue from our rental and managed services activities, but excludes customer recoveries, deferred set-up fees, variable related revenues, non-cash revenues and other one-time revenues. MRR does not include the impact from booked-not-billed leases as of a particular date, unless otherwise specifically noted. This amount reflects the annualized cash rental payments. It does not reflect any accounting associated with any free rent, rent abatements or future scheduled rent increases and also excludes operating expense and power reimbursements.
(3)Consists of annualized rent associated with customer leases whose original contract terms ended on December 31, 2020 and have signed a renewal or are eligible for renewal, as well as customers whose leases expired prior to December 31, 2020 and have continued on a month-to-month basis. We do not typically enter into month-to-month leases.
Primary Customers. The following table summarizes information regarding primary customers, which are customers occupying 10% or more of the leased raised floor of the Atlanta-Suwanee facility, as of December 31, 2020:
(1)Weighted average based on customer’s percentage of total annualized rent expiring as of December 31, 2020.
(2)Annualized rent is presented for leases commenced as of December 31, 2020. We define annualized rent as MRR multiplied by 12. We calculate MRR as monthly contractual revenue under signed leases as of a particular date, which includes revenue from our rental and managed services activities, but excludes customer recoveries, deferred set-up fees, variable related revenues, non-cash revenues and other one-time revenues. MRR does not include the impact from booked-not-billed leases as of a particular date, unless otherwise specifically noted. This amount reflects the annualized cash rental payments. It does not reflect any accounting associated with any free rent, rent abatements or future scheduled rent increases and also excludes operating expense and power reimbursements.
Historical Percentage Leased and Annualized Rental Rates. The following table sets forth the leasable raised floor, percentage leased, annualized rent and annualized rent per leased raised square foot for the Atlanta-Suwanee facility:
(1)Calculated as data center raised floor that is subject to a signed lease for which billing has commenced as of the applicable date, divided by leasable raised floor based on the then current configuration of the property, expressed as a percentage.
(2)Annualized rent is presented for leases commenced as of the applicable date. We define annualized rent as MRR multiplied by 12. We calculate MRR as monthly contractual revenue under signed leases as of a particular date, which includes revenue from our rental and managed services activities, but excludes customer recoveries, deferred set-up fees, variable related revenues, non-cash revenues and other one-time revenues. MRR does not include the impact from booked-not-billed leases as of a particular date, unless otherwise specifically noted. This amount reflects the annualized cash rental payments. It does not reflect any free rent, rent abatements or future scheduled rent increases and also excludes operating expense and power reimbursements.
Irving
We purchased our Irving facility in February 2013. Prior to our purchase, the facility was operated as a semiconductor fabrication facility. Similar to our Richmond facility, the Irving facility has significant pre-existing infrastructure. Specifically, the Irving facility has diverse feeds of 140 MW of utility power and approximately 698,000 gross square feet on 39 acres. We are the fee simple owner of the Irving facility.
We acquired our Irving facility because we believe that we will be able to execute a redevelopment strategy similar to our Richmond facility. Given the infrastructure that was already in place due to its former use as a semiconductor fabrication facility, we believe that the incremental costs to redevelop data center raised floor space in this facility will be lower compared to typical costs for ground-up development or redevelopments of other building types. In addition, the access to a significant amount of utility power provides the necessary power capacity to support our growth strategy for our Irving data center. Furthermore, we believe that the Dallas market is an important data center market primarily due to its strong business environment and relatively affordable power costs.
The Irving facility is included in our development pipeline, as we continue to convert the entire facility into an operating data center in multiple phases. During the year ended December 31, 2020, we placed approximately 20,000 raised floor NRSF into service. Our current under construction redevelopment plans call for the addition of up to approximately 84,000 total operating NRSF, including approximately 34,000 NRSF of raised floor. We own sufficient undeveloped land on the site, approximately 29 acres, that we believe could also be developed to provide an additional 1.3 million total operating NRSF, of which approximately 680,000 NRSF would be raised floor. These 29 acres of undeveloped land are not included in our current development plans.
As of December 31, 2020, the facility was approximately 96% occupied by 175 customers.
Lease Expirations. The following table sets forth a summary schedule of the lease expirations for leases in place as of December 31, 2020 at the Irving facility. Unless otherwise stated in the footnotes, the information set forth in the table assumes that customers exercise no renewal options and all early termination rights.
(1)Represents each lease with a customer signed as of December 31, 2020 for which billing has commenced; a lease agreement could include multiple spaces and/or service orders and a customer could have multiple leases.
(2)Annualized rent is presented for leases commenced as of December 31, 2020. We define annualized rent as MRR multiplied by 12. We calculate MRR as monthly contractual revenue under signed leases as of a particular date, which includes revenue from our rental and managed services activities, but excludes customer recoveries, deferred set-up fees, variable related revenues, non-cash revenues and other one-time revenues. MRR does not include the impact from booked-not-billed leases as of a particular date, unless otherwise specifically noted. This amount reflects the annualized cash rental payments. It does not reflect any accounting associated with any free rent, rent abatements or future scheduled rent increases and also excludes operating expense and power reimbursements.
(3)Consists of annualized rent associated with customer leases whose original contract terms ended on December 31, 2020 and have signed a renewal or are eligible for renewal, as well as customers whose leases expired prior to December 31, 2020 and have continued on a month-to-month basis. We do not typically enter into month-to-month leases.
Primary Customers. The following table summarizes information regarding primary customers, which are customers occupying 10% or more of the leased raised floor of the Irving facility, as of December 31, 2020:
(1)Weighted average based on customer’s percentage of total annualized rent expiring as of December 31, 2020.
(2)Annualized rent is presented for leases commenced as of December 31, 2020. We define annualized rent as MRR multiplied by 12. We calculate MRR as monthly contractual revenue under signed leases as of a particular date, which includes revenue from our rental and managed services activities, but excludes customer recoveries, deferred set-up fees, variable related revenues, non-cash revenues and other one-time revenues. MRR does not include the impact from booked-not-billed leases as of a particular date, unless otherwise specifically noted. This amount reflects the annualized cash rental payments. It does not reflect any accounting associated with any free rent, rent abatements or future scheduled rent increases and also excludes operating expense and power reimbursements.
Historical Percentage Leased and Annualized Rental Rates. The following table sets forth the leasable raised floor, percentage leased, annualized rent and annualized rent per leased raised square foot for the Irving facility:
(1)Calculated as data center raised floor that is subject to a signed lease for which billing has commenced as of the applicable date, divided by leasable raised floor based on the then current configuration of the property, expressed as a percentage.
(2)Annualized rent is presented for leases commenced as of the applicable date. We define annualized rent as MRR multiplied by 12. We calculate MRR as monthly contractual revenue under signed leases as of a particular date, which includes revenue from our rental and managed services activities, but excludes customer recoveries, deferred set-up fees, variable related revenues, non-cash revenues and other one-time revenues. MRR does not include the impact from booked-not-billed leases as of a particular date, unless otherwise specifically noted. This amount reflects the annualized cash rental payments. It does not reflect any accounting associated with any free rent, rent abatements or future scheduled rent increases and also excludes operating expense and power reimbursements.
Ashburn
In August 2017, we completed the acquisition of approximately 24 acres of land in Ashburn, Virginia and constructed a mega data center facility (DC-1) on the acquired land parcel. As of December 31, 2020, the property consisted of approximately 445,000 gross square feet with approximately 314,000 total operating NRSF, including approximately 149,000 raised floor operating NRSF. Multiple utility feeders supply 50 MW of utility power to the facility, which is backed up by diesel generators. As of December 31, 2020, the facility was approximately 97% occupied by 14 customers across our product offerings.
The Ashburn facility is included in our development pipeline, as we plan to expand the mega data center in multiple phases. During the year ended December 31, 2020, we placed approximately 80,000 raised floor NRSF into service. Our current under construction development plans call for up to approximately 25,000 total operating NRSF, including approximately 14,000 NRSF of raised floor. We anticipate that this expansion will cost (in addition to $10 million already incurred as of December 31, 2020) approximately $21 million in the aggregate based on current estimates. Longer term, we can further expand the facility by approximately 39,000 total operating NRSF, of which approximately 15,000 would be raised floor. Upon completion of the build-out of the facility, we anticipate that the facility would contain approximately 445,000 gross square feet, including approximately 178,000 NRSF of raised floor.
In July 2019, we completed the acquisition of approximately 28 acres of land in Ashburn, Virginia and started constructing a mega data center facility (DC-2) on the acquired land parcel. As of December 31, 2020, the property was under development and consisted of approximately 310,000 gross square feet with approximately 170,000 raised floor operating NRSF. Ashburn (DC-2) is expected to be open in 2021.
In addition, in October 2017, we completed the acquisition of approximately 28 acres of land in Ashburn, Virginia, that we believe could also be developed to provide an additional 2 million total operating NRSF, of which approximately 1 million NRSF would be raised floor. These 28 acres of undeveloped land are not included in our current development plans or property table.
Lease Expirations. The following table sets forth a summary schedule of lease expirations for leases in place as of December 31, 2020 at the Ashburn (DC-1) facility. Unless otherwise stated in the footnotes, the information set forth in the table assumes that customers exercise no renewal options and all early termination rights.
(1)Represents each lease with a customer signed as of December 31, 2020 for which billing has commenced; a lease agreement could include multiple spaces and/or service orders and a customer could have multiple leases.
(2)Annualized rent is presented for leases commenced as of December 31, 2020. We define annualized rent as MRR multiplied by 12. We calculate MRR as monthly contractual revenue under signed leases as of a particular date, which includes revenue from our rental and managed services activities, but excludes customer recoveries, deferred set-up fees, variable related revenues, non-cash revenues and other one-time revenues. MRR does not include the impact from booked-not-billed leases as of a particular date, unless otherwise specifically noted. This amount reflects the annualized cash rental payments. It does not reflect any accounting associated with any free rent, rent abatements or future scheduled rent increases and also excludes operating expense and power reimbursements.
(3)Consists of annualized rent associated with customer leases whose original contract terms ended on December 31, 2020 and have signed a renewal or are eligible for renewal, as well as customers whose leases expired prior to December 31, 2020 and have continued on a month-to-month basis. We do not typically enter into month-to-month leases.
Primary Customers. The following table summarizes information regarding primary customers, which are customers occupying 10% or more of the leased raised floor of the Ashburn (DC-1) facility, as of December 31, 2020:
(1)Weighted average based on customer’s percentage of total annualized rent expiring as of December 31, 2020.
(2)Annualized rent is presented for leases commenced as of December 31, 2020. We define annualized rent as MRR multiplied by 12. We calculate MRR as monthly contractual revenue under signed leases as of a particular date, which includes revenue from our rental and managed services activities, but excludes customer recoveries, deferred set-up fees, variable related revenues, non-cash revenues and other one-time revenues. MRR does not include the impact from booked-not-billed leases as of a particular date, unless otherwise specifically noted. This amount reflects the annualized cash rental payments. It does not reflect any accounting associated with any free rent, rent abatements or future scheduled rent increases and also excludes operating expense and power reimbursements.
Historical Percentage Leased and Annualized Rental Rates. The following table sets forth the leasable raised floor, percentage leased, annualized rent and annualized rent per leased raised square foot for the Ashburn (DC-1) facility:
(1)Calculated as data center raised floor that is subject to a signed lease for which billing has commenced as of the applicable date, divided by leasable raised floor based on the then current configuration of the property, expressed as a percentage.
(2)Annualized rent is presented for leases commenced as of the applicable date. We define annualized rent as MRR multiplied by 12. We calculate MRR as monthly contractual revenue under signed leases as of a particular date, which includes revenue from our rental and managed services activities, but excludes customer recoveries, deferred set-up fees, variable related revenues, non-cash revenues and other one-time revenues. MRR does not include the impact from booked-not-billed leases as of a particular date, unless otherwise specifically noted. This amount reflects the annualized cash rental payments. It does not reflect any accounting associated with any free rent, rent abatements or future scheduled rent increases and also excludes operating expense and power reimbursements.
Below is a description of our other properties.
Richmond
Our Richmond, Virginia data center is situated on an approximately 292-acre site comprised of three large buildings available for data center redevelopment, each with two to three floors, and an administrative building that also has space available for data center redevelopment. As of December 31, 2020, the data center had approximately 1.3 million gross square feet with approximately 345,000 total operating NRSF, including approximately 140,000 of raised floor operating NRSF. The Richmond facility contains approximately 110 MW of utility power, which is backed up by diesel generators. As of December 31, 2020, one of these primary buildings was fully operational as a data center and another was partially operational. We believe that our Richmond facility is situated in an ideal location due to its proximity to Washington, DC, which offers numerous sources of demand for our products including the federal government, and provides geographical diversification from the Northern Virginia data center market. There are three core segments that we believe represent the most significant opportunity for our Richmond data center: entities associated with the federal government, given the highly secured nature of this facility and its proximity to Washington, DC; regulated industries, such as financial institutions, given our investments in security and regulatory compliance; and large enterprise customers, given the large scale of this facility. Our Richmond mega data center can accommodate large and growing customers, while also accommodating colocation and managed services customers, at attractive energy costs.
We acquired our Richmond facility in 2010 through a bankruptcy process. We estimate that the former owner, a semiconductor manufacturer, had invested over $1 billion to develop the facility prior to the bankruptcy. Because the facility operated as a semiconductor fabrication facility prior to our acquisition, it had significant pre-existing infrastructure, including 110 MW of utility power, approximately 25,000 tons of chiller capacity, “Class A” private office space and other related supporting infrastructure. As a result, to date the incremental cost to redevelop the facility into a data center has been lower than the typical cost of ground-up data center development or redevelopment of other types of buildings into data centers. As of December 31, 2020, the facility was approximately 94% occupied by 153 customers across our product offerings.
We are the fee simple owner of the Richmond facility.
The Richmond facility is included in our development pipeline. During the year ended December 31, 2020, we placed approximately 23,000 NRSF of raised floor into service. Our current under construction redevelopment plans call for the addition of up to 52,000 total operating NRSF, including 27,000 NRSF of raised floor. We anticipate that this expansion will cost approximately $7 million in the aggregate based on current estimates (in addition to costs already incurred as of December 31, 2020). Longer term, we can further expand the facility by approximately 888,000 total operating NRSF, of which approximately 390,000 NRSF would be raised floor. Upon completion of the build-out of the facility, we anticipate that the facility would contain approximately 1.3 million total operating NRSF, including approximately 557,000 NRSF of raised floor.
In addition, we own approximately 182 acres of undeveloped land on the site that we estimate could be developed to provide, at a minimum, an additional approximately 6.3 million total operating NRSF, of which approximately 3.5 million NRSF would be raised floor. These 182 acres of undeveloped land are not included in our current development plans.
Chicago
Our Chicago facility, which we acquired in July 2014, is the former Sun Times Press facility near downtown Chicago, Illinois. We are the fee simple owner of the Chicago facility. The facility consists of approximately 475,000 gross square feet, including approximately 99,000 raised floor operating NRSF.
The Chicago facility is included in our development pipeline, as we plan to convert the facility into an operating data center in multiple phases. During the year ended December 31, 2020, we placed approximately 29,000 raised floor NRSF into service. Our current under construction redevelopment plans call for the addition of up to approximately 177,000 total operating NRSF, including approximately 89,000 NRSF of raised floor. We own sufficient undeveloped land on the site, approximately 23 acres, that we believe could also be developed to provide an additional 350,000 total operating NRSF, of which approximately 200,000 NRSF would be raised floor. These 23 acres of undeveloped land are not included in our current development plans.
As of December 31, 2020, the facility was approximately 92% occupied by 87 customers.
Leased Facilities Acquired in 2015
We acquired leased facilities as part of our acquisition of Carpathia Hosting, Inc. (“Carpathia”) on June 16, 2015. As of December 31, 2020, these leased facilities, including those subject to finance leases, consisted of domestic data centers located in Phoenix, Arizona; San Jose, California and Ashburn, Virginia; and two international data centers located in Toronto, Canada and Amsterdam, Netherlands. As of December 31, 2020, QTS is no longer leasing space at the Secaucus, New Jersey; London, United Kingdom, and Hong Kong facilities. In addition, we significantly reduced our square footage of leased facilities in Ashburn during 2020.
These leased facilities consist of approximately 187,706 gross square feet with approximately 119,616 total operating NRSF, including approximately 59,065 raised floor operating NRSF. We are not currently redeveloping the leased facilities, we have no current plans to further build out or expand any of these leased facilities.
As of December 31, 2020, the facilities were approximately 88.4% occupied by 50 customers. The majority of the customers at these facilities are colocation and managed services customers which lease small amounts of space.
Santa Clara
Our Santa Clara, California facility was acquired in November 2007. The facility, which is owned subject to a long-term ground sublease as described below, consists of two buildings containing approximately 135,000 gross square feet with approximately 106,000 total operating NRSF, including approximately 60,000 raised floor operating NRSF. The facility is situated on a 6.5-acre site in Silicon Valley. Several Silicon Valley Power substations supply 11 MW of utility power to the facility, which is backed up by diesel generators. We believe that Silicon Valley is an ideal data center location due to the large concentration of technology companies and the high local demand for data centers and managed services.
As of December 31, 2020, the facility was approximately 89% occupied by 90 customers.
Our current under construction redevelopment plans call for the addition of approximately 4,000 raised floor operating NRSF. Longer term, we can further expand the facility by approximately 20,000 total operating NRSF, of which approximately 17,000 NRSF would be raised floor. Upon completion of the build-out of the facility, we anticipate that the facility would contain approximately 131,000 total operating NRSF, including approximately 81,000 NRSF of raised floor.
The Santa Clara facility is subject to a ground lease. We acquired a ground sublease interest in the land on which the Santa Clara facility is located in November 2007. The ground sublease expires in 2052, subject to two 10-year extension options. The annual rent payable under the ground sublease increases annually by the lesser of 6% or the increase in the Consumer Price Index for the San Francisco Bay area. The rent was recently adjusted effective October 1, 2018, and will also be adjusted in 2038, to equal one-twelfth of an amount equal to 8.5% of the product of (i) the then fair market value of the
demised premises (without taking into account the value of the improvements existing on the land) calculated on a per square foot basis, and (ii) the net square footage of the demised premises. During the term of the ground lease, we have certain obligations to facilitate the provision of job training, seminars and research opportunities for students of a community college that is adjacent to the property. We are the indirect holder of this ground sublease.
Sacramento
Our Sacramento, California facility, which we acquired in December 2012, is located 120 miles from our Santa Clara facility on a 6.8-acre site. The facility currently consists of approximately 93,000 gross square feet with approximately 81,000 total operating NRSF, including approximately 55,000 raised floor operating NRSF. The Sacramento Municipal Utility District supplies 8 MW of utility power to the facility, which is backed up by diesel generators. This facility will provide our regional customer base with business continuity services. We believe the property’s location is a valuable complement to our Santa Clara facility for our customers, as it will allow them to diversify their footprint in the California market with a single provider.
We are not currently redeveloping significant portions of the Sacramento facility.
As of December 31, 2020, the facility was approximately 46% occupied by 123 customers. The majority of the customers at this facility are colocation customers which lease small amounts of space. We are the fee simple owner of the Sacramento facility.
Miami
Our Miami, Florida facility currently consists of approximately 30,000 gross square feet with approximately 26,000 total operating NRSF, including 20,000 raised floor operating NRSF. The property sits on a 1.6-acre site located at Dolphin Center with 4 MW of utility power supplied by Florida Power & Light and backed up by diesel generators. With a wind rating of 185 miles-per-hour, the facility is built to withstand a Category 5 hurricane. Miami is a strategic location for us because it is a gateway to the South American financial markets and a transcontinental Internet hub. Other than normally recurring capital expenditures, we have no current plans to further build-out or expand the Miami facility.
As of December 31, 2020, the facility was approximately 77.6% occupied by 107 customers. We intend to continue to lease-up this property. We are the fee simple owner of the Miami facility.
Jersey City
Our Jersey City, New Jersey facility is a leased facility that consists of approximately 122,000 gross square feet with approximately 88,000 total operating NRSF, including approximately 32,000 raised floor operating NRSF. The Jersey City facility was originally leased by another party in March 2004 and we acquired the lease in October 2006 when we acquired the lessee. The lease expires in September 2026 and is subject to one five-year extension option. The facility was redeveloped in November 2006, and we subsequently leased it to service customers in New Jersey and New York. The facility is comprised of four floors of a 19 story building located on one city block in the metropolitan New York City area, six miles from Manhattan. PSE&G supplies 7 MW of utility power to the facility, which is backed up by diesel generators. The facility also contains a small amount of “Class A” office space. We believe that the location in Jersey City provides us with a valuable presence in the tri-state area, where space is highly coveted given the strong demand from financial services firms.
We are not currently redeveloping significant portions of the Jersey City facility. Longer term, we can further expand the facility by approximately 21,000 NRSF of raised floor. Upon completion of the build-out of the facility, we anticipate that the facility would contain approximately 109,000 total operating NRSF, including approximately 53,000 NRSF of raised floor.
As of December 31, 2020, the facility was approximately 76% occupied by 53 customers.
Princeton
Our Princeton, New Jersey facility, which we acquired in June 2014, is located on approximately 194 acres and consists of approximately 554,000 gross square feet, including approximately 58,000 square feet of raised floor, and 22 MW of available utility power. Concurrently with acquiring this data center we entered into a 10 year lease for the facility’s 58,000 square feet of raised floor with Atos, an international information technology services company headquartered in Bezos, France. The lease includes a 15 year renewal at the option of Atos.
We are not currently redeveloping significant portions of the Princeton facility. Longer term, we can expand the facility by approximately 372,000 total operating NRSF, of which approximately 100,000 NRSF would be raised floor. Upon completion of the build-out of the facility, we anticipate that the facility would contain approximately 544,000 total operating NRSF, including approximately 158,000 NRSF of raised floor.
As of December 31, 2020, the facility was approximately 100% occupied by 1 customer.
Piscataway
Our Piscataway, New Jersey facility, which we acquired in June 2016, currently consists of approximately 360,000 gross square feet with approximately 254,000 total operating NRSF, including approximately 118,000 raised floor operating NRSF. The property is located on a 38-acre campus and includes an on-site 111 MW substation as well as solar panels that produce approximately 2 MW of power.
The Piscataway facility is included in our development pipeline. During the year ended December 31, 2020, we placed approximately 14,000 NRSF of raised floor into service. Our current under construction redevelopment plans call for the addition of up to 36,000 total operating NRSF, including 20,000 NRSF of raised floor. We anticipate that this expansion will cost approximately $27 million in the aggregate based on current estimates (in addition to costs already incurred as of December 31, 2020). Longer term, we can further expand the facility by approximately 64,000 total operating NRSF, of which approximately 38,000 would be raised floor. Upon completion of the build-out of the facility, we anticipate that the facility would contain approximately 354,000 total operating NRSF, including approximately 176,000 NRSF of raised floor.
As of December 31, 2020, the facility was approximately 91% occupied by 85 customers.
Fort Worth
Our Fort Worth, Texas facility, which we acquired in December 2016, is located on approximately 53 acres and consists of approximately 262,000 gross square feet, including approximately 71,000 square feet of raised floor and 50 MW of available utility power. The facility is located approximately 20 miles from our Irving, Texas data center.
The Fort Worth facility is included in our development pipeline, as we plan to convert the facility into an operating data center in multiple phases. During the year ended December 31, 2020, we placed approximately 33,000 raised floor NRSF into service. Longer term, we can further expand the facility by approximately 36,000 total operating NRSF, of which approximately 9,000 would be raised floor. Upon completion of the build-out of the facility, we anticipate that the facility would contain approximately 251,000 total operating NRSF, including approximately 80,000 NRSF of raised floor.
As of December 31, 2020, the facility was approximately 67% occupied by 17 customers.
Dulles
Our Vault facility in Dulles, Virginia consists of approximately 67,000 gross square feet, including approximately 27,000 square feet of raised floor NRSF and approximately 11 MW of available utility power. The data center buildings were built from the ground up to stringent Sensitive Compartmented Information Facility standards set by the Department of Defense and National Security Agency. The Dulles campus has two data center buildings. As of December 31, 2020, we had abandoned one of the buildings and relocated customers from the smaller and older facility to the newer facility in an effort to better optimize our operating cost structure. In addition, the Dulles data center is located a quarter of a mile from our Ashburn data center.
We acquired the Dulles, Virginia campus as part of our acquisition of Carpathia on June 16, 2015. From the Carpathia acquisition date through October 5, 2017, the facility was subject to a lease financing obligation. On October 6, 2017, the Company completed the buyout of the Dulles facility. At the time of the Dulles facility purchase the lease financing obligation was approximately $17.8 million and the Company purchased the property for approximately $34.1 million cash, for a net purchase price of $16.3 million.
The Dulles facility is included in our development pipeline. Longer term, we can further expand the existing facility by approximately 18,000 NRSF of raised floor. Upon completion of the build-out of the facility, we anticipate that the facility would contain approximately 87,000 total operating NRSF, including approximately 48,000 NRSF of raised floor.
As of December 31, 2020, the facility was approximately 98% occupied by 111 customers.
Groningen, Netherlands and Eemshaven, Netherlands
In April 2019 we completed the acquisition of two data centers in the Netherlands for approximately $44 million in cash consideration, including closing costs. The two facilities, in Groningen and Eemshaven, have approximately 38,632 square feet of raised floor capacity and over 92 megawatts of built out available utility power.
The Eemshaven facility is strategically located adjacent to multiple hyperscale customer-owned data center deployments, including a 500+ megawatt data center campus operated by one of the largest hyperscale cloud providers in the world. In addition, the facility is located in close proximity to multiple transatlantic fiber cable landings providing access to multiple markets within Europe and North America.
During the year ended December 31, 2020, we completed the first phase of construction. During the year ended December 31, 2020, we opened the facility and placed approximately 16,000 NRSF of raised floor into service. Longer term, we can further expand the facility by approximately 187,000 total operating NRSF, of which approximately 104,000 would be raised floor. Upon completion of the build-out of the facility, we anticipate that the facility would contain approximately 204,000 gross square feet, including approximately 113,000 NRSF of raised floor.
As of December 31, 2020, the Eemshaven data center was operational with 6 colocation tenants and had built-out capacity representing approximately 2 gross megawatts of power and 9,000 square feet of raised floor data center space.
The Groningen facility currently has built-out capacity representing approximately 10 gross megawatts of power and 45,000 square feet of raised floor data center space. The facility represents one of the most interconnected data centers in the Netherlands market with more than 10 network providers and internet exchanges on site including NL-IX and Eurofiber. Longer term, we can further expand the facility by approximately 38,000 total operating NRSF, of which approximately 16,000 would be raised floor. Upon completion of the build-out of the facility, we anticipate that the facility would contain approximately 108,000 gross square feet, including approximately 45,000 NRSF of raised floor.
As of December 31, 2020, the Groningen data center was largely stabilized with over 30 colocation tenants and had built-out capacity representing approximately 6 gross megawatts of power and 29,000 square feet of raised floor data center space.
Phoenix
In July 2017, we completed the acquisition of approximately 84 acres of land in Phoenix, Arizona to be used for future development.
Hillsboro
In October 2017, we completed the acquisition of approximately 92 acres of land in Hillsboro, Oregon. Ultimately, we believe the 92 acre parcel of land can support approximately 250 megawatts of available utility power, 1.5 million gross square feet and 1.0 million square feet of raised floor capacity upon completion.
During the year ended December 31, 2020, we completed the first phase of construction of a mega data center. During the year ended December 31, 2020, we opened the facility and placed approximately 24,000 NRSF of raised floor into service. Our current under construction development plans call for up to approximately 3.0 gross MW of power infrastructure. We
anticipate that this expansion will cost (in addition to $12 million already incurred as of December 31, 2020) approximately $15 million in the aggregate based on current estimates.
Longer term, we can further expand the facility by approximately 111,000 total operating NRSF, of which approximately 61,000 would be raised floor. Upon completion of the build-out of the facility, we anticipate that the facility would contain approximately 158,000 gross square feet, including approximately 85,000 NRSF of raised floor.
Manassas
In March 2018, we completed the acquisition of approximately 28 acres of land in Manassas, Virginia. As of December 31, 2020, the property was under development to construct a new data center facility in Manassas (DC-2) and consisted of approximately 340,000 gross square feet with approximately 160,000 raised floor operating NRSF. The Manassas (DC-2) data center property, which is 100% owned by QTS and is separate from the aforementioned unconsolidated entity, is expected to be completed in 2021.
In August 2018, we completed the acquisition of approximately 61 acres of land in Manassas, Virginia. The land is currently being used to support the construction of a data center, which the Company completed and delivered the first three phases of six phases and has begun active construction of the fourth phase. Additionally, separate from the unconsolidated entity, during the three months ended September 30, 2018, the Company completed the acquisition of approximately 57 acres of additional land in Manassas, Virginia to be used for future development which is adjacent to the aforementioned 61 acres of land in Manassas.
On February 22, 2019, we entered into an agreement with Alinda, an infrastructure investment firm, with respect to our Manassas data center. At closing, we contributed the Manassas data center, and Alinda contributed cash, in each case, in exchange for a 50% interest in the unconsolidated entity (which includes a 50% interest in future income). The Company received approximately $53 million in cash plus a 50% equity interest in the unconsolidated entity at closing in exchange for contributing the data center to the unconsolidated entity. Under the agreement, we serve as the entity’s operating member, subject to authority and oversight of a board appointed by us and Alinda, and separately we serve as manager and developer of the facility in exchange for management and development fees. The agreement includes various transfer restrictions and rights of first offer that will allow us to repurchase Alinda’s interest should Alinda wish to exit in the future. In addition, we have agreed to provide Alinda an opportunity to invest in future similar agreements based on similar terms and a comparable capitalization rate. This agreement has been reflected as an unconsolidated entity on our reported financial statements beginning in the first quarter of 2019. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Factors That May Influence Future Results of Operations and Cash Flows-Unconsolidated Entity.”
Overland Park
The Overland Park, Kansas facility, known as the J. Williams Technology Center, is a leased facility consisting of approximately 33,000 gross square feet, with approximately 8,000 total operating NRSF, including approximately 2,500 raised floor operating NRSF. Kansas City Power & Light supplies approximately 1 MW of utility power, which is backed up by a diesel generator. The J. Williams Technology Center has housed the corporate headquarters of the Quality Group of Companies, LLC. (“QGC”) since September 2003. We lease the facility under a lease with an entity controlled by our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, which was entered into in January 2009 and expires in December 2023. This building, while containing a small data center, is primarily utilized as our corporate headquarters. Other than normally recurring capital expenditures and expansion of our own office space at our headquarters, we have no current plans to further build-out or expand the raised floor at our Overland Park data center.
As of December 31, 2020, the facility was approximately 53% occupied by 10 customers.
Lenexa
Our Lenexa, Kansas property, which was acquired in 2004, contains approximately 35,000 gross square feet. The Lenexa property does not currently operate as a data center, nor do we intend to operate it as a data center. We have historically used this property primarily as a warehouse, but currently lease approximately 22,000 square feet to a tenant for general office use, and 12,205 square feet to a tenant as general office and warehouse space. Other than minimal normally recurring capital expenditures, we have no current plans to further build out or expand the Lenexa property.
ITEM 3.