ITEM 2. PROPERTIES.
Overview
Olympia Gold Claim
The following independent geological mapping report was undertaken at the request of the property owner Consorcio de Mineria y Exploraciones Olympia, S.R.L., to comply with the international exploration standards for the Olympia Gold Claim (“Olympia”). The author of the report was Mr. Hilario Sosa, Professional Geologist, who graduated from the Universidad Tecnologica de Santiago as an Engineer of Geology in 1994 and obtained in 1996 his Master’s of Science from UMAM University fo Mexico. He has been a geologist for 18 years and visited the Olympia between November 25th and December 13, 2012. Since 1995 he has worked for Kuky Silverio Industrial (for nine years), Pato Alto Mining Company (for five years) and Barrick Mining (for one year).
The mineral claim was assigned to Consorcio de Mineria Y Exploraciones Olympia, S.R.L., and the designation was filed with the Ministry of Industry and Commerce and Mining Directorate of the Government of the Dominican Republic.
Consorcio de Mineria y Exploraciones Olympia, SRL, has submitted and registered an exploration concession application to the Dominican government which has not been yet granted. The Dominican mining law grants Licenses of Exploration Concessions for a period of three years with two, one-year extensions allowed. The exploration concession is under revision by the technical departments of DGM, nevertheless, due to a constant follow up, all required documents were submitted.
Consorcio de Mineria y Exploraciones Olympia, SRL, is a Limited Liability Company, incorporated the date of 04th of September 2012, under the laws and regulations of the Dominican Republic, with its Mercantile Registry No. 20514-PP and Tax ID No. 130-940134, both up to date.
The taxation years the subsidiary runs from 01st of January to 31st of December, being the annual filing every 30th of April.
Mining Law in the Dominican Republic
Mining in the Dominican Republic is governed by the General Mining Law No. 146 of 4 June 1971, and Regulation No. 207-98 of 3 June 1998. The mining authority is the General Mining Directorate (Dirección General de Minería - DGM) which is part of the Secretary of State of Industry and Commerce.
The properties are simply known and recorded in their respective property name under a License of Metallic Exploration Concession. Title is valid for three years. Two separate one-year extensions are allowed. After five years the concessions may be reapplied for giving the concessions a further three to five years.
The taxes are paid every six months during the first weeks of January and June. The full yearly amount is paid at the start of the year. The annual amount for each concession ranges between US$4,000 and US$25,000 (based on the current exchange rate). Every six months a full report has to be submitted to the Department of Mines summarizing work completed during the previous six months, work plans and budget for the next six months, and any geochemical data. There is no specified level of work commitment per concession.
Determination of the Boundaries of the Olympia
The Olympia concession have not been surveyed, however the claim owner, Consorico de Mineria Y Exploraciones Olympia, has erected a reference monument centrally within the property as required in the claim staking process and this is surveyed by the Mines Department. A detailed description of the procedure follows:
●
The claim system in place revolves around one principal survey point PP (Punto de Partida or Departure Point), as opposed to staking all corner points with a physical stake as would be done in Canada or Australia.
●
Three types of sample points that need to be calculated, a Punto de Partida (PP), a Punto de Referencia (Reference Point, PR) and three visually recognizable points (Visuales or Visuals, V1, V2 & V3).
●
The PP point is a visual point from which the proposed claim boundary point can be clearly seen by line of sight. The PP point is usually a topographic high with a distance to the proposed claim boundary greater than 100 meters.
●
From the PP point a second point the “Punto de Referencia” (PR) is selected. The PR point is usually another topographic high or a distinctive topographic feature such as river confluence or a road / trail junction. The bearing and distance between the PP and PR points are calculated and tabulated.
●
From the PR point three separate visually identifiable points V1, V2 and V3 are selected, usually distinctive topographic feature such as confluences of rivers or road / trail junctions. The bearing and distances between the PR point and three visual points V1, V2 & V3 are calculated and tabulated.
●
From the PP point the distance to the proposed claim boundary a north-south or east-west line (no less than 100 m) is calculated. From the point at which this line intersects the claim boundary the corner points of the claim area are calculated. The corner points (Puntos de conneccion) are defined by north-south or east-west lines from the point at which the line intersects the boundary and then from each other until the boundary is completed. There is no limit to the number of points that can be used and no minimum size of claim.
●
A government surveyor is sent out to review all survey points in the field after legal and fiscal verification of the claim application by the mines department.
The Exploration Concession grants its holder the right to carry out activities above or below the earth’s surface in order to define the areas containing mineral deposits by using any technical and scientific methods. For such purposes the holder may construct buildings, install machinery, communication lines and any other equipment that his research requires. No additional permitting is required until the drilling stage, which requires an environmental permit (unless drilling is no deeper than 20 meters)
An Exploitation Concession may be requested at any time during the exploration stage, and grants the right to prepare and extract all mineral substances found in the area, allowing the beneficiary to exploit, smelt and use for any business purpose the extracted materials. This type of concession is granted for a period of 75 years.
Exploitation properties in the Dominican Republic are subject to annual surface fees and a net smelter return (NSR) of 5%. A 5% net profits interest (NPI) is also payable to the municipality in which mining occurs as an environmental consideration. The value added tax is 18%. The NSR is deductible from income tax and is assessed on concentrates, but not smelted or refined product. Income Tax payable is a minimum of 1.5% of annual gross proceeds.
Environmental Regulations
The environment is governed by the General Law of the Environment and Natural Resources No. 64-00 of 18 August 2000. The environmental authority is Sub Secretary of Environmental Affairs of the Secretary of State of the Environment and Natural Resources. An environmental permit is required for trenching and drilling. The main steps in the procedure to obtain this are as follows:
1. Complete the Prior Analysis Form with the project data including name of the project, name of the company, location on a 1:50,000 scale map, and name of the legal representative.
2. Description of the planned work including type of equipment to be used, size of the drill platforms, amount of water that will be required, environmental management plans for fuel, oil and grease, and recirculation of water.
3. Authorization of the land owners with copy of property title.
4. Pay a tax of RD$5,000.00 (about US$141.50).
5. Copy of the Resolution of the Exploration License title.
6. UTM coordinates of the vertices of the Exploration Concession.
Deposit Types and Mineralization
The island of Hispaniola evolved as a complex island arc associated with bi-polar subduction through Cretaceous to Late Eocene time. Since then, the island has straddled the left-lateral strike-slip fault zone that separates the North American and Caribbean Plates and has largely been volcanically inactive. The Tertiary stratigraphic succession is dominated by sedimentary rocks. The most important rock units in terms of gold and base metal mineralization are the Los Ranchos, Maimon, Tireo and Duarte Formations.
Model lead isotope ages and paleontological evidence yield early Cretaceous ages for both the Los Ranchos and Maimon Formations. Together, they constituted a composite arc associated with NW-directed subduction of the proto-Caribbean plate. The Maimon Formation represents a primitive, bimodal fore-arc assemblage composed of tholeiitic basalts and subordinate felsic volcanics and meta-sedimentary rocks whereas the Los Ranchos Formation represents the axial portion of the associated island arc. The Loma Caribe peridotite, which now hosts the nickel laterite mines, and the Duarte Formation amphibolite would have been part of the oceanic crust that floored the proto-Caribbean Sea.
The volcanic arc underwent a change in polarity in Mid-Cretaceous (Aptian to Early Albanian) time, likely triggered by the collision of the Caribbean Oceanic Plateau with Hispaniola. North-vergent obduction of the Loma Caribe peridotite also took place at this time and the arc was tectonically shortened by major thrust faulting. Shearing and metamorphism was stronger in the fore-arc (Maimon)
than the island arc (Los Ranchos).
Renewed calc-alkaline arc volcanism began in the Late Cretaceous (Cenomanian), associated with SW-directed subduction of the North Atlantic Plate beneath Hispaniola. This formed the volcanic arc now represented by the Tireo and Duarte Formations of the Central Cordillera.
Calc-alkaline volcanism continued until Middle/Late Eocene time, when the Bahama Platform (North Atlantic Plate) collided with Hispaniola and the island underwent NE-SW contraction. The Loma Caribe peridotite was emplaced over Late Cretaceous basalts of the Peralvillo Formation. Earlier faults and penetrative fabrics were steepened and overprinted by folds and Mid-Cretaceous thrusts were re-activated.
The Maimon Formation is separated from Late Cretaceous basalts (Peralvillo Formation) and the Loma Caribe peridotite by the NW-striking, left-lateral Ozama Shear Zone which is Eocene or younger. From Late Eocene time until the present, Hispaniola has been subjected to left-lateral transpression and left-lateral strike-slip faulting.
Property Description and Location
The Olympia Gold Claim consist of 3,315 (Three Thousand Three Hundred and Fifteen Mining Hectares) or 8,191 acres, located in the province of San Jose de Ocoa, municipality of San Jose de Ocoa, in the Southwestern region of the country, at about 112 kilometers from the city of Santo Domingo, capital of the Dominican Republic. The project is located in the Central Cordillera mountain belt at an altitude of 990 m, in steeply incised topography. Land use is cattle ranching, and the higher elevations are wooded. It is in the upper part of the Ocoa River basin at the section of Sabana Larga, the main town of the province. The access to the area claim has middle to low difficulty as it is located in a mountain region; nevertheless, the access to the claim is easy by 4x4 wheel drive or by horse riding.
The concession is located within the topographic sheet No.6172-II and Arroyo Cano topographic sheet No. 6172-III 1:50,000 scale, the boundaries are given by the UTM coordinates (19Q): 345.198 mE and 2'089, 000 - 2'069,826 mN. Google coordinates would be: 18’ 44’18”.12 N - 70’ 29’31”.99 O with an elevation of 990 meters.
Accessibility, Climate, Local Resources, Infractructure and Physiography
Accessibility
Access to the Olympia is from Santo Domingo to Villa Altagracia by paved highway, a distance of 112 km which takes 1 hour and 20 minutes. From Villa Altagracia to San Jose de Ocoa it is a 20 km drive on a road which is surfaced paved too.
The nearest international airport is the Airport of the Americas on the east side of Santo Domingo, about a one and a half hour drive from San Jose de Ocoa.
Climate
The mean annual temperature in San Jose de Ocoa is 22.2°C with a mean annual high of 27.8°C and a mean annual low of 16.7°C. The hottest month is July with a mean monthly high of 29.8°C, and the coolest month is January with a mean low of 15.5°C. The average annual rainfall is 1,435 mm. Rain falls all year with the wettest months being April-May and October to December (data from www.climate-charts.com, average data for 1961 to 1990). The weather is dominated by north east trade winds from the Atlantic.
Geological Setting
Olympia is located in the San Jose de Ocoa block in the Central Cordillera of Hispaniola which is a composite of oceanic derived accreted terrains bounded by left-lateral strike slip fault zones, and is part of the Early Cretaceous to Paleogene Greater Antilles island arc. Hispaniola is located on the northern margin of the Caribbean plate which is a left-lateral transform plate boundary. The tectonic collage is the result of west south west to south west directed oblique convergence of the continental margin of the North American plate with the Greater Antilles island arc, which began in the Eocene to Early Miocene and continues today.
The project geology comprises rhyolites, often altered to sericite schist, overlain by calcareous siltstones and mafic volcanic rocks. Massive sulfide mineralization occurs at the contact between the rhyolites and the calcareous siltstones at Rio Ocoa. Disseminated gold mineralization occurs in sericite schists at Olympia and other near areas.
The rhyolite forms a north west-trending body about 1,000 m wide at Olympia, narrowing to the north west. The sediment horizon occurs on the north east side and has been mapped for 3.5 km strike length, with a width of 40 to 90 m. Mafic volcanic rocks occur to the north east and south west of the rhyolite.
The rhyolites have phenocrysts of quartz and plagioclase and textures vary from cohesive, with flow banding, to volcaniclastic, often with hyaloclastite texture. They are interpreted to be lavas and/or domes with hyaloclastite breccias and sandstones, indicating extrusion and brecciation by chilling in a subaqueous environment. The sericite schists are altered and deformed rhyolite and predominate over unaltered and undeformed rhyolite. The schistose texture develops progressively as the amount of sericite increases, and there is a transition between rhyolite and sericite schist. The two names were used as descriptive lithological terms in mapping and core logging. Hydrothermal sericite alteration greatly lowers the competency of rhyolite resulting in development of schistosity in response to regional tectonics, and partial to complete destruction of the volcanic texture. Textural variations reflect different volcanic and volcaniclastic units. The sericite schists are pale green to white with quartz phenocrysts and sericite pseudomorphs of plagioclase and biotite, and a strong schistose foliation with open to tight, second-stage folding.
The schists contain pyrite in disseminations and in stringers parallel to, and oblique to the foliation. In places they also contain veinlets of massive to breccia textured sulfides. The sediments are dark gray to black, well bedded to laminated, calcareous siltstones. In places they have black shaley to graphitic partings. They commonly have beds of sedimentary breccia with elongate, flat siltstone rip-up clasts, and beds of volcaniclastic sandstone to conglomerate in a calcareous siltstone matrix.
Topography
The 1:50,000 topographic map with 20 m contours, published by the Instituto Cartográfico Militar (ICM -Military Cartografic Institute), was digitized and enlarged for use as a base map for exploration at Olympia. The grid used is UTM and the datum is North American Datum 1927 (NAD 27) Conus (Continental USA), Zone 19. A hand held global positioning system (GPS) receiver model Garmin “GPSmap76” was used to record sample locations.
Geochemistry
The main exploration technique used for definition of targets was geological mapping of the sericite schist - sediment contact and soil sampling. A total of 90 soil samples were taken and analyzed for gold and multielements. The area sampled is about 5.0 km long northwest by 1.4 km across. Gold and copper soil geochemistry maps are shown below. The line spacing varies from 25 m to 100 m, and the sample spacing varies from 25 m to 100 m. Most of the area was sampled on a 50 m by 50 m grid. Soil samples were taken from the B horizon and were not sieved. The average sample weight was about 0.5 kg. Gold shows a spatial correlation with Ag (Silver), As (Arsenic), Pb (Lead), Ba (Barium), Hg (Mercury), Mo (Molybdenum), Cu (Copper), Zn (Zinc), Se (Selenium) and Bi (Bismuth). There are also some anomalies of Cu-Mo-Se-Bi without significant Au (Gold) and other metals.
Working Methodology
The initial indications of mineralization at Olympia were found by fine fraction stream sediment sampling and float sampling carried out as part of a regional stream sediment geochemistry exploration program.
A total of 90 soil samples were taken and analyzed for gold and multi-elements. The area sampled is about 5.0 km long northwest by 1.4 km across. Soil samples were taken from the B horizon and were not sieved. The average sample weight was about 0.5 kg.
Rock sampling was carried out as grab samples of outcrop and float, and channel samples from hand-dug pits and trenches. A total of 30 rock samples were collected. Samples are 2 to 4 kg in weight and were analyzed for gold and multi-elements. Surface rock samples are collected to check for the existence of mineralization, but not to quantify it, and were used for resource estimation
Efforts have been made to sample points without visible contamination and upstream of roads or towns. The samples were collected in the live channel, without direct influence of contributions from the banks. Samples have been made, the result of mixture increments of at least 5 (5 to 10) collected to along 200 m of runway. Have been sought, given the thick granulometry generally found in the channels, areas with lower current strength that allowed the accumulation of finer sediments (behind large rocks or blocks, in areas of convexity of the channel, etc.). At each point were taken with GPS coordinates, and has made a record that reflected the data type of sediment and the bed of the stream.
Sample Preparation
It was important to select the type of sampling, which performed during regional exploration, where three types of sampling were performed in the area of interest:
- Active Sediments. - Sampling of sediments carried in streams or rivers causes, whose purpose was to determine the volumetric values of metallic minerals, concentrated in the watershed and from the tops of the hills and / or mountains, which circumscribe the basin. The results allowed us to zonify and to determine the origin of the sediments. This sampling was regional and was performed with a geological survey support.
- Sampling of Rock. - Sampling conducted in the lithological units potentially generating and / or mineral-storing metal concentrations and economically feasable, these sampling were performed after a regional geological study, which identified the lithological units that are present in the área of interest.
- Soil Sampling. - This sampling was performed after a detailed geological study of the area, where we have identified the lithological units and structural data (faults and fractures). This sampling was performed in alteration zones that were identified during the study, these alterations are potassic, propylitic, quartz-sericite, argillic and silicification. Any sampling outside these areas is speculative and / or wrong.
Soil and rock samples were collected in heavy duty paper and polythene sample bags respectively, sealed with wire ties and plastic cable ties respectively. A detailed sample description form was filled in for each sample, and a tear-off sample ticket inserted in the bag.
Stream sediment, soil and rock samples were shipped to Acme Labs, Vancouver, Canada for preparation and analysis. This lab complies with the requirements of international standards ISO 9001:2000 and ISO 17025:1999. The whole sample was shipped to the sample preparation facility in the Dominican Republic.
Analysis of Samples at the Olympia Claim
Express in Grams per Ton
Sample
Type
UTM - X
UTM - Y
Gold
Silver
Copper
Zinc
XTR36
ROCK
8.15
23.14
5.10
12.36
XTR42
ROCK
9.12
2.35
1.75
5.63
XTR01
ROCK
1.02
3.02
1.75
0.96
XTR24
ROCK
1.08
3.36
3.25
156.00
XTS14
SED
1.25
32.18
87.10
10.01
XTS10
SED
23.10
12.02
10.30
9.75
XTS22
SED
14.12
1.36
17.95
74.20
XTS06
SED
2.12
13.12
2.10
3.20
XSS17
SOIL
3.12
8.54
13.20
21.20
XSS65
SOIL
12.50
21.20
33.20
11.00
XSS54
SOIL
3.33
6.45
24.10
36.20
XSS23
SOIL
2.99
12.00
3.20
4.96
XSS12
SOIL
1.24
6.30
10.20
34.10
XSS27
SOIL
3.96
6.23
17.10
12.60
XTS18
SED
1.45
1.23
7.89
5.21
XTS17
SED
13.20
74.20
88.20
117.00
UTM
Universal Transverse Mercator
ROCK
Rock sample
SED
Sediments from rivers and streams on the property
SOIL
Soil samples
The above chart shows the most attractive points of interest and locations of collected samples.
These results are derived from surface exploration only, opportune drilling is recommended in order to set forth the viability and feasibility of the project.
The total number of samples taken during the exploration program was 140 which comprised 29 rock samples, 66 soil samples and 45 sediment samples. The ones not shown above contained virtually limited mineralization.
The Olympia is located near the town of San Jose de Ocoa in the Province of San Jose de Ocoa and therefore access to supplies and workers if readily available. As for sources of power during the exploration stage the Company can use generators on the claim and water access can be obtained from the numerous streams that flow over the property. There are no infrastructures located on the Olympia.
Recommendations and Conclusions
The geologist of the above noted report concludes that:
·
Exploration diamond drilling should be conducted in order to determine the quality and quantification of the deposits.
·
Exploration, surveys, sampling, sample preparation have been according to the international standards.
·
Sampling and surveying includes quality assurance procedures.
·
Exploration databases are professionally constructed and are sufficiently error-free.
The exploration budget proposed for Phase II is as follows:
Management has not yet decided when it will be able to start Phase II since at the present time it does not have the available funds to do so.
In order to maintain the Olympia in good standing during the forth coming years the following will have to be adhered to:
-
One time payments will have to be made for connection point revisions, project boundaries and newspaper publication of the ownership of the Olympia for an estimated cost of $2.300.
-
The Company will have to apply for and receive a Certificate from the Ministry of Mines indicating that it has the rights to the minerals on the Olympia for a cost of $100. This process takes time and the Company has not yet received its Certificate but has been assured it is forthcoming within the next several months.
-
Minimum annual cost to maintain the claim in good standing would be approximately $12,000 in exploration work.
Competition
Mineria Y Exploraciones is a exploration stage company which has to compete with other companies searching for minerals in the Dominion Republic and seeking financing for the development of their specific properties. Often, in not in all cases, these other mineral companies are better financed, have properties which have had sufficient exploration work done on them to warrant a future investor to consider investing in their company rather than ours. There are only a limited number of investors willing to invest in a company which had no proven reserves and is just started its exploration work. These other mineral exploration companies might induce investors to consider their properties and not ours. Hence, any additional funds they receive will be directed to the future exploration work on their properties whereas our company might be strap for funds and unable to do any worthwhile exploration work on the Olympia. We might never be able to compete against these other companies and hence never bring the Olympia into a stage where a production decision is to be made. In addition, we will have to compete with both large and small exploration companies for other resources we will need; professional geologists, transportation to and from the Olympia, materials to set up a camp if required and supplies including drill rigs.
Mineria Y Exploraciones’ Main Product
Mineria Y Exploraciones’ main product will be the sale, if a mineral ore reserve is identified, of gold that can be extracted from the Olympia once the claim has been explored. Since the property has yet to be explored in detail by us, we have yet to find an ore body and therefore cannot sell any ore.
Exploration Facilities
Mineria Y Exploraciones has no plans to construct a mile or smelter on the Olympia until an ore body of reasonable worth is found; which might never happen. While in the exploration stage, the crew of workers will be housed in the town of Ocoa due to its close proximity to the Olympia. This will initially avoid building any structures either permanent or removable on the Olympia.
Other Mineral Properties
We has not yet considered any other mineral properties until such time as we have undertaken at least explored the Olympia as recommended by our geologist in conjunction with our President. It might take several years before we consider whether the Olympia is worth pursuing with further exploration work or whether we should consider another property.
Employees
Other than our sole director and officer we do not have any other employees. He devotes approximately 24 hours a month to our operations but it is expected to increase once the drilling program is commenced in the fall of 2014 or spring of 2015. Being a professional geologist Mr. Garcia will be active in overseeing the exploration work on the Olympia and determining the next stage of exploration work to be undertaken by the Company.
To explore the Olympia we will use workers who will be hired for the specific purpose of exploring the Olympia or undertaking trenching or drilling activities. Once their work is completed they will be terminated.
Research and Development Expenditures
Mineria Y Exploraciones has not expended any money on research and development since its inception.
Patents and Trademarks
Mineria Y Exploraciones does not have any patents or trademarks.
ITEM 3.