Item 2. Properties
Our principal executive offices are located at 782 Ayala Avenue, Makati City, Philippines, 2130. Our telephone number is (63) 917-234-0098.
Lebak Gold Claim Property
Information in this section of this report is based upon the geological report on the Lebak Gold Claim dated December 15, 2012 titled “Summary of Exploration of the Lebak Gold Claim, Sultan Kudarat, Philippines”, which was authored by John Jeffrey Martinez, B.Sc., M.Sc., in the city of Manila, Republic of the Philippines (the “Report”). Location and Access
The Lebak Gold Claim consists of one (1) unpatented mineral claim, located 35 kilometers west of the province of Sultan Kudarat, 40 kilometers northwest of Upi and 62 kilometers northeast of Esperanza and Isulan on the island of Mindanao, in the Republic of the Philippines. The Lebak Gold Claim is situated at latitude 6 degrees 30’ 46” north and longitude 122 degrees 52’ 45” east.
Description of Claim
The mineral claim was assigned to Cataca Resources, Inc. by Benefacio Minerals LLC (an unrelated company) and the said assignment was filed with the Mines and Geosciences Bureau (MGB) of the Department of Energy and Natural Resources of the Philippines (DENR). . We own 100% of this claim with no encumbrance on the claim.
There are no known environmental concerns or parks designated for any area contained within the claims. As advanced exploration proceeds there may be bonding requirements for reclamation.
The primary identifying information of the Lebak Gold Claim is a Parcel Identifier as registered with the Department of Environmental and Natural Resources - Mines and Geosciences. The Parcel Identifier of the Lebak Gold Claim is 069-745-931 as recorded both with the above authority and the Office of the Register of Land Title for the Province of Sultan Kudarat. The area of the claim is 91.5 hectares. In order to obtain a mining license in the Philippines, an applicant company must apply with the Department of Environment and Natural Resources - Mines and Geosciences. The above authority then conducts a search of the local titles office and its own records to verify that the applicant company is the owner and rights holder of the claim. Once that has been verified, the Department of Environment and Natural Resources - Mines and Geosciences issues a license and permit for Mining and Exploration. The license usually takes seven to ten business days to obtain and is valid for one year.
On December 17, 2013, we renewed our License and Permit for Mining and Exploration with the Department of Environment and Natural Resources-Mines and Geosciences for the Lebak Gold Claim in consideration of $1,092.45. The License expires on December 17, 2014 and must be renewed no later than thirty (30) days prior to its expiration. Fees for the license must be paid at the time of the renewal application and usually amount to approximately $1,000 including all agents’ fees.
Except as described above, there are no material terms of the land or mineral rights securing agreements with respect to the Lebak Gold Claim.
The mining license described above is the only permit in order to explore or mine the Lebak Gold Claim.
A map of the Lebak Gold Claim is set forth below:
Royalty Obligations and Other Underlying Agreements
None.
Accessibility, Climate, Local Resources, Infrastructure, and Topography
Access to the Lebak Gold Claim is by all weather asphalt and gravel roads maintained by the government from the town of Lebak and Upi in the northwest. Transport of goods from and into the town is very difficult. There is a rough provincial road to the city of Isulan that may take a day to travel. Shipping from Port of Cotabato to Lebak is by a motorboat, locally called a lantsa, which also takes a day’s travel.
The Lebak Gold Claim is marked with hilly, mountainous ranges. The plains range from level to nearly level while uplands range from nearly level to hilly mountainous and gently rolling slopes.
The climate is characterized as a tropical rainforest climate under the Köppen climate classification system. The municipality of Lebak falls under Type IV classification. Lebak has a mild climate with evenly distributed rainfall through the year. Being located outside of the typhoon path, it does not experience tropical depressions, typhoons and devastating winds. Prevailing winds are light to moderate.
There is currently no infrastructure or equipment located on the Lebak Gold Claim, no power source and no water supply directly to the site. Any exploration activities will require generator power and the diversion of water from either an underground source or from the nearby river.
General Geology and Topography
Deposits of shell and eroded sand formed the basis for the limestone, which makes up most of the Philippines. This limestone was, over the ages, pushed upwards making it possible today to find sea fossils high in the country’s mountains. This pushing up continues today. It is caused by the fact that the Philippine Plate, on which most of the country lies, is slowly diving under the Eurasian Plate of the mainland Asia.
The Philippines are characterized by steep mountains without any substantial forest cover. The highest peaks reach over 1,000 meters. The island of Mindanao is 300 kilometers long and 35 kilometers wide. High, steep mountains, short distances and a lack of forest cover mean that rainwater runs fast to the sea, causing substantial erosion. The island has vast copper, gold and coal reserves which are mined mainly in the central part of the island.
Present Condition of the Property and Current State of Exploration
Our company is preparing to conduct preliminary exploration work on the Lebak Gold Claim.
There has been no previous work on the Lebak Gold Claim including any attempts to drill. Records indicate that no detailed exploration has been completed on the Lebak Gold Claim.
Geological Setting
Regional Geology of the Area
The hilly terrains and the middle level plain contain crystalline hard rocks such as charnockites, granite gneiss, khondalites, leptynites, metamorphic gneisses with detached occurrences of crystalline limestone, iron ore, quartzo-feldspathic veins and basic intrusives such as dolerites and anorthosites. Coastal zones contain sedimentary limestones, clay, laterites, heavy mineral sands and silica sands. The hill ranges are sporadically capped with laterites and bauxites of residual nature. Gypsum and phosphatic nodules occur as sedimentary veins in rocks of the cretaceous age. Gypsum of secondary replacement occurs in some of the areas adjoining the foot hills of the Western Ghats. Lignite occurs as sedimentary beds of tertiary age. The black granite and other hard rocks are amenable for high polish. These granites occur in most of the districts except the coastal area.
Stratigraphy
The principal bedded rocks for the area of the Lebak Gold Claim (and for most of the Philippines for that matter) are Precambrian rocks which are exposed along a wide axial zone of a broad complex.
Gold at the Isulan Gold Mine (which, as stated above, is close in proximity to the Lebak Gold Claim) is generally concentrated within extrusive volcanic rocks in the walls of large volcanic caldera.
Intrusive
In general the volcanoes culminate with effluents of hydrothermal solutions that carry precious metals in the form of naked elements, oxides or sulphides.
These hydrothermal solutions intrude into the older rocks as quartz veins. These rocks may be broken due to mechanical and chemical weathering into sand size particles and carried by streams and channels. Also, gold occurs in these sands as placers.
Recent exploration result for gold occurrence in Isulan, is highly encouraging. A gold belt in sheared gneissic rocks is found in three subparallel auriferous load zones where some blocks having 250 to 500 meters in length and 1.5 to 2 meters in width could be identified as most promising ones.
Structure
Depositional Environment / Geological Setting: Veins form in high-grade, dynamothermal metamorphic environment where metasedimentary belts are invaded by igneous rocks.
Host/Associated Rock Types: Hosted by paragneisses, quartzites, clinopyroxenites, wollastonite-rich rocks, pegmatites. Other associated rocks are charnockites, granitic and intermediate intrusive rocks, quartz-mica schists, granulites, aplites, marbles, amphibolites, magnetite-graphite iron formations and anorthosites.
Tectonic Setting(s): Katazone (relatively deep, high-grade metamorphic environments associated with igneous activity; conditions that are common in the shield areas).
Depositional Environment / Geological Setting: Veins form in high-grade, dynamothermal metamorphic environment where metasedimentary belts are invaded by igneous rocks.
Deposit Types
Deposits are from a few millimeters to over a meter thick in places. Individual veins display a variety of forms, including saddle-, pod- or lens-shaped, tabular or irregular bodies; frequently forming anastomosing or stockwork patterns
Mineralization is located within a large fractured block created where prominent northwest-striking shears intersect the northstriking caldera fault zone. The major lodes cover an area of 2 kilometers and are mostly within 400 meters of the surface. Lodes occur in three main structural settings:
(i)
steeply dipping northweststriking shears;
(ii)
flatdipping (1040) fractures (flatmakes); and
(iii)
shatter blocks between shears.
Most of the gold occurs in tellurides and there are also significant quantities of gold in pyrite.
Mineralization
No mineralization has been reported for the area of the property but structures and shear zones affiliated with mineralization on adjacent properties pass through it.
Exploration
Previous exploration work has not, to the Mr. Martinez’s knowledge, included any attempt to drill the structure on the Lebak Gold Claim. Records indicate that no detailed exploration has been completed on the property.
Property Geology
To the east of the property are intrusives consisting of rocks such as tonalite, monzonite, and gabbro while the property itself is underlain by sediments and volcanics. The intrusives also consist of a large mass of granodiorite towards the western most point of the property.
The area consists of interlayered chert, argillite and massive andesitic to basaltic volcanics. The volcanics are hornfelsed, commonly contain minor pyrite and pyrrhotite.
Drilling Summary
No drilling has been reported on the Lebak Gold Claim.
Sampling Method, Sample Preparation, Data Verification
All the exploration conducted to date has been conducted according to generally accepted exploration procedures with methods and preparation that are consistent with generally accepted exploration practices. No opinion as to the quality of the samples taken can be presented.
No other procedures of quality control were employed and no opinion on their lack is expressed.
Report Recommendations
A two phased exploration program to further delineate the mineralized system currently recognized on Lebak Gold Claim is recommended.
The program would consist of air photo interpretation of the structures, geological mapping, both regionally and detailed on the area of the main showings, geophysical survey using both magnetic and electromagnetic instrumentation in detail over the area of the showings and in a regional reconnaissance survey and geochemical soil sample surveying regionally to identify other areas on the claim that are mineralized and in detail on the known areas of mineralization. The effort of this exploration work is to define and enable interpretation of a follow-up diamond drill program, so that the known mineralization and the whole property can be thoroughly evaluated with the most up to date exploration techniques.
Budget
The proposed budget for the recommended work is PHP810,000 (or approximately$18,630) as follows (in order of priority)
Operations Cost (PHP) Estimated Timeframe
Phase I
Geological Mapping
240,000
3 to 5 weeks from
beginning of operation
Geophysical Surveying
135,000
5 to 6 weeks from
beginning of operation
Phase II
Geochemical surveying and surface sampling (includes
sample collection, assaying and testing) 435,000
3 to 4 months from
beginning of operation
Total of Phases I &II 810,000
We currently do not have the necessary funding to complete both phases above. The management of our company believes that sufficient funding will be available from additional borrowings and private placements to meet its business objectives including anticipated cash needs for working capital, for a reasonable period of time. However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain sufficient funds to continue the development of our business operation, or if obtained, upon terms favorable to us.
Glossary of Mining Terms
Amphibolite
a class of metamorphic rock composed mainly of amphibole with some quartz.
Anorthosite
a phaneritic, intrusive igneous rock characterized by a predominance of plagioclase feldspar.
Aplite
a fine-grained granitic rock composed mostly of quartz and feldspars.
Argillite
a rock derived either from siltstone, claystone or shale that has undergone a somewhat higher degree of induration than is present in those rocks.
Auriferous
refers to gold (AU) or gold equivalents (AUEQ).
Basalt
a hard rock of varied mineral content; volcanic in origin, it makes up much of the Earth’s crust.
Bauxite
the principal ore of aluminium; a clay-like mineral, being a mixture of hydrated oxides and hydroxides.
Caldera
a large circular volcanic depression often originating due to collapse.
Charnockites
any orthopyroxene-bearing granite, composed mainly of quartz, perthite or antiperthite and orthopyroxene (usually hypersthene), as an end-member of the charnockite series .
Chert
massive, dull-colored and opaque quartzite, hornstone, impure chalcedony or other flint-like mineral. By general usage in mineralogy and geology, a chert does not have a conchoidal fracture. In North American archeology the term chert occasionally is still used for various siliceous minerals (including flint) that have a conchoidal fracture; this leads to confusion between the terms flint and chert in some archeology texts.
Clay
a mineral substance made up of small crystals of silica and alumina, that is ductile when moist; the material of pre-fired ceramics; an earth material with ductile qualities.
Clinopyroxene
any pyroxene that has a monoclinic crystal structure.
Coal
a readily combustible black or brownish-black sedimentary rock normally occurring in rock strata in layers or veins called coal beds. The harder forms, such as anthracite coal, can be regarded as metamorphic rock because of later exposure to elevated temperature and pressure. Coal is composed primarily of carbon along with variable quantities of other elements, chiefly sulfur, hydrogen, oxygen and nitrogen.
Copper
a chemical element with the symbol Cu (Latin: cuprum) and atomic number 29. It is a ductile metal with very high thermal and electrical conductivity. Pure copper is rather soft and malleable, and a freshly-exposed surface has a pinkish or peachy color.
Cretaceous age
a geological period and system from 145 to 65 million years ago.
Crystalline
a solid material, whose constituent atoms, molecules, or ions are arranged in an orderly repeating pattern extending in all three spatial dimensions; ie. crystals.
Dolerite
A fine-grained basaltic rock.
Dynamothermal
rock formed at variable temperatures.
Extrusive
the mode of igneous volcanic rock formation in which hot magma from inside the Earth flows out (extrudes) onto the surface as lava or explodes violently into the atmosphere to fall back as pyroclastics or tuff. This is opposed to intrusive rock formation, in which magma does not reach the surface. The main effect of extrusion is that the magma can cool much more quickly in the open air or under seawater, and there is little time for the growth of crystals. Often, a residual portion of the matrix fails to crystallize at all, instead becoming an interstitial natural glass or obsidian.
Fault
a break in the continuity of a body of rock. It is accompanied by a movement on one side of the break or the other so that what were once parts of one continuous rock stratum or vein are now separated. The amount of displacement of the parts may range from a few inches to thousands of feet.
Feldspar
any of a large group of rock-forming minerals that, together, make up about 60% of the earth’s outer crust. The feldspars are all aluminum silicates of the alkali metals sodium, potassium, calcium and barium. Feldspars are the principal constituents of igneous and plutonic rocks.
Flatmake
flat-dipping fractures.
Fold
a curve or bend of a planar structure such as rock stata, bedding planes, foliation, or cleavage.
Foliation
A general term for a planar arrangement of textural or structural features in any type of rock; esp., the planar structure that results from flattening of the constituent grains of a metamorphic rock.
Formation
a distinct layer of sedimentary rock of similar composition.
Gabbro
a group of dark-colored, basic intrusive igneous rocks composed principally of basic plagioclase (commonly labradorite or bytownite) and clinopyroxene (augite), with or without olivine and orthopyroxene; also, any member of that group. It is the approximate intrusive equivalent of basalt. Apatite and magnetite or ilmenite are common accessory minerals.
Gneiss
a foliated rock formed by regional metamorphism, in which bands or lens-shaped strata or bodies of rock of granular minerals alternate with bands or lens-shaped strata or bodies or rock in which minerals having flaky or elongate prismatic habits predominate.
Gold
chemical element with the symbol Au (from Latin: aurum, “shining dawn”) and an atomic number of 79. It has been a highly sought-after precious metal for coinage, jewelry, and other arts since the beginning of recorded history. The metal occurs as nuggets or grains in rocks, in veins and in alluvial deposits. Gold is dense, soft, shiny and the most malleable and ductile pure metal known. Pure gold has a bright yellow color and luster traditionally considered attractive, which it maintains without oxidizing in air or water. Gold is one of the coinage metals and has served as a symbol of wealth and a store of value throughout history. Gold standards have provided a basis for monetary policies. It also has been linked to a variety of symbolisms and ideologies.
Granite
highly felsic igneous plutonic rock, typically light in color; rough plutonic equivalent of rhyolite. Granite is actually quite rare in the U.S.; often the term is applied to any quartz- bearing plutonic rock.
Granodiorite
a group of coarse-grained plutonic rocks intermediate in composition between quartz diorite and quartz monzonite, and potassium feldspar, with biotite, hornblende, or more rarely, pyroxene, as the mafic component.
Granulite
fine to medium-grained metamorphic rocks that have experienced high temperatures of metamorphism, composed mainly of feldspars sometimes associated with quartz and anhydrous ferromagnesian minerals, with granoblastic texture and gneissose to massive structure. They are of particular interest to geologists because many granulites represent samples of the deep continental crust. Some granulites experienced decompression from deep in the Earth to shallower crustal levels at high temperature; others cooled while remaining at depth in the Earth.
Graphite
one of the allotropes of carbon. Unlike diamond (another carbon allotrope), graphite is an electrical conductor, a semimetal, and can be used, for instance, in the electrodes of an arc lamp. Graphite holds the distinction of being the most stable form of carbon under standard conditions.
Gypsum
a mineral consisting of the hydrated calcium sulphate. When calcined, it forms plaster of Paris.
Heavy mineral sands ore deposits a class of ore deposit which is an important source of zirconium, titanium, thorium, tungsten, rare earth elements, the industrial minerals diamond, sapphire, garnet, and occasionally precious metals or gemstones. Heavy mineral sands are placer deposits formed most usually in beach environments by concentration due to the specific gravity of the mineral grains. It is equally likely that some concentrations of heavy minerals (aside from the usual gold placers) exist within streambeds, but most are of a low grade and are relatively small.
Hydrothermal
creation of rock with fluid at high temperatures.
Igneous
resulting from, or produced by, the action of great heat; with rocks, it could also mean formed from lava/magma; granite and basalt are igneous rocks.
Intrusions
masses of igneous rock that, while molten, were forced into other rocks.
Iron
chemical element with the symbol Fe (Latin: ferrum) and atomic number 26. It is a metal in the first transition series. Like other group 8 elements, it exists in a wide range of oxidation states. Iron and iron alloys (steels) are by far the most common metals and the most common ferromagnetic materials in everyday use. Fresh iron surfaces appear lustrous silvery-gray, but oxidize in air. Iron is the most common element in the earth, albeit the fourth most common one in the earth’s crust.
Khondalite
a granulite-facies metasedimentary rock.
Laterite
a red hard or gravel-like soil or subsoil formed in the tropics that has been leached of soluble minerals leaving insoluble iron and aluminium oxides and hydroxides; used to make bricks and roads.
Leptynite
a granulite.
Lignite
a low-grade, brownish-black coal.
Limestone
An abundant rock of marine and fresh-water sediments; primarily composed of calcite (calcium carbonate); it occurs in a variety of forms, both crystalline and amorphous.
Marble
a non foliated metamorphic rock composed mostly of calcite, a crystalline form of calcium carbonate. It is formed from carbonate rocks, often limestone. It is extensively used for sculpture and as a building material.
Magnetite
a ferrimagnetic mineral with chemical formula Fe3O 4, one of several iron oxides and a member of the spinel group.
Metamorphic
the mineralogical, chemical, and structural adjustment of solid rocks to physical and chemical conditions that have generally been imposed at depth below the surface zones of weathering and cementation, and that differ from the conditions under which the rocks in question originated.
Metasediment
a metamorphosed sedimentary rock.
Mica
the name of a group of hydrous aluminosilicate minerals characterized by highly perfect cleavage, so that they readily separate into very thin leaves, more or less elastic.
Monzonite
an intermediate igneous intrusive rock composed of approximately equal amounts of sodic to intermediate plagioclase and orthoclase feldspars with minor amounts of hornblende, biotite and other minerals.
Ore
the natural occurring mineral from which a mineral or minerals of economic value can be extracted profitable or to satisfy social or political objectives.
Oxides
a chemical compound containing at least one oxygen atom as well as at least one other element. Most of the Earth’s crust consists of oxides. Oxides result when elements are oxidized by oxygen in air.
Paragneisses
a gneiss from sedimentary rock.
Pegmatite
a very coarse-grained, intrusive igneous rock composed of interlocking grains usually larger than 2.5 cm in size; such rocks are referred to as pegmatitic. Most pegmatites are composed of quartz, feldspar and mica; in essence a granite. Rarer intermediate composition and mafic pegmatites containing amphibole, Ca-plagioclase feldspar, pyroxene and other minerals are known, found in recrystallised zones and apophyses associated with large layered intrusions.
Phosphatic nodules
black to brown, rounded mass, variable in size from a few millimeters to 30 or more centimeters. Usually consists of coprolites, corals, shells, and bones, more or less enveloped in crusts of collophane. Found in many horizons of marine origin. Also covering the ocean floors at manylocations around the world.
Placers
an accumulation of valuable minerals formed by deposition of dense mineral phases in a trap site.
Precious metals
a rare, naturally occurring metallic chemical element of high economic value, which is not radioactive (excluding natural polonium, radium, actinium and protactinium). Chemically, the precious metals are less reactive than most elements, have high lustre, are softer or more ductile, and have higher melting points than other metals. Historically, precious metals were important as currency, but are now regarded mainly as investment and industrial commodities. Gold, silver, platinum, and palladium each have an ISO 4217 currency code.
Production
a “production stage” project is actively engaged in the process of extraction and beneficiation of mineral reserves to produce a marketable metal or mineral product.
Pyrite
a yellow iron sulphide mineral of little value and referred to as “fool’s gold”.
Pyrrhotite
a bronze-colored, magnetic iron sulphide mineral.
Quartz
a common rock-forming mineral consisting of silicon and oxygen.
Quartzite
a hard metamorphic rock which was originally sandstone. Sandstone is converted into quartzite through heating and pressure usually related to tectonic compression within orogenic belts. Pure quartzite is usually white to grey, though quartzites often occur in various shades of pink and red due to varying amounts of iron oxide. Other colors, such as yellow and orange, are due to other mineral impurities.
Reserve
the term “reserve” refers to that part of a mineral deposit which could be economically and legally extracted or produced at the time of the reserve determination. Reserves must be supported by a feasibility study done to bankable standards that demonstrates the economic extraction. (“Bankable standards” implies that the confidence attached to the costs and achievements developed in the study is sufficient for the project to be eligible for external debt financing.) A reserve includes adjustments to the in-situ tons and grade to include diluting materials and allowances for losses that might occur when the material is mined.
Schist
any crystalline rock having a foliated structure and hence admitting of ready division into slabs or slates.
Shear
a form of strain resulting from stresses that cause or tend to cause contiguous parts of a body of rock to slide relatively to each other in a direction parallel to their plane of contact.
Silica
the chemical compound silicon dioxide, also known as silica (from the Latin silex), is an oxide of silicon with a chemical formula of SiO 2 and has been known for its hardness since antiquity. Silica is most commonly found in nature as sand or quartz, as well as in the cell walls of diatoms. Silica is the most abundant mineral in the Earth’s crust.
Stockwork
a complex system of structurally controlled or randomly oriented veins. Stockworks are common in many ore deposit types and especially notable in greisens. They are also referred to as stringer zones.
Stratum
one of several parallel horizontal layers of material arranged one on top of another. A layer of sedimentary rock having approximately the same composition throughout
Sulphides
an anion of sulfur in its lowest oxidation number of −2. Sulfide is also a slightly archaic term for thioethers, a common type of organosulfur compound that are well known for their bad odors.
Telluride
a compound of a metal with tellurium; metal salts of tellurane. Any organic compound of general formula R 2 Te (R not = H), the tellurium analogues of ethers. Another name for sylvanite.
Tonalite
an igneous, plutonic (intrusive) rock, of felsic composition, with phaneritic texture. Feldspar is present as plagioclase (typically oligoclase or andesine) with 10% or less alkali feldspar. Quartz is present as more than 20% of the rock. Amphiboles and pyroxenes are common accessory minerals.
Vein
a thin, sheet-like body of hydrothermal mineralization, principally quartz.
Wollastonite
a calcium inosilicate mineral (CaSiO3) that may contain small amounts of iron, magnesium, and manganese substituting for calcium. It is usually white. It forms when impure limestone or dolostone is subjected to high temperature and pressure sometimes in the presence of silica-bearing fluids as in skarns or contact metamorphic rocks. Associated minerals include garnets, vesuvianite, diopside, tremolite, epidote, plagioclase feldspar, pyroxene and calcite. It is named after the English chemist and mineralogist William Hyde Wollaston (1766-1828).
Item 3.