Item 2. Properties
Property Overview
Our properties are primarily located in Washington and Greene Counties, Pennsylvania, and Belmont County, Ohio. The following illustrations depict the acreage position of our Exploration and Production segment and the midstream assets of our Midstream segment, each as of December 31, 2014.
The majority of our properties are located on or under on or under private properties owned in fee, held by lease or occupied under perpetual easements or other rights acquired without warranty of underlying land titles.
Exploration and Production Segment Properties
All of the current and planned operations of our Exploration and Production segment are located in what we believe to be the core of the Marcellus Shale in southwestern Pennsylvania and of the Utica Shale in eastern Ohio, each of which are located in the Appalachian Basin. In addition, we have operations in the Upper Devonian Shale on our Pennsylvania acreage. The properties of our Exploration and Production segment consist of interests in developed and undeveloped leases that entitle us to drill for and produce natural gas, NGLs and crude oil. Our interests are mostly in the form of working interests and, to a lesser extent, royalty and overriding royalty interests.
The table below summarizes data for our exploration and production operations for the year ended December 31, 2014.
(1)
Marcellus shale production for the years ended December 31, 2013 and December 31, 2012 was 22,995 MMcfe and 8,769 MMcfe, respectively.
Reserve Data
The information with respect to our estimated reserves presented below has been prepared in accordance with the rules and regulations of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”).
Reserves Presentation
Our estimated proved reserves and PV-10 as of December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012 are based on evaluations prepared by our independent reserve engineers, NSAI. Copies of the summary reports of NSAI with respect to our reserves as of December 31, 2014 are filed as exhibits to this Annual Report. See “-Preparation of Reserve Estimates” for definitions of proved reserves and the technologies and economic data used in their estimation.
The following table summarizes our historical estimated proved reserves and related PV-10 at December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012.
(1)
Our historical estimated proved reserves, PV-10 and standardized measure were determined using a 12-month average price for natural gas. The prices used in our reserve report yield weighted average wellhead prices, which are based on index prices and adjusted for energy content, transportation fees and regional price differentials. The index prices and the equivalent wellhead prices are shown in the table below.
(i)
Amounts presented in the table exclude amounts attributable to our Marcellus joint venture for periods prior to the completion of our IPO in January 2014. In connection with our IPO, we acquired the remaining 50% interest in our Marcellus joint venture from our j
oint venture partner, and as such amounts shown as of December 31, 2014 include 100% of the amounts attributable to our Marcellus joint venture.
(ii)
Index prices of our natural gas per MMBtu were $3.67 and $2.76 for our 50% equity investment in our Marcellus joint venture for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively.
(iii)
Weighted average wellhead prices of our natural gas per Mcfe were $3.90 and $2.84 for our 50% equity investment in our Marcellus joint venture for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively.
(2)
Amounts presented in the table exclude amounts attributable to our Marcellus joint venture for periods prior to the completion of our IPO in January 2014. In connection with our IPO, we acquired the remaining 50% interest in our Marcellus joint venture from our joint venture partner, and as such amounts shown as of December 31, 2014 include 100% of the amounts attributable to our Marcellus joint venture. The table below summarizes historical estimated proved reserves and related PV-10 at December 31, 2013 and 2012 for our 50% interest in the Marcellus joint venture:
(3)
PV-10 is a non-GAAP financial measure and generally differs from standardized measure, the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure, because it does not include the effects of income taxes on future net revenues. Our pre-tax PV-10 at December 31, 2014 was $1.7 billion. We estimate that our historical standardized measure as of December 31, 2014, is approximately $1.3 billion as adjusted to give effect to the present value of approximately $436 million of future income taxes. However, the historical PV-10s and standardized measures of us and our Marcellus joint venture were equivalent, as of December 31, 2013 and 2012, because our accounting predecessor, Rice Drilling B, and our Marcellus joint venture were not subject to entity level taxation. Accordingly, no provision for federal or state corporate income taxes provided for such periods because taxable income was passed through to Rice Drilling B’s and our Marcellus joint venture’s respective equity holders. However, in connection with the closing of our IPO, as a result of our corporate reorganization, Rice Energy Inc. became the sole member of Rice Drilling B. Rice Energy Inc. is a corporation subject to federal income tax and, as such, our future income taxes are dependent upon our future taxable income. We estimate that our historical standardized measure and the historical standardized measure for our Marcellus joint venture as of December 31, 2013, would have been approximately $269 million and $175 million, respectively, as adjusted to give effect to the present value of approximately $148 million and $117 million, respectively, of future income taxes as a result of our being treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes. Neither PV-10 nor standardized measure represents an estimate of the fair market value of our natural gas properties. We and others in the industry use PV-10 as a measure to compare the relative size and value of proved reserves held by companies without regard to the specific tax characteristics of such entities.
Proved Undeveloped Reserves
Proved undeveloped reserves are included in the previous table of total proved reserves. The following table summarizes the changes in the estimated historical proved undeveloped reserves of us during 2014, 2013 and 2012 (in MMcfe):
(1)
Amounts presented in the table above exclude amounts attributable to our Marcellus joint venture for periods prior to the completion of our IPO in January 2014. In connection with our IPO, we acquired the remaining 50% interest in our Marcellus joint venture from our joint venture partner, and as such the acquisition is reflected in the table above. The proved undeveloped reserves balance as of December 31, 2014, includes 100% of the amounts attributable to our Marcellus joint venture. The table below summarizes the changes in the estimated historical proved undeveloped reserves during 2013 and 2012 for our 50% interest in the Marcellus joint venture:
During 2014, extensions, discoveries, and other additions of 417,604 MMcfe of proved undeveloped reserves were added through the drillbit in the Marcellus Shale. We incurred cumulative costs of approximately $88.1 million, of which $63.4 million was incurred in 2014, to convert 97,858 MMcfe of proved undeveloped reserves to proved developed reserves in 2014. Estimated future development costs relating to the development of our proved undeveloped reserves as of December 31, 2014 are approximately $585.3 million over the next five years, which we expect to finance through cash flow from operations, borrowings under our Senior Secured Revolving Credit Facility and other sources of capital financing. Our drilling programs are focused on proving our undeveloped leasehold acreage through delineation drilling. While we will continue to drill leasehold delineation wells and build on our current leasehold position, we will also focus on drilling our proved undeveloped reserves. Based on our reserve report as of December 31, 2014, we had 62 net drilling locations in the Marcellus Shale associated with proved undeveloped reserves and 10 net drilling locations in the Marcellus Shale associated with proved developed not producing reserves, and we had four net drilling locations in the Utica Shale associated with proved undeveloped reserves and one net drilling location in the Utica Shale associated with proved developed not producing reserves. All of our proved undeveloped reserves are expected to be developed within five years of their initial booking date. See “Item 1A. Risk Factors-Risks Related to Our Business-The development of our estimated proved undeveloped reserves may take longer and may require higher levels of capital expenditures than we anticipate. Therefore, our estimated proved undeveloped reserves may not be ultimately developed or produced.”
Preparation of Reserve Estimates
Our reserve estimates as of December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012 included in this Annual Report were based on evaluations prepared by the independent petroleum engineering firm of NSAI in accordance with Standards Pertaining to the Estimating and Auditing of Oil and Gas Reserves Information promulgated by the Society of Petroleum Evaluation Engineers and definitions and guidelines established by the SEC. Our independent reserve engineers were selected for their historical experience and geographic expertise in engineering unconventional resources.
Proved reserves are reserves which, by analysis of geoscience and engineering data, can be estimated with reasonable certainty to be economically producible from a given date forward from known reservoirs under existing economic conditions, operating methods and government regulations prior to the time at which contracts providing the right to operate expires, unless evidence indicates that renewal is reasonably certain. The term “reasonable certainty” implies a high degree of confidence that the quantities of oil or natural gas actually recovered will equal or exceed the estimate. The technical and economic data used in the estimation of our proved reserves include, but are not limited to, well logs, geologic maps, well-test data, production data (including flow rates), well data (including lateral lengths), historical price and cost information, and property ownership interests. Our independent reserve engineers use this technical data, together with standard engineering and geoscience methods, or a combination of methods, including performance analysis, volumetric analysis and analogy. The proved developed reserves and EURs per well are estimated using performance analysis and volumetric analysis. The estimates of the proved developed reserves and EURs for each developed well are used to estimate the proved undeveloped reserves for each proved undeveloped location (utilizing type curves, statistical analysis, and analogy). Proved undeveloped locations that are more than one offset from a proved developed well utilized reliable technologies to confirm reasonable certainty. The reliable technologies that were utilized in estimating these reserves include log data, performance data, log cross sections, seismic data, core data, and statistical analysis.
Internal Controls
We maintain an internal staff of petroleum engineers and geoscience professionals who work closely with our independent reserve engineers to ensure the integrity, accuracy and timeliness of data furnished to NSAI in their reserves estimation process. Ryan I. Kanto, our Vice President of Asset Performance, is the technical person primarily responsible for overseeing the preparation of our reserve estimates. He has substantial industry experience with positions of increasing responsibility in engineering and evaluations. Throughout each fiscal year, our technical team meets with representatives of our independent reserve engineers to review properties and discuss methods and assumptions used in preparation of the proved reserves estimates. While we have no formal committee specifically designated to review reserves reporting and the reserves estimation process, a preliminary copy of the reserve report is reviewed by our senior management with representatives of our independent reserve engineers and internal technical staff.
Qualifications of Responsible Technical Persons
Ryan I. Kanto joined Rice Energy in June 2011 and serves as our Vice President of Asset Performance. Prior to Rice Energy, Mr. Kanto worked at EnCana Oil & Gas (USA) Inc. from June 2007 to May 2011. During this time he served as a facilities engineer in the Deep Bossier from June 2007 to January 2008, a reservoir engineer in the Barnett Shale until February 2009, and completion engineer in the Haynesville Shale until his departure. Mr. Kanto has bachelors degrees in Chemical Engineering and Engineering Management from the University of Arizona and has significant experience in unconventional shale gas plays.
Our proved reserve estimates shown herein at December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012 and the proved reserve estimates shown herein for our Marcellus joint venture have been independently prepared by NSAI, a worldwide leader of petroleum property analysis for industry and financial organizations and government agencies. NSAI was founded in 1961 and performs consulting petroleum engineering services under the Texas Board of Professional Engineers Registration No.. Within NSAI, the technical persons primarily responsible for preparing the estimates set forth in the NSAI letters, each of which is filed as an exhibit to this Annual Report, was Steven W. Jansen and David E. Nice. Mr. Jansen, a Licensed Professional Engineer in the State of Texas, has been practicing consulting petroleum engineering at NSAI since 2011 and has over four years of prior industry experience. Mr. Nice, a Licensed Professional Geoscientist in the State of Texas, has been practicing consulting petroleum geoscience at NSAI since 1998 and has over 13 years of prior industry experience. Messrs. Jansen and Nice meet or exceed the education, training and experience requirements set forth in the Standards Pertaining to the Estimating and Auditing of Oil and Gas Reserves Information promulgated by the Society of Petroleum Engineers; they are proficient in judiciously applying industry standard practices to engineering and geoscience evaluations as well as applying SEC and other industry reserve definitions and guidelines.
Determination of Drilling Locations
Net undeveloped locations are calculated by taking our total net acreage and multiplying such amount by a risking factor which is then divided by our expected well spacing. We then subtract net producing wells to arrive at undeveloped net drilling locations.
•
Undeveloped Net Marcellus Locations - We assume these locations have 7,000 foot laterals and 750 foot spacing between wells which yields approximately 121 acre spacing. In the Marcellus, we apply a 20% risking factor to our net acreage to account for inefficient unitization and the risk associated with our inability to force pool in Pennsylvania. As of December 31, 2014, we had approximately 64,000 net acres in the Marcellus which results in 356 undeveloped net locations.
•
Undeveloped Net Greene County Locations - We assume these locations have 7,000 foot laterals and 750 foot spacing between wells which yields approximately 121 acre spacing. In Greene County, we apply a 20% risking factor to our net acreage to account for inefficient unitization and the risk associated with our inability to force pool in Pennsylvania. As of December 31, 2014, we had approximately 22,000 net acres in Greene County which results in 139 undeveloped net locations.
•
Undeveloped Net Upper Devonian Locations - We assume these locations have 7,000 foot laterals and 1,000 foot spacing between wells which yields approximately 161 acre spacing. In the Upper Devonian, we apply a 20% risking factor to our net acreage to account for inefficient unitization and the risk associated with our inability to force pool in Pennsylvania. As of December 31, 2014, we had approximately 77,000 net acres prospective for the Upper Devonian which results in 382 undeveloped net locations.
•
Undeveloped Net Utica Locations - We assume these locations have 8,000 foot laterals and 750 foot spacing between wells which yields approximately 138 acre spacing. In the Utica, we apply a 10% risking factor to our net acreage to account for inefficient unitization. As of December 31, 2014, we had approximately 55,000 net acres prospective for the Utica in Ohio which results in 356 undeveloped net locations.
Production, Revenues and Price History
Natural gas, NGLs, and oil are commodities; therefore, the price that we receive for our production is largely a function of market supply and demand. While demand for natural gas in the United States has increased dramatically since 2000, natural gas and NGL supplies have also increased significantly as a result of horizontal drilling and fracture stimulation technologies which have been used to find and recover large amounts of oil and natural gas from various shale formations throughout the United States. Demand is impacted by general economic conditions, weather and other seasonal conditions. Over or under supply of natural gas can result in substantial price volatility. Historically, commodity prices have been volatile, and we expect that volatility to continue in the future. A substantial or extended decline in natural gas prices or poor drilling results could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, cash flows, quantities of natural gas reserves that may be economically produced and our ability to access capital markets. See “Item 1A. Risk Factors-Risks Related to Our Business-Natural gas, NGL and oil prices are volatile. A substantial or extended decline in commodity prices may adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations and our ability to meet our capital expenditure obligations and financial commitments.”
The following table sets forth information regarding production, revenues and realized prices and production costs on a historical basis for the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012.
(1)
Amounts presented in the table above exclude amounts attributable to our Marcellus joint venture for periods prior to the completion of our IPO in January 2014. In connection with our IPO, we acquired the remaining 50% interest in our Marcellus joint venture from our joint venture partner, and as such amounts shown for the year ended December 31, 2014 include 100% of the amounts attributable to our Marcellus joint venture from the date of acquisition forward and amounts for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 do not include amounts attributable to our Marcellus joint venture. The table below sets forth information regarding production, revenues and realized prices and production costs (excluding the impact of production taxes and impact fees) on a historical basis for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 for our 50% equity investment in our Marcellus joint venture:
(2)
The effect of hedges includes realized gains and losses on commodity derivative transactions.
(3)
Average costs per Mcfe for the year ended December 31, 2014 as presented reflects cost attributable to our Exploration and Production segment. On a consolidated basis, the applicable costs per Mcfe are as follows: lease operating - $0.26; gathering, compression and transportation - $0.41; production taxes and impact fees - $0.05; general and administrative - $0.57; and depletion, depreciation and amortization - $1.60.
Productive Wells
As of December 31, 2014, we had a total of 85 gross (78 net) producing wells in the Marcellus Shale, a total of three net producing wells in the Upper Devonian Shale, and a total of 23 gross (7 net) producing wells in the Utica Shale.
Acreage
The following table sets forth certain information regarding the total developed and undeveloped acreage in which we owned an interest as of December 31, 2014. Approximately 47% of our Marcellus acreage and 2% of our Utica acreage was held by production at December 31, 2014. Acreage related to royalty, overriding royalty and other similar interests is excluded from this table.
Undeveloped Acreage Expirations
The following table sets forth the number of total undeveloped acres as of December 31, 2014 that will expire in 2015, 2016, 2017, 2018 and 2019 and thereafter unless production is established within the spacing units covering the acreage prior to the expiration dates or unless such leasehold rights are extended or renewed. We have not attributed any PUD reserves to acreage for which the expiration date precedes the scheduled date for PUD drilling. In addition, we do not anticipate material delay rental or lease extension payments in connection with such acreage.
Operated Drilling Activity
The following table describes our drilling activity on our acreage during the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012:
We drilled four exploratory wells during 2014 and one exploratory well in 2013. We did not drill any exploratory wells during 2012.
Title to Properties
In the course of acquiring the rights to develop oil and natural gas, it is standard procedure for us and the lessor to execute a lease agreement with payment subject to title verification. In most cases, we incur the expense of retaining lawyers to verify the rightful owners of the oil and gas interests prior to payment of such lease bonus to the lessor. There is no certainty, however, that a lessor has valid title to its lease’s oil and gas interests. In those cases, such leases are generally voided and payment is not remitted to the lessor. As such, title failures may result in fewer net acres to us. As is customary in the industry, in the case of undeveloped properties, often cursory investigation of record title is made at the time of lease acquisition. Investigations are made before the consummation of an acquisition of producing properties and before commencement of drilling operations on undeveloped properties. Individual properties may be subject to burdens that we believe do not materially interfere with the use or affect the value of the properties. Burdens on properties may include:
•
customary royalty interests;
•
liens incident to operating agreements and for current taxes;
•
obligations or duties under applicable laws;
•
development obligations under natural gas leases; or
•
net profits interests.
Midstream Segment Properties
The gathering, compression and fresh water distribution systems of our Midstream segment are located in what we believe to be the core of the Marcellus Shale in southwestern Pennsylvania and of the Utica Shale in eastern Ohio, each of which are located in the Appalachian Basin. As of December 31, 2014, the RMP owned our gas gathering systems in each of Washington and Greene Counties, Pennsylvania, and we owned our gathering system in Belmont County, Ohio and our fresh water distribution systems in Washington and Greene Counties, Pennsylvania, and Belmont County, Ohio.
RMP’s Pennsylvania Gathering Systems
RMP has secured dedications from us under a 15 year, fixed-fee contract for gathering and compression services covering (i) approximately 65,000 gross acres of our acreage position as of December 31, 2014 in Washington and Greene Counties, Pennsylvania, and (ii) any future acreage we acquire within these counties, other than in select areas subject to pre-existing third-party dedications and subject to the terms of contract. In addition, RMP has secured dedications from third-party customers under fixed-fee contracts for gathering and compression services in Washington County, Pennsylvania with respect to approximately 21,000 of their existing gross acres, and any future acreage they may acquire within areas of mutual interest of approximately 66,000 acres.
Washington County System
As of December 31, 2014, our Washington County gathering system consists of a network of 71 miles of 6- to 30-inch gathering pipelines and 7,320 horsepower of compression used to compress natural gas for our Exploration and Production segment and third-party producers. As of December 31, 2014, this system was connected to all of our 48 horizontal Marcellus producing wells in Washington County.
We began constructing the Washington County gathering system in January 2010, in connection with commencing horizontal development of our Marcellus Shale acreage. As of December 31, 2014, our Washington County gathering system has approximately 2.8 MMDth/d of gathering capacity with connections to Dominion, TCO, EQT and TETCO. During 2015, we expect to complete construction of the Washington County gathering system with the addition of approximately 21 miles of high pressure pipeline in central Washington County. Upon completion of construction, we expect that the Washington County gathering system will have approximately 3.3 MMDth/d of capacity.
Greene County System
As of December 31, 2014, our Greene County gathering system consists of a network of 10 miles of 6- to 16-inch gathering pipelines that collects natural gas from us and has a capacity of approximately 420 MDth/d. In addition, as of December 31, 2014, this system was connected to 30 horizontal Marcellus producing wells in Greene County, excluding wells acquired with the Greene County acreage acquisition. During 2015, we expect to expand the Greene County gathering system by constructing an additional 9 miles of high pressure pipeline that will result in aggregate capacity of approximately 840 MDth/d upon completion of construction.
Our Ohio Gathering System
We are constructing an aggregate of 50 miles of high-pressure gas gathering pipeline with capacity of 2.6 MMDth/d in the core of the Utica Shale in Belmont County, Ohio. Average daily throughput on our Ohio gathering system for January 2015 was 100 MDth/d. We expect this system will be substantially completed in mid to late 2015 and will service approximately 37,000 and 20,000 net acres of our current position and Gulfport’s current position, respectively, in Belmont County, Ohio. In July 2014, we entered into a letter of intent with Gulfport pursuant to which Gulfport is expected to dedicate its production from the aforementioned acreage. Also in July 2014, we entered into a letter of intent with MarkWest Energy Partners, LP, or MarkWest, pursuant to which MarkWest will construct gas gathering facilities to gather our Utica Shale production from certain dedicated areas in Ohio, including portions of Belmont County, which production we anticipate will be wet gas and therefore will require processing. Both of these letters of intent are non-binding and the execution of definitive agreements with respect thereto is subject to, among other things, the ability of the applicable parties to reach agreement on commercial and other business terms.
Our Fresh Water Distribution Systems
As of December 31, 2014, each of our fresh water distribution systems in Washington and Greene Counties, Pennsylvania, and Belmont County, Ohio are under various stages of construction and are expected to be completed in mid to late 2015.
•
Pennsylvania Water Systems. We are expanding two independent fresh water distribution systems that, upon completion, will have direct access to 9.2 MMGPD of fresh water from the Monongahela River and several other regional water sources for distribution to our Exploration and Production segment’s well completion operations in the Marcellus Shale.
•
Ohio Water System. We are constructing a fresh water distribution system that, upon completion, will have direct access to 16.7 MMGPD of fresh water from the Ohio River and several other regional sources for distribution to our Exploration and Production segment’s well completion operations.
These systems consist of a combination of permanent buried pipelines, portable surface pipelines and fresh water impoundments, as well as pumping stations to transport the fresh water throughout the pipeline system. Because hydraulic fracturing requires substantial volumes of fresh water, these fresh water distribution services are utilized in connection with completion activities.
Title to Properties
The real property tied to our midstream operations is classified into two categories: (1) parcels that we own in fee and (2) parcels in which our interest derives from leases, easements, rights-of-way, permits or licenses from landowners or governmental authorities, permitting the use of such land for our operations. Portions of the land on which our pipelines and major facilities are located are owned by us in fee title, and we believe that we have satisfactory title to these lands. The remainder of the land on which our pipelines and major facilities are located are held by us pursuant to surface leases between us, as lessee, and the fee owner of the lands, as lessors. We have leased or owned these lands without any material challenge known to us relating to the title to the land upon which the assets are located, and we believe that we have satisfactory leasehold estates or fee ownership of such lands. We have no knowledge of any challenge to the underlying fee title of any material lease, easement, right-of-way, permit or license held by us or to our title to any material lease, easement, right-of-way, permit or lease, and we believe that we have satisfactory title to all of its material leases, easements, rights-of-way, permits and licenses.
Item 3.