ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
Our properties as of December 31, 2017 include working interests in approximately 142,000 gross and 92,000 net surface acres located in the Permian Basin primarily in the Texas counties of Midland, Martin, Andrews, Ector, Glasscock, Loving and Winkler.
The Permian Basin consists of mature, legacy onshore oil and liquids-rich natural gas reservoirs that span approximately 86,000 square miles in West Texas and New Mexico. It is composed of three sub basins, the Delaware Basin, the Central Basin Platform and the Midland Basin. Both the Midland Basin and the Delaware Basin are characterized by extensive operating histories, favorable operating environments, available infrastructure and a well-developed network of oilfield service providers, long reserve lives, multiple producing horizons, and a large number of operators. The first commercial wells were drilled in both basins during the 1920’s. Advances in geologic understanding and production technology have highlighted the resource potential of these basins unconventional reservoirs that are productive after hydraulic-fracture stimulation. Technological advances in 3-D seismic imagery have demonstrated the larger geographic extent of the unconventional formations than originally estimated and, due to multiple stacked pay zones, significantly more oil in place as compared to other major U.S. shale oil plays. In recent years, drilling activity in the Permian Basin has shown a growing trend towards horizontal and directional drilling over vertical drilling.
The vast majority of our acreage is located on large, contiguous acreage blocks in the core of the Midland Basin and Delaware Basin. The Midland Basin properties are primarily in the adjacent Texas counties of Midland, Martin, Andrews, Ector, and Glasscock. The Delaware Basin properties are located in the adjacent Texas counties of Loving and Winkler. We believe that our properties are prospective for oil and liquids-rich natural gas from multiple producing stratigraphic horizons, which we refer to as stacked pay zones.
As of December 31, 2017, we had identified 6,970 gross horizontal drilling locations. We define identified drilling locations as locations specifically identified by management as an estimation of our multi-year drilling activities based on evaluation of applicable geologic and engineering data. The availability of local infrastructure, drilling support assets and other factors as management may deem relevant, such as easement restrictions and state and local regulations, are considered in determining such locations. The drilling locations on which we actually drill wells will ultimately depend upon the availability of capital, regulatory approvals, seasonal restrictions, oil and natural gas prices, costs, actual drilling results, access to offtake systems, lease expirations, availability of service providers and materials and other factors.
Our contiguous acreage positions allow us to drill longer laterals, maximize our resource recovery on a per-section basis and increase our returns. In addition, our contiguous acreage positions allow us the flexibility to adjust our drilling and completion techniques, primarily the length of our horizontal laterals, in order to maximize our well results, drilling costs and returns. Our contiguous acreage positions and owning leases covering virtually all of the depths of our properties allow us to target multiple horizontal zones underneath our surface acreage. Our total Effective Horizontal Acreage is approximately 544,000 net acres when considering the multiple zones under the surface acreage in our core areas, which we believe more accurately conveys the extent of our horizontal drilling opportunities in our target zones.
Our estimated proved reserves and future net cash flows were prepared by our internal engineers and audited by Netherland, Sewell & Associates, Inc. (“Netherland Sewell”), our independent petroleum engineering firm, as of December 31, 2017. Our net proved reserves as of December 31, 2017 were approximately 375.9 MMBoe (70% oil, 17% NGLs and 13% natural gas), of which 42% were classified as PDP. The estimated proved reserves are generally characterized as long-lived, with predictable production profiles.
Production Status. For the year ended December 31, 2017, our average net daily production was 55,255 Boe/d (approximately 72% oil, 16% NGLs and 12% natural gas), and we operated and produced from 266 horizontal and 409 vertical wells. For the year ended December 31, 2016, our average net daily production was 29,161 Boe/d (approximately 73% oil, 16% NGLs and 11% natural gas).
Facilities. We strive to develop the necessary infrastructure to lower our costs and support our drilling schedule and production growth. We accomplish this goal through a combination of developing a portion of our own midstream assets as well as through contractual arrangements with third party service providers. Our facilities located on our properties are
generally in close proximity to our well locations and include storage tank batteries, oil/gas/water separation equipment and pumping units.
In addition to standard well site surface equipment, we have invested our capital in building gathering lines and water infrastructure, including water pipelines, water source wells and water disposal wells to support our exploration and development activities. To secure adequate water supplies for our Midland Basin operations, we have drilled water source wells into the Santa Rosa formation that complement our purchase of fresh water. For our Delaware Basin operations, we source water from an aquifer that is adjacent to our operating area. We also operate saltwater disposal wells on our properties, including disposal wells purchased in the first quarter of 2017 that support our development activities in the Delaware Basin. We have a minority investment in a small private midstream company that engages in the building and operation of water infrastructure on our properties, and for third parties.
Oil and Natural Gas Data
Proved Reserves
Evaluation and Review of Proved Reserves. Our proved reserve estimates and future net cash flows were prepared by our internal engineers and audited by Netherland Sewell, our independent petroleum engineering firm, as of December 31, 2017 and December 31, 2015. Our estimated proved reserves and future net cash flows were prepared by Netherland Sewell as of December 31, 2016. The technical person primarily responsible for preparing or auditing our proved reserve estimates set forth in the Netherland Sewell letter meets the requirements with regard to qualifications, independence, objectivity and confidentiality set forth in the Standards Pertaining to the Estimating and Auditing of Oil and Gas Reserves Information promulgated by the Society of Petroleum Engineers. Netherland Sewell does not own an interest in any of our properties, nor is it employed by us on a contingent basis. A copy of the independent petroleum engineering firm’s proved reserve audit letter as of December 31, 2017 is included as an exhibit to this Report.
We maintain an internal staff of petroleum engineers and geoscience professionals who worked closely with our independent reserve engineers to ensure the integrity, accuracy and timeliness of the data used to calculate our proved reserves relating to our assets in the Permian Basin. Our internal technical team members meet with our independent reserve engineers periodically during the period covered by the proved reserve report to discuss the assumptions and methods used in the proved reserve estimation process. We provide historical information to Netherland Sewell for our properties, such as ownership interest, oil, NGLs and natural gas production, well test data, commodity prices and operating and development costs. Our Vice President of Reservoir Engineering is primarily responsible for overseeing the preparation of all of our reserve estimates. He is a petroleum engineer with over 14 years of reservoir and operations experience, and our geoscience staff has an average of approximately 20 years of energy industry experience per person.
The preparation of our proved reserve estimates is completed in accordance with our internal control procedures. These procedures, which are intended to ensure reliability of reserve estimations, include the following:
•
review and verification of historical production data, which data is based on actual production as reported by us;
•
preparation of reserve estimates by our Vice President of Reservoir Engineering or under his direct supervision;
•
review by our Chief Executive Officer of all of our reported proved reserves at the close of each quarter, including the review of all significant reserve changes and all new PUDs additions;
•
direct reporting responsibilities by our Vice President of Reservoir Engineering to our Chief Operating Officer; and
•
verification of property ownership by our land department.
Estimation of Proved Reserves. Under SEC rules, proved reserves are those quantities of oil and natural gas, which, by analysis of geoscience and engineering data, can be estimated with reasonable certainty to be economically producible-from a given date forward, from known reservoirs and under existing economic conditions, operating methods and government regulations-prior to the time at which contracts providing the right to operate expire, unless evidence indicates that renewal is reasonably certain, regardless of whether deterministic or probabilistic methods are used for the estimation. If deterministic methods are used, the SEC has defined reasonable certainty for proved reserves as a “high degree of confidence that the quantities will be recovered.” All of our proved reserves as of December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015 were estimated using a deterministic method. The estimation of reserves involves two distinct determinations. The first determination results in the estimation of the quantities of recoverable oil, NGLs and natural gas and the second determination results in the estimation of the uncertainty associated with those estimated quantities in accordance with the definitions established under SEC rules. The process of estimating the quantities of recoverable oil, NGLs and natural gas reserves relies on the use of certain generally accepted analytical procedures. These analytical procedures fall into four broad categories or methods: (i) production performance-based methods; (ii) material balance-based methods; (iii) volumetric-based methods; and (iv) analogy. These
methods may be used singularly or in combination by the reserve evaluator in the process of estimating the quantities of reserves. Reserves for PDP wells were estimated using production performance methods for the vast majority of properties. Certain new producing properties with very little production history were forecast using a combination of production performance and analogy to similar production, both of which are considered to provide a relatively high degree of accuracy. Non-producing reserve estimates for undeveloped properties were forecast using either volumetric or analogy methods, or a combination of both. These methods provide a relatively high degree of accuracy for predicting PUDs for our properties due to the mature nature of the properties targeted for development and an abundance of subsurface control data.
To estimate economically recoverable proved reserves and related future net cash flows, many factors and assumptions, including the use of reservoir parameters derived from geological, geophysical and engineering data which cannot be measured directly, economic criteria based on current costs and the SEC pricing requirements and forecasts of future production rates were considered.
Under SEC rules, reasonable certainty can be established using techniques that have been proven effective by actual production from projects in the same reservoir or an analogous reservoir or by other evidence using reliable technology that establishes reasonable certainty. Reliable technology is a grouping of one or more technologies (including computational methods) that has been field tested and has been demonstrated to provide reasonably certain results with consistency and repeatability in the formation being evaluated or in an analogous formation. To establish reasonable certainty with respect to our estimated proved reserves, the technologies and economic data used in the estimation of our proved reserves have been demonstrated to yield results with consistency and repeatability, and include production and well test data, downhole completion information, geologic data, electrical logs, radioactivity logs, core analyses, available seismic data and historical well cost and operating expense data.
Summary of Oil and Natural Gas Reserve Estimates. The following table presents our estimated net proved oil, NGLs and natural gas reserves as of December 31, 2017, 2016, and 2015 prepared in accordance with the rules and regulations of the SEC. All of our proved reserves are located in the United States.
The following discussion and analysis of our proved oil, NGLs and natural gas reserves and changes in our proved reserves is intended to provide additional guidance on the operational activities, transactions, economic and other factors which significantly impacted our estimate of proved reserves as of December 31, 2017 and changes in our proved reserves during 2017. This discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with Note 12 in the notes to our consolidated financial statements. The following table summarizes the changes in our proved reserves from January 1, 2017 to December 31, 2017.
For the year ended December 31, 2017, our extensions and discoveries of 93,217 Mboe were primarily the result of our continued horizontal drilling program in both the Midland Basin and the Delaware Basin. This includes 65,657 Mboe of new proved undeveloped locations added during the year. The purchases of minerals in place of 47,485 Mboe were primarily related to the SHEP II acquisition that closed in March 2017, as further described in Note 3 in the notes to our consolidated financial statements. Positive revisions of previous estimates of 18,520 Mboe were primarily related to modified spacing in certain sections, improved performance on certain wells based on additional historical results incorporated to our reserve estimates and higher prices.
Reserve engineering is a subjective process of estimating volumes of economically recoverable oil and natural gas that cannot be measured in an exact manner. The accuracy of any reserve estimate is a function of the quality of available data and of engineering and geological interpretation. As a result, the estimates of different engineers often vary. In addition, the results of drilling, testing and production may justify revisions of such estimates. Accordingly, reserve estimates often differ from the quantities of oil and natural gas that are ultimately recovered. Estimates of economically recoverable oil and natural gas and of future net revenues are based on a number of variables and assumptions, all of which may vary from actual results, including geologic interpretation, prices and future production rates and costs. Please read “Item 1. Risk Factors.”
PUDs
As of December 31, 2017, our PUDs comprised of 154,667 MBbls of oil, 35,275 MBbls of NGLs and 161,903 MMcf of natural gas, for a total of 216,926 MBoe. PUDs will be converted from undeveloped to developed as the applicable wells begin production.
The following table summarizes the changes in our PUDs for the year ended December 31, 2017:
(1) Extensions and discoveries resulted from drilling of wells to delineate our acreage position.
(2) Purchases of PUDs were primarily attributable to the SHEP II acquisition that closed on March 1, 2017.
(3) Capital costs incurred to convert PUDs to proved developed reserves were $173.6 million.
(4) Revisions of previous estimates were primarily due to negative revisions of previous estimated quantities due to the reclassification of certain PUDs to unproved pursuant to the five-year development rule established by the SEC, partially offset by positive revisions due to performance and price.
All of our PUD drilling locations are scheduled to be drilled within five years of their initial booking.
Oil and Natural Gas Production, Prices and Costs
Production and Price History
The following table sets forth information regarding net production of oil, natural gas and NGLs, and certain price and cost information for each of the periods indicated:
(1) Average prices shown in the table reflect prices both before and after the effects of our cash payments/receipts on our commodity derivative transactions. Our calculation of such effects includes realized gains or losses on cash settlements for commodity derivative transactions and an adjustment to reflect premiums incurred previously or upon settlement that are attributable to instruments settled in the period if applicable.
(2) Average realized prices for oil are net of transportation costs. Average realized prices for natural gas and NGLs do not include gathering and transportation costs; instead, gathering and transportation costs related to our gas and NGLs production and sales are included in our lease operating expenses.
(3) Amount includes all cash corporate general and administrative expenses, including cash compensation amounts.
(4) Represents compensation expense related to restricted stock awards and performance share awards granted as part of the Company’s ongoing compensation and retention program.
(5) IPO stock comp consists of two components. One component represents restricted stock awarded to certain employees as a result of the Company’s successful initial public offering (“IPO”). These one-time awards vest over time for retention purposes. The other component represents non-cash compensation expense associated with incentive units owned by certain members of management.
(6) The non-recurring 2016 amount is a compensation charge associated with the retirement of an officer of the Company.
Productive Wells
As of December 31, 2017, we owned an interest in 1104 gross (649 net) productive wells. Our wells are oil wells which produce associated liquids-rich natural gas. Productive wells consist of producing wells and wells capable of production, including natural gas wells awaiting pipeline connections to commence deliveries and oil wells awaiting connection to production facilities. Gross wells are the total number of producing wells in which we have an interest, and net wells are the sum of our fractional working interests owned in gross wells.
Developed and Undeveloped Acreage
The following table sets forth information as of December 31, 2017 relating to our leasehold acreage:
(1) Developed acres are acres that are allocated or assignable to productive wells or wells capable of production. Large portions of the acreage that are considered developed under SEC guidelines are developed with vertical wells or horizontal wells that are in a single horizon. We believe much of this acreage has significant remaining development potential in multiple intervals with horizontal wells.
(2) Undeveloped acres are acres on which wells have not been drilled or completed to a point that would permit the production of commercial quantities of oil, NGLs or natural gas.
Many of the leases comprising the undeveloped acreage set forth in the table above will expire at the end of their respective primary terms unless production from the leasehold acreage has been established prior to such date, in which event the lease will remain in effect until the cessation of production. The following table sets forth the gross and net undeveloped acreage, as of December 31, 2017, that will expire over the next five years unless production is established within the spacing units covering the acreage or the lease is renewed or extended under continuous drilling provisions prior to the primary term expiration dates.
Drilling Results
The table below sets forth the results of our drilling activities for the periods indicated. The information should not be considered indicative of future performance, nor should it be assumed that there is necessarily any correlation among the number of productive wells drilled, quantities of reserves found or economic value. Productive wells are those that produce, or are capable of producing, commercial quantities of hydrocarbons, regardless of whether they produce a reasonable rate of return.
Dry wells are those that prove to be incapable of producing hydrocarbons in sufficient quantities to justify completion. Although a well may be classified as productive upon completion, future changes in oil, NGLs and natural gas prices, operating costs and production may result in the well becoming uneconomical, particularly exploratory wells where there is no production history.
The following table summarizes our gross and net interests in the wells completed during the periods indicated.
(1) At December 31, 2017, we operated seven horizontal drilling rigs and had 36 gross (31.9 net) operated wells being completed or waiting on completion.
ITEM 3.