ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
Our properties include working interests in approximately 42,428 surface acres located in the Permian Basin in the Texas counties of Midland, Martin, Andrews, Ector, Dawson and Upton. The following table summarizes our surface acreage by county as of December 31, 2013.
The Permian Basin consists of mature, legacy onshore oil and liquids-rich natural gas reservoirs that span approximately 86,000 square miles in West Texas and New Mexico. Operators in the Permian Basin have produced more than 29 billion barrels of oil and 75 trillion cubic feet of natural gas over the past 90 years, and the Permian Basin is estimated to contain recoverable oil and natural gas reserves exceeding that which has already been produced. With oil production of over 960 MBbls/d from over 80,000 wells during 2013, production from the Permian Basin represented 50% of the crude oil produced in Texas and approximately 17% of the crude oil produced onshore in the continental United States during such period. It is composed of three sub basins, the Delaware Basin, the Central Basin Platform and the Midland Basin.
The Midland Basin is characterized by an extensive operating history, a favorable operating environment, mature infrastructure, long reserve life, multiple producing horizons, enhanced recovery potential and a large number of operators. The vast majority of our acreage is located on large, contiguous acreage blocks in the core of the Midland Basin, primarily in the contiguous Texas counties of Midland, Martin, Andrews, Dawson and Ector. We believe that our properties are prospective for oil and liquids-rich natural gas from multiple producing stratigraphic horizons, which we refer to as stacked pay zones.
Our contiguous acreage positions allow us to maximize our resource recovery on a per section basis and increase our returns. In addition, our contiguous acreage position allows us the flexibility to adjust our drilling and completion techniques, primarily the length of our horizontal laterals, in order to maximize our well results, drilling costs and returns. Our contiguous position and the flexibility it provides allow us to target multiple horizontal zones underneath our surface acreage, providing us with total Effective Horizontal Acreage of approximately 140,435 net acres in the Midland Basin. The following table provides a summary of our Effective Horizontal Acreage, which we believe more accurately conveys our horizontal drilling opportunities in our target zones.
(1) Our calculation of our Effective Horizontal Acreage is an inexact estimate. We cannot assure you that any amount of our Effective Horizontal Acreage listed above in each of our target horizontal zones is prospective for that zone. Additionally, we cannot ascertain what portion of our Effective Horizontal Acreage will ever be drilled. See “Item 1A. Risk Factors-Our Effective Horizontal Acreage is based on our and other operators’ current drilling results and our interpretation of available geologic and engineering data and therefore is an inexact estimate subject to various uncertainties.”
The Midland Basin has been one of the most prolific oil-producing regions in Texas. The first commercial oil well drilled in the Midland Basin was completed in 1921, and the large resource potential of the Spraberry Trend was discovered in the 1940s. The Wolfcamp formation has a similarly long operating history, as drillers aiming for deeper conventional targets during the 1950s occasionally intersected carbonate formations and debris flows with good reservoir properties. Industry operators often refer to the combined Spraberry and Wolfcamp formations in terms of vertical development as the “Wolfberry” play, but recent advances in geologic understanding and production technology have highlighted the resource potential of the region’s unconventional reservoirs, located in mudrock-dominated intervals that are productive after hydraulic-fracture stimulation. Technological advances in 3-D seismic imagery have demonstrated the larger geographic extent of the unconventional formations than originally estimated and, due to multiple stacked pay zones, significantly more oil in place as compared to other major U.S. shale oil plays.
In recent years, drilling activity in the Midland Basin has shown a trend towards horizontal development. As of January 2012, there were 20 horizontal rigs and approximately 260 vertical rigs operating in the Midland Basin. As of March 2014, there were 109 horizontal rigs and approximately 166 vertical rigs operating within the same area. Our primary focus shifted in late 2012 to drilling higher rate of return horizontal wells targeting the Middle Spraberry, Lower Spraberry, Wolfcamp A, Wolfcamp B and Wolfcamp D (Cline) formations. In addition, we believe our properties present additional horizontal drilling opportunities from several other stacked pay zones such as the Clearfork, Jo Mill, Dean, Strawn, Atoka, Mississippian and Devonian formations.
Ryder Scott, our independent petroleum engineering firm, has estimated that as of December 31, 2013, proved reserves net to our interest in our properties were approximately 53,883 MBoe, of which 40% were classified as PDP. The proved reserves are generally characterized as long-lived, with predictable production profiles.
Production Status. For the year ended December 31, 2013, our average net daily production was 7,293 Boe/d (approximately 70% oil, 14% natural gas and 16% NGLs), of which 15% was from horizontal well production and 85% was from vertical well production. During 2012, our average net daily production was 5,089 Boe/d (approximately 69% oil, 14% natural gas and 17% NGLs), of which 1% was from horizontal well production and 99% was from vertical well production. As of December 31, 2013, we produced from 24 horizontal and 338 vertical wells and were the operator of approximately 95% of our net acreage.
Facilities. We strive to develop the necessary infrastructure to lower our costs and support our drilling schedule and production growth. We accomplish this goal through a combination of developing our own midstream assets as well as through contractual arrangements with third party service providers. Our facilities located on our properties are generally in close proximity to our well locations and include storage tank batteries, oil/gas/water separation equipment and pumping units.
In addition to standard well site surface equipment, we have invested our capital in building gathering lines and water infrastructure, including water pipelines, water source wells and water disposal wells. We have laid approximately 85 miles of oil, natural gas and water transport lines to support gathering and transportation activities on our properties. To secure adequate water supplies, we have drilled eight water source wells into the Santa Rosa formation in West Texas that complement our purchase of fresh water. A majority of the water used in our operations is sourced from the Santa Rosa formation, which is a brackish, non-potable water aquifer that is not used for human consumption or agricultural use but is of adequate quality for our hydraulic fracturing operations. We also operate three saltwater disposal wells on our properties and we have an additional saltwater disposal well in the completion process. We sold one water source well and one saltwater disposal well that we operated to Resolute as part of an asset disposition that occurred in part in December 2012 and in part in March 2013.
Recent and Future Activity. A total of 109 gross (69 net) wells were drilled on our acreage during 2012, and during 2013, 102 gross (53 net) wells were drilled on our acreage. We recently drilled our first multi-well pad (two
well) layout and anticipate utilizing a three-well pad layout in 2014. We expect these multi-well pads to increase our capital efficiency and intend to begin implementing multi-well pad drilling on a regular basis.
As of December 31, 2013, we had identified 1,157 horizontal drilling locations in multiple horizons across our acreage based on spacing of five wells per 640 acres for short laterals and five wells per 960 acres for long laterals. In addition, based on our evaluation of applicable geologic and engineering data, as of December 31, 2013 we had 297 identified vertical drilling locations on 40-acre spacing and an additional 500 identified vertical drilling locations based on 20-acre downspacing. In this Report, we define identified drilling locations as locations specifically identified by management as an estimation of our multi-year drilling activities based on evaluation of applicable geologic and engineering data. The availability of local infrastructure, drilling support assets and other factors as management may deem relevant, such as easement restrictions and state and local regulations, are considered in determining such locations. The drilling locations on which we actually drill wells will ultimately depend upon the availability of capital, regulatory approvals, seasonal restrictions, oil and natural gas prices, costs, actual drilling results and other factors.
Oil and Natural Gas Data
Proved Reserves
Evaluation and Review of Proved Reserves. Our pro forma proved reserve estimates as of December 31, 2013 were prepared by Ryder Scott, our independent petroleum engineers. The technical persons responsible for preparing our proved reserve estimates meet the requirements with regard to qualifications, independence, objectivity and confidentiality set forth in the Standards Pertaining to the Estimating and Auditing of Oil and Gas Reserves Information promulgated by the Society of Petroleum Engineers. Ryder Scott does not own an interest in any of our properties, nor is it employed by us on a contingent basis. A copy of the independent petroleum engineering firm’s proved reserve report as of December 31, 2013 is included as an exhibit to this Report. Our pro forma reserve report as of December 31, 2012 is an internally prepared reserve report.
We maintain an internal staff of petroleum engineers and geoscience professionals who worked closely with our independent reserve engineers to ensure the integrity, accuracy and timeliness of the data used to calculate our proved reserves relating to our assets in the Permian Basin. Our internal technical team members meet with our independent reserve engineers periodically during the period covered by the proved reserve report to discuss the assumptions and methods used in the proved reserve estimation process. We provide historical information to Ryder Scott for our properties, such as ownership interest, oil and natural gas production, well test data, commodity prices and operating and development costs. Tamara Pollard, our Vice President of Planning and Reserves, is primarily responsible for overseeing the preparation of all of our reserve estimates. Ms. Pollard is a petroleum engineer with over 25 years of reservoir and operations experience, and our geoscience staff has an average of approximately 30 years of energy industry experience per person.
The preparation of our proved reserve estimates are completed in accordance with our internal control procedures. These procedures, which are intended to ensure reliability of reserve estimations, include the following:
· review and verification of historical production data, which data is based on actual production as reported by us;
· preparation of reserve estimates by Ms. Pollard or under her direct supervision;
· review by our Chief Executive Officer of all of our reported proved reserves at the close of each quarter, including the review of all significant reserve changes and all new PUDs additions;
· direct reporting responsibilities by our Vice President of Planning and Reserves to our Chief Executive Officer; and
· verification of property ownership by our land department.
Estimation of Proved Reserves. Under SEC rules, proved reserves are those quantities of oil and natural gas, which, by analysis of geoscience and engineering data, can be estimated with reasonable certainty to be economically producible-from a given date forward, from known reservoirs and under existing economic conditions, operating methods and government regulations-prior to the time at which contracts providing the right to operate expire, unless evidence indicates that renewal is reasonably certain, regardless of whether deterministic or probabilistic methods are used for the estimation. If deterministic methods are used, the SEC has defined reasonable
certainty for proved reserves as a “high degree of confidence that the quantities will be recovered.” All of our proved reserves as of December 31, 2013 and 2012 were estimated using a deterministic method. The estimation of reserves involves two distinct determinations. The first determination results in the estimation of the quantities of recoverable oil and natural gas and the second determination results in the estimation of the uncertainty associated with those estimated quantities in accordance with the definitions established under SEC rules. The process of estimating the quantities of recoverable oil and natural gas reserves relies on the use of certain generally accepted analytical procedures. These analytical procedures fall into four broad categories or methods: (i) production performance-based methods; (ii) material balance-based methods; (iii) volumetric-based methods; and (iv) analogy. These methods may be used singularly or in combination by the reserve evaluator in the process of estimating the quantities of reserves. Reserves for PDP wells were estimated using production performance methods for the vast majority of properties. Certain new producing properties with very little production history were forecast using a combination of production performance and analogy to similar production, both of which are considered to provide a relatively high degree of accuracy. Non-producing reserve estimates, for developed and undeveloped properties, were forecast using either volumetric or analogy methods, or a combination of both. These methods provide a relatively high degree of accuracy for predicting proved developed non-producing and PUDs for our properties, due to the mature nature of the properties targeted for development and an abundance of subsurface control data.
To estimate economically recoverable proved reserves and related future net cash flows, we, in the case of our internally prepared reserve report as of December 31, 2012, and Ryder Scott, in the case of the reserve report as of December 31, 2013, considered many factors and assumptions, including the use of reservoir parameters derived from geological, geophysical and engineering data which cannot be measured directly, economic criteria based on current costs and the SEC pricing requirements and forecasts of future production rates.
Under SEC rules, reasonable certainty can be established using techniques that have been proven effective by actual production from projects in the same reservoir or an analogous reservoir or by other evidence using reliable technology that establishes reasonable certainty. Reliable technology is a grouping of one or more technologies (including computational methods) that has been field tested and has been demonstrated to provide reasonably certain results with consistency and repeatability in the formation being evaluated or in an analogous formation. To establish reasonable certainty with respect to our estimated proved reserves, the technologies and economic data used in the estimation of our proved reserves have been demonstrated to yield results with consistency and repeatability, and include production and well test data, downhole completion information, geologic data, electrical logs, radioactivity logs, core analyses, available seismic data and historical well cost and operating expense data.
Summary of Pro Forma Oil and Natural Gas Reserves. The following table presents our estimated pro forma net proved oil and natural gas reserves, after giving effect to the IPO Transactions as if the IPO Transactions had occurred on January 1, 2013, as of December 31, 2013 and December 31, 2012, based on the proved reserve reports as of December 31, 2013 by Ryder Scott, our independent petroleum engineering firm, and based on our internally generated reserve reports as of December 31, 2012, in each case, prepared in accordance with the rules and regulations of the SEC. All of our proved reserves are located in the United States. A copy of the proved reserve report as December 31, 2013 prepared by Ryder Scott with respect to our properties is included as an exhibit to this Report.
The changes from December 31, 2012 estimated proved reserves to December 31, 2013 estimated proved reserves reflect production during this period of approximately 2,662 MBoe, net negative revisions of approximately 225 MBoe and additions of approximately 13,287 MBoe attributable to extensions resulting from strategic drilling of wells by us to delineate our acreage position.
Reserve engineering is and must be recognized as a subjective process of estimating volumes of economically recoverable oil and natural gas that cannot be measured in an exact manner. The accuracy of any reserve estimate is a function of the quality of available data and of engineering and geological interpretation. As a result, the estimates of different engineers often vary. In addition, the results of drilling, testing and production may justify revisions of such estimates. Accordingly, reserve estimates often differ from the quantities of oil and natural gas that are ultimately recovered. Estimates of economically recoverable oil and natural gas and of future net revenues are based on a number of variables and assumptions, all of which may vary from actual results, including geologic interpretation, prices and future production rates and costs. Please read “Item 1. Risk Factors.”
Additional information regarding our proved reserves can be found in the notes to our financial statements included elsewhere in this Report and the proved reserve report as of December 31, 2013, which is included as an exhibit to this Report.
Pro Forma PUDs
Year Ended December 31, 2013
As of December 31, 2013, our PUDs totaled 21,011 MBbls of oil, 31,665 MMcf of natural gas and 6,207 MBbls of NGLs, for a total of 32,496 MBoe. PUDs will be converted from undeveloped to developed as the applicable wells begin production. Changes in PUDs that occurred during 2013 were primarily due to:
· additions of approximately 9,747 MBoe attributable to extensions resulting from strategic drilling of wells by us to delineate our acreage position; and
· the conversion of approximately 5,599 MBoe attributable to PUDs into proved developed reserves.
During the year ended December 31, 2013, we spent $108.9 million to convert PUDs to proved developed reserves and $97.7 million to convert non-proved reserves to proved developed reserves.
All of our PUD drilling locations are scheduled to be drilled within five years of their initial booking.
As of December 31, 2013, 1% of our total proved reserves were classified as proved developed non-producing.
Year Ended December 31, 2012
As of December 31, 2012, our PUDs totaled 18,726 MBbls of oil, 29,044 MMcf of natural gas and 5,457 MBbls of NGLs, for a total of 29,024 MBoe. PUDs will be converted from undeveloped to developed as the applicable wells begin production.
Changes in PUDs that occurred during 2012 were primarily due to:
· additions of approximately 14,741 MBoe attributable to extensions resulting from strategic drilling of wells by us to delineate our acreage position;
· the conversion of approximately 4,965 MBoe attributable to PUDs into proved developed reserves; and
· negative revisions of approximately 37,361 MBoe in PUDs were due to a combination of adjustments in working interest, performance revisions and a reduction in PUD reserves that resulted from our strategic
decision to not include 20-acre PUD locations in our reserves in favor of focusing our capital expenditures on horizontal locations and, to a lesser extent, on 40-acre vertical locations.
During the twelve months ended December 31, 2012, we spent $93.1 million to convert PUDs to proved developed reserves and $79.1 million to convert non-proved reserves to proved developed reserves.
All of our PUD drilling locations are scheduled to be drilled within five years of their initial booking.
As of December 31, 2012, 1% of our total proved reserves were classified as proved developed non-producing.
Oil and Natural Gas Production Prices and Costs
Production and Price History
The following table sets forth information regarding net production of oil, natural gas and NGLs, and certain price and cost information for each of the periods indicated:
(1) Does not include the results related to the Verde Acquisition or Pecos Contribution due to their lack of significance to our combined financial results.
(2) In 2011, we did not track NGLs as a separate product category; instead, NGL production and sales were included in our natural gas production and sales.
(3) Average prices shown in the table reflect prices both before and after the effects of our realized commodity derivative transactions. Our calculation of such effects includes realized gains or losses on cash settlements for commodity derivative transactions and an adjustment to reflect premiums incurred previously or upon settlement that are attributable to instruments settled in the period.
(4) Average realized prices for oil are net of transportation costs. Average realized prices for natural gas do not include transportation costs; instead, transportation costs related to our gas production and sales are included in our lease operating expenses. No transportation costs are associated with NGL production and sales.
(5) Pro forma general and administrative expenses do not include additional expenses we would have incurred as a result of being a public company.
Pro Forma Productive Wells
As of December 31, 2013, on a pro forma basis, we owned an average 66% working interest in 362 gross productive wells. Productive wells consist of producing wells and wells capable of production, including natural gas wells awaiting pipeline connections to commence deliveries and oil wells awaiting connection to production
facilities. Gross wells are the total number of producing wells in which we have an interest, and net wells are the sum of our fractional working interests owned in gross wells.
Pro Forma Developed and Undeveloped Acreage
The following table sets forth information as of December 31, 2013 relating to our leasehold acreage:
(1) Developed acres are acres spaced or assigned to productive wells and does not include undrilled acreage held by production under the terms of the lease.
(2) Undeveloped acres are acres on which wells have not been drilled or completed to a point that would permit the production of commercial quantities of oil or natural gas, regardless of whether such acreage contains proved reserves.
(3) A gross acre is an acre in which a working interest is owned. The number of gross acres is the total number of acres in which a working interest is owned.
(4) A net acre is deemed to exist when the sum of the fractional ownership working interests in gross acres equals one. The number of net acres is the sum of the fractional working interests owned in gross acres expressed as whole numbers and fractions thereof.
Many of the leases comprising the undeveloped acreage set forth in the table above will expire at the end of their respective primary terms unless production from the leasehold acreage has been established prior to such date, in which event the lease will remain in effect until the cessation of production. The following table sets forth the gross and net undeveloped acreage, as of December 31, 2013, that will expire over the next five years unless production is established within the spacing units covering the acreage or the lease is renewed or extended under continuous drilling provisions prior to the primary term expiration dates.
Pro Forma Drilling Results
The table below sets forth the results of our drilling activities for the periods indicated. The information should not be considered indicative of future performance, nor should it be assumed that there is necessarily any correlation among the number of productive wells drilled, quantities of reserves found or economic value. Productive wells are those that produce, or are capable of producing, commercial quantities of hydrocarbons, regardless of whether they produce a reasonable rate of return.
Dry wells are those that prove to be incapable of producing hydrocarbons in sufficient quantities to justify completion.
(1) Although a well may be classified as productive upon completion, future changes in oil and natural gas prices, operating costs and production may result in the well becoming uneconomical, particularly exploratory wells where there is no production history.
ITEM 3.