ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
Our properties as of December 31, 2016 include working interests in approximately 139,000 gross and 84,000 net surface acres located in the Permian Basin primarily in the Texas counties of Midland, Martin, Andrews, Ector, Glasscock, Dawson, Loving and Winkler.
The Permian Basin consists of mature, legacy onshore oil and liquids-rich natural gas reservoirs that span approximately 86,000 square miles in West Texas and New Mexico. It is composed of three sub basins, the Delaware Basin, the Central Basin Platform and the Midland Basin. Both the Midland Basin and the Delaware Basin are characterized by extensive operating histories, favorable operating environments, available infrastructure and a well-developed network of oilfield service providers, long reserve lives, multiple producing horizons, and a large number of operators. The first commercial wells were drilled in both basins during the 1920's. Advances in geologic understanding and production technology have highlighted the resource potential of these basins unconventional reservoirs that are productive after hydraulic-fracture stimulation. Technological advances in 3-D seismic imagery have demonstrated the larger geographic extent of the unconventional formations than originally estimated and, due to multiple stacked pay zones, significantly more oil in place as compared to other major U.S. shale oil plays. In recent years, drilling activity in the Permian Basin has shown a growing trend towards horizontal and directional drilling over vertical drilling.
The vast majority of our acreage is located on large, contiguous acreage blocks in the core of the Midland Basin and Delaware Basin. The Midland Basin properties are primarily in the adjacent Texas counties of Midland, Martin, Andrews, Ector, Glasscock, and Dawson. The Delaware Basin properties are located in the adjacent Texas counties of Loving and Winkler. We believe that our properties are prospective for oil and liquids-rich natural gas from multiple producing stratigraphic horizons, which we refer to as stacked pay zones.
As of December 31, 2016 we had identified 5,003 horizontal drilling locations, which include properties acquired in the SHEP I acquisition in November 2016 in multiple horizons across our acreage. Including the properties expected to be acquired in the SHEP II acquisition, expected to close in March 2017, our pro forma identified horizontal drilling locations was 5,930. We define identified drilling locations as locations specifically identified by management as an estimation of our multi-year drilling activities based on evaluation of applicable geologic and engineering data. The availability of local infrastructure, drilling support assets and other factors as management may deem relevant, such as easement restrictions and state and local regulations, are considered in determining such locations. The drilling locations on which we actually drill wells will ultimately depend upon the availability of capital, regulatory approvals, seasonal restrictions, oil and natural gas prices, costs, actual drilling results and other factors.
Our contiguous acreage positions allow us to drill longer laterals, maximize our resource recovery on a per section basis and increase our returns. In addition, our contiguous acreage positions allow us the flexibility to adjust our drilling and completion techniques, primarily the length of our horizontal laterals, in order to maximize our well results, drilling costs and returns. Our contiguous acreage positions and owning leases covering virtually all of the depths of our properties allow us to target multiple horizontal zones underneath our surface acreage. Including the SHEP II acreage, our total pro forma Effective Horizontal Acreage is approximately 502,000 net acres when considering the multiple zones under the surface acreage in our core areas, which we believe more accurately conveys the extent of our horizontal drilling opportunities in our target zones.
Estimated proved reserves, net to our interest, in our properties, as of December 31, 2016, which include properties acquired in the SHEP I acquisition in November 2016 and have been reviewed by Netherland Sewell, our independent petroleum engineering firm, were approximately 236.9 MMBoe (70% oil, 12% natural gas, and 18% NGLs), of which 41% were classified as PDP. The estimated proved reserves are generally characterized as long-lived, with predictable production profiles. Including the properties expected to be acquired in the SHEP II acquisition, expected to close in March 2017, our pro forma proved reserves were approximately 283.3 MMBoe (70% oil, 12% natural gas, and 18% NGLs), of which 39% were classified as PDP.
Production Status. For the year ended December 31, 2016, our average net daily production was 29,161 Boe/d (approximately 73% oil, 16% NGLs and 11% natural gas), of which 77% was from horizontal well production and 23% was from vertical well production. For the year ended December 31, 2015, our average net daily production was 21,047 Boe/d
(approximately 75% oil, 14% NGLs and 11% natural gas). As of December 31, 2016, we operated and produced from 233 horizontal and 402 vertical wells and were the operator of approximately 81% of our net acreage.
Facilities. We strive to develop the necessary infrastructure to lower our costs and support our drilling schedule and production growth. We accomplish this goal through a combination of developing a portion of our own midstream assets as well as through contractual arrangements with third party service providers. Our facilities located on our properties are generally in close proximity to our well locations and include storage tank batteries, oil/gas/water separation equipment and pumping units.
In addition to standard well site surface equipment, we have invested our capital in building gathering lines and water infrastructure, including water pipelines, water source wells and water disposal wells to support our exploration and development activities. To secure adequate water supplies, we have drilled water source wells into the Santa Rosa formation in West Texas that complement our purchase of fresh water. A majority of the water used in our operations is sourced from the Santa Rosa formation, which is a brackish, non-potable water aquifer that is not used for human consumption or agricultural use but is of adequate quality for our hydraulic fracturing operations. We also operate saltwater disposal wells on our properties. We have a minority investment in a small private midstream company that engages in the building and operation of water infrastructure on our properties, and for third parties.
Oil and Natural Gas Data
Proved Reserves
Evaluation and Review of Proved Reserves. Our proved reserve estimates as of December 31, 2016 and the proved reserve estimates associated with SHEP II as of December 31, 2016 were prepared by Netherland Sewell, our independent petroleum engineers. The technical persons responsible for preparing our proved reserve estimates set forth in the Netherland Sewell letters meet the requirements with regard to qualifications, independence, objectivity and confidentiality set forth in the Standards Pertaining to the Estimating and Auditing of Oil and Gas Reserves Information promulgated by the Society of Petroleum Engineers. Netherland Sewell does not own an interest in any of our properties, nor is it employed by us on a contingent basis. A copy of each of the independent petroleum engineering firm’s proved reserve reports as of December 31, 2016 is included as an exhibit to this Report.
We maintain an internal staff of petroleum engineers and geoscience professionals who worked closely with our independent reserve engineers to ensure the integrity, accuracy and timeliness of the data used to calculate our proved reserves relating to our assets in the Permian Basin. Our internal technical team members meet with our independent reserve engineers periodically during the period covered by the proved reserve report to discuss the assumptions and methods used in the proved reserve estimation process. We provide historical information to Netherland Sewell for our properties, such as ownership interest, oil and natural gas production, well test data, commodity prices and operating and development costs. Our Reservoir Engineering Manager is primarily responsible for overseeing the preparation of all of our reserve estimates. He is a petroleum engineer with over 13 years of reservoir and operations experience, and our geoscience staff has an average of approximately 20 years of energy industry experience per person.
The preparation of our proved reserve estimates are completed in accordance with our internal control procedures. These procedures, which are intended to ensure reliability of reserve estimations, include the following:
•review and verification of historical production data, which data is based on actual production as reported by us;
•preparation of reserve estimates by our Reservoir Engineering Manager or under his direct supervision;
•review by our Chief Executive Officer of all of our reported proved reserves at the close of each quarter, including the review of all significant reserve changes and all new PUDs additions;
•direct reporting responsibilities by our Reservoir Engineering Manager to our Chief Operating Officer; and
•verification of property ownership by our land department.
Estimation of Proved Reserves. Under SEC rules, proved reserves are those quantities of oil and natural gas, which, by analysis of geoscience and engineering data, can be estimated with reasonable certainty to be economically producible-from a given date forward, from known reservoirs and under existing economic conditions, operating methods and government regulations-prior to the time at which contracts providing the right to operate expire, unless evidence indicates that renewal is reasonably certain, regardless of whether deterministic or probabilistic methods are used for the estimation. If deterministic methods are used, the SEC has defined reasonable certainty for proved reserves as a “high degree of confidence that the quantities will be recovered.” All of our proved reserves as of December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014 were estimated using a deterministic method. The estimation of reserves involves two distinct determinations. The first determination results in the
estimation of the quantities of recoverable oil and natural gas and the second determination results in the estimation of the uncertainty associated with those estimated quantities in accordance with the definitions established under SEC rules. The process of estimating the quantities of recoverable oil and natural gas reserves relies on the use of certain generally accepted analytical procedures. These analytical procedures fall into four broad categories or methods: (i) production performance-based methods; (ii) material balance-based methods; (iii) volumetric-based methods; and (iv) analogy. These methods may be used singularly or in combination by the reserve evaluator in the process of estimating the quantities of reserves. Reserves for PDP wells were estimated using production performance methods for the vast majority of properties. Certain new producing properties with very little production history were forecast using a combination of production performance and analogy to similar production, both of which are considered to provide a relatively high degree of accuracy. Non-producing reserve estimates, for developed and undeveloped properties, were forecast using either volumetric or analogy methods, or a combination of both. These methods provide a relatively high degree of accuracy for predicting proved developed non-producing and PUDs for our properties, due to the mature nature of the properties targeted for development and an abundance of subsurface control data.
To estimate economically recoverable proved reserves and related future net cash flows, many factors and assumptions, including the use of reservoir parameters derived from geological, geophysical and engineering data which cannot be measured directly, economic criteria based on current costs and the SEC pricing requirements and forecasts of future production rates were considered.
Under SEC rules, reasonable certainty can be established using techniques that have been proven effective by actual production from projects in the same reservoir or an analogous reservoir or by other evidence using reliable technology that establishes reasonable certainty. Reliable technology is a grouping of one or more technologies (including computational methods) that has been field tested and has been demonstrated to provide reasonably certain results with consistency and repeatability in the formation being evaluated or in an analogous formation. To establish reasonable certainty with respect to our estimated proved reserves, the technologies and economic data used in the estimation of our proved reserves have been demonstrated to yield results with consistency and repeatability, and include production and well test data, downhole completion information, geologic data, electrical logs, radioactivity logs, core analyses, available seismic data and historical well cost and operating expense data.
Summary of Oil and Natural Gas Reserve Estimates. The following table presents our estimated net proved oil and natural gas reserves as of December 31, 2016, 2015, and 2014, as well as our pro forma net proved oil and natural gas reserves, after giving effect to the SHEP II acquisition as if it had occurred on January 1, 2016, as of December 31, 2016, in each case, prepared in accordance with the rules and regulations of the SEC. All of our proved reserves are located in the United States. Copies of the December 31, 2016 reserve reports by Netherland Sewell covering our proved reserves and the SHEP II proved reserves are included as exhibits to this Report.
The changes from December 31, 2015 estimated proved reserves to December 31, 2016 estimated proved reserves reflect production during this period of approximately 10,673 MBoe, net downward revisions of approximately 17,750 MBoe, additions due to acquisitions of 40,900 MBoe which included our acquisition of SHEP I that closed in November 2016, and additions of approximately 65,238 MBoe attributable to extensions resulting from drilling of wells by us to delineate our acreage position. The negative revision of previous estimated quantities was mainly due to the removal of certain vertical PUDs, as these locations will be replaced with horizontal wells when drilled in the future. The negative revisions of previous estimated quantities due to pricing were 2,131 MBoe.
The changes from December 31, 2014 estimated proved reserves to December 31, 2015 estimated proved reserves reflect production during this period of approximately 7,682 MBoe, net downward revisions of approximately 20,505 MBoe, additions due to acquisitions of 14,379 MBoe, and additions of approximately 66,565 MBoe attributable to extensions resulting from drilling of wells by us to delineate our acreage position. The negative revisions of previous estimated quantities due to pricing were 19,641 MBoe.
On a pro forma basis, the changes from our actual December 31, 2016 estimated proved reserves to our pro forma December 31, 2016 estimated proved reserves reflect additions of 46,398 due to the acquisition of SHEP II, which is expected to close in March 2017.
Reserve engineering is a subjective process of estimating volumes of economically recoverable oil and natural gas that cannot be measured in an exact manner. The accuracy of any reserve estimate is a function of the quality of available data and of engineering and geological interpretation. As a result, the estimates of different engineers often vary. In addition, the results of drilling, testing and production may justify revisions of such estimates. Accordingly, reserve estimates often differ from the quantities of oil and natural gas that are ultimately recovered. Estimates of economically recoverable oil and natural gas and of future net revenues are based on a number of variables and assumptions, all of which may vary from actual results, including geologic interpretation, prices and future production rates and costs. Please read “Item 1. Risk Factors.”
Additional information regarding our proved reserves can be found in the notes to our financial statements included elsewhere in this Report and the proved reserve reports as of December 31, 2016, which are included as exhibits to this Report.
PUDs
Year Ended December 31, 2016
As of December 31, 2016, our PUDs totaled 99,703 MBbls of oil, 23,937 MBbls of NGLs and 100,531 MMcf of natural gas, for a total of 140,395 MBoe. PUDs will be converted from undeveloped to developed as the applicable wells begin production. Changes in PUDs that occurred during 2016 were primarily due to:
•additions of approximately 47,225 MBoe attributable to extensions resulting from drilling of wells by us to delineate our acreage position;
•additions of approximately 28,512 MBoe attributable to acquisitions, which included our acquisition of SHEP I that closed in November 2016; and
•the conversion of approximately 8,487 MBoe attributable to PUDs into proved developed reserves, and
•net reductions of approximately 21,440 from negative revisions of previous estimated quantities which were primarily due to negative revisions due to the removal of certain vertical PUDs as these locations will be replaced with horizontal wells when drilled in the future, along with negative revisions due to pricing of 244 MBoe.
During the year ended December 31, 2016 , we spent $68.2 million to convert PUDs to proved developed reserves.
All of our PUD drilling locations are scheduled to be drilled within five years of their initial booking.
As of December 31, 2016, less than 1% of our total proved reserves were classified as proved developed non-producing.
Oil and Natural Gas Production Prices and Costs
Production and Price History
The following table sets forth information regarding net production of oil, natural gas and NGLs, and certain price and cost information for each of the periods indicated:
(1) Represents information with respect to our predecessor for the first 22 days of 2014 plus that of RSP Permian, Inc. for the remainder of the year. Our predecessor reflects the combined results of RSP LLC and Rising Star.
(2) Does not include the results related to the acquisition of working interests from Pecos in 2014 (the “Pecos Contribution”) due to its lack of significance to our financial results.
(3) Average prices shown in the table reflect prices both before and after the effects of our cash payments/receipts on our commodity derivative transactions. Our calculation of such effects includes realized gains or losses on cash settlements for commodity derivative transactions and an adjustment to reflect premiums incurred previously or upon settlement that are attributable to instruments settled in the period if applicable.
(4) Average realized prices for oil are net of transportation costs. Average realized prices for natural gas do not include transportation costs; instead, transportation costs related to our gas production and sales are included in our lease operating expenses. No transportation costs are associated with NGL production and sales.
(5) Amount includes all cash corporate general and administrative expenses, including cash compensation amounts. Certain IPO bonus amounts were recognized in the 2014 actual results which increased the general and administrative - cash component per Boe and these expenses were non-recurring. See the discussion of general and administrative expenses in "Part II, Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition-Results of Operations.
(6) Represents compensation expense related to restricted stock awards and performance share awards granted as part of the Company's ongoing compensation and retention program.
(7) IPO stock comp consists of two components. One component represents restricted stock awarded to certain employees as a result of a successful IPO. These one-time awards vest over time for retention purposes. The other component represents non-cash compensation expense associated with incentive units owned by certain members of management. These incentive units determined the stock allocation between management and Natural Gas Partners and had no dilutive impact or cash impact to the Company. See the discussion of incentive units in Note 8-Equity Based Compensation of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in “Part II, Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.”
(8) The non-recurring 2016 amount is a compensation charge associated with the retirement of an officer of the Company.
Productive Wells
As of December 31, 2016 we owned an interest in 959 gross (534 net) productive wells, which include properties acquired in the SHEP I acquisition in November 2016. Including the properties expected to be acquired in the SHEP II acquisition, expected to close in March 2017, our pro forma interest was in 990 gross (562 net) productive wells. Our wells are oil wells which produce associated liquids-rich natural gas. Productive wells consist of producing wells and wells capable of production, including natural gas wells awaiting pipeline connections to commence deliveries and oil wells awaiting connection to production facilities. Gross wells are the total number of producing wells in which we have an interest, and net wells are the sum of our fractional working interests owned in gross wells.
Developed and Undeveloped Acreage
The following table sets forth information as of December 31, 2016 relating to our leasehold acreage:
(1) Developed acres are acres spaced or assigned to productive wells and does not include undrilled acreage held by production under the terms of the lease.
(2) Undeveloped acres are acres on which wells have not been drilled or completed to a point that would permit the production of commercial quantities of oil or natural gas, regardless of whether such acreage contains proved reserves.
(3) Includes properties acquired in the SHEP I acquisition in November 2016.
(4) Includes properties expected to be acquired in the SHEP II acquisition in March 2017.
Many of the leases comprising the undeveloped acreage set forth in the table above will expire at the end of their respective primary terms unless production from the leasehold acreage has been established prior to such date, in which event the lease will remain in effect until the cessation of production. The following table sets forth the gross and net undeveloped acreage, as of December 31, 2016, that will expire over the next five years unless production is established within the spacing units covering the acreage or the lease is renewed or extended under continuous drilling provisions prior to the primary term expiration dates.
(1) Includes properties acquired in the SHEP I acquisition in November 2016.
(2) Includes properties expected to be acquired in the SHEP II acquisition in March 2017.
Drilling Results
The table below sets forth the results of our drilling activities for the periods indicated. The information should not be considered indicative of future performance, nor should it be assumed that there is necessarily any correlation among the number of productive wells drilled, quantities of reserves found or economic value. Productive wells are those that produce, or are capable of producing, commercial quantities of hydrocarbons, regardless of whether they produce a reasonable rate of return.
Dry wells are those that prove to be incapable of producing hydrocarbons in sufficient quantities to justify completion. Although a well may be classified as productive upon completion, future changes in oil and natural gas prices, operating costs and production may result in the well becoming uneconomical, particularly exploratory wells where there is no production history.
(1) Represents information with respect to our predecessor for the first 22 days of 2014 plus that of RSP Permian, Inc. for the remainder of the year. Our predecessor reflects the combined results of RSP LLC and Rising Star.
ITEM 3.