ITEM 2.
PROPERTIES
Our properties are located in the West Texas portion of the Permian Basin. As of December 31, 2014, our acreage position consisted of 133,274 net acres, 103,036 of which are in the Midland Basin and 30,238 of which are in the Delaware Basin, approximately 34% of which is held by production. As of December 31, 2014, we have interests in 724 gross (416.4 net) producing wells, of which we operate 99%. Of these wells, 542 were drilled by us since initiating our drilling program in November 2009. The table below sets forth our identified drilling locations in the Midland Basin as of December 31, 2014.
(1)
Our target horizontal location count implies 660’ to 870’ between well spacing which is equivalent to five to eight wells per 640-acre section per prospective interval. The ultimate spacing may be less than these amounts, which would result in a higher location count, or greater than these amounts, which would result in a lower location count.
(2)
Ascribes no vertical locations to our Gaines County (Midland Basin) acreage.
The Permian Basin is an area that extends through multiple counties in Southeast New Mexico and West Texas and covers an area some 250 miles wide and 300 miles long. It is comprised of three main sub-areas, the Delaware Basin, the Central Basin Platform and the Midland Basin. The Permian Basin is characterized by oil and liquids rich gas production. According to the RRC, over 29 billion barrels of oil and 75 trillion cubic feet of gas have been produced in the Permian Basin since the first producing well was drilled in 1921 in Mitchell County. Historically, conventional reservoirs have been targeted and successfully produced in all three sub-areas. Over the past 30 years, there has been an increase in multi-stage fracturing treatments targeting and commingling production from multiple tight, stacked pay, unconventional formations. With the advent of horizontal drilling and the application of multi-stage fracture treatments within one horizontal well bore, activity has increased drastically targeting one unconventional formation at a time for production.
Midland Basin
Throughout the middle and late Pennsylvanian period, the Midland Basin was a very shallow and generally poorly defined area dominated by marine shale and limestone deposition. Organic content of the marine shale increased as the basin slowly subsided. Tectonic uplift of the Central Basin Platform and coincident emergence of the Eastern Shelf during the early Permian period brought greater definition to the Midland Basin as a distinct physiographic feature. Slow subsidence and basin filling with organic shale and limestone continued to dominate deposition. During middle Permian period more emergent surrounding shelf areas to the northwest and south-southwest contributed thick volumes of clastic sand that molded with the shale and limestone and formed the widespread Spraberry formation throughout the Permian Basin. In the later Permian time period, there was basin-wide infilling and subsequent burial with massive evaporate deposition.
The Midland Basin has historically been characterized by production from its most prolific field, the Spraberry Trend Area. The Spraberry Trend Area has been heavily drilled since the discovery of the Seaboard No. 2-D Lee well in Dawson County in 1949. The field stretches over 150 miles North to South and over 75 miles East to West. According to RRC, over 1.2 billion barrels of oil have been produced in this field alone as of April 2013. Additionally, activity targeting the deeper Wolfcamp formation increased dramatically after Henry Petroleum started drilling fully through the Wolfcamp formation in the early 2000s. In the late 2000s and early 2010s, many operators, including us, had success commingling still deeper production from the Upper Pennsylvanian (Cline), Strawn, and Atoka formations. Concurrently, operators started testing zones singularly with horizontal wells and multi-stage
treatments. To date, the majority of these wells in the Midland Basin target the Upper Pennsylvanian and Wolfcamp formations. There have also been successful horizontal tests in the Clearfork, Spraberry, and Atoka formations.
Core Area Descriptions
We group our assets by area based on similar geologic, economic and technical requirements. We split our assets into four areas, the Midland Basin-Core, Midland Basin-Tier 1, Midland Basin-Other and Southern Delaware Basin.
Midland Basin-Core
Our Midland Basin-Core assets are characterized by being in the modern day sedimentary deep portion of the Midland Basin resulting in multiple stacked pay benches ranging from the Clearfork to the Atoka formations. Generally, well drilling and completion costs are slightly higher in the Midland Basin-Core area due to design for deeper depths and higher pressures. Our Midland Basin-Core contains the areas of Andrews, Glasscock, Howard, Martin, Midland, Reagan and Upton Counties.
As of December 31, 2014, we have 65,716 gross (42,564 net) acres in our Midland Basin-Core area. Approximately 73% of our acreage in this area is held by production. We have interests in 503 gross (288.8 net) producing wells in our Midland Basin-Core area as of December 31, 2014 and we operate 99% of the wells in which we have an interest. Since initiating our drilling program, we have drilled 362 wells in this area. The table below sets forth our identified drilling locations in the Midland Basin-Core as of December 31, 2014.
(1)
Our target horizontal location count implies 660’ to 870’ between well spacing which is equivalent to five to eight wells per 640-acre section per prospective interval. The ultimate spacing may be less than these amounts, which would result in a higher location count, or greater than these amounts, which would result in a lower location count.
Midland Basin-Tier I
Our Midland Basin-Tier 1 assets are characterized by being in a shallower modern day sedimentary portion of the Midland Basin than our Midland Basin-Core. The southern boundary is the Big Lake Fault, the western boundary is the Central Basin Platform, the northern boundary is the Horseshoe Atoll and the Eastern boundary is the transition to the Eastern Shelf. Due to lower pressures and shallower depths, well drilling and completion costs tend to be slightly lower than the Midland Basin-Core. Our Midland Basin-Tier 1 includes areas of Andrews, Borden, Crane, Dawson, Ector, Glasscock, Howard, Irion, Martin, Midland, Reagan and Upton Counties.
As of December 31, 2014, we have 47,154 gross (36,289 net) acres in our Midland Basin-Tier I area. Approximately 68% of our acreage in this area is held by production. We have interests in 215 gross (125.4 net) producing wells in our Midland Basin-Tier I area as of December 31, 2014 and operate 99%, of the wells in which we have an interest. Since initiating our drilling program, we have drilled 160 wells in this area. The table below sets forth our identified drilling locations in the Midland Basin-Tier I as of December 31, 2014.
Midland Basin-Tier I (continued)
(1)
Our target horizontal location count implies 660’ to 870’ between well spacing which is equivalent to five to eight wells per 640-acre section per prospective interval. The ultimate spacing may be less than these amounts, which would result in a higher location count, or greater than these amounts, which would result in a lower location count.
Midland Basin-Other
Our Midland Basin-Other assets are characterized as assets that we have limited operating activity in which still fall within the Midland Basin. Over time, as our operating results dictate, we may reclassify these areas based on geologic, economic and technical results. Our Midland Basin-Other includes portions of Andrews, Dawson and Gaines Counties.
As of December 31, 2014, we have 31,832 gross (24,183 net) acres in our Midland Basin-Other area. None of our acreage in this area is held by production. We have interest in four gross (0.3 net) producing wells in our Midland Basin-Other area as of December 31, 2014. As of December 31, 2014, we have identified 109 gross 80- and 40- acre potential vertical locations and 91 gross 20- acre potential vertical drilling location on our properties in the Midland Basin-Other area. We have attributed no horizontal drilling locations at this time and no vertical locations to our leasehold position in Gaines County due to our limited operating history in the area. As our operating history and industry activity increases in the area, we expect to identify additional locations.
Delaware Basin
From the mid-Pennsylvanian period to the early Permian period, the Delaware Basin was a slowly subsiding area that was characterized by shallow marine shales and limestone. Influxes of clastic sands generally occurred as turbidite deposits formed during periodic sea-level changes. Records indicate a rapid deepening of the Delaware Basin relative to the emergent Central Basin Platform, during the early Permian period. Marine shale deposition continued to dominate the basin during this period. Episodic pulses of carbonate and clastic debris and density flows punctuated the shale deposition and eventually became significant reservoirs. Through the late Permian period, the basin became increasingly more clastic dominated as emergent shelf areas to the north shed sands into the basin.
As of December 31, 2014, our Delaware Basin acreage includes 83,109 Boe of proved developed reserves and two gross (two net) producing wells. We hold a leasehold position in 38,525 gross (30,238 net) acres in the Delaware Basin which we call our Trees Ranch Prospect. We believe our leasehold is prospective for Pennsylvanian aged production, based on historical shows and well tests in the Pennsylvanian and Permian (Wolfcamp) aged rocks on our leasehold. We commenced a three-well vertical appraisal program and completed two wells as of December 31, 2014. Upon further evaluating results, we will make a determination as to future development plans. Our Southern Delaware Basin assets are an area bounded on the East and Northeast by the Central Basin Platform, on the West by the Waha field and to the south by the Gomez field. This area is locally known as the Coyanosa Basin. Our Southern Delaware Basin includes portions of Pecos and Reeves Counties.
Production Status
For the year ended December 31, 2014, our average daily net production from our Midland Basin acreage, was 14,144 Boe/d, of which 49% was from oil and 51% was from natural gas and NGLs. Our average daily net production from our Delaware Basin acreage, was 63 Boe/d, of which 93% was from oil and 7% was from natural gas and NGLs. We had no production from the Central Basin Platform.
Facilities
Our land-based oil and gas processing facilities are typical of those found in the Permian Basin. Our facilities located at well locations or centralized lease locations include storage tank batteries, oil/gas/water separation equipment and pumping units.
Recent and Future Activity
During the year ended December 31, 2014, 149 gross (126 net) vertical wells were spud on our Midland Basin acreage for an aggregate estimated net cost of $284 million and 24 gross (19 net) horizontal wells were spud for aggregate estimated net cost of $140 million. Our capital budget for 2015 is approximately $225 million to $250 million. Our capital budget excludes any amounts that may be paid for acquisitions.
As of December 31, 2014, we have identified 1,893 80- and 40-acre potential vertical drilling locations, 2,403 20-acre potential vertical drilling locations and 2,125 potential horizontal drilling locations on our existing acreage, which does not include any vertical locations in our Gaines County (Midland Basin). Our target horizontal location count implies 660’ to 870’ between well spacing which is equivalent to five to eight wells per 640-acre section per prospective interval. The availability of local infrastructure, drilling support assets and other factors as management may deem relevant, such as easement restrictions and state and local regulations, are considered in determining such locations. The drilling locations on which we actually drill wells will ultimately depend upon the availability of capital, regulatory approvals, seasonal restrictions, oil and natural gas prices, costs, actual drilling results and other factors.
Production and Price History
The following table sets forth information regarding our production of oil, natural gas and NGLs, and certain price and cost information, for the periods indicated:
Proved Reserves
Evaluation and Review of Proved Reserves. Our historical proved reserve estimates as of December 31, 2014 and 2013 were prepared based on reports by NSAI, our independent petroleum engineers. NSAI does not own an interest in any of our properties, nor is it employed by us on a contingent basis.
We maintain an internal staff of petroleum engineers and geoscience professionals who worked closely with our independent reserve engineers to ensure the integrity, accuracy and timeliness of the data used to calculate our proved reserves relating to our assets in the Permian Basin. Our internal technical team members meet with our independent reserve engineers periodically during the period covered by the proved reserve report to discuss the assumptions and methods used in the proved reserve estimation process. We provide historical information to the independent reserve engineers for our properties, such as ownership interest, oil and natural gas production, well test data, commodity prices and operating and development costs. Matthew Gallagher, our Vice President-Chief Operating Officer, is primarily responsible for overseeing the preparation of all of our reserve estimates. Mr. Gallagher is a petroleum engineer with approximately ten years of reservoir and operations experience, and our engineering and geoscience staff have an average of approximately 11 years of industry experience per person.
The preparation of our historical proved reserve estimates are completed in accordance with our internal control procedures. These procedures, which are intended to ensure reliability of reserve estimations, include the following:
●
review and verification of historical production data, which data is based on actual production as reported by us;
●
preparation of reserve estimates by Mr. Gallagher or under his direct supervision;
●
verification of property ownership by our land department.
Estimation of Proved Reserves. Under SEC rules, proved reserves are those quantities of oil and natural gas, which, by analysis of geoscience and engineering data, can be estimated with reasonable certainty to be economically producible-from a given date forward, from known reservoirs and under existing economic conditions, operating methods and government regulations-prior to the time at which contracts providing the right to operate expire, unless evidence indicates that renewal is reasonably certain, regardless of whether deterministic or probabilistic methods are used for the estimation. If deterministic methods are used, the SEC has defined reasonable certainty for proved reserves as a “high degree of confidence that the quantities will be recovered.” All of our proved reserves as of December 31, 2014 and December 31, 2013 were estimated using a deterministic method. The estimation of reserves involves two distinct determinations. The first determination results in the estimation of the quantities of recoverable oil and natural gas and the second determination results in the estimation of the uncertainty associated with those estimated quantities in accordance with the definitions established under SEC rules. The process of estimating the quantities of recoverable oil and natural gas reserves relies on the use of certain generally accepted analytical procedures. These analytical procedures fall into four broad categories or methods: (1) production performance-based methods; (2) material balance-based methods; (3) volumetric-based methods; and (4) analogy. These methods may be used singularly or in combination by the reserve evaluator in the process of estimating the quantities of reserves. Reserves for proved developed producing wells were estimated using production performance methods for the vast majority of properties. Certain new producing properties with very little production history were forecast using a combination of production performance and analogy to similar production, both of which are considered to provide a relatively high degree of accuracy. Non-producing reserve estimates, for developed and undeveloped properties, were forecast using either volumetric or analogy methods, or a combination of both. These methods provide a relatively high degree of accuracy for predicting proved developed non-producing and proved undeveloped reserves for our properties, due to the mature nature of the properties targeted for development and an abundance of subsurface control data.
To estimate economically recoverable proved reserves and related future net cash flows, NSAI considered many factors and assumptions, including the use of reservoir parameters derived from geological and engineering data which cannot be measured directly, economic criteria based on current costs and the SEC pricing requirements and forecasts of future production rates. The current pricing environment could impact future economics.
Under SEC rules, reasonable certainty can be established using techniques that have been proven effective by actual production from projects in the same reservoir or an analogous reservoir or by other evidence using reliable technology that establishes reasonable certainty. Reliable technology is a grouping of one or more technologies (including computational methods) that has been field tested and has been demonstrated to provide reasonably certain results with consistency and repeatability in the formation being evaluated or in an analogous formation. To establish reasonable certainty with respect to our estimated proved reserves, the technologies and economic data used in the estimation of our proved reserves have been demonstrated to yield results with consistency and repeatability, and include production and well test data, downhole completion information, geologic data, electrical logs, radioactivity logs, core analyses, historical well cost and operating expense data.
Summary of Oil, NGLs, and Natural Gas Reserves. The following table presents our estimated net proved oil, NGLs, and natural gas reserves as of the periods indicated:
(1)
One Boe is equal to six Mcf of natural gas or one Bbl of oil or NGLs based on an approximate energy equivalency. This is an energy content correlation and does not reflect a value or price relationship between the commodities.
Reserve engineering is and must be recognized as a subjective process of estimating volumes of economically recoverable oil and natural gas that cannot be measured in an exact manner. The accuracy of any reserve estimate is a function of the quality of available data and of engineering and geological interpretation. As a result, the estimates of different engineers often vary. In addition, the results of drilling, testing and production may justify revisions of such estimates. Accordingly, reserve estimates often differ from the quantities of oil and natural gas that are ultimately recovered. Estimates of economically recoverable oil and natural gas and of future net revenues are based on a number of variables and assumptions, all of which may vary from actual results, including geologic interpretation, prices and future production rates and costs. Please read “Item 1A. Risk Factors.”
Additional information regarding our proved reserves can be found in the notes to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this annual report and the proved reserve report as of December 31, 2014, which is included in this annual report.
Proved Undeveloped Reserves (PUDs)
As of December 31, 2014, our proved undeveloped reserves were composed of 24,070 MBbls of oil, 11,175 MBbls of NGLs, and 58,161 MMcf of natural gas for a total of 44,939 MBoe. PUDs will be converted from undeveloped to developed as the applicable wells begin production.
The following table summarizes our changes in PUDs during the year ended December 31, 2014 (in MBoe):
Extensions and discoveries of 19,256 MBoe during the year ended December 31, 2014, resulted primarily from the drilling of new wells during the year and from new proved undeveloped locations added during the year.
Costs incurred relating to the development of locations that were classified as PUDs at December 31, 2013 were $292.8 million during the year ended December 31, 2014. Additionally, during 2014 we spent approximately $189.0 million drilling and completing other in-field wells which were not classified as PUDs as of December 31, 2013. Estimated future development costs relating to the development of PUDs at December 31, 2014 were projected to be approximately $34.0 million in the year ended December 31, 2015, $325.9 million in 2016, $100.5 million in 2017, $90.7 million in 2018 and $76.3 million in 2019. As we continue to develop our properties and have more well production and completion data, we believe we will continue to realize cost savings and experience
lower relative drilling and completion costs as we convert PUDs into proved developed reserves in upcoming years. All of our PUD drilling locations are scheduled to be drilled within five years of their initial booking.
As of December 31, 2014, less than 1% of our total proved reserves were classified as proved developed non-producing.
Developed and Undeveloped Acreage
The following tables set forth information as of December 31, 2014 relating to our leasehold acreage. Developed acreage is acres spaced or assigned to productive wells and does not include undrilled acreage held by production under the terms of the lease. Undeveloped acreage is acres on which wells have not been drilled or completed to a point that would permit the production of commercial quantities of oil or natural gas, regardless of whether such acreage contains proved reserves. A gross acre is an acre in which a working interest is owned. The number of gross acres is the total number of acres in which a working interest is owned. A net acre is deemed to exist when the sum of the fractional ownership working interests in gross acres equals one. The number of net acres is the sum of the fractional working interests owned in gross acres expressed as whole numbers and fractions thereof.
As of December 31, 2014
(1)
Developed acreage is acres spaced or assigned to productive wells and does not include undrilled acreage held by production under the terms of the lease.
(2)
Undeveloped acreage are acres on which wells have not been drilled or completed to a point that would permit the production of commercial quantities of oil or natural gas, regardless of whether such acreage contains proved reserves.
(3)
A gross acre is an acre in which a working interest is owned. The number of gross acres is the total number of acres in which a working interest is owned.
(4)
A net acre is deemed to exist when the sum of the fractional ownership working interests in gross acres equals one. The number of net acres is the sum of the fractional working interests owned in gross acres expressed as whole numbers and fractions thereof.
Many of the leases comprising the undeveloped acreage set forth in the table above will expire at the end of their respective primary terms unless production from the leasehold acreage has been established prior to such date, in which event the lease will remain in effect until the cessation of production. All of the leases governing our acreage have continuous development clauses that permit us to continue to hold the acreage under such leases after the expiration of the primary term if we initiate additional development within 60 to 180 days of the expiration date, without the requirement of a lease extension payment. Thereafter, the lease is held with additional development every 60 to 180 days until the entire lease is held by production. None of our vertical drilling locations associated with proved undeveloped reserves are scheduled for drilling outside of a lease term that is not accounted for with a continuous development schedule. The following table sets forth the gross and net undeveloped acreage, as of December 31, 2014, that will expire over the next five years unless production is established within the spacing units covering the acreage or the lease is renewed or extended under continuous drilling provisions prior to the primary term expiration dates.
Drilling Results
The following table sets forth information with respect to the number of wells completed during the periods indicated. The information should not be considered indicative of future performance, nor should it be assumed that there is necessarily any correlation between the number of productive wells drilled, quantities of reserves found or economic value. Productive wells are those that produce commercial quantities of hydrocarbons, whether or not they produce a reasonable rate of return.
(1)
Although a well may be classified as productive upon completion, future changes in oil and natural gas prices, operating costs and production may result in the well becoming uneconomical, particularly exploratory wells where there is no production history.
As of December 31, 2014 we had one gross (0.8 net) vertical wells in the process of drilling, one gross (0.8 net) vertical wells awaiting hydraulic fracturing procedures, and two gross (1.8 net) vertical wells in the process of being completed that are not reflected in the above table. In addition, we had four gross (3.5 net) horizontal wells in the process of drilling, two gross (1.2 net) horizontal wells awaiting hydraulic fracturing procedures, and two gross (1.6 net) horizontal wells in the process of being completed that are not reflected in the above table.
Title to Properties
As is customary in the oil and natural gas industry, we initially conduct only a cursory review of the title to our properties in connection with acquisition of leasehold acreage. At such time as we determine to conduct drilling operations on those properties, we conduct a thorough title examination and perform curative work with respect to significant defects prior to commencement of drilling operations. To the extent title opinions or other investigations reflect title defects on those properties, we are typically responsible for curing any title defects at our expense. We generally will not commence drilling operations on a property until we have cured any material title defects on such property. We have obtained title opinions on substantially all of our producing properties and believe that we have satisfactory title to our producing properties in accordance with standards generally accepted in the oil and natural gas industry.
Prior to completing an acquisition of producing oil and natural gas leases, we perform title reviews on the most significant leases and, depending on the materiality of properties, we may obtain a title opinion, obtain an updated title review or opinion or review previously obtained title opinions. Our oil and natural gas properties are subject to customary royalty and other interests, liens for current taxes and other burdens which we believe do not materially interfere with the use of or affect our carrying value of the properties.
We believe that we have satisfactory title to all of our material assets. Although title to these properties is subject to encumbrances in some cases, such as customary interests generally retained in connection with the acquisition of real property, customary royalty interests and contract terms and restrictions, liens under operating agreements, liens related to environmental liabilities associated with historical operations, liens for current taxes and other burdens, easements, restrictions and minor
encumbrances customary in the oil and natural gas industry, we believe that none of these liens, restrictions, easements, burdens and encumbrances will materially detract from the value of these properties or from our interest in these properties or materially interfere with our use of these properties in the operation of our business. In addition, we believe that we have obtained sufficient rights-of-way grants and permits from public authorities and private parties for us to operate our business in all material respects as described in this annual report.
Facilities
Our corporate headquarters is located in Austin, Texas with field operation facilities in Midland, Texas. We believe that our facilities are adequate for our current operations.
ITEM 3.