ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
Our properties are located in the west Texas portion of the Permian Basin. As of December 31, 2018, our acreage position consisted of 267,143 gross (198,946 net) acres, and approximately 76% of our net acres were held by production. As of December 31, 2018, we had interests in 571 gross (442.7 net) producing horizontal wells, of which we operate 453 gross (425.3 net) of the horizontal wells, and interests in 1,244 gross (779.7 net) producing vertical wells, of which we also operate 919 gross (735.7 net) of the vertical wells.
The Permian Basin extends through multiple counties in west Texas and southeastern New Mexico and covers an area some 250 miles wide and 300 miles long. It is comprised of three main sub-areas, the Midland Basin, the Delaware Basin and the Central Basin Platform. Historically, conventional reservoirs have been targeted and successfully produced in all three sub-areas. Over the past 30 years, there has been an increase in multi-stage fracturing treatments targeting and commingling production from multiple tight, stacked pay, unconventional target zones. With the advent of horizontal drilling and the application of multi-stage fracture treatments within one horizontal wellbore, activity has significantly increased, with operators generally targeting one zone at a time.
Core Area Descriptions
We group our assets by area based on similar geologic, economic and technical requirements. We split our assets into two areas, the Midland Basin and the Delaware Basin.
Midland Basin
Throughout the middle and late Pennsylvanian period, the Midland Basin was a very shallow and generally poorly defined area dominated by marine shale and limestone deposition. Organic content of the marine shale increased as the basin slowly subsided. Tectonic uplift of the Central Basin Platform and the coincident emergence of the Eastern Shelf during the early Permian period brought greater definition to the Midland Basin as a distinct physiographic feature. Slow subsidence and basin filling with organic shale and limestone continued to dominate deposition. During the middle Permian period, more emergent surrounding shelf areas to the northwest and south-southwest contributed thick volumes of clastic sand that molded with the shale and limestone and formed the widespread Spraberry target zone throughout the Permian Basin. In the later Permian period, there was basin-wide infilling and subsequent burial with massive evaporate deposition.
The Midland Basin has historically been characterized by production from its most prolific field, the Spraberry Trend Area. The Spraberry Trend Area has been heavily drilled since the discovery of the Seaboard No. 2-D Lee well in Dawson County, Texas in 1949. The zone stretches over 150 miles north to south and over 75 miles east to west. Additionally, activity targeting the deeper Wolfcamp zone increased dramatically after Henry Petroleum started drilling fully through the Wolfcamp zone in the early 2000s. In the late 2000s and early 2010s, many operators, including us, had success commingling still deeper production from the Upper Pennsylvanian (Cline), Strawn and Atoka zones. Concurrently, operators started testing zones singularly with horizontal wells and multi-stage treatments. To date, operators have drilled horizontal wells in multiple zones within the Midland Basin.
As of December 31, 2018, we held 218,525 gross (154,107 net) acres in our Midland Basin area. Approximately 76% of our net acreage in this area is held by production. We had interests in 467 gross (357.5 net) producing horizontal wells in the Midland Basin as of December 31, 2018, and we operated 364 gross (340.8 net) of the horizontal wells in the Midland Basin. We also had interests in 1,176 gross (767.2 net) producing vertical wells.
Following the commencement of our horizontal drilling program in 2013 through December 31, 2018, we have placed on production 357 gross (326.6 net) horizontal wells in the Midland Basin. The table below summarizes the horizontal wells placed on production in the Midland Basin in the periods indicated:
(1)
Although a well may be classified as productive upon completion, future changes in oil and natural gas prices, operating costs and production may result in the well becoming uneconomical, particularly exploratory wells for which there is no production history.
(2)
During the periods presented, we have not drilled any dry development wells, productive exploratory wells or dry exploratory wells.
Delaware Basin
From the mid-Pennsylvanian period to the early Permian period, the Delaware Basin was a slowly subsiding area that was characterized by shallow marine shales and limestone. Influxes of clastic sands generally occurred as turbidite deposits formed during periodic sea-level changes. Records indicate a rapid deepening of the Delaware Basin relative to the emergent Central Basin Platform, during the early Permian period. Marine shale deposition continued to dominate the basin during this period. Episodic pulses of carbonate and clastic debris and density flows punctuated the shale deposition and eventually became significant reservoirs. Through the late Permian period, the basin became increasingly more clastic dominated as emergent shelf areas to the north shed sands into the basin.
As of December 31, 2018, we held 48,618 gross (44,839 net) acres in our Delaware Basin area. Approximately 77% of our net acreage in this area is held by production; however, we hold mineral interests in a significant portion of our Delaware Basin leasehold acreage, which ensures our ability to continue producing from this area. As of December 31, 2018, we had interests in 104 gross (85.2 net) producing horizontal wells in the Delaware Basin, of which 89 gross (84.5 net) horizontal wells were operated by us. We also had interests in 68 gross (12.5 net) producing vertical wells in the Delaware Basin as of December 31, 2018.
Following the commencement of our horizontal drilling program in 2013 through December 31, 2018, we have placed on production 70 gross (67.7 net) horizontal wells in the Delaware Basin. The table below summarizes the horizontal wells placed on production in the Delaware Basin in the periods indicated:
(1)
Although a well may be classified as productive upon completion, future changes in oil and natural gas prices, operating costs and production may result in the well becoming uneconomical, particularly exploratory wells for which there is no production history.
(2)
During the periods presented, we have not drilled any dry development wells, productive exploratory wells or dry exploratory wells.
Production Status
For the year ended December 31, 2018, our average daily net sales from our wells on our Midland Basin acreage was 86,127 Boe/d, of which 60% was from oil, 17% was from natural gas and 23% was from NGLs. Over the same period, our average daily net sales from our wells on our Delaware Basin acreage was 23,289 Boe/d, of which 76% was from oil, 11% was from natural gas and 13% was from NGLs.
Operational Facilities
Our land-based oil and natural gas processing facilities are typical of those found in the Permian Basin. Our facilities at well locations or centralized lease locations include storage tank batteries, oil/natural gas/water separation equipment, and pumping units. In addition, throughout our acreage, we own and operate facilities with significant water sourcing, transfer, and disposal capacity.
Recent Activity
During the year ended December 31, 2018, we spud 132 gross (127.9 net) horizontal wells and two gross (1.7 net) vertical wells on our Midland Basin acreage. We also spud 38 gross (37.3 net) horizontal wells on our Delaware Basin acreage.
During the year ended December 31, 2018, we incurred costs of approximately $1,096.3 million and $408.6 million for our Midland Basin and Delaware Basin horizontal drilling and completions, respectively. We incurred costs of approximately $5.2 million for vertical drilling, completions and recompletions. We also incurred costs of approximately $252.1 million associated with facilities and infrastructure.
The amount and timing of our future capital expenditures is largely discretionary and within our control. We could choose to defer a portion of planned capital expenditures depending on a variety of factors, including, but not limited to, the success of our drilling activities, prevailing and anticipated prices for oil and natural gas, the availability of necessary equipment, infrastructure and capital, the receipt and timing of required regulatory permits and approvals, seasonal conditions, drilling and acquisition costs and the level of participation by other working interest owners.
Production, Price and Cost Data
The following table sets forth information regarding our production of oil, natural gas and NGLs and certain price and cost information, for the periods indicated:
For additional information, see “Item 1. Business-Oil and Natural Gas Production Prices and Production Costs-Production and Price History,” which is incorporated herein by reference.
Evaluation and Review of Proved Reserves
Estimates of our proved reserves as of December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 were based on evaluations prepared by our internal staff of petroleum engineers and audited by NSAI. We have no oil and natural gas reserves from non-traditional sources. Additionally, we do not provide optional disclosure of probable or possible reserves. NSAI does not own an interest in any of our properties, nor is it employed by us on a contingent basis.
Reserve estimation procedures. We maintain an internal staff of petroleum engineers and geoscience professionals (the “Reserves Group”) to ensure the integrity, accuracy and timeliness of the data used in our reserves estimation process. We have established internal controls over reserve estimation processes and procedures to support the accurate and timely preparation and disclosure of reserve estimates in accordance with SEC requirements. These controls include oversight of the reserves estimation reporting process by our Vice President-Reservoir Engineering and Planning who reports directly to our Executive Vice President-Chief Operating Officer as well as annual external audits of our proved reserves by NSAI.
In addition, we maintain a Reserves Planning and Disclosure Committee that is chaired by our Vice President-Reservoir Engineering and Planning. The Reserves Planning and Disclosure Committee is also comprised of certain members of our management team and other employees relevant to the reserves process. The Reserves Planning and Disclosure Committee meets on a regular basis to review our reserves estimates, advise management of any material reserve adjustments and review and approve our annual reserve estimates filed with the SEC and any other public disclosure of reserve estimates. We also maintain a Reserves Committee of our board of directors (the “Reserves Committee”) that meets regularly to, among other things, review our reserves estimates, advise our board of directors on any material reserve adjustments, review and approve our annual reserves estimates filed with the SEC and periodically interface with our independent, third-party petroleum consulting firm.
The reserve estimates are summarized in reserve reconciliations that quantify reserve changes from the previous year end as revisions of previous estimates, purchases of minerals-in-place, improved recovery, extensions and discoveries, production and sales of minerals-in-place. All reserve estimates, material assumptions and inputs used in reserve estimates and significant changes in reserve estimates are reviewed for engineering and financial appropriateness and compliance with SEC and GAAP standards by the Reserves Group, in consultation with our accounting and financial management personnel. Annually, our Executive Vice President-Chief Operating Officer, Vice President-Reservoir Engineering and Planning and the Reserves Planning and Disclosure Committee review the reserve estimates and any differences with the reserve auditors on a consolidated basis before these estimates are approved by the Reserves Committee and our board of directors.
Reserve information as well as models used to estimate such reserves are stored on secured databases. Non-technical information used in reserve estimation models, including oil, natural gas and NGLs prices, production costs, transportation costs, future capital expenditures and our net ownership percentages are obtained from other departments. Internally, we conduct testing with respect to such non-technical inputs.
Proved reserves audits. The proved reserve audits performed by NSAI for the year ended December 31, 2018, in the aggregate, represented 100% of our year-end 2018 proved reserves, and 100% of our year-end 2018 associated pre-tax present value of proved reserves discounted at ten percent.
NSAI follows the general principles set forth in the “Standards Pertaining to the Estimating and Auditing of Oil and Gas Reserve Information” promulgated by the Society of Petroleum Engineers (the “SPE”). A reserve audit as defined by the SPE is not the same as a financial audit. The SPE’s definition of a reserve audit includes the following concepts:
•
A reserve audit is an examination of reserve information that is conducted for the purpose of expressing an opinion as to whether such reserve information, in the aggregate, is reasonable and has been presented in conformity with the 2007 SPE publication entitled “Standards Pertaining to the Estimating and Auditing of Oil and Gas Reserves Information.”
•
The estimation of reserves is an imprecise science due to the many unknown geologic and reservoir factors that cannot be estimated through sampling techniques. Since reserves are only estimates, they cannot be audited for the purpose of verifying exactness. Instead, reserve information is audited for the purpose of reviewing in sufficient detail the policies, procedures and methods used by a company in estimating its reserves so that the reserve auditors may express an opinion as to whether, in the aggregate, the reserve information furnished by a company is reasonable.
•
The methods and procedures used by a company and the reserve information furnished by a company must be reviewed in sufficient detail to permit the reserve auditor, in its professional judgment, to express an opinion as to the reasonableness of the reserve information. The auditing procedures require the reserve auditor to prepare their own estimates of reserve information for the audited properties.
In conjunction with the audit of our proved reserves and associated pre-tax present value of proved reserves discounted at 10%, the Reserves Group provided to NSAI its external and internal engineering and geoscience technical data and analyses. NSAI accepted without independent verification the accuracy and completeness of the historical information and data furnished by us with respect to ownership interest, oil and natural gas production, well test data, commodity prices, operating and development costs, and any agreements relating to current and future operations of the properties and sales of production. However, if in the course of its evaluations something came to its attention that brought into question the validity or sufficiency of any such information or data, NSAI did not rely on such information or data until it had satisfactorily resolved its questions relating thereto or had independently verified such information or data.
In the course of its evaluations, NSAI prepared, for all of the audited properties, its own estimates of our proved reserves and the pre-tax present values of such reserves discounted at 10%. NSAI reviewed its audit differences with us, and, as necessary, held meetings with us to review additional reserves work performed by our technical teams and any updated performance data related to the proved reserve differences. Such data was incorporated, as appropriate, by both parties into the proved reserve estimates. NSAI’s estimates, including any adjustments resulting from additional data, of those proved reserves and the pre-tax present value of such reserves discounted at 10% did not differ from our estimates by more than 10% in the aggregate. However, when compared on a lease-by-lease basis, some of our estimates were greater than those of the reserve auditors and some were less than the estimates of the reserve auditors. When such differences do not exceed 10% in the aggregate and NSAI is satisfied that the proved reserves and pre-tax present values of such reserves discounted at 10% are reasonable and that its audit objectives have been met, NSAI will issue an unqualified audit opinion. At the conclusion of the audit process, it was NSAI’s opinion, as set forth in its audit letter, which is included as an exhibit to this Annual Report, that our estimates of our proved oil and natural gas reserves and associated pre-tax present values discounted at 10% are, in the aggregate, reasonable and have been prepared in accordance with the “Standards Pertaining to the Estimating and Auditing of Oil and Gas Reserves Information” promulgated by the SPE.
Qualifications of proved reserves preparers and auditors. The Reserves Group is staffed by petroleum and geoscience professionals with extensive industry experience and the process is managed by our Vice President-Reservoir Engineering and Planning, the technical person primarily responsible for overseeing the preparation of all of our reserve estimates. The qualifications of our Vice President-Reservoir Engineering and Planning include over 16 years of reservoir and operations experience. She holds a Bachelor of Science in Petroleum Engineering and a Master of Science in Global Energy Management. She is also a member of multiple professional industry organizations. Our Vice President-Reservoir Engineering and Planning reports directly to our Executive Vice President-Chief Operating Officer, whose qualifications include over 15 years of reservoir and operations experience. He graduated with a Bachelor of Science in Petroleum Engineering and a Master of Business Administration and is a member of various professional industry organizations. Our Reserves Group has an average of approximately 12 years of industry experience per person.
As described above, following the preparation of our reserves estimates, these estimates are audited for their reasonableness by NSAI. NSAI provides worldwide petroleum property analysis services for energy clients, financial organizations and government agencies. NSAI was founded in 1961 and performs consulting petroleum engineering services under Texas Board of Professional Engineers Registration No.. The technical person primarily responsible for auditing our reserves estimates has been a practicing consulting petroleum engineer at NSAI since 1998 and has over 37 years of practical experience in petroleum engineering and meets or exceeds the education, training and experience requirements set forth in the “Standards Pertaining to the Estimating and Auditing of Oil and Gas Reserves Information” promulgated by the SPE.
Estimation of Proved Reserves. Under SEC rules, proved reserves are those quantities of oil and natural gas, which, by analysis of geoscience and engineering data, can be estimated with reasonable certainty to be economically producible-from a given date forward, from known reservoirs and under existing economic conditions, operating methods and government regulations-prior to the time at which contracts providing the right to operate expire, unless evidence indicates that renewal is reasonably certain, regardless of whether deterministic or probabilistic methods are used for the estimation. If deterministic methods are used, the SEC has defined reasonable certainty for proved reserves as a “high degree of confidence that the quantities will be recovered.” All of our proved reserves as of December 31, 2018 and 2017 were estimated using a deterministic method. The estimation of reserves involves two distinct determinations. The first determination results in the estimation of the quantities of recoverable oil and natural gas and the second determination results in the estimation of the uncertainty associated with those estimated quantities in accordance with the definitions established under SEC rules. The
process of estimating the quantities of recoverable oil and natural gas reserves relies on the use of certain generally accepted analytical procedures. These analytical procedures fall into four broad categories or methods: (1) production performance-based methods; (2) material balance-based methods; (3) volumetric-based methods; and (4) analogy. These methods may be used singularly or in combination by the reserve evaluator in the process of estimating the quantities of reserves. Reserves for proved developed producing wells were estimated using production performance methods for the vast majority of properties. Certain new producing properties with very little production history were forecast using a combination of production performance and analogy to similar production, both of which are considered to provide a relatively high degree of accuracy. Non-producing reserve estimates, for developed and undeveloped properties, were forecast using either volumetric or analogy methods, or a combination of both. We believe that these methods provide a relatively high degree of accuracy for predicting proved developed non-producing and proved undeveloped reserves for our properties, due to the mature nature of the properties targeted for development and an abundance of subsurface control data.
To audit our estimates of economically recoverable proved reserves and related future net cash flows, NSAI considered many factors and assumptions, including the use of reservoir parameters derived from geological and engineering data which cannot be measured directly, economic criteria based on current costs and the SEC pricing requirements and forecasts of future production rates. The current pricing environment could impact future economics.
Under SEC rules, reasonable certainty can be established using techniques that have been proven effective by actual production from projects in the same reservoir or an analogous reservoir or by other evidence using reliable technology that establishes reasonable certainty. Reliable technology is a grouping of one or more technologies (including computational methods) that has been field tested and has been demonstrated to provide reasonably certain results with consistency and repeatability in the target zone being evaluated or in an analogous target zone. To establish reasonable certainty with respect to our estimated proved reserves, the technologies and economic data used in the estimation of our proved reserves have been demonstrated to yield results with consistency and repeatability and include production and well test data, downhole completion information, geologic data, electrical logs, radioactivity logs, core analyses, historical well cost and operating expense data.
The following table sets forth the combined production volumes and reserves by area (in MBoe):
Summary of Oil, Natural Gas and NGLs Reserves. The following table presents our estimated net proved oil, natural gas and NGLs reserves as of the periods indicated:
Reserve engineering is and must be recognized as a subjective process of estimating volumes of economically recoverable oil and natural gas that cannot be measured in an exact manner. The accuracy of any reserve estimate is a function of the quality of available data and of engineering and geological interpretation. As a result, the estimates of different engineers often vary. In addition, the results of drilling, testing and production may justify revisions of such estimates. Accordingly, reserve estimates will differ from the quantities of oil and natural gas that are ultimately recovered. Estimates of economically recoverable oil and natural gas and of future net revenues are based on a number of variables and assumptions, all of which may vary from actual results, including geologic interpretation, prices and future production rates and costs. Please read “Item 1A. Risk Factors.”
Impact of ASC Topic 606 Adoption
We adopted ASC 606 effective January 1, 2018 using the modified retrospective approach. As a result of the control model analysis discussed in “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Factors Affecting Comparability of Our Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Impact of ASC Topic 606 Adoption,” we modified our accounting and presentation of natural gas and NGLs sales and associated volumes, and transportation and processing costs, under certain marketing agreements. Revenues related to certain of our agreements are presented on a gross basis for amounts expected to be received from third-party customers through the marketing process. Transportation and processing costs related to these agreements, incurred prior to the transfer of control to the customer at the tailgate of the natural gas processing facilities, are presented as Transportation and processing costs on our consolidated statements of operations. Additionally, all references to production and per Boe unit costs reflect this adoption, which has the effect of increasing certain natural gas and NGLs volumes and revenues, offset by a corresponding transportation and processing expense, such that there is no change to reported net income. Refer to Note 3-Revenue from Contracts with Customers-Impact of ASC Topic 606 Adoption in our consolidated financial statements for additional discussion.
All comparisons to prior period sales, expenses, production volumes and unit costs reflect the changes in reporting methodology for the year ended December 31, 2018. Additionally, the changes in natural gas and NGLs reserve volumes are reflected as revisions of previous estimates.
Proved Reserves
As of December 31, 2018, our proved reserves were composed of 294,446 MBbls of oil, 572,038 MMcf of natural gas and 131,933 MBbls of NGLs, for a total of 521,719 MBoe.
The following table summarizes the changes in our proved reserves during the year ended December 31, 2018 (in MBoe):
Changes in our proved reserves during the year ended December 31, 2018 primarily resulted from the following significant factors:
Purchases of reserves. During the year ended December 31, 2018, we added 5,613 MBoe of proved reserves, primarily as a result of the acquisition of incremental working interests in properties and undeveloped acreage in both the Midland and Delaware Basins. For the year ended December 31, 2018, we acquired 5,550 MBoe of proved reserves in the Midland Basin and 63 MBoe of proved reserves in the Delaware Basin.
Divestiture of reserves. During the year ended December 31, 2018, we divested 22,465 MBoe of proved reserves, which includes 22,372 MBoe of proved reserves in the Midland Basin and 93 MBoe of proved reserves in the Delaware Basin.
Extensions and discoveries. Extensions and discoveries of 159,778 MBoe during the year ended December 31, 2018 resulted primarily from our successful horizontal drilling program in the Midland Basin and Delaware Basin, of which approximately 30% is associated with proved undeveloped locations.
Revisions of previous estimates. During the year ended December 31, 2018, we experienced total positive revisions of previous estimates of 2,283 MBoe. The main driver of this adjustment was due to the adoption of ASC 606, which resulted in a positive revision of 11,434 MBoe associated with natural gas and NGLs. Please refer to “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Factors Affecting Comparability of Our Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Impact of ASC Topic 606 Adoption.” Other drivers included changes in well performance, working interest, operating expenses and pricing, which together resulted in a positive revision of 3,063 MBoe. The reclassification of certain PUD reserves to unproved reserves accounted for a 12,214 MBoe downward revision to previous estimates related to
the removal of reserves for proved undeveloped locations determined to be outside of our five-year capital expenditure plan. For additional discussion, please refer to “-Capital Development Plan” below.
Production. During the year ended December 31, 2018, our production volumes were 39,937 MBoe resulting in a corresponding decrease in our proved reserves.
As of December 31, 2018, 1,320 MBoe, or less than one percent of our total proved reserves, were classified as proved developed non-producing.
Proved Undeveloped Reserves (PUDs)
As of December 31, 2018, our proved undeveloped reserves were composed of 123,920 MBbls of oil, 213,305 MMcf of natural gas and 50,933 MBbls of NGLs, for a total of 210,404 MBoe. PUDs will be converted from undeveloped to developed as the applicable wells begin production.
The following table summarizes the changes in our PUDs during the year ended December 31, 2018 (in MBoe):
Changes in our PUDs during the year ended December 31, 2018 primarily resulted from the following significant factors:
Purchases of reserves. During the year ended December 31, 2018, we added 3,061 MBoe of PUDs, primarily as a result of the acquisition of undeveloped acreage in the Midland Basin.
Divestiture of reserves. During the year ended December 31, 2018, we divested 12,395 MBoe of PUDs, all of which were in the Midland Basin.
Extensions and discoveries. Extensions and discoveries of 47,998 MBoe during the year ended December 31, 2018 resulted primarily from the drilling of new wells during the year and from new proved undeveloped locations added during the year.
Revisions of previous estimates. During the year ended December 31, 2018, we experienced total negative revisions to previous PUD reserve estimates of 5,630 MBoe. The main driver of this adjustment was the reclassification of certain PUD reserves to unproved reserves, which accounted for a 12,214 MBoe downward revision to previous estimates associated with the removal of reserves for locations determined to be outside of our five-year capital expenditure plan. We also experienced positive revisions of 1,898 MBoe related to the adoption of ASC 606 and 4,686 MBoe associated with changes to our type curves, shrinkage and yield, lease operating expenses, pricing and capital expenditures. Please refer to “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Factors Affecting Comparability of Our Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Impact of ASC Topic 606 Adoption” for additional discussion.
Transfers to proved developed. During the year ended December 31, 2018, we transferred 29,678 MBoe of PUDs to proved developed. This includes all proved undeveloped locations that were scheduled to be transfered to proved developed during 2018 as of December 31, 2017.
Capital Development Plan
At the end of each year, we schedule a five-year capital expenditure plan based on our best available data and financial feasibility at the time the plan is developed. In connection with the adoption of our capital expenditure plan, we prepare a field-level plan that includes the timing, location and capital commitment of wells that we expect to be drilled. Our capital expenditure plan includes only PUD reserves that we are reasonably certain, based on SEC pricing at the time of adoption, will be drilled within five years of booking based upon management's evaluation of a number of qualitative and quantitative factors,
including: estimated risk-based returns; estimated well density; cost forecasts; recent drilling, recompletion or re-stimulation results and well performance; anticipated availability of services, equipment, supplies and personnel; seasonal weather; and changes in drilling and completion techniques and technology. Our PUD reserves do not include reserves associated with non-operated properties. This process is intended to ensure that PUD reserves are only booked for locations where a final investment decision has been made by us. Our five-year development plan generally does not contemplate a uniform conversion of PUD reserves in all of its producing areas or over the five-year period covered by such plan. Our board of directors annually reviews our expenditure plan and approves the capital budget for the first year of the development plan, including with respect to any material changes made to the plan during the prior year as a result of the factors discussed below.
Following the adoption of our development plan based on information available at the time of such adoption, we review and, if the circumstances warrant, may revise the capital expenditure plan throughout the year and modify the plan after evaluating a number of factors, including: operational results; decreases in, or volatility of commodity prices; estimated risk-based returns; cost and availability of services, equipment and resources; acquisition and divestiture activity; and our current and projected financial condition and liquidity. Based on the foregoing review, we update our development plan each quarter to reflect any necessary changes, and such changes are then reviewed and approved by our senior management. Any material deviations from our capital expenditure budget and development plan are discussed with the Reserves Committee and our board of directors.
Annually and periodically as circumstances warrant, the Reserves Group conducts a detailed review on a lease-by-lease basis to assess whether potential PUD locations remain reasonably certain to be drilled on a timely basis within five years from their initial booking. If, upon completion of such review, the Reserves Group determines that any of the potential PUD locations that it identified may be unlikely to be transferred from PUDs to proved developed reserves within their anticipated development timeline, such locations are then reviewed by our senior management to determine whether we expect to have sufficient committed capital and other resources necessary to commit to the proposed development plan. If our senior management determines that a proposed PUD location is not reasonably certain to be drilled within five years of initial booking or we do not have sufficient committed capital to pursue its development, that PUD location is excluded from our subsequent estimation of our proved reserves and re-classified to non-proved reserve categories.
Costs incurred relating to the development of locations that were classified as PUDs at December 31, 2017 were approximately $308.1 million during the year ended December 31, 2018. Additionally, during 2018, we spent approximately $1,107.1 million drilling and completing other in-field wells which were not classified as proved as of December 31, 2017. Estimated future development costs relating to the development of PUDs at December 31, 2018 were projected to be approximately $498.0 million in 2019. We intend to finance such development costs with cash on hand, cash flow from operations and borrowings under our Revolving Credit Agreement. As of December 31, 2018, all of our PUD drilling locations were scheduled to be drilled within five years of their initial booking.
Additional information regarding our proved reserves can be found in the notes to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report and the audit letter relating to the proved reserve report as of December 31, 2018, which is included as an exhibit to this Annual Report.
Developed and Undeveloped Acreage
The following tables set forth information as of December 31, 2018 relating to our leasehold acreage.
(1)
Developed acreage is acreage spaced or assigned to productive wells and does not include undrilled acreage held by production under the terms of the applicable lease.
(2)
Undeveloped acreage is acreage on which wells have not been drilled or completed to a point that would permit the production of commercial quantities of oil or natural gas, regardless of whether such acreage contains proved reserves.
(3)
A gross acre is an acre in which a working interest is owned. The number of gross acres is the total number of acres in which a working interest is owned.
(4)
A net acre is deemed to exist when the sum of the fractional ownership working interests in gross acres equals one. The number of net acres is the sum of the fractional working interests owned in gross acres expressed as whole numbers and fractions thereof.
In addition to the leasehold acreage described above, as of December 31, 2018, we held mineral rights in 34,670 acres, with an average royalty interest of 20%. These mineral rights and associated royalty interests boost net revenue interest in our applicable properties.
Many of the leases comprising the undeveloped acreage set forth in the table above will expire at the end of their respective primary terms unless production from the leasehold acreage has been established prior to such date, in which event the lease will remain in effect until the cessation of production. Most of the leases governing our acreage have continuous development clauses that permit us to continue to hold the acreage under such leases after the expiration of the primary term if we initiate additional development within 60 to 180 days of the expiration date, without the requirement of a lease extension payment. Thereafter, generally the leases are held with additional development every 60 to 180 days until the entire lease is held by production. The following table sets forth the gross and net undeveloped acreage, as of December 31, 2018, that will expire over the next five years unless production is established within the spacing units covering the acreage or the lease is renewed or extended under continuous drilling provisions prior to the primary term expiration dates.
As of December 31, 2018, of the total net PUD reserves associated with the expiring acreage set forth in the table above, an immaterial amount of those net PUD reserves are associated with drilling locations scheduled to be drilled after expiration of the applicable leasehold.
Drilling Results
The following table sets forth information with respect to the number of wells completed during the periods indicated. The information should not be considered indicative of future performance, nor should it be assumed that there is any correlation between the number of productive wells drilled, quantities of reserves found or economic value. Productive wells are those that produce commercial quantities of hydrocarbons, whether or not they produce a reasonable rate of return.
(1)
Includes extension wells.
(2)
Although a well may be classified as productive upon completion, future changes in oil and natural gas prices, operating costs and production may result in the well becoming uneconomical, particularly exploratory wells for which there is no production history.
As of December 31, 2018, in the Midland Basin, we had 16 gross (15.7 net) horizontal wells in the process of being drilled and 17 (16.3 net) horizontal wells awaiting hydraulic fracturing procedures that, in each case, are not reflected in the above table. In the Delaware Basin, we had 17 gross (16.7 net) horizontal wells in the process of being drilled and seven gross (6.8 net) horizontal wells awaiting hydraulic fracturing procedures that, in each case, are not reflected in the above table.
For additional information regarding our productive wells, see “Item 1. Business-Oil and Natural Gas Production Prices and Production Costs-Productive Wells,” which is incorporated herein by reference.
Title to Properties
As is customary in the oil and natural gas industry, when we acquire leasehold acreage, we conduct title due diligence on the subject properties but may not obtain title opinions covering the properties prior to entering into a purchase and sale agreement. At the time we determine to conduct drilling operations on those properties, we conduct a thorough title examination and perform curative work with respect to significant defects prior to commencing drilling operations. To the extent title opinions or other investigations completed after the closing of an acquisition reflect title defects on those properties, we are typically responsible for curing any title defects at our expense. We generally will not commence drilling operations on a property until we have cured any material title defects on such property. We have obtained title opinions on substantially all
of our producing properties and believe that we have satisfactory title to our producing properties in accordance with standards generally accepted in the oil and natural gas industry.
Prior to completing an acquisition of producing oil and natural gas leases, we perform title reviews on the most significant leases and, depending on the materiality of properties, we may obtain a title opinion, obtain an updated title review or opinion or review previously obtained title opinions. Our oil and natural gas properties are subject to customary royalty and other interests, liens for current taxes and other burdens which we believe do not materially interfere with our use of or affect the carrying value of the properties.
We believe that we have satisfactory title to all of our material assets. Although title to these properties is subject to encumbrances in some cases, such as customary interests generally retained in connection with the acquisition of real property, customary royalty interests and contract terms and restrictions, liens under operating agreements, liens related to environmental liabilities associated with historical operations, liens for current taxes and other burdens, easements, restrictions and minor encumbrances customary in the oil and natural gas industry, we believe that none of these liens, restrictions, easements, burdens and encumbrances will materially detract from the value of these properties or from our interest in these properties or materially interfere with our use of these properties in the operation of our business. In addition, we believe that we have obtained sufficient rights-of-way grants and permits from public authorities and private parties for us to operate our business in all material respects as described in this Annual Report.
Facilities
As of December 31, 2018, we leased corporate office space in Austin, Texas at 303 Colorado Street, where our corporate headquarters is located, and at certain other locations in downtown Austin. We also leased corporate office space in Midland, Texas and owned field operation facilities in Midland and Fort Stockton, Texas. We believe that our facilities are adequate for our current operations.
During 2017, we entered into an agreement with a third party to lease commercial office space in a building being constructed at 300 Colorado Street, Austin, Texas. Upon its completion, we expect to move our corporate headquarters to this location.
Transportation and Delivery Commitments
For information regarding the transportation of our oil and natural gas, production and our contractual commitments related thereto, see “Item 1. Business-Oil and Natural Gas Production Prices and Production Costs-Transportation and Delivery Commitments,” which is incorporated herein by reference.
ITEM 3.