ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
Our properties are located in the West Texas portion of the Permian Basin. As of December 31, 2017, our acreage position consisted of 351,857 gross (219,747 net) acres, approximately 72% of which is held by production. As of December 31, 2017, we had interests in 372 gross (282.6 net) producing horizontal wells, of which we operate 80%, and interests in 1,532 gross (749.0 net) producing vertical wells, of which we also operate 70% .
The Permian Basin extends through multiple counties in Southeast New Mexico and West Texas and covers an area some 250 miles wide and 300 miles long. It is comprised of three main sub-areas, the Delaware Basin, the Central Basin Platform and the Midland Basin. Historically, conventional reservoirs have been targeted and successfully produced in all three sub-areas. Over the past 30 years, there has been an increase in multi-stage fracturing treatments targeting and commingling production from multiple tight, stacked pay, unconventional target zones. With the advent of horizontal drilling and the application of multi-stage fracture treatments within one horizontal wellbore, activity has significantly increased, with operators generally targeting one zone at a time.
Core Area Descriptions
We group our assets by area based on similar geologic, economic and technical requirements. We split our assets into two areas, the Midland Basin and the Delaware Basin.
Midland Basin
Throughout the middle and late Pennsylvanian period, the Midland Basin was a very shallow and generally poorly defined area dominated by marine shale and limestone deposition. Organic content of the marine shale increased as the basin slowly subsided. Tectonic uplift of the Central Basin Platform and the coincident emergence of the Eastern Shelf during the early Permian period brought greater definition to the Midland Basin as a distinct physiographic feature. Slow subsidence and basin filling with organic shale and limestone continued to dominate deposition. During the middle Permian period, more emergent surrounding shelf areas to the northwest and south-southwest contributed thick volumes of clastic sand that molded with the shale and limestone and formed the widespread Spraberry target zone throughout the Permian Basin. In the later Permian period, there was basin-wide infilling and subsequent burial with massive evaporate deposition.
The Midland Basin has historically been characterized by production from its most prolific field, the Spraberry Trend Area. The Spraberry Trend Area has been heavily drilled since the discovery of the Seaboard No. 2-D Lee well in Dawson County, Texas in 1949. The zone stretches over 150 miles north to south and over 75 miles east to west. Additionally, activity targeting the deeper Wolfcamp zone increased dramatically after Henry Petroleum started drilling fully through the Wolfcamp zone in the early 2000s. In the late 2000s and early 2010s, many operators, including us, had success commingling still deeper production from the Upper Pennsylvanian (Cline), Strawn and Atoka zones. Concurrently, operators started testing zones singularly with horizontal wells and multi-stage treatments. To date, operators have drilled horizontal wells in multiple zones within the Midland Basin.
As of December 31, 2017, we held 301,160 gross (174,392 net) acres in our Midland Basin area. Approximately 73% of our acreage in this area is held by production. We had interests in 319 gross (241.0 net) producing horizontal wells in the Midland Basin as of December 31, 2017, and we operated 78% of the horizontal wells in the Midland Basin in which we had an interest. We also had interests in 1,444 gross (731.5 net) producing vertical wells.
Since commencing our horizontal program in 2013, through December 31, 2017 we have drilled and completed 231 gross (216.1 net) horizontal wells in the Midland Basin. The table below summarizes the horizontal and vertical productive development wells drilled and completed in the Midland Basin in the periods indicated:
(1)
Although a well may be classified as productive upon completion, future changes in oil and natural gas prices, operating costs and production may result in the well becoming uneconomical, particularly exploratory wells for which there is no production history.
(2)
During the periods presented, we have not drilled any dry development wells, productive exploratory wells or dry exploratory wells.
Delaware Basin
From the mid-Pennsylvanian period to the early Permian period, the Delaware Basin was a slowly subsiding area that was characterized by shallow marine shales and limestone. Influxes of clastic sands generally occurred as turbidite deposits formed during periodic sea-level changes. Records indicate a rapid deepening of the Delaware Basin relative to the emergent Central Basin Platform, during the early Permian period. Marine shale deposition continued to dominate the basin during this period. Episodic pulses of carbonate and clastic debris and density flows punctuated the shale deposition and eventually became significant reservoirs. Through the late Permian period, the basin became increasingly more clastic dominated as emergent shelf areas to the north shed sands into the basin.
As of December 31, 2017, we held 50,697 gross (45,355 net) acres in our Delaware Basin area. Approximately 63% of our acreage in this area is held by production; however, we hold mineral interests in a significant portion of our Delaware Basin leasehold acreage, which ensures our ability to continue producing from this area. As of December 31, 2017, we had interests in 53 gross (41.6 net) producing horizontal wells in the Delaware Basin, of which we operate 87%. We also have interest in 88 gross (17.5 net) producing vertical wells.
Since commencing our horizontal program in 2013 through December 31, 2017, we have drilled and completed 37 gross (35.6 net) horizontal wells in the Delaware Basin. The table below summarizes the horizontal and vertical wells drilled and completed in the Delaware Basin in the periods indicated:
(1)
Although a well may be classified as productive upon completion, future changes in oil and natural gas prices, operating costs and production may result in the well becoming uneconomical, particularly exploratory wells for which there is no production history.
(2)
During the periods presented, we have not drilled any dry development wells, productive exploratory wells or dry exploratory wells.
Production Status
For the year ended December 31, 2017, our average daily net sales from our wells on our Midland Basin acreage was 59,291 Boe/d, of which 65% was from oil, 16% was from natural gas and 19% was from NGLs. Over the same period, our average daily net sales from our wells on our Delaware Basin acreage was 8,632 Boe/d, of which 73% was from oil, 13% was from natural gas and 14% was from NGLs.
Operational Facilities
Our land-based oil and natural gas processing facilities are typical of those found in the Permian Basin. Our facilities located at well locations or centralized lease locations include storage tank batteries, oil/natural gas/water separation equipment, and pumping units. In addition, throughout our acreage, we own and operate facilities with significant water sourcing, transfer, and disposal capacity.
Recent Activity
During the year ended December 31, 2017, we spud 112 gross (108.5 net) horizontal wells and seven gross (6.9 net) vertical wells on our Midland Basin acreage. We also spud 43 gross (41.4 net) horizontal wells on our Delaware Basin acreage.
During the year ended December 31, 2017, we incurred costs of approximately $714.5 million and $8.0 million for horizontal drilling and completions and vertical drilling and completions, respectively, on our Midland Basin acreage. We incurred costs of approximately $325.8 million and $1.3 million for horizontal drilling and completions and vertical recompletions, respectively, on our Delaware Basin acreage. We also incurred costs of approximately $157.8 million associated with facilities and infrastructure.
The amount and timing of our future capital expenditures is largely discretionary and within our control. We could choose to defer a portion of planned capital expenditures depending on a variety of factors, including, but not limited to, the success of our drilling activities, prevailing and anticipated prices for oil and natural gas, the availability of necessary equipment, infrastructure and capital, the receipt and timing of required regulatory permits and approvals, seasonal conditions, drilling and acquisition costs and the level of participation by other working interest owners.
Production, Price and Cost Data
The following table sets forth information regarding our production of oil, natural gas and NGLs and certain price and cost information, for the periods indicated:
Evaluation and Review of Proved Reserves
Estimates of our proved reserves as of December 31, 2017 and 2016 were based on evaluations prepared by our internal staff of petroleum engineers and audited by NSAI, with respect to our major properties. We have no oil and natural gas reserves from non-traditional sources. Additionally, we do not provide optional disclosure of probable or possible reserves. Our historical proved reserve estimates as of December 31, 2015 were prepared based on reports by NSAI. NSAI does not own an interest in any of our properties, nor is it employed by us on a contingent basis.
Reserve estimation procedures. We maintain an internal staff of petroleum engineers and geoscience professionals (the “Reserves Group”) to ensure the integrity, accuracy and timeliness of the data used in our reserves estimation process. We have established internal controls over reserve estimation processes and procedures to support the accurate and timely preparation and disclosure of reserve estimates in accordance with SEC requirements. These controls include oversight of the reserves estimation reporting process by our Senior Vice President-Development Operations who reports directly to our President and Chief Operating Officer as well as annual external audits of our proved reserves by NSAI.
The reserve estimates are summarized in reserve reconciliations that quantify reserve changes since the previous year end as revisions of previous estimates, purchases of minerals-in-place, improved recovery, extensions and discoveries, production and sales of minerals-in-place. All reserve estimates, material assumptions and inputs used in reserve estimates and significant changes in reserve estimates are reviewed for engineering and financial appropriateness and compliance with SEC and GAAP standards by the Reserves Group, in consultation with our accounting and financial management personnel. Annually, our President and Chief Operating Officer reviews the reserve estimates and any differences with the reserve auditors on a consolidated basis before these estimates are approved.
Reserve information as well as models used to estimate such reserves are stored on secured databases. Non-technical information used in reserve estimation models, including oil, natural gas and NGLs prices, production costs, transportation costs, future capital expenditures and our net ownership percentages are obtained from other departments. Internally, we conduct testing with respect to such non-technical inputs.
Proved reserves audits. The proved reserve audits performed by NSAI for the year ended December 31, 2017, in the aggregate, represented 100% of our year-end 2017 proved reserves; and 100% of our year-end 2017 associated pre-tax present value of proved reserves discounted at ten percent.
NSAI follows the general principles set forth in the “Standards Pertaining to the Estimating and Auditing of Oil and Gas Reserve Information” promulgated by the Society of Petroleum Engineers (the “SPE”). A reserve audit as defined by the SPE is not the same as a financial audit. The SPE’s definition of a reserve audit includes the following concepts:
•
A reserve audit is an examination of reserve information that is conducted for the purpose of expressing an opinion as to whether such reserve information, in the aggregate, is reasonable and has been presented in conformity with the 2007 SPE publication entitled “Standards Pertaining to the Estimating and Auditing of Oil and Gas Reserves Information.”
•
The estimation of reserves is an imprecise science due to the many unknown geologic and reservoir factors that cannot be estimated through sampling techniques. Since reserves are only estimates, they cannot be audited for the purpose of verifying exactness. Instead, reserve information is audited for the purpose of reviewing in sufficient detail the policies, procedures and methods used by a company in estimating its reserves so that the reserve auditors may express an opinion as to whether, in the aggregate, the reserve information furnished by a company is reasonable.
•
The methods and procedures used by a company and the reserve information furnished by a company must be reviewed in sufficient detail to permit the reserve auditor, in its professional judgment, to express an opinion as to the reasonableness of the reserve information. The auditing procedures require the reserve auditor to prepare their own estimates of reserve information for the audited properties.
In conjunction with the audit of our proved reserves and associated pre-tax present value discounted at 10%, the Reserves Group provided to NSAI its external and internal engineering and geoscience technical data and analyses. NSAI accepted without independent verification the accuracy and completeness of the historical information and data furnished by us with respect to ownership interest, oil and natural gas production, well test data, commodity prices, operating and development costs, and any agreements relating to current and future operations of the properties and sales of production. However, if in the course of its evaluations something came to its attention that brought into question the validity or sufficiency of any such
information or data, NSAI did not rely on such information or data until it had satisfactorily resolved its questions relating thereto or had independently verified such information or data.
In the course of its evaluations, NSAI prepared, for all of the audited properties, its own estimates of our proved reserves and the pre-tax present values of such reserves discounted at 10%. NSAI reviewed its audit differences with us, and, as necessary, held meetings with us to review additional reserves work performed by our technical teams and any updated performance data related to the proved reserve differences. Such data was incorporated, as appropriate, by both parties into the proved reserve estimates. NSAI’s estimates, including any adjustments resulting from additional data, of those proved reserves and the pre-tax present value of such reserves discounted at 10% did not differ from our estimates by more than 10% in the aggregate. However, when compared on a lease-by-lease basis, some of our estimates were greater than those of the reserve auditors and some were less than the estimates of the reserve auditors. When such differences do not exceed 10% in the aggregate and NSAI is satisfied that the proved reserves and pre-tax present values of such reserves discounted at 10% are reasonable and that its audit objectives have been met, NSAI will issue an unqualified audit opinion. Any remaining differences are not resolved due to the limited cost benefit of continuing such analyses. At the conclusion of the audit process, it was NSAI’s opinion, as set forth in its audit letter, which is included as an exhibit to this Annual Report, that our estimates of our proved oil and natural gas reserves and associated pre-tax present values discounted at 10% are, in the aggregate, reasonable and have been prepared in accordance with the “Standards Pertaining to the Estimating and Auditing of Oil and Gas Reserves Information” promulgated by the SPE.
Qualifications of proved reserves preparers and auditors. The Reserves Group is staffed by petroleum and geoscience professionals with extensive industry experience and the process is managed by our Senior Vice President-Development Operations, the technical person primarily responsible for overseeing the preparation of all of our reserve estimates. The qualifications of our Senior Vice President-Development Operations include over 32 years of reservoir and operations experience. He holds a Bachelor of Science in Petroleum Engineering and a graduate certificate in finance. He is also a member of multiple professional industry organizations. Our Senior Vice President-Development Operations reports directly to our President and Chief Operating Officer, whose qualifications include over 12 years of reservoir and operations experience. He graduated with a Bachelor of Science in Petroleum Engineering and is a member of various professional industry organizations. Our Reserves Group has an average of approximately 14 years of industry experience per person.
As described above, following the preparation of our reserves estimates, these estimates are audited for their reasonableness by NSAI. NSAI provides worldwide petroleum property analysis services for energy clients, financial organizations and government agencies. NSAI was founded in 1961 and performs consulting petroleum engineering services under Texas Board of Professional Engineers Registration No.. The technical person primarily responsible for auditing our reserves estimates has been a practicing consulting petroleum engineer at NSAI since 1998 and has over 36 years of practical experience in petroleum engineering and meets or exceeds the education, training and experience requirements set forth in the “Standards Pertaining to the Estimating and Auditing of Oil and Gas Reserves Information” promulgated by the board of directors of the SPE.
Estimation of Proved Reserves. Under SEC rules, proved reserves are those quantities of oil and natural gas, which, by analysis of geoscience and engineering data, can be estimated with reasonable certainty to be economically producible-from a given date forward, from known reservoirs and under existing economic conditions, operating methods and government regulations-prior to the time at which contracts providing the right to operate expire, unless evidence indicates that renewal is reasonably certain, regardless of whether deterministic or probabilistic methods are used for the estimation. If deterministic methods are used, the SEC has defined reasonable certainty for proved reserves as a “high degree of confidence that the quantities will be recovered.” All of our proved reserves as of December 31, 2017 and 2016 were estimated using a deterministic method. The estimation of reserves involves two distinct determinations. The first determination results in the estimation of the quantities of recoverable oil and natural gas and the second determination results in the estimation of the uncertainty associated with those estimated quantities in accordance with the definitions established under SEC rules. The process of estimating the quantities of recoverable oil and natural gas reserves relies on the use of certain generally accepted analytical procedures. These analytical procedures fall into four broad categories or methods: (1) production performance-based methods; (2) material balance-based methods; (3) volumetric-based methods; and (4) analogy. These methods may be used singularly or in combination by the reserve evaluator in the process of estimating the quantities of reserves. Reserves for proved developed producing wells were estimated using production performance methods for the vast majority of properties. Certain new producing properties with very little production history were forecast using a combination of production performance and analogy to similar production, both of which are considered to provide a relatively high degree of accuracy. Non-producing reserve estimates, for developed and undeveloped properties, were forecast using either volumetric or analogy methods, or a combination of both. These methods provide a relatively high degree of accuracy for predicting proved developed non-producing and proved undeveloped reserves for our properties, due to the mature nature of the properties targeted for development and an abundance of subsurface control data.
To audit our estimates of economically recoverable proved reserves and related future net cash flows, NSAI considered many factors and assumptions, including the use of reservoir parameters derived from geological and engineering data which cannot be measured directly, economic criteria based on current costs and the SEC pricing requirements and forecasts of future production rates. The current pricing environment could impact future economics.
Under SEC rules, reasonable certainty can be established using techniques that have been proven effective by actual production from projects in the same reservoir or an analogous reservoir or by other evidence using reliable technology that establishes reasonable certainty. Reliable technology is a grouping of one or more technologies (including computational methods) that has been field tested and has been demonstrated to provide reasonably certain results with consistency and repeatability in the target zone being evaluated or in an analogous target zone. To establish reasonable certainty with respect to our estimated proved reserves, the technologies and economic data used in the estimation of our proved reserves have been demonstrated to yield results with consistency and repeatability and include production and well test data, downhole completion information, geologic data, electrical logs, radioactivity logs, core analyses, historical well cost and operating expense data.
The following table sets forth the combined production volumes and reserves by area (in MBoe):
Summary of Oil, Natural Gas and NGLs Reserves. The following table presents our estimated net proved oil, natural gas and NGLs reserves as of the periods indicated:
Reserve engineering is and must be recognized as a subjective process of estimating volumes of economically recoverable oil and natural gas that cannot be measured in an exact manner. The accuracy of any reserve estimate is a function of the quality of available data and of engineering and geological interpretation. As a result, the estimates of different engineers often vary. In addition, the results of drilling, testing and production may justify revisions of such estimates. Accordingly, reserve estimates often differ from the quantities of oil and natural gas that are ultimately recovered. Estimates of economically recoverable oil and natural gas and of future net revenues are based on a number of variables and assumptions, all of which may vary from actual results, including geologic interpretation, prices and future production rates and costs. Please read “Item 1A. Risk Factors.”
Proved Reserves
As of December 31, 2017, our proved reserves were composed of 248,531 MBbls of oil, 451,703 MMcf of natural gas and 92,632 MBbls of NGLs, for a total of 416,447 MBoe.
The following table summarizes the changes in our proved reserves during the year ended December 31, 2017 (in MBoe):
Changes in our proved reserves during the year ended December 31, 2017 primarily resulted from the following significant factors:
Purchases of reserves. During the year ended December 31, 2017, we added 55,814 MBoe of proved reserves, primarily as a result of the acquisition of incremental working interests in properties and undeveloped acreage in both the Midland and Delaware Basins. For the year ended December 31, 2017, we acquired 53,105 MBoe of proved reserves in the Midland Basin and 2,709 MBoe of proved reserves in the Delaware Basin.
Divestiture of reserves. During the year ended December 31, 2017, we divested 6,467 MBoe of proved reserves, which includes 5,936 MBoe of proved reserves in the Midland Basin and 531 MBoe of proved reserves in the Delaware Basin.
Extensions and discoveries. Extensions and discoveries of 160,340 MBoe during the year ended December 31, 2017 resulted primarily from our successful horizontal drilling program in the Midland Basin and Delaware Basin.
Revisions of previous estimates. During the year ended December 31, 2017, we experienced total positive revisions of previous estimates of 9,205 MBoe. The main driver of this adjustment was related to positive revisions due to better than expected performance from our wells for a total of 8,134 MBoe. Additionally, positive revisions of 2,752 MBoe and 3,044 MBoe were recorded due to increases in oil prices and production, respectively, when compared to the year ended December 31, 2016. This was offset by the reclassification of certain PUD reserves to unproved reserves, which accounted for a 4,725 MBoe downward revision to previous estimates related to the removal of reserves for locations determined to be outside of our five-year capital expenditure plan.
Production. During the year ended December 31, 2017, our production volumes were 24,792 MBoe resulting in a corresponding decrease in our proved reserves.
As of December 31, 2017, 2,178 MBoe, or less than 1% of our total proved reserves, were classified as proved developed non-producing.
Proved Undeveloped Reserves (PUDs)
As of December 31, 2017, our proved undeveloped reserves were composed of 128,940 MBbls of oil, 211,366 MMcf of natural gas and 42,881 MBbls of NGLs, for a total of 207,048 MBoe. PUDs will be converted from undeveloped to developed as the applicable wells begin production.
The following table summarizes the changes in our PUDs during the year ended December 31, 2017 (in MBoe):
Changes in our PUDs during the year ended December 31, 2017 primarily resulted from the following significant factors:
Purchases of reserves. During the year ended December 31, 2017, we added 23,441 MBoe of PUDs, primarily as a result of the acquisition of undeveloped acreage in the Midland Basin.
Divestiture of reserves. During the year ended December 31, 2017, we divested 5,228 MBoe of PUDs, which includes 4,697 MBoe of proved reserves in the Midland Basin and 531 MBoe of proved reserves in the Delaware Basin.
Extensions and discoveries. Extensions and discoveries of 86,094 MBoe during the year ended December 31, 2017 resulted primarily from the drilling of new wells during the year and from new proved undeveloped locations added during the year.
Revisions of previous estimates. During the year ended December 31, 2017, we experienced total negative revisions to previous PUD reserve estimates of 6,371 MBoe. The main driver of this adjustment was the reclassification of certain PUD reserves to unproved reserves, which accounted for a 4,725 MBoe downward revision to previous estimates associated with the removal of reserves for locations determined to be outside of our five-year capital expenditure plan. We also experienced negative revisions of 679 MBoe related to production and pricing and negative revisions of 967 MBoe associated with changes to our type curves, shrinkage and yield, lease operating expenses and capital expenditures.
Transfers to proved developed. During the year ended December 31, 2017, we transferred 7,138 MBoe of PUDs to proved developed, all of which were transferred to proved developed producing reserves.
At the end of each year, we schedule a five-year capital expenditure plan based on our best available data and financial feasibility at the time the plan is developed. Our capital expenditure plan includes only PUD reserves that we are reasonably certain will be drilled within five years of booking based upon management's evaluation of a number of qualitative and quantitative factors, including: estimated risk-based returns; estimated well density; commodity prices and cost forecasts; recent drilling, recompletion or re-stimulation results and well performance; anticipated availability of services, equipment, supplies and personnel; seasonal weather; and changes in drilling and completion techniques and technology. Our PUD reserves do not include reserves associated with non-operated properties. This process is intended to ensure that PUD reserves are only booked for locations where a final investment decision has been made by us. Our five-year development plan generally does not contemplate a uniform conversion of PUD reserves in all of its producing areas. Our board of directors annually reviews our expenditure plan and approves the capital budget for the first year of the development plan.
We review and revise the capital expenditure plan throughout the year and modify the plan after evaluating a number of factors, including: operational results; current and expected future commodity prices; estimated risk-based returns; cost and availability of services, equipment and resources; acquisition and divestiture activity; and our current and projected financial condition and liquidity. If there are changes that result in certain PUD reserves no longer being scheduled for development within five years from the date of initial booking, we reclassify those PUD reserves to non-proved reserve categories. In addition, PUD locations and reserves may be removed from the development plan ahead of their five-year life expiration as a result of the changes in our development plan related to the factors enumerated above.
Costs incurred relating to the development of locations that were classified as PUDs at December 31, 2016 were approximately $65.1 million during the year ended December 31, 2017. Additionally, during 2017, we spent approximately $770.0 million drilling and completing other in-field wells which were not classified as proved as of December 31, 2016. Estimated future development costs relating to the development of PUDs at December 31, 2017 were projected to be approximately $313.2 million in 2018, $472.8 million in 2019, $498.9 million in 2020, $441.9 million in 2021 and $402.1 million in future periods. As we continue to develop our properties and have more well production and completion data, we
believe we will continue to realize cost savings and experience lower relative drilling and completion costs as we convert PUDs into proved developed reserves in upcoming years. As of December 31, 2017, all of our PUD drilling locations were scheduled to be drilled within five years of their initial booking.
Additional information regarding our proved reserves can be found in the notes to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report and the audit letter relating to the proved reserve report as of December 31, 2017, which is included as an exhibit to this Annual Report.
Developed and Undeveloped Acreage
The following tables set forth information as of December 31, 2017 relating to our leasehold acreage.
(1)
Developed acreage is acreage spaced or assigned to productive wells and does not include undrilled acreage held by production under the terms of the applicable lease.
(2)
Undeveloped acreage is acreage on which wells have not been drilled or completed to a point that would permit the production of commercial quantities of oil or natural gas, regardless of whether such acreage contains proved reserves.
(3)
A gross acre is an acre in which a working interest is owned. The number of gross acres is the total number of acres in which a working interest is owned.
(4)
A net acre is deemed to exist when the sum of the fractional ownership working interests in gross acres equals one. The number of net acres is the sum of the fractional working interests owned in gross acres expressed as whole numbers and fractions thereof.
In addition to the leasehold acreage described above, as of December 31, 2017, we held mineral rights in 33,221 acres, with an average royalty interest of 21%. These mineral rights and associated royalty interests boost net revenue interest in our applicable properties.
Many of the leases comprising the undeveloped acreage set forth in the table above will expire at the end of their respective primary terms unless production from the leasehold acreage has been established prior to such date, in which event the lease will remain in effect until the cessation of production. Most of the leases governing our acreage have continuous development clauses that permit us to continue to hold the acreage under such leases after the expiration of the primary term if we initiate additional development within 60 to 180 days of the expiration date, without the requirement of a lease extension payment. Thereafter, generally the leases are held with additional development every 60 to 180 days until the entire lease is held by production. The following table sets forth the gross and net undeveloped acreage, as of December 31, 2017, that will expire over the next four years unless production is established within the spacing units covering the acreage or the lease is renewed or extended under continuous drilling provisions prior to the primary term expiration dates. There are currently no expirations for the year ended December 31, 2022.
Drilling Results
The following table sets forth information with respect to the number of wells completed during the periods indicated. The information should not be considered indicative of future performance, nor should it be assumed that there is any correlation between the number of productive wells drilled, quantities of reserves found or economic value. Productive wells are those that produce commercial quantities of hydrocarbons, whether or not they produce a reasonable rate of return.
(1
)
Although a well may be classified as productive upon completion, future changes in oil and natural gas prices, operating costs and production may result in the well becoming uneconomical, particularly exploratory wells for which there is no production history.
As of December 31, 2017, in the Midland Basin, we had nine gross (8.8 net) horizontal wells in the process of being drilled, ten (9.8 net) horizontal wells awaiting hydraulic fracturing procedures and eight gross (8.0 net) horizontal wells in the process of being completed that are not reflected in the above table. In the Delaware Basin, we had four gross (4.0 net) horizontal wells in the process of being drilled, eight gross (7.7 net) horizontal wells awaiting hydraulic fracturing procedures and six gross (5.3 net) horizontal wells in the process of being completed that are not reflected in the above table.
Title to Properties
As is customary in the oil and natural gas industry, when we acquire leasehold acreage, we conduct title due diligence on the subject properties but may not have title opinions covering the properties prior to entering into a purchase and sale agreement. At the time we determine to conduct drilling operations on those properties, we conduct a thorough title examination and perform curative work with respect to significant defects prior to commencing drilling operations. To the extent title opinions or other investigations completed after the closing of an acquisition reflect title defects on those properties, we are typically responsible for curing any title defects at our expense. We generally will not commence drilling operations on a property until we have cured any material title defects on such property. We have obtained title opinions on substantially all of our producing properties and believe that we have satisfactory title to our producing properties in accordance with standards generally accepted in the oil and natural gas industry.
Prior to completing an acquisition of producing oil and natural gas leases, we perform title reviews on the most significant leases and, depending on the materiality of properties, we may obtain a title opinion, obtain an updated title review or opinion or review previously obtained title opinions. Our oil and natural gas properties are subject to customary royalty and other interests, liens for current taxes and other burdens which we believe do not materially interfere with our use of or affect the carrying value of the properties.
We believe that we have satisfactory title to all of our material assets. Although title to these properties is subject to encumbrances in some cases, such as customary interests generally retained in connection with the acquisition of real property, customary royalty interests and contract terms and restrictions, liens under operating agreements, liens related to environmental liabilities associated with historical operations, liens for current taxes and other burdens, easements, restrictions and minor encumbrances customary in the oil and natural gas industry, we believe that none of these liens, restrictions, easements, burdens and encumbrances will materially detract from the value of these properties or from our interest in these properties or materially interfere with our use of these properties in the operation of our business. In addition, we believe that we have obtained sufficient rights-of-way grants and permits from public authorities and private parties for us to operate our business in all material respects as described in this Annual Report.
Facilities
As of December 31, 2017, we leased corporate office space in Austin, Texas at 303 Colorado Street, where our corporate headquarters is located, and at certain other locations in downtown Austin. We also leased corporate office space in Midland, Texas and owned field operation facilities in Midland and Fort Stockton, Texas. We believe that our facilities are adequate for our current operations.
During the fourth quarter of 2017, we entered into a lease agreement with an affiliate of Cousins Properties to design and develop an office building at 300 Colorado Street, Austin, Texas. Upon its completion, we expect to move our corporate headquarters to this location.
ITEM 3.