Item 2. Properties
Our principal office is located at 353 St. Nicolas, Suite 205, Montreal, Quebec H2Y 2P1. The offices in Montreal are not under written lease but are rented through a verbal agreement, on a month to month basis, from 150206 Canada Inc. at $500 per month, due and payable at each calendar quarter end. The occupancy began October 1, 2013.
Our operational offices are located at: Zhen Ding Mining Co. Ltd., Wuxi County, Town of Langqiao, Jing Xian, Anhui Province, China, Tel: 86-6270-9018.
Mineral Properties
Description of the Property of the Wuxi Gold Project
Zhen Ding JV relies on Xinzhou Gold for its supply of metal ores and its processing plant is located on the site of the underground mine where Xinzhou Gold has licenses to explore and mine ore (the “Wuxi Gold Project”) to reduce transportation cost. The Wuxi Gold Project is located in Jingxian county, situated in the southeastern part of Anhui Province, PRC. The site is 63km southwest of the city of Xuancheng, a significant city of about 2.8 million inhabitants, and is 15 km south of the town of Jingxian. The project site falls under the administration of the township of Langqaio and is located near the village of Wuxi (see Figure 1).
Figure 1- Location of Wuxi
The geographical position of the Wuxi Gold Project is located within the area bounded by the coordinates: 118°24′20″ to 118°27′20″ E and 30°31′30″ to 30°35′30″ N.
Access to the site from the city of Huangshan, the nearest city with regular air service, is by Express Highway #205 for approximately 125km to the village of Wuxi and subsequently by a 2 km all-weather road to the project site. All roads are public roads. Access is also available through the rail system at Xuancheng. (Please refer to Figure 2 for access to Wuxi via highways).
The area was eroded by glacial activity and subsequently by meteoric waters to a rolling landform. The elevations in the Wuxi Gold Project area are generally higher in the east and lower in the west. The highest elevation, in the area, is less than 300m above sea level.
Gullies and creeks are well developed and are recharged by meteoric water. A river near the Wuxi Gold Project site will, via surface channel, conduit sufficient water for process and mining purposes. All rivers, gullies and creeks in the area flow into the Shuiyang river system.
The area has a mild climate. The highest temperatures occur in July and August reaching highs of + 41ºC and the lowest are during January and February reaching lows of -8ºC. Annual precipitation varies between 1348.2mm and 1422.8mm, concentrated from April to August.
The Wuxi Gold Project is located near the village of Wuxi and the work force comes from this and other nearby villages. A plentiful, although inexperienced, work force is available locally.
Electric power is supplied by the local power grid and additional demand can be met by existing infrastructure. Energy cost is low and reliability is reportedly good. No backup power supply is provided or required on site. Telephone lines are available. Cellular phone coverage is good. Required roads, power lines, and water lines are in place.
Our joint venture partner, Xinzhou Gold currently mines ores at the Wuxi Gold Project under two permits: (1) Mining License No. C3400002009114110049341 (the “Mining License”) and (2) Gold Mining License No. (2005) 42 (the “Gold Mining License”).
The Mining License is valid from November 20, 2014 until November 20, 2017 and was issued by the Mining Resources Department of Anhui Province. This license allows ore to be mined in a specific area spanning 0.744 square kilometers with an ore extraction limit of 60,000 tons per year. The Mining License allows for underground mining.
The Gold Mining License was issued by the National Commission on National Development and Reform and specifically grants the right to extract gold ore up to 200 tons a day in the Wuxi Gold Mine and was valid from June 3, 2005 until June 3, 2015. The permit extension application is currently in process. Without a valid Gold Mining License, Xinzhou Gold may not mine any gold ore from the Wuxi Gold Mine and therefore would not have any gold ore available for sale to us, which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and income. However, based on past experience, we are confident that Xinzhou Gold will receive a renewal of the Gold Mining License within one or two months, which is a time frame consistent with past applications. Reissuance of the Gold Mining License would be consistent with the history of, and other government approvals received by, Xinzhou Gold, as discussed herein. Also, the approval of the Gold Mining License is considered secondary to the approval of the Mining License, which approval was recently reissued.
The veins Xinzhou Gold has been extracting ore from have been very low grade and therefore the yield is also low as a result. Xinzhou Gold has discovered that veins with higher concentrations of gold run outside of its licensed areas and therefore applied for an expansion of its permitted areas under the license. In December, 2016, the application to expand Xinzhou Gold’s permit was rejected due to the company’s insufficient working capital. Xinzhou Gold intends to reapply for an extension of the permitted mining area when it is able to demonstrate sufficient working capital to drill the extended area. As such, mining of ore has been reduced awaiting an expansion of the working area permitted under the Mining License. However, if sufficient working capital is unavailable, or should the application be denied on other grounds, we would not be able to secure another source with higher grade ores for our processing plant, which would severely limit our ability to execute our plan of operation and our potential profitability.
History of the Wuxi Gold Project
Initial regional geologic work began, in this area, in the 1930’s. Geologists, including Li Yuyao and Wang Hengjie, began investigations into the origin of the carbonaceous zone in southern Anhui. Mineral exploration work began subsequent to the investigation for coal by Zhaoxian Bian and Yunyuan Liu in the 1940’s.
Additional regional geology and mineral geological surveys were performed between 1960 and 1965, by the Anhui Regional Geological Survey Team. This team provided a detailed Lithological/Stratigraphic study of the area. Concomitantly, this team performed stream sampling and investigations of old mine workings as well as additional mineral prospecting which has laid the basis for all subsequent geological work.
Since that time, there have been sporadic geological investigations primarily for the purpose of scientific research. Official regional geologic survey mapping is limited to a 1:50000 scale survey map; this limitation is indicative of the minor amounts of previous geological work performed in the area.
In 1998, the Anhui Exploration (Nuclear Technology) Institute discovered gold and poly-metallic deposits in the district. The mineral resource, subject of this report, was located primarily by surface exploration techniques, primarily surface trenching.
In March of 1999, the Anhui Exploration (Nuclear Technology) Institute sought additional investors; their involvement resulted in the formation of our joint venture partner, Xinzhou Gold. Senior management and owners of Xinzhou Gold are also our partner in Zhen Ding JV and also form part of the senior management of Zhen Ding DE.
In 2010, an additional financial partner was admitted to the Wuxi Gold Project and committed to expending up to US$4,000,000 to firm up the mining tunnels, for additional drilling and building an ore processing (concentration) plant. Zhen Ding JV has spent about $27.5 million RMB (about US$4.3 million) over the past 3 years.
The Physical Plant at the Wuxi Gold Project
The processing of the ore is through a gravity concentration plant which has been built on the northeast side of the mountain located within the Zhen Ding JV prospect. The plant is owned and operated by Zhen Ding JV and is approximately four years old. It currently has a capacity to process 200 tons of rock daily, with infrastructure in place to provide for expansion of capacity to 600 tons.
In the PRC, land use rights are the legal rights for an entity to use land for a fixed period of time. The PRC has adopted a dual land tenure system under which land ownership is independent of land use rights. The land is either owned by the state or by rural collective economic organizations. As of December 31, 2016, the Zhen Ding JV did not have any land use rights agreements with the PRC for the buildings owned by our Company. The Government owns the land where our Company’s buildings are located and allows our Company free usage of the land.
The overview of milling process is for the ore to be extracted and brought to the plant and initially passed through two crushers, one coarse and one more refined, which is then fed into one of three grinding mills, where the ore is ground into powder form. At the grinding process, the powdered ore is mixed with chemicals and then fed into a floatation machine. After the chemical treatment, output from the floatation machine goes through a filter and drying machine. The output of the drying produces our final product, which is a gold, silver, lead, zinc and copper concentrate. We do not produce pure metal. We estimate our extracted ore is 65-80% pure and is sold to refineries that further purify and separate the concentrate. Tailing are send directly to a tailing pond near the entrance side of the plant. There is no hazardous waste produced by our concentration plant and we recycle nearly all of the waste water.
The plant was completed.tested, and inspected by authorities during 2012. Milling activity commenced during the summer of 2012. In the five months ended December 31, 2012, Zhen Ding JV milled and sold $2,101,200 of metal concentrate. However, mining and production decreased at year end as Xinzhou Gold exhausted its higher concentrated gold deposits and needed to extract beyond the areas permitted by the mining license.
At the beginning of fiscal 2015, we idled our mineral processing plant due to an overall downturn in the demand and market prices for our concentrates. This downturn has coincided with an overall economic recession in China and downturn in the global commodities market over the past 12 months.
In 2015, Xinzhou Gold applied for an expansion of licensed areas in order to access higher ore concentrations, but the application was rejected in December, 2016 due to insufficient working capital. . Xinzhou Gold intends to reapply for an extension of the permitted mining area when it is able to demonstrate sufficient working capital to drill the extended area. However, if sufficient working capital is unavailable, or should the application be denied on other grounds, we would not be able to secure another source with higher grade ores for our processing plant, which would severely limit our ability to execute our plan of operation and our potential profitability. As at the date of this report, we are actively seeking an investment of approximately US$3,500,000, which we believe is required to expand Xinzhou Gold’s mining permit, which would allow us to resume our ore extraction and refinery activities, although we have not secured any financing commitment thus far.
The following table presents the amount of processed metal ores sold by Zhen Ding JV from January 2012 through December 31, 2016:
Zhen Ding JV Processed Ore Sales Amounts
Operations
Presently, we are conducting our operations exclusively through Zhen Ding JV, our joint venture company. However, we continue to look for other attractive potential acquisition targets in the mining industry.
Our joint venture, Zhen Ding JV, is equipped to process ore mined by our joint venture partner Xinzhou Gold. Zhen Ding JV purchases the ore in rock form from Xinzhou Gold and processes the ore into our final product, which is a gold, silver, lead, zinc and copper ore concentrate. We estimate that our processed product is 65-80% pure and is sold to refineries that further purify and separate the concentrate. Zhen Ding JV also arranges all exploration, mining process and operations, and financial and administrative support for the Wuxi Gold Mine operations.
As at the date of this report, we are actively seeking an investment of approximately US$3,500,000, which we believe is required to expand Xinzhou Gold’s mining permit, which would allow us to resume our ore extraction and refinery activities, although we have not secured any financing commitment thus far.
Although we do not currently produce pure metals, it is part of our development plan to do so when general economic conditions and our cash resources permit.
Planned Production Development
We rely on Xinzhou Gold for our supply of ores. Xinzhou Gold’s current exploration permit covers an area of 17.37 square kilometers, having been reduced from 34.37 square kilometers by the authorities due to an absence of drilling activities on the forfeited area and the allocation of the forfeited area for the construction of a high speed train. Xinzhou Gold has been granted a mining permit with respect to 0.745 square kilometers of the current area. The permitted annual mining capacity is 60,000 tons, and the concentration plant has been built with the annual future production capacity of 100,000 tons.
The future plan of development is as follows:
1.
Increase the production rate from processing 60,000 tons per year to 100,000 tons per year by 2018.
2.
Increase the production rate from processing 100,000 tons per year to 180,000 tons per year by 2020.
XinZhou and our company will need to acquire additional drilling equipment in order to support these increased production targets, the total cost of which we estimate will be approximately US$4.8 million.
Planned Additional Deep Drilling Exploration Development
Out of the total 17.37 square kilometers, three holes have been drilled with very promising results in the deep zone, and indicating that such area likely contains porphyry copper gold deposits. These three drill holes have revealed mineralized copper, gold and molybdenum. One drill hole was especially promising, with a high content of copper (over 10%) with a 1.7m rock core drill. The three drill holes produced almost 100m of rock core drill with industrial grade gold and molybdenum mineralization. Sample collection is carried out strictly according to PRC national exploration standards with cleft rock core drill of each sampling (of 1.0-1.5 meters in length). Analytical procedures are carried out in accordance with the national chemical analysis standard. With respect to Quality Assurance/Quality Control (QA/QC) protocols, samples are analyzed with 20% repetition and internal and external corrections in order to ensure the accuracy of the analysis result relating to metals.
Subject to available financing, our future plans include:
·
Carrying out soil measurement (geochemistry) and surface sampling in the target area of 2km2, obtaining the secondary halo anomaly granite diorite stock and its wall rocks in order to find mineralization center for the further determination of drilling after chemical analysis. This sampling is expected to be finished by autumn 2017 and is expected to cost approximately $20,000.
·
Excavating an exploratory trench of approximately 1000m3 to get fresh samples for further chemical analysis. This excavation is expected to be finished by autumn 2017 and is expected to cost approximately $30,000.
·
Drilling three drill holes with 2000 meters depth to attempt to identify the ore bodies. This drilling is expected to be finished by autumn 2017 and is expected to cost approximately $200,000.
·
We will seek to drill 10 additional drill holes within the area of 3.6 square kilometers, the depth of each hole will be 1000 meters and the cost for each hole will be one millions RMB or US$160,000.00. Total: US$1.6 million. The drilling is expected to be finished by summer 2017.
·
8-10 holes will be drilled within the area of 0.74 square kilometers covered by the mining license, and the cost will about RMB 10 million or total US$1.6 million. The drilling is expected to be finished by summer 2017.
·
Chemical analysis of approximately 1,000 samples, which is expected to cost about $50,000 and to be finished by the end of 2017.
·
Preparation of a geological and technique report, which is expected to cost about $20,000 and to be completed by the end of 2017.
Xinzhou and our company does not have sufficient resources to execute our exploration and production plans and we are currently seeking additional financing to fund these plans. We anticipate that the No. 271 Geological Team of Anhui Bureau of Geology and Mineral Exploration will undertake these exploration tasks. This geological company has a Grade A Certificate of Geological Exploration issued by the Administration of Land and Mineral Resources of China. During exploration they will be assisted by experts from the Institute of Geochemistry, Institute of Geology and Geophysics, Chinese Academy of Sciences, in finding the correct methods, target area and data analysis.
Our Joint Venture, Zhen Ding Mining Co., Ltd.
On November 4, 2004, (Jing Xian) Xin Zhou Gold Co. Ltd of Anhui Province China (“Xinzhou Gold”) and Z & W Zhen Ding Corporation, a California corporation (“Zhen Ding CA”), entered into a joint venture agreement to form a limited liability mining company, named (Jing Xian) Zhen Ding Mining Co., Ltd, incorporated under Chinese law (“Zhen Ding JV”), for the purposes of processing metal ores which Xinzhou Gold extracts from the natural mineral resources found in the 34.75 square kilometers Wuxi property located in Langqiao Town, Jing County, Anhui Province, China. The terms of the Zhen Ding JV are governed by the joint venture agreement and the Articles of Association for the Zhen Ding JV.
Zhen Ding JV has a registered capital of US$1,680,000 and a total investment of US$2,418,000, with Zhen Ding CA making 70% and Xinzhou Gold making 30% of the capital contribution. Generally, Xinzhou Gold is responsible for the mining operations and Zhen Ding CA is responsible for Zhen Ding JV’s cash needs, machinery and equipment, labor management and overseeing financial matters such as taxes, finances and audits.
Profits and losses of Zhen Ding JV are shared by both parties in accordance to the capital contribution ratio. The management of Zhen Ding JV consists of a seven-member board of directors with four appointed by Xinzhou Gold and three appointed by Zhen Ding CA. The Zhen Ding JV business operations are managed by a general manager appointed by Xinzhou Gold and two deputy general managers with Xinzhou Gold and Zhen Ding CA each appointing one of them.
Zhen Ding JV has a term of 20 years and can be renewed with unanimous approval of its board of directors and the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Development of the PRC. The joint venture may be terminated with the consent of both parties, or by either Xinzhou Gold or Zhen Ding CA alone in the case of any of the following:
Ÿ
The joint venture is unable to continue operations due to heavy losses;
Ÿ
The joint venture is unable to continue operations due to an event of force majeure;
Ÿ
A substantial uncured breach by the other party of the joint venture agreement or the Articles of Association; or
Ÿ
The joint venture fails to obtain its operational objectives and has no good prospects for doing so.
Zhen Ding JV also provides management consulting to Xinzhou Gold and assists Xinzhou Gold in its financing efforts to secure additional funding to expand its mining operation. Zhen Ding JV also arranges all exploration, mining process and operations, and financial and administrative support for the Wuxi Gold Mine operations. In return Xinzhou Gold sells all of its ore production to Zhen Ding JV for processing at a price determined by the relevant Chinese metal market price as approved by the local government finance department. In addition, Xinzhou Gold is required to achieve a minimum profit.
Xinzhou Gold is owned 30% by Zhou Qiang, a Director and shareholder of Zhen Ding DE, 23% by Zhou Zhi Bin, a Director and shareholder of Zhen Ding DE, 23% by Wei De Gang, Chairman, CFO and a Director and Shareholder of Zhen Ding DE, 4% by Tang Yong Hong, and 20% by Chen Yan Song.
Item 3.