ITEM 2. PROPERTIES.
The original property held by the Company was the Queliz concession located in the Dominican Republic. The Company undertook two exploration programs on this concession before the Director of Mining for the Dominican Republic cancelled our rights to the minerals on this concession. Therefore, the Company has no further interests in the minerals located on the Queliz concession. No real explanation was given for the cancellation of the concession.
We presently have the mineral rights to La Mira property.
It is located in the Provinces Santigo and La Vega, municipality San Jose de las Matas and Jarabacoa, municipal district of Las Placetas and Manabao, sections Mata Grande, Jamamu and La Cienaga, and the Villages of Guacaritas, Rancho al Medio, Los Apostentos, El Valle, La Mina, Moshosa, Montellano, Jamamutico, Boca de los Rios and Los Tablones.
Geology of the Region
The mineralization of greater economic interest in the Dominican Republic correspond to massive sulphide ores of hydrothermal replacements and laterite concentrations. The massive sulphides are preferentially located in the Maimon Formation and formations Los Ranchos, Duarte, Tireo and Peralvillo. In the Maimon Formation have identified several Prospects Massive Sulphide mineralization such as: Cerro Maimon Loma Barbuito and Heavy.
The epithermal mineralization are preferably in the Formations Los Ranchos and Tireo, where you can highlight the tank sulphides Pueblo Viejo (Au, Ag, Zn) the deposit of Managua (Au, Ag) Deposits and Centenario (Au) and Candelones (Au).
The case of Pueblo Viejo is very particular, if the hypothesis that relates to Maar is true, the chances of a similar system there are very limited. If the situation in which the epithermal system associated with massive sulfide and acidic domes is correct, then there are more chances of finding similar systems.
The assessment of areas with mining potential of metallic minerals is related to geodynamic processes developed in Hispaniola, in origin related to plate tectonics. The evolution of the Caribbean Plate presents different episodes of continuous transformation, this evolution is also lithological with input from volcanic material and intrusion of plutons and subsequent metamorphic process. During these developmental periods affected include between Hispaniola island arc formation in the Upper Jurassic and Cretaceous to Eocene, although there is evidence of Quaternary volcanism without major contributions of metallic ores.
The most representative tectonic events are associated with the contribution of volcanic rocks and large primary guidelines where this feature is in line with its geotectonic framework that is particularly favorable to the formation of various types of mineralization, many with great importance and economic significance. The global metallogenic analysis match the extraordinary fertility of the fields of island arc for the genesis of mineral deposits, especially regarding major types, such as hydrothermal volcanogenic massive sulfide (VHMS), epithermal, porphyry copper deposits including.
To obtain positive results in the exploration program, efforts will be directed to develop a mining project of exploitation of metallic minerals, to meet the current needs of the international market.
Exploration Program Proposed
In order to meet the principal conditions and logistical details, geological, petrological, chemical, mineralogical and assess the probable and exploitable reserves Rock of interest in targeted areas, besides establishing a fundamental principle of social conditions and environmental policies available for the project in question, referred the following activities.
Planning
In the management work, we will rely on the basic information, from technical research and / or scientific area or close to it and consulting thematic mapping of the area. The analysis of this information will allow us to establish a geological model of the reservoir, and thus determine the logistics to develop during the scanning process. This information is required to identify areas with mining potential, plus you may define areas that warrant further study in detail.
Geological Survey
To have a better understanding of project success, we will do a series of evaluation studies and collection of information in order to know all the geological, mineralogical and structural area of interest and surroundings were made, a geological survey of semi detailed will be made, aimed at identifying the main existing lithological units and make systematic sampling in order to differentiate varieties of rock lithology interest and to demarcated according to their physical characteristics and chemical composition, and develop a geological model that allows us to infer their behavior from the sub-soil, topography correlating with outcrops identified and grouping it by interest group, according to the demands and solutions satisfaction.
Exploration
The exploration phase of the mining project will be in two stages, regional and detail. The first is the recognition of lithologic units in the area, determining its extent and thickness and fracturing associated with larger structures such as faults.
A regional sampling will be made in photogeological scale in the plan 1 / 20,000.00. Exploring in detail consist of a selective sampling of rocks and active sediments to determine their metallogenic characteristics, in the same manner, stratigraphic columns of geological formations will arise calicatas be planned, nets for soil sampling was conducted, and all this field information will be done with GPS.
The exploration phase will conclude with geological-mining information, where the reservoir model is presented, and the geophysical and / or drilling campaigns are designed, the volume of potential reserves are determined, the overburden will be estimated and economic viability of the mining project will be assessed.
It also includes the set of activities that allow access to (the) site (s) and the establishment of basic infrastructure for the mining project, this includes the acquisition of mineral rights and environmental permits to start mining, detailed design and construction of supports, as well as machinery, budgeting, and economic viability.
After performing all basic studies to detailed engineering we will begin with preliminary work in the area where the fronts to undermine and its facilities are located. Among the highlights infrastructure access roads, networks of power and drinking water, the ground for the installation of the processing plant, the area of collection of raw materials and waste dumps for recovery of mined fronts.
Exploration Program
In order to achieve the main logistics, geological and mining details, we have scheduled a plan of geological and mining work to be done in the area of the Concession Exploration for Minerals and Precious Metal (Gold, Silver, Copper, Zinc and Lead), called "LA MINA", in addition to assessing the socio-economic and environmental conditions that currently exist in the area of the mining project.
General Recognition
The purpose of this phase is to delineate areas of interest that must be priority targets for a detailed study. This stage include the definition of regional geological environment and mining, using as point maps and existing items obtained from the previous compilation phase. The purpose is to understand the high-grade mineralization.
It is planned to map scale 1 / 20,000.00 of geological formations, structures, alterations and occurrences of mineralization to locate all representative outcrops in the area, while conducting geochemical sampling of mineralized outcrops and altered. These activities will be supported by the database collected during the compilation, including satellite imagery and aerial photographs. The photographs will be used alongside the available topographic maps, GPS receivers and polygon drawn with compasses and tapes countryside location.
The fieldwork will be conducted by geologists, prospectors assisted by technicians and local labor, forming brigades of field, to which they are assigned specific areas. These teams will be structured based on logistical convenience, and as it progresses the proposed program, will be gathering information in a database to be closing anomalies discovered.
Rocks and Sediment Sampling Assets
During this phase, a detailed sampling of rocks and sediments assets to complement previous work in the area program will be implemented. River sediments will be collected both permanent and seasonal streams. Initially, a pilot study, in each sampling one sifted sample and a concentrated punt will collect and examine which exists among the best signal geochemical anomalies. We anticipate at this stage to collect approximately one sample per stream or ravine, which could mean an approximate sampling to 5 samples per square kilometer, or requiring the area.
Samples shaped rock chips will be taken from any or altered mineralized outcrop is located. These samples will be taken at the discretion of the leading field geologist to obtain a representative specimen of mineralization and / or alteration. Rock samples will be taken along gutters, cut through the mineralized outcrops and / or altered.
Rock samples and sediments will be stored in plastic bags, labeled for identification, packaged and sent for chemical analysis through a chain of custody to a laboratory accreditation and international solvency, we can ensure data consistent and reliable exploration, and allow us track progress in real-time results to be closing or expanding areas of anomalies.
Samples will be analyzed by atomic absorption or induced multiple elements plasma, among which include Au, Ag, Ba, Bi, Cd, Co, Cu, Fe, Ga, Hg, In, Pb, Sb, Sn, Te, W, Zn, and other indicators of mineralization associated with the type of deposit explored.
The results of the analysis are plotted together to geology, in detailed maps of anomalies and limits of these anomalies will be determined mediantes geostatistical analysis of the samples.
Cutting Lines and Soil Sampling
During this phase of mapping it is planned to establish one or more meshes soil sampling due to the efficiency of this method of exploration to define areas of hidden mineralization, covered by soil or weathering. The grid or mesh will be established with topography and surveying using precision equipment such as traffic type total station and / or differential GPS. The sampling interval to be used, typically in the order of 50-200 meters apart lines and from 25-100 meters between samples.
Soil samples will be taken into wells dug by hand with pick and shovel or hand holes using Auger type, from a depth of about 50 Cms., Or enough to sample the horizon "B" of the soil profile. Like rock samples and sediments, soil samples will be sent on the same basis for analysis to an accredited laboratory with recognized international standards of quality.
Detailed Geological Mapping
During this phase, we will develop detailed maps at 1: 10,000 or of larger outcrops and cuts along roads, drainage, firm and so on. Will be taken detailed structural measures, including stratifications, faults and joints, folds, foliations and addresses of veins. Simultaneously a systematic geochemical sampling along continuous gutters or chip on outcrops are performed.
As a basis for this detailed mapping will be used aerial photos, GPS receivers and detailed topographic maps as well as a network of local control surveying points along a grid or mesh established specially for this purpose.
Throughout the exploration program a vast precaution is taken to ensure quality control in the collection and analysis of samples, especially rocks, by including verification testing with known standards and random repetition of a number of samples for ensuring the accuracy of the analytical methods.
The results of chemical analyzes will be plotted in a digital format previously designed to complement previous work, and using computer programs specially designed for this purpose.
The results will be statistically analyzed to extract the three-dimensional anomalies of interest to them. Similarly, the results will be periodically checked by routine checkups in separate laboratories.
Pits and trenches
Digging pits and / or trenches on areas where it is necessary to expose rocks covered by soil and vegetation will be considered. The excavations will be carried out using a hydraulic backhoe or manually. This motor is compact and does not require access preparation. We will cut loose soil to 2.80 m (9'2''feet) deep to learn more about soil and subsoil, considering that there is no pattern yet to define where the first ends and begins the second.
The outcrops and areas of mineralization and / or discovered alterations during this activity will be mapped in detail and extensively sampled. The samples will be processed and analyzed in a similar way to the gutters and / or rock chip collected in the program of detailed mapping and geochemistry.
For this activity, while the works are in progress we will implement security measures such as fencing work areas and mark them properly, in order to restrict access to the work area to authorized personnel only. Once we have completed the work of excavation, mapping and sampling of the trenches and / or pits, a program of claim impacted areas will be conducted. This will include filling the trenches and / or pits used for the same purposes extracted material, restoring soil and topsoil removed and replanted with grass, shrubs and / or endemic plants.
Geophysics
Induced polarization (IP) by the time domain technique that provides power to the ground with a pulse of alternating square wave upon shall be determined by current injection apparent resistivity bulk soil to identify metal mineralization related ground and calculated from the input current and voltage primary measures mineralized zones and ensure other studies such as drilling, which will allow us to confirm, across the mineralization identified at depths and model them with surface results their similarities with relatively strong anomalies. Also will be identified and confirmed the structures or failure and abnormal concentrations for the Exploration Concesion (Gold, Silver, Copper, Zinc and Lead), called LA MINA.
Drilling
A first phase of exploratory drilling include at least about 4200.00 meters of diamond drilling on priority areas. It is not possible without a priori knowledge of the geology of the area and the proposed program of geophysics, determine the specific parameters of each probe, which will be distributed according to the anomalous areas and disturbed mineralization identified, but one would expect that most of these exceeding 150 meters. The polls will in diameter NTW (2,205 Sch. (5.61 Cms.)) Method that guarantees a 38.00% increase in the diameter of the resulting core NQ model, since it is characterized as a cut thin wall, increasing the cutting efficiency and recovery.
The orientation of these will be determined by the geological conditions of the explored areas and the results of the geophysical program.
The reason for choosing this drilling system is the versatility with which you can move this drill to remote or inaccessible places, without having to develop or build access roads, equipment can also be disassembled and built by hand, and space required, which shall never exceed 25.00 Mts2 addition to this equipment requires approximately 20.00% of tork, resulting in a significant drop in fuel consumption.
Because the perforations require water for circulation and cooling of the drill, it will be obtained from local surface sources. This water will be pumped up to drilling platforms, which will enter into a semi-closed circuit. Water will enter the circuit only when the poll and not re-circulate to the surface, but it infiltrates into the well. Fluid within the circuit is usually added drilling additives based on biodegradable polymers and bentonite clays. Cement may be used to control cavities and collapse of the probes to how to stabilize the direction of drilling or prevent leakage of water therefrom. These products are non-toxic and rapidly degradable, however will be treated with extreme caution and will be used in the minimum quantities required and the time when circumstances so require.
The drilling program will be carried out under the constant supervision of geologists to ensure the quality of work and compliance by the contractor with the standards of environmental protection and safety set by the developer of the award.
The exploration will be mapped to locate progress and depth deviation. After completion of the wells will be jacketed with PVC plastic, a way to ensure that no occurrence of future accidents and ensure, if required, test some method of three-dimensional geophysical or any other study.
Evaluation of Results
Once the exploration program completed, all information generated by the laboratory analysis will be compiled into a specialized computer system. Vertical sections and plan be developed and a three-dimensional model of the mineralization. Similarly the economic potential of any found reservoir is modeled using geostatistical methods.
Possible extensions of mineralization and the occurrence of other previously unrecognized mineralized zones were considered. Based on these interpretations the next phase of the program will be designed, if the results obtained to date warrant will be a reserve evaluation using reverse circulation drilling. To complement this program drilling with diamond cutting and retrieval purposes witnesses detailing the geological knowledge of the area will continue.
If the drilling results continue to provide positive information, they will not stop until both are not managed through the mineralized zone, and the next step, once you have located a significant mineral resource is to conduct a preliminary feasibility study and consider all possible scenarios for an eventual mining operation.
Calculation of Mineral Reserves
From the geological information obtained and the contributions obtained from the test pits and boreholes in the area, we will select the áreas with greater potential and delimit deposits most relevant sites.
Thus determine the probable reserve of the Concesion Exploration for Basic and Precious Metals and Minerals (Gold, Silver, Copper, Zinc and Lead), called "LA MINA" to define lifetime, compared to operating model predefined would last the reserve of (the) site (s), determining all relevant investments at short, medium and long term.
Making Bi-annual and Annual Reports
To comply with the provisions of Article 72 of the Mining Law No. 146, dated 4 June 1971 and Regulation No. 207-98, we will submit to the Directorate General of Mines, Three (03) Semiannual Reports with the progress of major exploration activities during the three (03) years of this application. These reports will supply any additional information on progress related to development in the present application where Mining Concession is located.
The Interim Report will present the progress of exploratory work which will include the sequence of activities and expenditures.
The Annual Reports, will inform the results obtained during the period, including sampling, surveying and geological correlations, screening methods employed for localization and definition of deposits of mineral substances.
It is anticipated that during the first three years of exploration we will have enough information to decide whether waiving the requested area or an exploitation concession is requested.
Socio-Economic Environmental Study
In order to know in details all the features of the area to evaluate, we will make a general recognition of it, where we will measure:
Flora and Fauna
First you must know the vegetation of the area, what are the endemic plants of the region and where the main aquifer runoff are, for the purpose of making an inventory of the flora and fauna and in the future have defined the remediation plan it would be implemented at project completion.
Population
Population of major communities and their modus vivendis, main sources of income, profits or scope of communities regarding the possession of services such as electricity, drinking water supplies and other benefits, is a fundamental part of the study to be performed.
Ways of Communication
Major roads, be it roads and highways and conditions, will be essential for the advancement of the exploratory work guidance, as these allow us to have a major advance, allowing us to penetrate different areas, which will be the starting point for areas.
Economic Feasibility Study Project
With all aspects of both geological, mining, technological, environmental, logistical and social acquaintances, field studies will be prepare in orderto establish the economic feasibility for implementation of the project.
In this context, we will prepare a study of the market or the products and sub-products derived from the operations at local, regional and international levels to quantify all the costs associated with the production, the level of investment required for the development will be defined and implementation, and in the same way, parameters to measure the level of desirability or feasibility of using the investment needed in implementing the project evaluated and the return of the capital invested will be calculated.
Exploitation Concession Application
Geological explorations in the requested área called "LA MINA" has positive results, ie one or more anomalies and / or damage to metallic minerals with a law that allows a rational exploitation locate the area and the economic evaluation studies would evidence that these resources can be developed in an economically viable project, then all information obtained will be collected, and this compendium proceed to make the corresponding file to request the Dominican Government, through the Directorate General of mining, a mining concession area delimiting the deposit or deposits evaluated, following the requirements and standards set out in the Mining Act in force and the provisions of the Implementing Regulations of this Law and the governing body of the official mining sector.
Design Method of Operation
Knowing the geological and logistical conditions of the area and the distribution and amount of exploitable reserves, in the event that these justify their exploitation, and knowing the demand for raw materials of the project, the main characteristics or mining methods to be defined that they allow an optimal and rational use of useful resources, minimizing negative environmental effects, allowing us to maintain harmony among neighbors, as active principal, and adjust to a program of corporate social responsibility, to be efficient and the transfer of technology and modern mining techniques that were needed by.
As a structural study, defining the directions and dips, the geometry of the reservoir, we would identify the technology to be used, equipment, machinery, staff make rational exploitation of any mineral deposit, also determining demand and possible sources of supply for the project of water and energy resources.
Environmental Impact Assessment Project
Parallel to the request for granting exploitation of resources assessed and known technical features in the areas of geology, mining, calculation of reserves and others, and economic conditions of the project we intend to make in the requested area shall be dealing with the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources Terms of Reference for the EIA will be required to complete the permits for obtaining prior to the start of any mining operations Environmental License.
Following the specifications of the Terms of References cited and with the multidisciplinary team needed, the Environmental Impact Study and design of the Management Plan and Environmental Adjustment that must be implemented operations will take place before, during and after the conclusion.
As access for exploratory work mapping, sampling and drilling will be used the same roads used by villagers (farmers), so that logging or tree or shrub is not necessary, nor removal will be necessary topsoil throughout the exploration program (soil and rock geochemistry, geophysics and drilling).
So we would be betting on developing a mining based on a commitment to socio-environmental responsibility, maintaining a close relationship with the economic socio-physical-biotic and scenarios in different existing ecosystems, allowing participation of different social actors and designing instruments for the recovery and conservation of the environment and renewable natural resources, while sustainable development of mining and neighboring communities would be promoted as the established processes of environmental management model base environmental planning is created and renewable natural resources management plans through which they can achieve the goals of recovery, conservation and sustainable development to ensure that management involves environmental education and citizen participation, knowledge, conservation and sustainable use of biodiversity, pollution control, management, use and control of renewable natural resources.
Competitive Factors
We are a small exploration company with limited personnel and funds. There are many other exploration companies who have more personnel and funds at their disposal to carry out exploration and extraction on their concessions. Further, they will be able to attract expertise and workers better with higher salaries. This is a huge disadvantage for us.
Recursos Queliz’s Main Product
Recursos Queliz’s main product will be the sale, if a mineral ore reserve is identified on La Mina mineral property, of gold or other minerals that can be extracted from it once the claim has been explored.
Exploration Facilities
The Company has no plans to construct a mill or smelter on La Mina and the likely hood of an ore body being discovered is slight. While in the exploration stage, the crew of workers will be housed in tent located on La Mina or in is a town nearby and then the facilities in the town will be used. This will initially avoid building any structures either permanent or removable on La Mina.
We have no plant or significant equipment, nor are we going to buy any plant or significant equipment during the next twelve months. We will not buy any equipment until we have both located a body of ore on the mineral claim to be identified and have determined the economical feasibility of its extraction.
Employees
Besides the director, no other employees exist within the Company. For any future exploration program on La Mina, we will likely retain the services of the geologist. He will be responsible for hiring addition personnel to assist in the exploration as he sees fit. Once the exploration work is complete, the geologist and any other personnel he has hired will be terminated to reduce our on-going expenditures. Others may be hired on short-term bases as needed. Nevertheless, we are hoping to be able to hire full time employees once we have proven ore reserves on La Mina claim.
Consulting Fees
Other than the fees spent to prepare the effective registration statement, the Company is not expecting to hire any other consultants in the near future. This does not take into consideration consulting work relating to future geological reports on La Mina. Such consulting fees cannot be determined at this time.
Contractual Obligations
We currently have no contractual obligations. We have not entered into any contracts with the director, contracting geologist or other individuals or companies. There are no contracts for equipment or with mineral processing and refining facilities. There are also no contracts with potential purchaser or joint-venture partners.
Research and Development Expenditures
Recursos Queliz has not expended any money on research and development since its inception.
Patents and Trademarks
Recursos Queliz does not have any patents or trademarks.
ITEM 3.