Item 2. Properties.
Each of our power generation facilities has contracted to sell all or a majority of its output pursuant to a long-term, fixed-price power sale agreement with a creditworthy counterparty. We expect any power generation facility we acquire in the future will be party to a similar agreement, but we may acquire power generation facilities with greater levels of uncontracted capacity. See the table of our properties as of February 20, 2015 in Item 1. Business. Details of each property owned as of February 20, 2015 are described below.
Distributed Generation solar generation facilities
Distributed generation facilities provide customers with an alternative to traditional utility energy suppliers. Distributed resources are typically smaller in unit size and can be installed at a customer’s site, removing the need for lengthy transmission and distribution lines. By bypassing the traditional utility suppliers, distributed energy systems delink the customer’s price of power from external factors such as volatile commodity prices, costs of the incumbent energy supplier and some transmission and distribution charges. This makes it possible for distributed energy purchasers to buy energy at a predictable and stable price over a long period of time.
The PPAs for certain of our U.S. solar distributed generation facilities allow the offtake purchaser to elect to purchase the facility from us at a price equal to the greater of a specified amount in the PPA or fair market value. In addition, certain of our PPAs allow the offtake purchaser to terminate the PPA if we do not meet certain prescribed operating thresholds or performance measures or otherwise by the payment of an early termination fee, which would require us to remove the power generation facility from the offtaker’s site. These operating thresholds and performance measures are readily achievable in the normal operation of the power generation facilities.
CD DG Portfolio
We acquired the CD DG Portfolio on December 18, 2014. The CD DG Portfolio consists of 42 solar distributed generation facilities with an aggregate nameplate capacity of approximately 77.6 MW located in California, Massachusetts, New Jersey, New York and Pennsylvania. All of these facilities achieved commercial operations between 2011 and 2014.
All 42 solar distributed generation facilities were designed, engineered and constructed pursuant to various engineering, procurement and construction, or "EPC," contracts. All electricity output is sold pursuant to 20-25 year PPAs or net metering contracts to a mix of commercial, municipal, and utility-scale purchasers with an average credit rating that is investment grade. The facilities that are located in Massachusetts, Pennsylvania and New Jersey also benefit from the sale of RECs, the majority of which will be contracted for a period of at least five years with investment grade buyers.
U.S. Projects 2014
Our U.S. Projects 2014 portfolio consists of 41 canopy, groundmount and rooftop solar generation facilities with an aggregate nameplate capacity of approximately 45.4 MW located in Arizona, California, Connecticut, Georgia, Massachusetts, New Jersey, New York and Puerto Rico, 36 of which achieved commercial operations in 2014 with the remaining five sites achieving commercial operations in January 2015. The solar distributed generation facilities have been designed and engineered, and are being constructed pursuant to fixed-price turn-key EPC contracts with an affiliate of SunEdison. An affiliate of SunEdison provides day-to-day operations and maintenance services under 8-year O&M agreements, whose terms may be extended for additional 12-year periods by mutual agreement. We have a 100% ownership interest in all of the U.S. Projects 2014. The solar distributed generation facilities sell power to corporate entities (comprising approximately 20.8 MW), municipalities (comprising approximately 24.5 MW) and school districts (comprising approximately 2.9 MW).
The solar distributed generation facilities sell all of their energy output under separate 20 year PPAs with various creditworthy counterparties, except for one facility that has a PPA with a term of 10 years (2.7 MW). In addition, many of the California power generation facilities receive incremental cash flow from five-year production based incentives from the California Solar Initiative. The solar distributed generation facilities also receive revenue from contracted and un-contracted RECs in the states of California, Connecticut, Massachusetts and New Jersey.
HES Portfolio
The HES Portfolio consists of 101 operational solar distributed generation facilities having an aggregate nameplate capacity of 25.3 MW. The solar distributed generation facilities reached commercial operation between 2011 and 2014, and are located in Massachusetts, New Jersey and Pennsylvania. A third party provider provides day-to-day operations and maintenance services.
Each of the solar distributed generation facilities sells all of its energy output under separate 15-25 year PPAs with various creditworthy counterparties. The PPA offtake agreements are with corporate and other entities (representing approximately 10.0 MW), municipalities/government entities (representing approximately 2.1 MW), school districts (representing approximately 13.0 MW) and residential rooftop installations (representing approximately 0.2 MW). The solar distributed generation facilities also receive revenues from contracted RECs in New Jersey.
DG 2014 Portfolio 1
The DG 2014 Portfolio 1 currently consists of 19 canopy, ground mount and rooftop solar distributed generation facilities. We expect to acquire an additional 33 solar distributed generation facilities currently on the Call Right Project list, all of which are currently under construction, or construction is expected to begin in the second quarter of 2015. The facilities have an aggregate nameplate capacity of approximately 43.8 MW. All of the facilities are expected to achieve commercial operations prior to the end of the third quarter of 2015. The facilities are located in Arizona, California, Georgia, Hawaii, Massachusetts, Maryland, New Jersey, New York, Oregon, Puerto Rico, Texas and Vermont.
The solar distributed generation facilities in the DG 2014 Portfolio 1 have been designed and engineered, and are being constructed, pursuant to fixed-price, turn-key EPC contracts with an affiliate of SunEdison. An affiliate of SunEdison will also provide day-to-day operations and maintenance services under 10-year O&M agreements, the terms of which may be extended for additional periods by mutual agreement. We will have a 100% ownership interest in all of the DG 2014 Portfolio 1 facilities upon their construction completion. The facilities sell power to corporate entities, municipalities, and school districts.
All but 2.9 MW of the aggregate nameplate capacity of the 52 solar distributed generation facilities in the DG 2014 Portfolio 1 is sold under separate 15-25 year PPAs with various creditworthy counterparties. The portfolio has a weighted average contract life of approximately 20 years. A number of the California solar distributed generation facilities in the portfolio receive incremental cash flow from five-year production based incentives from the California Solar Initiative. In addition, the solar distributed generation facilities in Massachusetts, Maryland, and New Jersey receive revenue from contracted and un-contracted RECs.
Summit Solar Projects
On May 22, 2014, we signed a purchase and sale agreement to acquire the equity interests in 50 operational solar generation facilities with a combined capacity of 19.6 MW located in the U.S. from Nautilus Solar PV Holdings, Inc. In addition, we acquired seven operational solar generation facilities in Canada with a total capacity of 3.8 MW.
The Summit Solar Projects portfolio has an aggregate nameplate capacity of 23.4 MW and consists of 57 canopy, groundmount and rooftop facilities located in California, Connecticut, Florida, Maryland, New Jersey and Ontario (Canada). The facilities commenced operations between 2007 and 2014. An affiliate of SunEdison provides day-to-day operations and maintenance services under 5-year O&M agreements, the terms of which may be extended for additional 5- year periods by mutual agreement.
The solar generation facilities sell all of their output under 50 separate 10-20 year PPAs in the U.S. and seven FIT contracts in Canada to school districts, municipalities, municipal and public utilities, businesses, a community center, a public non-profit institute, a university and private schools. The U.S. facilities also generate RECs, the majority of which are contracted to investment grade buyers at a fixed price for a period of up to ten years.
Enfinity
Our Enfinity portfolio consists of 16 operational solar distributed generation facilities across six host customers with an aggregate nameplate capacity of 15.7 MW. The facilities reached commercial operation between 2011 and 2013, and are located in Arizona, California, Colorado and Ohio. An affiliate of SunEdison provides day-to-day operations and maintenance services under 10-year O&M agreements, the terms of which may be extended for additional 10-year periods by mutual agreement.
Each of the solar distributed generation facilities sells all of its energy output under separate 15-20 year PPAs with various creditworthy counterparties. The PPAs are with corporate entities (representing approximately 9.8 MW), municipalities/government entities (representing approximately 3.7 MW) and school districts (representing approximately 2.2 MW). The facilities also generate revenues from contracted RECs in Arizona and Colorado, and the California solar distributed generation facility receives incremental cash flow from a five-year production based incentive from the California Solar Initiative. The Denver Housing Authority Projects (2.5 MW) in the portfolio are residential rooftop installations.
U.S. Projects 2009-2013
Our U.S. Projects 2009-2013 portfolio has an aggregate nameplate capacity of 15.3 MW and consists of: (i) a distributed generation portfolio consisting of 73 canopy, groundmount and rooftop solar generation facilities with an aggregate nameplate capacity of 13.2 MW located in California, Colorado, Connecticut, Massachusetts, New Jersey, and Oregon, and (ii) a distributed generation portfolio consisting of five rooftop solar generation facilities with an aggregate nameplate capacity of 2.0 MW located in Puerto Rico. The solar distributed generation facilities in Puerto Rico commenced operations between 2012 and 2013 while the remaining facilities commenced operations between 2009 and 2012. We have a 100% ownership interest in all of the U.S. Projects 2009-2013. The U.S. Projects 2009-2013 sell power to various corporate entities (comprising 8.3 MW), municipalities (comprising 3.7 MW), school districts (comprising 1.9 MW) and REIT/developer entities (comprising 1.4 MW). An affiliate of SunEdison provides day-to-day operations and maintenance services under long-term O&M agreements.
The facilities in the United States sell all of their energy output under 68 separate 10-20 year PPAs with various creditworthy counterparties, except for a 121 KW solar distributed generation facility that has a PPA with a term of 10 years. In addition, many of the facilities receive incremental cash flow from 5-20 year production-based incentives from the California Solar Initiative and Colorado’s Xcel Solar*Rewards. The solar distributed generation facilities in the United States also receive revenue from contracted and un-contracted RECs in California, Connecticut, Massachusetts and New Jersey. The solar distributed generation facilities in Puerto Rico sell all of their energy under separate PPAs with various creditworthy counterparties and have 15-20 year terms.
California Public Institutions
Our California Public Institutions solar distributed generation facilities consist of five separate groundmount solar generation facilities with an aggregate nameplate capacity of approximately 13.5 MW located in California. Three of the facilities (representing approximately 9.3 MW) achieved commercial operations in December 2013 with the remaining two facilities (representing approximately 4.2 MW) achieving commercial operations in July 2014. The facilities were designed, engineered and constructed pursuant to fixed-price turn-key EPC contracts with an affiliate of SunEdison. An affiliate of our SunEdison provides day-to-day operations and maintenance services under 20-year O&M agreements, the terms of which may be extended by mutual agreement.
Four of the facilities in the portfolio supply electricity to prisons in California and one facility supplies electricity to a hospital in California. All electricity output is sold pursuant to a 20-year PPA with the State of California acting through the Department of Corrections and Rehabilitation and the Department of State Hospitals, as applicable. In addition, the three operational facilities receive incremental cash flow from five-year production based incentives through the California Solar Initiative.
Under a tax-equity financing arrangement our subsidiaries lease the facilities to a master tenant. Currently, we have a 1% and the tax equity investor has a 99% ownership interest in the master tenant. On the fifth anniversary of the tax equity financing, we will have a 67% and the tax equity investor will have a 33% ownership interest in the master tenant. Distributions from the master tenant are not subject to restrictive covenants. Additionally, we have a 51% ownership interest and the master tenant has a 49% ownership in the holding company for the solar distributed generation facility subsidiaries.
MA Operating
Our MA Operating portfolio consists of four groundmount solar distributed generation facilities with an aggregate nameplate capacity of 12.2 MW located in Massachusetts. The facilities commenced operations in 2012 and 2013. The facilities were designed, engineered and constructed under an EPC contract with Gehrlicher Solar America Corp., and Gehrlicher Solar America Corp. provides day-to-day operations and maintenance services under a 10-year O&M Agreement.
All electricity output is sold pursuant to 20-year PPAs with investment grade municipal customers. The PPA customer is obligated to pay us a fixed percentage of each virtual net metering credit generated by the solar generation facility. The virtual net metering credit is derived from the National Grid G-1 electricity tariff. In addition, the facilities generate RECs through the end of 2023, the majority of which will be contracted for a period of at least five years with an investment grade buyer.
SunE Solar Fund X
The SunE Solar Fund X consists of 12 solar distributed generation facilities with an aggregate nameplate capacity of approximately 8.8 MW located in California, Maryland, and New Mexico. The facilities achieved commercial operations between June 2010 and February 2011. The facilities were designed, engineered and constructed pursuant to EPC contracts with an affiliate of SunEdison. Another affiliate of SunEdison provides day-to-day operations and maintenance services under O&M agreements, the terms of which will match those of the PPAs.
All electricity output is sold pursuant to 20-25 year PPAs to customers including universities, a municipality, and corporations. In addition, several of the facilities receive incremental cash flow from production-based incentives through the California Solar Initiative. The facilities also receive revenue from contracted RECs in the states of California, Maryland and New Mexico.
In 2010, SunEdison entered into a sale-leaseback transaction with J.P. Morgan with respect to the facilities in the portfolio. A subsidiary of SunEdison served as the lessee and a J.P. Morgan subsidiary as the lessor of the facilities. On May 16, 2014, we executed a purchase and sale agreement pursuant to which we acquired J.P. Morgan’s equity interests in the facility lessor under the sale-leaseback transaction and removed any interest J.P. Morgan had in the facilities.
DG 2015 Portfolio 2
Our DG 2015 Portfolio 2 consists of solar distributed generation facilities with an aggregate nameplate capacity of 2.6 MW and approximately 52.0 MW of additional projects identified as Call Right Projects, all under a partnership flip structure with a U.S. tax equity participant. The facilities have completed construction or are expected to start construction by the end of the second quarter of 2015 and the facilities will be purchased by the partnership by the end of the third quarter of 2015.
The facilities are located in the United States across Arizona, California, Massachusetts, New York, Oregon, Utah and Puerto Rico. Each of the facilities has an executed PPA with a term between 10 - 25 years. The power offtakers under the PPAs consist of corporate, municipal, and school district customers. The facilities are designed and constructed by an affiliate of SunEdison and an affiliate of SunEdison will provide day-to-day operations and maintenance services pursuant to a 10 year Master Servicing Agreement.
MA Solar
MA Solar is a 21.1 MW group of four solar distributed generation facilities located in the towns of Millbury and Warren, Massachusetts, which commenced commercial operations in May 2014. MA Solar has contracts with four different municipal and state supported educational institution counterparties to sell 100% of the electrical output. Each of the facilities sells all of its energy output under 25 year PPAs with various creditworthy counterparties
Utility-scale solar generation facilities
Our utility-scale solar generation facility are power plants where either the purchaser of the electricity is an electric utility entity or where power is delivered directly to the grid.
Mt. Signal
Mt. Signal is a groundmount utility-scale solar generation facility located in Imperial County, California with a nameplate capacity of approximately 265.8 MW. Mt. Signal achieved commercial operations in three phases from Q4 2013 through Q1 2014. The facility was designed, engineered, constructed and commissioned pursuant to an EPC agreement with an unaffiliated third party. An affiliate of SunEdison provides day-to-day operations and maintenance services under a five-year O&M agreement, the terms of which may be extended for four additional five-year periods by mutual agreement.
The facility sells 100% of its electricity generation, including environmental attributes and ancillary products and services from the facility, to San Diego Gas & Electric, pursuant to a 25-year PPA that expires in March 2039. The price under the PPA is a stated price per MWh, which is adjusted by time-of-day factors resulting in higher payments during peak hours.
Regulus Solar
Regulus Solar is a groundmount utility-scale solar generation facility located in Kern County, California with a nameplate capacity of approximately 81.6 MW. The facility achieved commercial operations in November 2014. The facility was designed, engineered, constructed and commissioned pursuant to an EPC agreement with an affiliate of SunEdison. An affiliate of SunEdison provides day-to-day operations and maintenance services under a 5-year O&M agreement, the terms of which may be extended for additional 5-year periods by mutual agreement.
All energy, capacity, green attributes and ancillary products and services from the facility are sold to Southern California Edison pursuant to a 20-year PPA that expires in December 2034. Revenues consist of a fixed payment based on production, which is adjusted by time-of-day factors resulting in higher payments during peak hours.
North Carolina Portfolio
The North Carolina Portfolio consists of four groundmount utility-scale solar generation facility with an aggregate nameplate capacity of approximately 26.4 MW. One of these facilities achieved commercial operations in November 2014, one achieved commercial operations in December 2014 and the remaining two facilities achieved commercial operations in January 2015. The facilities were designed, engineered, constructed and commissioned pursuant to an EPC agreement with an affiliate of SunEdison. An affiliate of SunEdison provides day-to-day operations and maintenance services under O&M agreements, the terms of which may be extended through 20-year periods by mutual agreement.
All energy and capacity generated by the North Carolina Portfolio will be sold to Progress Energy Carolinas pursuant to 15-year PPAs for fixed prices based on electricity production, which is adjusted by time-of-day factors resulting in higher payments during peak hours. The green attributes and ancillary products and services from the facilities are not subject to the PPAs and will be sold to various customers at market prices.
Atwell Island
Atwell Island is a 23.5 MW utility-scale solar generation facility located in Tulare County, California, which commenced operations in March 2013. The facility was engineered, constructed and commissioned pursuant to an EPC agreement with Samsung Solar Construction Inc., who also subcontracted to a wholly owned subsidiary of Quanta Services Inc. This subsidiary provides day-today operations and maintenance services under a three-year O&M agreement that ends in March 2016. The term of the agreement may be extended by mutual agreement of the parties.
The facility sells 100% of its electricity generation, including environmental attributes and ancillary products and services from the facility, to Pacific Gas & Electric (“PG&E”) pursuant to a 25-year PPA that expires in March 2038. The price under the PPA is a stated price per MWh, which escalates annually for the remainder of the delivery term. The PPA price is also adjusted by time-of-day factors resulting in higher payments during peak hours.
Nellis
Nellis is a groundmount utility-scale solar generation facility with a nameplate capacity of approximately 14.0 MW located on the Nellis Air Force Base (“Nellis AFB”) near Las Vegas, Nevada. The facility achieved commercial operations in December 2007. The facility is structured as a limited liability company, in which we hold the position of the investor member, while SunEdison continues to hold the position of the managing member. An affiliate of SunEdison provides day-to-day operations and maintenance services under a 5-year O&M agreement, the terms of which may be extended annually by mutual agreement.
The facility has a ground lease with Nellis AFB until January 1, 2028. The facility derives approximately 90% of its revenues from a Portfolio Energy Credit Purchase Agreement with the Nevada Power Company (“NPC”) Under the agreement, NPC purchases all of the Portfolio Energy Credits produced by the facility at a fixed rate for 20 years from January 1, 2008 to help meet NPC’s renewable energy portfolio obligations under Nevada law. The remaining revenues of the facility comes from the sale of energy and capacity generated by the facility to Nellis AFB pursuant to an indefinite life PPA subject to one-year reauthorizations at the option of the United States federal government.
Alamosa
Alamosa is a groundmount utility-scale solar generation facility in Alamosa, Colorado with a nameplate capacity of approximately 8.2 MW. The facility achieved commercial operations in December 2007. The facility was designed, engineered, constructed and commissioned by an affiliate of SunEdison. An affiliate of SunEdison provides day-to-day operations and maintenance services under an O&M agreement, the terms of which match those of the PPA.
All electricity, green attributes and ancillary services produced by the Alamosa facility are sold to the Public Service Company of Colorado through a 20-year, fixed-price PPA, which expires on December 31, 2027.
In 2007, SunEdison entered into a sale-leaseback transaction with Union Bank, N.A. with respect to the Alamosa facility. A subsidiary of SunEdison served as the lessee and a Union Bank subsidiary as the lessor of the facility. In 2014, we acquired 100% of the interests of both the lessee and the lessor of the facility, as a result of which Union Bank, N.A. no longer has any interest in the facility.
CalRENEW-1
CalRENEW-1 is a groundmount utility-scale solar generation facility located in Mendota, California with a nameplate capacity of approximately 6.3 MW. This facility achieved commercial operations in April 2010. The facility was designed, engineered, constructed and commissioned pursuant to an EPC agreement with Golden State Utility Company. We intend for an affiliate of SunEdison to provide day-to-day operation and maintenance services under a long-term O&M agreement.
All energy, green attributes and ancillary services from the facility are sold to PG&E pursuant to a 20-year PPA that expires in April 2030. Revenues consist of a fixed payment based on production, which is adjusted based on time-of-day factors resulting in higher payments during peak hours.
Marsh Hill
Marsh Hill is a groundmount utility-scale solar generation facility with a nameplate capacity of approximately 18.7 MW located in the municipality of Scugog in eastern Ontario, Canada. The facility is expected to achieve commercial operations in June 2015. We own 72% of the facility and the remaining 28% ownership interest is retained by the original developer of the facility and will be transferred to us upon the facility achieving commercial operation. The facility is being designed, engineered, constructed and commissioned pursuant to an EPC agreement with an affiliate of SunEdison. An affiliate of SunEdison will provide day-to-day operations and maintenance services under a 5-year O&M agreement, the terms of whcih may be extended for additional 5-year periods by mutual agreement.
All energy, green attributes and ancillary services from the facility are sold to the Ontario Power Authority pursuant to a PPA that expires 20 years after achieving commercial operation (approximately June 2035). Revenues consist of a fixed payment based on production, with no annual escalation.
SunE Perpetual Lindsay
SunE Perpetual Lindsay is a groundmount utility-scale solar generation facility with a nameplate capacity of approximately 15.5 MW located in Lindsay, Ontario, Canada. The facility achieved commercial operations in December 2014. The facility is being designed, engineered, constructed and commissioned pursuant to an EPC agreement with an affiliate of SunEdison. An affiliate of SunEdison provides day-to-day operations and maintenance services under a 5-year O&M agreement, the terms of which may be extended for additional 5-year periods by mutual agreement.
All energy, capacity, green attributes and ancillary products and services from the facility are sold to the Ontario Power Authority pursuant to a PPA that expires in December 2034. Revenues consist of a fixed payment based on production, with no annual escalation.
U.K. 2014 Projects
The U.K. 2014 Projects portfolio has an aggregate nameplate capacity of 88.3 MW and consists of the Stonehenge Q1 portfolio (the Fareham, Knowlton and Westwood groundmount utility-scale solar generation facilities) and the Says Court, Crucis Farm, and Norrington facilities. Our Stonehenge Q1 portfolio has a total nameplate capacity of approximately 41.2 MW, our Says Court facility has a nameplate capacity of approximately 19.8 MW, our Crucis Farm facility has a nameplate capacity of approximately 16.1 MW, and our Norrington facility has a nameplate capacity of approximately 11.2 MW. The Stonehenge Q1 portfolio and Says Court achieved commercial operations in March 2014. Crucis Farm achieved commercial operations in the July 2014 while Norrington achieved commercial operations in June 2014. We have a 100% ownership interest in each of the facilities.
Each of the facilities were constructed pursuant to an EPC contract with an affiliate of SunEdison. An affiliate of SunEdison also provides operations and maintenance services under 10-year O&M agreements, which may be extended for additional 10-year terms at our election.
Each of the facilities sells all of its electricity, ROCs, embedded benefits and LECs under 15-year PPAs with an affiliate of Statkraft A/S. Pricing of the electricity sold under these PPAs, which is expected to constitute about 40% of the revenues under the PPAs, is fixed for the first four years of the PPAs, after which the price is subject to an adjustment based on current market prices (subject to a price floor). Pricing for ROCs, which is expected to constitute about 55% of the revenues under the PPAs, is fixed by U.K. laws or regulations for the entire PPA term. Pricing for LECs and embedded benefits, which jointly constitute about 5% of the revenues under the PPAs, is indexed to prices set by U.K. laws or regulations.
Fairwinds and Crundale
Fairwinds and Crundale are two groundmount solar generation facilities in the U.K. with an aggregate nameplate capacity of 50.0 MW. Fairwinds achieved commercial operations in September 2014 and Crundale achieved commercial operations in October 2014. These were Call Right Projects that we acquired from SunEdison on November 4, 2014.
The facilities were constructed pursuant to an EPC contract with an affiliate of SunEdison. An affiliate of SunEdison will also provide operations and maintenance services under a 10-year O&M agreement, which may be extended for an additional 10-year term at our election.
Both facilities have entered into 15-year PPAs with an affiliate of Statkraft A/S under which they will sell all of their electricity, ROCs, embedded benefits and Climate Change LECs. Pricing of the electricity sold under these PPAs, which is expected to constitute about 40% of the revenues under the PPAs, is fixed for the first four years of the PPAs, after which the price is subject to an adjustment based on current market prices (subject to a price floor). Pricing for ROCs, which is expected to constitute about 55% of the revenues under the PPAs, is fixed by U.K. laws or regulations for the entire PPA term. Pricing for LECs and embedded benefits, which jointly constitute about 5% of the revenues under the PPAs, is indexed to prices set by U.K. laws or regulations.
Stonehenge Operating
The Stonehenge Operating portfolio has an aggregate nameplate capacity of 23.6 MW and consists of the Langunnett, West Farm, and Manston groundmount utility-scale solar generation facilities. Our Langunnett facility has a nameplate capacity of approximately 6.2 MW and achieved commercial operations in March 2013. Our West Farm facility has a nameplate capacity of approximately 7.6 MW and achieved commercial operations in March 2013. Our Manston 6 facility has a nameplate capacity of approximately 9.8 MW and achieved commercial operations in May 2013. Vogt Solar Ltd. provides day-to day operations and maintenance services to the facilities under 2-year O&M agreements. Upon expiration of these O&M agreements in 2015, we expect to enter into 10-year O&M agreements with an affiliate of SunEdison.
Each of the facilities sells all of its electricity, ROCs, embedded benefits and LECs under 14-year PPAs to Total Gas & Power Limited. Pricing of the electricity sold under these PPAs, which constitutes about 45% of the revenues under the PPAs, is fixed for the first five years of the PPAs, after which the price is subject to an adjustment based on the current market price (subject to a price floor). Pricing for ROCs, which is expected to constitute about 54% of the revenues under the PPAs, is fixed by U.K. laws or regulations.
CAP
CAP is a groundmount utility-scale solar generation facility with a nameplate capacity of 101.6 MW located near the city of Copiapó in north-central Chile. It is connected to the Chilean Central Interconnected System and achieved commercial operations in March 2014. The facility was designed, engineered and constructed pursuant to a construction contract with an affiliate of SunEdison. An affiliate of SunEdison provides day-to-day operations and maintenance services under a 5-year O&M agreement, the terms of which may be extended for up to three additional 5-year periods at our election.
All energy, green attributes and ancillary services from the facility are sold under a 20-year PPA with Compañía Minera del Pacífico, S.A. (“CMP”) an affiliate of CAP, S.A., a leading iron ore mining and steel company. The U.S. dollar denominated PPA serves as a contract for differences, pursuant to which CMP guarantees the payment of a fixed price per MWh of electricity produced, which increases semiannually with inflation. In connection with the PPA, CAP and its affiliates were granted an option to acquire up to 40% of the shares of the facility from us pursuant to a predetermined purchase price formula. CAP can exercise this option during a period of two years from achieving commercial operations, which occurred in March 2014.
Utility-scale wind power plants
Cohocton
Cohocton is a 125.0 MW power plant in Steuben County, New York. Cohocton commenced commercial operations in January 2009. The power plant consists of fifty 2.5 MW Clipper turbines. Similar to Mars Hill (described below), Cohocton qualifies a portion of its energy for New England RECs. We began self-performing turbine O&M work in the first quarter of 2013.
Energy from Cohocton is sold to the New York Independent System Operator, or “NYISO.” To stabilize Cohocton’s electricity revenue, we entered into a swap with Citigroup Energy Inc., or “Citigroup,” for approximately 80% of expected generation through the end of 2020. 40% of Cohocton's RECs are sold to the NYSERDA under a long-term agreement and approximately 43% of Cohocton's RECs are sold to an affiliate of Citigroup under a long-term contract as New England RECs, since we sell the related generation output in New England. The remaining RECs are sold to various other counterparties.
Rollins
Rollins is a 60.0 MW expansion power plant in Penobscot County, Maine, which commenced operation in July 2011. Rollins consists of forty 1.5 MW GE turbines and includes an approximately 8-mile 115 kV generator lead that ties into the existing 38-mile generator lead that serves the Stetson I and Stetson II power plants. The land on which Rollins is located is leased from private landowners under lease agreements with 25 to 27-year terms and options to extend the leases for an additional 20 years. The power plant has turbine O&M and warranty agreements with GE through December 2019.
All of Rollins’ energy and capacity is sold to two utilities in Maine under 20-year PPAs. Approximately 72% of the power plant’s RECs are hedged under a separate 5-year contract with Vitol Group, an energy trading company, which expires in 2016.
Stetson I
Stetson I is a 57.0 MW power plant in Washington County, Maine that became operational in January 2009. The power plant consists of thirty eight 1.5 MW GE turbines. As part of the Stetson I power plant, a 38-mile, 200 MW, 115 kV generator lead was constructed to interconnect to the ISO New England Inc., or "ISO NE" power grid. The capacity of the transmission line was overbuilt by 140 MW to accommodate future expansions, 25.5 MW of which is now being used by the Stetson II power plant and 60.0 MW by the Rollins power plant. The power plant has turbine O&M and warranty agreements with GE through December 2019.
As Stetson I connects directly into ISO NE, all of its generation qualifies for New England RECs. Those RECs are sold to numerous counterparties, similar to Mars Hill and Cohocton. Power from Stetson I is sold separately directly into ISO NE, at a floating price at the point of sale. The point of sale has historically traded at a modest discount to Mass Hub, a liquid hub where electricity is traded. A 10-year fixed-for-floating financial swap was entered into with an affiliate of Exelon Generation Company (“Exelon”) for approximately 74% of the expected output of Stetson I and a portion of the expected output from Stetson II. Stetson I was among the first power plants for which an ARRA grant was given.
Mars Hill
Mars Hill is a 42.0 MW power plant located in Mars Hill, Maine, which commenced commercial operations in March 2007. The power plant consists of twenty eight 1.5 MW GE turbines. The power plant has turbine O&M and warranty agreements with GE through December 2019.
The power plant has an agreement to sell electricity under a PPA with New Brunswick Power Generation Corporation, which expires at the end of February 2016 and provides for the purchase of the entire output of electricity and RECs from the power plant. Mars Hill qualified for and receives PTCs.
Sheffield
Sheffield is a 40.0 MW power plant in Sheffield, Vermont, which commenced operation in October 2011. Sheffield consists of sixteen 2.5 MW Clipper turbines. Lease agreements have been entered into with private landowners with 23 to 27-year terms and options to extend the leases for an additional 20 years. The power plant obtained the first Certificate of Public Good granted by the Vermont Public Service Board for a utility-scale wind energy power plant since 1996. Sheffield sells its power through four PPAs with three Vermont utilities: two PPAs with the Vermont Electric Cooperative, or "VEC," one with the City of Burlington, acting through the Burlington Electric Department, or "BED," and one with the Washington Electric Cooperative, or "WEC." The PPAs with VEC include a 10-year contract for 25% of the electricity and RECs generated by the power plant and a 20-year contract for 25% of the electricity generated during the first 10 years and 50% of the electricity generated during years 11-20. The PPA with WEC includes a 20-year contract for 10% of the electricity and RECs generated by the power plant, and the PPA with BED includes a 10-year contract for 40% of the electricity and RECs generated. During the subsequent 10 years following the expiration of the BED PPA, the remaining 40% of the electricity and RECs generated is not contracted.
Bull Hill
Bull Hill is an approximately 34.5 MW power plant located on the Bull Hill and Heifer Hill ridges near Eastbrook, Maine. The power plant commenced commercial operation in October 2012. The power plant consists of nineteen 1.8 MW Vestas turbines. The power plant has a 15-year, fixed price PPA for 32.4 MW of the power plant’s electric power and RECs with NSTAR. Turbine maintenance and warranty coverage is provided by Vestas under a 10-year service, maintenance and warranty agreement commencing at final commissioning of the power plant.
Kaheawa Wind Power I
KWP I is a 30.0 MW power plant in the West Maui Mountains of Maui, Hawaii, which commenced commercial operations in June 2006. The power plant consists of twenty 1.5 MW GE turbines. The Company purchased the development rights to KWP I in June 2004. The power plant has turbine O&M and warranty agreements with GE through December 2019.
KWP I has a 20-year PPA for power with the Maui Electric Company, or "MECO," with a remaining term of approximately 12 years. The PPA is 100% fixed price. Prior to an amendment approved in 2012, 30% of the price of the PPA was linked to MECO’s avoided cost. The amendment delinked the PPA price from avoided cost and set a new fixed payment
rate for 100% of the generation. KWP I qualified for and receives PTCs and MACRS depreciation, along with cash payments under its PPA.
Kahuku
Kahuku is a 30.0 MW power plant on land owned or leased by the Company on the north shore of Oahu, Hawaii, which commenced commercial operations on March 23, 2011. The power plant consists of twelve 2.5 MW Clipper turbines. Kahuku connects directly into the Hawaii Electric Company's, or "HECO," transmission system through a transmission line that transects the power plant area. A 20-year fixed-price PPA has been executed with HECO and approved by the Hawaiian Public Utilities Commission.
In August 2012, a fire struck Kahuku destroying the power plant’s battery energy storage system, or "BESS", and the associated BESS enclosure building. The power plant’s substation control room, which was housed in the BESS enclosure building, was also destroyed. Since the fire, the Company has rebuilt Kahuku’s substation control room and equipment within a stand-alone enclosure, and installed a dynamic volt-amp reactive system, or "D-Var." The D-Var provides voltage regulation and stability to meet the interconnection requirements of HECO and replaces some critical functionality (overvoltage mitigation) that was once provided by the BESS. Kahuku received business interruption insurance and property damage insurance to minimize the financial result of the loss. The power plant is currently connected to the grid and has completed system testing with HECO. As part of the rebuilding process and in concert with HECO, the PPA was amended to include revised interconnection and performance standards to reflect the shift from the BESS to the D-Var, as well as a change to the fixed energy price received by Kahuku based on the same and the amendment is pending regulatory approval.
Stetson II
Stetson II is a 25.5 MW expansion power plant in Washington County, Maine. Construction on Stetson II began in October 2009, and commenced commercial operations in March 2010. The power plant consists of seventeen 1.5 MW GE turbines. Stetson II uses the existing infrastructure at Stetson I, including Stetson I’s generator lead, substation and interconnection equipment. The power plant has turbine O&M and warranty agreements with GE through December 2019.
Half of Stetson II’s electricity and RECs is being sold to Harvard University under a long-term PPA. The other half of the power plant's electricity is being sold directly into ISO NE. The revenue from the majority of the portion of the facility’s energy being sold into the market is hedged with a financial swap with an affiliate of Exelon. The majority of remaining REC volumes are sold to an affiliate of Citigroup under a 10-year contract. Approximately 79% of Stetson II’s expected electricity and REC output is covered by a PPA or otherwise hedged through 2019. An ARRA grant of approximately $19 million was received for Stetson II in June 2010.
Kaheawa Wind Power II
KWP II is a 21.0 MW expansion power plant adjacent to the KWP I site on Maui. The power plant consists of fourteen 1.5 MW GE turbines and commenced operation in July 2012. KWP II connects to MECO’s 69 kV transmission system, which crosses the site. A directed lease agreement was entered into with Hawaii’s Department of Land and Natural Resources, as well as, a long-term PPA for 100% of the power plant’s electric power and RECs with MECO. The power plant has turbine O&M and warranty agreements with GE through December 2019.
KWP II uses a battery system to help mesh the output of the power plant with the grid. The battery system helps stabilize the amount of power available from the power plant and limit curtailment, which is important because Maui has a small electricity grid. The battery system commenced operation along with the wind energy power plant in July 2012.
Steel Winds I & II
Steel Winds consists of two power plants located on the shores of Lake Erie in Lackawanna, New York. The initial phase, or “Steel Winds I,” commenced commercial operations in June 2007, and is a 20.0 MW power plant. Steel Winds II is a 15.0 MW expansion and reached commercial operation in January 2012. The power plants consist of fourteen 2.5 MW Clipper turbines.
Power generated by the power plants is sold at floating power prices within NYISO Zone A. To stabilize this revenue, a swap for the two combined power plants was entered into with Morgan Stanley Capital Group, which expires in 2019. The volume of this swap is approximately 83% of Steel Winds’ expected output. Steel Winds II has a contract with the New York
State Energy Research and Development Authority for the sale of 95% of its RECs, which expires in 2022. In addition, the power plants share short-term REC contracts with several counter parties that expire on various dates through 2015.
Item 3.