ITEM 2
PROPERTIES
Our Operations
Our Areas of Operation
California is one of the most prolific oil and natural gas producing regions in the world and is the third largest oil producing state in the nation. According to DOGGR, cumulative California production from all four basins in which we operate is 35 billion barrels of oil equivalent ("BBoe"), including approximately 19 BBoe in the San Joaquin basin, 10 BBoe in Los Angeles basin, 4 BBoe in Ventura basin and 10 trillion cubic feet ("Tcf") of natural gas in Sacramento basin. Additionally, Kern County has been the largest oil producing county in the lower 48 states for a number of years. California imports more than 60% of its oil, mostly from foreign locations, and 90% of its natural gas. Because of limited crude transportation infrastructure from other parts of the country to California, the California market is generally isolated from the rest of the nation, which has typically allowed California producers to receive Brent-based prices, which are international waterborne prices. Brent prices were at a premium to WTI-based prices for comparable grades in recent years. Our operations include 137 fields with 9,331 gross active wellbores as of December 31, 2014. We believe we are the largest private oil and natural gas mineral acreage holder in California, with interests in approximately 2.4 million net acres. Approximately 60% of our total net mineral interest position is held in fee. A majority of our interests are in producing properties located in reservoirs characterized by what we believe to be long-lived production profiles with repeatable development opportunities.
Across all of our California operations, we drilled 1,048 development wells in 2014, of which 83% were producers and the rest were injectors. Our 2014 drilling capital was approximately $1.3 billion. Our 2014 total capital of $2.1 billion also included investments in support equipment, facilities, workovers and exploration. Our capital program added 118 MMBoe of proved reserves in 2014 representing a 203% reserve replacement ratio, calculated by using the proved reserves additions from our capital program for 2014 divided by our 2014 production of 58 MMBoe.
San Joaquin Basin
We actively operate and are developing 45 fields in this inland basin in the southern part of California's central valley which consists of conventional primary, IOR, EOR and unconventional project types with approximately 1.6 million net acres, approximately 62% of which we hold in fee. Approximately 68% of our estimated proved reserves as of December 31, 2014 and 70% of our average daily net production for the year ended December 31, 2014 were located in the San Joaquin basin.
According to DOGGR, approximately 74% of California’s daily oil production for 2013 was produced in the San Joaquin basin. Commercial petroleum development began in the basin in the 1800s. Rapid discovery of many of the largest oil accumulations followed during the next several decades, including the Elk Hills field. We have been redeveloping this field and building our expertise to use in other fields across the state. According to the U.S. Geological Survey as of 2012, the San Joaquin basin contained three of the 10 largest oil fields in the United States based on cumulative production and proved reserves. Most discovered oil accumulations occur in Eocene-age through Pleistocene-age sedimentary sections. Source rocks are organic-rich shales from the Monterey, Kreyenhagen and Tumey formations. In the 1960s, introduction of thermal techniques resulted in substantial new additions to reserves in heavy oil fields. We have been successfully developing steamfloods in our Kern Front operations, which are located next to the giant Kern River field, and in the northwest portion of the Lost Hills field. Starting in the 1980s, reserves additions have continued in the Monterey formation on the west side of the basin and in our new conventional field discoveries. The basin contains multiple stacked formations throughout its areal extent, and we believe that the San Joaquin basin provides an appealing inventory of existing field re-development opportunities, as well as new play discovery and unconventional play potential. The complex stratigraphy and structure in the San Joaquin basin has allowed continuing discoveries of stratigraphic and structural traps. We believe our extensive 3D seismic library, which covers over 2,972 square miles in the San Joaquin basin, including approximately 50% of our San Joaquin acreage, will give us a competitive advantage in further exploring this basin.
We have established a large ownership interest in several of the largest existing oil fields in the San Joaquin basin, including Elk Hills, our largest producing field, as well as the Buena Vista and Kettleman North Dome fields.
Elk Hills
Elk Hills is one of the largest fields in the continental United States based on proved reserves and has produced over 1.6 BBoe. During the year ended December 31, 2014, we produced 64 MBoe/d on average from our Elk Hills properties, or approximately 40% of our total average daily production. Of our total Elk Hills production, more than 60% is liquids. At Elk Hills, we operate efficient natural gas processing facilities with a combined capacity of over 540 MMcf/d. Additionally, we generate sufficient electricity to operate the field and sell excess power to the grid. Our operations at Elk Hills possess a state-of-the-art central control facility and remote automation control on over 95% of our wells.
Los Angeles Basin
We actively operate and are developing 10 fields in this urban, coastal basin which consists of conventional primary, IOR, EOR and unconventional project types, approximately half of which we hold in fee. Approximately 22% of our estimated proved reserves as of December 31, 2014 and 18% of our average daily net production for the year ended December 31, 2014 were located in the Los Angeles basin.
The basin is a northwest-trending plain about 50 miles long and 20 miles wide containing prolific Miocene through Pleistocene sediments. Most of the significant discoveries in the Los Angeles basin date back to the 1920s. The Los Angeles basin has one of the highest concentrations per acre of crude oil in the world with 68 fields named in an area of about 450 square miles. The basin contains multiple stacked formations throughout its depths, and we believe that the Los Angeles basin provides a considerable inventory of existing field re-development opportunities as well as new play discovery potential. Large active oil fields include the Huntington and the Wilmington fields, where we have significant operations as described further below.
Wilmington Oil Field
The Wilmington field located in Long Beach, is the third largest field in the United States and has produced over 2.9 BBoe. During the year ended December 31, 2014, we produced approximately 36,000 Boe/d gross on average, or 91% of the Wilmington field daily production from all producers for the year, where we operate on behalf of the State of California and the City of Long Beach. Our net production in this field equates to approximately 16% of our total average daily production. Most of our Wilmington production is covered under a set of contracts similar to production-sharing contracts under which we recover capital and operating costs and our share of profits from production. The field is developed by applying waterflood methods of oil recovery. Our waterflood operations have attractive margins and returns in the current price environment and extend the productive life of our reservoirs beyond the economic life expected for primary development.
Ventura Basin
We actively operate and are developing 29 fields in this central California coastal basin which consists of primary conventional, IOR, EOR and unconventional project types. We currently hold approximately 0.3 million net acres in the Ventura basin, approximately 72% of which we hold in fee. Approximately 8% of our estimated proved reserves as of December 31, 2014 and approximately 6% of our average daily net production for the year ended December 31, 2014 were located in the Ventura basin.
The Ventura basin contains a Cretaceous-age to Pleistocene-age, mostly marine, sedimentary section in a major fold and thrust belt that began developing during the late Pliocene. The Ventura basin is the onshore part of the main structural feature and its offshore extension is the modern Santa Barbara basin. All of the sedimentary section is productive at various locations, and most reservoirs are sandstones with favorable porosity and permeability. In general, most traps are anticlinal, modified to some degree by faults and with significant stratigraphic trapping. The basin contains multiple stacked formations throughout its depths, and we believe that the Ventura basin provides an appealing inventory of existing field re-development opportunities, as well as new play exploration potential.
In 2013, we completed the acquisition of, and are currently processing, the first ever 3D seismic survey in the Ventura basin. We believe this 3D seismic data gives us a competitive advantage in exploring this basin.
Sacramento Basin
We actively operate and are developing 53 fields in this inland basin in the northern part of California's central valley, primarily consisting of dry gas production. We currently hold approximately 0.5 million net acres in the Sacramento basin, approximately 35% of which we hold in fee. We believe our significant acreage position in the Sacramento basin gives us the option for future development and rapid production growth in an attractive natural gas price environment. Approximately 2% of our estimated proved reserves as of December 31, 2014 and approximately 6% of our average daily net production for the year ended December 31, 2014 were located in the Sacramento basin.
The Sacramento basin is a deep, elongated northwest-trending basin covering about 12,000 square miles. It contains a thick sequence of sedimentary deposits that range in age from the lower Cretaceous to Neogene. Exploration in the basin started in 1918.
Conventional Reservoir Recovery Methods
We determine which development method to use based on reservoir characteristics, reserves potential and expected returns. We seek to optimize the potential of our conventional assets by progressively using primary recovery methods, which may include some well stimulation techniques, EOR methods like steamflooding and IOR methods such as waterflooding, using both vertical and horizontal drilling. All of these techniques are proven technologies we have used extensively in California.
Primary Recovery
Primary recovery methods are the first techniques we use to develop a reservoir. These methods consist of drilling and producing wells without supplementing the natural energy of the reservoir. Our successful exploration program continues to provide us with primary recovery opportunities in new reservoirs or through extensions of existing fields. Our conventional development programs create future opportunities to convert these reservoirs to steamfloods or waterfloods after their primary production phase.
Steamfloods
Some of our fields contain heavy, thick oil. Steamfloods work by injecting steam into the reservoir to heat the oil, decreasing its viscosity, or thinning the oil, allowing it to flow more easily to the producing wellbores. Steamflooding is a well understood process that has been used in California since the early 1960s. This process has been known to increase recovery factors from approximately 10% under primary recovery methods to up to approximately 75%. Thermal operations are most effective in shallow reservoirs containing heavy, viscous oil. The steamflood process is generally characterized by low capital investment with attractive margins and returns even in the current price environment. The economics of steamflooding are largely a function of the ratio between oil and natural gas prices. After drilling, these operations typically ramp up production over one to two years as the steam continues to influence the oil production, and then exhibit a plateau for several months, with a subsequent low, predictable oil production decline rate of 5 to 10% per year. This gradual decline allows us to extend the productive life of a reservoir and significantly increase our incremental recovery after primary depletion. We use steamfloods extensively in the San Joaquin basin, where they have allowed us to grow our production from mature fields such as Kern Front and Lost Hills, among others.
Waterfloods
Some of our fields have been partially produced and no longer have sufficient energy to drive oil to our producing wellbores. Waterflooding is a well understood process that has been used in California for over 50 years to re-introduce energy to the reservoir through water injection and to sweep oil to producing wellbores. This process has been known to increase recovery factors by approximately double those experienced under primary recovery methods. Our waterflood operations have attractive margins and returns in the current price environment. These operations typically have low and predictable production declines and allow us to extend the productive life of a reservoir and significantly increase our incremental recovery after primary depletion. We use waterfloods extensively in the San Joaquin, Los Angeles and Ventura basins where they have allowed us to reduce production decline or modestly grow our production from mature fields such as Elk Hills and Wilmington.
Unconventional Reservoir Potential
We believe our undeveloped unconventional acreage has the potential to provide significant long-term production growth. In total, we hold mineral interests in approximately 1.3 million net acres with unconventional potential and have identified over 4,900 gross (4,400 net) unconventional drilling locations on this acreage. As a result of focusing more on these reservoirs over the past few years, approximately 36% of our 2014 production was from unconventional reservoirs, an increase of approximately 150% since the acquisition of our Elk Hills field properties in 1998. As of December 31, 2014, we had proved reserves of 216 MMBoe associated with our unconventional properties, with approximately 24% proved undeveloped.
We hold significant interests in the Monterey formation, which is divided into upper and lower intervals. We have successfully produced from seven discrete stacked pay horizons within the Upper Monterey. The Lower Monterey is believed to be the principal source rock within the Monterey.
We plan to apply the knowledge acquired from our successes in the upper Monterey to other shales in the San Joaquin basin such as the Kreyenhagen and Moreno formations. The Kreyenhagen and Moreno formations are hydrocarbon source rocks that have generated oil and gas, and we believe they offer similar development opportunities to the upper Monterey due to their multiple stacked pay reservoirs and general reservoir characteristics. The lower Monterey has an extremely limited production history compared to the upper Monterey, and therefore very limited knowledge exists regarding its potential. For example, only about 25 wells have been drilled into the lower Monterey to date. However, we believe we will be able to apply knowledge we gain from the upper Monterey in the lower Monterey as well.
Exploration Program
We intend to continue our active exploration program in both conventional and unconventional plays where discoveries can quickly be developed into producing fields. We believe our experienced technical staff, leading acreage position and extensive 3D seismic library give us a strong competitive advantage. Our interpretation of this seismic data, covering a large portion of our prospective acreage, and our extensive knowledge of California geology and producing fields, has resulted in a large inventory of exploratory projects. As of December 31, 2014, our drilling inventory included 7,200 gross (5,100 net) exploration drilling locations in proven formations, the majority of which are
located near existing producing fields. Additionally, we have identified 6,400 gross (5,300 net) prospective resource drilling locations in the lower Monterey, Kreyenhagen and Moreno resource plays.
In 2014, we continued our successful near-field and impact exploration programs in conventional and unconventional reservoirs. Our exploration program delivered a geologic success rate of approximately 80% with approximately half of those successful wells determined to be commercial in the current price environment. Notable successes include our conventional reservoir drilling results in proven play trends offsetting the Pleito Ranch field in the San Joaquin basin and the Bardsdale field in the Ventura basin.
In the San Emigdio trend, two exploration wells successfully extended the Pleito Ranch field. Both wells encountered the primary producing reservoir of the Pleito Ranch field at similar reservoir depths and pressures. Additional step-out exploration prospects have been identified that can further extend this trend.
In the Ventura basin, one exploration well encountered two hydrocarbon bearing reservoir intervals and successfully extended the depth of the known producing reservoirs. We have multiple, analogous prospects in this play trend that extends for approximately 30 miles onshore in the southern Ventura basin.
We continue to develop our understanding and knowledge of the significant prospective resources in the exploration shale reservoirs. In 2014, we completed significant log, core and seismic data acquisition projects targeting the Kreyenhagen exploration shale reservoir around the Kettleman North Dome and Middle Dome fields. We completed seven workovers in existing wellbores and drilled six new wells. In many cases, zonal completions were implemented to assess the expected performance of individual zones of interest and identify landing zones for future horizontal development.
In 2015, we expect to invest approximately three percent of our capital budget, or approximately $15 million, on exploration projects with a continued focus on prospects that can generate near-term returns. We expect exploration capital in the future to be focused in the San Joaquin, Ventura and Sacramento basins, and weighted toward projects where we have a proven track record of success.
Our Reserves and Production Information
Reserve Data
The information with respect to our estimated reserves presented below has been prepared in accordance with the rules and regulations of the SEC.
Reserves Presentation
Proved oil, NGLs and natural gas reserves were estimated using the unweighted arithmetic average of the first-day-of-the-month price for each month within the year, unless prices were defined by contractual arrangements. Oil, NGLs and natural gas prices used for this purpose were based on posted benchmark prices and adjusted for price differentials including gravity, quality and transportation costs. For the 2014 disclosures, the calculated average Brent oil price was $101.30 per Bbl. The calculated average NYMEX gas price for 2014 disclosures was $4.42 per Mcf. The realized prices used for the 2014 disclosures were $95.20 per Bbl for oil, $49.94 per Bbl for NGLs and $4.73 per Mcf for natural gas.
During the second half of 2014 oil prices experienced a steep decline, which has continued into 2015. If prices remain at or near current levels for the rest of 2015, or if they decline further, the prices used to determine our year-end 2015 reserves will be significantly lower than those used for year-end 2014, as mandated by SEC regulations. Under such circumstances, we may experience significant negative price-related revisions to our proved reserves at year-end 2015. For example, under a much lower price scenario used for reserves reporting purposes, a significant portion of our proved undeveloped reserves may no longer meet the economic producibility criteria under the rules. Similarly, while we have significant control over variable costs, certain costs in our long-lived fields, such as Elk Hills, are fixed, having the effect of increasing costs on a per barrel basis in later years as production declines, rendering them uneconomic in a lower price environment. We would expect that our production-sharing type contracts would partially offset these negative revisions. Further, we believe that a prolonged period of low oil prices would result in lower operating costs, which would tend to mitigate price related negative revisions to some extent by improving the economics of proved undeveloped reserves as well as extending the economic lives of long-lived fields.
The following tables summarize our estimated proved reserves and related PV-10 and Standardized Measure at December 31, 2014. Reserves are stated net of applicable royalties. Estimated reserves include our economic interests under arrangements similar to production-sharing contracts relating to the Wilmington field in Long Beach.
(1)
Approximately 11% of proved developed oil reserves, 5% of proved developed NGLs reserves, 9% of proved developed natural gas reserves and 10% of total proved developed reserves are non-producing.
(2)
Natural gas volumes have been converted to Boe based on the equivalence of energy content between six Mcf of gas and one Bbl of oil. Barrels of oil equivalence does not necessarily result in price equivalence. The price of natural gas on a barrel of oil equivalent basis is currently substantially lower than the corresponding price for oil and has been similarly lower for a number of years. For example, in 2014, the average prices of Brent oil and NYMEX natural gas were $99.51 per Bbl and $4.34 per Mcf, respectively, resulting in an oil-to-gas price ratio of approximately 23 to 1.
PV-10 and Standardized Measure
(1)
PV-10 is a non-GAAP financial measure and represents the year-end present value of estimated future cash inflows from proved oil and natural gas reserves, less future development and production costs, discounted at 10% per annum to reflect the timing of future cash flows and using SEC prescribed pricing assumptions for the period. PV-10 differs from Standardized Measure because Standardized Measure includes the effects of future income taxes on future net cash flows. Neither PV-10 nor Standardized Measure should be construed as the fair value of our oil and natural gas reserves. PV-10 and Standardized Measure are used by the industry and by our management as an asset value measure to compare against our past reserve bases and the reserve bases of other business entities because the pricing, cost environment and discount assumptions are prescribed by the SEC and are comparable. PV-10 further facilitates the comparisons to other companies as it is not dependent on the tax paying status of the entity.
The following table provides a reconciliation of our Standardized Measure to PV-10:
Proved Reserve Additions
Our total proved reserve additions from all sources were 82 MMBoe in 2014. Of these reserve additions, 118 MMboe were the result of our capital program and 6 MMBoe as a result of property acquisitions. These additions were partially offset by 42 MMBoe of negative revisions. The total additions to our proved reserves during the year ended December 31, 2014 were as follows:
(1)
Of these, (1) MMBoe were price-related.
Our ability to add reserves, other than through purchases, depends on the success of improved recovery, extension and discovery projects, each of which depends on reservoir characteristics, technology improvements and oil and natural gas prices, as well as capital and operating costs. Many of these factors are outside management's control, and will affect whether the historical sources of proved reserve additions continue to provide reserves at similar levels.
Improved Recovery
In 2014, we added proved reserves of 117 MMBoe from improved recovery through proven IOR and EOR methods, as well as unconventional primary mechanisms. The improved recovery additions in 2014 were mainly associated with the continued development of properties in the San Joaquin and Los Angeles basins. These properties comprise both conventional and unconventional projects. The types of conventional IOR and EOR development methods we use can be applied through existing wells, though additional drilling is frequently required to fully optimize the development configuration. Many of our projects, including unconventional projects, rely on improving permeability to increase flow in the wells. In addition, some improved recovery comes from drilling infill wells that allow recovery of reserves that would not be recoverable from existing wells.
Extensions and Discoveries
We also added 1 MMBoe of proved reserves from extensions and discoveries, which generally result from exploration and exploitation programs.
Revisions of Previous Estimates
Revisions can include upward or downward changes to previous proved reserve estimates due to the evaluation or interpretation of geologic, production decline or operating performance data. In addition, product price changes affect proved reserves we record. For example, higher prices may increase the economically recoverable reserves, because the extra margin extends the expected life of the operations. Offsetting this effect, higher prices slightly decrease our share of proved reserves under arrangements similar to production-sharing contracts at our Long Beach operations because less oil is required to recover costs. Conversely, when prices drop, our share of proved reserves slightly increases for such arrangements similar to production-sharing contracts and economically recoverable reserves may drop for other operations. The negative revisions of 42 million Boe were mainly the result of performance related adjustments to several legacy projects concentrated in the San Joaquin basin, primarily in Elk Hills.
Proved Undeveloped Reserves
In 2014, we had proved undeveloped reserve additions of 89 MMBoe from improved recovery, primarily in the San Joaquin and Los Angeles basins, partially offset by 24 MMBoe of negative revisions. We also transferred 81 MMBoe of proved undeveloped reserves to the proved developed category as a result of the 2014 development programs, of which 98% were in the San Joaquin and Los Angeles basins. We invested approximately $1.2 billion in 2014 to convert proved undeveloped reserves to proved developed reserves. The total changes to our proved undeveloped reserves during the year ended December 31, 2014 were as follows:
Reserves Evaluation and Review Process
Our estimates of proved reserves and associated future net cash flows as of December 31, 2014 were made by our technical personnel with the assistance of operational and financial personnel and are the responsibility of management. The estimation of proved reserves is based on the requirement of reasonable certainty of economic producibility and management's funding commitments to develop the reserves. This process involves reservoir engineers, geoscientists, planning engineers and financial analysts. As part of the proved reserves estimation process, all reserve volumes are estimated by a forecast of production rates, operating costs and capital investments. Price differentials between specified benchmark prices and realized prices and specifics of each operating agreement are then used to estimate the net reserves. Production rate forecasts are derived by a number of methods, including estimates from decline-curve analysis, type-curve analysis, material balance calculations that take into account the volumes of substances replacing the volumes produced and associated reservoir pressure changes, seismic analysis and computer simulation of the reservoir performance. These field-tested technologies have demonstrated reasonably certain results with consistency and repeatability in the formations being evaluated or in analogous formations. Operating and capital costs are forecast using the current cost environment applied to expectations of future operating and development activities related to the proved reserves.
Net proved developed reserves are those volumes that are expected to be recovered through existing wells with existing equipment and operating methods, for which the incremental cost of any additional required investment is relatively minor. Net proved undeveloped reserves are those volumes that are expected to be recovered from new wells on undrilled acreage, or from existing wells where a relatively major expenditure is required for recompletion.
Our Vice President, Reserves and Corporate Development assumed primary responsibility for overseeing the preparation of our reserve estimates in connection with the Spin-off. She has over 14 years of experience as an energy sector engineer including as a Senior Reservoir Engineer with Ryder Scott. She is a member of the Society of Petroleum Engineers, for which she served as past chair of the U.S. Registration Committee. She holds a Master of Engineering in Petroleum Engineering from the University of Houston and a Bachelor of Science from the University of Florida and is a registered engineer in the State of Texas.
We have an Oil and Gas Reserves Review Committee ("Reserves Committee"), consisting of senior corporate officers, which reviewed and approved our oil and natural gas reserves for 2014. The Reserves Committee reports to the Audit Committee during the year. Ryder Scott was retained to separately review the oil and natural gas reserves estimation processes used in 2014 for our properties and to provide the opinion noted below.
Ryder Scott conducted a process review of the methods and analytical procedures used by our engineering and geological staff to estimate the proved reserves volumes, prepare the economic evaluations and determine reserves classifications as of December 31, 2014. Ryder Scott reviewed the specific application of such methods and procedures for selected oil and gas properties considered to be a valid representation of our 2014 year-end total proved reserves portfolio. In 2014, Ryder Scott reviewed approximately 32% of our proved oil and natural gas reserves. Since being engaged by our former parent in 2003, Ryder Scott has reviewed the specific application of reserve estimation methods and procedures for approximately 88% of our proved oil and natural gas reserves that existed at December 31, 2014. Ryder Scott was retained to provide objective third-party input on the methods and procedures used to estimate our oil and natural gas reserves for 2014 and to gather industry information applicable to the reserve estimation and reporting process for those reserves. Ryder Scott was not engaged to render an opinion as to the reasonableness of our reserves quantities. We filed Ryder Scott's independent report as an exhibit to this Form 10-K.
Based on its reviews, including the data, technical processes and interpretations presented with respect to our oil and natural gas reserves, Ryder Scott concluded that the overall procedures and methodologies utilized in estimating the proved reserves volumes, documenting the changes in reserves from prior estimates, preparing the economic evaluations and determining the reserves classifications for the reviewed properties are appropriate for the purpose thereof and comply with current SEC regulations.
Because the separation of CRC from Occidental occurred in late 2014, we used Occidental's established reserves review process described above to estimate our 2014 proved reserves. Following the 2014 reserve estimation, we intend to rely more heavily on independent reserves estimation companies, such as Ryder Scott, to estimate our proved reserves volumes.
Determination of Identified Drilling Locations
Proven Drilling Locations
Based on our reserves report as of December 31, 2014, we have approximately 2,400 gross (2,300 net) drilling locations attributable to our proved undeveloped reserves. We use production data and experience gained from our development programs to identify and prioritize this proven drilling inventory. These drilling locations are included in our inventory only after they have been evaluated technically and are deemed to have a high likelihood of being drilled within a five-year time frame. As a result of rigorous technical evaluation of geologic and engineering data, it can be estimated with reasonable certainty that reserves from these locations will be commercially recoverable in accordance with SEC guidelines. Management considers the availability of local infrastructure, drilling support assets, state and local regulations and other factors it deems relevant in determining such locations.
Unproven Drilling Locations
We have also identified a multi-year inventory of 10,200 gross (9,800 net) drilling locations that are not associated with proved undeveloped reserves but are specifically identified on a field-by-field basis considering the applicable geologic, engineering and production data. We analyze past field development practices and identify analogous drilling opportunities taking into consideration historical production performance, estimated drilling and completion costs, spacing and other performance factors. These drilling locations primarily include (i) infill drilling locations, (ii) additional locations due to field extensions or (iii) potential IOR and EOR project expansions, some of which are currently in the pilot phase across our properties, but have yet to be moved to the proven category. We believe the assumptions and data used to estimate these drilling locations are consistent with established industry practices with well spacing selected based on the type of recovery process we are using.
Exploration Drilling Locations
Our portfolio of prospective drilling locations contains approximately 7,200 gross (5,100 net) unrisked exploration drilling locations in proven formations, the majority of which are located near existing producing fields. We use internally generated information and proprietary models consisting of data from analog plays, 3D seismic data, open hole and mud log data, cores, and reservoir engineering data to help define the extent of the targeted intervals and the potential ability of such intervals to produce commercial quantities of hydrocarbons. Information used to identify exploration locations includes both our own proprietary data, as well as industry data available in the public domain. After defining the reservoir target area, we identified our exploration drilling locations within the applicable intervals by applying the well spacing we have historically utilized for the applicable type of recovery process used.
Prospective Resource Drilling Locations
In addition, we have approximately 6,400 gross (5,300 net) unrisked prospective resource drilling locations identified in the lower Monterey, Kreyenhagen and Moreno resource plays based on screening criteria that contain geologic and economic considerations and very limited production information. Prospective play areas are defined by geologic data consisting of well cuttings, hydrocarbon shows, open-hole well logs, geochemical data, available 3D or 2D seismic data and formation pressure data, where available. Information used to identify our prospective locations includes both our own proprietary data, as well as industry data available in the public domain. Prospective resource drilling locations were based on an assumption of 80-acre spacing per well throughout the prospective area for each resource play.
Well Spacing Determination
Our well spacing determinations in the above categories of identified well locations are based on actual operational spacing within our existing producing fields, which we believe are reasonable for the particular recovery process employed (i.e., primary, waterflood or EOR). Due to the significant vertical thickness and multiple stacked reservoirs usually encountered by our drilling wells, typical well spacing is generally less than 20 acres and often 10 acres or less in the majority of our fields unless specified differently above. These parameters also meet the general well spacing restrictions imposed on certain oil and gas fields in California.
Drilling Schedule
Our identified drilling locations have been scheduled as part of our current multi-year drilling schedule or are expected to be scheduled in the future. However, we may not drill our identified sites at the times scheduled or at all. We view the risk profile for our exploration drilling locations and our prospective resource drilling locations as
being higher than for our other drilling locations due to relatively less available geologic and production data and drilling history, in particular with respect to our prospective resource locations, which are in unproven geologic plays. We make assumptions about the consistency and accuracy of data when we identify these locations that may prove inaccurate.
Our ability to profitably drill and develop our identified drilling locations depends on a number of variables, including crude oil and natural gas prices, the availability of capital, costs, drilling results, regulatory approvals, available transportation capacity and other factors. If future drilling results in these projects do not establish sufficient reserves to achieve an economic return, we may curtail drilling or development of these projects. For a discussion of the risks associated with our drilling program, see "Risk Factors-Risks Related to Our Business."
The table below sets forth our total gross identified drilling locations as of December 31, 2014, excluding our prospective drilling locations from new resource plays.
Production, Price and Cost History
Oil, NGLs and natural gas are commodities; therefore, the price that we receive for our production is largely a function of market supply and demand. Product prices are affected by a variety of factors, including changes in consumption patterns, global and local (particularly for natural gas) economic conditions, the actions of OPEC and other oil and natural gas producing countries, inventory levels, actual or threatened production disruptions, currency exchange rates, worldwide drilling and exploration activities, the effects of conservation, weather, geophysical and technical limitations, refining and processing disruptions, transportation bottlenecks and other matters affecting the supply and demand dynamics of oil, natural gas and NGLs, and the effect of changes in market perceptions. We have only occasionally hedged commodity price risk. However, given the recent steep decline in oil prices, we recently started a hedging program to protect our down-side price risk and preserve our ability to execute our capital program in 2015.
The following table sets forth information regarding production, realized and benchmark prices, and production costs for oil and gas producing activities for the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012. For additional information on price calculations, see information set forth in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations."
(a)
For 2014, the amount excludes unusual and infrequent costs of $0.10 per Boe related to Spin-off and transition related costs.
(b)
For 2014, the amount excludes unusual and infrequent costs related to rig termination charges and Spin-off and transition related costs of $0.97 per Boe. For 2012, the amount excludes rig termination charges of $0.22 per Boe.
The following table sets forth information regarding production, realized prices and production costs for our largest two fields, Elk Hills and Wilmington, for the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012.
Note: Natural gas volumes have been converted to Boe based on the equivalence of energy content between six Mcf of natural gas to one Bbl of oil. Barrels of oil equivalence does not necessarily result in price equivalence. The price of natural gas on a barrel of oil equivalent basis is currently substantially lower than the corresponding price for oil and has been similarly lower for a number of years. For example, in 2014, the average prices of Brent oil and NYMEX natural gas were $99.51 per Bbl and $4.34 per Mcf, respectively, resulting in an oil-to-gas price ratio of approximately 23 to 1.
The following table sets forth our reserves and production by basin and recovery mechanism.
(a)
Includes reserves and production from gas injection of 9% and 5%, respectively.
Productive Wells
As of December 31, 2014, we had a total of 9,331 gross (8,384 net) producing wells, approximately 90% of which were oil wells. Our average working interest in our producing wells is approximately 90%. Many of our oil wells produce associated natural gas and some of our natural gas wells also produce condensate and NGLs.
The following table sets forth our productive oil and natural gas wells (both producing and capable of production) as of December 31, 2014.
(a)
Numbers in parentheses indicate the number of wells with multiple completions.
(b)
The total number of wells in which interests are owned.
(c)
The sum of fractional interests.
Acreage
The following table sets forth certain information regarding the total developed and undeveloped acreage in which we owned an interest as of December 31, 2014, of which approximately 60% is held in fee. Of the 40% which is leased, approximately 35% was held by production at December 31, 2014.
(1)
Acres spaced or assigned to productive wells.
(2)
Total acres in which we hold an interest.
(3)
Sum of fractional interests owned based on working interests or interests under arrangements similar to production-sharing contracts.
(4)
Acres on which wells have not been drilled or completed to a point that would permit the production of commercial quantities of oil and natural gas, regardless of whether the acreage contains proved reserves.
Work programs are designed to ensure that the exploration potential of any leased property is fully evaluated before expiration. In some instances, we may relinquish leased acreage in advance of the contractual expiration date if the evaluation process is complete and there is not a business basis for extension. In cases where additional time may be required to fully evaluate acreage, we have generally been successful in obtaining extensions. The combined net acreage covered by leases expiring in the next three years represents 23% of our total net undeveloped acreage at December 31, 2014 and these expirations would not have a material adverse impact on us. Historically, we have not dedicated any significant portion of our capital to prevent lease expirations and do not expect we will need to do so in the future.
Participation in Exploratory and Development Wells Being Drilled
The following table sets forth our participation in exploratory and development wells being drilled as of December 31, 2014.
At December 31, 2014, we were participating in eight steamflood and 40 waterflood projects. All of the significant steamflood projects were located in the San Joaquin basin. Twenty-five waterflood projects were located in the Los Angeles basin and 15 in the San Joaquin basin.
Drilling Activity
The following table describes our drilling activity for the periods indicated. The information should not be considered indicative of future performance, nor should it be assumed that there is necessarily any correlation among the number of productive wells drilled, quantities of reserves found or economic value. Productive wells are those that produce, or are capable of producing, commercial quantities of hydrocarbons, regardless of whether they produce a reasonable rate of return. Net wells represent the sum of fractional interests in wells in which we own an interest.
Delivery Commitments
We have made commitments to certain refineries and other buyers to deliver oil, natural gas and NGLs. As of December 31, 2014, the total amount contracted to be delivered is approximately 34 MBbls/d of oil under 60-day contracts, 2 Bcf of natural gas under 90-day contracts, and 1 MMBbls of NGLs through March 2015. These are index-based contracts with prices set at the time of delivery at benchmark prices. We have significantly more production capacity than the amounts committed and have the ability to secure additional volumes in case of a shortfall. None of the commitments in any given year is expected to have a material impact on our financial statements.
Our Infrastructure
We own infrastructure that is integral to and significantly complements our operations. Our Elk Hills cryogenic gas plant has a capacity of 200 MMcf/d of wellhead gas bringing our total Elk Hills processing capacity to over 540 MMcf/d. We also own and operate a system of natural gas processing facilities in the Ventura basin that are capable of processing equity wellhead gas from the surrounding areas. Our natural gas processing facilities are interconnected via pipelines to nearby third-party rail and trucking facilities, with access to certain North American NGLs markets. In addition, we have truck rack facilities coupled with a battery of pressurized storage tanks at our Elk Hills natural gas processing facility for NGL sales to third parties.
We generate all of our electricity needs at our Elk Hills operations, which run at about 130 megawatts, through our wholly-owned 550 megawatt combined-cycle power plant located adjacent to our Elk Hills processing facilities, and sell the excess. We also operate a 46 megawatt cogeneration facility at Elk Hills that provides resource diversity and additional reliability to support field operations. Within our Long Beach operations, we operate a 45 megawatt power generating facility that provides over 40% of the Long Beach operation’s electricity requirements, reducing operating costs. These power facilities are integrated with our operations to improve their reliability and performance.
We own an extensive network of over 20,000 miles of oil and gas gathering lines. These gathering lines are dedicated almost entirely to collect our oil and gas production and are in close proximity to field specific facilities such as tank settings or central processing sites. These lines provide a variety of services, including connecting our producing wells to gathering networks, natural gas collection and compression systems, lines for water treating and injection services, steam supply for our thermal properties, and water lines that deliver treated water for agriculture. Nearly all of our oil is then transported through third party pipelines with flexibility to ship to various parties. In addition, virtually all of our natural gas production interconnects with major third-party natural gas pipeline systems. As a result of these connections, we typically have the ability to access multiple delivery points to improve the prices we obtain for our oil and natural gas production.
ITEM 3