Item 2. Properties
Property Location and Description
Mitu Gold Claim project consists of one unpatented mineral claim, located in the department of Vaupes at UTM co-ordinates Latitude 1 degrees 11' 53" North and Longitude 70 degrees 10' 23" West. The mineral claim was assigned to Mitu Resources Inc. by Alvarez Explorations Inc. and said assignment was filed with the Bogota Regional office of the Ministry of Mining of the Republic of Colombia. We own 100% of this claim with no encumbrance. The area of the claim is 92.5 hectares.
There are no known environmental concerns or parks designated for any area contained within the claims. The property has no encumbrances. If advanced exploration proceeds, there may be bonding requirements for reclamation.
Except as described above, there are no material terms of the land or mineral rights securing agreements with respect to the MITU Gold Claim.
A mining license is necessary to mine the MITU Gold Claim. MITU obtained such a license, but it has expired. MITU plans to renew the license if and when it is ready to commence mining operations.
Maps of the MITU Gold claim are set forth below:
Royalty Obligations and Other Underlying Agreements
None.
Accessibility, Climate, Local Resources, Infrastructure, and Topography
The MITU Gold Claim is located close to the Brazilian border in southeastern Colombia, in the north western part of the Department of Vaupes. It covers areas of historic placer and small scale bedrock gold mining. It is approximately 40 km west of the capital Mitu and approximately 102 km northwest of the small town of Taraira. Flying time from Bogota to Mitu, capital of Vaupes Department, is 1.35 hours.
The main routes of transportation and communication with the provinces and the municipalities of Caruru and Taraira are by air. The Vaupes River is the main waterway in the Department of Vaupes and its municipalities. Larger sailing vessels can navigate the upper portions of the river for seven months a year. A section of 54 km of road between Mitu and Monforth is passable as well as a network of 788 km of unpaved roads link the communities to each other.
Mitu is described as an area of transition between the dry plains of Orinoco and the Amazon rainforest with temperatures ranging from 24°C to 38°C (75.2 to 100.4 farenheit). There are dry and wet seasons with rainfalls ranging from 254 cm to 635 cm per year. Exploration work can be carried out unhampered throughout the year, although production may be slower during the months of April, May, and October when peak rains occur.
There is a heavy reliance on government expenditure in the form of government salaries and government subsidies to improve living conditions in the area. Other economic activities in the area consist of the collection of wild rubber and subsistence farming with the cultivation of yucca, pupuna, peppers, pineapple, sugar cane and onions. Mineral resources such as gold and ilmenite can be found as well as small percentage content of coltan tantalite.
Over 98% of the municipality is covered in tropical forests, which are part of the Forest Reserve of the Amazon so their uses are conditional. The main food crops are cassava, maize, coca, banana, sweet potato and yam cane. Various fruits are also grown in the region such as pineapple, papaya, watermelon, cocoa as well as numerous local wild fruits.
In Mitu, there is an airport named Alberto Leon Bentley which has been in operation since September 2002 with a runway length of 1850 meters long and 30 wide. The airport terminal, approximately 1620 meters square in size, handles all cargo (food, fuel, and other materials) to be distributed to interior areas in the Department of Vaupes. Freight companies operate regularly and air taxi carriers provide transport service between Mitu, the other municipalities of the department and rural indigenous communities.
A series of unpaved roads connects the town of Mitu to other communities in the interior of the department accessible by jeep. A 54 km of passable roadway links Mitu to the town of Monforth. There are numerous trails present and many of the local residents use canoes and waterways to travel between communities in the Amazon Basin
History
Numerous showings of mineralization have been discovered in the area and six prospects have achieved significant production, with the nearby Lopez Gold Claim (25 kilometers away) producing 134,000 ounces of gold annually. Gold is reported to have also been discovered in Taraira, a municipal in the Department of Vaupes approximately 95 km southeast of Mitu, where several mining explorations are currently being conducted.
Geological setting
Regional Geology of the Area
The project lies within the northwestern edge of the Neblina successor foreland basin, a large Meso- to Paleo-Proterozoic basin, which overlaps the Paleo-Proterozoic Roraima foreland basin and encompasses a large area of Brazil, as well as areas of Venezuela, Guyana and Colombia.
Deposits within these basins were derived from the Trans-Amazonian mountain range and are dominantly mature deltaic and shallow-marine sandstones such as quartz arenite and arkosic sandstones. Sedimentary strata underlying the project area and gold mineralization are belong to a group of Roraima-like have been determined. Sedimentary outliers overlie Roraima Supergroup strata further west, for which zircon from tuffs within this Supergroup are from the Paleoproterozoic age. Basin deposits in the project area overlie the eastern Proterozoic Rio Negro Amazon craton formed mostly by collisional S- and I-type granitoids which were intruded into the basement. Roraima-like sequences including deposits were deformed during the Sunsas collision along the northwestern and southwestern margins of the Amazon craton. These deposits remained buried until Late Jurassic, when they were uplifted during the Takutu rift event which preceded the drift phase of Africa and North America.
The metasedimentary sequence is comprised predominantly of quartzarenite strata with minor mudstone and siltstone intercalations and metaconglomerate beds. This sequence is the primary host to gold mineralization in the region. Meta-sedimentary strata throughout the region have been folded into a sequence of northerly-trending anticlines and synclines. Outcrop patterns suggest poly-phase folding.
The MITU Gold Claim is the located on a bedrock of native gold occurrences and numerous relatively small alluvial gold deposits. Mineralization was discovered in the area in the early 1930s and since that time has been the site of multiple small-scale placer and hard-rock gold recovery operations by individual miners. These minor operations left no disturbance or contamination on the surface or in the groundwater, and so no remediation activities will be needed. Alluvial gold deposits appear to be widespread in the region and these types of deposits have been the main target of small-scale individual miners. Native gold is readily panned from the surrounding areas, generally in areas of minor excavations and mine workings and also from creeks. Grains of native gold up to 5mm in size have been observed in rock samples from the project.
In-situ primary gold mineralization in the district occurs along trending ridges of Precambrian sedimentary stratigraphy. Quartz arenite is the main lithological unit in this metasedimentary sequence and is also the primary host of gold. Minor native gold also occurs in metaconglomerate beds in the sedimentary sequence.
Primary gold mineralization identified to date in the district appears to be strongly controlled by stratigraphy, however, it is also associated with cross-cutting structures. Mineralization occurs as fine to coarse-grained native gold hosted by narrow cryptocrystalline quartz veins. Gold mineralization also occurs as possibly detrital grains along bedding planes and as very fine interstitial grains interpreted as paleoplacer mineralization.
Mineralization is most closely associated with silica alteration at all locations, occurring as minor zones of narrow quartz veining and/or as evidently more widely distributed zones of silicification in host strata. Native gold most commonly occurs in the absence of sulfides or other opaque minerals or in association with trace to minor amounts of pyrite and/or wolframite. The presence of organic matter within the sedimentary strata has also been suggested to be important to gold mineralization.
Historic reports and preliminary investigations suggest that the district has the potential to host paleoplacer or modified paleoplacer and/or epigenetic vein- and shear-related gold mineralization. A synsedimentary origin for gold mineralization in the district is consistent with apparent lithological and stratigraphic controls on mineralization and by the widespread distribution of gold mineralization in quartz arenite dominant strata. The tentative identification of rounded and irregular-shaped gold particles in quartz sandstone also supports a synsedimentary origin since these particles closely resemble paleoplacer "micronuggets", and do not appear to be related to veining. The apparent paucity of sulfides associated with gold mineralization and the absence of significant hydrothermal alteration could also be construed as supportive of a paleoplacer origin for stratabound mineralization.
The common occurrence of native gold in narrow quartz veins and along fractures, supports either an epigenetic or remobilized paleoplacer model. The close association between mineralization and silica, as silicification of quartz arenite strata and/or as narrow quartz veinlets and the apparent association between gold and elements such as bismuth and antimony may more readily conform with an epigenetic model.
Nevertheless, a possible Paleoproterozoic age for siliciclastic deposits and therefore also for inferred detrital gold mineralization do not preclude a paleoplacer origin for gold mineralization. It is hypothesized that where regional-scale tectonic processes favored their preservation, paleoplacer gold deposits, which is thought to have formed throughout earth's history, have survived. An increase in the distribution of orogenic gold deposits globally have provided a ready source of primary gold for redistribution in Late Paleoproterozoic placers.
Both epigenetic and syngenetic paleoplacer deposit types are being targeted in exploration programs with the possibility for paleoplacer or remobilized paleoplacer and structurally controlled and/or vein-hosted gold mineralization in the district, and considering the potential economic importance associated with these styles of mineralization.
Exploration
Records indicate that no detailed exploration has been completed on the property.
Drilling Summary
No drilling has occurred on the MITU Gold Claim. Since 2000, several properties east of Mitu Gold Claim have been drilled by junior mineral exploration companies.
Sampling Method, Sample Preparation, Data Verification
All the exploration will be conducted according to generally accepted exploration procedures with methods and preparation that are consistent with generally accepted exploration practices. No samples have been taken.
No other procedures of quality control will be employed and no opinion on their absence is expressed.
Report Recommendations
A two phased exploration program to further delineate the mineralized system currently recognized on MITU Gold Claim is recommended.
The program would consist of air photo interpretation of the structures, geological mapping, both regionally and detailed on the area of the main showings, geophysical survey using both magnetic and electromagnetic instrumentation in detail over the area of the showings and in a regional reconnaissance survey and geochemical soil sample surveying regionally to identify other areas on the claim that are mineralized and in detail on the known areas of mineralization. The effort of this exploration work is to define and enable interpretation of a follow-up diamond drill program, so that the known mineralization and the whole property can be thoroughly evaluated with the most up to date exploration techniques.
Budget
The proposed budget for the recommended work in COP 37,150,840 (USD$ 19,712) is as follows:
Phase I
Phase II
Glossary of Mining Terms
Amphibolite
a class of metamorphic rock composed mainly of amphibole with some quartz
Andesite
a class of fine-grained rock, of volcanic origin, containing mostly plagioclase and feldspar
Anorthosite
a phaneritic, intrusive igneous rock characterized by a predominance of plagioclase feldspar
Aplite
a fine-grained granitic rock composed mostly of quartz and feldspars
Aquifer
an underground layer of water-bearing porous stone, earth, or gravel
Argile
clay
Argillite
a rock derived either from siltstone, claystone or shale that has undergone a somewhat higher degree of induration than is present in those rocks.
Assaying
laboratory examination that determines the content or proportion of a specific metal contained within a sample
.
Auriferous
refers to gold (AU) or gold equivalents (AUEQ).
Basalt
a hard rock of varied mineral content; volcanic in origin, it makes up much of the Earth's crust
Bauxite
the principal ore of aluminium; a clay-like mineral, being a mixture of hydrated oxides and hydroxides.
Caldera
a large circular volcanic depression often originating due to collapse
Charnockites
any orthopyroxene-bearing granite, composed mainly of quartz, perthite or antiperthite and orthopyroxene (usually hypersthene), as an end-member of the charnockite series.
Chert
massive, dull-colored and opaque quartzite, hornstone, impure chalcedony or other flint-like mineral. By general usage in mineralogy and geology, a chert does not have a conchoidal fracture. In North American archeology the term chert occasionally is still used for various siliceous minerals (including flint) that have a conchoidal fracture; this leads to confusion between the terms flint and chert in some archeology texts.
Clay
a mineral substance made up of small crystals of silica and alumina, that is ductile when moist; the material of pre-fired ceramics; an earth material with ductile qualities
Clinopyroxene
any pyroxene that has a monoclinic crystal structure
Coal
a readily combustible black or brownish-black sedimentary rock normally occurring in rock strata in layers or veins called coal beds. The harder forms, such as anthracite coal, can be regarded as metamorphic rock because of later exposure to elevated temperature and pressure. Coal is composed primarily of carbon along with variable quantities of other elements, chiefly sulfur, hydrogen, oxygen and nitrogen.
Copper
a chemical element with the symbol Cu (Latin: cuprum) and atomic number 29. It is a ductile metal with very high thermal and electrical conductivity. Pure copper is rather soft and malleable, and a freshly- exposed surface has a pinkish or peachy color.
Cretaceous age
a geological period and system from 145 to 65 million years ago.
Crystalline
a solid material, whose constituent atoms, molecules, or ions are arranged in an orderly repeating pattern extending in all three spatial dimensions; ie. crystals.
Dolerite
A fine-grained basaltic rock
Dynamothermal
rock formed at variable temperatures
Extrusive
the mode of igneous volcanic rock formation in which hot magma from inside the Earth flows out (extrudes) onto the surface as lava or explodes violently into the atmosphere to fall back as pyroclastics or tuff. This is opposed to intrusive rock formation, in which magma does not reach the surface. The main effect of extrusion is that the magma can cool much more quickly in the open air or under seawater, and there is little time for the growth of crystals. Often, a residual portion of the matrix fails to crystallize at all, instead becoming an interstitial natural glass or obsidian.
Fault
a break in the continuity of a body of rock. It is accompanied by a movement on one side of the break or the other so that what were once parts of one continuous rock stratum or vein are now separated. The amount of displacement of the parts may range from a few inches to thousands of feet.
Feldspar
any of a large group of rock-forming minerals that, together, make up about 60% of the earth's outer crust. The feldspars are all aluminum silicates of the alkali metals sodium, potassium, calcium and barium. Feldspars are the principal constituents of igneous and plutonic rocks.
Flatmake
flat-dipping fractures
Fold
a curve or bend of a planar structure such as rock stata, bedding planes, foliation, or cleavage.
Foliation
A general term for a planar arrangement of textural or structural features in any type of rock; esp., the planar structure that results from flattening of the constituent grains of a metamorphic rock.
Formation
a distinct layer of sedimentary rock of similar composition.
Gabbro
a group of dark-colored, basic intrusive igneous rocks composed principally of basic plagioclase (commonly labradorite or bytownite) and clinopyroxene (augite), with or without olivine and orthopyroxene; also, any member of that group. It is the approximate intrusive equivalent of basalt. Apatite and magnetite or ilmenite are common accessory minerals.
Geochemistry
the study of the distribution and amounts of the chemical elements in minerals, ores, rocks, solids, water, and the atmosphere.
Geophysicist
one who studies the earth; in particular the physics of the solid earth, the earth’s magnetosphere, and the atmosphere.
Geotechnical
the study of ground stability
Gneiss
a foliated rock formed by regional metamorphism, in which bands or lens-shaped strata or bodies of rock of granular minerals alternate with bands or lens-shaped strata or bodies or rock in which minerals having flaky or elongate prismatic habits predominate
Gold
chemical element with the symbol Au (from Latin: aurum, "shining dawn") and an atomic number of 79. It has been a highly sought-after precious metal for coinage, jewelry, and other arts since the beginning of recorded history. The metal occurs as nuggets or grains in rocks, in veins and in alluvial deposits. Gold is dense, soft, shiny and the most malleable and ductile pure metal known. Pure gold has a bright yellow color and luster traditionally considered attractive, which it maintains without oxidizing in air or water. Gold is one of the coinage metals and has served as a symbol of wealth and a store of value throughout history. Gold standards have provided a basis for monetary policies. It also has been linked to a variety of symbolisms and ideologies.
Granite
highly felsic igneous plutonic rock, typically light in color; rough plutonic equivalent of rhyolite. Granite is actually quite rare in the U.S.; often the term is applied to any quartz-bearing plutonic rock.
Granodiorite
a group of coarse-grained plutonic rocks intermediate in composition between quartz diorite and quartz monzonite, and potassium feldspar, with biotite, hornblende, or more rarely, pyroxene, as the mafic component.
Granulite
fine to medium-grained metamorphic rocks that have experienced high temperatures of metamorphism, composed mainly of feldspars sometimes associated with quartz and anhydrous ferromagnesian minerals, with granoblastic texture and gneissose to massive structure. They are of particular interest to geologists because many granulites represent samples of the deep continental crust. Some granulites experienced decompression from deep in the Earth to shallower crustal levels at high temperature; others cooled while remaining at depth in the Earth.
Graphite
one of the allotropes of carbon. Unlike diamond (another carbon allotrope), graphite is an electrical conductor, a semimetal, and can be used, for instance, in the electrodes of an arc lamp. Graphite holds the distinction of being the most stable form of carbon under standard conditions.
Gypsum
a mineral consisting of the hydrated calcium sulphate. When calcined, it forms plaster of Paris.
Heavy mineral sands ore deposits a class of ore deposit which is an important source of zirconium, titanium, thorium, tungsten, rare earth elements, the industrial minerals diamond, sapphire, garnet, and occasionally precious metals or gemstones. Heavy mineral sands are placer deposits formed most usually in beach environments by concentration due to the specific gravity of the mineral grains. It is equally likely that some concentrations of heavy minerals (aside from the usual gold placers) exist within streambeds, but most are of a low grade and are relatively small.
Hydrothermal
creation of rock with fluid at high temperatures
Igneous
resulting from, or produced by, the action of great heat; with rocks, it could also mean formed from lava/magma; granite and basalt are igneous rocks
Intrusions
masses of igneous rock that, while molten, were forced into other rocks.
Iron
chemical element with the symbol Fe (Latin: ferrum) and atomic number 26. It is a metal in the first transition series. Like other group 8 elements, it exists in a wide range of oxidation states. Iron and iron alloys (steels) are by far the most common metals and the most common ferromagnetic materials in everyday use. Fresh iron surfaces appear lustrous silvery-gray, but oxidize in air. Iron is the most common element in the earth, albeit the fourth most common one in the earth's crust.
Khondalite
a granulite-facies metasedimentary rock.
Laterite
a red hard or gravel-like soil or subsoil formed in the tropics that has been leached of soluble minerals leaving insoluble iron and aluminium oxides and hydroxides; used to make bricks and roads.
Leptynite
a granulite.
Lignite
a low-grade, brownish-black coal
Limestone
An abundant rock of marine and fresh-water sediments; primarily composed of calcite (calcium carbonate); it occurs in a variety of forms, both crystalline and amorphous.
Marble
a non foliated metamorphic rock composed mostly of calcite, a crystalline form of calcium carbonate. It is formed from carbonate rocks, often limestone. It is extensively used for sculpture and as a building material.
Magnetite
a ferrimagnetic mineral with chemical formula Fe 3 O 4 , one of several iron oxides and a member of the spinel group.
Metamorphic
the mineralogical, chemical, and structural adjustment of solid rocks to physical and chemical conditions that have generally been imposed at depth below the surface zones of weathering and cementation, and that differ from the conditions under which the rocks in question originated.
Metasediment
a metamorphosed sedimentary rock
Mica
the name of a group of hydrous aluminosilicate minerals characterized by highly perfect cleavage, so that they readily separate into very thin leaves, more or less elastic.
Monzonite
an intermediate igneous intrusive rock composed of approximately equal amounts of sodic to intermediate plagioclase and orthoclase feldspars with minor amounts of hornblende, biotite and other minerals.
Ore
the natural occurring mineral from which a mineral or minerals of economic value can be extracted profitable or to satisfy social or political objectives.
Oxides
a chemical compound containing at least one oxygen atom as well as at least one other element. Most of the Earth's crust consists of oxides. Oxides result when elements are oxidized by oxygen in air.
Paragneisses
a gneiss from sedimentary rock
Peat
an accumulation of partially decayed vegetation matter. Peat forms in wetland bogs, moors, muskegs, pocosins, mires, and peat swamp forests. Peat is harvested as an important source of fuel in certain parts of the world.
Pegmatite
a very coarse-grained, intrusive igneous rock composed of interlocking grains usually larger than 2.5 cm in size; such rocks are referred to as pegmatitic. Most pegmatites are composed of quartz, feldspar and mica; in essence a granite. Rarer intermediate composition and mafic pegmatites containing amphibole, Ca- plagioclase feldspar, pyroxene and other minerals are known, found in recrystallised zones and apophyses associated with large layered intrusions.
Phosphatic nodules
black to brown, rounded mass, variable in size from a few millimeters to 30 or more centimeters. Usually consists of coprolites, corals, shells, and bones, more or less enveloped in crusts of collophane. Found in many horizons of marine origin. Also covering the ocean floors at many locations around the world.
Placers
an accumulation of valuable minerals formed by deposition of dense mineral phases in a trap site.
Precious metals
a rare, naturally occurring metallic chemical element of high economic value, which is not radioactive (excluding natural polonium, radium, actinium and protactinium). Chemically, the precious metals are less reactive than most elements, have high lustre, are softer or more ductile, and have higher melting points than other metals. Historically, precious metals were important as currency, but are now regarded mainly as investment and industrial commodities. Gold, silver, platinum, and palladium each have an ISO 4217 currency code.
Production
a “production stage” project is actively engaged in the process of extraction and beneficiation of mineral reserves to produce a marketable metal or mineral product.
Pyrite
a yellow iron sulphide mineral of little value and referred to as ‘fool’s gold’.
Pyrrhotite
a bronze-colored, magnetic iron sulphide mineral
Quartz
a common rock-forming mineral consisting of silicon and oxygen
Quartzite
a hard metamorphic rock which was originally sandstone. Sandstone is converted into quartzite through heating and pressure usually related to tectonic compression within orogenic belts. Pure quartzite is usually white to grey, though quartzites often occur in various shades of pink and red due to varying amounts of iron oxide. Other colors, such as yellow and orange, are due to other mineral impurities.
Reserve
the term “reserve” refers to that part of a mineral deposit which could be economically and legally extracted or produced at the time of the reserve determination. Reserves must be supported by a feasibility study done to bankable standards that demonstrates the economic extraction. (“Bankable standards” implies that the confidence attached to the costs and achievements developed in the study is sufficient for the project to be eligible for external debt financing.) A reserve includes adjustments to the in-situ tons and grade to include diluting materials and allowances for losses that might occur when the material is mined.
Schist
any crystalline rock having a foliated structure and hence admitting of ready division into slabs or slates.
Seismic
referring to earthquakes
Shear
a form of strain resulting from stresses that cause or tend to cause contiguous parts of a body of rock to slide relatively to each other in a direction parallel to their plane of contact.
Silica
the chemical compound silicon dioxide, also known as silica (from the Latin silex), is an oxide of silicon with a chemical formula of SiO 2 and has been known for its hardness since antiquity. Silica is most commonly found in nature as sand or quartz, as well as in the cell walls of diatoms. Silica is the most abundant mineral in the Earth's crust.
Stockwork
a complex system of structurally controlled or randomly oriented veins. Stockworks are common in many ore deposit types and especially notable in greisens. They are also referred to as stringer zones.
Stratum
one of several parallel horizontal layers of material arranged one on top of another. A layer of sedimentary rock having approximately the same composition throughout
Sulphides
an anion of sulfur in its lowest oxidation number of −2. Sulfide is also a slightly archaic term for thioethers, a common type of organosulfur compound that are well known for their bad odors.
Telluride
a compound of a metal with tellurium; metal salts of tellurane. Any organic compound of general formula R 2 Te (R not = H), the tellurium analogues of ethers. Another name for sylvanite.
Tonalite
an igneous, plutonic (intrusive) rock, of felsic composition, with phaneritic texture. Feldspar is present as plagioclase (typically oligoclase or andesine) with 10% or less alkali feldspar. Quartz is present as more than 20% of the rock. Amphiboles and pyroxenes are common accessory minerals.
UTM
the Universal Transverse Mercator (UTM) coordinate system is a grid-based method of specifying locations on the surface of the Earth that is a practical application of a 2-dimensional Cartesian coordinate system. It is used to identify locations on the earth, but differs from the traditional method of latitude and longitude in several respects. The UTM system is not a single map projection. The system instead employs a series of sixty zones, each of which is based on a specifically defined secant transverse Mercator projection.
Vein
a thin, sheet-like body of hydrothermal mineralization, principally quartz.
Wall Rock
the rock adjacent to a vein.
Wollastonite
a calcium inosilicate mineral (CaSiO 3 ) that may contain small amounts of iron, magnesium, and manganese substituting for calcium. It is usually white. It forms when impure limestone or dolostone is subjected to high temperature and pressure sometimes in the presence of silica-bearing fluids as in skarns or contact metamorphic rocks. Associated minerals include garnets, vesuvianite, diopside, tremolite, epidote, plagioclase feldspar, pyroxene and calcite. It is named after the English chemist and mineralogist William Hyde Wollaston (1766-1828).
Item 3.