ITEM 2
PROPERTIES
Our Operations
Our Areas of Operation
California is one of the most prolific oil and natural gas producing regions in the world and is the third largest oil producing state in the nation. According to DOGGR, cumulative California production from all four basins in which we operate is 35 billion barrels of oil equivalent (BBoe), including approximately 19 BBoe in the San Joaquin basin, 10 BBoe in Los Angeles basin, 4 BBoe in Ventura basin and 10 trillion cubic feet (Tcf) of natural gas in Sacramento basin. Additionally, Kern County has been one of the top two largest oil producing counties in the lower 48 states for a number of years. California imports more than 60% of its oil, mostly from foreign locations, and 90% of its natural gas. Because of limited crude transportation infrastructure from other parts of the country to California, the California market is generally isolated from the rest of the nation, which we believe have offered relatively favorable pricing compared to other U.S. regions for similar grades. Our operations include 137 fields with 9,067 gross active wellbores as of December 31, 2015. We believe we are the largest private oil and natural gas mineral acreage holder in California, with interests in approximately 2.4 million net acres. Approximately 60% of our total net mineral interest position is held in fee. A majority of our interests are in producing properties located in reservoirs characterized by what we believe to be long-lived production profiles with repeatable development opportunities.
In 2015, we drilled 283 net development wells, of which more than 80% were producers and the rest were injectors and disposal wells. Our 2015 development drilling capital was approximately $130 million. Our 2015 total oil and gas capital of $370 million also included investments in facilities and compression expansion, workovers and exploration. In 2015 we produced 58 MMBoe. Our capital program, along with positive performance-related revisions of 45 MMBoe, added 81 MMBoe of proved reserves in 2015 representing a 140% organic reserves replacement ratio. For further information on reserves replacement ratio, see "PV-10, Standardized Measure and Reserves Replacement Ratio" section below.
San Joaquin Basin
We actively operate and are developing 45 fields in this inland basin in the southern part of California's central valley, which consists of conventional primary, IOR, EOR and unconventional project types with approximately 1.6 million net acres, approximately 62% of which we hold in fee. Approximately 70% of our estimated proved reserves as of December 31, 2015 and 69% of our average daily net production for the year ended December 31, 2015 came from the San Joaquin basin.
According to DOGGR, approximately 74% of California’s daily oil production for 2014 was produced in the San Joaquin basin. Commercial petroleum development began in the basin in the 1800s. Rapid discovery of many of the largest oil accumulations followed during the next several decades, including the Elk Hills field. We have been redeveloping this field and building our expertise to use in other fields across the state. According to the U.S. Geological Survey as of 2012, the San Joaquin basin contained three of the 10 largest oil fields in the United States based on cumulative production and proved reserves. We have been successfully developing steamfloods in our Kern Front operations, which are located next to the giant Kern River field, and in the northwest portion of the Lost Hills field. Starting in the 1980s, reserves additions occurred in the Monterey formation on the west side of the basin and in our new conventional field discoveries. The basin contains multiple stacked formations throughout its areal extent, and we believe that the San Joaquin basin provides an appealing inventory of existing field re-development opportunities, as well as new play discovery and unconventional play potential. The complex stratigraphy and structure in the San Joaquin basin has allowed continuing discoveries of stratigraphic and structural traps. We believe our extensive 3D seismic library, which covers nearly 3,000 square miles in the San Joaquin basin, covering approximately 50% of our San Joaquin acreage, will give us a competitive advantage in further exploring this basin. In 2015, we acquired 250 square miles of high-quality 3D seismic data to aid our future exploration and development of the asset.
We have established a large ownership interest in several of the largest existing oil fields in the San Joaquin basin, including Elk Hills, our largest producing field, as well as the Buena Vista and Kettleman North Dome fields.
Elk Hills
Elk Hills is one of the largest fields in the continental United States based on proved reserves and has produced over 1.9 BBoe to date. During the year ended December 31, 2015, we produced 60 MBoe/d on average from our Elk Hills properties, or approximately 38% of our total average daily production. Of our total Elk Hills production, 65% is liquids. We also operate efficient natural gas processing facilities, including a state-of-the-art cryogenic gas plant, with a combined capacity of over 540 MMcf/d. Additionally, we generate sufficient electricity to operate the field and sell excess power to the grid and to others through contractual agreements. A portion of our excess power is subject to a five-year contract with a local utility, which includes a minimum capacity payment, thereby providing us with rates that are generally better than we could receive from sales to the grid. Our operations at Elk Hills possess a state-of-the-art central control facility and remote automation control on over 95% of our wells.
Los Angeles Basin
We actively operate and are developing 10 fields in this urban, coastal basin which consists of conventional primary, IOR, EOR and unconventional project types, approximately half of which we hold in fee. Approximately 20% of our estimated proved reserves as of December 31, 2015 and 21% of our average daily net production for the year ended December 31, 2015 were located in the Los Angeles basin.
The basin is a northwest-trending plain about 50 miles long and 20 miles wide. Most of the significant discoveries in the Los Angeles basin date back to the 1920s. The Los Angeles basin has one of the highest concentrations per acre of crude oil in the world with 68 fields in an area of about 0.3 million acres. The basin contains multiple stacked formations throughout its depths, and we believe that the Los Angeles basin provides a considerable inventory of existing field re-development opportunities as well as new play discovery potential. Large active oil fields include the Wilmington and Huntington Beach fields, where we have significant operations as described further below.
Wilmington Oil Field
The Wilmington field located in Long Beach is the third largest field in the United States and has produced over 2.9 BBoe to date. During the year ended December 31, 2015, we produced approximately 35 MBoe/d gross on average, or 90% of the Wilmington field's daily production from all producers for the year. We operate in this field on behalf of the State of California and the City of Long Beach. Our net production in 2015 of approximately 28 MBoe/d equated to approximately 18% of our total average daily production. Most of our Wilmington production is covered under a set of contracts similar to production-sharing contracts under which we recover the total capital and operating costs and receive our share of profits. The field is developed by applying waterflood methods of oil recovery. Our waterflood operations have attractive margins and returns in the current price environment and extend the productive life of our reservoirs beyond the economic life expected for primary development.
Ventura Basin
We actively operate and are developing 29 fields in this central California coastal basin which consists of primary conventional, IOR, EOR and unconventional project types. We currently hold approximately 0.3 million net acres in the Ventura basin, approximately 72% of which we hold in fee. Approximately 7% of our estimated proved reserves as of December 31, 2015 and approximately 6% of our average daily net production for the year ended December 31, 2015 were located in the Ventura basin.
The Ventura basin is the onshore part of a structural feature and its offshore extension is the modern Santa Barbara basin. All of the sedimentary section is productive at various locations, and most reservoirs are sandstones with favorable porosity and permeability. The basin contains multiple stacked formations throughout its depths, and we believe that the Ventura basin provides an appealing inventory of existing field re-development opportunities, as well as new play exploration potential.
Sacramento Basin
We actively operate and are developing 53 fields in this inland basin in the northern part of California's central valley, primarily consisting of dry gas production. We currently hold approximately 0.5 million net acres in the Sacramento basin, approximately 36% of which we hold in fee. We believe our significant acreage position in the Sacramento basin gives us the option for future development and rapid production growth in an attractive natural gas price environment. Approximately 2% of our estimated proved reserves as of December 31, 2015 and approximately 4% of our average daily net production for the year ended December 31, 2015 were located in the Sacramento basin.
The Sacramento basin is a deep, thick sequence of sedimentary deposits within an elongated northwest-trending basin covering about 7.7 million acres. Exploration in the basin started in 1918.
Conventional Reservoir Recovery Methods
We determine which development method to use based on reservoir characteristics, reserves potential and expected returns. We seek to optimize the potential of our conventional assets by progressively using primary recovery methods, which may include some well stimulation techniques, IOR methods like waterflooding and EOR methods such as steamflooding, using both vertical and horizontal drilling. All of these techniques are proven technologies we have used extensively in California.
Primary Recovery
Primary recovery is a reservoir drive mechanism that utilizes the natural energy of the reservoir and is the first technique we use to develop a reservoir. Primary recovery is achieved by drilling and producing wells without supplementing the natural energy of the reservoir. Our successful exploration program continues to provide us with primary recovery opportunities in new reservoirs or through extensions of existing fields. Our conventional development programs create future opportunities to convert these reservoirs to steamfloods or waterfloods after their primary production phase.
Waterfloods
Some of our fields have been partially produced and no longer have sufficient energy to drive oil to our producing wellbores. Waterflooding is a well understood process that has been used in California for over 50 years to re-introduce energy to the reservoir through water injection and to sweep oil to producing wellbores. This process has been known to increase recovery factors to approximately double those experienced under primary recovery methods. Our waterflood operations have attractive margins and returns in the current price environment. These operations typically have low and predictable production declines and allow us to extend the productive life of a reservoir and significantly increase our incremental recovery after primary recovery. As a result, investments in waterfloods can yield attractive returns in a low price environment. We use waterfloods extensively in the San Joaquin, Los Angeles and Ventura basins where they have allowed us to reduce production decline or modestly grow our production from mature fields such as Elk Hills and Wilmington.
Steamfloods
Some of our fields contain heavy, thick oil. Steamfloods work by injecting steam into the reservoir to heat the oil, decreasing its viscosity, or thinning the oil, allowing it to flow more easily to the producing wellbores. Steamflooding is a well understood process that has been used in California since the early 1960s. This process has been known to increase recovery factors from approximately 10% under primary recovery methods to up to approximately 75%. Thermal operations are most effective in shallow reservoirs containing heavy, viscous oil. The steamflood process is generally characterized by low capital investment with attractive margins and returns even in a low oil price environment as long as the oil-to-gas price ratio is in excess of five. The economics of steamflooding are largely a function of the ratio between oil and natural gas prices. After drilling, these operations typically ramp up production over one to two years as the steam continues to influence the oil production, and then exhibit a plateau for several months, with a subsequent low, predictable oil production decline rate of 5 to 10% per year. This gradual decline allows us to extend the productive life of a reservoir and significantly increase our incremental recovery after primary depletion. We use steamfloods extensively in the San Joaquin basin, where they have allowed us to grow our production from mature fields such as Kern Front and Lost Hills, among others.
Unconventional Reservoir Potential
We believe our undeveloped unconventional acreage has the potential to provide significant long-term production growth. In total, we hold mineral interests in approximately 1.3 million net acres with unconventional potential and have identified over 2,300 gross (2,000 net) unconventional drilling locations on this acreage. As a result of focusing more on these reservoirs over the past few years, approximately 33% of our 2015 production was from unconventional reservoirs, an increase of approximately 125% since the acquisition of our Elk Hills field properties in 1998. As of December 31, 2015, we had proved reserves of 180 MMBoe associated with our unconventional properties, approximately 25% of which were proved undeveloped reserves.
We hold significant interests in the Monterey formation, which is divided into upper and lower intervals. We have successfully produced from seven discrete stacked pay horizons within the upper Monterey. The lower Monterey is believed to be the principal source rock within the Monterey.
In a higher price environment, we plan to apply the knowledge acquired from our successes in the upper Monterey to other unconventional reservoirs in the San Joaquin basin such as the Kreyenhagen and Moreno formations. The Kreyenhagen and Moreno formations are hydrocarbon source rocks that have generated oil and gas, and we believe they offer similar development opportunities to the upper Monterey and other resource play reservoirs onshore U.S. The lower Monterey has an extremely limited production history compared to the upper Monterey, and therefore very limited knowledge exists regarding its potential. For example, only about 25 wells have tested the lower Monterey to date. However, we believe we will be able to apply knowledge we gain from the upper Monterey in the lower Monterey as well.
Exploration Program
We have a successful exploration program in both conventional and unconventional plays under which discoveries are quickly developed into producing fields. We believe our experienced technical staff, proprietary geological models, leading acreage position and extensive 3D seismic library give us a strong competitive advantage. Our interpretation of this seismic data, covering a large portion of our prospective acreage, and our extensive knowledge of California geology and producing fields, has resulted in a large inventory of low-risk exploratory projects in proven play trends. As of December 31, 2015, our drilling inventory included 9,800 gross (4,800 net) exploration drilling locations in proven reservoirs, the majority of which are located near existing producing fields. Additionally, we have identified 6,400 gross (5,300 net) prospective resource drilling locations in the lower Monterey, Kreyenhagen and Moreno unconventional reservoirs.
In 2015, we completed three conventional exploration projects all of which successfully encountered hydrocarbons. Within an existing producing field, one of our exploration wells, which was drilled in late 2014, encountered multiple, stacked conventional oil reservoirs. Over the course of 2015, we conducted operations to isolate and individually test two of the reservoir intervals with significant behind pipe pay remaining uphole. In those flow tests, the deepest reservoir interval flowed at peak daily rates of approximately 200 barrels of oil per day and was flowed on pump for six months. The second reservoir interval flowed naturally at peak daily rates in excess of 750 barrels of oil per day and 1.5 MMcf of natural gas per day. We believe there may be multiple analogous prospects in this underexplored play trend that could extend for over 20 miles.
Within the San Joaquin basin we drilled three exploration wells that successfully demonstrated and delineated the presence of a heavy oil accumulation. In the Sacramento Basin, we drilled one well to test a 50 square mile four-way closure that was mapped on our proprietary 2D seismic data. This conventional exploration well encountered multiple stacked gas bearing reservoirs.
We continue to develop our understanding and knowledge of the significant prospective resources in the exploration shale reservoirs. In 2015, we completed the acquisition of approximately 200 square miles of proprietary 3D seismic data around the Kettleman North Dome field that will aid with reservoir characterization and fracture analysis. In addition, we undertook reservoir analyses incorporating proprietary log and core data to further advance our understanding of exploration shale reservoirs. We completed four workovers in existing wellbores and drilled one new well undertaking zonal completions to assess the expected performance of individual zones of interest and identify landing zones for future horizontal development.
Our Reserves and Production Information
Reserves Data
The information with respect to our estimated reserves presented below has been prepared in accordance with the rules and regulations of the SEC.
Reserves Presentation
Proved oil, NGLs and natural gas reserves were estimated using the unweighted arithmetic average of the first-day-of-the-month price for each month within the year, unless prices were defined by contractual arrangements. Oil, NGLs and natural gas prices used for this purpose were based on posted benchmark prices and adjusted for price differentials including gravity, quality and transportation costs. For the 2015 disclosures, the calculated average Brent oil price was $55.57 per barrel and the average NYMEX gas price was $2.59 per Mcf. The average realized prices used for the 2015 disclosures were $50.54 per barrel for oil, $20.07 per barrel for NGLs and $2.55 per Mcf for natural gas.
During the course of 2015, we experienced significant and extended price declines from 2014, which impacted the quantity of reserves we reported as of December 31, 2015. The unweighted arithmetic average first-day-of-the-month price for Brent oil decreased from $101.30 per barrel for 2014 to $55.57 for 2015. As a result, we experienced negative price related revisions to our proved reserves at December 31, 2015. Generally, lower prices adversely impact the quantity of our reserves as those reserves may no longer meet the economic producibility criteria under the rules or may be removed due to a lower amount of capital available to develop these projects within the SEC-mandated five-year limit. However, our production-sharing contracts in Long Beach tend to partially offset these effects because our share of production and reserves from these contracts increases as prices decline. Further, during the course of the year we implemented significant cost reduction and efficiency steps, which reduced our total field operating costs by over 13% on a per Boe basis, and drilling costs by approximately 10%. These cost reductions, as well as efficiency efforts, offset a portion of the price-related loss of reserves quantities as some of the barrels that would become uneconomic in later years remain economic, a portion of the proved undeveloped reserves that would otherwise be removed from the reserves quantities become economic and we expect to drill more wells with the same amount of capital. We expect further costs savings to be achieved in 2016 but cannot assure that our expectations will be realized.
During the latter part of 2015, and into early 2016, oil prices continued to decline. If prices remain at or near current levels for the rest of 2016, or if they decline further, the prices used to determine our year-end 2016 reserves estimates could be significantly lower than those used for year-end 2015. Under such circumstances, we may experience further negative price-related revisions to our proved reserves at year-end 2016. If the SEC prices for the December 31, 2015 reserves determination were about $10 lower than those actually used, we believe our reserves quantities may have been lower by less than 15%. This estimate does not reflect the effect of further cost savings that we expect to achieve in 2016. If the SEC prices for the December 31, 2015 reserves determination were about $10 higher than those actually used, we believe our reserves quantities may have been higher by over 10%.
The following tables summarize our estimated proved reserves and related PV-10 and Standardized Measure at December 31, 2015. Reserves are stated net of applicable royalties. Estimated reserves include our economic interests under arrangements similar to production-sharing contracts relating to the Wilmington field in Long Beach.
(1)
Approximately 16% of proved developed oil reserves, 9% of proved developed NGLs reserves, 14% of proved developed natural gas reserves and 15% of total proved developed reserves are non-producing.
(2)
Natural gas volumes have been converted to Boe based on the equivalence of energy content between six Mcf of gas and one Bbl of oil. Barrels of oil equivalence does not necessarily result in price equivalence. The price of natural gas on a barrel of oil equivalent basis is currently substantially lower than the corresponding price for oil and has been similarly lower for a number of years. For example, in 2015, the average prices of Brent oil and NYMEX natural gas were $53.64 per Bbl and $2.75 per Mcf, respectively, resulting in an oil-to-gas price ratio of approximately 20 to 1.
PV-10, Standardized Measure and Reserves Replacement Ratio
(1)
PV-10 is a non-GAAP financial measure and represents the year-end present value of estimated future cash inflows from proved oil and natural gas reserves, less future development and production costs, discounted at 10% per annum to reflect the timing of future cash flows and using SEC prescribed pricing assumptions for the period. PV-10 differs from Standardized Measure because Standardized Measure includes the effects of future income taxes on future net cash flows. Neither PV-10 nor Standardized Measure should be construed as the fair value of our oil and natural gas reserves. PV-10 and Standardized Measure are used by the industry and by our management as an asset value measure to compare against our past reserves bases and the reserves bases of other business entities because the pricing, cost environment and discount assumptions are prescribed by the SEC and are comparable. PV-10 further facilitates the comparisons to other companies as it is not dependent on the tax paying status of the entity.
(2)
The organic reserves replacement ratio is calculated for a specified period using the proved oil-equivalent additions from extensions and discoveries, improved recovery and performance-related provisions, divided by oil-equivalent production. Approximately 48% of the additions for 2015 were proved undeveloped. There is no guarantee that historical sources of reserves additions will continue as many factors fully or partially outside management's control, including commodity prices, availability of capital and the underlying geology affect reserves additions. Management uses this measure to gauge the results of its capital allocation. The measure is limited in that reserves may be added and produced based on costs incurred in separate periods and other oil and gas producers may use different replacement ratios affecting comparability.
Proved Reserves Additions
We added 36 MMBoe resulting from our capital program, 45 MMBoe due to positive performance revisions and 6 MMBoe as a result of property acquisitions. These additions were offset by 153 MMBoe of negative revisions for volumes that became uneconomic due to lower prices. The price revisions incorporated the positive effect of lower operating costs also caused by the lower commodity price environment. In a higher price environment, many of the volumes that became uneconomic this year could again become economic and be added back to the reserves base. The components of the changes to our proved reserves during the year ended December 31, 2015 were as follows:
Our ability to add reserves, other than through acquisitions, depends on the success of improved recovery, extension and discovery projects, each of which depends on reservoir characteristics, technology improvements and oil and natural gas prices, as well as capital and operating costs. Many of these factors are outside management's control, and will affect whether the historical sources of proved reserves additions continue to provide reserves at similar levels.
Extensions and Discoveries
We added 33 MMBoe of proved reserves from extensions and discoveries, which generally result from exploration, exploitation and development programs. The extensions and discovery additions were associated with the continued successful drilling primarily in San Joaquin, Los Angeles, and Ventura basins.
Improved Recovery
In 2015, we added proved reserves of 3 MMBoe from improved recovery through proven IOR and EOR methods. The improved recovery additions in 2015 were associated with the continued development of thermal and water flood properties in the San Joaquin basin. The types of conventional IOR and EOR development methods we use can be applied through existing wells, though additional drilling is frequently required to fully optimize the development configuration.
Revisions of Previous Estimates
Revisions related to performance - Performance related revisions can include upward or downward changes to previous proved reserves estimates due to the evaluation or interpretation of geologic, production decline or operating performance data. In 2015, our positive performance related revisions of 45 MMBoe resulted primarily from better than expected reservoir performance, combined with lower development capital than previously estimated. These positive revisions came from the San Joaquin and Los Angeles basins.
Revisions related to price changes - In addition, product price changes affect proved reserves we record. For example, higher prices generally increase the economically recoverable reserves in all of our operations, because the extra margin extends their expected lives and renders more projects economic. Partially offsetting this effect, higher prices decrease our share of proved cost recovery reserves under arrangements similar to production-sharing contracts at our Long Beach operations because less oil is required to recover costs. Conversely, when prices drop, we experience the opposite effects. Total net negative price revisions in 2015 were 153 MMBoe. The price revisions incorporated the positive effect of lower operating costs also caused by the lower commodity price environment.
Proved Undeveloped Reserves
In 2015, we had proved undeveloped reserves additions of 25 MMBoe from extensions and discoveries and 3 MMBoe from improved recovery, primarily in the San Joaquin and Los Angeles basins and 11 MMBoe from performance-related revisions, offset by 69 MMBoe of negative revisions due to lower prices. We transferred 24 MMBoe of proved undeveloped reserves to the proved developed category as a result of the 2015 development program, almost all of which was in the San Joaquin basin. As a result, we converted approximately 16% of our beginning-of-year proved undeveloped reserves, adjusted for price changes, to proved developed reserves during the year, investing approximately $90 million of drilling capital. The total changes to our proved undeveloped reserves during the year ended December 31, 2015 were as follows:
Our year-end development plans and associated proved undeveloped reserves are consistent with SEC guidelines for development within five years. Global oversupply continues to suppress oil and gas prices significantly. Prolonged or further declines in commodity prices could require us to reduce expected capital spending over the next five years, potentially impacting either the quantity or the development timing of proved undeveloped reserves.
Reserves Evaluation and Review Process
Our estimates of proved reserves and associated future net cash flows as of December 31, 2015 were made by our technical personnel, such as reservoir engineers and geoscientists, with the assistance of operational and financial personnel and are the responsibility of management. The estimation of proved reserves is based on the requirement of reasonable certainty of economic producibility and management's funding commitments to develop the reserves. Reserves volumes are estimated by forecasts of production rates, operating costs and capital investments. Price differentials between specified benchmark prices and realized prices and specifics of each operating agreement are then used to estimate the net reserves. Production rate forecasts are derived using a number of methods, including estimates from decline-curve analysis, type-curve analysis, material balance calculations that take into account the volumes of substances replacing the volumes produced and associated reservoir pressure changes, seismic analysis and computer simulations of reservoir performance. These field-tested technologies have demonstrated reasonably certain results with consistency and repeatability in the formations being evaluated or in analogous formations. Operating and capital costs are forecast using the current cost environment applied to expectations of future operating and development activities related to the proved reserves.
Net proved developed reserves are those volumes that are expected to be recovered through existing wells with existing equipment and operating methods, for which the incremental cost of any additional required investment is relatively minor. Net proved undeveloped reserves are those volumes that are expected to be recovered from new wells on undrilled acreage, or from existing wells where a relatively major expenditure is required.
Our Vice President, Reserves and Corporate Development has primary responsibility for overseeing the preparation of our reserves estimates. She has over 15 years of experience as an energy sector engineer including as a Senior Reservoir Engineer with Ryder Scott Company, L.P. (Ryder Scott). She is a member of the Society of Petroleum Engineers (SPE) for which she served as past chair of the U.S. Registration Committee. She holds a Master of Business Administration from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, a Master of Engineering in Petroleum Engineering from the University of Houston and a Bachelor of Science from the University of Florida. She is also a registered engineer in the state of Texas.
We have an Oil and Gas Reserves Review Committee (Reserves Committee), consisting of senior corporate officers, which reviewed and approved our oil and natural gas reserves for 2015. The Reserves Committee reports to the Audit Committee during the year.
Audits of Reserves Estimates
Ryder Scott was engaged to provide an independent audit of our 2015 reserves estimates for fields that comprise at least 80% of our total proved reserves. Previously, Ryder Scott conducted process reviews of our properties on behalf of our former parent. The primary technical engineer responsible for our audit has 25 years of petroleum engineering experience, 20 of which have been in the estimation and evaluation of reserves. He serves on the Ryder Scott Board of Directors, is an advising member of SPE's Oil and Gas Reserves Committee and a registered Professional Engineer in the state of Texas.
The 2015 reserves audit included a detailed review of 80% of our total proved reserves. Ryder Scott examined the assumptions underlying our reserves estimates, adequacy and quality of our work product, and estimates of future production rates, net revenues, and the present value of such net revenues. Ryder Scott also examined the appropriateness of the methodologies employed to estimate our reserves as well as their categorization, using the definitions set forth by the SEC. As part of their process, Ryder Scott developed their own independent estimates of reserves for those fields that they audited. When compared on a field-by-field basis, some of our estimates were greater and some were less than the estimates of Ryder Scott. Given the inherent uncertainties and judgments in estimating proved reserves, differences between our and Ryder Scott's estimates are to be expected. The aggregate difference between our estimates and Ryder Scott's was less than 10%, which was within SPE's acceptable tolerance.
In the conduct of the reserves audit, Ryder Scott did not independently verify the accuracy and completeness of information and data furnished by us with respect to ownership interests, crude oil and natural gas production, well test data, historical costs of operation and development, product prices, or any agreements relating to current and future operations of the fields and sales of production. However, if anything came to Ryder Scott's attention which brought into question the validity or sufficiency of any such information or data, Ryder Scott would not rely on such information or data until it had resolved its questions relating thereto or had independently verified such information or data.
Ryder Scott determined that our estimates of reserves have been prepared in accordance with the definitions and regulations of the SEC as well as the Standards Pertaining to the Estimating and Auditing of Oil and Gas Reserves Information promulgated by the SPE, including the criteria of “reasonable certainty,” as it pertains to expectations about the recoverability of reserves in future years, under existing economic and operating conditions. Ryder Scott issued an unqualified audit opinion on our proved reserves at December 31, 2015. Ryder Scott's report is attached as an exhibit to this Form 10-K.
Determination of Identified Drilling Locations
Proven Drilling Locations
Based on our reserves report as of December 31, 2015, we have approximately 2,600 gross (2,250 net) drilling locations attributable to our proved undeveloped reserves. We use production data and experience gained from our development programs to identify and prioritize this proven drilling inventory. These drilling locations are included in our inventory only after they have been evaluated technically and are deemed to be drillable within a five-year time frame. As a result of rigorous technical evaluation of geologic and engineering data, it can be estimated with reasonable certainty that reserves from these locations will be commercially recoverable in accordance with SEC guidelines. Management considers the availability of local infrastructure, drilling support assets, state and local regulations and other factors it deems relevant in determining such locations.
Unproven Drilling Locations
We have also identified a multi-year inventory of 11,100 gross (9,700 net) drilling locations that are not associated with proved undeveloped reserves but are specifically identified on a field-by-field basis considering the applicable geologic, engineering and production data. We analyze past field development practices and identify analogous drilling opportunities taking into consideration historical production performance, estimated drilling and completion costs, spacing and other performance factors. These drilling locations primarily include (i) infill drilling locations, (ii) additional locations due to field extensions or (iii) potential IOR and EOR project expansions, some of which are currently in the pilot phase across our properties, but have yet to be moved to the proven category. We believe the assumptions and data used to estimate these drilling locations are consistent with established industry practices with well spacing selected based on the type of recovery process we are using.
Exploration Drilling Locations
Our portfolio of prospective drilling locations contains approximately 9,800 gross (4,800 net) unrisked exploration drilling locations in proven reservoirs, the majority of which are located near existing producing fields. We use internally generated information and proprietary geologic models consisting of data from analog plays, 3D seismic data, open hole and mud log data, cores, and reservoir engineering data to help define the extent of the targeted intervals and the potential ability of such intervals to produce commercial quantities of hydrocarbons. Information used to identify exploration locations includes both our own proprietary data, as well as industry data available in the public domain. After defining the potential areal extent of an exploration prospect, we identify our exploration drilling locations within the prospect by applying the well spacing historically utilized for the applicable type of recovery process used in adjacent fields.
Prospective Resource Drilling Locations
In addition, we have approximately 6,400 gross (5,300 net) unrisked prospective resource drilling locations identified in the lower Monterey, Kreyenhagen and Moreno unconventional reservoirs based on screening criteria that contain geologic and economic considerations and limited production information. Prospective play areas are defined by geologic data consisting of well cuttings, hydrocarbon shows, open-hole well logs, geochemical data, available 3D or 2D seismic data and formation pressure data, where available. Information used to identify our prospective locations includes both our own proprietary data, as well as industry data available in the public domain. Prospective resource drilling locations were based on an assumption of 80-acre spacing per well throughout the prospective area for each resource play.
Well Spacing Determination
Our well spacing determinations in the above categories of identified well locations are based on actual operational spacing within our existing producing fields, which we believe are reasonable for the particular recovery process employed (i.e., primary, waterflood or EOR). Due to the significant vertical thickness and multiple stacked reservoirs usually encountered by our drilling wells, typical well spacing is generally less than 20 acres and often 10 acres or less in the majority of our fields unless specified differently above. These parameters also meet the general well spacing restrictions imposed on certain oil and gas fields in California.
Drilling Schedule
Our identified drilling locations have been scheduled as part of our current multi-year drilling schedule or are expected to be scheduled in the future. However, we may not drill our identified sites at the times scheduled or at all. We view the risk profile for our exploration drilling locations and our prospective resource drilling locations as being higher than for our other drilling locations due to relatively less available geologic and production data and drilling history, in particular with respect to our prospective resource locations, which are in unproven geologic plays. We make assumptions about the consistency and accuracy of data when we identify these locations that may prove inaccurate.
Our ability to profitably drill and develop our identified drilling locations depends on a number of variables, including crude oil and natural gas prices, capital availability, costs, drilling results, regulatory approvals, available transportation capacity and other factors. If future drilling results in these projects do not establish sufficient reserves to achieve an economic return, we may curtail drilling or development of these projects. For a discussion of the risks associated with our drilling program, see "Risk Factors-Risks Related to Our Business and Industry."
With our limited capital budget for 2016, including no exploration, many of the identified drilling locations may be uneconomic at current prices. The table below sets forth our total gross identified drilling locations as of December 31, 2015, excluding our prospective drilling locations from new resource plays.
Production, Price and Cost History
Oil, NGLs and natural gas are commodities; therefore, the price that we receive for our production is largely a function of market supply and demand. Product prices are affected by a variety of factors, including changes in consumption patterns, inventory levels, global and local economic conditions, the actions of OPEC and other significant producers and governments, actual or threatened production and refining disruptions, currency exchange rates, worldwide drilling and exploration activities, the effects of conservation, weather, geophysical and technical limitations, refining and processing disruptions, transportation bottlenecks and other matters affecting the supply and demand dynamics for our products, technological advances and regional market conditions; transportation capacity and costs in producing areas; and the effect of changes in these variables on market perceptions. Given the volatile oil price environment, as well as our leverage, we began a hedging program shortly after the Spin-off to protect our cash flow and capital investment program and improve our ability to comply with our credit facility covenants in case of further price deterioration.
Fixed and Variable Costs
Our total production costs consist of variable costs that tend to vary depending on production levels, and fixed costs that do not vary with changes in production levels or well counts, especially in the short term. The substantial majority of our near-term fixed costs become variable over the longer term because we manage them based on the field’s stage of life and operating characteristics. For example, portions of labor and material costs, energy, workovers and maintenance expenditures correlate to well count, production and activity levels. Portions of these same costs can be relatively fixed over the near term; however, they are managed down as fields mature in a manner that correlates to production and commodity price levels. While a certain amount of costs for facilities, surface support, surveillance and related maintenance can be regarded as fixed in the early phases of a program, as the production from a certain area matures, well count increases and daily per well production drops, such support costs can be reduced and consolidated over a larger number of wells, reducing costs per operating well. Further, many of our other costs, such as property taxes and oilfield services, are variable and will respond to activity levels and tend to correlate with commodity prices. Overall, we believe less than one-third of our operating costs are fixed over the life cycle of our fields. We actively manage our fields to optimize production and costs. If we see growth in a field we increase capacities, and similarly if a field is reaching the end of its economic life we would manage the costs while it remains economically viable to produce.
The following table sets forth information regarding production, realized and benchmark prices, and costs for oil and gas producing activities for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013. For additional information on price calculations, see information set forth in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations."
(a)
For 2015 and 2014, the amount excludes asset impairment charges of $4.9 billion and $3.4 billion, respectively.
(b)
For 2015, the amount excludes unusual and infrequent costs of $0.31 per Boe related to early retirement and severance costs. For 2014, the amount excludes unusual and infrequent costs of $0.10 per Boe related to Spin-off and transition related costs.
(c)
For 2015, the amount excludes unusual and infrequent costs related to the write-down of certain assets and rig termination charges of $1.42 per Boe. For 2014, the amount excludes unusual and infrequent costs related to rig termination charges and Spin-off and transition related costs of $0.97 per Boe.
The following table sets forth information regarding production, realized prices and production costs for our largest two fields, Elk Hills and Wilmington, for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013:
(a)
Natural gas volumes have been converted to Boe based on the equivalence of energy content between six Mcf of natural gas to one Bbl of oil. Barrels of oil equivalence does not necessarily result in price equivalence. The price of natural gas on a barrel of oil equivalent basis is currently substantially lower than the corresponding price for oil and has been similarly lower for a number of years. For example, in 2015, the average prices of Brent oil and NYMEX natural gas were $53.64 per Bbl and $2.75 per Mcf, respectively, resulting in an oil-to-gas price ratio of approximately 20 to 1.
(b)
Excludes the effect of hedges.
The following table sets forth our reserves and production by basin and recovery mechanism:
(a)
Includes reserves and production from gas injection of 35% and 9%, respectively.
Productive Wells
As of December 31, 2015, we had a total of 9,067 gross (8,123 net) producing wells, approximately 91% of which were oil wells. Our average working interest in our producing wells is approximately 90%. Many of our oil wells produce associated natural gas and some of our natural gas wells also produce condensate and NGLs.
The following table sets forth our productive oil and natural gas wells (both producing and capable of production) as of December 31, 2015, excluding wells that have been idle for more than five years:
(a)
Numbers in parentheses indicate the number of wells with multiple completions.
(b)
The total number of wells in which interests are owned.
(c)
Includes fractional interests.
Acreage
The following table sets forth certain information regarding the total developed and undeveloped acreage in which we owned an interest as of December 31, 2015, of which approximately 60% is held in fee. Of the remaining portion that is leased, approximately 40% was held by production at December 31, 2015.
(a)
Acres spaced or assigned to productive wells.
(b)
Total acres in which we hold an interest.
(c)
Sum of fractional interests owned based on working interests or interests under arrangements similar to production-sharing contracts.
(d)
Acres on which wells have not been drilled or completed to a point that would permit the production of commercial quantities of oil and natural gas, regardless of whether the acreage contains proved reserves.
Work programs are designed to ensure that the exploration potential of any leased property is fully evaluated before expiration. In some instances, we may relinquish leased acreage in advance of the contractual expiration date if the evaluation process is complete and there is no longer a business basis for leasing that acreage. In cases where we determine we want to take the additional time required to fully evaluate acreage, we have generally been successful in obtaining extensions. The combined net acreage covered by leases expiring in the next three years represents 19% of our total net undeveloped acreage at December 31, 2015 and these expirations would not have a material adverse impact on us. Historically, we have not dedicated any significant portion of our capital program to prevent lease expirations and do not expect we will need to do so in the future.
Participation in Exploratory and Development Wells Being Drilled
The following table sets forth our participation in exploratory and development wells being drilled as of December 31, 2015.
At December 31, 2015, we were producing from eight steamfloods and 42 waterfloods. We currently do not have any ongoing material capital investments in these projects. All of the significant steamflood projects were located in the San Joaquin basin. Twenty-five waterflood projects were located in the Los Angeles basin and 17 in the San Joaquin basin.
Drilling Activity
The following table describes our drilling activity for the periods indicated. The information should not be considered indicative of future performance, nor should it be assumed that there is necessarily any correlation among the number of productive wells drilled, quantities of reserves found or economic value. Productive wells are those that produce, or are capable of producing, commercial quantities of hydrocarbons, regardless of whether they produce a reasonable rate of return. Net wells represent the sum of fractional interests in wells in which we own an interest.
Delivery Commitments
We have made short-term commitments to certain refineries and other buyers to deliver oil, natural gas and NGLs. As of December 31, 2015, we had 30- to 90-day oil delivery commitments ranging from 21 MBbls/d to 41 MBbls/d, gas contracts for 2 Bcf of natural gas under 30-day contracts and 2 Bcf of natural gas under 90-day contracts, and NGL commitments for 1 MMBbls of NGLs through March 2016. These are index-based contracts with prices set at the time of delivery. We have significantly more production capacity than the amounts committed and have the ability to secure additional volumes in case of a shortfall. None of the commitments in any given year is expected to have a material impact on our financial statements.
Our Infrastructure
We own infrastructure that is integral to and significantly complements our operations. Our Elk Hills cryogenic gas plant has a capacity of 200 MMcf/d of wellhead gas bringing our total Elk Hills processing capacity to over 540 MMcf/d. We also own and operate a system of natural gas processing facilities in the Ventura basin that are capable of processing equity wellhead gas from the surrounding areas. Our natural gas processing facilities are interconnected via pipelines to nearby third-party rail and trucking facilities, with access to certain North American NGLs markets. In addition, we have truck rack facilities coupled with a battery of pressurized storage tanks at our Elk Hills natural gas processing facility for NGL sales to third parties.
We generate all of our electricity needs at our Elk Hills operations, which utilizes approximately a third of our wholly-owned 550 megawatt combined-cycle power plant located adjacent to our Elk Hills processing facilities, and sell the excess. We also operate a 46 megawatt cogeneration facility at Elk Hills that provides resource diversity and additional reliability to support field operations. Within our Long Beach operations, we operate a 45 megawatt power generating facility that provides over 40% of the Long Beach operation’s electricity requirements, reducing operating costs. These power facilities are integrated with our operations to improve their reliability and performance.
We own an extensive network of over 20,000 miles of oil and gas gathering lines. These gathering lines are dedicated almost entirely to collect our oil and gas production and are in close proximity to field specific facilities such as tank settings or central processing sites. These lines provide a variety of services, including connecting our producing wells to gathering networks, natural gas collection and compression systems, lines for water treating and injection services, steam supply for our thermal properties, and water lines that deliver treated water for agriculture. Nearly all of our oil is then transported through third party pipelines with flexibility to ship to various parties. In addition, virtually all of our natural gas production interconnects with major third-party natural gas pipeline systems. As a result of these connections, we typically have the ability to access multiple delivery points to improve the prices we obtain for our oil and natural gas production.
ITEM 3