ITEM 2
PROPERTIES
Our Operations
Our Areas of Operation
California is one of the most prolific oil and natural gas producing regions in the world and is the third largest oil producing state in the nation. According to DOGGR, cumulative California production from all four basins in which we operate is 36 billion barrels of oil equivalent (BBoe), including approximately 20 BBoe in the San Joaquin basin, 11 BBoe in the Los Angeles basin, 3 BBoe in the Ventura basin and 10 trillion cubic feet (Tcf) of natural gas in the Sacramento basin. Additionally, Kern County has been one of the top two largest oil producing counties in the lower 48 states for a number of years. California is heavily reliant on imported sources of energy, with approximately 65% of oil and 90% of natural gas consumed in recent years imported from outside the state. A vast majority of the imported oil arrives via supertanker, mostly from foreign locations. As a result, California refiners have typically purchased crude oil at international waterborne-based prices. Because of limited crude transportation infrastructure from other parts of the country to California, the California market is generally isolated from the rest of the nation, which we believe has offered relatively favorable pricing compared to other U.S. regions for similar grades. The favorable pricing, coupled with the high percentage of oil in our total production, provides us with attractive cash operating margins. Our operations include 135 fields with 8,837 gross active wellbores as of December 31, 2016. We believe we are the largest private oil and natural gas mineral acreage holder in California, with interests in approximately 2.3 million net acres. Approximately 60% of our total net mineral interest position is held in fee. A majority of our interests are in producing properties located in reservoirs characterized by what we believe to be long-lived production profiles with repeatable development opportunities.
In 2016 we produced 51 million barrels of oil equivalent (MMBoe). Our capital program, along with positive performance-related revisions of 13 MMBoe, added 36 MMBoe of proved reserves in 2016 representing a 71% organic reserves replacement ratio. This was accomplished with $31 million of drilling and workover capital. For further information on our reserves replacement ratio, see "Our Reserves and Production Information - PV-10, Standardized Measure and Reserves Replacement Ratio" section below.
San Joaquin Basin
We actively operate and are developing 45 fields in this inland basin in the southern part of California's central valley, which consists of conventional primary, IOR, EOR and unconventional project types with approximately 1.5 million net acres, approximately 64% of which we hold in fee. Approximately 76% of our estimated proved reserves as of December 31, 2016 were located in, and 69% of our average daily net production for the year ended December 31, 2016 came from, the San Joaquin basin.
According to DOGGR, approximately 75% of California’s daily oil production for 2015 was produced in the San Joaquin basin. Commercial petroleum development began in the basin in the 1800s. Rapid discovery of many of the largest oil accumulations followed during the next several decades, including the Elk Hills field. We have been redeveloping this field and building our expertise to use in other fields across the state. According to the U.S. Geological Survey as of 2012, the San Joaquin basin contained three of the 10 largest oil fields in the United States based on cumulative production and proved reserves. We have been successfully developing steamfloods in our Kern Front operations, which are located next to the giant Kern River field, and in the northwest portion of the Lost Hills field. Beginning in the 1980s, reserves additions occurred in the Monterey formation on the west side of the basin and in our new conventional field discoveries. The basin contains multiple stacked formations throughout its areal extent, and we believe that the San Joaquin basin provides an appealing inventory of existing field re-development opportunities, as well as new play discovery and unconventional play potential. The complex stratigraphy and structure in the San Joaquin basin has allowed continuing discoveries of stratigraphic and structural traps. We believe our extensive 3D seismic library, which covers nearly 3,000 square miles in the San Joaquin basin, including 50% of our acreage, will give us a competitive advantage in further exploring this basin.
We have established a large ownership interest in several of the largest existing oil fields in the San Joaquin basin, including Elk Hills, our largest producing field, as well as the Buena Vista and Kettleman North Dome fields.
Elk Hills
Elk Hills is one of the largest fields in the continental United States based on proved reserves and has produced over 2.0 BBoe to date. During the year ended December 31, 2016, we produced 52 MBoe/d on average from our Elk Hills properties, or approximately 37% of our total average daily production. Of our total Elk Hills production, 65% is liquids. We also operate efficient natural gas processing facilities, including a state-of-the-art cryogenic gas plant, with a combined capacity of over 590 MMcf/d. Additionally, we generate sufficient electricity to operate the field and sell excess power to the grid and to others through contractual agreements. A portion of our excess power is subject to a five-year contract with a local utility, which includes a minimum capacity payment, thereby providing us with rates that are generally better than we could receive from sales to the grid. Our operations at Elk Hills include a state-of-the-art central control facility and remote automation control on over 95% of our wells.
Los Angeles Basin
We actively operate and are developing 8 fields in this urban, coastal basin which consists of conventional primary, IOR, EOR and unconventional project types, approximately half of which we hold in fee. Approximately 17% of our estimated proved reserves as of December 31, 2016 were located in, and 21% of our average daily net production for the year ended December 31, 2016 came from, the Los Angeles basin.
The basin is a northwest-trending plain about 50 miles long and 20 miles wide. Most of the significant discoveries in the Los Angeles basin date back to the 1920s. The Los Angeles basin has one of the highest concentrations per acre of crude oil in the world with 68 fields in an area of about 0.3 million acres. The basin contains multiple stacked formations throughout its depths, and we believe that the Los Angeles basin provides a considerable inventory of existing field re-development opportunities as well as new play discovery potential. Large active oil fields include the Wilmington and Huntington Beach fields, where we have significant operations.
Wilmington Oil Field
The Wilmington field located in Long Beach is the fourth largest field in the United States and has produced over 3.0 BBoe to date. During the year ended December 31, 2016, we produced approximately 33 MBoe/d gross on average, or 98% of the Wilmington field's daily production from all producers for the year. We operate in this field on behalf of the state of California and the city of Long Beach. Our net production in 2016 of approximately 25 MBoe/d equated to approximately 18% of our total average daily production. Most of our Wilmington production is covered under a set of contracts similar to production-sharing contracts under which we recover the capital and operating costs we incur on behalf of the state and the city of Long Beach and receive our share of profits. The field is developed by applying waterflood methods of oil recovery. Our waterflood operations have attractive margins and returns in the current price environment and extend the productive life of our reservoirs beyond the economic life expected for primary development.
Ventura Basin
We actively operate and are developing 29 fields in this central California coastal basin which consists of primary conventional, IOR, EOR and unconventional project types. We currently hold approximately 0.3 million net acres in the Ventura basin, approximately 72% of which we hold in fee. Approximately 5% of our estimated proved reserves as of December 31, 2016 were located in, and approximately 5% of our average daily net production for the year ended December 31, 2016 came from, the Ventura basin.
The Ventura basin is the onshore part of a structural feature and its offshore extension is the modern Santa Barbara basin. All of the sedimentary section is productive at various locations, and most reservoirs are sandstones with favorable porosity and permeability. The basin contains multiple stacked formations throughout its depths, and we believe that the Ventura basin provides an appealing inventory of existing field re-development opportunities, as well as new play exploration potential.
Sacramento Basin
We actively operate and are developing 53 fields in this inland basin in the northern part of California's central valley, primarily consisting of dry gas production. We currently hold approximately 0.5 million net acres in the Sacramento basin, approximately 37% of which we hold in fee. We believe our significant acreage position in the Sacramento basin gives us the option for future development and rapid production growth in an attractive natural gas price environment. Approximately 2% of our estimated proved reserves as of December 31, 2016 were located in, and approximately 4% of our average daily net production for the year ended December 31, 2016 came from, the Sacramento basin.
The Sacramento basin is a deep, thick sequence of sedimentary deposits within an elongated northwest-trending structural feature covering about 7.7 million acres. Exploration and development in the basin began in 1918.
Conventional Reservoir Recovery Methods
We determine which development method to use based on reservoir characteristics, reserves potential and expected returns. We seek to optimize the potential of our conventional assets by progressively using primary recovery methods, which may include some well stimulation techniques, IOR methods like waterflooding and EOR methods such as steamflooding, using both vertical and horizontal drilling. All of these techniques are proven technologies we have used extensively in California.
Primary Recovery
Primary recovery is a reservoir drive mechanism that utilizes the natural energy of the reservoir and is the first technique we use to develop a reservoir. Primary recovery is achieved by drilling and producing wells without supplementing the natural energy of the reservoir. Our successful exploration program continues to provide us with primary recovery opportunities in new reservoirs or through extensions of existing fields. Our conventional development programs create future opportunities to convert these reservoirs to waterfloods or steamfloods after their primary production phase.
Waterfloods
Some of our fields have been partially produced and no longer have sufficient energy to drive oil to our producing wellbores. Waterflooding is a well understood process that has been used in California for over 50 years to re-introduce energy to the reservoir through water injection and to sweep oil to producing wellbores. This process has been known to increase recovery factors from approximately 10% under primary recovery methods to up to approximately 20%. Our waterflood operations have attractive margins and returns in the current price environment. These operations typically have low and predictable production declines and allow us to extend the productive life of a reservoir and significantly increase our incremental recovery after primary recovery. As a result, investments in waterfloods can yield attractive returns even in a low price environment. We use waterfloods extensively in the San Joaquin, Los Angeles and Ventura basins where they have allowed us to reduce production declines or modestly grow our production from mature fields such as Elk Hills and Wilmington.
Steamfloods
Some of our fields contain heavy, thick oil. Steamfloods work by injecting steam into the reservoir to heat the oil, decreasing its viscosity, or thinning the oil, allowing it to flow more easily to the producing wellbores. Steamflooding is a well understood process that has been used in California since the early 1960s. This process has been known to increase recovery factors from approximately 10% under primary recovery methods to up to approximately 75%. Thermal operations are most effective in shallow reservoirs containing heavy, viscous oil. The steamflood process is generally characterized by low capital investment with attractive margins and returns even in a low oil price environment as long as the oil-to-gas price ratio is in excess of five. The economics of steamflooding are largely a function of the ratio between oil and natural gas prices. After drilling, these operations typically ramp up production over one to two years as the steam continues to influence the oil production, and then exhibit a plateau for several months, with a subsequent low, predictable production decline rate of 5 to 10% per year. This gradual decline allows us to extend the productive life of a reservoir and significantly increase our incremental recovery after primary depletion. We use steamfloods extensively in the San Joaquin basin, where they have allowed us to grow our production from mature fields such as Kern Front and Lost Hills, among others.
Unconventional Reservoir Potential
We believe our undeveloped unconventional acreage has the potential to provide significant long-term production growth. In total, we hold mineral interests in approximately 1.3 million net acres with unconventional potential and have identified over 3,750 gross (3,400 net) unconventional drilling locations on this acreage. As a result of focusing more on these reservoirs over the past few years, approximately 32% of our 2016 production was from unconventional reservoirs, an increase of approximately 95% since the acquisition of our Elk Hills field properties in 1998. As of December 31, 2016, we had proved reserves of approximately 170 MMBoe associated with our unconventional properties, approximately 26% of which were proved undeveloped reserves.
We hold significant interests in the Monterey formation, which is divided into upper and lower intervals. We have successfully produced from seven discrete stacked pay horizons within the upper Monterey. During the year ended December 31, 2016, we produced approximately 48 MBoe/d on average from upper Monterey. The lower Monterey is recognized as a world-class source rock generating the majority of the hydrocarbons produced from fields across California.
In a higher price environment, we plan to apply the knowledge acquired from our successes in the upper Monterey to other unconventional reservoirs in the San Joaquin basin such as the Kreyenhagen and Moreno formations. The Kreyenhagen and Moreno formations are hydrocarbon source rocks that have generated oil and gas, and we believe they offer similar development opportunities to the upper Monterey and other resource play onshore U.S. reservoirs. The lower Monterey has an extremely limited production history compared to the upper Monterey, and therefore very limited knowledge exists regarding its potential. For example, only about 25 wells have tested the lower Monterey to date. However, we believe we will be able to apply knowledge we gain from the upper Monterey in the lower Monterey as well.
Exploration Program
California is one of the most prolific hydrocarbon producing regions as a result of its world-class source rocks and stacked conventional and unconventional reservoirs. California basins have generated billions of barrels of oil and have established production from over 270 identified reservoir intervals in both structural and stratigraphic trap configurations. Historic industry activity has focused on the primary and secondary development of known hydrocarbon accumulations, many of which were discovered over one century ago. The hydrocarbon basins where we have significant land positions remain underexplored.
We have a successful exploration program in both conventional and unconventional plays under which discoveries have been quickly developed into producing fields as demonstrated by our past success rates, which have been approximately double the worldwide industry average over the last decade. We believe our experienced technical staff, proprietary geological models, leading acreage position and extensive 3D seismic library give us a strong competitive advantage.
The underexplored nature of the California basins and the unique competitive advantage provided by our extensive technical knowledge, land position and proprietary data have resulted in a large inventory of low-risk conventional exploration projects in proven play trends. We took advantage of our recent lower activity levels to create a ranked near-field portfolio of over 150 exploration prospects across the San Joaquin, Sacramento and Ventura basins. As of December 31, 2016, our project inventory increased to approximately 12,100 gross (5,650 net) conventional exploration drilling locations in proven reservoirs. The majority of these locations are located near and are analogous to existing producing fields or our recent exploration discoveries.
We continue to develop our understanding and knowledge of the significant prospective resources in the exploration shale reservoirs. In 2016, we completed the data processing of approximately 200 square miles of proprietary 3D seismic data around the Kettleman North Dome field that aids reservoir characterization and fracture analysis. In addition, we undertook reservoir analysis incorporating proprietary log and core data to further advance our understanding of exploration shale reservoirs. We have identified approximately 6,400 gross (5,300 net) prospective resource drilling locations in the lower Moneterey, Kreyenhagen and Moreno unconventional reservoirs.
Our Reserves and Production Information
Reserves Data
The information with respect to our estimated reserves presented below has been prepared in accordance with the rules and regulations of the SEC.
Reserves Presentation
Proved oil, NGLs and natural gas reserves were estimated using the unweighted arithmetic average of the first-day-of-the-month price for each month within the year (SEC prices), unless prices were defined by contractual arrangements. Oil, NGLs and natural gas prices used for this purpose were based on posted benchmark prices and adjusted for price differentials to account for gravity, quality and transportation costs. For the 2016 disclosures, the calculated average Brent oil price was $42.90 per barrel and the average NYMEX gas price was $2.48 per Million British Thermal Units (MMBtu). The average realized prices used for the 2016 disclosures were $39.83 per barrel for oil, $21.54 per barrel for NGLs and $2.28 per Mcf for natural gas.
The following tables summarize our estimated proved reserves at December 31, 2016. Reserves are stated net of applicable royalties. Estimated reserves include our economic interests under arrangements similar to production-sharing contracts relating to the Wilmington field in Long Beach.
(a)
As of December 31, 2016, approximately 20% of proved developed oil reserves, 11% of proved developed NGLs reserves, 14% of proved developed natural gas reserves and, overall, 17% of total proved developed reserves are non-producing. A majority of our non-producing reserves relate to steamfloods and waterfloods where full peak production response has not yet occurred due to the nature of such projects.
(b)
Natural gas volumes have been converted to Boe based on the equivalence of energy content between six Mcf of gas and one Bbl of oil. Barrels of oil equivalence does not necessarily result in price equivalence. The price of natural gas on a barrel of oil equivalent basis is currently substantially lower than the corresponding price for oil and has been similarly lower for a number of years. For example, in 2016, the average prices of Brent oil and NYMEX natural gas were $45.04 per Bbl and $2.42 per MMBtu, respectively, resulting in an oil-to-gas price ratio of approximately 19 to 1.
Proved Reserves Additions
In 2016, we added 23 MMBoe of proved reserves resulting from our capital program and 13 MMBoe due to positive performance revisions. These additions were offset by negative price-related revisions of 60 MMBoe. The price revisions incorporated the positive effect of lower operating costs also caused by the lower commodity price environment. In a higher price environment, many of the volumes that became uneconomic this year could again become economic and be added back to the reserves base though possible operating cost increases may dampen the volume increase. The components of the changes to our proved reserves during the year ended December 31, 2016 were as follows:
Our ability to add reserves, other than through acquisitions, depends on the success of improved recovery, extension and discovery projects, each of which depends on reservoir characteristics, technology improvements and oil and natural gas prices, as well as capital and operating costs. Many of these factors are outside management's control, and will affect whether the historical sources of proved reserves additions continue to provide reserves at similar levels.
Improved Recovery
In 2016, we added proved reserves of 3 MMBoe from improved recovery through proven IOR and EOR methods. The improved recovery additions in 2016 were associated with the continued development of steamflood and waterflood properties in the San Joaquin basin. The types of conventional IOR and EOR development methods we use can be applied through existing wells, though additional drilling is frequently required to fully optimize the development configuration.
Extensions and Discoveries
In 2016, we added 20 MMBoe of proved reserves from extensions and discoveries, which generally result from exploration, exploitation and development programs. The extensions and discovery additions were associated with the continued successful but limited drilling primarily in the San Joaquin, Los Angeles, and Ventura basins.
Revisions of Previous Estimates
Revisions related to performance - Performance related revisions can include upward or downward changes to previous proved reserves estimates due to the evaluation or interpretation of geologic, production decline or operating performance data. In 2016, our positive performance related revisions of 13 MMBoe resulted primarily from better than expected reservoir performance and comprehensive field development planning. These positive revisions primarily came from the San Joaquin and Ventura basins.
Revisions related to price changes - Product price changes affect proved reserves we record. For example, higher prices generally increase the economically recoverable reserves in all of our operations, because the extra margin extends their expected lives and renders more projects economic. Partially offsetting this effect, higher prices decrease our share of proved cost recovery reserves under arrangements similar to production-sharing contracts at our Long Beach operations because less oil is required to recover costs. Conversely, when prices drop, we experience the opposite effects. Total net negative price revisions in 2016 were 60 MMBoe. The price revisions incorporated the positive effect of lower operating costs also caused by the lower commodity price environment.
During the course of 2016 we experienced further price declines compared to 2015, resulting in the average SEC price for Brent oil decreasing from $55.57 per barrel for 2015 to $42.90 for 2016. As a result, we experienced negative price related revisions to our proved reserves at December 31, 2016 of 60 MMBoe. Generally, lower prices adversely impact the quantity of our reserves as those reserves may no longer meet the economic producibility criteria under the rules or may be removed due to a lower amount of capital available to develop these projects within the SEC-mandated five-year limit. However, our production-sharing contracts in Long Beach tend to partially offset these effects because our share of production and reserves from these contracts increases as prices decline. Further, during the course of the year we implemented significant cost reduction and efficiency steps, which reduced our production costs by approximately 16% and drilling costs by approximately 23%. These cost reductions, as well as other efficiency efforts, offset a portion of the price-related loss of reserves quantities as some of the barrels that would have become uneconomic in later years remain economic, a portion of the proved undeveloped reserves that would otherwise be removed from the reserves quantities become economic and we expect to drill more wells with the same amount of capital.
Proved Undeveloped Reserves
In 2016, we had proved undeveloped reserves additions of 12 MMBoe from extensions and discoveries primarily in the San Joaquin and Los Angeles basins and 20 MMBoe from performance-related revisions, offset by 29 MMBoe of negative revisions due to lower prices. We transferred 4 MMBoe of proved undeveloped reserves to the proved developed category as a result of the 2016 development program, all of which was in the San Joaquin and Los Angeles basins. As a result, we converted approximately 2% of our beginning-of-year proved undeveloped reserves to proved developed reserves during the year, investing approximately $13 million of capital. The total changes to our proved undeveloped reserves during the year ended December 31, 2016 were as follows:
Our year-end development plans and associated proved undeveloped reserves are consistent with SEC guidelines for development within five years. Our conclusion is based on $65 average Brent price over the next five years. Prices that are significantly below this level for a prolonged period could require us to reduce expected capital investment over the next five years, potentially impacting either the quantity or the development timing of proved undeveloped reserves. For example, if the five-year average price remained at current levels, we would need to remove approximately 45 MMBoe from our proved undeveloped reserves.
PV-10, Standardized Measure and Reserves Replacement Ratio
As of December 31, 2016, our standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows (Standardized Measure) was $2.7 billion and PV-10 was over $2.8 billion. In addition, we organically replaced 71% of our proved reserves in 2016.
PV-10 is a non-GAAP financial measure and represents the year-end present value of estimated future cash inflows from proved oil and natural gas reserves, less future development and production costs, discounted at 10% per annum to reflect the timing of future cash flows and using SEC prescribed pricing assumptions for the period. PV-10 differs from Standardized Measure because Standardized Measure includes the effects of future income taxes on future net cash flows. Neither PV-10 nor Standardized Measure should be construed as the fair value of our oil and natural gas reserves. PV-10 and Standardized Measure are used by the industry and by our management as an asset value measure to compare against our past reserves bases and the reserves bases of other business entities because the pricing, cost environment and discount assumptions are prescribed by the SEC and are comparable. PV-10 further facilitates the comparisons to other companies as it is not dependent on the tax-paying status of the entity.
(1)
The organic reserves replacement ratio is calculated for a specified period using the proved oil-equivalent additions from extensions and discoveries, improved recovery and performance-related revisions, divided by oil-equivalent production. There is no guarantee that historical sources of reserves additions will continue as many factors fully or partially outside management's control, including commodity prices, availability of capital and the underlying geology affect reserves additions. Management uses this measure to gauge the results of its capital allocation. Other oil and gas producers may use different methods to calculate replacement ratios, which may affect comparability.
Reserves Evaluation and Review Process
Our estimates of proved reserves and associated future net cash flows as of December 31, 2016 were made by our technical personnel, such as reservoir engineers and geoscientists, with the assistance of operational and financial personnel and are the responsibility of management. The estimation of proved reserves is based on the requirement of reasonable certainty of economic producibility and management's funding commitments to develop the reserves. Reserves volumes are estimated by forecasts of production rates, operating costs and capital investments. Price differentials between specified benchmark prices and realized prices and specifics of each operating agreement are then applied against the SEC Price to estimate the net reserves. Production rate forecasts are derived using a number of methods, including estimates from decline-curve analysis, type-curve analysis, material balance calculations, which take into account the volumes of substances replacing the volumes produced and associated reservoir pressure changes, seismic analysis and computer simulations of reservoir performance. These field-tested technologies have demonstrated reasonably certain results with consistency and repeatability in the formations being evaluated or in analogous formations. Operating and capital costs are forecast using the current cost environment (without accounting for possible cost changes) applied to expectations of future operating and development activities related to the proved reserves.
Net proved developed reserves are those volumes that are expected to be recovered through existing wells with existing equipment and operating methods, for which the incremental cost of any additional required investment is relatively minor. Net proved undeveloped reserves are those volumes that are expected to be recovered from new wells on undrilled acreage, or from existing wells where a relatively major expenditure is required.
Our Vice President, Reserves and Corporate Development has primary responsibility for overseeing the preparation of our reserves estimates. She has over 15 years of experience as an energy sector engineer including as a Senior Reservoir Engineer with Ryder Scott Company, L.P. (Ryder Scott). She is a member of the Society of Petroleum Engineers (SPE) for which she served as past chair of the U.S. Registration Committee. She holds a Master of Business Administration from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, a Master of Engineering in Petroleum Engineering from the University of Houston and a Bachelor of Science from the University of Florida. She is also a registered engineer in the state of Texas.
We have an Oil and Gas Reserves Review Committee (Reserves Committee), consisting of senior corporate officers, which reviewed and approved our oil and natural gas reserves for 2016. The Reserves Committee reports to the Audit Committee during the year.
Audits of Reserves Estimates
Ryder Scott was engaged to provide an independent audit of our 2016 and 2015 reserves estimates for fields that in each year comprised at least 80% of our total proved reserves. Until year end 2014, Ryder Scott conducted process reviews of our properties on behalf of our former parent. The primary technical engineer responsible for our audit has 38 years of petroleum engineering experience, the majority of which has been in the estimation and evaluation of reserves. He serves on the Ryder Scott Board of Directors and is a registered Professional Engineer in the state of Texas.
The 2016 reserves audit included a detailed review of 83% of our total proved reserves. For 2016 and 2015 combined, Ryder Scott audited 94% of our total proved reserves. Ryder Scott examined the assumptions underlying our reserves estimates, adequacy and quality of our work product, and estimates of future production rates, net revenues, and the present value of such net revenues. Ryder Scott also examined the appropriateness of the methodologies employed to estimate our reserves as well as their categorization, using the definitions set forth by the SEC and found them to be appropriate. As part of their process, Ryder Scott developed their own independent estimates of reserves for those fields that they audited. When compared on a field-by-field basis, some of our estimates were greater and some were less than the estimates of Ryder Scott. Given the inherent uncertainties and judgments in estimating proved reserves, differences between our and Ryder Scott's estimates are to be expected. The aggregate difference between our estimates and Ryder Scott's was less than 10%, which was within SPE's acceptable tolerance.
In the conduct of the reserves audit, Ryder Scott did not independently verify the accuracy and completeness of information and data furnished by us with respect to ownership interests, crude oil and natural gas production, well test data, historical costs of operation and development, product prices, or any agreements relating to current and future operations of the fields and sales of production. However, if anything came to Ryder Scott's attention which brought into question the validity or sufficiency of any such information or data, Ryder Scott would not rely on such information or data until it had resolved its questions relating thereto or had independently verified such information or data.
Ryder Scott determined that our estimates of reserves have been prepared in accordance with the definitions and regulations of the SEC as well as the Standards Pertaining to the Estimating and Auditing of Oil and Gas Reserves Information promulgated by the SPE, including the criteria of “reasonable certainty,” as it pertains to expectations about the recoverability of reserves in future years, under existing economic and operating conditions. Ryder Scott issued an unqualified audit opinion on our proved reserves at December 31, 2016. Ryder Scott's report is attached as an exhibit to this Form 10-K.
Determination of Identified Drilling Locations
Proven Drilling Locations
Based on our reserves report as of December 31, 2016, we have approximately 2,350 gross (2,150 net) drilling locations attributable to our proved undeveloped reserves. We use production data and experience gained from our development programs to identify and prioritize this proven drilling inventory. These drilling locations are included in our inventory only after we have adopted a development plan to drill them within a five-year time frame. As a result of rigorous technical evaluation of geologic and engineering data, we can estimate with reasonable certainty that reserves from these locations will be commercially recoverable in accordance with SEC guidelines.
Management considers the availability of local infrastructure, drilling support assets, state and local regulations and other factors it deems relevant in determining such locations.
Unproven Drilling Locations
We have also identified a multi-year inventory of 16,450 gross (15,050 net) drilling locations that are not associated with proved undeveloped reserves but are specifically identified on a field-by-field basis considering the applicable geologic, engineering and production data. We analyze past field development practices and identify analogous drilling opportunities taking into consideration historical production performance, estimated drilling and completion costs, spacing and other performance factors. These drilling locations primarily include (i) infill drilling locations, (ii) additional locations due to field extensions or (iii) potential IOR and EOR project expansions, some of which are currently in the pilot phase across our properties, but have yet to be moved to the proven category. We believe the assumptions and data used to estimate these drilling locations are consistent with established industry practices with well spacing selected based on the type of recovery process we are using.
Exploration Drilling Locations
Our portfolio of prospective drilling locations contains approximately 12,100 gross (5,650 net) unrisked exploration drilling locations in proven reservoirs, the majority of which are located near existing producing fields. We use internally generated information and proprietary geologic models consisting of data from analog plays, 3D seismic data, open hole and mud log data, cores, and reservoir engineering data to help define the extent of the targeted intervals and the potential ability of such intervals to produce commercial quantities of hydrocarbons. Information used to identify exploration locations includes both our own proprietary data, as well as industry data available in the public domain. After defining the potential areal extent of an exploration prospect, we identify our exploration drilling locations within the prospect by applying the well spacing historically utilized for the applicable type of recovery process used in analogous fields.
Prospective Resource Drilling Locations
In addition, we have approximately 6,400 gross (5,300 net) unrisked prospective resource drilling locations identified in the lower Monterey, Kreyenhagen and Moreno unconventional reservoirs based on screening criteria that include geologic and economic considerations and limited production information. Prospective play areas are defined by geologic data consisting of well cuttings, hydrocarbon shows, open-hole well logs, geochemical data, available 3D or 2D seismic data and formation pressure data, where available. Information used to identify our prospective locations includes both our own proprietary data, as well as industry data available in the public domain. We identify our prospective resource drilling locations based on an assumption of 80-acre spacing per well throughout the prospective area for each resource play.
Well Spacing Determination
Our well spacing determinations in the above categories of identified well locations are based on actual operational spacing within our existing producing fields, which we believe are reasonable for the particular recovery process employed (i.e., primary, waterflood or EOR). Due to the significant vertical thickness and multiple stacked reservoirs usually encountered by our drilling wells, typical well spacing is generally less than 20 acres and often 10 acres or less in the majority of our fields unless specified differently above. These parameters also meet the general well spacing restrictions imposed on certain oil and gas fields in California.
Drilling Schedule
Our identified drilling locations have been scheduled as part of our current multi-year drilling schedule or are expected to be scheduled in the future. However, we may not drill our identified sites at the times scheduled or at all. We view the risk profile for our exploration drilling locations and our prospective resource drilling locations as being higher than for our other drilling locations due to relatively less available geologic and production data and drilling history, in particular with respect to our prospective resource locations, which are in unproven geologic plays. We make assumptions about the consistency and accuracy of data when we identify these locations that may prove inaccurate.
Our ability to profitably drill and develop our identified drilling locations depends on a number of variables, including crude oil and natural gas prices, capital availability, costs, drilling results, regulatory approvals, available transportation capacity and other factors. If future drilling results in these projects do not establish sufficient reserves to achieve an economic return, we may curtail drilling or development of these projects. A small portion of the unproven drilling locations may be uneconomic at current prices. For a discussion of the risks associated with our drilling program, see "Risk Factors-Risks Related to Our Business and Industry."
The table below sets forth our total gross identified drilling locations as of December 31, 2016, excluding our prospective drilling locations from new resource plays.
Production, Price and Cost History
Oil, NGLs and natural gas are commodities; therefore, the price that we receive for our production is largely a function of market supply and demand. Product prices are affected by a variety of factors, including changes in consumption patterns, inventory levels, global and local economic conditions, the actions of OPEC and other significant producers and governments, actual or threatened production and refining disruptions, currency exchange rates, worldwide drilling and exploration activities, the effects of conservation, weather, geophysical and technical limitations, refining and processing disruptions, transportation bottlenecks and other matters affecting the supply and demand dynamics for our products, technological advances and regional market conditions; transportation capacity and costs in producing areas; and the effect of changes in these variables on market perceptions. Given the volatile oil price environment, as well as our leverage, we have a hedging program to protect our cash flow and capital investment program and improve our ability to comply with the covenants under our credit facilities in case of price deterioration.
Fixed and Variable Costs
Our total production costs consist of variable costs that tend to vary depending on production levels, and fixed costs that typically do not vary with changes in production levels or well counts, especially in the short term. The substantial majority of our near-term fixed costs become variable over the longer term because we manage them based on the field’s stage of life and operating characteristics. For example, portions of labor and material costs, energy, workovers and maintenance expenditures correlate to well count, production and activity levels. Portions of these same costs can be relatively fixed over the near term; however, they are managed down as fields mature in a manner that correlates to production and commodity price levels. While a certain amount of costs for facilities, surface support, surveillance and related maintenance can be regarded as fixed in the early phases of a program, as the production from a certain area matures, well count increases and daily per well production drops, such support costs can be reduced and consolidated over a larger number of wells, reducing costs per operating well. Further, many of our other costs, such as property taxes and oilfield services, are variable and will respond to activity levels and tend to correlate with commodity prices. Overall, we believe approximately one-third of our operating costs are fixed over the life cycle of our fields. We actively manage our fields to optimize production and costs. When we see growth in a field we increase capacities, and similarly when a field nears the end of its economic life we manage the costs while it remains economically viable to produce.
The following table sets forth information regarding production, realized and benchmark prices, and costs for oil and gas producing activities for the years ended December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014. For additional information on price calculations, see information set forth in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations."
(a)
Natural gas volumes have been converted to Boe based on the equivalence of energy content between six Mcf of natural gas to one Bbl of oil.
(b)
For 2015 and 2014, the amount excludes asset impairment charges of $4.9 billion and $3.4 billion, respectively.
(c)
For 2016, the amount excludes unusual and infrequent charges related to severance and early retirement costs associated with field personnel totaling $0.12 per Boe. For 2015, the amount excludes charges of $0.31 per Boe related to early retirement and severance costs. For 2014, the amount excludes charges of $0.10 per Boe related to Spin-off and transition-related costs.
(d)
For 2016, the amount excludes net unusual and infrequent gains of $0.35 per Boe that include refunds partially offset by plant turnaround charges and other items. For 2015, the amount excludes charges related to the write-down of certain assets and rig termination charges of $1.42 per Boe. For 2014, the amount excludes charges related to rig termination charges and Spin-off and transition-related charges of $0.97 per Boe.
The following table sets forth information regarding production, realized prices and production costs for our largest two fields, Elk Hills and Wilmington, for the years ended December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014:
(a)
Natural gas volumes have been converted to Boe based on the equivalence of energy content between six Mcf of natural gas to one Bbl of oil.
(b)
Excludes the effect of hedges.
(c)
Production costs per Boe for Wilmington are higher than the actual cost to run the field due to the effect of PSCs. The reported production cost per Boe is calculated as total production cost for the entire field over our share of production. Using the total field production, the production costs per Boe would be $17.21, $17.74 and $19.94 for 2016, 2015 and 2014 respectively, which more accurately represent the actual cost of operating this field.
The following table sets forth our reserves and production by basin and recovery mechanism:
(a)
Includes reserves and production from gas injection of 14% and 8%, respectively.
(b)
Subtotal basin reserves in MMBoe.
Productive Wells
Productive wells are those that produce, or are capable of producing, commercial quantities of hydrocarbons, regardless of whether they produce a reasonable rate of return. Net wells represent the sum of fractional interests in wells in which we own an interest. As of December 31, 2016, we had a total of 8,837 gross (7,737 net) producing wells, approximately 90% of which were oil wells. Our average working interest in our producing wells is approximately 88%. Wells are categorized based on the primary product they produce.
The following table sets forth our productive oil and natural gas wells (both producing and capable of production) as of December 31, 2016, excluding wells that have been idle for more than five years:
(a)
The total number of wells in which interests are owned.
(b)
Sum of fractional interests.
(c)
This total represents both producing and capable of producing wells. As of December 31, 2016, we had 2,957 gross (2,726 net) oil wells and 237 gross (208 net) gas wells that are capable of production but currently not producing.
Acreage
The following table sets forth certain information regarding the total developed and undeveloped acreage in which we owned an interest as of December 31, 2016, of which approximately 60% is held in fee, 15% is held by production and 25% are term leases.
(a)
Acres spaced or assigned to productive wells.
(b)
Total acres in which we hold an interest.
(c)
Sum of fractional interests owned based on working interests or interests under arrangements similar to production-sharing contracts.
(d)
Acres on which wells have not been drilled or completed to a point that would permit the production of commercial quantities of oil and natural gas, regardless of whether the acreage contains proved reserves.
Work programs are designed to ensure that the exploration potential of any leased property is fully evaluated before expiration. In some instances, we may relinquish leased acreage in advance of the contractual expiration date if the evaluation process is complete and there is no longer a business basis for leasing that acreage. In cases where we determine we want to take the additional time required to fully evaluate acreage, we have generally been successful in obtaining extensions. The combined net acreage covered by leases expiring in the next three years represents approximately 20% of our total net undeveloped acreage at December 31, 2016 and these expirations would not have a material adverse impact on us. Historically, we have not dedicated any significant portion of our capital program to prevent lease expirations and do not expect we will need to do so in the future.
Participation in Exploratory and Development Wells Being Drilled
The following table sets forth our participation in exploratory and development wells being drilled as of December 31, 2016.
At December 31, 2016, we were developing two steamfloods and three waterfloods. The steamflood projects were located in the San Joaquin basin. Two waterflood projects were located in the San Joaquin basin and one in the Los Angeles basin.
Drilling Activity
The following table describes our drilling activity of net wells for the periods indicated, which represents the sum of fractional interests in wells in which we own an interest. The information should not be considered indicative of future performance, nor should it be assumed that there is necessarily any correlation among the number of productive wells drilled, quantities of reserves found or economic value.
Delivery Commitments
We have made short-term commitments to certain refineries and other buyers to deliver oil, natural gas and NGLs. As of December 31, 2016, we had 30- to 90-day oil delivery commitments ranging from 21 MBbls/d to 48 MBbls/d, gas contracts for 2 Bcf of natural gas under 30-day contracts and NGL commitments for 2 MMBbls of NGLs through March 2017. These are index-based contracts with prices set at the time of delivery. We have significantly more production capacity than the amounts committed for oil and natural gas. We have agreements to purchase third-party NGLs for the shortfall between the committed quantities and our production. Further, we have the ability to secure additional volumes for all products if necessary. None of the commitments are expected to have a material impact on our financial statements.
Our Infrastructure
We own a network of infrastructure that is integral to and significantly complements our operations. Our significant footprint in California and a wide network of fully owned infrastructure helps connect to third party transportation pipelines, provide competitive advantage and reduce our operating costs. Following is a description of our infrastructure:
Gas Processing
We believe we own the largest gas processing system in the state of California. In the San Joaquin basin, our Elk Hills cryogenic gas plant has a capacity of 200 MMcf/d of wellhead gas bringing our total processing capacity in the basin to over 590 MMcf/d. We also own and operate a system of natural gas processing facilities in the Ventura basin that are capable of processing equity wellhead gas from the surrounding areas. Our natural gas processing facilities are interconnected via pipelines to nearby third-party rail and trucking facilities, with access to certain North American NGL markets. In addition, we have truck rack facilities coupled with a battery of pressurized storage tanks at our Elk Hills natural gas processing facility for NGL sales to third parties.
Electricity
We generate all of our electricity needs for our Elk Hills and contiguous operations in the San Joaquin basin, which utilize approximately a third of the capacity of our wholly owned 550 megawatt combined-cycle power plant located adjacent to our Elk Hills processing facilities, and sell the excess. Our Elk Hills power plant also provides primary steam supply to our cryogenic gas plant. We also operate a 45 megawatt cogeneration facility at Elk Hills that provides additional flexibility and reliability to support field operations. Within our Long Beach operations in the Los Angeles basin, we operate a 48 megawatt power generating facility that provides over 40% of the Long Beach operation’s electricity requirements. All of these facilities are integrated with our operations to improve their reliability and performance while reducing operating costs.
Steam Infrastructure
We own, control and operate all of our steam generation infrastructure in the San Joaquin basin, including steam generators, steam plants, steam distribution systems, steam injection lines and headers, water softeners and water disposal systems. We soften and self-supply water to generate steam, reducing our operating costs. This infrastructure is integral to our operations in San Joaquin basin and supports our high margin and shallow to medium depth oil fields such as Kern Front and Lost Hills.
Gathering Systems
We own an extensive network of over 20,000 miles of oil and gas gathering lines. These gathering lines are dedicated almost entirely to collecting our oil and gas production and are in close proximity to field specific facilities such as tank settings or central processing sites. These lines connect our producing wells and facilities to gathering networks, natural gas collection and compression systems, and water and steam processing, injection and distribution systems. Our oil gathering lines connect to multiple third-party transportation pipelines, which increases our flexibility to ship to various parties. In addition, virtually all of our natural gas facilities connect with major third-party natural gas pipeline systems. As a result of these connections, we typically have the ability to access multiple delivery points to improve the prices we obtain for our oil and natural gas production.
Oil and NGL Storage
Our tank storage capacity throughout California gives us the flexibility to store crude oil and NGLs in the event of third-party pipeline maintenance or disruptions. Our network of tank batteries allows us to continue production and avoid or delay any field shutdowns.
ITEM 3