Item 2. Properties
Our principal executive offices are located at 223 De La Cruz Road, Pasay, Metro Manila Philippines. Our telephone number is +(63)(914)2699345.
Palayan Gold Claim Property
Location and Access
The Palayan Gold Claim consists of an 82.7 hectare, eight-unit claim block located near Nueve Ecija, the Philippines, at 15 degrees 53’ 33’ north, 121 degrees 08’ 33’’ east.
Description of Claim
The mineral claim was assigned to us by Verdasco Enterprises LLC (an unrelated company) and the said assignment was filed with the Mines and Geosciences Bureau (MGB) of the Department of Environment and Natural Resources of the Philippines (DENR). We own 100% of this claim with no encumbrance on the claim.
There are no known environmental concerns or parks designated for any area contained within the claims. As advanced exploration proceeds there may be bonding requirements for reclamation.
The primary identifying information of the Palayan Gold Claim is a Parcel Identifier as registered with the Department of Environmental and Natural Resources - Mines and Geosciences. The Parcel Identifier of the Palayan Gold Claim is 217-119-862 as recorded both with the above authority and the Office of the Register of Land Title for the Province of Nueva Ecija. The area of the claim is 82.7 hectares. In order to obtain a mining license in the Philippines, an applicant company must apply with the Department of Environment and Natural Resources - Mines and Geosciences. The above authority then conducts a search of the local titles office and its own records to verify that the applicant company is the owner and rights holder of the claim. Once that has been verified, the Department of Environment and Natural Resources - Mines and Geosciences issues a license and permit for Mining and Exploration. The license usually takes seven to ten business days to obtain and is valid for one year.
Except as described above, there are no material terms of the land or mineral rights securing agreements with respect to the Palayan Gold Claim.
The mining license described above is the only permit in order to explore or mine the Palayan Gold Claim.
A map of the Palayan Gold Claim is set forth below:
Royalty Obligations and Other Underlying Agreements
None.
Accessibility, Climate, Local Resources, Infrastructure, and Topography
The Palayan Gold Claim is located approximately 10 km southwest of Palayan City, the capital of Nueva Ecija province in the Philippines. It is about 12 km northwest of the city of Cabanatuan, and Manila is a five-hour drive away.
Palayan City is classified as Type 2 climate zone characterized by distinct dry and wet seasons. Rainy season typically starts from May to early December with peak rainfall in the months of July and August. The average amount of rain is 1,597 mm annually and peaks to around 3,304 mm in the month of August. Average temperatures range from 22 degrees to 36 degrees Celsius. We anticipate that exploration work and production, if any, can be carried out throughout the year, although production, if any, may be slower during heavy monsoon rains.
Transportation infrastructure in the area is modern and developed in that there is a network of all-weather roads, highways, and bridges, that make the Palayan Gold Claim highly accessible.
There have been confirmed reports that communist rebels have been sighted near the borders of Nueva Vizcaya, Nueva Ecija and Aurora provinces, near Kasibu town where a number of mining exploration activities are ongoing. The New People’s Army, the armed wing of the Communist Party of the Philippines has made threats to mining companies, which they view as exploiting the country’s natural resources. The Philippine Army has given assurances that they will protect mining companies from communist guerillas. However, there can be no assurance that the Philippine Army will be able to do so.
General Geology and Topography
The lithology of the area in which the Palayan Gold Claim is located is composed of alluvium deposits formed by the Agno River.
The Palayan Gold Claim sits atop a bedrock of native gold occurrences and numerous relatively small alluvial gold deposits. Mineralization was discovered in the area in the early 1920’s and since then has been the site of multiple small to mid-scale placer operations. Alluvial gold deposits appear to be widespread in the region and these types of deposits have been the main target of small-scale individual miners. Native gold is readily panned from the surrounding areas, generally in areas of minor excavations and mine workings and also from creeks. Grains of native gold up to 4 mm in size have been observed in rock samples from the project.
Present Condition of the Property and Current State of Exploration
We are still in the process of attempting to raise capital in order to implement Phase 1 exploration work on the Palayan Gold Claim. There has been no previous work on the Palayan Gold Claim including any attempts to drill. Records indicate that no detailed exploration has been completed on the Palayan Gold Claim.
Geological Setting
Regional Geology of the Area
The following are the main stratigraphic units in the region.
Caraballo Formation
Pantabangan Formation
Guadalupe Formation
Caraballo Formation
The Caraballo Formation is located in the northeastern part of San Jose City, Nueva Ecija. It is the most extensively exposed rocks in the Northern Sierra Madre, previously designated as Caraballo Group, and subdivided into Formations I, II and III. This formation is composed of a proximal and distal volcano-sedimentary facies and is dated in the Late Cretaceous to Late Eocene which is widely distributed in the Caraballo Mountains.
The distal facies of the Caraballo Formation are well-exposed along the eastern side of the Northern Sierra Madre range, in Divilacan Bay, west and south of Dinapique, south and east of San Ildefonso Peninsula and north of Dingalan. These facies consists of well bedded red and green mudstones, siltstones, sandstones, and pyroclastic rocks, with occasional fragmental flows and conglomerates. On the western side of the northern Sierra Madre, from San Jose to Digdig, Nueva Ecija, red and green siltstones and mudstones are overlain by gray to black tuffs and conglomerates which coarsen upwards and become intercalated with pillow basalts.
Pantabangan Formation
The Pantabangan Formation is facing the highlands located east of San Jose City, Nueva Ecija. This formation is a series of sandstone, mudstone and polymictic conglomerates forming the gently rolling hills in the area of Pantabangan Basin. A uniqueness separates this formation from the underlying Palali and Santa Fe formations.
An increase in the amount of conglomerates towards the south and east suggests its origin from this direction. The formation is believed to be partly equivalent to the PlioPleistocene Ilagan Formation of the Cagayan Valley Basin. A dating of 1.3 Ma (Pleistocene) for a biotite extracted from an andesite intruding the Pantabangan Formation was found. Furthermore, correlation of this formation to the Tartar Formation on the western flank of the Southern Sierra Madre dates as PlioPleistocene from benthonic foraminifera. It is estimated to attain a thickness of 1000m.
Guadalupe Formation
The Guadalupe Formation is found beneath the highland eastern parts of Cabanatuan City, Nueva Ecija. It has been called the Guadalupe Tuffs or the Guadalupe Formation with a lower Alat Conglomerate member and an upper Diliman Tuff member. The formation overlies Miocene rocks and on the basis of the presence of Stegodon fossils and other vertebrates remains, leaf imprints and artifacts, it is assigned a Pleistocene age.
The Alat Conglomerate was first mapped and named by Alvir after marine littoral conglomerate exposed along Sapang Alat about 3 km north of the Novaliches reservoir near Novaliches town where it overlies Miocene lavas. The Alat consists of massive conglomerate, deeply weathered silty mudstone and tuffaceous sandstone. The most common rock type, the poorly sorted conglomerate, consists of well-rounded pebbles and small boulders of the underlying igneous, metamorphic and sedimentary rocks cemented by a coarse-grained, calcareous sandy matrix. The interbedded sandstone is massive to poorly-bedded, tuffaceous fine - to medium grained, loosely-cemented, friable and exhibits cross bedding. The mudstone is medium to thin bedded, soft, sticky, silty and tuffaceous. The maximum estimated thickness of this member is 200 m.
The whole series is flat-lying, medium to thin bedded and consists of fine grained vitric tuffs and welded pyroclastic breccias with minor fine to medium grained tuffaceous sandstone. Dark mafic minerals and bits of pumiceous and scoriaceous materials are dispersed in the glassy tuff matrix. The thickness of the Diliman Tuff is 1,300-2,000 m.
Tectonic Setting
The major structural element recognized in the area of Nueva Ecija is the Dingalan Cabaldon Rift which is part of the Philippine Fault. The fault appears to be the major factor that influences the formation of Gabaldon Valley. It trends N 40°W and branches out into numerous secondary faults of minor magnitude that the northeastern part, cutting the Cretaceous-Paleogene rock series. These secondary faults appear to have sliced the rocks into a series of parallel fault blocks. The orientation of these faults, together with the schistocity and fold axes appears to be closely related to the major northwest structure.
The Philippine Fault Zone is a major left-lateral strike-slip fault zone that has a mapped length of 1,200 km from the eastern part of Mindanao to Northern Luzon. Slip on the Philippine Fault Zone accommodates a significant portion of oblique convergence between the Philippine Sea and Eurasian Plates. The Philippine Fault Zone trends northwest from Dingalan Bay just east of Gabaldon to the southern end of the Central Cordillera. Northwest of Gabaldon, the Philippine Fault splays into the Digdig Fault and the San Jose Fault The convergence rate of the Philippine Plate relative to Eurasia falls in the range of 8.0 cm/yr. The movement is accommodated on three main parallel zones:
The westward verging subduction zones running through the Taiwan Mindoro-Panay trenches
The Philippine Plate at the eastern side, subducting westward along the Philippine Trench; and
In between the two, the Philippine Fault, an active left-lateral strike-slip which runs from Southern Mindanao to Northern Luzon.
The subduction at the Philippine Trench and the Philippine Fault are young features, initiated in late Early Pliocene, probably in response to increasing blockage by collisions along Eurasia's boundary. Most of the oblique convergence would have since been partitioned between the two structures.
In Luzon, the South China Sea plate is subducted eastward along the Manila Trench while at the eastern side; the Philippine Trench is indented by the Benham Rise. A strike slip fault zone along the East Luzon Trough, borders the latter. The area of Northern Luzon is wedged and compressed by the two opposing subduction zones.
Mineralization
No mineralization has been reported for the area of the property but structures and shear zones affiliated with mineralization on adjacent properties pass through it.
Exploration
Previous exploration work has not included any attempt to drill the structure on the Palayan Gold Claim. Records indicate that no detailed exploration has been completed on the property.
Drilling Summary
No drilling has been reported on the Palayan Gold Claim.
Sampling Method, Sample Preparation, Data Verification
All the exploration conducted to date has been conducted according to modernly accepted exploration procedures, methods and practices. Preliminary samples have also been prepared in ways that adhere to current procedures. No comment as to the quality of the samples taken can be presented. Appropriate measures of quality control were in place, though no comment can be made on the lack of any additional measure of such controls.
Report Recommendations
At the present time, the exact mineralization of the Palayan Gold Mine has not been sufficiently explored as previous work has been inconsistent and limited. A two-phased, intensive exploration program to further determine the production potential, if any, of the Palayan Gold Claim is recommended.
The first phase would consist of
Aerial photography to locate structures and understand the topography;
Detailed geological mapping of the region in addition to the Palayan Gold Claim in order to more broadly understand its geological setting;
Geophysical survey using magnetic and electromagnetic instrumentation of both the region and main area for exploration; and
Geochemical soil sample of the Palayan Gold Claim to determine areas of most significant mineral wealth and more exactly determine the mineralization of the site.
Phase 1 exploration work should determine the exact mineralization of the property and whether Phase 2 work, consisting of geochemical surveying and surface sampling, is justifiable.
Budget
The proposed budget for the recommended work is PHP 840,327 (approximately $19,260) as follows (in order of priority)
Operations
Cost (PHP)
Estimated Timeframe
Phase I
Geological Mapping
256,851
3 to 5 weeks from
beginning of operation
Geophysical Surveying
130,500
5 to 6 weeks from
beginning of operation
Phase II
Geochemical surveying and surface sampling
(includes sample collection and assaying)
452,576
3 to 4 months from
beginning of operation
Total of Phases I &II
840,327
We currently do not have the necessary funding to complete both phases above. We believe that sufficient funding will be available from additional borrowings and private placements to meet our business objectives, including anticipated cash needs for working capital, for a reasonable period of time. However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain sufficient funds to continue the development of our business operation, or if obtained, upon terms favorable to us.
Glossary of Mining Terms
Amphibolite
a class of metamorphic rock composed mainly of amphibole with some quartz.
Anorthosite
a phaneritic, intrusive igneous rock characterized by a predominance of plagioclase feldspar.
Aplite
a fine-grained granitic rock composed mostly of quartz and feldspars.
Argillite
a rock derived either from siltstone, claystone or shale that has undergone a somewhat higher degree of induration than is present in those rocks.
Auriferous
refers to gold (AU) or gold equivalents (AUEQ).
Basalt
a hard rock of varied mineral content; volcanic in origin, it makes up much of the Earth’s crust.
Bauxite
the principal ore of aluminum; a clay-like mineral, being a mixture of hydrated oxides and hydroxides.
Caldera
a large circular volcanic depression often originating due to collapse.
Charnockites
any orthopyroxene-bearing granite, composed mainly of quartz, perthite or antiperthite and orthopyroxene (usually hypersthene), as an end-member of the charnockite series .
Chert
massive, dull-colored and opaque quartzite, hornstone, impure chalcedony or other flint-like mineral. By general usage in mineralogy and geology, a chert does not have a conchoidal fracture. In North American archeology the term chert occasionally is still used for various siliceous minerals (including flint) that have a conchoidal fracture; this leads to confusion between the terms flint and chert in some archeology texts.
Clay
a mineral substance made up of small crystals of silica and alumina, that is ductile when moist; the material of pre-fired ceramics; an earth material with ductile qualities.
Clinopyroxene
any pyroxene that has a monoclinic crystal structure.
Coal
a readily combustible black or brownish-black sedimentary rock normally occurring in rock strata in layers or veins called coal beds. The harder forms, such as anthracite coal, can be regarded as metamorphic rock because of later exposure to elevated temperature and pressure. Coal is composed primarily of carbon along with variable quantities of other elements, chiefly sulfur, hydrogen, oxygen and nitrogen.
Copper
a chemical element with the symbol Cu (Latin: cuprum) and atomic number 29. It is a ductile metal with very high thermal and electrical conductivity. Pure copper is rather soft and malleable, and a freshly-exposed surface has a pinkish or peachy color.
Cretaceous age
a geological period and system from 145 to 65 million years ago.
Crystalline
a solid material, whose constituent atoms, molecules, or ions are arranged in an orderly repeating pattern extending in all three spatial dimensions; ie. crystals.
Dolerite
A fine-grained basaltic rock.
Dynamothermal
rock formed at variable temperatures.
Extrusive
the mode of igneous volcanic rock formation in which hot magma from inside the Earth flows out (extrudes) onto the surface as lava or explodes violently into the atmosphere to fall back as pyroclastics or tuff. This is opposed to intrusive rock formation, in which magma does not reach the surface. The main effect of extrusion is that the magma can cool much more quickly in the open air or under seawater, and there is little time for the growth of crystals. Often, a residual portion of the matrix fails to crystallize at all, instead becoming an interstitial natural glass or obsidian.
Fault
a break in the continuity of a body of rock. It is accompanied by a movement on one side of the break or the other so that what were once parts of one continuous rock stratum or vein are now separated. The amount of displacement of the parts may range from a few inches to thousands of feet.
Feldspar
any of a large group of rock-forming minerals that, together, make up about 60% of the earth’s outer crust. The feldspars are all aluminum silicates of the alkali metals sodium, potassium, calcium and barium. Feldspars are the principal constituents of igneous and plutonic rocks.
Flatmake
flat-dipping fractures.
Fold
a curve or bend of a planar structure such as rock stata, bedding planes, foliation, or cleavage.
Foliation
A general term for a planar arrangement of textural or structural features in any type of rock; esp., the planar structure that results from flattening of the constituent grains of a metamorphic rock.
Formation
a distinct layer of sedimentary rock of similar composition.
Gabbro
a group of dark-colored, basic intrusive igneous rocks composed principally of basic plagioclase (commonly labradorite or bytownite) and clinopyroxene (augite), with or without olivine and orthopyroxene; also, any member of that group. It is the approximate intrusive equivalent of basalt. Apatite and magnetite or ilmenite are common accessory minerals.
Gneiss
a foliated rock formed by regional metamorphism, in which bands or lens-shaped strata or bodies of rock of granular minerals alternate with bands or lens-shaped strata or bodies or rock in which minerals having flaky or elongate prismatic habits predominate.
Gold
chemical element with the symbol Au (from Latin: aurum, “shining dawn”) and an atomic number of 79. It has been a highly sought-after precious metal for coinage, jewelry, and other arts since the beginning of recorded history. The metal occurs as nuggets or grains in rocks, in veins and in alluvial deposits. Gold is dense, soft, shiny and the most malleable and ductile pure metal known. Pure gold has a bright yellow color and luster traditionally considered attractive, which it maintains without oxidizing in air or water. Gold is one of the coinage metals and has served as a symbol of wealth and a store of value throughout history. Gold standards have provided a basis for monetary policies. It also has been linked to a variety of symbolisms and ideologies.
Granite
highly felsic igneous plutonic rock, typically light in color; rough plutonic equivalent of rhyolite. Granite is actually quite rare in the U.S.; often the term is applied to any quartz- bearing plutonic rock.
Granodiorite
a group of coarse-grained plutonic rocks intermediate in composition between quartz diorite and quartz monzonite, and potassium feldspar, with biotite, hornblende, or more rarely, pyroxene, as the mafic component.
Granulite
fine to medium-grained metamorphic rocks that have experienced high temperatures of metamorphism, composed mainly of feldspars sometimes associated with quartz and anhydrous ferromagnesian minerals, with granoblastic texture and gneissose to massive structure. They are of particular interest to geologists because many granulites represent samples of the deep continental crust. Some granulites experienced decompression from deep in the Earth to shallower crustal levels at high temperature; others cooled while remaining at depth in the Earth.
Graphite
one of the allotropes of carbon. Unlike diamond (another carbon allotrope), graphite is an electrical conductor, a semimetal, and can be used, for instance, in the electrodes of an arc lamp. Graphite holds the distinction of being the most stable form of carbon under standard conditions.
Gypsum
a mineral consisting of the hydrated calcium sulphate. When calcined, it forms plaster of Paris.
Heavy mineral sands ore deposits a class of ore deposit which is an important source of zirconium, titanium, thorium, tungsten, rare earth elements, the industrial minerals diamond, sapphire, garnet, and occasionally precious metals or gemstones. Heavy mineral sands are placer deposits formed most usually in beach environments by concentration due to the specific gravity of the mineral grains. It is equally likely that some concentrations of heavy minerals (aside from the usual gold placers) exist within streambeds, but most are of a low grade and are relatively small.
Hydrothermal
creation of rock with fluid at high temperatures.
Igneous
resulting from, or produced by, the action of great heat; with rocks, it could also mean formed from lava/magma; granite and basalt are igneous rocks.
Intrusions
masses of igneous rock that, while molten, were forced into other rocks.
Iron
chemical element with the symbol Fe (Latin: ferrum) and atomic number 26. It is a metal in the first transition series. Like other group 8 elements, it exists in a wide range of oxidation states. Iron and iron alloys (steels) are by far the most common metals and the most common ferromagnetic materials in everyday use. Fresh iron surfaces appear lustrous silvery-gray, but oxidize in air. Iron is the most common element in the earth, albeit the fourth most common one in the earth’s crust.
Khondalite
a granulite-facies metasedimentary rock.
Laterite
a red hard or gravel-like soil or subsoil formed in the tropics that has been leached of soluble minerals leaving insoluble iron and aluminium oxides and hydroxides; used to make bricks and roads.
Leptynite
a granulite.
Lignite
a low-grade, brownish-black coal.
Limestone
An abundant rock of marine and fresh-water sediments; primarily composed of calcite (calcium carbonate); it occurs in a variety of forms, both crystalline and amorphous.
Marble
a non foliated metamorphic rock composed mostly of calcite, a crystalline form of calcium carbonate. It is formed from carbonate rocks, often limestone. It is extensively used for sculpture and as a building material.
Magnetite
a ferrimagnetic mineral with chemical formula Fe3O 4, one of several iron oxides and a member of the spinel group.
Metamorphic
the mineralogical, chemical, and structural adjustment of solid rocks to physical and chemical conditions that have generally been imposed at depth below the surface zones of weathering and cementation, and that differ from the conditions under which the rocks in question originated.
Metasediment
a metamorphosed sedimentary rock.
Mica
the name of a group of hydrous aluminosilicate minerals characterized by highly perfect cleavage, so that they readily separate into very thin leaves, more or less elastic.
Monzonite
an intermediate igneous intrusive rock composed of approximately equal amounts of sodic to intermediate plagioclase and orthoclase feldspars with minor amounts of hornblende, biotite and other minerals.
Ore
the natural occurring mineral from which a mineral or minerals of economic value can be extracted profitable or to satisfy social or political objectives.
Oxides
a chemical compound containing at least one oxygen atom as well as at least one other element. Most of the Earth’s crust consists of oxides. Oxides result when elements are oxidized by oxygen in air.
Paragneisses
a gneiss from sedimentary rock.
Pegmatite
a very coarse-grained, intrusive igneous rock composed of interlocking grains usually larger than 2.5 cm in size; such rocks are referred to as pegmatitic. Most pegmatites are composed of quartz, feldspar and mica; in essence a granite. Rarer intermediate composition and mafic pegmatites containing amphibole, Ca-plagioclase feldspar, pyroxene and other minerals are known, found in recrystallised zones and apophyses associated with large layered intrusions.
Phosphatic nodules
black to brown, rounded mass, variable in size from a few millimeters to 30 or more centimeters. Usually consists of coprolites, corals, shells, and bones, more or less enveloped in crusts of collophane. Found in many horizons of marine origin. Also covering the ocean floors at manylocations around the world.
Placers
an accumulation of valuable minerals formed by deposition of dense mineral phases in a trap site.
Precious metals
a rare, naturally occurring metallic chemical element of high economic value, which is not radioactive (excluding natural polonium, radium, actinium and protactinium). Chemically, the precious metals are less reactive than most elements, have high lustre, are softer or more ductile, and have higher melting points than other metals. Historically, precious metals were important as currency, but are now regarded mainly as investment and industrial commodities. Gold, silver, platinum, and palladium each have an ISO 4217 currency code.
Production
a “production stage” project is actively engaged in the process of extraction and beneficiation of mineral reserves to produce a marketable metal or mineral product.
Pyrite
a yellow iron sulphide mineral of little value and referred to as “fool’s gold”.
Pyrrhotite
a bronze-colored, magnetic iron sulphide mineral.
Quartz
a common rock-forming mineral consisting of silicon and oxygen.
Quartzite
a hard metamorphic rock which was originally sandstone. Sandstone is converted into quartzite through heating and pressure usually related to tectonic compression within orogenic belts. Pure quartzite is usually white to grey, though quartzites often occur in various shades of pink and red due to varying amounts of iron oxide. Other colors, such as yellow and orange, are due to other mineral impurities.
Reserve
the term “reserve” refers to that part of a mineral deposit which could be economically and legally extracted or produced at the time of the reserve determination. Reserves must be supported by a feasibility study done to bankable standards that demonstrates the economic extraction. (“Bankable standards” implies that the confidence attached to the costs and achievements developed in the study is sufficient for the project to be eligible for external debt financing.) A reserve includes adjustments to the in-situ tons and grade to include diluting materials and allowances for losses that might occur when the material is mined.
Schist
any crystalline rock having a foliated structure and hence admitting of ready division into slabs or slates.
Shear
a form of strain resulting from stresses that cause or tend to cause contiguous parts of a body of rock to slide relatively to each other in a direction parallel to their plane of contact.
Silica
the chemical compound silicon dioxide, also known as silica (from the Latin silex), is an oxide of silicon with a chemical formula of SiO 2 and has been known for its hardness since antiquity. Silica is most commonly found in nature as sand or quartz, as well as in the cell walls of diatoms. Silica is the most abundant mineral in the Earth’s crust.
Stockwork
a complex system of structurally controlled or randomly oriented veins. Stockworks are common in many ore deposit types and especially notable in greisens. They are also referred to as stringer zones.
Stratum
one of several parallel horizontal layers of material arranged one on top of another. A layer of sedimentary rock having approximately the same composition throughout
Sulphides
an anion of sulfur in its lowest oxidation number of −2. Sulfide is also a slightly archaic term for thioethers, a common type of organosulfur compound that are well known for their bad odors.
Telluride
a compound of a metal with tellurium; metal salts of tellurane. Any organic compound of general formula R 2 Te (R not = H), the tellurium analogues of ethers. Another name for sylvanite.
Tonalite
an igneous, plutonic (intrusive) rock, of felsic composition, with phaneritic texture. Feldspar is present as plagioclase (typically oligoclase or andesine) with 10% or less alkali feldspar. Quartz is present as more than 20% of the rock. Amphiboles and pyroxenes are common accessory minerals.
Vein
a thin, sheet-like body of hydrothermal mineralization, principally quartz.
Wollastonite
a calcium inosilicate mineral (CaSiO3) that may contain small amounts of iron, magnesium, and manganese substituting for calcium. It is usually white. It forms when impure limestone or dolostone is subjected to high temperature and pressure sometimes in the presence of silica-bearing fluids as in skarns or contact metamorphic rocks. Associated minerals include garnets, vesuvianite, diopside, tremolite, epidote, plagioclase feldspar, pyroxene and calcite. It is named after the English chemist and mineralogist William Hyde Wollaston (1766-1828).
Item 3.