Item 2. Properties
We lease our headquarters located at 200 S. Orange Avenue, Suite 2700, Orlando, Florida 32801.
Hotel Properties
As of December 31, 2017, we owned a portfolio of 39 operating hotels, 37 of which are wholly owned, comprising 11,533 rooms, including a 75% ownership interest in two hotels owned through two consolidated real estate entities across 18 states and the District of Columbia. We believe our portfolio of hotels is geographically diverse as our management team has implemented and executed a strategy of acquiring premium full service and lifestyle hotels primarily in the Top 25 Markets and key leisure destinations in the U.S.
Our Brand Affiliations
Our portfolio of hotels primarily operates under premium brands, with approximately 82% of our rooms operating under Marriott, Hyatt or Kimpton brands. The following table sets forth our brand affiliations as of December 31, 2017:
Our Hotels
The following table provides a list of our portfolio as of December 31, 2017(1):
(1)
Includes only the hotels in our portfolio as of December 31, 2017. See "Basis of Presentation."
(2)
"Aston" refers to an affiliate of Aqua-Aston Hospitality; "Davidson" refers to Davidson Hotel Company LLC; "Fairmont" refers to Fairmont Hotels & Resorts (U.S.) Inc.; "Hyatt" refers to Hyatt Corporation; "Kessler" refers to Kessler Collection Management, LLC; "Kimpton" refers to Kimpton Hotel & Restaurant Group, LLC; "Loews" refers to Loews New Orleans Hotel Corp.; "Marriott" refers to Marriott Hotel Services, Inc.; "Renaissance" refers to Renaissance Hotel Operating Company; "Residence Inn" refers to Residence Inn by Marriott, LLC.; "Sage" refers to affiliates of Sage Hospitality Resources, LLC, "Urgo" refers to Urgo Hotels LP; and "Westin" refers to Westin Operator, LLC.
(3)
"L" refers to Luxury; "UU" refers to Upper Upscale; "U" refers to Upscale; "I" refers to Independent.
(4)
This property is subject to mortgage debt at December 31, 2017.
(5)
This hotel is subject to a ground lease that covers all or part of the land underlying the hotel. See "Part I-Item 2. Properties - Our Principal Agreements- Ground Leases" for more information.
(6)
The Company owns a 75% interest in the hotel, which is consolidated as a variable interest entity in our financial statements.
Our Principal Agreements
Hotel Management and Franchise Agreements
In order to maintain our qualification as a REIT, we cannot directly or indirectly operate any of our hotels. We lease each of our 39 hotels to TRS lessees, which in turn engage property managers to manage our hotels. Each of our hotels is operated pursuant to a hotel management agreement with an independent hotel management company. Approximately 23% of our hotels (based on the number owned as of December 31, 2017), which we refer to as "franchised hotels" are also operated under distinct franchise agreements, a few of which are with an affiliate of the hotel’s management company. Approximately 74% of our hotels (based on the number owned as of December 31, 2017) receive the benefit pursuant to the hotel’s management agreement, which we refer to as "brand-managed hotels."
Below is a general overview of the management and franchise agreements for our hotels, summarizing the principal terms found in each type of agreement.
Management Agreements for Brand-Managed Hotels
Pursuant to our management agreements for brand-managed hotels, the management company controls the day-to-day operations of each hotel, and we are granted limited approval rights with respect to certain of the management company’s actions, including entering into long-term or high value contracts, engaging in certain actions relating to legal proceedings, approving the operating budget, making certain capital expenditures and approving the hiring of certain management personnel.
We are provided with a variety of services and benefits, including the right to use the name, marks and system of operation of a brand affiliated with the management company, as well as centralized reservation systems, national advertising, marketing programs and publicity designed to increase brand awareness, training of personnel and payroll and accounting services.
Of our brand-managed hotels, approximately 48% of our hotels (by room count as of December 31, 2017) are managed by Marriott, approximately 26% are managed by Hyatt, approximately 11% are managed by Kimpton, and the rest are managed by management companies affiliated with a variety of other brands.
Term
The majority of our management agreements for brand-managed hotels contain an initial term of between 20 to 30 years, and have an average remaining term of approximately 11 years, assuming no renewal options are exercised by the management company. These agreements generally allow for one or more renewal periods at the option of the management company. Including the exercise of all renewal options the average remaining term of our management agreements is approximately 25 years.
Fees
Our management agreements for brand-managed hotels typically contain a two-tiered fee structure, wherein the management company receives a base management fee and, if certain financial thresholds are met or exceeded, an incentive management fee. The base management fee is typically 3.0% of gross hotel revenues or receipts, but ranges from 2.0% to 7.0%, the highest of which also include fees for additional non-management services. The incentive management fees range from 10% to 35% of net operating income (or other similar metric, as defined in the management agreement) remaining after deducting a priority return typically equal to 10% to 11% of our total capital investment in the hotel. We also pay certain accounting services fees to the management companies in a majority of the agreements. Many management agreements also require the maintenance of a capital reserve fund ranging between 3% and 5% of hotel revenues to be used for capital expenditures to maintain the quality of the hotels.
Termination Events
Performance Termination
Most of our management agreements for our brand-managed hotels align our interests with those of the management company by providing us with a right to terminate the agreement if the management company fails to achieve certain criteria relating to the performance of the hotel. We generally may initiate a performance termination if, during any two consecutive year period, (i) the hotel fails to achieve a specified amount of operating profit, and (ii) certain operating metrics of the hotel, as compared to a competitive set of hotels in the relevant local market as agreed between the parties, fail to exceed a specified threshold as set forth in the applicable management agreement. In substantially all of the management agreements for brand-managed hotels, the management company has a right to avoid a performance termination by paying an amount equal to the amount by which the operating profit for the two-year period was less than the performance termination threshold, as set forth in the applicable management agreement.
Early Termination and Liquidated Damages
Subject to certain qualifications, notice requirements and applicable cure periods, the management agreements for our brand-managed hotels are generally terminable by either party upon a material casualty or condemnation of the hotel or the occurrence of certain customary events of default, including, among others: the bankruptcy or insolvency of either party; the failure of either party to make a payment when due, and failure to cure such non-payment after due notice; or breach by either party of covenants or obligations under the management agreement.
Additionally, the management company typically has the right to terminate the management agreement in certain situations, including the occurrence of certain actions with respect to the mortgage or our interference with the management company’s ability to operate the hotel by failing to approve required capital improvements or expenditures or by failing to complete or commence required repairs after damage or destruction to the hotel. Most of our agreements do not require payment of liquidated damages in the event of an early termination; however, our Marriott brand-managed hotels require us to establish a reserve fund out of gross revenues to be used in the event of a termination. The fund is to be used to reimburse the management company for all costs and expenses incurred by the management company that relate to (i) the operation of the hotel prior to termination but that accrue after termination, (ii) the management company terminating its employees and/or (iii) the payment of any pending or contingent claims, depending on the agreement.
Sale of a Hotel
Our management agreements for our brand-managed hotels generally provide that we cannot sell a hotel to a person who: (i) does not have sufficient financial resources, (ii) is of bad moral character, (iii) is a competitor, or (iv) is a specially designated national or blocked person, as set forth in the applicable management agreement. Under most agreements, we will default if we proceed with a sale without the management company’s consent and the assignment of the hotel’s management agreement. Some of the agreements provide that our sale or transfer of the hotel to an affiliate does not require us to obtain the consent of the management company.
Management Agreements for Franchised Hotels
Our franchised hotels are managed by various third party management companies, which are either independent or are affiliated with a hotel’s brand. As in our management agreements for brand-managed hotels, the management company controls the day-to-day operations of each hotel, and we are granted limited approval rights with respect to certain of the management company’s actions, including entering into long-term or high value contracts, engaging in certain actions relating to legal proceedings, approving the operating budget, making certain capital expenditures and the hiring of certain management personnel.
Term
Our management agreements for franchised hotels generally contain initial terms between seven and 15 years with an average remaining initial term of approximately six years. Almost all of these agreements either do not contemplate a renewal or extension of the initial term or cannot be extended without our consent, and the rest may be extended at the option of the management company if certain conditions are met. Assuming all renewal or extension options are exercised, the average remaining term is approximately seven years.
Fees
Generally, the management agreements for franchised hotels contain a two-tiered fee structure in which the management company receives a base management fee and, if certain financial thresholds are met or exceeded, an incentive management
fee, each calculated on a per hotel basis. The base management fees range from 2% to 3% of gross hotel revenue, with some base fees increasing over time. Almost all of the incentive management fees range from 15% to 30% of net operating income (or other similar metric, as defined in the management agreement) remaining after deducting a priority return typically equal to 9% to 11% of our total capital investment in the hotel. We also pay certain accounting services fees to the management companies under a majority of the agreements.
Termination Events
Performance Termination
As with our management agreements for brand-managed hotels, most of the management agreements for franchised hotels provide us with a right to terminate the agreement if the management company fails to achieve certain criteria relating to the performance of the hotel. Generally, we may initiate a performance termination if, during any two consecutive year period, (i) the hotel fails to achieve a specified amount of operating profit, and (ii) certain operating metrics of the hotel, as compared to a competitive set of hotels in the relevant local market as agreed between the parties, fail to exceed a specified threshold as set forth in the applicable management agreement. In some of the management agreements for franchised hotels, the management company has a right, which can usually be exercised no more than once per hotel, to avoid a performance termination by paying an amount specified in the applicable management agreement.
Early Termination and Liquidated Damages
Subject to certain qualifications, notice requirements and applicable cure periods, the management agreements for franchised hotels are generally terminable by either party upon a material casualty or condemnation of the hotel or the occurrence of certain customary events of default, including, among others: the bankruptcy or insolvency of either party; a breach by either party of covenants or obligations under the management agreement, including a failure by us to provide required operating funds or our failure to make a payment when due and failure to cure such non-payment after due notice; a default by either party under the corresponding franchise agreement; a failure of either party to maintain a license for the sale of alcoholic beverages; and a failure by either party to maintain insurance policies required under the management agreement.
In the event that a management company elects to terminate a management agreement due to certain events of default by us, the management company generally may recover a termination fee, as liquidated damages, as set forth in the applicable management agreement. Several of the management agreements for franchised hotels grant us a right to terminate without cause upon notice to the management company. In some instances, such termination requires the payment of a termination fee.
Sale of a Hotel
Under a majority of the management agreements for franchised hotels, in order to sell a hotel, we must terminate the management agreement and pay a fee to the management company. However, in some cases, we may avoid such fees if the new owner is either assigned the agreement or enters into a new agreement with the management company.
Franchise Agreements
Our franchised hotels operate under franchise agreements with Hilton and Marriott. Pursuant to our franchise agreements, we are granted rights to use the franchisor’s name, marks and system in the operation of our hotels. Franchisors also provide us with a variety of services and benefits, including centralized reservation systems, national advertising, marketing programs and publicity designed to increase brand awareness, training of personnel and maintenance of operational quality at hotels across the brand system. In return, our TRS lessees, as the franchisees, are required to operate franchised hotels consistent with the applicable brand standards. The franchise agreements generally specify management, operational, record-keeping, accounting, reporting and marketing standards and procedures with which our TRS lessees must comply, and ensure consistency across the brand by outlining standards for guest services, products, signage and furniture, fixtures and equipment, among other things. To ensure our compliance, most of the franchise agreements specify that we must make the hotel available for quality inspections by the franchisor. We are also required to participate in the applicable loyalty rewards program for each brand.
Term
A majority of our franchise agreements contain an initial term of 15 to 20 years, with an average remaining initial term of approximately 10 years. Almost all of our franchise agreements do not contemplate any renewals or extensions of the initial term.
Fees
Substantially all of our franchise agreements require that we pay a royalty fee ranging between 2% and 6% of the gross room revenue of the applicable hotel and, for certain full service hotels, an additional fee ranging between 2% and 3% on gross food and beverage revenue. We must also pay marketing, reservation or other program fees ranging between 1% and 2.5% of the gross room revenue. In addition, under substantially all of our franchise agreements, the franchisor has the right to require that we renovate guest rooms and public facilities from time to time to comply with then-current brand standards. Under certain agreements, such expenditures are mandated at set periods, with at least some level of expenditure required every five to six years. Many franchise agreements also require the maintenance of a capital reserve fund ranging between 3% and 4% of hotel revenues to be used for capital expenditures to maintain the quality of the hotels.
Termination Events
Our franchise agreements provide for termination at the applicable franchisor’s option upon the occurrence of certain events, including, among others: the failure to maintain brand standards, the failure to pay royalties and fees or to perform other obligations under the franchise license; bankruptcy; and abandonment of the franchise or a change of control, and in the event of such termination, we are required to pay liquidated damages.
Guarantee and Franchisor Rights
The TRS lessee that is the franchisee is responsible for making all payments to the franchisor under the applicable franchise agreement; however, Xenia Hotels & Resorts, Inc., XHR LP and/or the corresponding property-owning subsidiary generally guarantee the TRS lessee’s obligations under the franchise agreements. In addition, some of the franchise agreements require that we provide the franchisor with a right of first offer or right of first refusal in the event of certain sales or transfers of a hotel, and almost all of our agreements provide the franchisor the right to approve any change in the hotel’s management company.
TRS Leases
In order for us to maintain our qualification as a REIT, neither our company nor any of our subsidiaries, including the Operating Partnership, may directly or indirectly operate our hotels. Subsidiaries of our Operating Partnership, as lessors, lease our hotels to our TRS lessees, which, in turn, are parties to the existing hotel management agreements with third-party hotel management companies for each our hotels.
Ground Leases
The following table summarizes the remaining primary term, renewal rights, purchase rights and monthly base rent as of December 31, 2017 associated with land underlying our hotels and meeting facilities that we lease from third parties:
(1)
In addition to minimum rent, the Company may owe percentage rent. In particular, Hyatt Regency Santa Clara incurs percentage rent based on a percentage of rooms revenue and ballroom receipts, which has exceeded the minimum base rent for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015. Marriott Charleston Town Center, per the amendment signed in December 2017, incurs supplemental rent equal to the greater of 0.5% of annual gross revenues or $85 thousand. The Ritz-Carlton, Pentagon City incurs the greater of minimum base rent or five percent (5%) of guest room revenues, which has exceeded minimum base rent for the year ended December 31, 2017.
(2)
The Company has a right of first refusal to purchase the property, which must be exercised within 30 days of receiving the third party’s terms from the landlord.
(3)
For and during the period from January 1, 2006 to December 31, 2029, the Minimum Rent for each year is adjusted based on a calculation tied to the Consumer Price Index. From January 1, 2030 through the remainder of the lease terminating on December 31, 2057, the minimum rent will be redetermined each ten-year period. The monthly minimum or base rent in this chart is for the period from January 1, 2017 through December 31, 2017.
(4)
The Company has a right of first refusal to purchase all or a portion of certain areas covered by the two separate leases.
(5)
If the hotel is increased from 356 to 500 rooms, the new annual base rent will increase to $85 thousand.
(6)
The Company has a right of first refusal to purchase the property, which must be exercised within 60 days of receiving the third party’s terms from the landlord.
(7)
The base rent for each year is adjusted based on a calculation tied to the Consumer Price Index. The monthly minimum or base rent in this chart is for the period from January 1, 2017 through December 31, 2017.
Item 3.