Item 2. Properties
Overview
As of December 31, 2014, we owned a portfolio of 46 hotels, comprising 12,636 rooms, across 19 states and the District of Columbia, and had a majority interest in two hotels under development. For the year ended December 31, 2014, the average occupancy rate for our hotels was 76.3%, and the ADR and RevPAR of our hotels was $177.95 and $135.76, respectively. The following table sets forth certain operating information on a pro forma(1) basis for the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012:
(1) Includes full year data for any hotel acquired during the applicable period by including applicable data for such hotels while they were under prior ownership. See “Part II-Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Results of Operations” for a presentation of such statistics from the date of acquisition of such hotels. For only those hotels operated by Marriott, our historical annual operating results represented here from 2012 to 2013 include a 52-53 week fiscal calendar used by Marriott at that time.
(2) The table excludes our two hotels under development.
(3) Full-year data for 2014 reflects impact by the August 2014 South Napa Earthquake which resulted in damage at two hotels, the Andaz Napa and Marriott Napa Valley Hotel & Spa. The Marriott sustained limited damage, with 4,305 room nights out of order, and fully re-opened in October 2014. The Andaz partially re-opened in December 2014, with a total 17,106 room nights out of order, and fully re-opened in January 2015.
Geographic Diversification
We believe our portfolio of hotels is geographically diverse. Our management team has implemented and executed a strategy of acquiring hotels in the Top 25 Markets and key leisure destinations in the U.S. As of December 31, 2014, 66% of our rooms are located in the Top 25 Markets. The following table shows the geographic diversification as of December 31, 2014(1):
(1) The table excludes our two hotels under development.
Operating Information
The following tables show certain operating information by region on a pro forma(1) basis for the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012(2):
(1) Includes full year data for any hotel acquired during the applicable period by including applicable data for such hotels while they were under prior ownership. See “Part II-Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Results of Operations” for a presentation of such statistics from the date of acquisition of such hotels. For only those hotels operated by Marriott, our historical annual operating results represented here from 2012 to 2013 include a 52-53 week fiscal calendar used by Marriott at that time.
(2) The table excludes our two hotels under development.
(3) Full-year data for 2014 reflects impact by the August 2014 South Napa Earthquake which resulted in damage at two hotels, the Andaz Napa and Marriott Napa Valley Hotel & Spa. The Marriott sustained limited damage, with 4,305 room nights out of order, and fully re-opened in October 2014. The Andaz partially re-opened in December 2014, with a total 17,106 room nights out of order, and fully re-opened in January 2015.
Brand Affiliations
Our portfolio of hotels operate under premium brands, with approximately 76% of our rooms operating under Marriott, Hilton or Hyatt brands. The following table sets forth our brand affiliations as of December 31, 2014(1):
(1) Excludes our two hotels under development.
(2) Our two hotels under development are Autograph Collection hotels, which will have a total of 150 rooms.
Our Hotels
The following table provides a list of our portfolio as of December 31, 2014:
* Top 25 Market or key leisure destination.
(1) “ENC” refers to East North Central; “ESC” refers to East South Central; “M” refers to Mountain; “MA” refers to Middle Atlantic; “NE” refers to New England; “P” refers to Pacific; “SA” refers to South Atlantic; “WNC” refers to West North Central; “WSC” refers to West South Central.
(2) “Aston” refers to an affiliate of Aston Hotels & Resorts LLC; “Courtyard” refers to Courtyard Management Corporation; “Concord” refers to Concord Hospitality Enterprises Company; “Davidson” refers to Davidson Hotel Company LLC; “Embassy Suites” refers to Embassy Suites Management LLC; “Fairmont” refers to Fairmont Hotels & Resorts (U.S.) Inc.; “Hampton Inn” refers to Hampton Inns Management LLC ; “Hilton” refers to Hilton Management LLC; “Hyatt” refers to Hyatt Corporation; “Interstate” refers to Interstate Management Company, LLC; “Kessler” refers to Kessler Collection Management, LLC; “Kimpton” refers to Kimpton Hotel & Restaurant Group, LLC; “Loews” refers to Loews New Orleans Hotel Corp.; “Marriott” refers to Marriott Hotel Services, Inc.; “Renaissance” refers to Renaissance Hotel Operating Company; “Residence Inn” refers to Residence Inn by Marriott, Inc.; “ResortQuest” refers to ResortQuest Hawaii, LLC; “Sage” refers to affiliates of Sage Hospitality Resources, LLC, “Urgo” refers to Urgo Hotels LP; “Westin” refers to Westin Operator, LLC; and “White” refers to White Lodging Services Corporation.
(3) “L” refers to Luxury; “UU” refers to Upper Upscale; “U” refers to Upscale; “UM” refers to Upper Midscale.
(4) This property is subject to mortgage debt at December 31, 2014.
(5) On March 2, 2015 we paid off a mortgage in the amount of $26.3 million relating to the Andaz San Diego.
(6) This hotel is subject to a ground lease that covers all of the land underlying the hotel. See “Our Principal Agreements-Ground Leases” for more information.
(7) This hotel is subject to a ground lease that covers a portion of the land underlying the hotel. See “Our Principal Agreements-Ground Leases” for more information.
(8) We own a 75% interest in the Grand Bohemian Mountain Brook, which is expected to open in the fourth quarter of 2015. Our partner for this hotel is Lane Park at Mountain Brook, LLC. Total costs to develop the hotel are estimated to be $43.0 million, of which we have incurred $21.0 million as of December 31, 2014 and our total capital commitment is limited to $9.6 million. The construction loan on this project is $26.3 million, of which $10.1 million in principal amount is outstanding as of December 31, 2014. Borrowings on the interest-only construction loan bear interest at LIBOR plus 2.5% and the loan matures in 2020 with no extension option. We chose to develop this hotel in order to add an asset to our portfolio that is well positioned to experience strong growth and capture market share in a high barrier-to-entry location with a limited supply of upper upscale properties. This opportunity was only available to us as a joint venture.
(9) We own a 75% interest in the Grand Bohemian Charleston, which is expected to open in the third quarter of 2015. Our partner for this hotel is Kessler Meeting Street, LLC. Total costs to develop the hotel are estimated to be $30.0 million, of which we have incurred $18.7 million as of December 31, 2014 and our total capital commitment is limited to $7.2 million. The construction loan on this project is $20.0 million, of which $11.1 million in principal amount is outstanding as of December 31, 2014. Borrowings on the interest-only construction loan bear interest at LIBOR plus 2.5% and the loan matures in 2020 with no extension option. We chose to develop this hotel in order to add an asset to our portfolio that is well positioned to experience strong growth and capture market share in a high barrier-to-entry location with a limited supply of upper upscale properties. This opportunity was only available to us as a joint venture.
Asset Management
In order to qualify as a REIT, we do not operate our hotel properties, but rather rely on qualified, experienced third-party hotel managers to manage our hotels on a day-to-day basis. As an active owner, we provide direction and oversight to our management companies and on-site property management teams to enhance performance. We have an experienced asset management team that focuses on driving property performance through revenue enhancement and cost containment efforts. Because we work with a wide variety of brand-managed and independent management companies, we actively benchmark performance across our portfolio and seek to extend identified best practices at our hotels. We have frequent interactions with our management companies and on-site management personnel regarding revenue management strategies in an effort to optimize channel distribution and pricing strategies. We regularly conduct sales, marketing, and financial performance reviews designed to identify strengths and weaknesses that can be addressed to enhance property performance. We also conduct periodic on-site meetings with property and regional personnel and in-depth operational reviews focused on identifying new and ongoing margin improvement initiatives.
We meet regularly with key executives of our management companies and brands and participate in various management and brand owner advisory committees at which we provide feedback on hotel-level and corporate programs and initiatives. We strive to negotiate management agreements that provide us with the maximum amount of flexibility with regard to economic terms and owner input. Our asset management team also seeks to enhance value through the optimization of ancillary real estate opportunities.
Project Management
Our asset management team is closely linked with our in-house capital planning and project management team. Together, they are responsible for developing long-term capital plans for each of our properties, taking into
consideration the age of the property, potential performance enhancement, and brand requirements. We believe that by maintaining this function in-house, rather than outsourcing it to third parties, we are able to execute our renovation projects at a lower cost and in a more timely manner. In addition, our project management team has extensive experience in the ground-up development of hotel properties, providing both in-depth knowledge of major building systems as well as the opportunity for us to evaluate potential expansion and development opportunities. We view this as a significant competitive strength.
Our asset management team regularly reviews opportunities to reinvest in our hotels to maintain quality, increase long-term value and generate attractive returns on invested capital. We also review opportunities to dispose of hotels to take advantage of market conditions or in situations where the hotels no longer fit within our strategic objectives. We believe our breadth of experience and integrated in-house asset management and project management teams are instrumental in our ability to acquire and operate assets and to capitalize on redevelopment opportunities.
Since 2008, we have invested a total of approximately $235 million during our ownership period in capital expenditures to competitively position our portfolio to increase revenues as well as to keep our hotels well maintained. During this period, in addition to ongoing renovation projects related to building systems and infrastructure, we have completed guest room renovations at 27 of our hotels, lobby renovations at 22 of our hotels, food and beverage facility renovations at 22 of our hotels and meeting space renovations at 13 of our hotels. In 2015, we currently plan to complete guest room renovations at three hotels and are developing plans for additional renovations to lobbies, food and beverage facilities and/or meeting spaces at six hotels.
Our Principal Agreements
Hotel Management and Franchise Agreements
In order to qualify as a REIT, we cannot directly or indirectly operate any of our hotels. We lease each of our 46 hotels to TRS lessees, which in turn engage property managers to manage our hotels. Each of our hotels is operated pursuant to a hotel management agreement with an independent hotel management company. Approximately half of our hotels, which we refer to as “franchised hotels” are also operated under distinct franchise agreements, a few of which are with an affiliate of the hotel’s management company. Approximately half of our hotels are not subject to a franchise agreement, and instead receive the benefits of one pursuant to the hotel’s management agreement. We refer to these hotels as “brand-managed hotels.”
Below is a general overview of the management and franchise agreements for our hotels, summarizing the principal terms found in each type of agreement.
Management Agreements for Brand-Managed Hotels
Pursuant to our management agreements for brand-managed hotels, the management company controls the day-to-day operations of each hotel, and we are granted limited approval rights with respect to certain of the management company’s actions, including entering into long-term or high value contracts, engaging in certain actions relating to legal proceedings, approving the operating budget, making certain capital expenditures and the hiring of certain management personnel.
As in our franchise agreements described below, we are provided with a variety of services and benefits, including the right to use the name, marks and system of operation of a brand affiliated with the management company, as well as centralized reservation systems, national advertising, marketing programs and publicity designed to increase brand awareness, training of personnel and payroll and accounting services.
Of our brand-managed hotels, approximately half are managed by Marriott, approximately a quarter are managed by Hyatt, and the rest are managed by management companies affiliated with a variety of other brands.
Term
The majority of our management agreements for brand-managed hotels contain an initial term between 20 to 30 years, and have an average remaining initial term of approximately 15 years, assuming no renewal options are exercised by the management company. These agreements generally allow for one or more renewal periods at the option of the management company, for an average remaining term including the exercise of all renewal options of approximately 29 years.
Fees
Our management agreements for brand-managed hotels typically contain a two-tiered fee structure, wherein the management company receives a base management fee and, if certain financial thresholds are met or exceeded, an incentive management fee. The base management fee is typically 3.0% of gross hotel revenues or receipts, but ranges from 2.0% to 7.0%, the highest of which also include fees for additional non-management services. The incentive management fees range from 10% to 40% of the available cash flow or adjusted profit remaining after we receive an annual payment typically equal to 10%-11% of our total capital investment in the hotel. We also pay certain accounting services fees to the management companies in a majority of the agreements.
Termination Events
Performance Termination
Most of our management agreements for our brand-managed hotels align our interests with those of the management company by providing us with a right to terminate the agreement if the management company fails to achieve certain criteria relating to the performance of the hotel. We generally may initiate a performance termination if, during any two consecutive year period, (i) the hotel fails to achieve a specified amount of operating profit, and (ii) certain operating metrics of the hotel, as compared to a competitive set of hotels in the relevant local market as agreed between the parties, fail to exceed a specified threshold as set forth in the applicable management agreement. In substantially all of the management agreements for brand-managed hotels, the management company has a right to avoid a performance termination by paying an amount equal to the amount by which the operating profit for the two year period was less than the performance termination threshold, as set forth in the applicable management agreement.
Early Termination and Liquidated Damages
Subject to certain qualifications, notice requirements and applicable cure periods, the management agreements for our brand-managed hotels are generally terminable by either party upon a material casualty or condemnation of the hotel or the occurrence of certain customary events of default, including, among others: the bankruptcy or insolvency of either party; the failure of either party to make a payment when due, and failure to cure such non-payment after due notice; or breach by either party of covenants or obligations under the management agreement.
Additionally, the management company typically has the right to terminate the management agreement in certain situations, including the occurrence of certain actions with respect to the mortgage or our interference with the management company’s ability to operate the hotel by failing to approve required capital improvements or expenditures or by failing to complete or commence required repair after damage or destruction to the hotel. Most of our agreements do not require payment of liquidated damages in the event of an early termination; however, our Marriott brand-managed hotels require us to establish a reserve fund out of gross revenues to be used in the event of a termination. The fund is to be used to reimburse the management company for all costs and expenses incurred by the management company that relate to (i) the operation of the hotel prior to termination but that accrue after termination, (ii) the management company terminating its employees and/or (iii) the payment of any pending or contingent claims, depending on the agreement.
Sale of a Hotel
Our management agreements for our brand-managed hotels generally provide that we cannot sell a hotel to a person who: (i) does not have sufficient financial resources, (ii) is of bad moral character, (iii) is a competitor, or (iv) is a specially designated national or blocked person, as set forth in the applicable management agreement. Under most agreements, we will default if we proceed with a sale without the management company’s consent and the assignment of the hotel’s management agreement. Some of the agreements provide that our sale or transfer of the hotel to an affiliate does not require us to obtain the consent of the management company.
Management Agreements for Franchised Hotels
Our franchised hotels are managed by various third party management companies, which are either independent or are affiliated with a hotel’s brand. As in our management agreements for brand-managed hotels, the management company controls the day-to-day operations of each hotel, and we are granted limited approval rights with respect to certain of the management company’s actions, including entering into long-term or high value contracts, engaging in certain actions relating to legal proceedings, approving the operating budget, making certain capital expenditures and the hiring of certain management personnel.
Term
Our management agreements for franchised hotels generally contain initial terms between seven and 15 years with an average remaining initial term of approximately five years. Almost all of these agreements either do not contemplate a renewal or extension of the initial term or cannot be extended without our consent, and the rest may be extended at the option of the management company if certain conditions are met. Assuming all renewal or extension options are excised, the average remaining term is approximately eight years.
Fees
Generally, the management agreements for franchised hotels contain a two-tiered fee structure in which the management company receives a base management fee and, if certain financial thresholds are met or exceeded, an incentive management fee, each calculated on a per hotel basis. The base management fees range from 1.5% to 4.0% of gross hotel revenue, with some base fees increasing over time. Almost all of the incentive management fees range from 10% to 30% of net operating income (or other similar metric, as defined in the management agreement) remaining after deducting a priority return typically equal to 10%-11% of our total capital investment in the hotel. We also pay certain accounting services fees to the management companies under a majority of the agreements.
Termination Events
Performance Termination
As with our management agreements for brand-managed hotels, most of the management agreements for franchised hotels provide us with a right to terminate the agreement if the management company fails to achieve certain criteria relating to the performance of the hotel. Generally, we may initiate a performance termination if, during any two consecutive year period, (i) the hotel fails to achieve a specified amount of operating profit, and (ii) certain operating metrics of the hotel, as compared to a competitive set of hotels in the relevant local market as agreed between the parties, fail to exceed a specified threshold as set forth in the applicable management agreement. In some of the management agreements for franchised hotels, the management company has a right, which can usually be exercised no more than once per hotel, to avoid a performance termination by paying an amount specified in the applicable management agreement.
Early Termination and Liquidated Damages
Subject to certain qualifications, notice requirements and applicable cure periods, the management agreements for franchised hotels are generally terminable by either party upon a material casualty or condemnation of the hotel or the occurrence of certain customary events of default, including, among others: the bankruptcy or insolvency of either party; a breach by either party of covenants or obligations under the management agreement, including a failure by us to provide required operating funds or our failure to make a payment when due and failure to cure such non-payment after due notice; a default by either party under the corresponding franchise agreement; a failure of either party to maintain a license for the sale of alcoholic beverages; and a failure by either party to maintain insurance policies required under the management agreement.
In the event that a management company elects to terminate a management agreement due to certain events of default by us, the management company generally may recover a termination fee, as liquidated damages, as set forth in the applicable management agreement. Several of the management agreements for franchised hotels grant us a right to terminate without cause upon notice to the management company. In some instances, such termination requires the payment of a termination fee.
Sale of a Hotel
Under a majority of the management agreements for franchised hotels, in order to sell a hotel, we must terminate the management agreement and pay a fee to the management company. However, in some cases, we may avoid such fees if the new owner is either assigned the agreement or enters into a new agreement with the management company.
Franchise Agreements
Our franchised hotels operate under franchise agreements with Hilton, Marriott and Starwood. Pursuant to our franchise agreements, we are granted rights to use the franchisor’s name, marks and system in the operation of our hotels. Franchisors also provide us with a variety of services and benefits, including centralized reservation systems, national advertising, marketing programs and publicity designed to increase brand awareness, training of personnel and maintenance of operational quality at hotels across the brand system. In return, our TRS lessees, as the franchisees, are required to operate franchised hotels consistent with the applicable brand standards. The franchise agreements generally specify management, operational, record-keeping, accounting, reporting and marketing standards and procedures with which our TRS lessees must comply, and ensure consistency across the brand by outlining standards for guest services, products, signage and furniture, fixtures and equipment, among other things. To ensure our compliance, most of the franchise agreements specify that we must make the hotel available for quality inspections by the franchisor. We are also required to participate in the applicable rewards program for each brand.
Term
A majority of our franchise agreements contain an initial term of 15 to 20 years, with an average remaining initial term of approximately 11 years. Almost all of our franchise agreements do not contemplate any renewals or extensions of the initial term.
Fees
Substantially all of our franchise agreements require that we pay a royalty fee ranging between 4% and 6.5% of the gross room revenue of the applicable hotel and, for certain full service hotels, an additional fee ranging between 2% and 3% on gross food and beverage revenue. We must also pay marketing, reservation or other program fees ranging between 1% and 4.3% of the gross room revenue. In addition, under substantially all of our franchise agreements, the franchisor has the right to require that we renovate guest rooms and public facilities from time to time to comply with then-current brand standards. Under certain agreements, such
expenditures are mandated at set periods, with at least some level of expenditure required every five to six years. Many franchise agreements also require the maintenance of a capital reserve fund ranging between 4% and 6% of gross room revenue to be used for mandated capital expenditures.
Termination Events
Our franchise agreements provide for termination at the applicable franchisor’s option upon the occurrence of certain events, including, among others: the failure to maintain brand standards, the failure to pay royalties and fees or to perform other obligations under the franchise license; bankruptcy; and abandonment of the franchise or a change of control, and in the event of such termination, we are required to pay liquidated damages.
Guarantee and Franchisor Rights
The TRS lessee that is the franchisee is responsible for making all payments to the franchisor under the applicable franchise agreement; however, Xenia Hotels & Resorts, Inc. and/or the corresponding property-owning subsidiary generally guarantee the TRS lessee’s obligations under the franchise agreements. In addition, some of the franchise agreements require that we provide the franchisor with a right of first offer or right of first refusal in the event of certain sales or transfers of a hotel, and almost all of our agreements provide the franchisor the right to approve any change in the hotel’s management company.
TRS Leases
In order for us to qualify as a REIT, neither our company nor any of our subsidiaries, including the operating partnership, may directly or indirectly operate our hotels. Subsidiaries of our operating partnership, as lessors, lease our hotels to our TRS lessees, which, in turn, are parties to the existing hotel management agreements with third-party hotel management companies for each of our hotels.
Ground Leases
The following table summarizes the remaining primary term, renewal rights, purchase rights and monthly base rent as of December 31, 2014 associated with land underlying our hotels and meeting facilities that we lease from third parties:
(1) Tenant has a right of first refusal to purchase the property, which must be exercised within 30 days of receiving the third party’s terms from Landlord.
(2) For and during the period from January 1, 2006 to December 31, 2029, the Minimum Rent for each year is adjusted based on a calculation tied to the Consumer Price Index. The monthly minimum or base rent in this chart is for the period from January 1, 2014 through December 31, 2014.
(3) Tenant has a right of first refusal to purchase all or a portion of certain areas covered by the two separate leases.
(4) Monthly rent also includes variable incentive rent.
(5) If the hotel is increased from 356 rooms to 500 rooms, the new annual base rent will be $71,500.
(6) Tenant has a right of first refusal to purchase the property, which must be exercised within 60 days of receiving the third party’s terms from Landlord.
(7) For and during the period from June 29, 2006 to June 28, 2100, the base rent for each year is adjusted based on a calculation tied to the Consumer Price Index. The monthly minimum or base rent in this chart is for the period from June 29, 2014 through June 28, 2015.
Item 3.