ITEM 2.
PROPERTIES
As of December 31, 2018, our portfolio included 206 Wholly Owned Properties totaling approximately 31.6 million square feet of GLA across 48 states and Puerto Rico, and 50% interests in 26 JV Properties totaling over 4.7 million square feet of GLA across 13 states. The following tables set forth certain information regarding our Wholly Owned Properties and JV Properties based on signed leases as of December 31, 2018, including signed but not yet open leases (“SNO leases”):
- 28 -
- 29 -
- 30 -
- 31 -
- 32 -
(1)
Based on signed leases as of December 31, 2018, including SNO leases.
(2)
Denotes property subject to the Holdco Master Lease. The Holdco Master Lease cannot become effective until the Master Lease is rejected.
(3)
Property is subject to a ground lease.
- 33 -
- 34 -
The following table sets forth information regarding the geographic diversification of our portfolio, with JV Properties presented at our proportional share, based on signed leases as of December 31, 2018, including SNO leases:
(1)
Includes 39 states.
The Master Lease, Holdco Master Lease and JV Master Leases
The Master Lease
The Master Lease, which remains in effect unless and until its rejection, is a unitary, non-divisible lease as to all properties, with Sears Holdings’ obligations as to each property cross-defaulted with all obligations of Sears Holdings with respect to all other properties. The Master Lease generally is a triple net lease with respect to all space which is leased thereunder to Sears Holdings, subject to proportional sharing by Sears Holdings for repair and maintenance charges, real property taxes, insurance and other costs and expenses which are common to both the space leased by Sears Holdings and other space occupied by other tenants in the same or other buildings, space which is recaptured pursuant to the Company recapture rights described below and all other space which is constructed on the properties. Under the Master Lease, Sears Holdings is required to make all expenditures reasonably necessary to maintain the premises in good appearance, repair and condition for as long as they are in occupancy. The Master Lease has an initial term of 10 years.
The Master Lease provides us with the right to recapture up to approximately 50% of the space occupied by Sears Holdings at each of the 224 Wholly Owned Properties initially included in the Master Lease (subject to certain exceptions and limitations). In addition, Seritage has the right to recapture any automotive care centers which are free-standing or attached as “appendages” to the properties, all outparcels or outlots and certain portions of parking areas and common areas. Upon exercise of this recapture right, we generally incur certain costs and expenses for the separation of the recaptured space from the remaining Sears Holdings space and can reconfigure and rent the recaptured space to diversified, non-Sears tenants on potentially superior terms determined by us and for our own account.
The Master Lease also provides us the right to recapture 100% of the space occupied by Sears Holdings at each of 21 identified Wholly Owned Properties by making a specified lease termination payment to Sears Holdings, after which we expect to be able to reposition and re-lease those stores on potentially superior terms determined by us and for our own account.
As of December 31, 2018, we had exercised recapture rights at 70 properties, including 17 properties at which we exercised partial recapture rights, 40 properties at which we exercised 100% recapture rights (24 of which were converted from partial recapture properties), and 13 properties at which we exercised our rights to recapture only automotive care centers or outparcels.
- 35 -
As of December 31, 2018, the Company had exercised certain recapture rights under the Master Lease at 70 properties as follows:
- 36 -
(1)
The Company converted partial recapture rights at this property to 100% recapture rights and exercised such rights.
(2)
In May 2018, the Company contributed this property to the UTC JV and retained a 50.0% interest in the joint venture.
(3)
In March 2018, the Company contributed this asset to the Mark 302 JV and retained a 50.1% interest in the joint venture.
(4)
In May 2018, the Company contributed this property to the West Hartford JV and retained a 50.0% interest in the joint venture.
(5)
In July 2017, the Company contributed this asset to the GGP II JV and retained a 50.0% interest in the joint venture.
The Master Lease also provides for certain rights to Sears Holdings to terminate the Master Lease with respect to Wholly Owned Properties that cease to be profitable for operation by Sears Holdings. In order to terminate the Master Lease with respect to a certain property, Sears Holdings must make a payment to the Company of an amount equal to one year of rent (together with taxes and other expenses) with respect to such property. Sears Holdings must provide notice of not less than 90 days of their intent to exercise such termination right and such termination right will be limited so that it will not have the effect of reducing the fixed rent under the Master Lease by more than 20% per annum.
As of December 31, 2018, Sears Holdings had terminated the Master Lease with respect to 87 stores totaling 11.7 million square feet of gross leasable area. The aggregate annual base rent at these stores was approximately $40.7 million. Sears Holdings continued to pay the Company rent until it vacated the stores and also incurred aggregate termination fees of approximately $77.3 million, an amount equal to one year of aggregate annual base rent plus one year of estimated real estate taxes and operating expenses.
As of December 31, 2018, the Company had commenced or completed redevelopment projects at 39 of the terminated properties and will continue to announce redevelopment activity as new leases are signed to occupy the space formerly occupied by Sears Holdings. During the year ended December 31, 2018, the Company sold ten of the terminated properties for $40.1 million and recorded a gain of $11.0 million which is included in gain on sale of real estate within the consolidated statements of operations.
The table below includes the 87 properties at which Sears Holdings had terminated the Master Lease as of December 31, 2018:
- 37 -
(1)
The Company and Sears Holdings agreed to extend occupancy beyond October 2017 under the existing Master Lease terms.
- 38 -
The Holdco Master Lease
On February 11, 2019, Holdco completed the Holdco Acquisition. In connection with the Holdco Acquisition, Holdco acquired certain designation rights (which rights must be exercised by April 12, 2019) with respect to certain executory contracts and leases of Sears Holdings, including our Master Lease with Sears Holdings. On February 28, 2019, we and certain affiliates of Holdco entered into the Holdco Master Lease. A condition to the performance and obligations provided for in the Holdco Master Lease is the rejection of the Master Lease. On February 28, 2019, Sears Holdings filed a notice with the Bankruptcy Court seeking an order of the Bankruptcy Court approving the rejection of the Master Lease. The rejection will become effective by either (i) the Bankruptcy Court issues an order approving the rejection of the Master Lease or (ii) the Master Lease is deemed to be rejected pursuant to the operation of the Bankruptcy Code. As a result of this condition there can be no assurance as to the commencement of our and Holdco’s performance and obligations provided for in the Holdco Master Lease and/or the timing thereof.
The Holdco Master Lease is a unitary, non-divisible lease as to all properties, pursuant to which Holdco’s obligations as to each property are cross-defaulted with all obligations of Holdco with respect to all other properties. The Holdco Master Lease generally is a triple net lease with respect to all space which will be leased thereunder to Holdco, subject to proportional sharing by Holdco for repair and maintenance charges, real property taxes, insurance and other costs and expenses which are common to both the space leased by Holdco and other space occupied by other tenants in the same or other buildings, space which is recaptured pursuant to the Company recapture rights described below and all other space which is constructed on the properties. Under the Holdco Master Lease, Holdco is required to make all expenditures reasonably necessary to maintain the premises in good appearance, repair and condition for as long as they are in occupancy.
Consistent with the Master Lease, the Holdco Master Lease will expire in July 2025, and contains the same three options for five-year renewals of the term and a final option for a four-year renewal as exists under the Master Lease.
The Holdco Master Lease provides for an initial base rent amount of approximately $32.5 million annually payable to us. In each of the initial term and the first two renewal terms, consistent with the Master Lease, base rent under the Holdco Master Lease will be increased in August of each year by 2.0% per annum for each lease year over the rent for the immediately preceding lease year. For subsequent renewal terms, consistent with the Master Lease, rent will be set at the commencement of the renewal term for the Holdco Master Lease at a fair market rent based on a customary third-party appraisal process, taking into account all the terms of the Holdco Master Lease and other relevant factors, but in no event will the renewal rent be less than the rent payable in the immediately preceding lease year. The base rent under the Holdco Master Lease will be subject to adjustment in the form of a rent concession of up to approximately $12 million in each of the first and second years of the Holdco Master Lease, which rent concession is allocated to specific properties in the amount by which such properties are EBITDA negative on a trailing twelve-month basis. If any such EBITDA negative properties are recaptured by the Company or terminated by Holdco, the base rent concession attributable to such property will no longer be applicable. Holdco is also responsible for all operating expenses associated with its occupancy of the subject properties, including an amount estimated as of the date of the Holdco Master Lease to be approximately $11.5 million of annual reimbursements payable to us in addition to certain operating expenses to be paid directly by Holdco, in each instance with no offsetting rent concession.
The Holdco Master Lease, consistent with the Master Lease, provides us with the right to recapture up to approximately 50% of the space occupied by Holdco at all properties (other than the five Tenant 100% Occupancy Properties described below). Upon exercise of any 50% recapture right, consistent with the Master Lease, Holdco will generally incur certain costs and expenses for the separation of the recaptured space from the remaining Holdco space and can reconfigure and rent the recaptured space to diversified tenants on potentially superior terms determined by us and for our own account.
Additionally, in contrast to the Master Lease, which permitted us to recapture 100% of 21 specified properties (out of the 224 properties originally leased under the Master Lease) upon payment of a specified lease recapture payment, the Holdco Master Lease provides us with the right, beginning in the second year of the term of the Holdco Master Lease, to recapture 100% of the space occupied by Holdco at any of the properties included in the Holdco Master Lease (other than the five Tenant 100% Occupancy Properties described below) without making a specified lease recapture payment to Holdco. The right to recapture 100% of any property is limited to 10 properties in each year of the Holdco Master Lease term, with carry-over rights if less than 10 properties are recaptured in any year of the Holdco Master Lease term. In the event of a 100% recapture of a property (or termination of a property by Holdco pursuant to which Holdco pays a termination fee) and any subsequent re-development of such property for retail purposes, if the property has store space that is suitable for a 10,000-20,000 square foot Sears or Kmart store, Holdco will have the right of first offer to lease such space at either (x) the same per square foot rent for such property under the Holdco Master Lease if the space is delivered in a “cold dark shell” condition or (y) if we provide a market tenant allowance, the lesser of (1) the market rent for such space or (2) 200% of the per square foot rent for such property under the Holdco Master Lease, with such election being at our discretion. If we do not provide Holdco with a right of first offer on at least one-third of any such properties that are either recaptured 100% by us or terminated by Holdco (with payment of a termination fee) in a given lease year, then our right to exercise 100% recaptures is subject to payment of a recapture fee until such time as we have complied with the foregoing ratio.
- 39 -
In addition, consistent with the Master Lease, the Company under the Holdco Master Lease will have the right to recapture any automotive care centers which are free-standing or attached as “appendages” to the properties, all outparcels or outlots and certain portions of parking areas and common areas.
In contrast to the Master Lease, we are not permitted under the Holdco Master Lease to recapture either 50% or 100% of five specified properties located in Puerto Rico and California (collectively, the “Tenant 100% Occupancy Properties”); however, we are still permitted to recapture any outparcels or outlots and certain portions of parking areas and common areas at these five properties. As is the case with all properties under the Holdco Master Lease, and consistent with the terms of the Master Lease, Holdco is generally prohibited from subleasing any space demised under the Holdco Master Lease, including at the five Tenant 100% Occupancy Properties.
Under the terms of the Holdco Master Lease, Holdco has the right, at any time, to terminate the Holdco Master Lease with respect to any property upon the payment of a termination fee equal to one year of base rent plus annual taxes and other operating expenses, without the requirement that such property is EBITDA negative as is required under the Master Lease. Additionally, unlike the Master Lease, beginning in the second year of the term of the Holdco Master Lease, Holdco has the right to terminate without payment of a termination fee: (i) up to 16 properties in the second year of the Holdco Master Lease term, (ii) up to 12 properties in the third year of the Holdco Master Lease term, (iii) up to 10 properties in the fourth year of the Holdco Master Lease term, and (iv) thereafter, the remaining properties, in each instance with carry-over rights if less than the maximum permitted number of properties are terminated in any lease year.
Consistent with the Master Lease, Holdco is obligated to continuously operate a Sears or Kmart store (or such store as may be re-branded and/or used for other retail uses pursuant to the Holdco Master Lease) of a minimum size specified in the Holdco Master Lease on each of the properties where such stores operate currently (except for reasonable periods required for alterations or restoration of damage), subject to the recapture and termination rights provided above. The Holdco Master Lease also contains customary provisions contained in master triple net leases governing the leasing of retail properties, including, among others, with respect to maintenance, restoration (and certain termination rights) in the event of casualty and condemnation, cross-default with respect to each property in the Holdco Master Lease, indemnification and assumption of risk of loss, alterations and insurance. The Holdco Master Lease contains customary provisions for the protection of mortgagees, including a provision requiring the parties to enter into a subordination, non-disturbance and attornment agreement.
Edward S. Lampert, the Company’s Chairman, is the Chairman of the Board of each of the tenant entities that is a party to the Holdco Master Lease. The terms of the Holdco Master Lease were approved by the Company’s Audit Committee and the Company’s Board of Trustees (with Mr. Lampert recusing himself).
The JV Master Leases
The JV Master Leases are unitary, non-severable leases for all JV Properties in the applicable JV Master Lease and are generally triple net leases with respect to the space occupied by Sears Holdings, subject to Sears Holdings’ proportionate sharing of taxes and other operating expenses with respect to properties that had third-party tenants of the GGP JVs, the Simon JV and the Macerich JV, as applicable. The JV Master Leases each have an initial term of 10 years, and in each case Sears Holdings has three separate, consecutive five-year renewal options to extend the initial term. For each JV Master Lease in each of the initial and renewal terms, after the third lease year of the initial term, the annual base rent for the remainder of the term and all renewal terms will be increased by 2.0% per annum for each lease year over the rent for the immediately preceding lease year.
Each JV Master Lease provides the GGP JVs, the Simon JV and the Macerich JV, as applicable, with the right to recapture (without additional payment) up to approximately 50% of the space occupied by Sears Holdings under such JV Master Lease (subject to certain exceptions). In addition, the GGP JVs, the Simon JV and the Macerich JV, as applicable, have the right to recapture any automotive care centers which are free-standing or attached as “appendages” to the JV Properties, all outparcels or outlots, and certain portions of parking areas and common areas at the JV Properties (other than with respect to one property owned by the Macerich JV). The Simon JV has the additional right to recapture 100% of the space occupied by Sears Holdings at one of the JV Properties under its JV Master Lease for a termination fee as provided in such JV Master Lease.
Each JV Master Lease also provides Sears Holdings with the right to terminate the lease with respect to underperforming stores upon payment of a termination fee calculated as provided in the JV Master Lease.
Except with respect to the rent amounts and the properties covered, the general formats of the JV Master Leases are similar to one another and to the Master Lease.
- 40 -
As of the date hereof, none of the existing JV Master Leases where Sears Holdings is the principal tenant have been assumed or rejected. There can be no assurance that any such leases will not be assumed or rejected, or that Sears Holdings will continue to perform its obligations under the existing JV Master Leases to which it is a party.
Tenant Summary
The information presented below does not give effect to the filing of the notice of rejection by Sears Holdings of the Master Lease on February 28, 2019, or the execution of the Holdco Master Lease.
The following table sets forth information regarding our tenants and our leases, with JV Properties presented at our proportional share, based on signed leases as of December 31, 2018, including SNO leases:
(1)
Number of leases reflects number of properties subject to the Master Lease and JV Master Leases.
(2)
Metrics include four properties subject to previously exercised recapture notices and five properties under contract for sale.
The following table lists the top tenants at our properties, including JV Properties presented at our proportional share, based on signed leases as of December 31, 2018, including SNO leases:
(1)
Number of leases reflects number of properties subject to the Master Lease and JV Master Leases.
(2)
Taking into account previously exercised recapture notices and assets under contract for sale, there were 96 properties subject to the Master Lease and JV Master Leases as of December 31, 2018.
- 41 -
Lease Expirations
The following table sets forth a summary schedule of lease expirations for signed leases, including SNO leases, with JV Properties presented at our proportional share, as of December 31, 2018. The information set forth in the table assumes that no tenants exercise renewal options or early termination rights:
(1)
In 2025, includes 105 properties subject to the Master Lease and JV Master Leases.
- 42 -
ITEM 3.