Item 2. Properties.
SLEEPER GOLD PROJECT
Overview and Location
Sleeper is a material exploration property of the Company. The Company has the rights to explore, develop and mine the property through our 100% ownership of unpatented lode mining claims. Sleeper is located 26 miles northwest of Winnemucca, Nevada. Automobile and truck access to the property is by Interstate Highway 80 to Winnemucca, north on Highway 95 for 32 miles, west on Highway 140 for 14 miles, and then south for 6 miles on the maintained gravel Sod House Road to the project site. An office building, heavy equipment enclosure and warehousing facility are present on the Sleeper Gold Property. Necessary supplies, equipment and services to carry out full sequence exploration and mining development projects are available in Winnemucca, Reno, and Elko, Nevada.
Mining Claims
The Sleeper Gold mine and its 1,044 unpatented lode mining claims were acquired by PGSC through its acquisition of X-Cal Resources Ltd. in August 2010. Additional mining claims have been staked or acquired which now comprise the Sleeper Gold Project.
The 100% owned mining claims are summarized in the following table:
The following map illustrates the general location of the Sleeper Gold Project and the associated mining claims:
History of Previous Operations
The Sleeper Gold Project includes a historic open pit mine (the “Sleeper Gold mine”) operated by AMAX Gold Inc. (“Amax”) from 1986 until 1996, which produced 1.66 million ounces of gold and 2.3 million ounces of silver. All processing facilities and equipment related to the mining operations conducted by Amax have been removed from the site.
Power and Water
As a result of Amax’s mine operation from 1986 to 1996, electrical power is provided to the property by power lines. Water is available by two deep wells located on the property.
Paramount’s Exploration History at Sleeper Gold Project
PGSC conducted its first exploration program at the Sleeper Gold mine in October 2010. It consisted of 19 drill holes totaling 18,065 feet and focused on verifying data on existing models and confirming continuity and strike extension of known mineralized zones. From July 1, 2011 through June 30, 2012, PGSC completed 79 drill holes totaling 21,013 feet and followed that up in the period from July 1, 2012, through June 30, 2013, with 38 drill holes totaling 55,104 feet.
In August 2011, PGSC announced the acquisition of 606 unpatented lode mining claims (the “Dunes Project”) located eleven miles south of the Sleeper Gold mine from ICN Resources Ltd. (“ICN”). In consideration, PGSC issued 400,000 shares of its common stock to ICN.
In September 2011, PGSC announced the results of a new material estimate on the Sleeper Gold mine prepared by SRK Consulting (“SRK”). Such estimate was conducted in accordance with the Canadian standards set forth in National Instrument 43-101. Based on the results of the report, the Company commissioned Scott E. Wilson Consulting Inc. (“SEWC”) to prepare a Preliminary Economic Assessment (“PEA”) for the project. The PEA is designed to evaluate both the technical and financial aspects of various production scenarios using the material estimate developed by SRK.
Also, in July 2012, PGSC announced the staking of 920 new lode mining claims (the “Mimi Project”) adjacent to the west and immediately south, of the Sleeper Gold mine. The Mimi Project totals 18,400 acres.
In July 2012, PGSC announced the results of the PEA completed by SEWC on the Sleeper Gold mine property. SEWC concluded that the most attractive development scenario consists of a large-scale open pit mining operation with a heap leach processing plant handling both oxide and sulfide material, producing a gold-silver dore. The PEA assumes an 81,000 ton per day operation resulting in a projected 17-year operation with an average annual production of 172,000 ounces of gold and 263,000 ounces of silver. Paramount received the completed PEA report in September 2012.
In 2013, PGSC announced several results of a drilling campaign which was focused in and around the existing resource and pit areas. Assay results extended the mineralization east and south of the existing resource, opened up new depth potential below the existing sleeper pit and intercepted exceptional results in several zones. Additionally, PGSC undertook an extensive database review and as a result, a total of 473 core and RC holes have been re-logged and new cross-sections were generated. Paramount completed a re-interpreted lithological and structural model which will allow us to plan a new drill program and to update our mineralized material estimate model.
In August 2014, PGSC dropped a total of 212 mining claims from its Sleeper Gold Project. These claims no longer had any geological value to the Company.
In May 2015, Paramount announced the results of its updated mineralized material estimate for its Sleeper Gold Project. The estimate incorporated all new drilling since the last mineralized material estimate that was completed in September 2011. Both estimations were completed by SRK.
In August 2015, we completed an initial geophysical survey which consisted of a helicopter magnetometry study. The survey defined several possible exploration targets which are being reviewed by our geological team. Additional surveys on areas covered by overburden will be evaluated for further testing. This testing can include Induced Polarization programs or other indirect methodologies. The Company believes that the resulting data derived from the geophysical program will produce valuable drilling targets. Future drill programs will be designed with the aim identifying new zones of mineralization with an emphasis on areas covered with overburden.
In October 2015, we released the results of a new PEA for our Sleeper Gold Project in Nevada. The PEA was completed by Metal Mining Consultants Inc. (“MMC”) of Denver, Colorado. MMC concluded that the optimal mining scenario is a 30,000 tonnes per day heap leach process facility fed by an open pit.
This mining scenario results in an average annual production of 102,000 ounces of gold and 105,000 ounces of silver for seven years with additional metal recovered over the following two years during final leaching of 37,850 ounces of gold and 30,500 ounces of silver. The life of mine average cash operating are estimated to be $529 per equivalent gold ounce produced and the total life of mine capital requirements are estimated to be $258.8 Million.
This PEA is preliminary in nature and should not be considered to be a pre-feasibility or feasibility study, as the economics and technical viability of the Sleeper Gold Project have not been demonstrated at this time. Therefore, there can be no certainty that the estimates contained in the PEA will be realized.
Geology and Mineralization
The Sleeper Gold Project is situated within the western, apparently older, part of the Northern Nevada Rift geologic province of Miocene age, along the western flank of the Slumbering Hills within Desert Valley. The geological structures that underlie Desert Valley appear to have been down-dropped 3,000 to 3,300 feet along the north-to northeast-trending normal faults along the western edge of the Slumbering Hills.
Four main types of gold mineralization are found within the Sleeper Gold Project deposit and may represent a continuum as the system evolved from a high level, high sulfidation system dominated by intrusion related fluids and volatiles to a low sulfidation meteoric water dominant system. In this setting the paragenetic relationships of the differing mineralization styles are as follows:
•
Early - quartz-pyrite-marcasite stockwork;
•
Intermediate - medium-grade, silica-pyrite-marcasite cemented breccias localized on zones of structural weakness;
•
Late - high-grade, banded, quartz-adularia-electrum-(sericite) veins; and
•
Post - alluvial gold-silver deposits in Pliocene gravels.
Grassy Mountain Gold Project
Overview and Location
The Grassy Mountain Project is located in Malheur County, Oregon, approximately 22 miles south of Vale, Oregon, and roughly 70 miles west of Boise, Idaho. The property is accessed by vehicle from the town of Vale by a private and BLM maintained dirt road. The project site is situated in the rolling hills of the high desert region of the far western Snake River Plain and consists of 418 unpatented lode claims, 3 patented lode claims, 9 mill site claims, 6 association placer claims, and various leased fee land surface and surface/mineral rights, all totaling roughly 9,300 acres. The local terrain is gentle to moderate, with elevations ranging from 3300 to 4,300 feet above mean sea level.
Power and Water
To effect mining operations power and water source infrastructure would need to be developed as it does not currently exist.
Property Agreements and Royalty Obligations
The following map illustrates the mining claims subject to royalty payments at the Grassy Mountain Project:
Sherry and Yates Inc.
An annual lease agreement for unpatented and patented mining claims is currently in place between Calico and Sherry & Yates Inc. The agreement allows Calico to prospect and explore for, mine by any method at its sole discretion for the term of the agreement. Calico is required to make annual advance royalty payments at a rate of $100,000 per year. In a mining scenario, the agreement provides for a production royalty payments based on the price of gold. The rates are as follows:
Production Royalty Rate on Gross Proceeds
Gold Price Per Ounce
4.0%
Less than $500
5.0%
$500-800
6.0%
Over $800
In addition, the agreement provides for a 4% production royalty on any other metals, other than gold.
From February 17, 2016 until February 16, 2017, Calico will have the right but not the obligation to purchase the mining claims subject to a 1.25% royalty to be retained by Sherry & Yates Inc., for $2,300,000.
From February 17, 2017 until February 16, 2018, Calico will have the right but not the obligation to purchase the mining claims subject to a 1.5% royalty to be retained by Sherry & Yates Inc., for $2,400,000.
Seabridge Gold
Seabridge Gold Inc. (“Seabridge”), a NYSE listed company, holds a net profits interest (“NPI”) in a mining scenario at Grassy Mountain. The NPI is calculated at a rate of 10% on net profits on certain mining claims. Seabridge also holds an NPI put option in which during the 30 day period immediately following the day that Calico had delivered notice to Seabridge that a positive production decision has been made and construction financing has been secured with respect to the Grassy Mountain Project, Seabridge may cause Calico to purchase the NPI for CDN$10,000,000. If Seabridge exercises the right to cause Calico to purchase the NPI, the Company would likely need to seek additional equity or other financing to fund the purchase, which financing may not be available to the Company on favorable terms or at all.
Bishop Lease
An annual lease agreement for unpatented mining claims is currently in place between Calico and the Bishop Brothers. Calico is required to make annual advance royalty payments at a rate of $33,000 per year. In a mining scenario, the agreement provides for a production royalty payment base on the price of gold of 6%.
Exploration History at Grassy Mountain
The Atlas Era
In 1986 Atlas Precious Metals (“Atlas”) acquired the Grassy Mountain property from two independent geologists, Dick Sherry and Skip Yates.
Atlas recognized soil geochemistry as an important tool for locating buried hydrothermal cells at Grassy Mountain. Most of the Atlas exploration targets were identified by claim-corner (600’ X 1500’ grid) soil sampling anomalies. Atlas conducted detailed soil and float sampling on several anomalies and identified a genetic link between gold mineralization and silicification. Between 1986 and 1991, Atlas completed 403 drill holes totalling 221,500 feet on the Grassy Mountain property. Out of the total, 193 were vertically oriented RC holes on 75 to 100 feet centers within the Grassy Mountain resource area. The remaining drill holes were located on prospects away from the main Grassy Mountain resource area. Many of these represent future exploration targets.
Atlas expanded the original claim block and collected additional geologic, mine engineering, civil engineering, and environmental baseline data to support a feasibility study, which was completed in 1990.
Declining gold prices and the perception of an unfavorable permitting environment at that time discouraged Atlas from developing the project, and the property was optioned to Newmont Exploration Ltd (“Newmont”) in 1992.
The Newmont Era
Newmont leased the Grassy Mountain property from Atlas in September 1992 for $30 million. In 1993, Newmont geologists mapped 40 square miles at a scale of 1:6000 and collected approximately 2,600 soil samples on a 400-feet by 200-feet grid to identify anomalies missed by the coarser Atlas grid. During 1993 and 1994, Newmont collected more than 400 rock chip samples and conducted several geophysical programs. A ground-based gravity survey was carried out along roadways and airborne magnetic and radiometric surveys were flown over the entire property. Ground based gradient array and ground magnetic surveys were conducted over primary target areas.
Newmont initiated an eleven-hole (11,472 feet) inclined diamond core drilling program designed to intersect and define the geometry of potential high-grade gold zones. Additionally, Newmont drilled one wedge hole off of their initial core drill hole. Three additional holes (2,912 feet) were drilled as RC pilot holes with core tails.
In late 1994, Newmont drilled 15 holes totalling approximately 15,000 feet and completed a mineral resource estimate that became the basis for an economic and mining method evaluation that was completed in 1995. Newmont determined that the project did not meet corporate objectives and returned the property to Atlas in September 1996.
The Tombstone Era
In January 1998, Atlas granted Tombstone Exploration Company Ltd (Tombstone) the option to purchase 100% of the property. Tombstone executed the option agreement and conducted an exploration program which included eight reverse circulation and two core holes totalling roughly 8,072 feet.
Prior to finalizing their agreement with Atlas, Tombstone completed an extensive review of previous work at the property and commissioned an economic study of alternative development scenarios. Relying heavily on Newmont’s gradient array surveys to define the drill targets, Lack of capital resources forced Tombstone to return the property to Atlas in May 1998.
The Seabridge/Calico Era
In February 2000, Seabridge entered an option agreement with Atlas to acquire a 100% interest in the Grassy Mountain property. Seabridge completed its acquisition of the Grassy Mountain Project in April 2003, and in April 2011, signed an option agreement granting Calico the sole and exclusive right and option to earn a 100% interest in the project.
During the 2011 exploration program, Calico mapped and sampled the Grassy Mountain deposit and completed three core and nine reverse circulation drill holes in the primary zone of mineralization on the property. Calico’s exploration strategy was to target areas where resource expansion was most probable. Historical data was thoroughly reviewed prior to drilling, and fresh sets of cross-sections and long-sections were constructed based on existing information. New interpretations of the orientation of mineralization and geology were plotted on the new sections. The new sections were then used to select areas where in-fill drilling was needed and areas where gold mineralization was open-ended and resource expansion probable. A detailed geologic model was produced based on the results of the 2011 exploration work, and subsequent supporting geophysical surveys were completed in March, 2012. On February 5, 2013, Calico exercised its option to acquire a 100% interest in the Grassy Mountain Project from Seabridge.
A mineralized material estimate was prepared by Hardrock Consulting Inc. in November, 2014. An independent preliminary economic assessment (“PEA”) was prepared in February, 2015 by MMC, which verified the mineralized material estimate and included all drill data obtained as of September 26, 2014. The PEA concluded that potential exists for the discovery of additional mineralized material at exploration target areas identified within the Grassy Mountain claim block and the current mineralized material at Grassy Mountain is sufficient to warrant continued planning and effort to explore, permit, and develop the Grassy Mountain Project. There is sufficient data to support a basic geologic model and continuing development of the project and the detailed geologic model described in the PEA, along with the results of the exploration, drilling, and geophysical surveys completed as of October 2014, are sufficient to support preparation of a Preliminary Feasibility Study.
There is no certainty that the scenarios or estimated economics in the PEA will be realized.
Paramount Era
In November, 2016, Paramount received approval from the Oregon Department of Geology and Mineral Industries (“DOGAMI”) under Division 37 guidelines to commence its 30 hole drill program at its 100%-owned Grassy Mountain Gold Project in Eastern Oregon. The drill program is a key component of its Pre-Feasibility Study (“PFS”) that the Company began in August. Drilling was commenced in late November and was completed in the Company’s fourth quarter.
Geology and Mineralization
Grassy Mountain is the largest of twelve recognized epithermal hot spring precious metal deposits of the Lake Owyhee volcanic field. The Lake Owyhee volcanic field occurs at the intersection of three tectonic provinces: the buried cratonic margin, the northern Basin and Range, and the Snake River Plain. During the mid-Miocene caldera volcanism occurred in the shallow crust throughout the region, predominately ash-flow sheets and rhyolite tuff cones. The resulting regional stratigraphic section is a thick sequence of mid-Miocene volcanic rocks and coeval-to-Pliocene age non-marine lacustrine, volcaniclastic, and fluvial sedimentary rocks.
Bedrock outcrops in the vicinity of the Grassy Mountain property are typically composed of olivine-rich basalt and siltstones, sandstones, and conglomerates of the late Miocene Grassy Mountain Formation. These rocks are locally covered with relatively thin, unconsolidated alluvial and colluvial deposits. Erosion-resistant basalts cap local topographic highs. Arkosic sandstones have been encountered at the surface and at depth, but have not been correlated across the project area, in part due to lateral discontinuity associated with sedimentary facies changes and structural offset. The basal unit to the Grassy Mountain Formation is the Kern Basin Tuff, a non-welded, pumiceous, crystal tuff which displays cross beds and local surge structures. The Kern Basin Tuff ranges in thickness from 300 feet on the south bluffs of Grassy Mountain, to 1,500 feet in a drill hole beneath the Grassy Mountain Project area. The Kern Basin Tuff is overlain by a series of fluvial, lacustrine, and tuffaceous sediments. Most of the sedimentary units in the project area are silicified and strongly indurated. These sedimentary units include granitic clast conglomerate, arkosic sandstone, fine
grained sandstone, siltstone, and tuffaceous siltstone/mudstone. The sedimentary facies of the Grassy Mountain Formation reportedly range from 300 to over 1,000 feet thick, and provide the host rocks of the Grassy Mountain mineral resource.
Several siliceous terraces are interbedded with the silicified sediments of the Grassy Mountain Formation. Terrace construction was apparently episodic and intermittently inundated by fluvial/lacustrine sediments and ash, resulting in an interbedded sequence of siltstone, tuffaceous siltstone, sandstone, conglomerate, and sinter terrace deposits. Proximal deposits are angular, inhomogeneous, clast-supported breccias of sandstone, siltstone, and sinter with indistinct clast boundaries in a sulfidic mud-textured matrix.
Grassy Mountain is a prominent, 150 feet high, silicified and iron-stained knob. Bedding is approximately horizontal at the hilltop, and dips at 10° to 25° to the north-northeast on the northern and eastern flanks of the hill. The bedding dip steepens to 30° to 40° on the west side of the hill due to drag folding in the footwall of the N20W striking Antelope Fault. The southwest slope of Grassy Mountain is covered by silicified arkose landslide debris.
Grassy Mountain is a horst block which has been raised 50 to 200 feet in a region of complex block faulting and rotation. Faulting at Grassy Mountain is dominated by post-mineral N30W to N10E striking normal faults developed during Basin and Range extension. On the northeast side of the deposit, these faults progressively down-drop mineralization beneath post-mineral cover. These offsets are suggested by interpreted offsets of a prominent white sinter bed in drill holes as well as intersections with fault gouge. The N70E striking Grassy Mountain Fault shows minor vertical offset of only 10 to 40 feet.
The surface expression of the Grassy Mountain system is indicated by weak to moderately strong silicification and iron staining with scattered chalcedonic veins/veinlets. Approximate dimensions of the Grassy Mountain deposit are 1600 feet long by 1000 feet wide by 600 feet thick. The deposit has a general N70 E elongation and a 15° bedding plane dip to the north-northeast as a result of faulting and fault block rotation. There is an envelope of lower grade mineralization at depths of 200 to 800 feet which contains a higher-grade zone of mineralization between 500 and 750 feet below the surface. The well-defined base of higher grade mineralization from about 700 to 750 feet in depth suggests a strong pressure-temperature control on gold deposition. Sinters and breccias parallel the paleosurface present at the time of mineralization. Fractures created a stockwork pattern generally found below the sinter, though some vein extensions may extend to the surface. The stockwork is surrounded by silicified sediments. Mineralized quartz-adularia stockwork and vein types include single, banded, colliform, brecciated, and calcite-pseudomorphed veins. Visible gold (0.5 mm) has been found within the stockwork portions of the boiling horizon. The gold mostly occurs as electrum along the fracture margins or within microscopic voids. A brassy color is imparted due to the high silver content. The average silver to gold ratio at Grassy Mountain is 2.5:1.
Silicification occurs both pervasively as silica flooding and as cross-cutting veins, veinlets and stockworks. The silicified envelope has plan dimensions of 3000 feet (N-S) by 2500 feet (E-W). Silicification is surrounded by barren, relatively unaltered, clay-rich (20-40% montmorillonite), tuffaceous siltstone and arkose with minor disseminated diagenetic pyrite. Many of the sinters occur as sheets instead of mounds, which suggests that they may be related to vents along faults rather than point sources. Potassic alteration occurs as adularia flooding with destruction of biotite. The adularia is extremely fine-grained and is identified microscopically or by cobaltinitrite staining. Sulfate phases identified by XRD include jarosite and alunite in several mineralized samples. Clast-supported breccias contain sub-rounded to sub-angular sand to boulder-sized clasts of silicified arkose and siltstone in a jarosite-sericite clay matrix.
The Grassy Mountain deposit has a trace element signature that includes low levels of As, Sb, and Hg.
Other Non-Material Properties
The Company owns additional mining claims in the State of Nevada that represents its non-material properties. The Mill Creek property which comprises 36 unpatented lode mining claims are located in Lander County. The Company intends to maintain the annual mining claim fees of approximately $7,000 for these claims and is actively marketing them for sale to interested third parties.
The Mill Creek claims are without known mineral reserves and there is no current exploratory work being performed.
During the fiscal year ended June 30, 2017, the Company sold 38 lode mining claims in Pershing County for $100,000 to a third party.
Item 3.