ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
Our properties
Our properties are located within the Northern and Southern Delaware Basins, a sub-basin of the Permian Basin. The Permian Basin consists of mature, legacy onshore oil and liquids-rich natural gas reservoirs that span approximately 86,000 square miles in West Texas and New Mexico. The Permian Basin is composed of five sub regions: the Delaware Basin, the Central Basin Platform, the Midland Basin, the Northwest Shelf and the Eastern Shelf. The Permian Basin is an attractive operating area due to its multiple horizontal and vertical target formations, favorable operating environment, high oil and liquids-rich natural gas content, mature infrastructure, well-developed network of oilfield service providers, long-lived reserves with consistent reservoir quality and historically high drilling success rates. According to the U.S. Energy Information Administration, the Permian Basin is the most prolific unconventional oil producing area in the U.S. and accounts for nearly half of the active drilling rigs in the U.S. as of December 31, 2017.
Oil and Natural Gas Reserves
Estimation and review of proved reserves
Proved reserve estimates as of December 31, 2017 and 2016 were prepared by Ryder Scott, L.P. ("Ryder Scott"), our independent petroleum engineer. Proved reserve estimates as of December 31, 2015 were prepared internally by management. The technical persons responsible for preparing our proved reserve estimates meet the requirements with regard to qualifications, independence, objectivity and confidentiality set forth in the Standards Pertaining to the Estimating and Auditing of Oil and Gas Reserves Information promulgated by the Society of Petroleum Engineers. Ryder Scott does not own an interest in any of our properties, nor is it employed by us on a contingent basis. A copy of our independent petroleum engineer’s proved reserve report as of December 31, 2017 is attached as an exhibit to this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
We maintain an internal staff of petroleum engineers and geoscience professionals to work closely with our independent petroleum engineers to ensure the integrity, accuracy and timeliness of the data used to calculate the proved reserves relating to our assets. Our internal technical team members meet with our independent petroleum engineer periodically during the period covered by the proved reserve report to discuss the assumptions and methods used in the proved reserve estimation process. We provide historical information to Ryder Scott for our properties, such as ownership interest, oil and natural gas production, well test data, commodity prices, subsurface geologic data and operating and development costs. Our Vice President of Engineering, is primarily responsible for overseeing the preparations of all of our reserve estimates. He is a petroleum engineer with 28 years of petroleum engineering experience, including experience with both offshore conventional and onshore unconventional field developments. The preparation of our proved reserve estimates was completed in accordance with our internal control procedures. These procedures, which are intended to ensure reliability of reserve estimations, include the following:
•
review and verification of producing formations, well targets and the development plan by our Vice President of Geology and Vice President of Engineering;
•
review and verification of historical production data, which data is based on actual production as reported by us;
•
review of well by well reserve estimates by independent reserve engineers;
•
review by our Vice President of Engineering of all of our reported proved reserves, including the review of all significant reserve changes and all new PUD additions;
•
direct reporting responsibilities by our Vice President of Engineering to our Chief Executive Officer; and
•
verification of property ownership interests by our land department.
Under the rules promulgated by the SEC, proved reserves are those quantities of oil and natural gas which, by analysis of geoscience and engineering data, can be estimated with reasonable certainty to be economically producible from a given date forward from known reservoirs and under existing economic conditions, operating methods and government regulations, prior to
the time at which contracts providing the right to operate expire (unless evidence indicates that renewal is reasonably certain, regardless of whether deterministic or probabilistic methods are used for the estimation). If deterministic methods are used, the SEC has defined reasonable certainty for proved reserves as a “high degree of confidence that the quantities will be recovered.” All of our proved reserves as of December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015 were estimated using a deterministic method. The estimation of reserves involves two distinct determinations. The first determination results in the estimation of the quantities of recoverable oil and natural gas and the second determination results in the estimation of the uncertainty associated with those estimated quantities in accordance with the definitions established under SEC rules. The process of estimating the quantities of recoverable oil and natural gas reserves relies on the use of certain generally accepted analytical procedures. These analytical procedures fall into four broad categories or methods: (i) production performance-based methods; (ii) material balance-based methods; (iii) volumetric-based methods; and (iv) analogy. These methods may be used singularly or in combination by the reserve evaluator in the process of estimating the quantities of reserves. Reserves for PDP wells were estimated using production performance methods for the vast majority of properties. Certain new producing properties with very little production history were forecast using a combination of production performance and analogy to similar production, both of which are considered to provide a reasonably high degree of accuracy. Non-producing reserve estimates for developed and undeveloped properties were forecasted using analogy methods. This method provides a reasonably high degree of accuracy for predicting proved developed non-producing and PUD locations for our properties, due to the abundance of analog data.
To estimate economically recoverable proved reserves and related future net cash flows, Ryder Scott and management considered with respect to the carve-out figures many factors and assumptions, including the use of reservoir parameters derived from geological and engineering data, which cannot be measured directly, economic criteria based on current costs, SEC pricing requirements, and forecasts of future production rates. Under SEC rules, reasonable certainty can be established using techniques that have been proven effective by actual production from projects in the same reservoir or an analogous reservoir or by other evidence using reliable technology that establishes reasonable certainty. Reliable technology is a grouping of one or more technologies (including computational methods) that have been field tested and have been demonstrated to provide reasonably certain results with consistency and repeatability in the formation being evaluated or in an analogous formation. To establish reasonable certainty with respect to our estimated proved reserves, the technologies and economic data used in the estimation of our proved reserves have been demonstrated to yield results with consistency and repeatability and include production and well test data, downhole completion information, geologic data, electrical logs, radioactivity logs, core analyses, available seismic data, historical well costs and operating expense data.
Summary of Oil, Natural Gas and NGL Reserves
At December 31, 2017, our estimated proved oil and natural gas reserves were 31,131 MBoe and determined in accordance with the rules and regulations of the SEC. Based on this report, at December 31, 2017, our proved reserves were approximately 59% oil, 21% natural gas, 20% NGLs and 43% proved developed. The calculated percentages include proved developed non-producing reserves. At December 31, 2017, all of our proved reserves were located in the Permian Basin.
The following table presents our estimated net proved oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids reserves as of the fiscal years indicated:
(1)
Estimated net proved reserves were determined using average first-day-of-the-month prices for the prior twelve months in accordance with SEC guidance. For oil, the average West Texas Intermediate posted price of $51.34 per barrel as of December 31, 2017 was adjusted for quality, transportation fees, and a regional price differential. For natural gas volumes, the average Henry Hub spot price of $2.98 per MMBtu as of December 31, 2017 was adjusted for energy content and a regional price differential. For December 31, 2017, NGLs were priced at $31.82 per barrel using Mont Belvieu pricing, as adjusted, and not as a percentage of West Texas Intermediate. All prices are held constant throughout the producing life of the properties.
(2)
Estimated net proved reserves were determined using average first-day-of-the-month prices for the prior twelve months in accordance with SEC guidance. For oil, the average West Texas Intermediate posted price of $42.75 per barrel as of December 31, 2016 was adjusted for quality, transportation fees, and a regional price differential. For natural gas volumes, the average Henry Hub spot price of $2.49 per MMBtu as of December 31, 2016 was adjusted for energy content and a regional price differential. For NGL volumes, 27.5% of the average West Texas Intermediate posted price of $42.75 per barrel, or $11.73, as of December 31, 2016 was adjusted for quality, transportation fees and a regional price differential. All prices are held constant throughout the producing life of the properties.
(3)
Estimated net proved reserves were determined using average first-day-of-the-month prices for the prior twelve months in accordance with SEC guidance. For oil, the average West Texas Intermediate posted price of $50.28 per barrel as of December 31, 2015 was adjusted for quality, transportation fees and a regional price differential. For natural gas volumes, the average Henry Hub spot price of $2.58 per MMBtu as of December 31, 2015 was adjusted for energy content and a regional price differential. For NGL volumes, 27.5% of the average West Texas Intermediate posted price of $50.28 per barrel, or $13.83, as of December 31, 2015 was adjusted for quality, transportation fees and a regional price differential. All prices are held constant throughout the producing life of the properties.
Reserve engineering is and must be recognized as a subjective process of estimating volumes of economically recoverable oil and natural gas that cannot be measured in an exact manner. The accuracy of any reserve estimate is a function of the quality of available data and of engineering and geological interpretation. As a result, the estimates of different engineers often vary. In addition, the results of drilling, testing and production may justify revisions of such estimates. Accordingly, reserve estimates often differ from the quantities of oil and natural gas that are ultimately recovered. Estimates of economically recoverable oil and
natural gas and of future net revenues are based on a number of variables and assumptions, all of which may vary from actual results, including geologic interpretation, prices and future production rates and costs. Please read “Risk Factors.”
Additional information regarding our proved reserves can be found in the notes to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and the reserve report as of December 31, 2017, which is included as an exhibit to this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Our proved reserves increased by 17,897 MBoe from 13,234 MBoe at December 31, 2016 to 31,131 MBoe at December 31, 2017. The increase was due to extensions of 15,157 MBoe, revisions of 5,137 MBoe, and acquisitions of 734 MBoe related to the purchase of additional working interests in various operated wells and leasehold interests in Loving County, Texas partially offset by production of 2,131 MBoe and 1,000 MBoe of divestitures. The increase due to extensions is primarily the result of the increased drilling in 2017 and the increase due to revisions is primarily due to increase oil and natural gas prices used to estimate proved reserves.
Proved undeveloped reserves (PUDs)
As of December 31, 2017, our proved undeveloped reserves totaled 9,622 MBbls of oil, 25,145 MMcf of natural gas and 3,857 MBbls of natural gas liquids, for a total of 17,760 MBoe. PUDs will be converted from undeveloped to developed as the applicable wells are drilled and begin production.
The following table summarizes the changes in PUD reserves for the year ended December 31, 2017 in MBoe:
As of December 31, 2017, we had 28 operated PUD locations booked of which, five locations were originally booked at December 31, 2014, seven locations were originally booked at December 31, 2015 and three locations were originally booked at December 31, 2016.
During 2017, we spent a total of $31.8 million related to the development of proved undeveloped reserves, which resulted in the conversion of 2,569 MMBoe of proved undeveloped reserves to proved developed reserves. Our development plan resulted in four PUDs drilled in 2017. As of December 31, 2017, we had 5 DUCs included in PUDs which we incurred approximately $13.5 million drilling. Plans for 2018 include drilling 11 PUD targets. We believe that our progress to date in 2017 demonstrates our ability to execute on our development plan. Our development plan sets forth the remaining PUD locations to be brought to proved producing status within five years of initial booking. The future development of our proved undeveloped reserves is dependent on future commodity prices, costs and economic assumptions that align with our internal forecast as well as access to liquidity sources.
Oil and Natural Gas Production Prices and Production Costs
The prices that we receive for the oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids we produce is largely a function of market supply and demand. Demand is impacted by general economic conditions, weather and other seasonal conditions, including hurricanes and tropical storms. Over or under supply of oil or natural gas can result in substantial price volatility. Historically, commodity prices have been volatile, and we expect that volatility to continue in the future. A substantial or extended decline in oil, natural gas, and NGL prices or poor drilling results could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, cash flows, quantities of oil, natural gas, and NGL reserves that may be economically produced and our ability to access capital markets. Please see “Risk Factors - Risks Related to Our Operations - Oil, natural gas and NGL prices are volatile. A reduction or sustained decline in oil, natural gas and NGL prices could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to meet our capital expenditure obligations and financial commitments.”
The following table sets forth information regarding our net production of oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids, and certain price and cost information for each of the periods indicated:
(1)
Average prices shown in the table reflect prices both before and after the effects of commodity hedging settlements. Our calculation of such effects includes both gains and losses on cash settlements for commodity derivative transactions and premiums paid or received on options that settled during the period.
(2)
May not sum or recalculate due to rounding.
Drilling activity and results
The following table summarizes our drilling activity for the last three years.
(1)
Although a well may be classified as productive upon completion, future changes in oil and natural gas prices, operating costs and production may result in the well becoming uneconomical, particularly exploratory wells for which there is no production history.
Productive wells
The following table sets forth the number of productive oil and natural gas wells on our properties at December 31, 2017. This table does not include wells in which we own a royalty interest only.
As of December 31, 2017, we had an average working interest of 88% in 55 gross (48 net) productive wells, of which 43 gross (39 net) were horizontal wells in the Northern Delaware Basin acreage area and of which 12 gross (9 net) were vertical wells in the Southern Delaware Basin acreage area. Productive wells consist of producing wells and wells capable of production, including oil wells awaiting connection to production facilities. Gross wells are the total number of producing wells in which we have an interest and net wells are the sum of our fractional working interests owned in gross wells.
Our acreage
The following table sets forth information as of December 31, 2017 relating to our Delaware Basin leasehold acreage. Developed acreage consists of acres spaced or assigned to productive wells and does not include undrilled acreage held by production under the terms of the lease. Undeveloped acreage is defined as acres on which wells have not been drilled or completed to a point that would permit the production of commercial quantities of oil or natural gas, regardless of whether such acreage contains proved reserves.
We are the operator of approximately 95% of this acreage. In addition, we own mineral interests underlying approximately 14,762 gross (11,141 net) of these acres, with an average royalty interest of 78%. Through December 31, 2017, we have drilled 26 gross (26 net) wells in our Northern Delaware Basin leasehold acreage. As of December 31, 2017, we had 2 operated rigs running, 2 operated wells drilling and an inventory of 5 operated wells awaiting completion. We expect to continue to concentrate drilling activities within our core acreage in 2018, primarily targeting the Bone Spring and Wolfcamp formations.
Undeveloped acreage expirations
Many of the leases comprising the undeveloped acreage set forth in the table above will expire at the end of their respective primary terms unless production from the leasehold acreage has been established prior to such date, in which event the lease will remain in effect until the cessation of production. The following table sets forth the gross and net undeveloped acreage, as of December 31, 2017, that will expire over the next five years unless production is established within the spacing units covering the acreage or the lease is renewed or extended under continuous drilling provisions prior to the primary term expiration dates.
Title to properties
We believe that we have satisfactory title to our producing properties in accordance with generally accepted industry standards. As is customary in the oil and natural gas industry, we initially conduct only a cursory review of the title to our properties for an acquisition of leasehold acreage. We perform a thorough title examination and curative work with respect to significant defects prior to either an acquisition of producing properties or prior to commencement of drilling operations on those properties. To the extent title opinions or other investigations reflect title defects on those properties, we are typically responsible for curing any title defects at our expense. We generally will not commence drilling operations on a property until we have cured any material title defects on such property. We have obtained title opinions on substantially all of our producing properties and believe that we have satisfactory title to our producing properties in accordance with standards generally accepted in the oil and natural gas industry.
Prior to completing an acquisition of producing oil and natural gas leases, we perform title reviews on the most significant leases and, depending on the materiality of properties, we may obtain a title opinion, obtain an updated title review or opinion or review previously obtained title opinions. Our oil and natural gas properties are subject to customary royalty and other interests, liens for current taxes and other burdens, which we believe do not materially interfere with the use of or affect our carrying value of the properties.
We believe that we have satisfactory title to all our material assets. Although title to these properties is in some cases subject to encumbrances, such as customary interests generally retained in connection with the acquisition of real property, customary royalty interests and contract terms and restrictions, liens under operating agreements, liens related to environmental liabilities associated with historical operations, liens for current taxes and other burdens, easements, restrictions and minor encumbrances customary in the oil and natural gas industry, we believe that none of these liens, restrictions, easements, burdens and encumbrances will materially detract from the value of these properties or from our interest in these properties or materially interfere with our use of these properties in the operation of our business. In addition, we believe that we have obtained sufficient rights-of-way grants and permits from public authorities and private parties for us to operate our business in all material respects.
ITEM 3.