ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
Our properties
Our properties are located within the Northern and Southern Delaware Basins, sub-basins of the Permian Basin. The Permian Basin consists of mature, legacy onshore oil and liquids-rich natural gas reservoirs that span approximately 86,000 square miles in West Texas and New Mexico. The Permian Basin is composed of five sub regions: the Delaware Basin, the Central Basin Platform, the Midland Basin, the Northwest Shelf and the Eastern Shelf. The Permian Basin is an attractive operating area due to its multiple horizontal and vertical target formations, favorable operating environment, high oil and liquids-rich natural gas content, mature infrastructure, well-developed network of oilfield service providers, long-lived reserves with consistent reservoir quality and historically high drilling success rates.
Oil and Natural Gas Reserves
Estimation and review of proved reserves
Proved reserve estimates as of December 31, 2018 were prepared by Netherland, Sewell & Associates, Inc. (“NSAI”) and proved reserve estimates as of December 31, 2017 and 2016 were prepared by Ryder Scott, L.P. (“Ryder Scott”), our independent petroleum engineers. NSAI and Ryder Scott do not own an interest in any of our properties, nor are they employed by us on a contingent basis. A copy of our independent petroleum engineer’s proved reserve report as of December 31, 2018 is attached as an exhibit to this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
NSAI is a worldwide leader of petroleum property analysis for industry and financial organizations and government agencies. NSAI was founded in 1961 and performs consulting petroleum engineering services under Texas Board of Professional Engineers Registration No.. Within NSAI, the technical persons primarily responsible for preparing the estimates set forth in the NSAI reserves report incorporated herein are Richard B. Talley and Mike K. Norton. Mr. Talley, a Licensed Professional Engineer in the State of Texas (No. 102425), has been practicing consulting petroleum engineering at NSAI since 2004 and has over 5 years of prior industry experience. He graduated from the University of Oklahoma in 1998 with a Bachelor of Science Degree in Mechanical Engineering and from Tulane University in 2001 with a Master of Business Administration Degree. Mr. Norton, a Licensed Professional Geoscientist in the State of Texas, Geology (No. 441), has been practicing consulting petroleum geoscience at NSAI since 1989 and has over 10 years of prior industry experience. He graduated from Texas A&M University in 1978 with a Bachelor of Science Degree in Geology. Ryder Scott is an independent petroleum engineering consulting firm that has been providing petroleum consulting services throughout the world since 1937. Within Ryder Scott, the technical person primarily responsible for preparing the estimates set forth in the Ryder Scott reserves report is Val Rick Robinson, a Licensed Professional Engineer in the State of Texas. He graduated from Brigham Young University in 2003 with a Bachelor of Science Degree in Chemical Engineering. All technical principals meet or exceed the education, training, and experience requirements set forth in the Standards Pertaining to the Estimating and Auditing of Oil and Gas Reserves Information promulgated by the Society of Petroleum Engineers; both are proficient in judiciously applying industry standard practices to engineering and geoscience evaluations as well as applying SEC and other industry reserves definitions and guidelines.
We maintain an internal staff of petroleum engineers and geoscience professionals to work closely with our independent petroleum engineers to ensure the integrity, accuracy and timeliness of the data used to calculate the proved reserves relating to our assets. Our internal technical team members meet with our independent petroleum engineers periodically to discuss the assumptions and methods used in the proved reserve estimation process. We provide historical information to our independent petroleum engineers for our properties, such as ownership interest, oil and natural gas production, well test data, commodity prices, subsurface geologic data and operating and development costs. Our Vice President of Geology and our Vice President of Operations primarily responsible for overseeing the preparations of our reserve estimates. Our Vice President of Geology holds a Bachelor of Arts in Geophysical Science from The University of Chicago and a Master of Business Administration from the Else School of Management, Millsaps College and has over 38 years of geology, operations and management experience in the oil and gas industry, having held numerous executive positions for public and private companies. Our Vice President of Operations holds a
Bachelor of Science and Master of Science in Engineering from the University of Texas and has over 23 years of drilling and operational engineering expertise at large and private companies.
The preparation of our proved reserve estimates was completed in accordance with our internal control procedures. These procedures, which are intended to ensure reliability of reserve estimations, include the following:
•
review and verification of producing formations, well targets and the development plan by our Vice President of Geology and Vice President of Operations;
•
review and verification of historical production data, which data is based on actual production as reported by us;
•
review of well by well reserve estimates by independent reserve engineers;
•
review by our Vice President of Geology and our Vice President of Operations of all of our reported proved reserves, including the review of all significant reserve changes and all new PUD additions;
•
direct reporting responsibilities by our Vice President of Geology and our Vice President of Operations to our Chief Executive Officer; and
•
verification of property ownership interests by our land department.
Under the rules promulgated by the SEC, proved reserves are those quantities of oil and natural gas which, by analysis of geoscience and engineering data, can be estimated with reasonable certainty to be economically producible from a given date forward from known reservoirs and under existing economic conditions, operating methods and government regulations, prior to the time at which contracts providing the right to operate expire (unless evidence indicates that renewal is reasonably certain, regardless of whether deterministic or probabilistic methods are used for the estimation). If deterministic methods are used, the SEC has defined reasonable certainty for proved reserves as a “high degree of confidence that the quantities will be recovered.” All of our proved reserves as of December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 were estimated using a deterministic method. The estimation of reserves involves two distinct determinations. The first determination results in the estimation of the quantities of recoverable oil and natural gas and the second determination results in the estimation of the uncertainty associated with those estimated quantities in accordance with the definitions established under SEC rules. The process of estimating the quantities of recoverable oil and natural gas reserves relies on the use of certain generally accepted analytical procedures. These analytical procedures fall into four broad categories or methods: (i) production performance-based methods; (ii) material balance-based methods; (iii) volumetric-based methods; and (iv) analogy. These methods may be used singularly or in combination by the reserve evaluator in the process of estimating the quantities of reserves. Reserves for proved developed producing wells were estimated using production performance methods for the vast majority of properties. Certain new producing properties with very little production history were forecast using a combination of production performance and analogy to similar production, both of which are considered to provide a reasonably high degree of accuracy. Non-producing reserve estimates for developed and undeveloped properties were forecasted using analogy methods. This method provides a reasonably high degree of accuracy for predicting proved developed non-producing and PUD locations for our properties, due to the abundance of analog data.
To estimate economically recoverable proved reserves and related future net cash flows with respect to the carve-out figures for the December 31, 2016 reserves, Ryder Scott and management considered many factors and assumptions, including the use of reservoir parameters derived from geological and engineering data, which cannot be measured directly, economic criteria based on current costs, SEC pricing requirements and forecasts of future production rates. Under SEC rules, reasonable certainty can be established using techniques that have been proven effective by actual production from projects in the same reservoir or an analogous reservoir or by other evidence using reliable technology that establishes reasonable certainty. Reliable technology is a grouping of one or more technologies (including computational methods) that have been field tested and have been demonstrated to provide reasonably certain results with consistency and repeatability in the formation being evaluated or in an analogous formation. To establish reasonable certainty with respect to our estimated proved reserves, the technologies and economic data used in the estimation of our proved reserves have been demonstrated to yield results with consistency and repeatability and include production and well test data, downhole completion information, geologic data, electrical logs, radioactivity logs, core analyses, available seismic data, historical well costs and operating expense data.
Summary of oil, natural gas and NGL reserves
At December 31, 2018, our estimated proved oil and natural gas reserves were 48,364 MBoe and determined in accordance with the rules and regulations of the SEC. Based on this report, at December 31, 2018, our proved reserves were approximately 69% oil, 15% natural gas, 16% NGLs and 56% proved developed. The calculated percentages include proved developed non-producing reserves. At December 31, 2018, all of our proved reserves were located in the Permian Basin.
The following table presents our estimated net proved oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids reserves as of the fiscal years indicated:
(1)
Estimated net proved reserves were determined using average first-day-of-the-month prices for the prior twelve months in accordance with SEC guidance. For oil, the average West Texas Intermediate posted price of $65.56 per barrel as of December 31, 2018 was adjusted for quality, transportation fees and a regional price differential. For natural gas volumes, the average Henry Hub spot price of $3.10 per MMBtu as of December 31, 2018 was adjusted for energy content and a regional price differential. For NGL volumes, NGL prices range from 34% to 46%, depending on the property, of the average West Texas Intermediate posted price of $65.56 per barrel. The average adjusted NGL price weighted by production was $23.02 per barrel as of December 31, 2018. All prices are held constant throughout the producing life of the properties.
(2)
Estimated net proved reserves were determined using average first-day-of-the-month prices for the prior twelve months in accordance with SEC guidance. For oil, the average West Texas Intermediate posted price of $51.34 per barrel as of December 31, 2017 was adjusted for quality, transportation fees and a regional price differential. For natural gas volumes, the average Henry Hub spot price of $2.98 per MMBtu as of December 31, 2017 was adjusted for energy content and a regional price differential. For December 31, 2017, NGLs were priced at $31.82 per barrel using Mont Belvieu pricing, as adjusted, and not as a percentage of West Texas Intermediate. All prices are held constant throughout the producing life of the properties.
(3)
Estimated net proved reserves were determined using average first-day-of-the-month prices for the prior twelve months in accordance with SEC guidance. For oil, the average West Texas Intermediate posted price of $42.75 per barrel as of December 31, 2016 was adjusted for quality, transportation fees and a regional price differential. For natural gas volumes, the average Henry Hub spot price of $2.49 per MMBtu as of December 31, 2016 was adjusted for energy content and a regional price differential. For NGL volumes, 27.5% of the average West Texas Intermediate posted price of $42.75 per barrel, or $11.73, as of December 31, 2016 was adjusted for quality, transportation fees and a regional price differential. All prices are held constant throughout the producing life of the properties.
Reserve engineering is and must be recognized as a subjective process of estimating volumes of economically recoverable oil and natural gas that cannot be measured in an exact manner. The accuracy of any reserve estimate is a function of the quality of available data and of engineering and geological interpretation. As a result, the estimates of different engineers often vary. In addition, the results of drilling, testing and production may justify revisions of such estimates. Accordingly, reserve estimates often differ from the quantities of oil and natural gas that are ultimately recovered. Estimates of economically recoverable oil and natural gas and of future net revenues are based on a number of variables and assumptions, all of which may vary from actual results, including geologic interpretation, prices and future production rates and costs. Please read “Risk Factors.”
Additional information regarding our proved reserves can be found in the notes to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and the reserve report as of December 31, 2018, which is included as an exhibit to this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Our proved reserves increased by 17,233 MBoe from 31,131 MBoe at December 31, 2017 to 48,364 MBoe at December 31, 2018. The increase was due to extensions of 25,427 MBoe partially offset by production of 6,693 MBoe and negative revisions of 1,501 MBoe. The increase due to extensions is primarily the result of the increased drilling in the Wolfcamp and Bone Spring formations in the Northern Delaware Basin and the negative revision is primarily due to PUD demotions partially offset by improved economics used in the reserve report.
Proved undeveloped reserves (PUDs)
As of December 31, 2018, our proved undeveloped reserves totaled 14,694 MBbls of oil, 18,388 MMcf of natural gas and 3,298 MBbls of natural gas liquids, for a total of 21,057 MBoe. PUDs will be converted from undeveloped to developed as the applicable wells are drilled and begin production.
The following table summarizes the changes in PUD reserves for the year ended December 31, 2018 in MBoe:
As of December 31, 2018, we had 44 operated PUD locations booked of which, 3 locations were originally booked at December 31, 2015, 2 location was originally booked at December 31, 2016, 4 locations were originally booked at December 31, 2017 and 35 locations were booked at December 31, 2018. The negative PUD revisions were primarily due to 8 PUD locations being demoted in 2018 due to a change in development plan.
During 2018, we spent a total of $63.9 million related to the development of PUDs, which resulted in the conversion of 6,757 MMBoe of PUDs to proved developed reserves. Our development plan resulted in 10 PUDs drilled in 2018. As of December 31, 2018, we had 8 DUCs included in PUDs which we incurred approximately $27.2 million developing. Plans for 2019 include drilling 22 PUD targets. We believe that our progress in 2018 demonstrates our ability to execute on our development plan. Our development plan sets forth the remaining PUD locations to be brought to proved producing status within five years of initial booking. The future development of our proved undeveloped reserves is dependent on future commodity prices, costs and economic assumptions that align with our internal forecast as well as access to liquidity sources.
Oil and Natural Gas Production Prices and Production Costs
The prices that we receive for the oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids we produce is largely a function of market supply and demand. Demand is impacted by general economic conditions, weather and other seasonal conditions, including hurricanes and tropical storms. Over or under supply of oil or natural gas can result in substantial price volatility. Historically, commodity prices have been volatile, and we expect that volatility to continue in the future. A substantial or extended decline in oil, natural gas and NGL prices or poor drilling results could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, cash flows, quantities of oil, natural gas and NGL reserves that may be economically produced and our ability to access capital markets. Please see “Risk Factors - Risks Related to Our Operations - Oil, natural gas and NGL prices are volatile. A reduction or sustained decline in oil, natural gas and NGL prices could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to meet our capital expenditure obligations and financial commitments.”
The following table sets forth information regarding our net production of oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids, and certain price and cost information for each of the periods indicated:
(1)
Average prices shown in the table reflect prices both before and after the effects of commodity hedging settlements. Our calculation of such effects includes both gains and losses on cash settlements for commodity derivative transactions and premiums paid or received on options that settled during the period.
Drilling activity and results
The following table summarizes our drilling activity for the last three years.
(1)
Although a well may be classified as productive upon completion, future changes in oil and natural gas prices, operating costs and production may result in the well becoming uneconomical, particularly exploratory wells for which there is no production history.
Productive wells
The following table sets forth the number of productive oil and natural gas wells on our properties at December 31, 2018. This table does not include wells in which we own a royalty interest only.
As of December 31, 2018, we had an average working interest of 92.0% in our productive wells. Productive wells consist of producing wells and wells capable of production, including oil wells awaiting connection to production facilities. Gross wells are the total number of producing wells in which we have an interest and net wells are the sum of our fractional working interests owned in gross wells.
Our acreage
The following table sets forth information as of December 31, 2018 relating to our Delaware Basin leasehold acreage.
We are the operator of approximately 93.1% of our net acreage. In addition, we own mineral interests underlying approximately 15,884 gross (11,583 net) of these acres, with an average royalty interest of 68.6% in our net acres. In 2018, we drilled 25 gross (25 net) wells in our Northern Delaware Basin leasehold acreage and 8 gross (8 net) wells in our Southern Delaware Basin leasehold acreage. As of December 31, 2018, we had 2 operated rigs running, 3 operated wells drilling and an inventory of 8 operated wells awaiting completion. We expect to continue to concentrate drilling activities within our core acreage in 2019, primarily targeting the Bone Spring and Wolfcamp formations.
Undeveloped acreage expirations
Many of the leases comprising the undeveloped acreage set forth in the table above will expire at the end of their respective primary terms unless production from the leasehold acreage has been established prior to such date, in which event the lease will remain in effect until the cessation of production. The following table sets forth the gross and net undeveloped acreage, as of December 31, 2018, that will expire over the next five years unless production is established within the spacing units covering the acreage or the lease is renewed or extended under continuous drilling provisions prior to the primary term expiration dates. Subsequent to December 31, 2018, we established production to hold the acreage that was scheduled to expire in 2019.
Title to properties
We believe that we have satisfactory title to our producing properties in accordance with generally accepted industry standards. As is customary in the oil and natural gas industry, we initially conduct only a cursory review of the title to our properties for an acquisition of leasehold acreage. We perform a thorough title examination and curative work with respect to significant defects either prior to an acquisition of producing properties or prior to commencement of drilling operations on those properties. To the extent title opinions or other investigations reflect title defects on those properties, we are typically responsible for curing any title defects at our expense. We generally will not commence drilling operations on a property until we have cured any material title defects on such property. We have obtained title opinions on substantially all of our producing properties and believe that we have satisfactory title to our producing properties in accordance with standards generally accepted in the oil and natural gas industry.
Prior to completing an acquisition of producing oil and natural gas leases, we perform title reviews on the most significant leases and, depending on the materiality of properties, we may obtain a title opinion, obtain an updated title review or opinion or review previously obtained title opinions. Our oil and natural gas properties are subject to customary royalty and other interests, liens for current taxes and other burdens, which we believe do not materially interfere with the use of or affect our carrying value of the properties.
We believe that we have satisfactory title to all our material assets. Although title to these properties is in some cases subject to encumbrances, such as customary interests generally retained in connection with the acquisition of real property, customary royalty interests and contract terms and restrictions, liens under operating agreements, liens related to environmental liabilities associated with historical operations, liens for current taxes and other burdens, easements, restrictions and minor encumbrances customary in the oil and natural gas industry, we believe that none of these liens, restrictions, easements, burdens and encumbrances will materially detract from the value of these properties or from our interest in these properties or materially interfere with our use of these properties in the operation of our business. In addition, we believe that we have obtained sufficient rights-of-way grants and permits from public authorities and private parties for us to operate our business in all material respects.
ITEM 3.